 IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XLARRY DEAN DUSENBERY, Petitioner ::v. : No. -UNITED STATES. :- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XCourtroom Constitution Avenue, N.W.Washington, D.C.Monday, October , The above-entitled matter came on for oralargument before the Supreme Court of the United States at: a.m.APPEARANCES:ALLISON M. ZIEVE, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf of thePetitioner.JEFFREY P. MINEAR, ESQ., Assistant Solicitor General,Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on behalfof the Respondent. C O N T E N T SORAL ARGUMENT OFALLISON M. ZIEVE, ESQ.On behalf of the PetitionerJEFFREY P. MINEAR, ESQ.On behalf of the RespondentREBUTTAL ARGUMENT OFALLISON M. ZIEVE, ESQ.On behalf of the PetitionerPAGE P R O C E E D I N G S(: a.m.)CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: We'll hear argumentnow in No. -, Larry Dean Dusenbery v. the UnitedStates. the Court:Mr. Zieve -- Ms. Zieve. Pardon me.ORAL ARGUMENT OF ALLISON M. ZIEVEON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERMS. ZIEVE: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it pleaseThe issue in this case is whether the proceduresused to serve notice of forfeiture of petitioner'sproperty satisfied due process. The Federal Government forfeited Mr. Dusenbery's$, in after mailing a notice to him at theFederal prison where he was incarcerated. It is notdisputed that he did not get the notice. The -- the Government argues that its procedures satisfied due process whether or not the noticewas received. However, in light of the circumstancespresented here, including the Government's control overthe prisoner's location and knowledge of the prisoner'slocation at all times and its control over prisonprocedures, due process requires the Government to useprocedures that offer assurances of delivery to the inmate addressee and not just to prison personnel. Suchprocedures --QUESTION: Well, you take the position that it'snot sufficient that there be staff at the prison whodeliver mail to the inmates?MS. ZIEVE: That, in and of itself, is notsufficient. The -- the procedures need --QUESTION: A procedure whereby a prison employeedelivers certified mail to prisoners is inadequate inyour --MS. ZIEVE: That -- that, in and of itself, isinadequate as -- although --QUESTION: Is in adequate? MS. ZIEVE: Is inadequate, although thoseprocedures --QUESTION: How can that be under any of our caselaw, that that would be in adequate per se?MS. ZIEVE: Well, the -- under this Court's caselaw, what's required when the notice is served isdetermined by a consideration of a balance of factors inlight of the circumstances. And that --QUESTION: Well, we've never required actualnotice in any case, have we? MS. ZIEVE: No, although there is somesuggestion of that in -- in a couple cases, for instance, Phillips Petroleum. But in -- in the cases discussed inthe briefs, there is not a requirement of actual notice,but at the same time, the Court assumes that the mailednotice or the form of notice will be received, and theCourt hasn't considered a case where it was uncontestedthat individual -- an individual was entitled to noticeand yet the notice wasn't received. QUESTION: Well, but that's going to happensometimes with any sort of notice except the requirementof actual receipt by the individual, and we've never feltthat destroyed the validity of the notice.MS. ZIEVE: That's true, Your Honor, but in thecircumstances presented here, consideration of the balanceof factors leads to a requirement the procedures thatwould satisfy those factors would also lead to actualnotice. For instance, today the Government usesprocedures under which, after the mail is received by theprison, there's not just some vague distribution processat the prison, but the mail is signed for. In the mailroom, there's a log book kept, and when it leaves the mailroom a log book is kept that is ultimately signed for bythe inmate. And this chain of receipts helps to ensurethat there's extra care and attention paid with thedelivery of the notice.QUESTION: Would you be satisfied with that if that had been the case here? MS. ZIEVE: Yes. If those procedures had beenfollowed.QUESTION: Even -- even though there was -- Iwas going to say even though there was no receiptsignature, but I guess under the procedures now, the --the prisoner would have signed a log. Is that right?MS. ZIEVE: Yes, he would have signed a log. And if he had a challenge and he has a signature, he'sgoing to lose, and if there is no signature -- excuse me.QUESTION: The procedure that was in place forcertain kinds of mail that was labeled special mail -- ifthat had been -- if that had applied to notices in thiscategory -- special mail, as I understand it, could beopened only in the presence of the prisoner?MS. ZIEVE: That's correct. QUESTION: And if that had applied, that oldrule had applied to this category of mail, you would notobject to that, would you? MS. ZIEVE: Well, the special mail opened onlyin front of the prisoner happens after it's delivered tothe prisoner. I think it's helpful that the FBI and theDEA, in recent years -- the Government writes in itsbrief, in recent years, have considered forfeiture noticesand labeled those as special mail, but the procedure still needs to be adequate to get to that point where you'restanding in front of the prisoner opening the mail. QUESTION: Ms. Zieve, I'm -- I'm not sure what-- what is the general principle of which you assert therule that you urge upon us in this case is -- is just anexemplar. Is the general principle that when theGovernment is in charge of the delivery system, there mustbe actual notice evidenced by a signature of whoever it'sdelivered to? MS. ZIEVE: Your Honor, that's one importantfactor, but the case here is even easier because there are-- there are numerous --QUESTION: You're not urging that when the --that the distinctive factor is that the Government is incharge of the delivery system because that would have beenthe case in the old post office when -- when the postoffice was actually part of the Federal Government. So,that's not the principle. Right? MS. ZIEVE: That's not the only factor. Here wehave not --QUESTION: What -- what is the principle? Whenthe Government is in charge of the residence? Right? So,we would need a similar rule for all members of the armedforces. MS. ZIEVE: There are several key factors here, and I don't think you can separate out one circumstancefrom the rest. The inmate --QUESTION: Well, you said the first one isn'tit. Right? I don't understand. If neither one alone isenough, I don't know why all in combination turn out to beenough. MS. ZIEVE: Because that's the circumstances. There's a body of circumstances presented here. Theinmate's location is not just easily ascertainable by theGovernment, but determined by the Government. Theprocedures used for --QUESTION: Well, that would apply -- that wouldapply to all members of the armed forces. MS. ZIEVE: The procedures used for delivery arealso determined by the Government, and --QUESTION: That would also apply to the armedforces. MS. ZIEVE: And the Government is in an adverseposition, which I think requires additional cross checksin the system to ensure that care is taken because theGovernment doesn't have incentive to identify and rectifyinefficiencies on its own. QUESTION: You really think that that'srealistic here? You would not urge us to apply this rulein a civil action where your client was being served a paper by -- by someone who is not the Government. MS. ZIEVE: Well, if the -- if the serving partywere not the Government, then the person doing the servicewould not be the person who was also in control of thedelivery procedures. QUESTION: I understand that. MS. ZIEVE: So --QUESTION: So, you have not urged the rule inthat case, only when the Government is -- is the opposingparty. MS. ZIEVE: Well, I'm not trying to be evasive,but it's hard to answer without knowing all thecircumstances there. For instance, what would be the --QUESTION: All the other circumstances are justlike this one except that the complaint was not on behalfof the Government. It was behalf on a private individual.MS. ZIEVE: Well, then the private individualwouldn't have control over the procedures. It might bethat mailing wasn't -- wasn't adequate in thatcircumstance. It might have to do with the value of theproperty.QUESTION: You can answer this yes or no. Doyou assert that your rule would apply in that situation ornot? All of the circumstances are the same. The onlydifference is the complaint was not filed by the Government, but by a private party.QUESTION: Say it was for an ordinary debt, thatthe prisoner owed money and the creditor brought suit.MS. ZIEVE: It might not apply in thatcircumstance, but whether or not it does, this is aneasier case. QUESTION: Let -- let me ask you. I -- I takeit you begin from the premise that mailed notice isadequate for a civil suit, or do you? I'm going to askthe Government the same thing. I -- are we supposed towrite an opinion that -- that says that mailed notice isadequate in any civil suit? MS. ZIEVE: No. The -- in fact, under rule (d)mailed notice is not adequate under civil suit -- for anycivil suit. But I don't think --QUESTION: From a constitutional -- I know what(e) says, but from a constitutional standpoint, is mailednotice adequate in any civil suit? MS. ZIEVE: Well, I think it's probably notadequate in any civil suit.QUESTION: All right. What is -- what is itabout this that makes mailed notice adequate whereasapparently there's another class of cases in whichpersonal service is required? MS. ZIEVE: Well, this case -- QUESTION: You -- you begin I -- I think withthe assumption that mailed notice would be adequate, andthe question is, are these mailing procedures adequate inthis case? MS. ZIEVE: Well, no, Your Honor --QUESTION: But I'm -- I don't want to have youtake a position you don't take. But it -- it does seem tome that that is the baseline assumption from where youbegin the argument. Am I correct about that? MS. ZIEVE: Not exactly, Your Honor. This caseis not really a mailed notice case because the proceduresthat are inadequate are the procedures that happened afterthe mailing. The mailing is the first step in thedelivery chain, and the question here is the adequacy ofthe procedures after that. QUESTION: But I'm asking why is mail adequateat all? You seem to assume that, and that's fine. We candecide the case on that basis. But you make theassumption that if the mail were received, the mailednotice would be adequate. MS. ZIEVE: If the mail is received by theinmate? QUESTION: Yes. And I want to know why that is. I'm going to ask the Government. If we have to write thiscase, it would seem to me that at least an argument could be made that personal service is required --MS. ZIEVE: Well --QUESTION: -- in any civil case. And then weask if this is a forfeiture or there's some old hangoverfrom the in rem idea that is still somehow affecting useven though we don't talk about in rem anymore and soforth. But I want to know what your -- your beginningprinciple is for the due process, elementary, minimumstandards of service.MS. ZIEVE: The mailed notice is any form ofdelivery -- any form of notice is adequate as to thatindividual if it's received. The mailed notice isadequate when it's received, and in this case, theGovernment's procedures used certified mail so that youknow that the mail was received. If the Government hadmailed the certified mail to the proper prison and it hadnot been received, the certified mail slip never cameback, then I don't think the mailed service would havebeen adequate. QUESTION: Have any of our cases ever requiredcertified mail? MS. ZIEVE: Well, the first case where the Courtconsiders whether mailed notices is constitutional in Hessv. Pawloski, the mail at issue was certified mail. Subsequent to that, the Court hasn't made a distinctionbetween the form of mail. The Court also hasn't considered the case wheremail was sent but not received. And the Court's cases inMennonite Board and Tulsa Professional CollectionServices, in the cases discussed in the briefs, thequestion was whether an individual was entitled to noticein addition to publication or posting, not whether -- theCourt had no occasion to consider what would happen if thenotice was mailed but never got there.QUESTION: It seems to me one of thedifficulties I find with your position, Ms. Zieve, is thatthis inquiry can come up, you know, months and maybe yearsafter the actual notice took place or didn't take place. And it's one thing to say we have a -- you followed asystem and that system affords due process, but to haveevery case turn on perhaps an argument between the personwho's seeking to set aside the service -- I never receivedit -- and someone else saying, yes, you did receive it, Ithink is rather unsatisfactory. MS. ZIEVE: Well, that's why the proceduresshould require proof of verification which theGovernment's procedures do today. If Mr. Dusenbery wasserved with a forfeiture notice today, he would berequired to sign for it and there would be no question later about whether or not he received it. QUESTION: Was he not --QUESTION: Your --QUESTION: The question I'd have is we all seemto agree now that the question -- the Government has toprovide reasonable procedures. Reasonable meansreasonably calculated to give actual notice.MS. ZIEVE: Under the circumstances. QUESTION: Well, don't say -- there's no suchthing. There's no such thing. Under the circumstancesdoesn't add anything I don't think. You say is itreasonably calculated to give actual notice. I haven'tfigured out your qualification, how that would work. But why wasn't this precisely? Precisely what'swrong with these procedures in your opinion? MS. ZIEVE: The --QUESTION: Why are they not calculated to giveactual notice reasonably?MS. ZIEVE: The procedures did not provideassurances of delivery because what happened after themail reached the mail room is -- was vague andundocumented. And as the Government acknowledged --QUESTION: I always thought the procedure -- Ithought the -- what -- what -- tell me precisely. I thinkthe procedure is, A, mailed to a prison. B, it comes to a prison, and a person who works for the prison signs forit. Then the procedure required what? C. What was itrequired? And then what should it have required? MS. ZIEVE: The procedure was that the mail roomemployee picked up the mail and signed the certified mailreceipt at the post office, brought it back to the prison,where he entered it in a log book. A prison employeetestified that in the procedure then would have beenthat a -- a housing unit staff would have signed when hetook the mail -- the certified mail out of the mail room.QUESTION: Yes. MS. ZIEVE: He also testified that he didn'tknow what the procedure was after that.QUESTION: All right. I guess after that -- areasonable person would think the procedure after that isyou give it to the person it's addressed to. Now, is -- Imean that would be normal in life. Is there any testimonythat that wasn't the procedure? No. MS. ZIEVE: No. There was no testimony aboutthat.QUESTION: Okay. Now, we've described theprocedure, and now you tell me what, in your opinion, iswrong with that procedure. MS. ZIEVE: The procedure doesn't requireverification of delivery and that -- QUESTION: Okay. So, in your opinion, it isunreasonable not to have an additional step that theprisoner signs for it.MS. ZIEVE: Yes, and the reason is this. Because the documentation -- the improved documentationimproves delivery. The -- the Department of Justice Boardof Prisons memorandum that the Solicitor General lodgedwith the Court both in and -- it ties improveddocumentation to improved delivery.QUESTION: Then -- then whenever there's arequirement or -- a requirement -- procedure for serviceby mail, it should be certified mail so the person signsfor it in every case. MS. ZIEVE: In --QUESTION: Ms. Zieve, you couldn't say everycase because in Mullane regular mail was adequate in thatunder the circumstances, which was heavily emphasized byJustice Jackson, those words, under the circumstances. MS. ZIEVE: In Mullane and in some cases wherethere's a class of interested parties where everyone hasthis same interest, it might not be necessary for allinterested parties to receive the notice. As the Courtrecognized in Mullane, because there were manybeneficiaries of a different trusts and they all had aidentical interests -- QUESTION: All right. Then I'll -- then I'llamend my question. In a case where there is only a singledefendant and service is permitted by mail, it must be bycertified mail.MS. ZIEVE: Well, that would likely bereasonable since the burden of doing so is so small andthe increased -- the decreased risk of it not reaching theaddressee would be --QUESTION: You don't mean that it mightreasonable. You mean it isn't reasonable not to do it.That's your argument. MS. ZIEVE: Right. QUESTION: It isn't reasonable not to do it. And I guess a person who thought it was reasonable not todo it would say, well, we can't think of everything, andyou know, it's in the prison, and prisons normally dowork. I mean, they're not great, but they have a -- afairly disciplined order. And so, it's good enough. Andyour response to that is what? MS. ZIEVE: It wasn't good enough in -- in thesecircumstances. The Government has shown us --QUESTION: Well, they might -- they might saymore than that. They might say we have no reason tobelieve that the prison delivery system is any worse thanthe post office's delivery system. And I -- I guess it's your -- I guess it's yourcontention that even if the reason your client neverreceived the notice was -- had nothing to do with thefault of the -- of the prison. It was the Postal Servicethat lost the -- the notice on the way. That would still-- that would still invalidate the service. Right? MS. ZIEVE: It would still mean the forfeiturewas done without adequate notice. QUESTION: So that -- so -- which would not bethe case, I suppose, unless you're going to adopt thecertified mail rule, which would not be the case for anordinary citizen who is not incarcerated. If notice issent to an ordinary citizen and the post office looses it,unless you adopt the certified mail rule, that would beadequate notice. But in the case of an incarceratedperson, if the post office looses it, it is not adequatenotice. Right? MS. ZIEVE: Well, I don't know that it would beadequate notice to serve someone by mail out of prison ifit's not received. QUESTION: Well, what is -- what is thestatutory requirement in your view for forfeiture as -- asfar as notice is concerned? MS. ZIEVE: The statutory requirement? QUESTION: Yes. MS. ZIEVE: Is publication and notice to theinterested party. QUESTION: By mail? What is the generalstatutory requirement on these forfeiture notices? MS. ZIEVE: I believe the statute says by mail,although the Government always does it by certified mail. And it does that --QUESTION: Is it in the materials we have in thebriefs? Is there some copy of that provision somewherethat you're aware of in the briefs? Don't take a lot oftime if you don't know. I just thought perhaps you knew. Is in your brief at all? MS. ZIEVE: It's on page of the Government'sbrief. QUESTION: Page . MS. ZIEVE: It just says, shall be sent to eachparty who appears to have an interest. QUESTION: See, that's why I don't know how todo it because, I mean, suppose there's a ship, forexample. Take the other extreme case. People forfeitships. People have tort actions against ships, and youcould have ships that are owned by thousands of people,for example. And where you bring the action against thething, it's fairly normal that you don't actually have toget the signature of every person who has some interest in that ship, for example. Now, I think, am I not right, ordo you have to get the signature? If -- if, for example, you're bringing an actionagainst a thing and the thing is owned by millions,thousands, or hundreds, does the -- do you have tonormally, under the rules -- forget the Constitution forthe moment -- you have to get the signature on a -- onthat notice, a return receipt requested of each person whohas an interest in that thing? MS. ZIEVE: Under the statute? QUESTION: Yes. MS. ZIEVE: Now, you've asked a sort ofcomplicated question because the statute for an in remjudicial forfeiture requires publication, but theGovernment, based on this Court's case law, gives noticeby certified mail. QUESTION: But I take it your argument would bethat even if all the signatures are not required in the inrem case, there is -- there is a fairness in the procedurethat would not require actual notice and signatures toevery ship owner because the owner of the ship at leasthas some right to control the ship. So, you say, look, if-- if they don't pay attention to what's happening totheir ship, we -- we can tag them with that. But the difference between that case and this, as I understand it, is there is a period between deliveryof the letter and what should be the point of receipt bythe prisoner when the prisoner is not in control of theprocess. The post office has finished its part. So, ifwe assume regularity on the post office is normallyenough, that isn't enough here because there's a hiatusbetween where the post office stops and the point at whichwe hope the prisoner gets the delivery. And I take it you would be satisfied in thiscase, even without a rule requiring actual signature, ifthe Government were required to show, with a greaterdetail than you say it has here, that there was a regularprocedure, at the time involved here, that makes it justas probable that the letter would have gotten from thefront door of the prison to the prisoner, as it isprobable that the letter mailed in the box gets to thefront door of the prison. You'd be satisfied with thatkind of a rule, wouldn't you? MS. ZIEVE: Yes. I'm not -- it's not -- it'snot important to petitioner how the procedures --QUESTION: How he wins the case as long as hewins. I realize that. (Laughter.) MS. ZIEVE: No. QUESTION: I mean, you would -- you would be satisfied if -- if we had the -- I take it, the same kindof demand for proof of regularity for the period betweenthe front door of the prison and the prisoner's cell thatwe do from the mailbox to the front door of the prison. That would be a reasonable system. And -- and you'd besatisfied with it, I would take it, as a general rule.MS. ZIEVE: Probably. QUESTION: It would be nice to have a signaturerequirement, but basically we -- we would have the samekind of rule then that we have with -- with respect tomail delivery in general. MS. ZIEVE: Yes, but the reason that I emphasizethe signature is because, as the Bureau of Prisons hassince recognized, the -- the signature does help toimprove delivery. It helps to make sure that this letteris treated with some extra attention and care. It ensuresthat it's not going to get misdelivered to Larry Smith twocells over. QUESTION: What do we do with prisoners whowon't sign? MS. ZIEVE: Well, actually the Board of Prisonsprocedures deal with that, and I think effectively, whichis on the log book, if the prisoner refuses to sign, thenthe person delivering the mail signs for it stating thatthe prisoner won't sign, which I think is comparable to a process server giving a contemporaneous statement thatservice has been completed. QUESTION: You know, it seems to me we need tofocus on some kind of a test, and I thought I understoodyou to argue for a test that says in these prison cases,there has to be actual receipt by the prisoner. And I --I know the Third Circuit and probably the Fourth have adifferent sort of test, which is that the Government justhas to show that internal prison delivery procedures areadequate. Is that an acceptable general statement of thetest?MS. ZIEVE: They have to be adequate. My viewis that under this Court's -- the analysis that this Courthas used in its cases, in its due process cases, thatapplying that general statement leads to the same resultthat I'm arguing for here, although if the Court --QUESTION: You say it isn't adequate unlessthere's actual receipt. MS. ZIEVE: Yes, because those procedures are --it's entirely practicable to do that. There's -- it isnot difficult to --QUESTION: Well, in the event we don't agreewith you, what's your fall-back position? MS. ZIEVE: Well, even under the Third Circuit'sformulation, the Court, looking at the procedures in the record, such as they are -- those procedures wereinadequate. It's uncontested that he didn't get thenotice, and the procedures as described, are inadequate,although for the same reasons as I think lead to actualnotice, even if you don't want to go that far. QUESTION: Why is it that a procedure isinadequate if the procedure is that if we get certifiedmail, we -- we deliver it to the prisoner? What'sinadequate about that as a procedural standard?MS. ZIEVE: Again, it doesn't provide theassurances of delivery that both are feasible because, ifyou're going to deliver it, it doesn't take that much tojust get the signature, and because I think it's importantto have cross checks to make sure that the Government --QUESTION: Do we look back at Mullane or atMathews v. Eldridge for our guidance here in establishinga standard?MS. ZIEVE: I think either one, Your Honor. Mullane states -- sort of states the test in one sentence,but I think summarizes the three-part framework thatMathews articulates later. Either way you can reach thesame result. The value of the property at stake, the riskof erroneous deprivation, the valuable -- the value ofadditional procedures, and the burden on the Government,the factors to consider, all lead to same -- to the result here that the prison should have done more and could haveand should have ensured actual notice to inmates in itscharge. QUESTION: -- apply this rule to any -- anythingother than prisons or are you talking about thecircumstances of someone incarcerated by the Government? Is there any other setting in which you would require notmerely that certified mail be sent and signed for bysomeone, but in-hand delivery? MS. ZIEVE: There may be other cases, thoughthere also may not be. This is the easy case. If there'sany circumstances where actual notice is required, it'sgot to be these where the Government is both the senderand sort of the recipient for later delivery to the personwho it knows where it is --QUESTION: Why is it the easy case? It is thecase, I take it from your argument, because you haven'tsuggested that there might be another setting other thanwhere the Government has someone in confinement. MS. ZIEVE: No, I haven't. QUESTION: Is it any part of your argument thatwe should be suspicious of prison officials because theymay use a refusal to follow their procedures forvindictive reasons or anything like that? MS. ZIEVE: That may occur, Your Honor, but our argument does not rely on any malfeasance on theGovernment's part. QUESTION: That's not your argument. QUESTION: Well, if that's not part of yourargument, I don't see why your situation is any differentfrom the military situation where, unless -- unless theserviceman or woman is AWOL, the Government knows rightwhere that person is and the Government is responsible for-- for where that person is. I don't know why youwouldn't have the same rule. MS. ZIEVE: Well, to be honest, I hadn'tconsidered the military situation, and maybe there's moreparallels. However, there's still the -- the inmate isstill special in that he has no control over his property. There are no proxies looking out for him, for hisinterests. And the mail, even when it's sent to themilitary, my assumption is that if you get certified mail,the soldier is going to sign for it. The officer willsign for it and not someone for later delivery to himwithout any proof or documentation about what happened inthe interim. If the Court has no further questions, I'd liketo reserve the balance of my time. QUESTION: Very well, Ms. Zieve. Mr. Minear, we'll hear from you. ORAL ARGUMENT OF JEFFREY P. MINEARON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTMR. MINEAR: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court:This Court has repeatedly held that the noticerequirements of the Due Process Clause are satisfied by amethod of notice that's reasonably calculated to provideinterested parties with notice of the proceedings.The Government's method of providing notice inthis case, this forfeiture case, satisfies that test. Themethod was by the use of certified mail. And petitionerdoes not dispute that mails generally are satisfactory forpurposes of notice. Rather they draw the distinction thatonly in the case of prisoners is that method unwarrantedor unconstitutional. Petitioner is asserting a constitutionalviolation. It therefore has the burden of proof ofestablishing the procedures the Government used areunconstitutional. And I'd like to clarify a point with regard towhether notice was received here or not. The Governmenthas not submitted that notice was not received. We simplyare unable to prove that it was not received. QUESTION: So, why not just put the burden onthe person who was supposed to get it to prove he didn't get it? MR. MINEAR: Well, that is in fact what the court did. It didn't -- there wasn't a test it required,but the inquiry was made, and the court concluded thatwhatever the protestations of the defendant might be, orthe prisoner in this case, nevertheless the method thatwas used here was reasonably calculated to reach him. Andthat is all that Mullane requires. QUESTION: No, no. Look, what I take it thatshe's arguing for is there's a step missing here and itshould apply not just to prisoners, apply to anybody who'sgoing to have their property forfeited, and that is, yougive them notice by certified mail so they have to signit. That's the point. So, it would apply to everybody,armed forces, everybody. And what's wrong with that? Itisn't that hard to do. It protects pretty thoroughlyagainst losing your property without even knowing aboutit. So, do it. MR. MINEAR: The problem --QUESTION: That's -- that's basically, as Iunderstand it, the argument. MR. MINEAR: The problem with that position isit's contrary to years of this Court's precedence,which has consistently recognized that mailing alone --not certified mail -- but ordinary mail, is sufficient to provide parties with notice.QUESTION: Where did the Court hold that? QUESTION: Have we ever said that with referenceto a simple contract or tort action? MR. MINEAR: No. All of the cases in which thisissue has arisen in this Court's jurisprudence haveinvolved special procedures. Nevertheless --QUESTION: Well, that's why I'm asking becausein Mullane and subsequent cases, we have tended to saythat the in rem/in personam distinction is -- is not tooclear a line. Are you arguing for the proposition that, again,in a standard contract or tort case, notice by mail wouldbe sufficient? MR. MINEAR: We are certainly willing to defendthe proposition that the Federal Rules of Procedure, whichprovide --QUESTION: No. I'm talking about -- I'm talkingabout due process requirements now. MR. MINEAR: Yes. And -- and with regard to theFederal Rules, they do recognize that service can beeffected through mail -- through the notice of waiverprovisions that are set forth there, and we would defendthe constitutionality of those provisions which allow theparty to, in fact, accept service by notice. QUESTION: If this Court writes a due processopinion, can we say that mail, routine mail, is alwayssufficient, or are there some cases in which you must havepersonal service? MR. MINEAR: Well, the Court can certainly dothat. We might caution that it's not necessary to do thatin this case. QUESTION: Well, I want to know what theprinciple is that you're -- that controls our case, thebeginning principle here. MR. MINEAR: The Court has drawn theseprinciples largely from common experience and knowledgeabout the instrumentalities that are used for purposes ofservice. And if we looked at the Mullane case, the Courtcited that the mails had, through common experience, beendetermined to be a reasonable means for providing servicein that type of proceeding. Now, whether the Court would want to take thestep of saying that the mails are always adequate in anyproceeding is a step that's not necessary for the Court totake. And so, I'm hesitant to suggest to the Court thatit ought to do so. It certainly does not need to do so inthis case because this case involves procedures that arevery similar to Tulsa, to Mennonite, to Schroeder, to --QUESTION: All right. So, then you are relying on the fact that this is a forfeiture case and we're --there's this voice of the past of in rem versus inpersonam hanging over this -- this argument of yours. MR. MINEAR: Well, actually no, Your Honor. It's not the in rem nature of the proceedings, but ratherit's a -- it's an intersection of two factors. One, this type of proceeding is similar to theproceedings this Court has dealt with previously that arenot necessarily in rem. For instance, probate claims arenot necessarily -- would not necessarily be treated as inrem I think under -- under traditional law. But it's --it's the intersection of the fact that these proceedingsare similar to proceedings elsewhere that the Court hasalready ruled on and the fact that this Court can draw onits long experience the mails are, in fact, as a practicalmatter, a reasonable means for providing service orproviding notice.QUESTION: I'm just very puzzled by yourreliance on Mullane when Justice Jackson took such care tosay this procedure, common trust fund, so manybeneficiaries, some unknown, some addresses lost -- if weuse regular mail, the chances are it will get to many, ifnot most, people in the group, and that's good enough forthat kind of case. Here we're talking about some $,that once belonged to an individual, not trusts combined together in a common fund with hundreds, eventhousands of beneficiaries. QUESTION: Your Honor, Mullane has been extendedbeyond the facts of its individual case. And this caseis, in fact, quite similar to the Court's most recentdecisions, such as Tulsa Professional Services. In thatcase, I believe there was some $, in medical feesthat were in dispute. The -- the creditor in that casecouldn't count on other claimants, as in Mullane, toperhaps make the arguments that that creditor might --QUESTION: Well, but that was with the probateproceeding. And as Justice Ginsburg's questions point outand what I've been trying to -- to explore with you, thisis a case where a person has an ownership interest. It'snot that much different from an ordinary contract or tortaction. MR. MINEAR: Yes, Your Honor. And we think thatthis case is similar to Tulsa and ought to be treated assuch. I'm simply reluctant to urge this Court to gobeyond the facts of this case and to deal with thequestion of a civil complaint and whether ordinary --QUESTION: I suppose -- I suppose in probate aclaimant, a debtor claimant, is in much the same standingas a person who sues in contract on that claim before theperson dies. MR. MINEAR: Well, yes. But probate is verysimilar to the situation here, that the notice that isbeing provided is simply to ascertain whether there areany claims outstanding to the property at issue. And if aperson does make a claim, then that initiates a judicialprocedure in which further process would be necessary.But this case is --QUESTION: Here there's no doubt about theperson who has the interest. It was not like sending outa notice: any interested people come forward. TheGovernment knows who the person in the world is who has aclaim to this $,.MR. MINEAR: But, Your Honor, the same could besaid, for instance, in Mennonite with regard to themortgagee, that the person who is -- that -- that was asituation in which there was an interest in -- inforeclosing on a property and selling it at a tax sale. Now, the Government in that situation certainly could haveidentified the mortgagor and simply provided notice bypublication. This Court said that notice by mail wassufficient. It was the minimum that was necessary and itapplied in that --QUESTION: -- better than publication generally.MR. MINEAR: Yes. QUESTION: -- publication is the least effective, and the Mullane case that you rely on soheavily makes that point. MR. MINEAR: Yes, and that's the reason why theGovernment in these situations provides notice bypublication, also by notice to the person's last address,and also notice to his current address if it can beascertained. In this case, the Government, throughreasonable diligence, was able to locate the individualand send notice to his place of incarceration. The only thing that distinguishes this case, infact, is that the mails are being directed to a prison,and the only real question here is whether the prisonsystem is reliable. And what we established at trial was,in fact, it was. There were procedures in place to ensurethat the mails were delivered to prisoners. QUESTION: Fine. Then you would win even undertheir rule because then the prisoner would be unable toprove that he didn't get the notice. So, assume that that's the rule. The prisonerhas to prove he didn't get the notice. Anyone who doesn't-- who actually gets notice loses. Assume that. What I'dlike to know is, assuming that, what is the argumentagainst saying where it's a forfeiture case and where theforfeiting -- the person who's going to get the propertyknows the address of the individual who would forfeit the property, that person has to use certified mail? What shesaid was the Government does that anyway in forfeiturecases. MR. MINEAR: The argument against that, YourHonor, is that the Due Process Clause simply specifies theconstitutional minimum. The Government can make adecision to provide more process than is necessary.QUESTION: Fine. And my question is, what is --if you're in the Government, aside from -- well, it's alittle easier. Is there any policy reason for not doingit? MR. MINEAR: The reason -- there -- there areseveral reasons for not recognizing this as a -- a generalconstitutional standard. One is the fact that it wouldhave to be applied to other analogous situations at leastby a parity of reason-­QUESTION: All right. And the reason thatthat's wrong is because? I mean, the harm that it will doit other analogous situations. Give me an example of someserious problem that would be caused by such a rule. MR. MINEAR: The rule would, first of all,require, for instance, as the Chief Justice has pointedout, similar service on the armed services. It also wouldapply to other situations that might not be documented inthe record. For instance, it's my understanding that the Postal Service delivers mail to dormitories andresidential halls in bulk for distribution to the peoplethat live in those halls. So --QUESTION: So, I want an example, since you'rewriting the address anyway -- I want an example of theproblem that would be caused by saying you not only haveto write the address, you also have to send it certified,whether it's to dormitories, armed forces, prisoners, oranyone else in the world. What's the actual practicalproblem that would cause the Government? MR. MINEAR: Well, I cannot say that theGovernment cannot overcome that difficulty, because itdoes in fact use certified mail. But the problem is should the Court erect thatas a constitutional standard, and the difficulties witherecting that as a constitutional standard, as I pointedout before, is it will be very difficult to cabin that toa wide variety of other situations --QUESTION: With certified mail, you have to geta signature from the recipient, whereas with ordinarymail, you can put it in the slot in your mailbox. Inother words, it's often difficult to obtain the certifiedmail signature in a way that it wouldn't be to get theordinary mail slot.MR. MINEAR: That's correct. And, for example --QUESTION: But shouldn't it be difficult ifyou're going to take $, away from them? MR. MINEAR: Your Honor, but again, this case ison -- on par with other cases that involved similaramounts of money. And with regard to the signature -- obtainingthe signature, my suggestion is it might be that thelitigation will shift from the assertions that we think inmany cases are -- are untrue, that the person did notreceive the notice, that, well, a guard signed for me andnever actually -- I did not refuse to receive it and aguard simply signed and said that I refused. What we're trying to do from a policyperspective, from the Bureau of Prisons' perspective, isto eliminate the sort of wasteful litigation that takesplace over assertions.QUESTION: Mr. Minear, the Third Circuit hasapparently adopted a test that requires the Government toshow a little more than that it dropped a notice in themail, and that, in fact, the Government must show thatprocedures at the receiving facility, the prison, werereasonably calculated to deliver notice to the intendedrecipient. MR. MINEAR: Yes. QUESTION: Is that a -- a standard that theGovernment would find satisfactory? MR. MINEAR: We disagree with that, Your Honor,for the reasons set forth in Judge Alito's dissentingopinion on -- on that ground; namely, that it imposesburdens that are not necessary. The burden is on theperson who's raising the constitutional challenge to showthe deficiency in the procedures, and no deficiency in theprocedures has been shown. QUESTION: But your -- your argument, it seemsto me, is premised on the fact that forfeiture is like anin rem proceeding and it's just different. Assume with me-- I'm not sure that this is -- assume that there's aconstitutional due process requirement for personalservice unless there's some showing of unavailability inthe routine case for contract and tort. Why should thisbe any different? MR. MINEAR: The reason -- the reason why --QUESTION: That may be an heroic assumption. I'm not sure that's true. I think -- let me go back. Do you know of any State which in an ordinarycivil action allows service by mail as a routine matter?MR. MINEAR: I don't know of --QUESTION: Absent unavailability or the factthat the person is avoiding the process server or something like that? MR. MINEAR: I don't know of any State thatallows ordinary mail. I believe that a number of Stateshave adopted certified mail with return receipt requested. I believe that California follows that pattern. And infact, the Federal rules that provide this optional methodwere based on that -- on that approach.QUESTION: Okay. But then -- then going back to the otherquestion, it seems to me your case is premised on theassumption that this is a forfeiture in rem type,different action than -- than a routine contract or tortaction.MR. MINEAR: Well, we certainly do think itfalls on the side of the -- of the line that this other --the other cases of this Court demarcs, namely probateproceedings, tax sales, condemnation proceedings, noticeof forcible entry and detainer proceedings, which arebasically ejectment proceedings. All of those types ofproceedings have involved situations where this Courtindicated that notice by ordinary mail would besufficient.Now, we go beyond that. We do provide certifiedmail as -- as a matter of policy. And it serves animportant policy -- QUESTION: May I ask you? This is prompted byJustice Scalia's question. Does the Government have anyspecial procedures for people in the military? MR. MINEAR: I'm not aware of any specialprocedures that -- that we provide in those situations. For instance, if there was forfeiture --QUESTION: And I should think there's a lot ofmail that might -- addressed to a serviceman that might besigned for by the mail orderly or something. He may neverget the mail. I'm just wondering if the -- there'snothing in the record about that, is there? MR. MINEAR: No. There's nothing in the recordand it's not clear to me at all that if there was aforfeiture that was directed to a serviceman, it would betreated any differently. QUESTION: What about the -- the immunity whilethe person -- there's an immunity that governs people inthe military during the time. Is it -- what is thatstatute?QUESTION: The Soldier's and Sailor's CivilRelief Act. MR. MINEAR: Yes, and I'm not sure how thatwould apply in this situation. It might very well tollthe type of requirement --QUESTION: It would toll the statute of limitations because the person could assert immunity forthe period that they're in service.MR. MINEAR: Yes. I'm simply not certain howthat would apply. But I do know that for general civilprocedures -- for civil forfeitures, the regulations ofthe FBI do provide mechanisms such as mitigation andremission that can ameliorate some of the hardships, wherea party can actually show that there was nonreceipt.QUESTION: But can I ask you a question thatpuzzles me about this? The -- even before the currentregulations, there was this special mail category andseveral things fell into it, including letters that theprisoner would get from the attorney. Those have to beopened in the presence of the prisoner? MR. MINEAR: That's correct. QUESTION: And then there was this categorycalled law enforcement. And why wasn't a notice of thischaracter categorized as law enforcement and therefore putwithin the special mail category? MR. MINEAR: I think for a short while the DEAand the FBI did follow the practice of denominatingcertain mails as special mail. I'm not sure if thespecial mail category existed in . I don't think therecord is clear on that. I would point out, however, that under the Bureau of Prisons operations memorandum, there is moreprotection to providing it by certified mail rather thanby special mail, primarily because of the long period ofretention of the log books for certified mail. And so,the practice for -- the current practice of BOP --QUESTION: That applies to the Federal system,but the rule we're working with today would apply to Stateforfeitures as well, the State prisons and the like. So,your rules don't necessarily tell us what would happen ina -- to a State prisoner. MR. MINEAR: No, they do not, although I thinkthat the -- the Court can -- can safely assume that Stateprisons do, in fact, provide for mail delivery to theirprisoners. QUESTION: Would you just comment on thesuggestion that your opponent has made, in effect, thatthere really ought to be a special rule for people who arein the custody of the Federal Government? And I assumewith Justice Scalia that would include military personneltoo. Is there -- would it make sense to say that whenthey know darned well where a person is, there's no reasonto have three publications in the local newspaper? Youjust make sure you get it to -- to where the man is. MR. MINEAR: Well, there's no reason to depart-- that's certainly -- the fact that we know where the person is, certainly does dictate that we contact theperson by mail, and that's inconsistent with Mullane andits progeny, that where the address is reasonablyascertainable, the person should be contacted by mail.The fact that we have the person under ourcontrol I don't think adds anything to that. The basicquestion is, is this notice reasonably certain to reachthe inmate? And if it does, it doesn't really matter ifhe's at a location of our choosing or some other location. It's simply what's important here is, is this method, isthe procedure reasonably certain to provide actual notice?QUESTION: Is there any court action -- if youaccepted your -- your points and said, look, they send itto the prison. It's signed for in the prison. So, up tothere, it's certified. And then a person regularly picksit up, and this person did, and then delivers it to thecell. Suppose the picker-upper either maliciously,negligently, or deliberately didn't give it to theprisoner. Would the prisoner have any kind of claim underthe Tort Claims Act? MR. MINEAR: I think not under the Tort ClaimsAct because it does exclude intentional torts. Theremight be the -- the opportunity for either seeking redressthrough the prison administrative remedies or through aBivens type action. But certainly the problem there -- QUESTION: -- Bivens type action. It must bethat there's a constitutional right or -- I mean, that's-- but -- but is under the Torts Claims Act negligence?MR. MINEAR: Under negligence? There isconceivably an opportunity to seek damages based onnegligence, although you'd have to show an absence of --of due care. In the case of the Government, theregulations here do certainly provide the sort ofreasonableness that we think compliance with would --would satisfy the standard.QUESTION: Let me make sure I understand yourposition on one point. Is it your view that that even ifyou had not use certified mail in this case, but just usedregular mail and an affidavit by the Secretary that it wasmailed and so forth, that that would be constitutionallysufficient? MR. MINEAR: Yes. It's our view that that wouldbe constitutionally sufficient. The procedures that weuse, with regard to certified mail, are something that wedo beyond constitutional requirements in order to --primarily to ensure that we can disprove false claims ofnonreceipt. QUESTION: Mr. Minear, am I correct that the --that the current method of simply providing written noticeis -- you -- you maintain that that is method that Congress has specified in U.S.C. (a)?MR. MINEAR: The method of -- the requirement ofproviding written notice I believe is in , on page of our briefs. And all that Congress has specified isthat -- oh, excuse me. It is (a). I'm mistaken. Written notice of seizure, together with information --QUESTION: This is on page , Mr. Minear? MR. MINEAR: On page , and the -- at the end ofthe first indented paragraph.It provides that written notice of seizure is tobe provided. It does not specify mail --QUESTION: Shall be sent. MR. MINEAR: Shall be sent. QUESTION: Shall be sent. MR. MINEAR: To each party --QUESTION: What do you think that means? Howdoes one normally send things? MR. MINEAR: Well, normally by mail, and wethink that it's --QUESTION: It doesn't say shall be sent bycertified mail. I think it's -- a fair reading of whatCongress thought was adequate was -- was by mail. MR. MINEAR: Yes. I think that by ordinarymail. And I think -- as I say, the certified mailprocedure is something that the Bureau of Prisons and the agencies have adopted in order to disprove false claims ofnonreceipt. That's its principal purpose. But it's our position that ordinary mail issufficient here as it would be in the wide variety ofother cases, comparable other cases, this Court hasaddressed. QUESTION: How do you think the Sixth Circuitstandard differs from the Third Circuit's and theFourth's?MR. MINEAR: I think as a practical matter, YourHonor, there's primarily a question of the burden ofproof. Under the Sixth Circuit's standard, we are simply-- if we are challenged, if there's a challenge to whethermail was -- was received or not, it's the obligation ofthat party who's raising the challenge to prove the lackof reasonableness. QUESTION: Well, but here the Government isseeking to forfeit property from someone. Maybe it's notunreasonable to think that the Government has the burdenof proving that notice was given or reasonably calculatedto be given. MR. MINEAR: Well, the Government met thatburden in this case, but again, we don't think that thatshould be the test. Rather, we think that it's theobligation of the party to show that -- what defects are necessary. And in this case, the only defect -- the onlyproof of inadequacy that petitioner showed was his claimthat he did not receive the notice, and we in returnindicated there were procedures in place that would haveascertained the mail. Now, because the issue is joined, it's likelythe Government would be required or would find itnecessary or useful to put forward information aboutprocedures. But the problem with the Third Circuit standardis it requires that we, ex ante, at the very beginning ofthe process, go through and determine what procedures arein various prisons. And that doesn't seem particularly --that seems particularly inappropriate with regard to Stateprisons where we think it's reasonable for us to send --to mail the receipts to the prisons with the expectationthat those State prisons will forward the mailappropriately. QUESTION: Mr. Minear, we have a smattering ofcourts of appeals cases addressing the issue that we'vegot today, but beyond that, I don't know how muchlitigation there is about this. Do we have any indicationof how much time in forfeiture cases is spent litigatingthe question of notice? MR. MINEAR: I don't know the answer to that, Your Honor. As we point out in the brief, in the year, the Government, the DEA and the FBI, sent outroughly , notices of forfeiture to their incarceratedprisoners. Now, how many of those are contested, I don'tknow the answer to that, but certainly there is thepossibility of a substantial clog on the courts,particularly over claims of nonreceipt which are so easilymade. QUESTION: Well, except that I -- I don't knowthat the -- that that argument really favors you. Therewould be certainly some questions of -- of adequacy ofsignature and so on. But if there were a -- a certifiedmail kind of signature requirement, I'm guessing thatinstitutionally it might be of some help to the courtsbecause I'm -- I am assuming that in most cases therewouldn't be any contest. If the Government had thesignature, it would go forward. If it didn't have thesignature, it would wait until it got one. So, I am -- Iam assuming that, knowing nothing, if I don't know anyfacts beyond what I know now, that there might be aninstitutional advantage in a rule that required the -- thekind of proof that -- that your friend on the other sidewants. MR. MINEAR: Your Honor, I think that -- youknow, that the Department of Justice, and the Bureau of Prisons in particular, has tried to be helpful in thatregard with -- with regard to providing this type ofprocess. But we simply do not believe that it's requiredby the Due Process Clause and was not required to be inplace in when this case arose. QUESTION: But would you -- would you agree thatthere can be an institutional consideration in a closedcase in deciding what due process does require? MR. MINEAR: That certainly is a factor that theCourt could weigh, but again --QUESTION: Well, you'd have no problem if we --if we held the way you've asked us to hold. I mean, that-- that institutional problem would disappear if you putit in the mail and there are prison procedures in place,as there are in every prison, everything is okay. Right?QUESTION: There wouldn't be any litigationabout that. QUESTION: There wouldn't be any litigation.MR. MINEAR: Well -- well, no. No, there isn't,but there are also State prisons that do need to determinewhat procedures they would follow. And my guess is thereare a large number of State prisons that follow thepractice that was in place in , namely that certifiedmail may be signed by the -- by the prison officials, butthey may not have recorded signatures with regard to the actual receipt by the inmate. QUESTION: And you think it's not reasonable forthe Government go assume that the State prison proceduresare adequate to get mail to State prisoners. You don'tthink that that's reasonably calculated to get mail toState prisoners. MR. MINEAR: We think it is reasonablycalculated. Exactly, yes. QUESTION: So, if we held that this is areasonable -- sending it by mail is a reasonable way to doit, you wouldn't have any more of an institutionalproblem. same --MR. MINEAR: Well, no, we wouldn't. At theQUESTION: But if we -- if we said that becausethere is a gap between mail delivery to a prison anddelivery to a prisoner and, for that reason, there must besome indication of the procedure for getting the mail tothe prisoner, then you might have a -- a problem and theremight be an institutional advantage in a signature rule. Wouldn't there? MR. MINEAR: Well -- well, that's correct. Butagain, I think that the baseline, the constitutionalbaseline, here should be that ordinary mail suffices, andit's left to the -- QUESTION: I don't understand why it's -- it'sintuitively obvious that ordinary mail suffices when wehave a situation here which is different from thesituation covered by the -- the ordinary mail. In theordinary mail situation, the mail is delivered tosomeone's post office box or -- or a mailbox, and that boxis under the control of the addressee. We don't have thathere. We have a -- we have a gap between that point andthe point at which the mail gets to a prisoner. Andthat's why it doesn't seem obvious to me that merelyadopting an ordinary mail rule is appropriate to thesecircumstances at all. What am I missing? MR. MINEAR: Your Honor, I think what -- whatyou see here is the proceedings below validated the factthat ordinary mail would suffice, the fact that there aremail --QUESTION: The proceedings below didn't -- as Iunderstand it, did not stop with proof that the letter wasmailed. The proceedings below involved an -- anindication of what the prison did with the mail when itgot it in order to get that mail to the prisoner. Isn'tthat correct? MR. MINEAR: Well, perhaps the answer to yourquestion, Your Honor, is that this Court can certainlyaffirm the decision below and say that the procedures below were adequate. It would be our view, though, thatthe Court ought not to foreclose the possibility thatordinary mail would suffice.QUESTION: Mr. Minear, are there -- do you knowwhether there are more prisoners incarcerated in prisonsthan there are college students living in dormitories towhom the mail is not delivered personally or -- orindividuals living in high rise apartment buildings wherethe mail is -- is sorted downstairs and not delivered bythe -- by the postman to their -- to their own room? MR. MINEAR: I do not know the answer to that,Your Honor.QUESTION: That's a problem for all thosepeople, just as it is for prisoners. They have to rely onwhatever institution they're in getting the mail to them.MR. MINEAR: Yes. Although I would draw adistinction between the apartment building whereoftentimes the mail is provided -- is sorted by the mail-- by the U.S. Postal Service, put into individual boxes,and the dormitory residential hall. I think the PostalService does draw a distinction between apartmentbuildings and dormitories in that regard. QUESTION: Mr. Minear --QUESTION: What about a hospital? QUESTION: -- there was a period when mail was not always routinely delivered to prisoners. Sometimes itwas censored and all the rest. Would you say thatordinary mail would have been sufficient in that period oftime? MR. MINEAR: Yes. Well, we think -- again,there are --QUESTION: The warden could just put it on theshelf and not even give it to the prisoner and there wouldbe no remedy at all. MR. MINEAR: Obviously, if there is -- if thereis reason to believe by the party that's sending noticethe mail will not -- that ordinary mail will not suffice,then due process may require that additional steps betaken. QUESTION: Mr. Minear, in the -- in the hospitalsetting, the Government has a claim against someone, knowsthat person is hospitalized, sends ordinary mail to thehospital for the contract claim, the tort claim, whatever. Is the Government saying that for an individual it isenough that mail is sent to that person care of aninstitution, no return receipt requested, that will do tosatisfy due process notice requirements? MR. MINEAR: Your Honor, I think that it wouldfor this reason, that if a return address is provided andthe mail is not delivered by the hospital, we can expect the hospital to send the mail return it to sender. Uponlearning that, the Government may be on an -- under anobligation at that point --QUESTION: But suppose the hospital doesn't? Suppose all we know is that this mail -- well, I thinkyour time is up. MR. MINEAR: Okay. Thank you, Your Honor.QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. Minear. Ms. Zieve, you have minutes remaining. REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF ALLISON M. ZIEVEON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERMS. ZIEVE: First of all, I'd like to addressthe -- the suggestion that these cases are about falseclaims. Mr. Dusenbery actually made claims -- tried toget return of property of eight categories of forfeitedproperty in this case and in the one cited at F.d. As to seven of the eight categories, it was proventhat he didn't get the notice either because it wasn'tsent at all or it was sent to the wrong place. So,there's no reason to think that he's lying about theeighth.In addition, this is not a mail notice case. We're not talking about the adequacy of mail notice to amortgage company or a creditor of an estate. This case ismore comparable to a situation in which you have a process server go out and you prove that you gave the notice tothe process server, but you don't ask him or her to evergive you any verification that it was served. Certified mail -- counsel suggests it could beabove the constitutional minimum, but applying thisCourt's framework, this Court's test for assessing theadequacy of notice, we know it's not above theconstitutional minimum because it will reduce the risk oferroneous deprivation at minimal burden, and we know itreduces the risk because it can only be -- the notice canonly be delivered, if their signature is required, to theaddressee. It will not be sent as in a private residence. It won't be misdelivered to your neighbor's house if youhave to sign for it. In a prison, it's not going to bemisdelivered to the next cell or bundled with somethingelse. The inmate is going to have to sign for it. And finally, the Third Circuit, which did notrequire actual notice, did so only because of concernabout the evidentiary burden it would place on theGovernment to have that standard, but the Government'scurrent --QUESTION: Thank you, Ms. Zieve. MS. ZIEVE: Thank you. CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: The case is submitted.(Whereupon, at : a.m., the case in the above-entitled matter was submitted.) 