 IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XUS AIRWAYS, INC., Petitioner ::v. : No. -ROBERT BARNETT :- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XWashington, D.C.Tuesday, December , The above-entitled matter came on for oralargument before the Supreme Court of the United States at: a.m.APPEARANCES:WALTER E. DELLINGER, III, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; onbehalf of the Petitioner.CLAUDIA CENTER, ESQ., San Francisco, California; onbehalf of the Respondent. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC C O N T E N T SORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGEWALTER E. DELLINGER, III, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioner ORAL ARGUMENT OFCLAUDIA CENTER, ESQ.On behalf of the Respondent REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OFWALTER E. DELLINGER, III, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioner th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC P R O C E E D I N G S(: a.m.)CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: We'll hear argumentnext in Number -, U.S. Airways, Inc. v. RobertBarnett.Mr. Dellinger.ORAL ARGUMENT OF WALTER E. DELLINGER, IIION BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERMR. DELLINGER: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court:Title I of the Americans With Disabilities Actdoes more than merely prohibit hostile discriminationagainst individuals with disabilities. Congressrecognized that an additional kind of discrimination isthe failure of employers through indifference or whateverto undertake reasonable accommodations to the physical ormental limitations of otherwise qualified individuals. Asa result, this act does affirmatively require businessesto lift barriers that inhibit employment opportunities forthose with disabilities.The question here, though, is whether, in oneparticular respect, the act goes beyond a requirement thatobstacles be cleared away. The issue is this. Where anemployee is unable, because of a disability, to continuein his job, is that employee entitled to be placed in th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC another position instead of a more senior fellow employeewho would be entitled to the job under the normaloperation of a bona fide seniority system?Now, this is not an easy question, but webelieve that in the end a clear answer necessarily emergesfrom the act, and that is this, that the act simply doesnot require an employer to override neutral selectioncriteria wholly unrelated to disability in choosing amongapplicants for a position, and in particular it does notrequire the employer to set aside the normal operation ofa bona fide seniority system.QUESTION: Mr. Dellinger, are you suggesting bythat argument that the express exception for bona fideseniority systems in title VII was surplusage, that itwasn't needed, because there would have been -- it wouldhave been counted as a neutral rule?MR. DELLINGER: That is correct. In fact, Ithink the presence of that provision in title VII is partof a background assumption in which neither title VII norany other Civil Rights Act has ever taken what would be afairly substantial step of requiring an employer to prefersomeone for a position over an employee who is entitled toit under a seniority system or, indeed, to prefer anyapplicant over a more qualified employee.QUESTION: But your answer is that it wasn't th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC necessary to put that in title VII, title VII would applyjust the same way without it?MR. DELLINGER: That is correct. I do notbelieve that --QUESTION: Is there any indication that that'swhat Congress thought when it didn't -- I mean, it doesseem a rather conspicuous absence, that the model statute,the basic one has an express exception for bona fideseniority systems, and this one doesn't.MR. DELLINGER: Title VII took especial care todo that, but if you look at the more relevant statute, theRehabilitation Act, it also does not contain any expressexception and, moreover, it was interpreted not to requirethat, but most importantly under title VII, is thisCourt's decision in TWA v. Hardison, where the Court saidit would reach the same result as the principle we arguefor here, even without, even before you get to the portionof the act about bona fide seniority systems.The Court in Hardison held that the reasonableaccommodation language of that act for religiousadherence, the same reasonable accommodation unduehardship language does not require displacing the rightsof more senior employees under a seniority system in orderto accommodate a religious adherence need to avoid workingon a Saturday shift. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: But are there any instances in whichthe seniority clause has to be ignored in favor of areasonable accommodation? Suppose there are two positionsand they pay the same thing, but a senior employee wantsposition A, and that's the only one that the disabledperson can fulfill? The seniority provision trumps there?MR. DELLINGER: Yes, it does, Justice Kennedy,and let me acknowledge that, of course, whenever you havea clear rule like the rule here that an employee, that anemployer may apply a neutral standard unrelated todisability, such as a merit standard or a senioritystandard, any time you have a clear rule, and that's theway seniority systems operate, you're going to haveindividual cases where, if you had a different kind ofsystem involving individual assessment, you might reach adifferent conclusion in the very particular instances, butthat -- that notion that you look and see whether in oneparticular case favoring the interest of the less-senioremployee would in some social sense be better, that systemis fundamentally incompatible with the nature of how aseniority system operates.This is a system that, for US Airways, there are, customer service employees. Seniority is a systemthat gets rid of the potential of favoritism --QUESTION: Would you talk about what the system th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC is here, because I found it a little hard to understand. Is it that a policy of the employer, the airline, thatevery so often all positions in the category in which thisperson worked are declared vacant?MR. DELLINGER: I think that terminology is notused, Justice O'Connor. The effect may be the same. Whathappens under US Airways' system is that periodically,basically once a quarter, all positions are put up forrebidding.QUESTION: All positions throughout the company,or in certain categories of jobs?MR. DELLINGER: All through the entire categoryof customer service employees, which would be ,. Idon't think they rebuild the --QUESTION: Customer service jobs, once aquarter, are all declared open?MR. DELLINGER: That's right. Each differentdivision would -- well, they're not so much declared open,as simply put up for rebidding. That is, the way thesystem operates is that there is a -- it's a very simplesystem. There's a list kept in order of seniority. Everybody can rely upon where they are in the peckingorder of that list. When there are positions eliminated,the people who are in those positions are not necessarilythe ones who lose their job. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC If two positions are eliminated in the freightarea, the two juniormost employees have to leave, andthe --QUESTION: Well, we're not talking about jobelimination. I thought we were talking about an existingjob that continues but it's declared open.MR. DELLINGER: No. There is no -- there'sno -- if you gained the impression from respondent's briefthat Mr. Barnett's position was somehow singled out to bedeclared vacant --QUESTION: No. No, all customer service jobs,every quarter, are essentially declared open. Is that thepolicy?correct.MR. DELLINGER: That is correct. That isQUESTION: And at that -- is it also true, as Ithink you allege, that the seniority policy does notcreate legally enforceable rights in any employee? Noemployee wanting to come in would be able to sue to getthat enforced.MR. DELLINGER: That is correct. Thecompany's --QUESTION: So what kind of a seniority plan isthat? I mean, on the one hand you say, we have to applyour seniority plan, but on the other hand, it isn't th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC enforceable.MR. DELLINGER: Yes, and I'm glad you askedthat. Of course, the company's consistent position incourt, whenever someone wants to have a court review how aseniority plan is applied, is it relies upon the fact thatit does not create legal rights enforceable in court, butno one has challenged the fact that it is a bona fideprogram. It's not a --QUESTION: I know, but what would be thesituation if there were truly a vacant position at USAirways in customer service? Would you think the ADAwould say that it would be a reasonable accommodation toconsider a disabled employee for placement in one of thoseslots?MR. DELLINGER: Yes, absolutely. We believethat the reassignment aspect of reasonable accommodationdoes have considerable bite and does considerable work. It requires you not only to consider, but activelyconsider whether there are any other vacant places inwhich you could place an employee.QUESTION: I mean, there is a provision in theact itself, is there not, that speaks to a vacancy andthat can be a reasonable accommodation?MR. DELLINGER: That is correct, and we believethat what that means, Justice O'Connor, is that an th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC employer must, unlike the situation under theRehabilitation Act, where you could simply say you can'tdo the job --QUESTION: Yes.MR. DELLINGER: -- we're letting you go, wecan't accommodate that job, they have no obligation toconsider other places in the company.Here, they have to actively consider. You haveto actually go out, you're obligated to go out and try tofind a vacant position.QUESTION: Okay, so why isn't the sort of thingthat US Airways does here, declaring all these jobs openonce a quarter, create the kind of thing that US Airwayshas to consider a vacant position?MR. DELLINGER: Well, you are exactly right thatwhen the quarterly rebidding process comes up, yes, theyhave to consider, and they did, indeed, consider Mr.Barnett's request to be transferred into that position. Moreover, if they needed to make adjustment oraccommodations on how that second position functioned,they would be obligated to do that as well.What they were not obligated to do at thispoint, after they've identified available positions,overridden any arbitrary rules that say, you know, somepeople can't have that position, altered the position, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC they then consider whether there's any good reason not toplace Mr. Barnett in that position and, in the absence ofa good reason, they are required by this provision to doso. At this point, we believe that the better reading ofthe act does not require the employer to override neutralselection criteria wholly unrelated to disability inchoosing among applicants --QUESTION: May I ask, do you mean any neutral --any neutral selection criteria would trump the statute? Say they had a criteria that they used brand new employeesfor certain ticket-selling jobs as a training mechanism,and they always took people who hadn't worked for thecompany for more than days or something, that that wastheir regular practice, would that practice always trumpthe interest of the disability -- disabled person?MR. DELLINGER: Yes. I believe that an employeris entitled, under the statute -- you've got to have agood, neutral reason unrelated to disability, but thebright line --QUESTION: Now you've added the word good. Ithought it only had to be neutral.MR. DELLINGER: I mean good in the sense that ithas to be legitimate, bona fide business reason.QUESTION: Something they always do.MR. DELLINGER: Yes. You've got to, because the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC act requires you to make this appointment, but wherewe --QUESTION: Suppose you have a seniority systemthat's riddled with exceptions.MR. DELLINGER: Where you have a senioritysystem that's riddled with exceptions, it is perfectlyopen to someone who challenges that to say, you don'treally have a neutral policy unrelated to disability.QUESTION: No, no, you do. I mean, here youhappen to have just one exception. Well, suppose therewere five or six, and so the argument would be, well, ifyou can make an exception for the hardship, thecatastrophic illness, for this special situation in thatone, what we want you to do is also make an exception forthe handicapped person.Now, nobody's doubting the employer's goodfaith. The question is, well, why not make na exceptionfor us. You have a lot of others. Let's have a trial onit to see how open to you that is.MR. DELLINGER: The answer to your question is,no, you are not required to do the reassignment merelybecause your seniority policy is one that appliesseniority in some circumstances and not others.QUESTION: All right, then at that point I'dbecome uncertain what exactly -- why we should hold what th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC you want, from my point of view. That is, I can easilysee this act simply requires the employer to actreasonably, and now you could say, where there's alongstanding seniority system, and there's nothing specialabout it, and there are zero or very few exceptions, it'sautomatically a reasonable thing to not stir up enormoustrouble in the workplace by saying, we're going to startmaking exceptions. I could see that. I'm not saying Iagree, but I understand it.But now, why is it, if there are, however, quitea few exceptions, that it isn't even open to thehandicapped person to argue, make another, it's notunreasonable to make another?MR. DELLINGER: Let me preface my answer bysaying that for decades US Airways has had an establishedseniority policy that covers all of these positions, whichhas been regularly followed, with one exception forcatastrophic illnesses and one revision of how youcalculate the time of seniority, so that that issue isnot, you know, raised or put before the Court as towhether you would think that not a good reason.But it seems to me that under -- if you look atthe sequence from the title VII through the RehabilitationAct, through Hardison, the background principle that ourcivil rights laws have simply not restricted the ability th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC of an employer to make a good faith determination abouthow to fill positions, and that nothing in the ADA itselfseems to question that bedrock assumption. That is tosay, no one suggests, though it would be a perfectly --not unduly costly that you need to add positions. Everyone seems to concede and agree that you don't need totransfer an employee to a position that would constitutea, quote, promotion, unquote, even though that might --the employee might be qualified to do that position. Noone suggests that you have to bump an employee who wasactually sitting in a position.Here, what you have is the defeated expectationsunder a seniority system, and if that system is bona fide,the way it works is to allow each employee to determinewhat his or her most important desires are, and that iswhat you gain through seniority. If you lose to --QUESTION: Mr. Dellinger --MR. DELLINGER: Yes.QUESTION: -- one of the reasons that I findthis particular statute puzzling is that it's not liketitle VII. Title VII says, thou shalt not discriminate. It says, you don't prefer -- you don't just redressimbalances. It's a straight nondiscrimination statute.This one isn't. This one is driven by a conceptcalled, reasonable accommodation. It makes reasonable th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC accommodation -- if you don't reasonably accommodate,you're discriminating, and so it seems to me that thisstatute has reasonable accommodation, if it's unduehardship, then it would be unreasonable, but there'snothing like that in title VII. This disabilities actgives a starring role to reasonable accommodation, whichit truly doesn't have in title VII, so to give thateffect, couldn't you look at this and say, well, this manwas already in the job, and no body is going to be out ofwork, so the accommodation is reasonable. If he wereseeking to bump somebody else, it wouldn't be reasonable. Why isn't that an appropriate way to look at this actthat's driven by the idea, reasonable accommodation?MR. DELLINGER: Let me acknowledge that whatmakes this an interesting case is the fact that the ADAdoes go beyond merely prohibiting hostile discrimination,so you're right that there are things that an employeraffirmatively has to do that it doesn't have to do forother employees under this act.The general language of the act, though, in myview is not sufficient to change the landscape thatexisted under the Rehabilitation Act, where the Courts haduniformly held that reassignment was never required. It'snow a possibility, but you're never required.QUESTION: But did the statute have the word, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC reassignment in it, as this one does?MR. DELLINGER: It did not have in it the word,reassignment, but we don't think that that word isintended to change -- in the Hardison case under title VIIit was a reasonable accommodation case, and yet the Courtsaid, no, there's a bright line. We're never -- eventhough the religious part of title VII requires areasonable accommodation, we're never going to requireanother employee to sacrifice his or her standing underthe seniority policy.Now, the other part of your question, I thinkthe question asked by Justice Breyer was, but what if it'sreally reasonable in a particular instance, and here'swhere I need to suggest why that approach is fundamentallyinconsistent with how a seniority system operates. Youare introducing an element of judgment and discretionwhich will unsettle settled expectations in a way that iscompletely unpredictable. What happens is, you simplycan't know what the domino effect will be of substitutingfor a seniority system.This is a system that is now operated by lowerlevel managers who need to keep a posted list where everyemployee knows what the position is. If someone -- itwould be a fundamental alteration of the system to requirethe employer no longer to utilize this neutral basis. For th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC example --QUESTION: I notice that one of the amicusbriefs suggests -- on behalf of labor unions suggests thatthat might well be true if it were the subject ofcollective bargaining and an agreement, but not for anordinary employer plan. Is that how you read the brief?MR. DELLINGER: That is how you read that brief,and I see that is not a distinction which Congress made intitle VII when it chose there to protect seniorityplans,and it is not one that seems to make a great deal ofsense here. That is, in many States, in spite of thelanguage put in by US Airways, in many States theprovisions of a company plan are legally enforceable incourt.Moreover, I don't think there's any intent onCongress to weigh in on the question of whether theworkforce should be unionized or not unionized by givingthe disabled lesser rights --QUESTION: Then if that's true, then whatmeaning do we give to reasonable accommodation in the ADA?MR. DELLINGER: I think what reasonableaccommodation --QUESTION: It has to be something different, Iassume, than undue hardship, because that's a separatedefense. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. DELLINGER: Undue hardship, that's right,really goes to cost on an employer. I think thereasonable accommodation language here requires anemployer to take affirmative steps to try to enable aperson with a disability to continue in the workplace, andin particular with respect to reassignments, to look forvacant places to make second job accommodatable, forexample, but not to cross a very major line --QUESTION: But in a situation where theemployer's policy is just to create open positions everyquarter, that aren't enforceable anyway on behalf of anyemployee, is it unreasonable to say the employer has toaccommodate this disabled worker?MR. DELLINGER: Yes, it is unreasonable for thefollowing reason. The reassignment, the sort of quarterlydeclaration of vacancy to which you refer is simply how asystem operates where every employee accumulates seniorityand then gets to choose the position and the shift, sothat if you gain seniority, you get enough, you say thankgoodness I can now get off the graveyard shift, I can goon the swing shift or the day shift position, I've gainedall of this, and that is rebid every quarter. Peoplerebid on positions, and that seems like a perfectlyreasonable thing to do.It is a -- there's nothing -- what is the bright th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC line, I think, here is that Congress has -- would havefought long and debated hard before it took the major stepof saying an employer could not, at the end of the day,once all accommodations had been made, choose a person fora position based on who was the best-qualified or who wasthe most senior.Now, let me say again what --QUESTION: Your argument for that, as Iunderstand it, is the argument that you've repeated in acouple, or your claim that you've repeated in a couple ofinstances that there would be something fundamentallyunhinging to the seniority system to allow a disabilitiesexception, and that seems to me in part sort of anempirical question.I mean, if a company like yours was going tohave disability exceptions a month at every terminal,yes, I can see it, but is there any reason to believe thatthe magnitude of the possible disabilities exceptionsunder reasonable accommodation would be so great as tohave that kind of cataclysmic effect on the generalreliance that employees can place on seniority?MR. DELLINGER: Justice Souter, that is a goodquestion that I think would go to whether it was an unduehardship.QUESTION: Well, it would go to that, but th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC wouldn't it -- you know, it would go to --MR. DELLINGER: But here, on the question ofunreasonableness, I think we're looking at a question ofprinciple. As Judge Posner said in the Seventh Circuitdecision, it is a difference not just of cost but ofprinciple, and here the principle at stake is the interestof other employees, so --QUESTION: There's no question, to the extent ofthe exceptions, their interest is going to be discountedin some way.MR. DELLINGER: And even -- even though we don'tknow the numbers, because we don't know ultimately howbroadly the court will interpret the phrase, disability,which you have sub judice in other cases, and even themwould take some working out. We don't know the numbers,but we do know how it would disrupt the expectations ofemployees.Here, for example, even though we have a brightline rule -- we have a bright line rule with promotions. Even though promotions are a reassignment to a vacantposition, you never have to promote, and that's becausethere's a good reason, it is thought, that promotions arenot a reasonable accommodation. There's an even betterreason, in my view, not to trump the rights and interestsof other employees who have earned a right to a position, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC and to try to look, as several of you have in questions,as to whether it might be reasonable in a particularinstance, I don't know how you place this burden onmanagers in a system that is a seniority system to makethose complex social judgments not knowing what the dominoeffect is. You could have --QUESTION: Well, one thing is easy to see isthat if you bump somebody, it's no good. That's notreasonable. If somebody, as in this case, is already inthe job, you let that person remain in the job, so it'snot as though every exercise of seniority rights is ofequal magnitude. If somebody is trying to bid for thatjob and some senior person otherwise would be laid off,then you say it's unreasonable, but here there isn't sucha situation.MR. DELLINGER: That could well be. We don'tknow what the effect is, because someone will be bumped ifthey don't get their desired position. For example --QUESTION: I thought we know on the facts ofthis case that it's only a question of, that nobody isgoing to be bumped. The question is whether he stays inthat job. There were jobs he could have done in cargo, ifhe weren't disabled.MR. DELLINGER: We don't know what theconsequences will be, because what Mr. Barnett is th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC asking -- and this is from his declaration, which is notin the joint appendix, but is at page of his declarationof February , he says, the intent and potential effectof my request was to have the employee who is going todisplace me in the mailroom go around me and bump the nextless senior position.You could have the following situation. Youcould have the person who's claiming the job in themailroom could be an older single parent who's finallyworked out child care arrangements and is entitled byseniority to the mailroom position, but who finds out,when, though she is senior in position, or he is senior inposition, that Mr. Barnett is insulated from the normaloperations system, would have to bump the next positiondown, which might well be a graveyard shift position, or aposition in cargo, which the person was too old to handlethe effects of, so you simply --QUESTION: What it boils down to, though, is, Ithink as Justice Ginsburg is suggesting, it means that noone can bump up, but it doesn't mean that anybody getsbumped down, and that, there's a -- I mean, she suggeststhere's a qualitative difference between those two.MR. DELLINGER: And I think we don't know that,Justice --QUESTION: Well, why don't we know that as a th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC matter of logic?MR. DELLINGER: Because it could well be thatthe more senior employee who needs to be in the mailroom,she needs -- her position is being eliminated. She needsto be in the mailroom, which has a day shift. She'ssenior and entitled to it. She can't get it. The nextsenior position, which she has to take, could be agraveyard shift, or a graveyard shift in cargo. She mightnot be able to work --QUESTION: That's true, but it's still the factthat we know that the effect of following JusticeGinsburg's suggestion is that no extra person gets bumpeddown. It's merely that one person doesn't bump up andbump the disabled employee down. That we can say withcertainty, can't we?MR. DELLINGER: It may well be in many instancesthe bottom-most person will lose their job, and it couldbe that the more senior person would get a job thatthey -- that doesn't work out for them.QUESTION: But that's going to be a wash nomatter how it works.MR. DELLINGER: Not necessarily.QUESTION: If you have zero-sum -- I mean, ifyou have a finite number of employees and you're layingsomebody off, that's -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. DELLINGER: Under our plan, it won't be thatmore people will lose jobs, or get their less desiredaccommodation. It will be that the more senior employeesdo not get the position to which they are entitled, whichfor complex reasons may be very important to them.I'll reserve the remainder of my time.QUESTION: Very well, Mr. Dellinger.Ms. Center, we'll hear from you.ORAL ARGUMENT OF CLAUDIA CENTERON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTMS. CENTER: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court:There are four points that must be made in thiscase. First of all, the petitioner's proposed definitionof the term, reasonable accommodation, as meaning fair,proper, fit, appropriate, not extreme, not excessive, etcetera, et cetera, must be rejected, because thatconstruction eviscerates all of the statutory defenses, iscontrary to all of the regulations, and it is contrary tothe listed reasonable accommodations, includingreassignment.Second, the term reasonable accommodation in theADA means a modification that enables the disabledemployee to participate that is reasonable to the disabledemployee. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Third, even if you --QUESTION: You're -- stopping you at the secondpoint, there, so from your point of view, reasonablerelates only to its effect on the employee, not on anybodyelse?MS. CENTER: That's correct.Third, even if you disagree with my proposal forthe definition of reasonable accommodation, the term mustinclude the listed reasonable accommodations. Where itsays reasonable accommodations may include, thoseaccommodations listed, which include reassignment to avacant position, are reasonable accommodations bydefinition.QUESTION: But the statute says may include. Itdoesn't say must include. Your definition says mustinclude?MS. CENTER: The may include relates to thecase-by-case individualized analysis that must take place. All of the accommodations won't be necessary in everycases. The may include relates to the specific needs ofthe specific individual employee.And finally, reassignment to a vacant positionmeans an actual reassignment to a job that is notcurrently occupied or that has not already been filled.QUESTION: Would you -- Ms. Center, why is it -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC it has been conceded, I gather -- you didn't contest thisanyway, in your brief, that reasonable accommodation wouldnever include appointment to a promotion to a more -- aposition that pays slightly more, even though the amountit pays more is negligible, so it's not -- you know, it'snot a hardship on the employer. Why is that?MS. CENTER: Well, I think there are severalreasons that the agency, the EEOC has come to thatconclusion, which I agree with. First of all, the listedaccommodation is reassignment to a vacant position. Congress did not say promotion, and reassignment describesa lateral transfer, ordinarily.QUESTION: Well, but this is a vacant higherposition. They didn't exclude that. This is a vacantposition at a higher level. Why wouldn't that beincluded?MS. CENTER: Further, the EEOC regulationsexplain that the purpose of the reasonable accommodationis to enable the disabled employee to enjoy the privilegesof employment along with similarly situated disable -­nondisabled employees, to enjoy equal benefits, and ifthere's a promotion it's sort of -- it's contrary to thatprinciple.QUESTION: Oh, but so is what you're urginghere, this -- you're ending up giving the person here th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC seniority rights, which exceed those of other employeeswho have been there a certain amount of time.MS. CENTER: Well, in this case the job that Mr.Barnett ended up with was equal in terms of, a) he wouldhave been employed, and b) at the same pay and, et cetera,the same level --QUESTION: I understand, but --MS. CENTER: -- as he would have gotten but forhis disability.QUESTION: But you can't urge that your systemassures that the disabled not be given any benefits thatother employees would not get. You're giving him abenefit that they wouldn't get. They wouldn't be allowedto stay in that job, so why can't you do the same thingfor a promotion?I mean, the other side has a criterion. Theircriterion is, it is -- reasonable accommodation is limitedto accommodation to the disability, so you provide himwith a working space that will accommodate the fact thathe can't stand up for too long, or you put him in anotherjob at the same level that's vacant which doesn't requirehim to stand up. All of this accommodates the disability,they say.Whereas the accommodation you're urging here hasnothing to do with accommodating the disability. It has th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC to do with, I don't know, giving him a different job.MS. CENTER: Right, the accommodation is --QUESTION: They have a criterion. I don'tunderstand what your criterion is, except, you know, dowhat is reasonable. Why isn't it reasonable to promotethe disabled person if it -- it just costs a few morebucks. That's the only vacant job left. It's nothardship to the employer, so promote him. Why isn't thatreasonable?MS. CENTER: Well, it's -- in addition to thereasons I already gave you, the agency has construedreassignment to a vacant position to not includepromotion, and --QUESTION: Well, never mind the agency. Maybethe agency was unreasonable.(Laughter.)MS. CENTER: In this case, though, theaccommodation that Mr. Barnett sought was not moreseniority. The accommodation was reassignment to a vacantposition and not --QUESTION: I'm not talking about him, though. I'm asking for your theory of the case. What is it thatmakes an assignment not reasonable, or an accommodationnot reasonable?MS. CENTER: An accommodation -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: Once you cut it loose fromaccommodating the disability, which is what the other sidewants to do, once you cut it loose from that, why isn'teverything up for grabs, including a promotion?MS. CENTER: It's not cut loose from thedisability. The reasonable accommodation has to be made,by the clear a statutory language has to be made to thephysical or mental limitations of the disabled employee. Here, the reassignment enabled Mr. Barnett to retain --would have enabled Mr. Barnett to retain his employment. It was because of his disability that he was unable toperform the job that he was relegated to when thepositions were put up for bid, so it was through hisdisability --QUESTION: Well, it can -- it can be areasonable accommodation. The question is, is he entitledto it in the face of an employer's seniority plan thatwould put somebody else there instead?MS. CENTER: Well, I think that he --QUESTION: I think that's the question.MS. CENTER: Well, there are -- I think he isentitled to that reasonable accommodation if all otherpossibilities are exhausted. If all of the prerequisitesare met for reassignment, such as there is a vacancy, thedisabled employee is qualified, and no statutory defense th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC such as undue hardship applies, I think he is entitled tothe reassignment.QUESTION: Even though some other employee onthe basis of greater seniority than the respondents underthe plan could take that slot?MS. CENTER: Yes. I think he's entitled to thatslot at that point.QUESTION: And you don't equate that with thesituation of a promotion?MS. CENTER: No, it's not a promotion. It's alateral transfer.QUESTION: Let me be sure of one thing. Thecase arises on a summary judgment, and I thought the courtof appeals held that you were entitled to a trial, notthat you were entitled to summary judgment. Are youclaiming you are entitled to summary judgment?MS. CENTER: No, I'm -- I think that theemployer is free to try and present a defense to our claimof failure to accommodate. Their defense would be unduehardship, or one of the other statutory defenses.QUESTION: Does reasonableness go the jury, oris there a jury, do you think?MS. CENTER: There would be a jury. I think inthis case because reasonable accommodation -- becausereassignment is one of the listed reasonable th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC accommodations, the judge could state that reassignment isa reasonable accommodation, but if you disagree with my,you know, construction of reasonable accommodation, thenit could go to the jury, I suppose.QUESTION: In your summary judgment proceeding,did you challenge, at all, the employer's description ofthe seniority system?MS. CENTER: Yes, there was a challenge to thatdescription.QUESTION: I didn't see it. That is, as far asI could see there's an affidavit on the employer's side,and Rule (e) requires you to point to specific, youknow, record evidence or affidavits, et cetera. I didn'tsee any.MS. CENTER: Well, there wasn't -- I -- maybe Imisunderstood the question, but there was in the record aneffort to point out that they had made exceptions to theseniority system, that they had amended it --QUESTION: As far as I could tell, what I haveto assume about the system is that it's widespread, it'slongstanding, it governs , employees, the onlyexception is an exception for catastrophic medicaltransfer, and the -- they say, I guess we have to take itas given, that it would require your view would require USAir to weigh and balance conflicting claims and personal th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC desires of all US Air agents, and it would interfere with,I guess, the alternative child care arrangements,educational endeavors, and the ability of other, the otheremployees to continue working for the company.Now, those seem to me the facts. I didn't seeany refutation of them --MS. CENTER: There are additional facts --QUESTION: -- and therefore I assume, forsummary judgment purposes, I take those as a given, and ifI'm not supposed to, I'd like to know right now.MS. CENTER: There are additional facts, inaddition to the catastrophic illness exception there is asignificant modification to how to calculate furloughseniority. There is a change from department seniority tocompany seniority. In addition, as the petitioner hasconceded, the personnel policy guide containing theseniority policy states on its face that it's not acontract, it's merely a --QUESTION: No, that's given. I assume it's not.MS. CENTER: And the grievance procedure, whereby employees would bring these seniority matters to thecompany's attention, that grievance procedure says, you'renot allowed to grieve something that's required by Federallaw, and we get to decide what's required, so in thatcircumstance it seems to me not reasonable for an employee th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC to believe that the job assignment policy is going totrump a legitimate need for reasonable accommodation undera Federal law.QUESTION: Given that statement, to get tothis -- what I think of anyway as the heart of thismatter, assuming I don't accept your view of reasonableaccommodation, assuming that I accept the view thatreasonableness includes the interest of other workers andperhaps the interest of management as well, all right,given that view of it, when you come up with thecharacteristics that I've mentioned and that you added to,why isn't it reasonable for the employer to say, look, ifI give this person the job, there's an alternative chain Ihave to bump that really causes disruption in the company. It throws everything up for grabs.I can't enforce a seniority system under thatkind of regime, but even if I could, all these otherworkers here are going to be disrupted, too, and that'swhat makes my seniority system reasonable in thecircumstance. Now, your reply to that is precisely what?MS. CENTER: The sort of domino effect has beenvastly overstated by this case by the petitioner. Theactual impact of this sort of accommodation in this caseand in other cases is to permit the disabled individual tohave one assignment, and then replacing, on the list of th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC possible jobs for people to bid on, replacing thatassignment would be the job that the person left, so eachreassignment leaves a vacancy to be put on the list ofjobs --QUESTION: I don't understand that part of youranswer, though I want to hear the rest, because if thereare , jobs missing, then it will be , people atthe end of the day without a job, and either you go downone chain and bump, bump, bump, bump, bump, or you go downa different chain and bump, bump, bump, bump, bump. Theharm is precisely the same. It's a question of whichpeople suffer it, so I don't see why there isn't a dominoeffect. It's this chain, or that chain.MS. CENTER: Right, but in terms of theparticular chain, there's a list of jobs upon which thenondisabled employees can bid, and those would include allof the jobs that remain vacant after the reassignment, aswell as the job that the disabled individual left, so theactual impact is modest. It's removing one job on thelist and adding a different job on the list.QUESTION: Well, isn't it like musical chairs ina way? I mean, someone is going to lose out to thedisabled person.MS. CENTER: Someone may get a bob that theywould -- a job where they would have preferred another th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC job.QUESTION: Yes.MS. CENTER: That's correct, but no one wouldlose their job because of the reassignment.QUESTION: Well, it may be a job -- I mean, itdepends. It may be a job that the person can't take, suchas the person who had arranged from child care, andsimply, the only other job available is one that theperson cannot do. I mean, that's possible.Why isn't it -- as I read this statute, I don'tsee anything in it which says that if -- there's plenty init that says we're going to sacrifice some of theconvenience of the employers to the needs of thehandicapped, but I don't see anything in it that sayswe're going to sacrifice the expectations of coworkers tothe handicapped. Why isn't it a perfectly feasiblereading of reasonable accommodation to mean anaccommodation that, among other things, does not defeatthe reasonable expectation of fellow employees?MS. CENTER: Well, you could conclude that, butI think it's -- if you look at the statutory structure, ifyou looked at the list of reasonable accommodations, ifyou look at the governing regulations, all of theseprovisions explain how the equities are weighed in thestatutory -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: What is there in any of them thatshows that Congress envisioned not just putting someburden on the employer, but putting some burden on fellowemployees?MS. CENTER: Well, the --QUESTION: I mean, it mentions vacancy only. Imean, it mentions vacancy because nobody's hurt if there'sa vacancy, but somebody is hurt if there's a vacancy towhich somebody has seniority entitlement.MS. CENTER: Well, the plain language of thestatute requires that the employer provide reasonableaccommodation, and the defense is undue hardship, and sothat's how the statute works. If there's no otherpossible accommodation --QUESTION: Yes, but if I reject that view of thestatute on the one I was taking, I'd still like to knowwhat the response is to what I think is the main point,which is not the domino effect. If I paraphrase it, lifeis very difficult in a big company when you lay off ,people. It's terrible, and the one think that the , the, who remain have to be certain about is that there'sa fair system in place, and once we open it to this kindof argument, well, it's over.Your client has a very bad back. I might thinkthat's somebody that this act should protect, but when we th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC get to the reasonable accommodation stage, at that point,if all those people are in the act, I can't run my system,says the employer, because the claims for specialexemption in the bumping will be endless.Now, your response to that is what?MS. CENTER: Well, if you disagree with ourreading of the term, reasonable accommodation, the termstill would require a case-by-case individualized analysisof whether it was reasonable in this situation, and whatthe petitioner wants is a per se rule for bona fideseniority policies, and that's completely contrary to theway that the statute works, which is case-by-caseanalysis.QUESTION: -- say that your client could bebumped by someone who's more severely handicapped if hewere in that position?MS. CENTER: I think that each of thehandicapped employees would be entitled to reassignment toa vacant position. If my client was in that positionalready, it would not be a vacancy, so it wouldn't beavailable.QUESTION: Well, but I -- it's my understandingthat these positions are deemed open at some point.MS. CENTER: Well I think, then, that the clientwould be -- the more disabled individual would be entitled th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC to reassignment. They both would be entitled toreassignment.QUESTION: Well, that's -- I think you've missedmy point. Why wouldn't that person be as entitled to theposition that your client occupies temporarily, when as apart of his or her reassignment or accommodation,reasonable accommodation?MS. CENTER: There could be conflicting requestsfor accommodation, that's correct.QUESTION: Would that person be entitled to thatposition --MS. CENTER: There would be a number of waysto --QUESTION: -- using your argument?MS. CENTER: I don't believe that the moredisabled employee would be entitled to bump the less-disabled employee. I think that --QUESTION: Why?MS. CENTER: Why? Because the employee thatneeds the accommodation continues to need theaccommodation. The other employee also needs theaccommodation.QUESTION: But you could say that about thepeople who have the job in the first instance, couldn'tyou? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MS. CENTER: Excuse me.QUESTION: The person who had that position andhad his or her life worked out, day care, et cetera, etcetera, also needed that position.MS. CENTER: That's correct.QUESTION: So the argument's the same.MS. CENTER: But the argument is that there's aFederal law in this case that requires reasonableaccommodation, including reassignment.QUESTION: Let me ask you this. What is yourclient's disability?MS. CENTER: He has a back impairment.QUESTION: What does that mean?MS. CENTER: He has an orthopedic disability. He has pain, he has problems in his disks.QUESTION: Has it been established that he infact qualifies as disabled, or is that something we'rejust assuming arguendo at this stage of the case?MS. CENTER: It's disputed. A summary judgmentmotion was denied on that issue, and so at this point Iimagine we're assuming arguendo.QUESTION: May I ask about a hypothetical that'srunning through my mind. Under your opponent's view, as Iunderstand it, it would be at least theoretically possiblethat the job your client has occupied up to now, and he th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC wants to move because of his disability, would be the jobmost people on the seniority list would want if it wereavailable, but they could nevertheless say they don't haveto accommodate. Am I right on that?MS. CENTER: Could you ask it one more time? I'm sorry.QUESTION: It seems to me theoretically possiblethat he is -- because of his disability, he's leaving ajob that is a very attractive job for a nondisabledperson, and that everybody on the seniority list, if giventhe choice of jobs, would pick his job, that under youropponent's view it would nevertheless -- they couldnevertheless refuse to accommodate him.MS. CENTER: That's correct, and my client, Mr.Barnett's goal is not to get the plum job. Mr. Barnett'sgoal is to get a job that he can do despite hisdisability, so the purpose is not to prefer the disabledemployee. The purpose is to enabled the disabled employeeto retain employment and to accommodate their limitations.QUESTION: But it does have the effect of givinga preference. That whole list of reasonableaccommodations -- let's forget a seniority system. One ofthe accommodations is part-time. Suppose somebody who hasan exhaustion problem, can't work a full day, and thenthere's somebody else who says, but I'm a single mom, and th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC I've got children at home, and they don't have toaccommodate to me, I don't understand it.Your answer is, well, there's a Federal law andit doesn't protect you, but that would create the samekind of friction in the workforce. People feel that they have been disadvantaged for no just reason, so -- but allthose, what the statute lists as reasonableaccommodations, every one of those could adversely affectsomeone who has in that person's view an equally goodreason to get the break. It is a preference system.MS. CENTER: That's correct. The petitionerconcedes that the reasonable accommodation mandaterequires employers to do certain things for disabledemployees that they may choose not to do for nondisabledemployees.QUESTION: Sure, but preferring one -- I mean,giving someone a benefit that someone else doesn't get,such as allowing them to do a certain job sitting downwhen everybody else has to do it standing up, or what-not, that doesn't disadvantage the others. That doesn'tdestroy any of their expectations when they took the job,and the same thing with allowing somebody to work part-time. It doesn't help me any that somebody can work part-time now.Sure, I'm not allowed to do it, just as I'm not th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC allowed to do the job sitting down, but it doesn't hurtme, whereas what happens here is that the person who hadan expectation of seniority entitlement to a certain jobhas been frustrated in that expectation. It seems to methat's quite different. I mean, we're not talking aboutwhether one employee can be preferred over another. Certainly, the disabled employee can be.But the question is whether it's a reasonableaccommodation when it requires you to harm anotheremployee in that employee's job or in that employee'slegitimate expectations, and I think that's really what'sat issue here, whether it's just the employer that's goingto be inconvenienced by this statute, or other employeesas well. Why isn't it reasonable to say you cannotdestroy the expectations of other employees? What in thestatute shows that you can?MS. CENTER: Well, it's true that in certaincases providing the reassignment to a vacant position endsup giving a priority to the employee over a nondisabledemployee. That can happen, but that's not the purpose ofthe accommodation. The purpose of the accommodation is toenable the disabled employee to retain their employment,which directly serves the vocational and the equalitygoals of the act, and the reverse --QUESTION: Yes, but to the extent that you think th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC reasonable, the word reasonable and reasonableaccommodation requires what happens to other employees aswell as a result of the accommodation, then you have adifferent question. If you approach it the way you do,that it refers only to what's reasonable for the disabledperson, that's different, so we have to decide whatreasonable accommodation really means, don't we?MS. CENTER: And if you do decide thatreasonable takes into account other employees, in thiscase the equities really favor Mr. Barnett, because Mr.Barnett is the one that faced job loss. The person whocame in and bid on Mr. Barnett's job had no compellingneed for the job. He was perfectly able to continue doinghis existing job, and Mr. Barnett, by contrast, becausethe accommodation was denied, became inevitablyunemployed, so the equities will frequently favor thedisabled employee who faces job loss, even if you pull outreasonable separately like that.QUESTION: I hate to belabor the point, Ms.Center, but the more disabled employee, someone who'sseverely disabled, if that person has to be accommodatedand we only have to look at that person's needs in makingour reasonableness determination, I don't understand whyyour client can't be bumped if he were in that position.MS. CENTER: If you pulled out reasonable? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: And only -- and you limited thatdetermination to the disabled person who has to beaccommodated.MS. CENTER: Well, if you pulled out reasonablein that way, I think there'd be a difficulty arguing itwould be reasonable to disrupt another effectiveaccommodation that's already in place. It might bereasonable to do some other things --QUESTION: But that's -- then your argument isonly different in -- slightly from the argument that youhave to take into consideration the disruption that'scaused in others' lives when you disrupt the senioritysystem.MS. CENTER: Well, I think that the disruption,as we state in our brief, can be considered in the unduehardship defense. It's a detailed defense that's draftedto consider all of these factors.QUESTION: Well, could we consider thedisruption to your client in the undue hardship category?MS. CENTER: No. I think the disruption to myclient in the job loss is the harm that results from thefailure to accommodate.QUESTION: But aren't you saying that in thecase that Justice Thomas poses you do consider thedisruption to your client as well as the interest of the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC more --MS. CENTER: Correct. I misunderstood.QUESTION: Okay. Then why don't you do thatacross the board? In other words, why doesn't -- whyshouldn't -- why don't you have to concede thatreasonableness always takes into consideration theinterest of other employees?MS. CENTER: Because I think that's contrary tothe structure of the statute. I think it's contrary tothe description of reasonable accommodations. It'scontrary to the regulations.QUESTION: Yes, but can you find any textualbasis in the statute that says when you're dealing withcomparative interests of two disabled people you considerthe interests of both in determining what is reasonable,but when you're considering the comparative interests of adisabled person and others, you don't consider both?MS. CENTER: I was --QUESTION: Is there any textual basis for that?MS. CENTER: Perhaps I'm still misunderstanding,but I was answering the question assuming that my readingof the statute was rejected and that we were looking atequities in the word reasonable.QUESTION: I see. You weren't conceding -- allright, just for argument. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MS. CENTER: Yes.QUESTION: Do I misunderstand? I thought youhad agreed earlier that it would never be reasonable tobump another employee.MS. CENTER: That's correct.QUESTION: Okay. So you're always talking abouttransfer to a vacant position. I don't understand thecompetition between two disabled persons. Each of themhas to be given a vacant job. If the job's alreadyfilled, it doesn't matter whether it's filled by anotherdisabled person or by a perfectly healthy person.MS. CENTER: That's correct. It will often, Ithink, just be the chronology, who requests accommodationfirst, who gets reassigned, and then you go on to the nextdisabled employee if there is one and deal with theiraccommodation.QUESTION: And the reason you can't bump anotheremployee is that that's unreasonable, is that --MS. CENTER: No. The reason is that theaccommodation listed is reassignment to a vacant position,and that vacant language was put in there to preventbumping an occupied position, bumping an individual.QUESTION: Well, if you -- what you've said,you're making of this statute in this respect somethingdifferent from, in title VII, where you have past proven th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC discrimination, so the employer may have to give a remedy,that remedy may adversely affect other people, and thecalculus that the Court has to make is, yes, they can behurt, but not too much, and isn't that exactly what isgoing on here?If we reject your client-centered interpretationof reasonable, it's just the same thing. Nondiscrimination, this statute goes beyondnondiscrimination. It requires reasonable accommodation. What's reasonable? Of course, you always have to takeinto account the interests of other people.MS. CENTER: That's correct. If we -- if theCourt rejects my view of the term, reasonableaccommodation, you'd have to take into account all ofthose considerations, but you could not adopt, I don'tbelieve, the per se rule suggested by the petitioner thatneutral, you know, selection criteria are always going totrump the ADA.For example, your part-time working scenario,that could be eliminated by a neutral rule that no one canwork less than full-time, so that can't be the rule. Ifit's reasonable, pulled out and looked at in the differentcriteria, then it has to be case-by-case. It can't simplybe deference to a neutral selection criteria.QUESTION: When I got the case by case, I look th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC at the record here, and it doesn't seem to me as if yourclient wants to prove anything. They'll accept what theother side says about it as we discussed, and then we justhave to decide in this case, is that enough or not. Isthat right?MS. CENTER: Well, I think there are a number ofitems in the record that show that the actual disruptionto the employer, as well as the impact on other employees,would have been extremely modest, and that retaining Mr.Barnett in the job he'd been successfully performing foryears was -- would have been an entirely reasonableaccommodation, if you want to pull out reasonable.QUESTION: It's not a matter of proof. We're atthe pretrial stage.MS. CENTER: Well, that's true, and there'scertainly sufficient evidence under Reeves for our clientto have a trial on that issue, should --QUESTION: Thank you. Thank you, Ms. Center.MS. CENTER: Thank you.QUESTION: Mr. Dellinger, you have minutesremaining.REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF WALTER E. DELLINGER, IIION BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERMR. DELLINGER: Mr. Chief Justice, when it comesto filling positions, which is fundamentally different, I th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC think, than adding other elements, there's nothinganomalous about a per se rule, nor is that inconsistentwith giving individualized considerations. The rehab actand title VII both said that you don't displace senioritysystems.In Hardison v. TWA, this Court did not say youhave to ask whether the more senior employee's reason forneeding the Saturday off was either trivial or serious. When it comes to positions, there is a good reason forletting the more senior employee choose the more desirableposition. I don't think either the line managers or theNinth Circuit engaging in an individual case-by-caseassessment could possibly make that a workable system.The notion that there's no one who's going to behurt reduces to this, that when the more senior employeeclaims the position under the regular operation of thestatute, their response is to say, well, that more senioremployee can always go and be a cargo handler on the nightshift. We don't know that. We don't know if that wouldwork.In effect what you're doing when you promotesomebody to a greater seniority priority is that you arepromoting, and we do know that however reasonable it mightbe in a particular case, if you did an intensive case-by-case thing to say, why don't we promote this person to the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC secretarial supervisor, that itself is never required,because we think that in a sense you're really going tolose your way in trying to manage a company if you moveaway from bedrock proposition that an employer is neverrequired to choose the less-qualified or the less-seniorperson once they've made all the other accommodations. That would be a major social change.There is an argument that someone who loses oneposition because of a disability ought to have a priorityclaim for another position even over someone who is morequalified or more senior for it. That would be a majorpolicy change that we -- for which there are arguments forand against. The Congress --CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: Thank you, Mr.Dellinger.MR. DELLINGER: Thank you.CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: The case is submitted.(Whereupon, at : p.m., the case in theabove-entitled matter was submitted.) th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC 