 IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XHOFFMAN PLASTIC COMPOUNDS, INC., :Petitioner :v. : No. -NATIONAL LABOR RELATIONS BOARD :- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XWashington, D.C.Tuesday, January , The above-entitled matter came on for oralargument before the Supreme Court of the United States at: a.m.APPEARANCES:RYAN D. McCORTNEY, ESQ., Costa Mesa, California; on behalfof the Petitioner.PAUL R. Q. WOLFSON, ESQ., Assistant to the SolicitorGeneral, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; onbehalf of the Respondent. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC C O N T E N T SORAL ARGUMENT OF RYAN D. McCORTNEY, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioner ORAL ARGUMENT OFPAUL R. Q. WOLFSON, ESQ.On behalf of the Respondent PAGE th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC P R O C E E D I N G S(: a.m.)CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: We'll hear argumentnow in Number -, Hoffman Plastic Compounds, Inc. v.The National Labor Relations Board.Mr. McCortney.ORAL ARGUMENT OF RYAN D. McCORTNEYON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERMR. McCORTNEY: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court:The issue in this case is whether the award ofback pay to an undocumented alien who never was legallypresent or legally authorized to work in this countryconflicts with this Court's holding in Sure-Tan or withthis country's immigration laws and policies.In Sure-Tan, this Court held that thediscriminatees in that case must be deemed unavailable forwork and the accrual of back pay therefore tolled duringany period when they were not lawfully entitled to bepresent and employed in the United States.The Sure-Tan Court's back pay limitation isconsistent with INA's dual requirement that to be employedin this country an alien must be both legally present andlegally authorized to work. Despite this dualrequirement, the board contends that Castro is entitled to th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC back pay even though he never was legally present orlegally authorized to work during the back pay period.The fatal flaw in the board's position lies inits adherence to its physical availability doctrine. Theboard contends that this Court denied back pay to thediscriminatees in Sure-Tan only because they had left thecountry and were physically unavailable for work. If theboard is right, the Sure-Tan discriminatees could haveillegally reentered the country to establish physicalpresence and to commence the accrual of back pay. However, such reentry would violate the immigration lawsof this country and be contrary to this Court's holding inSure-Tan.QUESTION: Have the immigration laws changed atall in any relevant respects since our decision in Sure-Tan?MR. McCORTNEY: Yes, Your Honor, the passage ofIRCA in .QUESTION: And what relevant changes did IRCAmake?MR. McCORTNEY: IRCA was an amendment to the INAthat made the employment, the knowing employment ofundocumented aliens unauthorized from the employer'sperspective.QUESTION: And is it correct that when Sure-Tan th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC was argued, IRCA, if that's the way you pronounce it, wasbeing considered by Congress and the Government in itsargument told us that if IRCA had been passed, back paywould not be available?MR. McCORTNEY: That's correct, Your Honor.Recognizing, as it must, that this Court inSure-Tan conditioned the accrual of back pay on legalpresence, the board contends that the Sure-Tan Courtsought only to deter the discriminatees from illegallyreentering this country to claim back pay.QUESTION: Well, when you say conditioned it onlegal presence, I mean, in fact they were not present. Imean, the people in that case were still out of thecountry, weren't they?MR. McCORTNEY: That's correct, Your Honor.QUESTION: So you have to acknowledge that itwas dictum.MR. McCORTNEY: Well, Your Honor, I would notcall it dicta only because the Court set forth theconditions upon which the discriminatees might receiveback pay if they were to legally reenter the country.QUESTION: That's right, but it only had to sayone condition in order to decide the case. Namely, youhad to be in the country, and it went on to say, and inaddition you have to be available to work, but that is th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC really unnecessary to the decision.MR. McCORTNEY: Well, the threshold conditionwas legal reentry, and that was the starting point of theanalysis. If they were to reenter, then of course theywould have to establish at the back pay hearing --QUESTION: Mr. McCortney --MR. McCORTNEY: -- legal authorization to work.QUESTION: If that is so, then why did the Courtmake the comment on page of the opinion infootnote , talking about the board has said it will makeit an arbitrary number of weeks, and the Court said theboard has never attempted to impose a back pay award thatthe employer must pay regardless of the actual evidence asto such issues as the employee's availability to work? All of that would have been unnecessary if it were justthis blanket rule, right?MR. McCORTNEY: Well, Your Honor, I think infootnote what the Court was addressing was the minimumback pay award of months that the court of appeals hadimposed and the board had adopted, and then the boardtried to defend that award by arguing that it had in othercases had estimates of back pay, despite the fact that thediscriminatee was unable to establish with any certaintythe probable length of the back pay period.I think the Court there was simply saying that, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC look, you don't even go so far as to provide any showingof proof as to how long these discriminatees would haveworked before their apprehension by the INS, but we don'tread that to mean that had those discriminatees in Sure-Tan remained in the country, that they would have beenentitled to back pay, because they wouldn't have beenlegally present and legally authorized to work.QUESTION: Well, if the opinion in Sure-Tan wethink equivocal, if it's a wash either way, what is yourprincipal argument for reversal here?MR. McCORTNEY: Assuming that Sure-Tan isequivocal?QUESTION: Yes.MR. McCORTNEY: That the board's award of backpay conflicts with the immigration laws and policies ofthis country as embodied in the INA and IRCA.QUESTION: Well, what do you say the argumentthat the board makes that even if the dictum in Sure-Tanwere a holding as you say it should be treated, that thestatute has changed the landscape, and that the board'srule in effect is in aid of the statute, because the boardis saying the illegality on the part of the employer comeswhen the employer knowingly employs these people despiteknowledge of their illegal character, so in effect we'regoing to say that the obligation to pay back pay stops th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC when the employer knows that the alien in fact isillegally there.Up to that point, however, we're going to followa different policy. We're going to make the employer payback pay because otherwise we would make it very easy foremployers. We would, in fact, create an inducement foremployers to ignore the law by, in effect, winking atillegality on the part of the workers, so the board issaying, sure, the statute changed the legal landscape evenon your reading of Sure-Tan, and we've come up with whatseems to be a sensible way of implementing it. What isyour response to that?MR. McCORTNEY: Your Honor, just the mereprospect of receiving back pay in this case encouragedCastro to extend his illegal stay by more than years andto continue using --QUESTION: Well, I think you're right, but theboard is saying, yes, there's that inducement on one side,but there's a very powerful employer inducement if we comeout the other way, and although I don't think the boardput it in these words, I take it the board is saying, wethink the employers are going to make a rational decisionabout inducements more clearly or more obviously thanemployees, the illegal aliens might do, so we're going toprefer the inducement or the policy that is going to have th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC the strongest effect on the employers. Isn't that apermissible choice for the board to make?MR. McCORTNEY: No, Your Honor. The board'sauthority here is to enforce the provisions of theNational Labor Relations Act to the extent that they donot conflict with the immigration laws and policies ofthis country, and --QUESTION: But the board is saying we can't haveit both ways. No matter which way we go, something we dowould provide an inducement to violate the immigrationlaws. We think probably the best way to get where we wantto go is to concentrate on inducements on the employer.MR. McCORTNEY: Your Honor, I don't believe thatthose, the deterrence of the employer to -- that knowinglyhires illegal aliens or employs them, that awarding backpay is necessary in light of the sanctions under IRCA thatnow subject employers that do so to civil and criminalsanctions, and so --QUESTION: Wouldn't it also be the case that ifthe employer, by reason of this inducement, hired --supposed inducement -- hired somebody whom he knew at thetime of the hiring to be an unlawful, an illegal alien, even applying the board's rule, he wouldn't have to payany back pay.MR. McCORTNEY: That's correct, Your Honor. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: What is -- here -- I think JusticeSouter is -- we said in our cases just what Justice Soutersaid, I take it, INS v. Lopez-Mendoza, quoting what Sure-Tan says. An employer can be guilty of an unfair laborpractice in his dealings with an alien, notwithstandingthe alien's illegal presence in this country. You agreewith that. Retrospective sanctions against the employermay accordingly be imposed by the board to further thepublic policy against unfair labor practices.Now, those -- that's what the Court said. Now,this is a retrospective policy, a retrospective sanctionof a compromise variety only for the period where theemployer is not committing any labor law, any immigrationlaw violation in order to further the labor policy. Whydoesn't this fit within the two sentences that I justdescribed?MR. McCORTNEY: Because --QUESTION: And if this doesn't, what would?MR. McCORTNEY: Your Honor, what it doesn'taddress is the violation of the INA.QUESTION: I'm sorry. What the Court said inthe sentences I read is, retrospective -- I take it,retrospective sanctions can be assessed by the board.Now, are we -- now, I want to know, if theycan't do this, what can they do retrospectively, or is the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC sentence I just read you by this Court wrong?MR. McCORTNEY: Your Honor, I think what thesentence means, at least my reading of it, is thatretrospective sanctions may be imposed, but notnecessarily, and --QUESTION: Fine.QUESTION: What other rules are there, iswhat -- what other retrospective sanctions are there?QUESTION: Yes. Yes, that's correct. Thankyou.QUESTION: Can the board fine the employer?MR. McCORTNEY: No, Your Honor.QUESTION: What else can the board do to punishthe employer for the unfair labor practice?MR. McCORTNEY: A cease and desist order, as inthis case, with the threat of contempt sanctions.QUESTION: That's a prospective --QUESTION: I would have called that prospective.QUESTION: -- sanction, isn't it?MR. McCORTNEY: Yes.QUESTION: So you really don't have anyexplanation for that language.MR. McCORTNEY: All I would say, Your Honor, isthat --QUESTION: Which is, I suppose your explanation th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC is that that's as much dictum as your opponent says Sure-Tan was.MR. McCORTNEY: That's correct, Your Honor.QUESTION: So it's a wash, right?QUESTION: Well, if that's the explanation, Itake it that Sure-Tan was dealing with a case where theemployer did know in respect to the sanction that theemployee, the alien, was illegal, so Sure-Tan did notconsider the kind of sanction here at issue, which is asanction that applies only to the period where theemployer did not know that the employee was an illegal,hence the employer was not violating the immigration law.MR. McCORTNEY: It still doesn't address, YourHonor, the fact that the illegal presence and the use offraudulent documents and working without authorization isa violation of the INA.QUESTION: Is it unlawful? That's the questionI was going to ask you. Is -- under the immigration laws,is it only the employer who is violating the law when hehires, with knowledge, an illegal alien, or is it also thecase that an illegal alien who deceives an employer byproviding a false green card and who then draws pay whenhe's illegally in the country, is that unlawful?MR. McCORTNEY: Yes, Your Honor.QUESTION: Now, I know -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: I thought --QUESTION: -- the use of the green card is, butis the working and getting pay unlawful under theimmigration laws?MR. McCORTNEY: Yes, it is.QUESTION: I thought IRCA itself enacted aprovision making it illegal for aliens to provide falsedocumentation to get employment. That wasn't in the lawwhen Sure-Tan was decided, was it?MR. McCORTNEY: Yes, it was, Your Honor. Infact, let me just explain that U.S.C. was alreadyon the books, that prohibited the use of fraudulentdocuments for immigration purposes, and when IRCA camealong it amended the INA but added (c), which alsoprohibits the use of fraudulent documents to obtainemployment, so at the time that Sure-Tan was decided, youhad the following laws in this case that were violated byMr. Castro, regardless of IRCA: entering a countryillegally in violation of U.S.C. , failing toregister as an alien within days of his entry, aviolation of U.S.C. , using fraudulent documents toobtain employment, a violation of U.S.C. ,remaining in this country illegally and working withoutauthorization, a violation of U.S.C. (a)(), whichwas formerly U.S.C. -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: Now, did IRCA add provisions andimpose obligations on prospective employers to requirethem to review the documents and make sure that theyappear to be regular on their face?MR. McCORTNEY: Yes, Your Honor.QUESTION: And that was a new provision?MR. McCORTNEY: That was a new provision.QUESTION: And is there any allegation in thiscase that the employer failed to comply with that?MR. McCORTNEY: No, Your Honor. It'sundisputed.QUESTION: It's --QUESTION: May I ask if your position wouldapply if this were a violation of the Fair Labor StandardsAct instead of the labor act? If the employer hadunderpaid the employee, would he have a right to back pay?MR. McCORTNEY: Your Honor, I -- in the amicusbrief of the States they seem to equate back pay under theNLRA with back pay under the FLSA when they're twodifferent things. Back pay --QUESTION: I understand they're two different --I just want to know what your position is on that.MR. McCORTNEY: No, we would not advocate atall, and we have not, taking wages away from undocumentedaliens that have been earned for work already performed. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: Even though they -- it was a crime todo any work? Why -- if you're sticking with your theorythat everything that this person did on that job, frompresenting the false documentation on, was unlawful, sowhy should he be paid anything for unlawful activity? You're making a distinction between the Fair LaborStandards Act and the NLRA, but your theory, I think,would cover both.MR. McCORTNEY: Well, Your Honor, we givecertain rights and benefits to undocumented aliens thatare already in this country, and we do that to level theplaying field between undocumented aliens and Americanworkers so that unscrupulous employers won't preferundocumented aliens over American workers.QUESTION: Well, furthermore, just from thestandpoint of equity, I suppose the employer hasbenefitted from the services in the case that JusticeGinsburg puts, and there's --MR. McCORTNEY: Absolutely.QUESTION: -- no benefit here save, arguably,from the illegal labor practice, but there's no benefitfor work received.MR. McCORTNEY: That's absolutely correct, YourHonor. In fact --QUESTION: Would you clarify one thing for me? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. McCORTNEY: Sure.QUESTION: Do I understand that if the employerand the employee both know of the illegality, that thenthere's no back pay?MR. McCORTNEY: Yes, Your Honor.QUESTION: It seems to me that's absolutelyupside down.MR. McCORTNEY: Well, Your Honor --QUESTION: The -- and of course, you don't --this is the Government's position, you don't have todefend it, but in other words, as I understand theGovernment's -- once the employer knows that there's aviolation and continues it, he's no longer liable for backpay. That's a strange calculus.MR. McCORTNEY: Well, Your Honor, that's theproblem with the rule, is that it in some ways rewards theunscrupulous employer in Sure-Tan and penalizes theinnocent employer, as in Hoffman. If the unscrupulousemployer knowingly hires an illegal alien, then wheneversome kind of union organizing drive comes along and saygee, we can get rid of them, and we know they're illegal,and we're going to terminate them, then they can reportthem to the INS right from the outset --QUESTION: Mr. McCortney --QUESTION: Well, the difference is -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. McCORTNEY: -- get him departed, and cut offback pay.QUESTION: The difference is, of course, that ifthe employer knowingly hires this alien, he's subject to alot of other penalties under the immigration law.MR. McCORTNEY: That's correct, Your Honor.QUESTION: Take an employer who, you know, allhe does, he says, I've checked their cards, I've checkedtheir cards, the cards say they're here legally, and heruns some God-awful sweat shop.Now, your theory, there is no remedy under anylaw against that employer but for a prospective remedy,and so everyone gets one bite at that apple.QUESTION: Well, he has to pay for the sweat,though, doesn't he?MR. McCORTNEY: Absolutely.QUESTION: And it's pretty low cost, becausehe's violating every labor law under the sun.QUESTION: If, indeed, the worker, under thisscheme you're proposing, there's no doubt that thedocument -- undocumented alien works, he's going to getpaid for the work.MR. McCORTNEY: Absolutely, Your Honor, nodoubt, and we have never advocated --QUESTION: And in Justice Breyer's hypothetical th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC there's an OSHA violation.MR. McCORTNEY: Could be. There could be anOSHA violation, and we're -- as I said in answer toJudge -- Justice Ginsburg's question, we recognize thatundocumented aliens are given certain rights and benefitsto level the playing field.QUESTION: What about title VII?MR. McCORTNEY: Under title VII, if it's backpay exactly like back pay under the National LaborRelations Act, where it's unearned wages for work notperformed during the back pay period, then that would be aproblem.QUESTION: Suppose the allegation is, they keptme in this entry-level job, although I was qualified forthe next step, because I was a woman and they neverpromote women. That's the charge, and she wants back pay,she wants to be paid at the rate she should have earnedabsent sex discrimination.MR. McCORTNEY: In that situation, Your Honor,if it were discovered that the illegal -- that this personwas an illegal alien --QUESTION: Make it just like this case.MR. McCORTNEY: Then there are other remediesavailable under title VII to effectuate the policies ofthe act and to enforce compliance. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: I'm asking about back pay for titleVII. You said you would treat FLSA differently, and therewould be back pay. Here, title VII, which -- would thatgo -- be bracketed with FLSA, or would it be bracketedwith the NLRA?MR. McCORTNEY: It would be -- if -- in yoursituation, you would get back pay, and let me explain thedifference in this case. The problem with the board'sremedy is that the very nature of the remedy creates aduty to mitigate, which in turn requires and encouragesthe illegal alien to seek interim employment, therebycommitting further and new violations of the immigrationslaw.QUESTION: So in title VII, if she were laidoff, say, because they laid off all the women before theylaid off any men, so she would also have a duty tomitigate in those circumstances, would the result bedifferent?MR. McCORTNEY: No. When there's a duty tomitigate which requires them to seek interim employment,that is where the rub is, but under title VII, under,like, the National Labor Relations Act, there's a wholearray of other remedies available to enforce compliance. Punitive damages, you can -- compensatory damages,emotional distress, that is not dependent on the victims th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC authorization to work in this country.QUESTION: Of course, her complaint, if it werecomplaint, should read something like, you know, Ishouldn't have been working at all, and it was illegal forme to be working at all, and I'm complaining because Ionly got $, in illegal wages. I should have gotten$, in illegal wages. I don't find that a veryappealing case anyway. Do you find that an appealingcase?MR. McCORTNEY: No, Your Honor, I don't. Idon't find that an appealing case.QUESTION: But you just told me that you wouldbracket title VII with the FLSA.MR. McCORTNEY: Yes, because I --notwithstanding Justice Scalia's very good example that Idon't find that appealing, that there is a way that thisCourt can distinguish between the National Labor RelationsAct, which is remedial in nature, and all these otherState and Federal discrimination laws that have punitivefeatures to it that are not dependent on the undocumentedalien's ability to work in this country.QUESTION: Well, I don't have any doubt thatthere are other ways for us to distinguish this, and itmay very well be that if this were an original matter withus we wouldn't have struck the balance where the board th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC did, but you've got the element here, the added elementhere of the board's decision, and I suppose we owe somekind of respect to it. Given the confusion of statutes,the extent to which we owe deference is not, perhaps,clear, but we've got to give some consideration to it,haven't we?MR. McCORTNEY: Well, Your Honor --QUESTION: If I could just supplement that, dowe owe any deference to the views of the Attorney Generalof the United States, who is responsible for enforcingthese -- both statutes?MR. McCORTNEY: Your Honor, I don't believe so. Under -- we're looking at a remedial statute under (c)of the NLRA, and the only deference that the board isentitled to is, if the remedy that they order does notconflict with the immigration laws and policies of thiscountry.QUESTION: We don't give a deference toadministrative agencies as to what damage are available incourt. That's not part of their administration of thelaws, is it? I don't know any case where we've said,well, what damages -- you know, the agency can tell uswhat damages we can award. That seems quiteextraordinary.QUESTION: Were there agency adjudications here? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. McCORTNEY: In what way, Your Honor? Therewas a back pay hearing, there was a underlying unfairlabor practice proceeding.QUESTION: Which -- and the result of which was?MR. McCORTNEY: That the employer was found tohave violated the National Labor Relations Act. Theadministrative law judge at the back pay hearing --QUESTION: No, I mean, there was anadministrative order to pay, wasn't there?MR. McCORTNEY: Yes.QUESTION: That's what I thought.MR. McCORTNEY: But the administrative law judgedid find -- did not award any back pay to Castro becauseit conflicted with -- Sure-Tan had found that itconflicted with IRCA.QUESTION: But the board did.MR. McCORTNEY: Yes.QUESTION: Yes.QUESTION: I guess you're quite right that ifthe board's award violates the immigration law, that's theend of the case.MR. McCORTNEY: That's correct.QUESTION: You win. But suppose that theimmigration law doesn't forbid that award in terms, butits policy would, in fact, be hindered, while the labor th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC law, actually the policy is furthered, though it doesn'tinsist on this kind of award, wouldn't we defer to theboard when it seeks to reconcile, or the Attorney Generalwhen they seek to reconcile the policies of the twostatutes?MR. McCORTNEY: No, Your Honor.QUESTION: Because --MR. McCORTNEY: I respectfully disagree, andthis -- in Sure-Tan this Court said in devising remediesfor unfair labor practices the board is obliged to takeinto account another equally important congressionalobjective, to wit, the objective of deterring unauthorizedimmigration that is embodied in the INA.QUESTION: Well, that goes back as far asSouthern Steamship Company, where you're talking about themutiny statute, that the board can't just go ahead withoutany reference to competing statutes.MR. McCORTNEY: Well, Your Honor, I would agree,if the board's remedy conflicts with the policies ofanother statutory scheme, then it's -- they're owed nodeference.QUESTION: The board did take that into account,though. I don't remember what they did in this case, butin the case where the board explained that it was, indeed,taking into account the policy of the immigration laws and th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC the policy of the NRA -- what was the name of that case? It was affirmed on appeal. The case where the board laidout its reasoning for taking this position.MR. McCORTNEY: The APRA Fuel case?QUESTION: Yes.MR. McCORTNEY: Okay. Your Honor, thefundamental problem with this case is that this Courtstated in Sure-Tan that the objective of the INA is todeter unauthorized immigration, and that a --QUESTION: But let's go back to one thing italso said in Sure-Tan, which is that the court of appealshere made an estimate without any evidence as to theperiod of time these employees might have continuedworking before apprehension by the INS, and that sounds --working before apprehension by the INS, that sounds veryclose to what the board did in this case?MR. McCORTNEY: Well, Your Honor, also in Sure-Tan, in the last sentence of the remedial section of theopinion it states, by directing the board to impose aminimum back pay award without regard to the employee'sactual economic losses or legal availability to work, thecourt of appeals plainly exceeded its limited authorityunder the act. It made it clear that it wasn't justactual losses that was the problem, it was the fact thatthe discriminatees were not either legally present or th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC legally authorized to work.QUESTION: So then, what do you make of thecondition about the period between the violation and whenthe employees might have continued working beforeapprehension by the INS?MR. McCORTNEY: Your Honor, I don't know,because the discriminatees in that case were -- left thecountry the same day their employment terminated.QUESTION: I'm not talking about the outcome ofthat particular case, where they were in Mexico, but acase where they were here, and the question was, how muchback pay, and there's a reference to not a flat weeks or months or whatever, but a time period from the unlawfulemployment practice until one would expect the INS wouldpick up these people.MR. McCORTNEY: Your Honor, again I think thatis consistent with the other language in the Sure-Tandecision which is repeated over and over again about legalavailability to work, and being legally authorized towork, and why would the Court use that language if itdidn't have to?So I -- getting back to the policy of this thatunderlies the immigration laws of this country, it is topreserve jobs for American workers. It is not the act ofillegal entry that takes jobs away from American workers. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC It's the act of working in this country withoutauthorization that takes jobs away from American workers,and I would submit that the continued presence of anillegal alien in this country poses a greater threat toAmerican jobs than an alien who enters this countryrepeatedly, because the latter presupposes that the alienhas been physically absent from the job market for aperiod of time.If the -- under the board's scenario, the Sure-Tan discriminatees could have reentered on a tourist visaand be legally present and not legally authorized to work,and under that scenario they're clearly not entitled toback pay because it violates (a)(), that sets forththe terms and conditions on which aliens can work in thiscountry and those that can't.The same would be true of aliens who enter thecountry on a student visa, or who overstay their visa andwork without authorization, so whether you have an alienthat enters this country illegally and works withoutauthorization, or who enters this country legally andworks without authorization, both takes jobs away fromAmerican workers, and both violate the INA.QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. McCortney.Mr. Wolfson, we'll hear from you.MR. McCORTNEY: Thank you, Your Honor. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAUL R. Q, WOLFSONON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTQUESTION: Mr. Wolfson, before you get to thesubstance of the matter, I want to ask a question thatsort of relates to something that Justice Steven asked --Stevens asked, and that is, can we take it that this -- Iknow that the SG's office usually reconciles the views ofvarious agencies before a case is argued here. What wasthe position of the Immigration and NaturalizationService --MR. WOLFSON: Justice Scalia --QUESTION: -- in this matter when it was toldthat it -- that you're going to argue that courts shouldpay illegal aliens money that it was unlawful for them toearn? What did the INS say to that?MR. WOLFSON: Justice Scalia -- may it pleasethe Court -- the position in our brief has been developedin consultation with the Immigration and NaturalizationService. This is the position of the United States,and --with it?QUESTION: I understand that. Did the INS agreeMR. WOLFSON: The INS has agreed with it andaccepts it, and I'm here representing --QUESTION: They accept it. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. WOLFSON: Right.QUESTION: They have no choice --MR. WOLFSON: Well --QUESTION: -- but to accept it if the AttorneyGeneral --MR. WOLFSON: Well --QUESTION: -- tells them to. Well, I mean, ifthey agreed with it, and just thought --MR. WOLFSON: The INS --QUESTION: -- well, I have no -- it explains whywe have a massive problem of illegal immigration, ifthat's how the INS feels about this.MR. WOLFSON: I must disagree with that, JusticeScalia, and the point is, as the board recognized both inthis decision and in the APRA Fuel decision which precededit, the essential problem is that there is, as the boardpointed out, an inseverable connection between illegalimmigration, the availability of jobs, and poor workingconditions for employees for -- that illegal immigrantsare wiling to take in the United States.Now, Congress enacted IRCA on the premise thatthere was very little that it could do about the wagedifferential and the difference in levels of employment,unemployment that was drawing illegal immigrants to theUnited States in search of jobs. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: What did it say in IRCA -- didn't thehistory of the report say that IRCA is not meant toundermine or diminish in any way labor protections inexisting law, or to limit the powers of labor relationsboard to remedy unfair practices committed againstundocumented employees?MR. WOLFSON: That is exactly right, soQUESTION: What is exactly right, that is whatthe legislative history --MR. WOLFSON: That is what the legislativehistory says, but simultaneously in the --QUESTION: What legislative history was that? Imean, was this a really powerful portion of legislativehistory?MR. WOLFSON: Yes. Yes, it is.(Laughter.)QUESTION: One committee report?MR. WOLFSON: It's two committee reports.QUESTION: Two committee reports?MR. WOLFSON: It's the Judiciary Committee,House Judiciary and the Education and Labor Committee, butI don't just have --QUESTION: Of the House or the Senate?MR. WOLFSON: Of the House.QUESTION: Both of the House? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. WOLFSON: But I don't have just legislativehistory --QUESTION: Two committees in one House.MR. WOLFSON: I think it is important also tonote that in IRCA Congress also wrote into lawauthorization of increased resources for enforcement ofFederal labor laws by the Department of Labor by the Wageand Hour Division and the Office of Federal ContractCompliance.QUESTION: Did that include -- did it includethe National Labor Relations Board?MR. WOLFSON: It did not refer to the NationalLabor Relations Board, but the point is, Congress knewthat the Department of Labor was enforcing and shouldenforce Federal labor laws at the behest of and for thebenefit of illegal aliens to obtain back pay for them.QUESTION: They wanted to be sure that alienswho had no right to be here, had no right to be earningany money --MR. WOLFSON: Well --QUESTION: -- should get paid for periods thatthey didn't work? It's not a matter of their havingworked and provided the employer with a benefit, whichyou're then reimbursing them for, but they haven't worked.MR. WOLFSON: It is -- it's not just periods for th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC which they have worked, which might arguably distinguishthe Fair Labor Standards Act --QUESTION: Right. Right.MR. WOLFSON: -- minimum -- you know, maximumhours and minimum wage. It's also the Office of FederalContract Compliance, which enforces antidiscriminationprovisions, routinely seeks back pay for aliens and otherswho have been terminated in violation of executive orders.Another --QUESTION: Even though it's unlawful for them toreceive that money?MR. WOLFSON: Even though -- yes, even though itis.QUESTION: That's extraordinary. I --MR. WOLFSON: It's a very --QUESTION: Let me --MR. WOLFSON: -- fundamental part of the FairLabor Standard Act. Excuse me.QUESTION: In most back pay situations where theemployer has committed an unfair labor practice anddismisses an employee improperly, the amount he's going tobe stuck with for back pay is limited by the fact that theperson unlawfully fired has to mitigate. He has to findanother job. If he could have gotten another job easilyand doesn't do so, the employer doesn't have to pay. Now, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC how is this unlawful alien supposed to mitigate?MR. WOLFSON: Well --QUESTION: Mitigation is quite impossible, isn'tit?MR. WOLFSON: I'm not sure I agree with thatexactly, Justice Scalia. Here's -- I wouldn't say thatthe undocumented alien has a duty to mitigate. I have toemphasize that the board is not --QUESTION: He does not have a duty to mitigate?MR. WOLFSON: I will agree with that. I have tosay the board has not examined this issue in detail, butfirst of all, of course, anything that he does obtain inthe matter of interim wages will be deducted from his backpay --with --QUESTION: Oh. Oh.MR. WOLFSON: -- and that is quite consistentQUESTION: If he unlawfully obtains another job,that will be deducted?MR. WOLFSON: And -- yes, and that is quiteconsistent --QUESTION: But if he's smart, he need not dothat.MR. WOLFSON: Not --QUESTION: If he's smart he'd say, how can I th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC mitigate, it's unlawful for me to get another job.MR. WOLFSON: Justice Scalia --QUESTION: I can just sit home and eatchocolates and get my back pay.MR. WOLFSON: I don't agree that the board wouldhave to accept such a representation. That is, the boardmight permissibly conclude that an undocumented alienshould not be any better off than an authorized worker byvirtue of his undocumented status, so if an employer couldsay, well, if a person with the same credentials,background, education, and so forth, would have made a jobsearch and would have obtained employment and would haveobtained thus-and-such wages, this undocumented alienworker would have --QUESTION: Should have done so.MR. WOLFSON: Should have done -- or shouldhave --QUESTION: Should have violated the law.MR. WOLFSON: Or should not benefit from thefact that he is an undocumented alien and being relievedof -- and getting more back pay than the similarlysituated authorized worker.Now, the board was faced with the task here ofreconciling two important Federal statutory schemes, theFederal labor laws and the immigration laws, consistent -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: I would think that the -- does theboard have to reconcile the Fair Labor Standards Act andthe Office of Contract Compliance? I would think thatit's responsible as the National Labor Relations Act andthe Immigration Act in this case.MR. WOLFSON: That is correct, Mr. ChiefJustice, but I -- but the board did look to IRCA and theCourt can look to IRCA, which includes these otherprovisions in the Department of Labor, to determine whatCongress is attempting to achieve in IRCA, and those are,I think, reasonable indicators of what Congress'objectives were and how far it intended to go along withthe legislative history of the --QUESTION: Well, when the board makes itscalculus and when the Government made its calculus, did itgive any consideration to the fact that a union ought notas a matter of policy to use illegal aliens for organizingactivity, or do you think the union can do that?MR. WOLFSON: Well --QUESTION: Is it consistent with the labor lawsof the United States for the union to say it knowinglyuses an alien for organizing activity?MR. WOLFSON: I don't know that the board hasaddressed the point of knowingly using illegal aliens. I th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC do know that the board has concluded that undocumentedaliens may be included within the bargaining unit, andindeed, in both Sure-Tan -- in Sure-Tan itself I believethey were included in the bargaining unit.QUESTION: And that doesn't induce illegalimmigration?MR. WOLFSON: Well --QUESTION: It seems to me that's a far moredirect link than the very tenuous idea that you have thatthere's going to be more illegal immigration because theyknow they're going to get back pay. Here, what you'resaying is that a union can, I suppose even knowingly, useillegal aliens on the workforce to organize the employer,knowing that by doing that the alien will still beentitled to back pay. That seems to me completely missingfrom any calculus, from any equitable calculus in yourbrief. I just -- and since it's a more direct link, I'mquite puzzled by it.MR. WOLFSON: Well, I don't know -- I wouldsuggest that the more powerful inducement towards illegalmigration is the availability of the job, union or no. That is, even if the union is willing to includeundocumented workers in its bargaining unit, there stillhas to be a job for that worker, and it is the employerwho is fundamentally in control of that matter, and it is th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC the employer --QUESTION: Mr. Wolfson, in these cases we'reonly talking about a situation where the employer, andpresumably the union, too, doesn't know, because if theemployer knows, then the employer's obligation is todismiss that person, as I assume it would be the union's,too, but in all these cases the issue comes up onlybecause the employer didn't know of the illegality, isn'tthat so?MR. WOLFSON: Well, in this case the employerdid not know. Now, there are cases, I have to say, wherethe employer does know, such as the APRA Fuel Corporationthat was referred to, and in that case what the board hasdone is, it has said that the board -- the board hasordered reinstatement on condition that the undocumentedalien put himself into a situation where he can obtainreinstatement legally. That is, under no circumstancesdoes the board order reinstatement of an employee whoeverybody knows is undocumented.QUESTION: But not back pay.MR. WOLFSON: It does order back pay up to thepoint where either the employee is reinstated, or itterminates at a reasonable -- if the employee fails to puthimself in compliance with the immigration laws and becomequalified, the board cuts off back pay as of the end of a th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC reasonable period. That is consistent --QUESTION: Even though the employer -- I thoughtthat the rule was, as soon as the employer knows of theillegality we're not going to allow any back pay from thenon.MR. WOLFSON: Well, that is because in a caselike this, what the board is doing is affording theemployer the benefit of its general, after-acquiredevidence rule.QUESTION: If he knows about illegality from thevery beginning, then we will --MR. WOLFSON: Well, in a situation --QUESTION: We will order back pay?MR. WOLFSON: Yes, because in a situation likethat the employee -- the employer is not well-situated toclaim the benefit of the after-acquired evidence rule,because it cannot claim that it wouldn't have hired thealien anyway.To use an example --QUESTION: So you have two people violating thelaw, instead of one.MR. WOLFSON: Well, there are two peopleviolating the law here, Justice Scalia. I mean, theboard -- I mean, there aren't two people violating theimmigration laws, but the employer did violate the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC National Labor Relations Act, and the board is quiteproperly --QUESTION: From the time of his initial hiringup until his violation. I mean, but what you're saying iswhen both the employer and the employee are violating thelaw, we're going to -- you're asking the courts to givetheir benediction to this stark violation of United Stateslaw by awarding money that hasn't even been worked for. I -- it's just something courts don't do.MR. WOLFSON: Well, the board is charged withthe responsibility of developing a workable implementationof the National Labor Relations Act pursuant to itsauthority under section (c). In doing so, it of coursemust take into consideration the policies of theimmigration law, but there is no --QUESTION: What it's doing, though, really iskind of odd, because the result is that back pay awards toillegal workers are likely to be greater than to legalones under this board's policy, and that's so odd, and itgives the illegal alien an incentive to try to phony upmore documents and to extend for the longest possible timethe charade that the worker is here lawfully, and that'ssurely strongly against the policies of the immigrationact at the very least.MR. WOLFSON: The problem, Justice O'Connor, is th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC that the immigration act, the policies come down on bothsides.I mean, yes, they obviously discourage illegalimmigration and obtaining of jobs by illegal immigrants,but they also very strongly operate on the employer, andthe fundamental premise on which Congress enacted IRCA wasthat it was the employer's -- the employer had a verystrong and natural economic and competitive incentive tohire illegal workers, and it is that -- it is -- theboard's concern, in this case I think quite properly, isthat if back pay were removed from the equation the --QUESTION: Well, but you --MR. WOLFSON: -- Congress's attempt to -- excuseme. I'm sorry.QUESTION: You say it comes down on both sides,and it makes certain acts by illegal immigrants illegal,the entry, and it makes certain acts by the employerillegal. Here, the worker, the alien was violating thelaw. The employer was not violating the law. So you sayit comes down on both sides. If both were violating thelaw I could see your point, but the employer was notviolating the law.MR. WOLFSON: That is correct, Mr. ChiefJustice, but the board is attempting to fashion -- theboard doesn't know in advance which employer will violate th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC the law by hiring undocumented aliens knowingly and whichwill not, or which employer will, you know --QUESTION: So you say this is a prophylacticrule?MR. WOLFSON: I think that the board isfashioning a rule that is implementing Congress' policyobjective in IRCA across the board.QUESTION: But shouldn't remedies be looked atafter the fact, let's find out who violated what and thenfashion the appropriate remedy?MR. WOLFSON: Well, the Court has not said thatthe board has to only fashion its remedies in a case inwhich the precise situation -- you know, in the precisesituation into which it's dedicated.In a case called NLRB v., I think, -Up BottlingCompany the Court explained that the board can make itsback pay calculations for the purpose of across-the-boardrules rather than just the employer to which -- that isbefore the board itself, and the point is, even thoughthis employer, even though there's no evidence that thisemployer violated IRCA when it -- nonetheless the board, Ithink, could quite reasonably say, well, if -- or if thereis a flat rule that employees will never get back pay whenthey are terminated in violation of the National LaborRelations Act, employers then will pick up on that rule th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC and they will say, okay, now I can get away with itbecause there's not going to be any remedy for anyemployee, and this is a very large --QUESTION: They won't get away with it. They'resubject to prosecution for -- if they know that it's anillegal --MR. WOLFSON: It's not just the problem of theirknowing that they're illegal hiring. There also is thepaperwork obligations, the verification systems, and Ithink there is a very real concern that an employer whoknows that there's not really any monetary price to beinglax in hiring, in checking whether illegal aliens arehired would say, well, on the one hand I just have thecivil violations for violating the paperwork concerns. Onthe other hand, the labor of undocumented aliens is in avery real sense much --QUESTION: But it's just not reasonable --QUESTION: Why should the board be responsiblefor making sure that the employer documents his materialabout illegal aliens?MR. WOLFSON: I don't think that -- it's notthat the board is implementing IRCA, Mr. Chief Justice. It is that its policy here is consistent with the policiesthat I've been discussing.QUESTION: Well, here's the thing. When an th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC employer reviews documents and concludes that they'revalid and the person is lawfully here, then the employerisn't going to get some advantage of hiring some illegalalien because the worker will have to be paid and givenbenefits as though the worker were legally here, sothere's no incentive for the employer under thosecircumstances to give a bum deal to the employee.QUESTION: None at all.QUESTION: But there is an incentive, it seemsto me, for the employee to continue to conceal the facts,the facts that he's here illegally and has no right towork, and that the documents are false, and the board'srule fosters both those --MR. WOLFSON: But one does have to take intoaccount I think what would be the consequence of anopposite rule, that is, no back pay for an undocumentedalien, and there is, I think, a very serious consequencethat a flat rule that said something like, millionundocumented workers just simply get no back pay at all ifthey are in this country illegally and not employed.That is a very large class of people tobasically say, you are just without a remedy under theNational Labor Relations Act, and there may beimplications for other Federal labor laws as well, and --QUESTION: But why should they be used to th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC organize a bargaining unit --MR. WOLFSON: Because it --QUESTION: -- if they're illegal employees? I'mbaffled by that.MR. WOLFSON: Because it -- well, because thelabor laws benefit everybody, and it's not just -- I mean,they are -- when I say they're organizing a bargainingunit, obviously they are -- there may be -- in this casethere were other citizens and authorized aliens who areinterested in organizing for the purpose of vindicatingtheir rights under section of the labor relations act. The Court pointed this out in Sure-Tan, where it said itis appropriate to include illegal aliens within thedefinition of employees, because all the workers are in ittogether.QUESTION: I would have thought, Mr. Wolfson,that when you said, you know, there are million illegalaliens in this country, that what you would follow thatwith is not, that's an awful lot of people not to giveback pay to. I would have thought you would follow itwith, we have to do something to reduce this massivenumber of million illegal aliens.MR. WOLFSON: And what --QUESTION: And what you don't want to do toreduce it is to give them back pay. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. WOLFSON: Now, there is no question thatthere is a serious problem of illegal immigration, and theINS and the Attorney General dedicate substantialresources to attempting to resolve that problem.On the other hand, Congress without questionrecognized when it enacted IRCA that this was a many-faceted problem, and one aspect of the problem was thatthere was a natural magnet in drawing illegal,undocumented workers here in the wage differential, andthat employers were willing to give jobs, and that itshould not be cheaper for an employer to hire anundocumented alien than it is to hire --QUESTION: Okay, but the argument, Mr.Wolfson -- every time -- and I understand that argument. Every time you make that argument, it seems to me theanswer comes back, there are other ways to go against theemployer. You can fine the employer, you can bringcriminal actions against the employer, and so on, so thatthe answer always is the effort to discourage employersfrom hiring illegal aliens doesn't depend upon the backpay.I thought the board's position was strongest tocounter that when the board says, there's kind of the grayarea in which it's not clear that we can prosecute. Theevidence of what the employer knew at the relevant time is th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC not leaping out at us, and so what we are trying to do isto fashion a remedy for those cases in which it's notpractical to prosecute, but which we know perfectly wellin the real world employers are winking at the likelihoodthat they're employing illegal aliens. That's the groupthat we want to provide the inducement for by forcing backpay. Is -- am I giving the board too much credit?MR. WOLFSON: I wouldn't say that the board haslimited -- it certainly hasn't limited its remedy to thatsituation --QUESTION: Well, why then, in the question --why in the question -- because I have exactly the samequestion. That's exactly what I thought. In the questionthat the Government presented it says, whether an order topay back pay to an employee who was discriminatorily laidoff, but only up to the date on which petitionerdiscovered that the employee was an undocumented alien,whether that kind of order is lawful. That's how you sawthe question presented.Now are you telling me that what I'm supposed todecide is a case I really didn't think I had to decide,which is, what happens if the board awards back pay toothers, such as those whom the employer has always knownwere illegal?MR. WOLFSON: We are not suggesting that the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Court has to decide that case here. Indeed, in our briefin opposition to the cert petition we pointed out thatthat was a different set of cases, the set of cases underthe APRA --QUESTION: Well, if it's a narrow question, justwhat Justice Souter said I had taken to be the preciserationale for the narrow set of cases we're supposed todecide. Now, maybe that's all not so. That, I think, iswhat he was saying, and I'm seconding it.QUESTION: Clearly you haven't missed youropportunity.(Laughter.)MR. WOLFSON: Justice Breyer, my point is thatthe board in a case -- the board did rely on its APRA Fueldecision in this case, but what it held in this case wasthat an employer, once an employer learns that an alien isundocumented and therefore he cannot be hired, and inaddition that the board accepts that that employer wouldnot have hired that alien and would have discharged thealien when it found out that he was undocumented, then theemployer should surely get the benefit of the after-acquired evidence rule that is applied in many, many kindsof Federal labor laws, including the Age DiscriminationAct, for example.QUESTION: Once you adopt that rule, however, it th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC seems to me that the asserted benefit to the immigrationlaws that you're claiming this rule has disappears. It isno disincentive to any employer, because the only employerwho would get the benefit of the rule that you don't getany back pay would be the perfectly innocent employer whohires someone not knowing that the person is an unlawfulalien. How are you possibly deterring anybody?You're trying to deter the employer who hires animmigrant, apparently with this in the back of his mind: I know this guy's an immigrant and I can commit an unfairlabor practice upon him. I'm rather skeptical whetherthat's high in the mind of any employer, but assuming itis, you still have to assume, if he's going to bedeterred, that he knows that the person is an illegalimmigrant, but this rule only applies to people who don'tknow.MR. WOLFSON: Well, whether or not -- he may notknow in the face of having clear, irrefutable evidencebefore him. On the other hand, he may be induced to besomewhat lax in his compliance with the obligations of theverification system, because --QUESTION: Well, get him for that, then. Get him for that, then.MR. WOLFSON: Well, that -- of course, that'snot -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: But your -- isn't another way todescribe the class you're dealing with is, he may not knowin the sense that the Government can prove that he knew,but there is a class of employees as to whom the evidenceis not clear, and it is that class that we want to providethe negative inducement for. Isn't that the answer?MR. WOLFSON: I think at a, I would say at aminimum that is the answer, and the board cannot know inadvance --QUESTION: Why should the board take overresponsibility for those provisions that are basicallyimmigration law provisions?MR. WOLFSON: Mr. Chief Justice, the board doesnot view itself as enforcing the immigration laws. Ithink the question is, is this particular orderinconsistent with the immigration laws, or is itconsistent, and for some of the reasons that are beingexpressed here, all that we are saying is that it doesnot -- it is consistent with them.Surely there is no direct conflict with theimmigration laws. The board --QUESTION: What you just agreed to in yourcolloquy with Justice Souter does contradict theimmigration -- I remember when this statute was passedabout what the responsibility of the employer was. It was th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC a clear provision of the statute that all the employer hasto do is check the papers. It isn't the responsibility ofthe employer to look behind the papers and see whetherit's forged.Now you're saying, ah, but there are someemployers that maybe, yeah, you know, they complied withthe provision of the law, they looked at the card, whichis what the -- there was a big fight over that. How muchis -- investigatory responsibility is going to be placedon the employer, and the answer was basically none, justlook at the documentation, and now you're saying, but someemployers, we think they should have known better, andwe're going to impose on this class of employers and, asit turns out, on a lot of others, liability which theyshouldn't have.MR. WOLFSON: They don't have any liabilityunder IRCA. I mean, nobody is suggesting that the boardcan impose a liability under IRCA, but there is a concern,I think, that if en employer is totally exempted from backpay, a back pay remedy under another Federal labor law,that that does -- that does work an inducement on the partof the employer to hire illegal aliens.QUESTION: Do no more than what the statuterequires. Check the documentation. If the documentationis there, and valid on its face, he's entitled to proceed. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC That's what the fight was about, and that's how theimmigration law came out.MR. WOLFSON: I do want to touch a bit on Sure-Tan, which I haven't had much of a chance to discuss. Our -- we have submitted in our brief that we think thatthe facts of the Sure -- of the situation in Sure-Tanreally make it quite distinguishable from this particularcase. In Sure-Tan, first of all I do want to point outthat the condition that the Court explained and put on areinstatement and back pay remedy, those did originate inthe Seventh Circuit, and no party to this Court challengedthat condition, that reinstatement and back pay had to beconditioned on the employee showing that he was legallyauthorized to be present and employed in the UnitedStates.Now, the Court perceived that what happened inSure-Tan was essentially the employer was being forced tosay to the employee, you have a guaranteed job and apaycheck waiting for you right now, so come back to theUnited States right now and pick it up. I mean, thatobviously is a very powerful lure to an employee tomigrate back to the United States if there is no conditionthat the employee show that he is authorized.We submit that the incentives work quitedifferently in a case like this where the employee does th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC remain in the United States. Congress did enact IRCA onthe assumption that illegal, undocumented alien employeesin the United States were at the very bottom of the wagescale, they were likely to remain here as long as theycould get any job that was available, and as against that,we submit that the inducement to violate the immigrationlaws that petitioner suggests by the prospect of waitingaround after years of litigation for the prospect of somekind of back pay award at the end of the day is quiteminimal, and all the courts that have looked at this underother Federal law such as title VII and the FLSA haveagreed that it is not the prospect of a back pay awardthat induces illegal migration or illegal stay in theUnited States, it is the prospect of any job at any wagethat is available, and so the incentives do operate quitedifferently here than they did in Sure-Tan.QUESTION: Mr. Wolfson, do you think a Statecourt could enforce a contract for employment by anillegal alien?MR. WOLFSON: I do not think that a State courtcould --QUESTION: You know, an illegal --MR. WOLFSON: Right.QUESTION: -- makes a contract with an employer,then it is -- he sues because the employer doesn't go th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ahead with it, and -- could a State court say, well, youmade the contract, you should be liable for damages?MR. WOLFSON: I think a State court could awarddamages, and State courts have done so. It could notorder specific performance, because that would order -- itcould not order specific performance in ordering theemployer to employ the person because that would beemployment in violation of IRCA, but there, there would bea direct conflict with IRCA, but State courts have --QUESTION: There's no doctrine that conflicts inviolation of the law are unenforceable?MR. WOLFSON: They're not necessarily completelyvoid. I mean, not just contracts, but State courts haveawarded tort damages for lost wages. It is universallythe rule that undocumented aliens are entitled to Worker'sCompensation. I think only two States have gone the otherway, and all of the State courts that have looked at thathave said, yes, it is true, when the employee is just --you know, is injured and claims Worker's Compensation heis claiming a measure of compensation that is related tothe employment he would have had, but nonetheless, thevast majority of State courts have held that illegalaliens can proceed under the Worker's Compensation rules,and the same is true of tort and contract damages as well.QUESTION: But all of that is for work done -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. WOLFSON: No --QUESTION: -- or injury suffered, not toenforce a contract which has not been executed, which iswhat's going on here.MR. WOLFSON: Well, there may -- perhaps thereis a difference between tort and contract damages, but itis not just for work done. If it is for injury suffered,it is for injury suffered as measured against that thework would have been done, or work that would have beendone. I mean, surely that's the case in tort damages or Worker's Compensation, where the employee says, I wouldhave worked and you owe me this money.Thank you.CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: Thank you, Mr.Wolfson. The case is submitted.(Whereupon, at : a.m., the case in theabove-entitled matter was submitted.) th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC 