 IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XCORRECTION OFFICER PORTER, ET AL., Petitioners :::v. : No. -RONALD NUSSLE :- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XWashington, D.C.Monday, January , The above-entitled matter came on for oralargument before the Supreme Court of the United States at: a.m.APPEARANCES:RICHARD BLUMENTHAL, ESQ., Attorney General, Hartford,Connecticut; on behalf of the Petitioners.IRVING L. GORNSTEIN, ESQ., Assistant to the SolicitorGeneral, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; onbehalf of the United States, as amicus curiae,supporting the Petitioners.JOHN R. WILLIAMS, ESQ., New Haven, Connecticut; on behalfof the Respondent. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC C O N T E N T SORAL ARGUMENT OF RICHARD BLUMENTHAL, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioners ORAL ARGUMENT OFIRVING L. GORNSTEIN, ESQ.On behalf of the United States, as amicus curiae,supporting the Petitioners ORAL ARGUMENT OFJOHN R. WILLIAMS, ESQ.On behalf of the Respondent REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OFRICHARD BLUMENTHAL, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioners PAGE th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC P R O C E E D I N G S(: a.m.)CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: We'll hear argumentnext in Number -, Porter v. Nussle.General Blumenthal.ORAL ARGUMENT OF RICHARD BLUMENTHALON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERSGENERAL BLUMENTHAL: Mr. Chief Justice, and mayit please the Court:This case is about the meaning of the term,prison conditions, and the reason it is here is becausethe Second Circuit misinterpreted that term contrary tothe purposes of Congress and the meaning given that termby this Court.In fact, Congress adopted this Court's languagewhen it passed the Prison Litigation Reform Act of and adopted the meaning of that term given to it by thisCourt in a line of cases, Preiser v. Rodriguez, theBronson case, McCarthy v. Bronson, and Wilson v. Seiter,that very clearly include single episode and excessiveforce cases, which the Second Circuit Court of Appealsexcluded in its decision. It interpreted the term, prisonconditions, to exclude those kinds of single episode andexcessive forces instances of misconduct by prisonofficials. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: What's the universe of conditions andnonconditions that you would suggest? There wasconsiderable discussion in the brief about the distinctionbetween suits and habeas corpus suits. You would notdraw the line there, would you, or would you?GENERAL BLUMENTHAL: Preiser v. Rodriguez drawsthe line between habeas corpus petitions on the one handchallenging the fact or duration of confinement and the onthe other hand conditions of prison life, or conditions ofhis prison life, as it refers to the petitions that wethink are the universe that would be included in actions. Virtually any conditions of prison life ought tobe regarded as conditions of confinement cases.QUESTION: Well, can you give me an example,under your theory, of a case that is not covered by habeascorpus, but that also are not a condition of prison lifewhich is a suit? When could a suit lie underyour theory?GENERAL BLUMENTHAL: Our position would be thatall of those lawsuits ought to be subject, are subjectto the exhaustion requirement. There are no exclusions,whether it's --QUESTION: You can't think of any suit broughtby a prisoner that is not controlled by the term,conditions, unless it's a habeas corpus suit? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC GENERAL BLUMENTHAL: Well, if it were completelyunrelated to prison life -- an example might be, forexample, a lawsuit against a State tax commissioner, forexample, just to take one that seems relevant in light ofthe earlier argument today, where the prisoner is claimingthat he's been denied a refund to which he's properlyentitled, and --QUESTION: You're saying that all EighthAmendment claims under , which is what most of theprison cases are.GENERAL BLUMENTHAL: All --QUESTION: They claim that they've been deprivedof a constitutional right because they have been sentencedto prison and the conditions of that prison, whether it'san isolated beating by a guard or anything else, areunduly -- are cruel and unusual?GENERAL BLUMENTHAL: Yes, Justice Scalia. AllEighth Amendment constitutional claims, indeed allconstitutional claims under , this Court has neverestablished a hierarchy among such claims regardingexcessive force claims as deserving greater priority, sothat they ought to be spared the exhaustion requirement.In fact, it is specifically said in Wilson v.Garcia that, for example, on statute of limitationsquestions there ought to be uniformity, and certainty, so th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC as to avoid the kind of litigation that also was thepurpose of Congress in passing the PLRA, and that isreally one of the key points here.QUESTION: That's an easier line. What you'resaying is that the minute you begin defining a universe ofconditions which is smaller than the suits --generally we have a whole jurisprudence that has to betested and create satellite litigation, et cetera, and Iunderstand that. I'm just wondering if your definition isprevailing, Congress would have used those words,conditions. It would have just said all suitsinvolving prisoners, period.GENERAL BLUMENTHAL: Justice Kennedy, Congressused that term because it was used by this Court todescribe a category of the universe as set forth inPreiser and again in McCarthy v. Bronson, where the courtfaced a similar issue under the Magistrates Act, thenonconsensual referral of petitions to magistrates, andsaid that all of these cases, cases are, indeed,conditions of confinement cases, and Congress wanted touse that language and that meaning given by this term soas to avoid corollary or, as you put it quite well,satellite litigation that, in fact -- in fact has beenspawned in the Second Circuit by the Nussle case, and wesee it, for example, in Royster v. United States, which is th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC before this Court on cert, where excessive force is nolonger even involved.It's a particularized instance, as the court ofappeals referred to it, of denial of the documents, legaldocuments that the prisoner claims he is entitled toreceive, and courts then and now would have to decide whatkinds of cases are excessive force, if they are mixed withother cases that may not be excessive force, if they seemto involve in some respect ongoing conditions --QUESTION: You can certainly find some EighthAmendment claims that have nothing to do with excessiveforce, I think. A case comes to mind that we decidedearlier this term, a case called Molesco, which came fromthe Second Circuit. It didn't come here under the PrisonLitigation Act, but what happened there was that theprisoner had a heart condition, he ordinarily was allowedto use the elevator to go up to the sixth floor cell, thisday the prison attendant said no, you can't use theelevator, so he walked up the stairs and had a heartattack.Now, that case was brought under the EighthAmendment. I take it under your view that if it were aprison litigation action he should have to exhaustadministrative remedies.GENERAL BLUMENTHAL: Exactly, Mr. Chief Justice. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC He ought to be required to exhaust because in that case,for example, the prison administrator could and might wellmake adjustments to the facilities, might do retraining,different decisions on hiring, in fact, disciplining --QUESTION: General Blumenthal, on the other sideof that is the argument that Nussle makes that he saidthat the guards told me if I report what they did theywould kill me, so are there assurances -- you said thevalue of -- no risk to the prisoners, this is going on, sothat they can cure it. He says, if I told they said theywere going to kill me. Are there assurances in the systemthat there isn't going to be retaliation of someone whomakes an internal complaint?GENERAL BLUMENTHAL: Certainly in Connecticut'ssystem, Justice Ginsburg, there are such assurances, andin the joint appendix at and at other places there arerequirements for confidentiality, for example. There is arequirement for an informal contact or request.In the Connecticut system, the commissionerentertains, personally reads, is on the floor and, indeed,there is the requirement that the lieutenant make tworounds every day, that a captain make one round, that hebe or she be accessible in those circumstances, and thatprotection be provided, and that is, as a matter of fact,one of the advantages of exhausting, because it assures th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC timely, prompt attention.QUESTION: General Blumenthal, I don't reallyunderstand this. Was the threat that the guards made, ifyou tell somebody through an administrative internalprocedure we're going to kill you, but it's perfectly okayto go to a court directly. We just really want you toexhaust administrative remedies. We'll kill you if youexhaust administrative remedies.(Laughter.)QUESTION: But if you go right to the court,that's okay. Is that realistically what the threat was?GENERAL BLUMENTHAL: Justice Scalia, the --QUESTION: So this problem, you have it nomatter what, don't you?(Laughter.)QUESTION: You can't --GENERAL BLUMENTHAL: The threat of retaliationwas more general.QUESTION: I would think so.GENERAL BLUMENTHAL: And it was never verified,of course.QUESTION: Prison guards don't --GENERAL BLUMENTHAL: It was a claim.QUESTION: -- administrative law generally, inmy experience. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC GENERAL BLUMENTHAL: Well, they're learning,Justice Scalia, and part of the claim here was one ofretaliation, but it --QUESTION: Was he still in prison when hebrought this case?GENERAL BLUMENTHAL: He was in prison when hebrought this lawsuit. He waited for years. He waiteduntil literally to days, depending on whether you lookat the complaint or whatever, until the statute oflimitations was about to expire, and then he went tocourt.It was not a timely, emergent, exigent plea forhelp, and if there had been a real threat physically tohim, the prison administration would have afforded a farmore effective means of protection than going to Federalcourt and seeking some remedy -- and by the way, he soughtmoney damages. He didn't seek any protection orinjunctive relief -- than going to Federal court andseeking some remedy far in the future.The excessive force claim -- and I want to bevery frank about it -- is intertwined with the singleepisode contention on which the court of appeals alsorelied, and in our view the excessive force claim, thethreat of physical harm, is a more difficult one becauseit's raised in this Court's cases, in Hudson v. McMillian, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC and Farmer v. Brennan, which deal with the element ofproof, the elements of proof that have to be provided tomake out a claim, with the standard of intent that has tobe shown.QUESTION: You acknowledge they do draw thisdistinction between prison conditions and excessive forcecases?GENERAL BLUMENTHAL: They do, Justice Kennedy,but only for the purpose of the standard of proof orintent, and this Court has made that distinction veryclear in Crawford-El v. Britton, which is cited in thebriefs at U.S. , and particularly at the Courtdraws the distinction, because in Crawford-El it is sayingthat a heightened standard of intent need not be shown,should not be required in order to protect prisonofficials from frivolous lawsuits or from discovery.And the Court says we have a law that will dothat, we have the PLRA, and it says about the PLRA, mostsignificantly, and I'm quoting from , mostsignificantly the statute draws no distinction betweenconstitutional claims that require proof of an impropermotive and those that do not, so the Court there -- and itgoes on to say, if there is a compelling need to frame newrules of law based on such a distinction, presumablyCongress either would have dealt with the problem in the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC reform act, or will respond to it in future legislation.What the Court is doing there is saying, and itdoes so after a footnote that cites Farmer, and refers tothe Eighth Amendment, that is to say, footnote , we don'tmean that prison conditions should exclude the excessiveforce claims simply because we have said in Farmer andHudson v. McMillian that under the questions presentedthere they would do so, so the Court I think as answer --this Court has answered that question, and --QUESTION: Is this the citation to Crawford-El?GENERAL BLUMENTHAL: Crawford-El is UnitedStates , and I have been quoting from .QUESTION: Thank you.GENERAL BLUMENTHAL: And . The quote wasfrom , but I want to make clear, in fairness, thatquotation is not central to the holding of the case, whichI mentioned earlier. It is a distinction that the Courtdraws so as to in effect provide reassurance that thePrisoner Litigation Reform Act will do the job ofeliminating frivolous litigation as, indeed, it did ina(c), where it provided for dismissal of actions thatare frivolous, malicious, or seek monetary damage from anofficial who is immune, and it uses the term, prisonconditions.In fact, prison conditions is also a term used th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC in e(f), where there's a reference to the pretrialproceedings that can occur by means of video, ortelephone, or other telephone communications technology. There is no reason that the term, prison conditions, inthose sections of the statute, ought to exclude excessiveforce cases or single episode instances of misconduct and,indeed, it would do violence, it would be directlycontradictory to the purposes of Congress, which were toreduce the volume of litigation, particularly frivolouslitigation, to give prison administrators a chance tocorrect errors or mistakes and to reduce the interferenceof Federal courts in prison administration, and to providea better record if there is going to be resort to theFederal courts.With the Court's permission, if there are nofurther questions I'd like to reserve the remainder of mytime.QUESTION: Very well, General Blumenthal.Mr. Gornstein, we'll hear from you.ORAL ARGUMENT OF IRVING L. GORNSTEINON BEHALF OF THE UNITED STATES, AS AMICUS CURIAE,SUPPORTING THE PETITIONERSMR. GORNSTEIN: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court:For four reasons, actions that challenge th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC particular instances of unlawful conduct such as excessiveforce are actions with respect to prison conditions thatmust be exhausted under the PLRA.First, in three cases, this Court has used theterms, prison conditions, or conditions of confinement, torefer to particular instances of unlawful conduct and, inone of those cases, McCrary v. Bronson, it applied theterm to a single episode of excessive force. There's noreason to think that Congress intended any narrowermeaning here.Second, the purposes of the exhaustion provisionare to give prison officials an opportunity to resolveproblems within the prison by themselves, and to reducethe enormous volume of prison litigation in Federalcourts. In terms of those two purposes, there'sabsolutely no reason to distinguish between actions thatchallenge particular instances of unlawful conduct such asexcessive force and any other sort of prisoner complaint. Prison authorities in fact have a particularly stronginterest in resolving complaints about staff misconduct ontheir own, and grievance procedures are fully effective todo that without any need for significant Federal courtlitigation.Third, as this Court has recognized, it isextremely difficult to administer a line between isolated th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC episodes or particular instances and more systematicpractices, or actions undertaken pursuant to a policy. Any effort to do that would generate substantialadditional litigation on a threshold collateral issue whenCongress' goal was to reduce the amount of judicialresources devoted to prisoner complaints.And finally, creating an exception forparticular instances of unlawful conduct has the potentialto create an enormous loophole in the exhaustionrequirement. Already, that exception has been applied bythe Second Circuit to retaliation claims, to confiscationof property claims, and it has the potential andcapability to be applied to a wide variety of prisonercomplaints that are directed at the actions of individualofficers.It is very unlikely that the Congress amendedthis exhaustion provision for the express purpose ofmaking sure that a dramatically increased number of caseswould have to go through the exhaustion process, wouldhave simultaneously cut out that large category of claimsthat could benefit from the exhaustion process.QUESTION: Could you tell me on your point ,you cited the case where excessive force applied to --prison conditions applied to a single incident. What wasthat case? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. GORNSTEIN: McCrary v. Bronson.QUESTION: And was that pre or post enactment ofthe litigation reform act?MR. GORNSTEIN: That's preenactment.QUESTION: Preenactment.MR. GORNSTEIN: And in that case was aconstruction of the Magistrates Act that had nonconsensualreferral in cases involving conditions of confinement, andthe Court interpreted the phrase, Conditions ofconfinement, to embrace single incidents, includingexcessive force, and rejected an alternative constructionthat is similar to the one adopted by the Second Circuithere that prison conditions refers to systematicpractices, and it did so for the same reasons, really,that you should reach the same conclusion here.The Court said that the purpose of that act wasto reduce the workload of Federal courts, and that wouldfurther that purpose, and it said that trying to draw thatdistinction between individual actions and systematicpractices would provoke -- generate a whole new round oflitigation, when what we're trying to deal with here issomething that's trying to save time.QUESTION: What about Hudson and Farmer?MR. GORNSTEIN: Hudson and Farmer show that theterm, prison conditions, can be used in a narrower sense, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC and that context matters, but here the context was indefining the substantive elements for proving a particularkind of Eighth Amendment violation, and the substantivestandards for proving a claim really have nothing to dowith whether a claim should be exhausted.The context we have here is an exhaustionprovision, and the purposes of exhaustion, as I have said,are to give prison officials a chance to act first tosolve a problem and to reduce the volume of litigationand, in light of those purposes, it simply makes no senseto adopt a narrower meaning. Instead, the Court shouldadopt a broader meaning that comes from Preiser v.Rodriguez, and McCrary v. Bronson, and Wilson v. Seiter.QUESTION: Of course, still in all, even inHudson, I guess, drawing a distinction between continuingprison conditions and single incident prison conditions,or single incidents that aren't prison conditions, stillinvolves you in the same problem of satellite litigation that you say would be one of the horrible effects ofadopting the same interpretation in the present case. Imean, that didn't stop us from coming out that way inHudson. Maybe it should have, but it didn't.MR. GORNSTEIN: Justice Scalia, two responses tothat. One is that the line that was actually drawn inHudson as I read it is not between single instances and th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC systematic practices, it's between excessive force claimsand everything else, which is -- does still have itsdifficulties in administration, but maybe not quite aschallenging as single instances versus systematicpractices.The other difference is, we're talking aboutapplying something at the liability stage to make adetermination on whether there has been liability enough,as opposed to, what do we do right at the outset oflitigation when somebody comes in with a complaint, it's athreshold question, and generating additional litigationabout that on a threshold question on a collateral issueit seems to me is something that you would want togenerate less litigation about, generally speaking.If the Court has no further questions --QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. Gornstein.Mr. Williams.ORAL ARGUMENT OF JOHN R. WILLIAMSON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTMR. WILLIAMS: Mr. Chief Justice, may it pleasethe Court:When Congress enacted the Prison LitigationReform Act, it did so on the heels of at least threedecisions by this Court which clearly defined the term,prison conditions, to exclude excessive force cases and th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC those cases start, of course, with Wilson v. Seiter, whichexpressly held, and I will quote, the very high state ofmind prescribed by Whitley does not apply to prisonconditions cases.QUESTION: What was at issue in Wilson v.Seiter?MR. WILLIAMS: Well, of course, that was amedical indifference case, deliberate indifference caseinvolving the distinction between a single incident andmultiple incidents, and to the extent that the SecondCircuit, post Nussle, has gone on to attempt to draw adistinction of that kind, we do not defend it. Thedistinction which I think is applicable here in definingthe term, prison conditions, is excessive force casesversus all other types of cases, other than --QUESTION: So on the other side of the line sofar as you're concerned would be a number of singleincident types of thing that did not involve excessiveforce?MR. WILLIAMS: Yes, indeed. I think thedistinction is one that this Court has made it absolutelyclear the distinction is between -- has to do with themens rea that's required. If the mens rea is a malicious,sadistic, intending to cause pain, that's not a prisoncondition. If it is, however, deliberate indifference, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC that is a prison condition.QUESTION: But why would Congress have made thatdistinction and said that one -- the kind of cases you'rerefer -- shouldn't exhaust administrative remedies whereasthe other one should. It doesn't -- I can see -- you cancertainly draw a definitional line, but why would Congresshave said case A exhaust, case B don't?MR. WILLIAMS: Well, excessive force cases aredifferent. They've always been different under thisCourt's jurisprudence. There are many protections thatare already built in to avoid frivolous litigation in theexcessive force context.For example, the standard itself, cruel,malicious, sadistic, is a very tough one to meet. Second,Leatherman, of course, did not remove or excuse gettingaway with just notice pleading. It required factpleading, so that when you combine the requirement of factpleading with the high standard that has to be met there'sa very -- it's a very rare case that will pass a (b)()motion if it's an excessive force case in the first place.QUESTION: Isn't the answer to your argument,though, the answer that Mr. Gornstein gave a moment agowhen he referred to the significance of context? If theissue before the Court involves a distinction amongdifferent kinds of prison cases, then we can certainly th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC understand the distinction when we say conditions aredifferent from particular incidents, and if you refer onlyconditions, you're meaning to exclude particularincidents.But if we're trying to draw a distinctionbetween prison cases and all kinds of -- all other kindsof cases, which was the case when Congress passedthis statute, then I suppose it does make good sense touse prison conditions in a much broader sense to covereverything that might come out of prison litigation todistinguish it from other kinds of cases, and isn'tthat the answer to your argument based on our use of theterm in certain cases?MR. WILLIAMS: I think that's more a policyissue than a statutory construction issue, and I thinkthat this is just a simple case of statutory construction.QUESTION: But the -- I mean, Mr. Gornstein'sargument is kind of a compared-to-what argument. He'ssaying, when you use the phrase, conditions, what are youcomparing the conditions against? Are you comparing themagainst other kinds of things that happen in a prison, orare you comparing them against other kinds of cases thatmight be brought under , and the answer is possiblygoing to be quite different, depending on which contextyou're in. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. WILLIAMS: Well, I think the context inwhich this Court has used it, and therefore in whichCongress is presumed to have used it, is the latter.QUESTION: The cases that, including the one youcite, the Government cites for the opposite proposition.MR. WILLIAMS: I think --QUESTION: The cases say, and they have loads oflanguage there which seem to say it, that Wilson v. Seiterand three other cases did focus on the issue of singleincident versus affecting several people. They alldecided that single incident is within the meaning ofprison conditions or the like.Senator Biden on the floor says, if you passthis law, you are going to sweep within it excessive forcecases, and nobody denies it, all of which from the most --and the language, the language admits of Justice Souter'ssuggestion, and he provides a purpose.So taking all those things together, why isn'tthe law in this case precisely along the lines hesuggested?MR. WILLIAMS: There's no doubt that the casesinvolved do not see a principal distinction between singleincident and multiple incident cases. That, I think, iswhere the Second Circuit in the post Nussle cases has gonewrong. I don't defend that. I think that the distinction th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC is the one that this Court has always drawn, which isbetween the excessive force mens rea, which is cruel,malicious, sadistic, intending to cause pain and nothingelse, on the one hand --QUESTION: That's only excessive force?QUESTION: That's only excessive force?QUESTION: I see somebody in dire need ofmedical attention and I sit there smiling cruelly --please, get me a doctor.MR. WILLIAMS: That is exactly --QUESTION: You call that excessive force?MR. WILLIAMS: That's -- no. That's deliberateindifference. This Court has often said that. That'sexactly what we're talking about.QUESTION: Well --MR. WILLIAMS: There -- it's -- indeed --QUESTION: It has nothing to do with the thingsyou were saying, then, cruelty, and savagery, whatever. MR. WILLIAMS: Well, the term is --QUESTION: You can be just as cruel and savagewithout applying excessive force, if you do it right.MR. WILLIAMS: The -- we can have words meanwhatever we want them to mean, but this Court has made itclear what it means when it refers to excessive force, andthat is the mens rea that we were just talking about th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC which, after all, comes from Judge Friendly's seminalopinion in Johnson v. Glick.That, however, is not what we mean when we talkabout prison conditions, and this Court has made thatclear, and made it clear at the time Congress enacted thePLRA, and I think that the important distinction betweenthe PLRA and the Magistrates Act is that when theMagistrates Act was passed, all they had -- and that'swhat this Court held in McCarthy v. Bronson, all they hadto guide them on the meaning of the term was Preiser, andso following Preiser, of course, that's what it meant, andthat's why they used it that way in the Magistrates Act.But after this Court decided McCarthy andBrennan, this Court then went on to address the issue,focus on the language, and explain this very distinctionthat I'm arguing for here, and it was after this Court haddone so in three cases, one after the other, that Congressthen passed the PLRA.QUESTION: That's what I don't understand. Now,I didn't realize this. You're conceding, I take it, thatan individual incident is a prison condition, as long asit isn't an excessive force incident, and at that point,although maybe there are three cases that say this -- I'llread them -- why would anybody want to say that a singleincident refusing to feed a prisoner, a single incident th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC refusing to give him medical assistance, a single incidentrefusing to let him take exercise in fact is a prisoncondition, but a single incident of hitting him is not?MR. WILLIAMS: I can't speak for Congress'intention, but I can speak for the meaning of the words asthey've been defined by the Court, and there is an obviousdistinction under this Court's cases. That's what we'retalking about when we talk about statutory construction,and that's why I say that this is not a grand policy case. This is a traditional --QUESTION: Well, but we're also talking aboutreaching a sensible result.MR. WILLIAMS: Well, the sensible result is theresult that this Court has often reached in the past,which is to say to Congress, if this is what you want todo, do it in the way that you're supposed to do it.QUESTION: But it really isn't quite that clearwhat Congress wanted to do as between these two views.MR. WILLIAMS: Well, of course, if Congress isambiguous, then we go back to the default position, andthe default position is, we go back to dictionary meaning,and this Court held in McCarthy v. Bronson that if youjust look to the dictionary definition of the term, prisonconditions, you're not talking about excessive forcecases, and in McCarthy this Court said, however, we don't th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC use the dictionary definition because when the MagistratesAct was passed Congress is presumed to have been lookingto Preiser, but once Congress gets mushy, as they reallyare in the PLRA, because some sections use the term prisonconditions, some sections don't, and that's even true inthe title amendment, so --QUESTION: Mr. Williams, there's a case that hascome up in various forms where violence, random violenceis what characterizes the prison system. There was thelitigation in Alabama, where the State Attorney Generalsaid, this, the atmosphere in this prison is jungle-like,and this Court said it in Dosset v. Rawlinson. Where doyou put those cases? Those are excessive force cases, butit's pervasive in the prison, not just one beating by aguard. Would those cases come outside the prisonLitigation Reform Act, even though you're talking aboutthe kind of conduct that pervades the entire institution?MR. WILLIAMS: I'm not sure that this Court hasever told us exactly what the mens rea is that must be metin such a case, and I think that will be the answer to thequestion when that case arises. If this Court says thatin any given pervasive violence situation, then thenecessary mens rea remains the Johnson v. Glick one, thenthat's an excessive force case and it's not a prisonconditions case. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC On the other hand, if this Court says that thenecessary mens rea is simply deliberate indifference, thenit is a prison conditions case.QUESTION: Well, it's hard to say it'sdeliberate indifference when you're beating up on someone.MR. WILLIAMS: If you're suing the individualguard, of course, you're dealing with an instance ofbrutality. What I was thinking of is the more interestingquestion of where the warden issues a decree.QUESTION: The warden knows that this is goingon. It's not deliberate indifference, because it's ajungle-like atmosphere.MR. WILLIAMS: If the warden is aware of it andis tolerating it, then it becomes policy, and then thisCourt is going to have to say, well, what's the standardof liability for the warden? Is it deliberateindifference or is it the Johnson v. Glick? I don't know. I don't believe this Court has told us.QUESTION: I would think that just the usage,ordinary English, what the words mean, when a conditionpervades a prison, then it's a prison condition.MR. WILLIAMS: Well, I think that that gets offinto the single incident versus multiple incident issue,and I prefer to think of it in terms of the mens rea, andI can conceive that an argument might well be made, and in th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC fact I would be happy to make it, that where it is sopervasive that the warden is charged with actual knowledgeof -- there's the municipal liability cases under --that he's charged with knowledge of it, then I would saythat the Johnson v. Glick standard applies, and it's not aprison condition, but you could make the other argumentjust as well.In any event, it's an easy line to draw so thatwe will know, the district courts will know in any givencase where it falls on the line of --QUESTION: Why in the world would Congress --you can give us no inkling of why Congress would sit downand say, whether there has to be exhaustion ofadministrative remedies ought to depend upon what state ofmind the actor is going to be held to? Why is there anyconceivable connection between those two issues, andthat's what you're saying they did, that they left it upto the future law of this Court as to what mens rea willbe required, and if on the one hand the mens rea is goingto be, you know, just deliberate indifference, then youhave to exhaust, and if it's intentional cruelty you don'thave to exhaust.MR. WILLIAMS: I would think that the reason forthat, if Congress had a reason, is that Congress knew thatbecause of the very high bar this Court has a record in th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC excessive force cases, combined with the fact pleadingrequirement, that the concerns Congress had aboutfrivolous litigation and undue meddling of the districtcourts in their business are already met by existing law,and therefore the PLRA need not be concerned with it andindeed, I think just about everybody agrees that theconcerns of Congress in enacting the PLRA was preciselythose two things, neither of which readily fits theexcessive force model. QUESTION: But if you have a guard who issadistically beating people, certainly that seems to bethe sort of thing that might easily be corrected, at leastfor the future, by exhaustion.MR. WILLIAMS: But that, again, is a policyquestion, Chief Justice.QUESTION: Well, it is, but when we're trying tofigure out what Congress really intended here, I think oneshies away from a distinction which is perfectlytechnically sound but doesn't seem to have anything to dowith what people thinking about the desirability ofexhaustion would have thought about.MR. WILLIAMS: Well, when you look at the entirePLRA, and I was a little dismayed in preparing for oralargument to realize that the entire PLRA isn't in thejoint appendix to our briefs, but when you look at it in th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC its entirety, the presence or absence of that phrase,prison conditions, is quite interesting.For instance, in title , prison conditions donot apply to the attorney fee cap. Rather, that relatesto prisoner suits, and similarly the distinction thatthere can be no monetary award for emotional distressunless it's accompanied by physical injury, those areprisoner suits, not prison conditions cases.When you look further, section , the lienprovisions under the act, again, there's no prisonconditions limitation, so clearly Congress had in mindthat there are some kinds of suits by prisoners where itwants to impose more stringent limitations and otherswhere it wants to impose some limitations but not thewhole panoply of limitations.QUESTION: But here the prisoner suits, ithappens to be the caption for the provision. They use inthe text prison conditions but the caption is prisonsuits, isn't it?MR. WILLIAMS: Yes, it is, and then in thecontext of the section they go on and draw thedistinction. Sometimes it's all prisoner suits, sometimesit's just prisoner suits about prison conditions, so Ithink we really get no place in particular from the factof the caption. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: What would we do with a case wherethe prisoner said, these guards are beating up on me, andthe reason they are is that this prison doesn't giveguards any training, doesn't supervise them, so my suit is against the guards that beat me up, but they'realso against the officials in the prison who areresponsible for training and for monitoring? Those haveto go to --MR. WILLIAMS: They go two different directionsand, of course, as we know, that is common place inprisoner's suits, that they have multiple counts, multipleclaims, and some of them are dismissed early on, some ofthem go a little bit farther, and so forth. That is thenature of prison litigation in this particular case, thesuit against the guard for beating him up would notrequire exhaustion and would go forward. Prisonconditions claims obviously would have to be exhausted,had they not already been exhausted.QUESTION: Suppose I believe that policy wasrelevant, would I then be right to think that the isolatedbeating case is perhaps the strongest case where youshould require exhaustion, for the reason that the prisondoesn't want such a person on its payroll, and if theprisoner is right, they'll find out about it fast and getrid of him th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. WILLIAMS: No, actually, the difficulties ofremoving a civil servant who has --QUESTION: Oh, but I'll take action.MR. WILLIAMS: When you combine all of hisLaudermill rights with all of his rights under thecollective bargaining agreement, moving that guard ortaking meaningful disciplinary action against him is notgoing to be necessarily that fast.Of course, what you can do quickly is move theprisoner to another unit, but then you deal with what weknow to be the reality of the prison guard grapevine, sothat there's not an easy solution.QUESTION: You say that a prison guard whomaliciously beats up on people is just there to stay, soto speak?MR. WILLIAMS: Well, one would hope not.QUESTION: One would.MR. WILLIAMS: But the fact of the matter isthat, like all public employees, they enjoy a number ofdue process protections and, like most public employees,they also enjoy union protection.QUESTION: Many of them are not public employeesany more.MR. WILLIAMS: I'm sorry.QUESTION: Many of them are not public employees th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC any more. That's one reason some States have moved tohaving private companies manage prisons.MR. WILLIAMS: I agree. I agree. That is true.QUESTION: In those cases there wouldn't be aproblem in getting rid of a guard.MR. WILLIAMS: Well, there's probably still apretty effective union contract. The guards' union is apretty powerful force and, indeed, in this case that waspresent. There were the references to the fact that theguards' union was involved in a big dispute with theGovernor of Connecticut, who happened to be a friend ofMr. Nussle, so that that was present.The attempt by the State to take the title definition and move it over to title I think is equallyunsuccessful. The fact that it's in a different part ofthe code is one reason why Congress certainly wouldn'thave attempted to adopt it. Indeed, it's in a part of thecode, title , that deals with different issues fromthose which Congress was dealing with in its title amendments.Most importantly, of course, it is explicitlylimited by its terms to section , that is, title ,and is not applicable elsewhere and, as this Court held inthe Vermont Agency of National Resources case, that atleast suggests that it is inapplicable to title . th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Also of great interest, and I think notaddressed in the briefs, is that section has its owndefinition section, just as section does, but in thesection definition the term, prison conditions, orconditions of confinement, is not defined, butinterestingly, in section and in section there isa definition of the word, prisoner. The words aren'tprecisely the same, but the words appear to have the samemeaning.Now, why would Congress find it necessary todefine prisoner in section when they'd already done soin , unless it was because they took seriously thelimitation in , that the definitions there were limitedto section ?So I think that the attempt by the petitionersto borrow the section language and incorporate thatinto section simply won't work, and what we are leftto fall back on is the statutory construction argumentswhich I have previously made.I hate to say it, but I think I'm out of time. Thank you.QUESTION: You're not out of time, but you'rewelcome to sit down.MR. WILLIAMS: Out of ideas.QUESTION: Yes, okay. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC (Laughter.)QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. Williams.Mr. Blumenthal, you have minutes.REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF RICHARD BLUMENTHALON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERSGENERAL BLUMENTHAL: Thank you, Mr. ChiefJustice, and may it please the Court:I am not completely out of ideas. A few briefones: First, to expand, perhaps, on the point raised byJustice Breyer, I can't speak for all the State prisonsystems throughout the United States, but a prison guardwho did what Mr. Nussle claimed he or they did would betransferred, disciplined, perhaps fired by thiscommissioner. I am certain of that fact, because we haveassisted in that process.Indeed, some of those guards have beencriminally investigated, not guards involving thisincident, but some who have committed the kinds of actsthat Mr. Nussle might complain of. There are speedy,effective administrative remedies that can be applied toprotect prisoners, and it is in the interests, may Irespectfully suggest, of the State to do so to eliminateor at least reduce prison unrest, to make sure that itisn't held liable in more serious incidents, if they arebad guards. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC The administrators of modern prison systems havea very powerful and compelling self-interest in using thegrievance system as a management tool. Now, that may nothave been on Congress' mind. Congress undoubtedly wasconcerned, as the legislative history clearly shows, withthe fact that there were , of these lawsuits pending,prisoner petitions, constituting one-quarter of the entireFederal case load. Congress wanted to streamline thesystem and force all of these prison petitions to gothrough the exhaustion process, and there is no evidence,absolutely no evidence in the legislative history orelsewhere it intended to carve out or make an exceptionfor single incident excessive force cases and, indeed, theevidence is all to the contrary.McCarthy v. Bronson was a single incident,single episode of excessive force, but this Court saidthat it was included in the term, conditions ofconfinement, for purposes of the Magistrate Referral Act. That is the term that Congress understood it to be. Crawford-El confirms at , where I quoted it. It's inour view conclusive on this point, but we would submitthat the interests of the statute are best served,Congress' purposes are best served. The distinction thatis suggested by the respondents is unsupported inprinciple and unworkable in practice for many of the same th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC reasons that this Court said in Wilson v. Seiter that thesingle incident versus continuing practice distinction wassimply illogical and impractical.If the Court has no further questions, I havenothing further.CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: Thank you, GeneralBlumenthal. The case is submitted.(Whereupon, at : a.m., the case in theabove-entitled matter was submitted.) th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC 