 IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XFESTO CORPORATION, Petitioner ::v. : No. -SHOKETSU KINZOKU KOGYO KABUSHIKI CO., LTD., ET AL. ::- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XWashington, D.C.Tuesday, January , The above-entitled matter came on for oralargument before the Supreme Court of the United States at: a.m.APPEARANCES:ROBERT H. BORK, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf of thePetitioner.LAWRENCE G. WALLACE, ESQ., Deputy Solicitor General,Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on behalf ofthe United States, as amicus curiae, supportingvacatur and remand.ARTHUR I. NEUSTADT, ESQ., Arlington, Virginia; on behalfof the Respondents. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC C O N T E N T SORAL ARGUMENT OF ROBERT H. BORK, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioner LAWRENCE G. WALLACE, ESQ.On behalf of the United States, as amicus curiae, supporting vacatur and remand ARTHUR I. NEUSTADT, ESQ.On behalf of the Respondents REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OFROBERT H. BORK, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioner PAGE th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC P R O C E E D I N G S(: a.m.)CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: We'll hear argumentnow in No. -, Festo Corporation v. Shoketsu KinzokuKogyo Kabushiki. I hope I got that right. (Laughter.) CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: Mr. Bork.ORAL ARGUMENT OF ROBERT H. BORKON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERMR. BORK: Mr. Chief Justice, may it please theCourt:I refer to them as SMC. (Laughter.) MR. BORK: The Federal circuit's rules in thiscase ought to be reversed because it flatly contradictsthis Court's decision in Warner-Jenkinson, andfurthermore, it radically undermines the patent system. Ithink Warner-Jenkinson should be reaffirmed because it'sin keeping with the Patent Act, with the goals andpolicies of the patent system, and because it is muchfairer than the harsh inequities of this new rule whichthis case presents a prime example. Warner -- let me discuss the crucial differencesbetween Warner-Jenkinson and the Federal circuit's newrules. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC In the first place, Warner-Jenkinson holds thatprosecution history estoppel arises only when an amendmentto a patent surrenders subject matter -- and clearlysurrenders it -- in order to achieve patentability. TheFederal circuit holds to the contrary that any narrowingamendment, regardless of the reason for it, createsprosecution history estoppel. Second, the Warner-Jenkinson case holds that thereason for an amendment determines whether an estoppel iscreated. The Federal circuit denies that and holds thatthe reason is irrelevant, and if an amendment has thenarrowing effect, intended or not, it creates a completeestoppel. Thus, if the patent examiner said he found theclaims to be imprecise and the applicant made an amendmentto clarify what the examiner thought was imprecise, thatmight be held to be a narrowing amendment and the patentwould be unenforceable. And that is what happened toFesto in this case. And those results cannot be squaredwith Warner-Jenkinson. Third, the Federal circuit holds that anamendment creates an estoppel if it applies to any of thestatutory requirements for obtaining a patent, not justpatent -- not just patentability as defined by the PatentAct, but any of the requirements for obtaining a patent.Now, the Patent Act makes clear a distinction th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC between patentability and other requirements. Sections through come under the heading of patentability ofinventions, and they state the substantive requirementsfor getting a patent. The invention must be new anduseful. It must be not found in the prior art, and itmust not be obvious. Those are the only elements ofpatentability known in the law. And this Court's opinionin Graham against John Deere confirms that. No otherrequirement of the statute relates to patentability. The Federal circuit holds to the contrary, thatan amendment affecting any of the statutory requirementsfor getting a patent may generate estoppel, and thoserequirements include sections and of the act. Butthose sections relate to the form of the application andnot to the subject matter sought to be patented. QUESTION: Is it clear most of the time, Mr.Bork, whether the amendment is for purposes of , ,and ? Can you pick up the patent history and -- andtell at a glance whether it's a or a and purpose that generated the amendment? MR. BORK: I think one can. For example, inthis case you'll see in the Stoll patent -- there are twopatents, of course, in play here, the Stoll patent and theCarroll patent. In this case, the patent examiner saysthat he objects on the grounds that the claim is stated in th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC an improper form, is multiply dependent, and also thatit's imprecise. He's not sure what it means. Now, thatis quite clear that those are and objections, notto the subject matter sought to be patented. QUESTION: But if you're the applicant and youget that response from the Patent Office, during thecourse of the amendment might you not rethink and -- andclarify what you're doing under as well? That'swhat --MR. BORK: Oh, if the -- if the applicantdecides to amend in a way that surrenders subject matter,it disclaims subject matter, the fact that the processbegan with a -- with the examiner's on grounds of formdoesn't affect it. If he surrenders subject matter, thatsubject matter is gone and the equivalents to it are gonetoo. QUESTION: But wasn't that the argument herewith reference to the seals and the magnetized ordemagnetized cylinder? MR. BORK: There was an argument to that effect,but if you look at the patent -- at the prosecutionhistory which is of both the Stoll and the Carrollpatents, which are in the volume of the transcript,there is no abandonment of any subject matter. In the Stoll patent, there is no abandonment of th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC subject matter. In the Carroll patent, there is. However, the subject matter which was abandoned had norelevance to the lawsuit. It wasn't what was -- what wassued on, so that there is, in operational terms, nodisclaimer or surrender of subject matter in either ofthese patents. QUESTION: Mr. Bork, both the Solicitor Generaland an amicus, the IEEE, suggest that a -- a differentflexible bar test would be appropriate. Would you commenton those two proposals? MR. BORK: Justice O'Connor, I think they'remuch too narrow. The only rationale that makes any senseas to a flexible bar proposal or any bar proposal is thatif you've disclaimed something, then the equivalent ofsubject matter -- the equivalents to the disclaimedsubject matter are barred by estoppel, but otherequivalents that don't go to what was surrendered are notbarred. Therefore, the -- the rule of the -- the bar, thequestion of the scope of the bar, relates closely to thequestion -- the first question presented in this case --QUESTION: Let's say there's --MR. BORK: -- as to what was surrendered. QUESTION: Let's say there's an amendment under where -- where you agree that there can be anestoppel. Should there be a presumption there? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. BORK: A presumption -- if there is a clearsurrender, there's no presumption. It's -- it's a -- it'sa waiver. It's -- you've estopped yourself. If it'sunclear what -- why you have done it, then this Court inWarner-Jenkinson says there be a remand under apresumption that what you did was for purposes ofpatentability, what you surrendered was for purposes ofpatentability, and if you cannot rebut that presumption,then you lose. QUESTION: Wasn't it more, Mr. Bork, than just apresumption if you couldn't -- I thought Warner-Jenkinsonsaid where you do not establish any reason for theamendment, the Court did use the word presume. It saidthe Court should presume that the patent application has asubstantial reason relating to patentability. And thenthe following sentence is, in those circumstances,prosecution history estoppel would bar the application ofthe doctrine of equivalents. So, that sounds to me likean absolute bar rule, that if you don't -- if the reasonis unexplained, the consequence is a complete bar. MR. BORK: Oh, well, consequence is a bar as tothat. Yes, as to that area. But I guess I perhaps didn'texpress myself well. If the appellate court, this Court, looks andsays, I don't know the reason -- as in Warner-Jenkinson, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC it was unclear why there was a lower limit of pH set onthat process -- I don't know -- I don't know why youamended to set that lower limit, there is a presumptionthat you did it for a reason related to patentability,which would create a complete bar. However, on remand,you get a chance to rebut that presumption with evidence. If you don't rebut it, it's a bar. QUESTION: The -- the Federal circuit issupposed to be an expert in this and they say thatinventors or people who are trying to invent things aresupposed to be able to read the claims, and that's it. And if you didn't make your claim properly, particularlywhen you had a second chance, that's your problem, and anyother system -- any other system is going to really goback to what used to be called central claiming where theclaims point to rather than define the invention. Andthat's just not workable today. We'll get an equivalentsclaim in every case. And so, let's make an exceptionwhere the lawyer couldn't really do anything about it. That's called unforeseeability. MR. BORK: Well, the fact --QUESTION: With that possible exception, whichthey maybe should have mentioned but didn't, it's up tothe lawyer and it's his fault. And the reason is if hedidn't do it properly, we punish him because we have to th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC have certainty for people who want to invent other things. Now, that I take it is the heart of what's being said onthe other side, and I'd like to know your response. MR. BORK: Well, there are a couple of responsesto that, Justice Breyer. In the first place, let me say that the solutionthe Federal circuit has devised is -- doesn't relate tothe problem. If the problem is the unworkability of theequivalents test, then the answer is to abolishequivalents, not to -- and that doesn't depend on whetheror not there's been an amendment. And if you're going toabolish equivalents, the way to do it, so that you don'thave this terrible retroactive effect, is to have thePatent and Trademark Office engage in a rulemakingfunction, a rulemaking which has a prospective effectonly, or have Congress sit down and do a rule -- legislatethat has a prospective effect only. QUESTION: Would the PTO have authority to dothat by regulation in the absence of congressionalauthorization? MR. BORK: I think it has authorization to do --to make rules of that sort, Mr. Chief Justice.But on the -- on the question that -- I'm sorry,Justice Breyer. QUESTION: They're not arguing for abolition. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC They're not arguing for abolition. MR. BORK: No --QUESTION: They're arguing for hold the lawyerto a very tough standard, but a small equitable exceptionin the instance where the lawyer really couldn't really doanything about it, namely where it's not foreseeable thatthis kind of really copied device is going to comeabout --MR. BORK: Well --QUESTION: -- because the language isn't -- youknow, English doesn't work perfectly, the Englishlanguage, and because there could be future inventionsthat might cause that to be unforeseeable. MR. BORK: That is true, but what they havesuggested in effect is that the lawyer put into theliteral claims he files a claim for all the equivalentsthat he can foresee. Now, he can't foresee most of theequivalents, and if he did that, I think you'd have apatent claim that would look roughly like the tax code.QUESTION: No, because they have ways of doingit. They say all the things like, or they say -- youknow, I can't remember. There's a special technical wordfor it where you -- you try to do it in terms of function. There are ways of doing it. MR. BORK: Function, way and result. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: And the briefs are filled -- youknow, the briefs are filled with them, how -- how easy itis. The other side says, no, no, it's very easy, and yourside says, oh, really? It isn't so easy. MR. BORK: Well, you're referring, I think,Justice Breyer, to the testing of -- for equivalentscalled function, way and result? QUESTION: No, no. I'm not thinking -- I'm notthinking that. I'm thinking there's a -- there is a wayof drafting a claim where you put in the claim -- youdon't describe the thing exactly. You describe what thething does. MR. BORK: Well, if you do that, Justice Breyer,I don't think you've solved the problem of unworkability. I don't think it's unworkable in the first place, but Idon't think you've solved the problem of the litigationthat's going to take place and the difficulty judges aregoing to have in distinguishing the case that is coveredfrom the case that is not covered. I think it's exactlythe same problem as you'd get with the application of thedoctrine of equivalents. QUESTION: May I ask? I've had a lot of troubleunderstanding this patent, to be very honest with you. Some patents I can understand. This one I found verydifficult. And one of your -- the changes, as I th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC understand it, is in the early draft of the claim therewas no reference to the nonmagnetic material that was usedin the tube and that that was the -- that was one of thechanges that -- that was made. And your suggestion isthat was -- had nothing to do with the subject --patentability. It's just change of description orsomething like that, if I understand you. But the patent itself seems to be a patent on amagnetic relationship between different elements of the --of the item, and just at first blush, it seemed to me thata -- that a -- an element that described a nonmagneticmaterial would be rather important. And your position isit's of no importance. Could you just comment a littlebit on this problem for me --MR. BORK: Yes, the --QUESTION: -- so I can get a betterunderstanding of it? MR. BORK: The Festo patent specified amagnetized material in the tube, and SMC used a aluminumalloy. QUESTION: This is in the Stoll patent I think,isn't it? MR. BORK: Yes. And SMC used a aluminum alloy, which is notmagnetizable material. However, it does conduct magnetism th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC well enough -- very slightly, but well enough -- tocomplete the circuit and to do what the Festo patent doesso that it is an equivalent in that sense to themagnetizable sleeve. If it were pure aluminum, itwouldn't conduct the magnetism, but it isn't. It's analloy. QUESTION: Suppose that I was going to buy yourproduct and I knew what the German patents contained andyou were trying to sell it to me, and I asked you this. What does your product do that the product covered by theGerman patents doesn't do? What would you say? MR. BORK: Well, I think I would -- I wouldpoint to the sealing rings and the magnetizable --QUESTION: Exactly, and -- and therefore, theyare saying that's at the heart of this thing. The sealingrings enabled the -- enabled you to use a larger pistonbecause it could come closer to the side of the cylinder. And here they've copied -- they -- they -- so, you definedit this way, we didn't follow it. MR. BORK: I beg your pardon? You defined itthis way and they didn't follow it? They did follow it.The only difference between their -- our claim said fourrings: two guide rings and two sealing rings. They hadtwo guide rings and one sealing ring. QUESTION: Exactly, but the heart of your th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC invention was a way of wiping the inside of the tube --MR. BORK: The outside. QUESTION: -- as I understand it, so that thepiston could come closer to the inside of the tube. Andyou defined that by using two rings. And they say, well,that's what the heart of the invention was, these tworings, and we didn't use two rings. MR. BORK: They used --QUESTION: We used one ring. MR. BORK: They used one ring which performedexactly the same function. QUESTION: That's -- you say it performedexactly the same. They say it didn't quite work quite aswell.problem. MR. BORK: Well --QUESTION: And now this is the heart of theMR. BORK: I don't know that they --QUESTION: The -- let me show you why. Becausethe Federal circuit is saying inventors generally have toput this kind of an issue before a jury or a judge whodoesn't understand it too well. And that's why there's alack of certainty and that's why we have to have the rulewe have. MR. BORK: If they put before the jury or the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC judge the question of whether a narrowing has taken place,they'll be litigating just as much and there will be justas much uncertainty as there is on whether this thing issubstantially the same as that thing. You -- this -- onething this new rule does not do is eliminate uncertainty. In fact, we will -- it just shifts the area of litigation,so that I don't think that anything is solved by this. It just -- nothing is solved by it and you payan enormous price in terms of future patents. If you lookat future patents, the future patentee knows he's notgoing to get the same protection he had before because ifhe dares to amend -- and almost all patents are amended. It's just inevitable. That's the way -- that's the waythe process goes. If he's -- if he amends and if anamendment is requested by the examiner, he can eitherrefuse it and appeal. That adds about years to thetime, to the years the prosecution history usuallytakes. Now, the patent started running when you filed. So, now you've lost years, the most valuable years underyour patent. And nobody is going to like that. Or he can turn to the trade secret system, or hecan file a claim so narrow that they -- they don't fullyprotect what he's invented but also that don't requireamendments. The -- if you -- if you get patents of thatsort, which are of very little value, you don't protect th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC the innovation function that patents are supposed toprotect. Pfizer and other amici have pointed out that toget a drug to market costs in excess of $ million. Nobody is going to spend over $ million tocommercialize a product that cannot be protected. So,you've done -- you've done an enormous amount of damage tothe innovation process in this thing. Worse --QUESTION: Mr. Bork, --MR. BORK: -- the people who are really hard hitare the people, -- the ,, patents that areoutstanding now because those people had no warning. Whenthey -- when they got their patents, amendments werefreely made, and that was just the way it worked. Theexaminer and the patent attorney sat down and theyexchanged views and they worked it out and they amended tosatisfy the examiner. Now all of those patents arevirtually worthless, which is a --QUESTION: May I just ask you a question aboutthey're virtually worthless because the doctrine ofequivalents is not available to those patentees? That's-- that's basically the point, is it? MR. BORK: That's right. Well, that's right. QUESTION: Now, the one thing I didn't --there's a volume of briefs in the file here and I can't th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC say I've read them all, but do the briefs anywhere tell uswhat percentage of all -- successful infringement claimsrest on the doctrine of equivalents? MR. BORK: I don't recall that the briefs everdo tell us that. QUESTION: Because your assumption is that avery significant portion must be based on --MR. BORK: Oh, yes. Oh, yes. Oh, yes. Well --QUESTION: Because there's a lot of -- a lot ofcases in which it's just an infringement, a literalinfringement.MR. BORK: That's true, but if a -- if a --QUESTION: And that area is not touched by this.MR. BORK: No, but if a copyist wants to avoidliteral infringement, he takes an amended element andalters it slightly, and he's home free under the Federalcircuit rule. And that's what happened here. You have adevice which, for all practical purposes, is identical tothe Festo patents and has now destroyed the value of theFesto patents because Festo didn't foresee back in the's, when it got these patents, that the Federalcircuit was going to change the law as it has in . And I --QUESTION: Or it didn't foresee that therewasn't really a big difference between nonmagnetic th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC material and magnetic material. I'm not using the rightwords, but it didn't foresee that something he -- theydescribed as significant in the claims was really notsignificant. MR. BORK: Well, it's significant enough. The-- the fact is that the aluminum alloy -- the alloy makesit perform the same function as the magnetizable material,and what they didn't foresee was that the law was going tochange so that the amendment was going to destroy theirpatent.QUESTION: Mr. Bork, would you -- would youcomment on the Federal circuit's view that they weren'treally changing anything, but they had two inconsistentlines of decisions? One was the complete bar rule and theother was the flexible rule.MR. BORK: I think they had two decisions thatin -- in some sense were regarded as -- they claimed to becomplete bar rules. I think that's a -- that's quite astretch. If you look at the uninterrupted Supreme Courtprecedent, there is no case like what the Federal circuithas done now. The doctrine of equivalents has been aroundfor over years, and this Court has consistentlyapplied it. And they -- there was no complete bar in theSupreme Court jurisprudence. I don't think there's much-- any complete bar in the Federal circuit jurisprudence th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC either, but whatever it was, everybody went forward on theunderstanding that the kind of law that was reaffirmed inWarner-Jenkinson was the law. And that's why I find it particularly odd thatthe Government should say that those people are chargedwith knowledge back then of what was going to happen now.And that is doubly odd because the Government inWarner-Jenkinson filed a brief taking the position that wetake here today, and now they say that we should haveknown better. They didn't know better. I don't know howwe would know better.I should like to reserve the remainder of mytime, if I may. QUESTION: May I ask you, before you step down,whether you think there's a relevant difference betweenclaim elements and claim limitations? MR. BORK: I think -- I think they're two wordsfor the same thing. QUESTION: Very well, Mr. Bork. Mr. Wallace, we'll hear from you. ORAL ARGUMENT OF LAWRENCE G. WALLACEON BEHALF OF THE UNITED STATES, AS AMICUS CURIAE,SUPPORTING VACATUR AND REMANDQUESTION: Mr. Wallace, Mr. Bork says theGovernment has changed its position from the time it filed th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC its brief in Warner-Jenkinson. Do you agree with that?MR. WALLACE: I do not, Mr. Chief Justice. Wedid say that amendments made to avoid prior art andamendments made for other purposes relating to securingthe patent present different problems because amendmentsmade to avoid prior art are almost always narrowingamendments, and we think that the Federal circuit, inspeaking of narrowing amendments, really was speaking ofsurrendering subject matter which is the formulation thatthe petitioner prefers; whereas, amendments made for otherpurposes have to be scrutinized with particular carebecause they often are not narrowing amendments. Andindeed, in some of the post-Festo decisions of the Federalcircuit, the court has held that there was -- it was not anarrowing amendment and therefore there's no bar. But they can be narrowing amendments. They canbe, even though in the guise of addressing the examiner'sconcern under , they could actually be narrowing thesubject matter of the claim. And in that instance, the --the estoppel would apply. QUESTION: How does one figure that out? Giveus a -- an example. Part of the argument is this is verydifficult to figure out, that -- that the new systemthat's -- that's been brought in is -- is as complicatedto administer in -- in the courts as -- as the old. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. WALLACE: A simple example would be inWarner-Jenkinson itself. If there was an addition of alimitation on the pH levels from to in the amendment,if the examiner in that case had said that thespecifications are not clear enough and that amendment wasadded in response to that, even though the examiner hadraised other concerns, but the applicant purported to addthat limitation in response to the examiner's concernsabout the specificity, it still would be adding alimitation and it would be an implied disclaimer of subject matter in comparison with the initial claim. Andour view would be that estoppel would apply.QUESTION: But the idea of estoppel, as Iunderstand it, is that a person is prevented from takingcontrary positions, and it seems to me in your examplethat it's not necessarily a contrary position. MR. WALLACE: Well, it's contrary in the senseof what fair inferences can be drawn by the public fromthe record of the prosecution history. When he startedoff -- the applicant started off without this limitationand then added the limitation, the limitation speaks foritself in narrowing the scope of the claim elements. Andthat -- that is the central problem of this case. If prosecution history estoppel is to havemeaningful effect, once we settle where it applies, which th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC seems to me to be the lesser question, it necessarilyfollows, if it's to have meaningful effect, that the claimelements that have been narrowed by the patent applicant,in order to secure the issuance of the patent, cannot beafforded the same or almost the same protection againstnon-literal infringement that would be available to themunder the doctrine of equivalents if they had not beennarrowed.QUESTION: Is there -- is there a way of doingthis? Look, the Federal circuit itself thinks that itsrule is a crude effort to deal with a problem that mayhave the adverse consequences that -- that Mr. Borkpredicted. And if so, they'll want to change their minds. Now, is there a way under the law that they could have theauthority to change their minds if it turns out that thisexperiment doesn't work? MR. WALLACE: Well, I -- I think so. These aredoctrines that have been developed. Prosecution historyestoppel and its effects are really equitable in origin,and the courts have the authority to reexamine theapplication of equitable doctrines in light of experience.The -- the real question here, as we see it, iswhat -- how do you reconcile the inferences that arelegitimately to be drawn by the public with thepatentholder's need for protection from unfair copying. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC And this is not a matter of small moment because if -- thedoctrine of equivalents does not apply, but the all-elements test still is applicable, as the opinions belowreflect, to claims of literal infringement or non-literalinfringement. So, we have suggested an answer that we drawdirectly from this Court's decisions. We first look atExhibit Supply, a decision, in which the Court saidthat when the applicant narrows the claim, he necessarilyis recognizing the difference between what was originallyacclaimed -- claimed and what the narrowing amendmentclaims, and there's an implied disclaimer of all that isembraced within that difference. And he's recognizing thesignificance of that difference. And it -- the Courtcited a number of its prior decisions at that time. So, we think that applicants have been fairly onnotice that prosecution history estoppel does apply tonarrowing amendments and that there is considerable riskin narrowing claims and that they have to do that withgreat care with that in mind. QUESTION: Mr. Wallace, the Government isproposing a change, a backing off from what the CAFC did,but proposing some new formulation or test. How does thetest you propose differ from that proposed by theInstitute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers do you th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC think? MR. WALLACE: Well, I think they take -- theystart from what --QUESTION: They -- they key it intoforeseeability somehow. MR. WALLACE: Yes, but they start by assumingthe validity of the flexible bar rule and trying totighten it a little bit. We think that the court ofappeals was right. QUESTION: And so do you apparently. MR. WALLACE: Well, we -- we think the court ofappeals was right in saying that the way the -- it hasbeen applying the flexible bar rule did not properlyrecognize what had been surrendered in the course of theprosecution history estoppel. But we -- we come out inmuch the same place at the end even though the differencesbetween those and the Federal Bar Association alsorecommends a presumption and shift of the burden of proofsimilar to ours, but they're -- they're unwilling torecognize that everything, as the Court said in ExhibitSupply, that was surrendered is necessarily part of theimplied disclaimer. They say, well, even if you went downto your pH in Warner-Jenkinson, as long as you couldshow that you could have claimed , we should treat thatthe same as if you did claim . We think that the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC inferences to be drawn by the public from the prosecutionhistory estoppel are not that loose. But we do think the court of appeals went toofar in saying that applicants were on notice that anabsolute bar would necessarily apply to all claims, and wehave made our suggestions about burden of proof andpresumptions to afford further protection in cases wherethe applicant -- the patentholder can show that it wouldbe unfair to treat --QUESTION: Mr. Wallace, with respect to that,your second possibility, the second kind of escape hatchfor the patentholder, as I understand it, relates to acase in which, in effect, it was impossible to be any moreprecise, to exclude any more precisely than they did. Myquestion is, doesn't that in effect invite thepatentholder to make that kind of a claim in every case? And if that is, in fact, going to be an exception toabsolute bar, doesn't it mean that we're going to litigateit in every case?MR. WALLACE: Well, we're quite worried aboutthat. We caution that the versatility of languagerequires skepticism about that, but we -- we were alsosensitive about the difficulties in some particular areasof new technology, biotechnology, and the like, although Ipressed the Patent Office and they couldn't come up with a th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC concrete example. QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. Wallace. Mr. Neustadt, we'll hear from you.ORAL ARGUMENT OF ARTHUR I. NEUSTADTON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTSMR. NEUSTADT: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court:First, I'd like to direct a response to JusticeBreyer's question concerning that section of the statutethat -- that you were looking for. That's , paragraph, which says that you can claim the function of anelement and you get protection for everything that hasthat function if it is the same as what's in thespecification or its equivalent. Next, I'd like to address my attention toJustice Stevenson's question with respect to literalinfringement and doctrine of equivalents infringement. Wewere faced with the same question and we made an analysisof all the cases that were decided by the Federal circuitin the year . We found that there were cases thateither held for the patentee or indicated they were goingto hold for the patentee with respect to preliminaryinjunction. With respect to those cases, all but fourwere literal infringement. So, the answer to yourquestion, for the year , is that of the cases th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC were directed to literal infringement and not -- notdoctrine of equivalents infringement. And you must keep in mind that the Federalcircuit in this case, with respect to the doctrine ofequivalents, didn't rule on the doctrine of equivalents ingeneral. They only ruled on the doctrine of equivalentswith respect to when a patentee switches from one positionto another. He starts with one claim. For some reason hesees that in order to get his patent, he is going to haveto narrow. A good example is the example that Festo uses,going from adhesives to glue. You claim adhesives broadlywhen you start. You're going to get protection for alladhesives. Then you find there's prior art or somethingelse, maybe your specification isn't enabled, and you sayI'm going to have to go to glue. What the Federal circuit says for thatparticular claim element, when you go from adhesives toglue, you are telling the public that you're going torely --QUESTION: But may I just interrupt with this --MR. NEUSTADT: Yes. QUESTION: -- this observation? But -- but theresult of your rule is that if you do make that change andgo to -- to glue, you lose the doctrine of equivalents th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC with respect to that element, but someone who originallyframed the claim in the way that you ended up with doesnot have the same opportunity to rely on equivalents thatyou do. Would you comment on that? MR. NEUSTADT: That is correct. This was a point that this Court addressed inExhibit Supply and that is because claims are notinterpreted just as they stand. They're interpreted inaccordance with their prosecution history. Where you havean original claim that has no prosecution history, thenit's much tougher for the public to read and figure outwhat -- what glue or adhesives mean. But where you havethis change from one position to another, a change thatevery patent attorney resists, then the Federal circuitsays this is a narrowing that the public is entitled torely upon. So, there -- there is a very significantchange even though you have the exact same words. To refer to Mr. Breyer's question about whetheror not the Federal circuit has the power to change whatthey've done, the answer is, of course, prosecutionhistory estoppel is judge-made law. There is no statuteconcerning it. QUESTION: This is scarcely an encouraging view.(Laughter.) QUESTION: I mean, if -- if we're looking for th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC some sort of certainty in the area, to say that theFederal circuit has now come up with a relatively newdoctrine but they're free to change it if it doesn't workis not the most auspicious recommendation for thatdoctrine.(Laughter.) QUESTION: I presume it would be changedretroactively, just as it was introduced retroactively.MR. NEUSTADT: Well, I don't -- I don't thinkit's going to be changed, and I don't think there'sanything retroactive because the Federal circuit decisionwas entirely consistent with this Court's precedent inExhibit Supply and also Warner-Jenkinson. In ExhibitSupply, this Court said that where a patentee makes achange to avoid prior art for that particular element, hedisclaims and abandons everything between --QUESTION: But the Federal circuit went furtherthan that here. It doesn't have to be a change just toavoid prior art, does it? MR. NEUSTADT: That is correct, Your Honor. Butwhat they did was follow what this Court said in Warner-Jenkinson concerning what relates to patentability. TheCourt in Warner-Jenkinson said -- this Court -- that --that we have used this with respect to prior art, citingExhibit Supply, but they didn't say it is limited to prior th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC art. What the Federal circuit then said --QUESTION: But in -- in the John Deere case,certainly the term patentability was used just for thatpurpose. MR. NEUSTADT: For prior art? QUESTION: Yes. MR. NEUSTADT: I'm not sure, Your Honor. What the Federal circuit did was they said --and there was almost virtually unanimity on the court, to -- that when you make this narrowing for a purposerelated to patentability or for a statutory requirementfor patentability, then the public can view that andrecognize and rely upon it. So, the extension from, ifyou will, and to was of very little extensionat all. QUESTION: Well, are you using the termpatentability to include ? MR. NEUSTADT: Yes. QUESTION: I mean, that's part of the problemhere. MR. NEUSTADT: Yes, yes. QUESTION: Well, I -- I think that's one of theissues in this case. MR. NEUSTADT: Well, is not just a matter ofform. is addressed to some of the most important th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC issues for a patent application, such as whether or notthe application enables the invention. The quid pro quofor the public with respect to giving the exclusivity tothe patentee is they get an enabling disclosure. If thereis no enabling disclosure, then the public gets nothing. Enabling disclosure is , so is just not form. If you are talking about form and clarification,usually when you clarify a claim, you don't narrow it andso the result is that would not be controlled by theFederal circuit rule. What the Federal circuit --QUESTION: Well, is -- is that really so? Imean, every time you have a vague claim, you at least havean opportunity to say, well, it covers more than acontrasting narrow claim would be. So, I'm not sure thatyou can draw this categorical distinction. MR. NEUSTADT: Usually when a patent attorneywants to -- is concerned with narrowing his claim, hedoesn't want to narrow his claim because he gets less forhis client. He will try to clarify it in a way thatdoesn't narrow, if that is the examiner's concern. So,usually clarifications are not narrowings and are notaffected by the Federal circuit rule.What the Federal circuit issue is -- is directedto is actually changing a position for a statutory th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC requirement for patentability. That can be prior art. Itcan be non-enabling disclosure. For example, this Courthas held in Crawford v. Heysinger in the 's -- appliedprosecution history estoppel to a inoperability rejectionwhich was a rejection. And so, this is the reason whythe Federal circuit had very little difficulty and endedup with an -to- vote when they said that, yes,amendments are not limited to avoid prior art. They coverother instances where you narrow. And the key -- the key is narrowing. Patentattorneys hate to narrow. It gives their clients lessprotection. They don't want to narrow unless the onlychoice is not getting a patent. So, they put thatnarrowing language in there. And all that the Federalcircuit is saying when they put that narrowing language inthere, they should be held to it. And the reason they'reheld to it is because of the public --QUESTION: Well, they're saying more than that. They're saying they're held to it for the entire element,and that's where I have -- have great problems with --with what the circuit does. And -- and it seems to me avast extension over what we thought about in Warner-Jenkinson. MR. NEUSTADT: In -- in Warner-Jenkinson thisCourt said that if we do not know the reason for the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC amendment, we're going to presume that it relates topatentability, and when we make that presumption, if it'snot rebutted, it will act as a bar. So, this Court inWarner-Jenkinson set forth a complete bar. Complete baris nothing new. QUESTION: Well, why isn't that enough? Why --why is an additional rule sought? MR. NEUSTADT: The -- the additional rulerelates to the fact that in the Federal circuit, not inthis Court, there was what was called a flexible bar rule,and what they did was if you initially claimed glue andcame back to adhesives and then -- I'm sorry -- youclaimed adhesives and then you had to narrow it to glue,then in a lawsuit you found someone using adhesives, youwould then say, well, my glue is really the same asadhesives under the doctrine of equivalents. And theFederal circuit in this decision is saying that you can'tdo that. But previously the Federal circuit had theflexible bar rule, and the flexible bar rule said that ifyou went from adhesives to glue, and you didn't have to goall that way to glue -- maybe you could have stoppedsomewhere in between -- they say you can then look atwhere you might have been able to stop. This is in theIntel brief, could have, should have, and would have. And th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC they say we can take it back to something in betweenadhesives and glue. And the problem with that is that thepublic has no notice of what the claim covers. Someoneout there who wants to innovate in the area between glueand adhesives has to know what he can do, and the Federalcircuit rule enables them now to say that, yes, that claimmeans glue and we don't have to worry about something ifwe don't use glue. And --QUESTION: How would the SG's test apply tothat, do you think? MR. NEUSTADT: The -- the SG's test and also theIEEE test that you referred to -- the SE says -- and his-- his rule is a little better than the flexible bar rule.The SG says we're going to have a complete barpresumption, and the presumption is going to have to beovercome by the patentee, and he's going to have to showthat this was unforeseeable. But this rule has all of theuncertainties that create all the problems with theflexible bar rule, and therefore it really is not animprovement. The court's decision has been in effect for months. It's really worked just fine. There have beenreally no problems. Patent prosecution hasn't changed atall. There haven't been any cases that follow that --QUESTION: Can you give me -- can you give me th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC some sense as to how often patent applications areamended?MR. NEUSTADT: I don't think there are anystatistics. Patent applications -- I'd say percent,maybe more. But -- but that doesn't distinguish betweenamendments and narrowing amendments. Usually it's thenarrowing amendments that -- that trigger the Federalcircuit rule. And with respect to --QUESTION: Because Mr. Bork says you're justgoing to transfer now the load to the appeals within thePatent Office and we're going to have this long, longrunning time. MR. NEUSTADT: No. QUESTION: And it seems to me that that --that's a -- a very serious consequence if -- if it in factwill follow. MR. NEUSTADT: We haven't notice thatconsequence and that just isn't happening in the PTO. Yousee nothing in the SG PTO brief.QUESTION: Well, maybe everybody is waiting forthis case. (Laughter.) MR. NEUSTADT: The -- that may be but theFederal circuit has -- has been applying this case in all th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC of its cases. It's simplified a lot of the decisions. What it's meant is that patent attorneys can now advisetheir clients that, yes, you can do this; no, you can't dothat. Whereas, under the flexible bar rule, they wereunable to do so.In -- in -- when you claim, the claiming iscentral to -- to the system -- to our system. Theapplicant has a disclosure. From that disclosure, he candecide what it is he wants to claim, and he can claimvarious elements and he usually does it as broadly aspossible. The examiner then examines the claim on exactlywhat he claims, not the disclosure. The patentee ismaster of his claims. He decides what the issue is goingto be. If the examiner rejects the claim that wasselected by the patentee, then -- then the patentee or theapplicant says, well, there's nothing I can do now. Ieither have a choice of not getting a patent or I've gotto limit my patent. So, he comes in and he limits hispatent. He goes from adhesives to glue. That patent issues and the public can then lookat it. The patent tells you what you can't do, but moreimportantly, it tells you what you can do. And the publiccan do no better than look at the claim and itsprosecution history, and when it does that, it can look th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC and decide what it can do. And this results in increasedinnovation. This Court in Markman, interpreting claims, saidthat claims, if they are uncertain -- and this was theneed for judges rather than juries to interpret them. Ifthey're uncertain, they foreclose an area of technology. If you have uncertainty between here and here, no one willinnovate in that area because they recognize, if they'resuccessful, they're just going to be sued for infringementunder the doctrine of equivalents. They may have aninjunction entered against them, which is going to stoptheir production line, and they're going to have to giveback profits which the patentee is going to ask for inlost profits. So, everything really turns on the claims, andthe patent attorney has the tools to do it. He can use, paragraph . He always claims as broadly aspossible. All that the Federal circuit has --QUESTION: The argument you're now making is awonderful argument against the whole doctrine ofequivalents, which I thought we had rejected. MR. NEUSTADT: The difference -- the differencebetween that is that the Federal circuit has limited itsholding to the time when the patent applicant goes from th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC one claim to another claim where he narrows the claim. Ifhe doesn't narrow the claim, there's no problem with thedoctrine of equivalents. Also, if he doesn't narrow anelement, there's no doctrine of equivalents. All that the Federal circuit has said here isthat the balance shifts with respect to the point thatyou're referring to when the patent applicant, with hiseyes open, knows that he's got a problem and he's going tohave to narrow.QUESTION: Well, that may well be. But -- butif -- if the considerations that you're raising now are asforceful as you think they are, we should simply abolishthe doctrine of equivalents. That -- that would givegreat certainty to the patent law, and all of the -- allof the things that you assert would be achieved. Thepatentee is on notice and he should be as precise aspossible, blah, blah, blah. MR. NEUSTADT: Well, that's not an issue beforethe Court. But the -- the Federal circuit does restrictthe doctrine in -- doctrine of equivalents in other areas. For example, you can have an argument that you make inyour -- in your amendment, and that argument can then beused against you as an estoppel. That's not an issue inthis case. The Federal circuit also handled an issue where th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC an applicant will disclose, say, three things, A, B, andC, and he'll only claim A. And then he'll come back andhe'll say, under the doctrine of equivalents, A covers Band C. And the Federal circuit deals with that. Butthat's not an issue in this case. What the Federal circuit has done is they'vehandled the exact issue that this Court handled in ExhibitSupply and in Warner-Jenkinson. And that is that thebalance shifts when you make an amendment that relates topatentability and --QUESTION: Mr. Neustadt, would you -- would youtell us why the approach of a complete bar is consistentwith the approach taken in Warner-Jenkinson where theCourt did not want to have a rigid -- a rule with noflexibility, and so it created this rebuttablepresumption?MR. NEUSTADT: Yes. The Court in Warner-Jenkinson was trying to decide between amendments thatrelate to patentability and amendments that do not relateto patentability. And the petitioner in that case wasasserting that that distinction was not an importantdistinction. The Court in Warner-Jenkinson said we're notgoing to have a bright line rule that this complete bar isgoing to apply to every single amendment. It's only goingto apply to those amendments that relate to patentability. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC And the Court said in the past we've used prior art asrelating to patentability, but the Court did not limit itto that. The Federal circuit then came back and one ofthe questions they had, they said, is and -- isrelates to patentability under this Court's decisionlimited to and . And this is question one in theFederal circuit. And the Federal circuit held virtuallyunanimous, to , that relates to patentability is notlimited to and . QUESTION: But that's simply an interpretationof our cases. Or it should have been at any rate. And Idare say we're in a better position to interpret our casesthan the Federal circuit. MR. NEUSTADT: Well, I think the -- the Federalcircuit was saying that the cases of this Court were notabsolutely controlling, but what they would do would beconsistent with this Court. And that was -- that was theeffect of their holding. But if you look carefully -- look more carefullyat this Court's cases, this Court's cases we submit in ourbrief actually do control and would have necessitated theFederal circuit to reach that verdict. This Court, as Isaid --QUESTION: Well, there is an -- I think I agree th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC with Justice Ginsburg, as she suggested. I think there isan inconsistency between Warner-Jenkinson and the positionyou're taking. MR. NEUSTADT: An inconsistency? QUESTION: Yes. MR. NEUSTADT: I don't think so because the --the --QUESTION: Well, the remand in Warner-Jenkinson.MR. NEUSTADT: Yes. The remand in Warner-Jenkinson, as specifically defined there, was for theFederal circuit to determine whether or not the amendmentthat was made to change the pH to related topatentability. The petitioner was saying you don't haveto determine whether it relates to patentability. Theremand said, Federal circuit, you now look and tell uswhether or not it relates to patentability, and that'swhat the Federal circuit did. And then as they had a few more cases afterWarner-Jenkinson -- and they had -- they had disputesamong the judges -- they said we're going to resolve thisin this -- in this case. And they not only said they'regoing to rehear it en banc, but they said we're going tohave five questions. And the first question was -- wasJustice Ginsburg's question. QUESTION: But I didn't mean it to be. I meant th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC to focus you on the second question which you say is themore important of the two, and --MR. NEUSTADT: The complete bar, yes.QUESTION: -- and just saying that in Warner-Jenkinson, the Court didn't want to freeze things, so ithad this rebuttable presumption. You do want to, when youget to your question two, say absolute bar. MR. NEUSTADT: The absolute bar was in Warner-Jenkinson. In Warner-Jenkinson, this Court said if theamendment relates to patentability, then there's going tobe an absolute bar. The words this Court used was bar.They didn't use absolute bar because a bar is a bar. But-- but -- and this Court was just following Exhibit Supplywhich had that same bar in that. QUESTION: Well, I thought everybody agreed thatthe question was open, that this Court did not decide.MR. NEUSTADT: The Federal circuit said thattheir decision was not controlled by Exhibit Supply. Bothour side and the Government side said that it iscontrolled by Exhibit Supply and that the Federal circuitwould have had to have reached that conclusion anyway. And -- and the -- the very plain language of ExhibitSupply is that when a patentee chooses to go from theclaim as unamended to make a narrow limitations in there,there's a complete bar with respect to the amended th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC element. And Exhibit Supply, of course, talks about thereis an abandonment and disclaimer of everything between theelement as unamended and as amended.And to --QUESTION: Could you explain to me a little moreclearly what -- what you assert relates to patentabilitymeans? I mean, if -- if you narrow the phrase to mean it-- it relates only to prior art or to any impediment togetting the invention accepted as novel or whatever, Iunderstand what it means. But if it -- if it includes anychange that is made in order to get the examiner to acceptthe patent, then what change does not relate topatentability? If -- if, as you assert, patent attorneysare so reluctant to make any changes, what change wouldnot relate to patentability? The only reason they'redoing it is to get the patent. MR. NEUSTADT: Yes. It's not changes. It's thenarrowing changes. You can make a lot of changes. QUESTION: Fine. What narrowing changes wouldnot relate to patentability? MR. NEUSTADT: There are very few changes whereyou have significant narrowing that do not relate topatentability. QUESTION: I can't imagine any because why wouldyou do it unless -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. NEUSTADT: Oh, well --QUESTION: -- unless to get the examiner toaccept -- to accept your patent?MR. NEUSTADT: If you take out narrowing, youcan have a lot of changes. For example, you may file anapplication and then broaden your claim. QUESTION: But -- but why -- why talk aboutchanges that relate to patentability? Why not just sayall narrowing changes? Let's make it clear what we'retalking about. You're saying all narrowing changes. MR. NEUSTADT: And this is why the Federalcircuit had such virtual unanimity because --QUESTION: And -- and you think that that's --that's what we meant in -- in Warner-Jenkinson by -- bychanges that relate to patentability. All narrowingchanges. MR. NEUSTADT: I think in Warner-Jenkinson thesubject wasn't specifically addressed. The Courtrecognized that you have narrowing changes with respect toprior art. QUESTION: It would be a very strangeterminology to use to refer to all narrowing changes.MR. NEUSTADT: Yes. QUESTION: You know, it doesn't seem to mesynonymous with patentability. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. NEUSTADT: To -- to a certain extent, the --the Federal circuit rule is even narrower than -- thanWarner-Jenkinson because this Court in Warner-Jenkinsondid not refer to narrowing. It just referred toamendments that relate to prior art, and there must havebeen an implicit assumption that that was -- that wasnarrowing. The Federal circuit, since they hear a lot ofpatent cases, focused more in on the fact that it reallywasn't the fact that it was prior art. What you wanted toget at was important changes, and they -- they used thelanguage statutory requirements of patentability. For example, one of the most important things isyour claim being supported by the disclosure. You can'tclaim what you don't invent. So, if your claim is realbroad, the examiner says, but you've only disclosed this,so you can't foreclose all of this. And so then you haveto narrow it down to this. And that's a change, and a change is just as important as a and a change.And so the Federal circuit says if it's for a statutoryrequirement for patentability. And these are not trivialchanges. A patent attorney, when an examiner makes achange -- a suggested change, says, well, how can I dothat without narrowing. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC The same thing with respect to clarity. You canmake changes with respect to clarity. Maybe the examinerlikes feet rather than inches. Maybe there areother things that he thinks will be more clear. As longas they're not narrowing, the patent attorney is happy tomake them, but as soon as he -- he narrows, he knows thathe's getting his client less.With respect to foreseeability, I just wanted tomake one comment. Patent attorneys, when they draft broadclaims, they draft broad claims because they don't knowwhat is going to happen in the future. They want thebroad claim because if something happens in the future,they're going to be covered for it. Also, the patentattorney doesn't know everything that's happened in thepast, and so he wants the broad claim because he gets muchbetter coverage. For example, you don't want to go to -- fromadhesives to glue, because if you do that -- I'm sorry.QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. Neustadt.Mr. Bork, you have minutes remaining.REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF ROBERT H. BORKON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERMR. BORK: I wish to address this question ofnarrowing. The concept of narrowing has no limits. Inthis case, the Stoll patent moved one element -- an th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC element from one claim to another. No change, just movedfrom one claim to another. That was held to be anarrowing. Now, if that's a narrowing, nothing isunrelated to patentability. That -- that's the extreme towhich the Federal circuit takes this case. Now, as far as the Government is concerned, theGovernment I think didn't quote you the relevant languagefrom their brief. They approvingly quoted as the law inWarner-Jenkinson -- that is, in filing in Warner-Jenkinson-- whenever a prosecution history estoppel is invoked,there's a limitation to infringement under the doctrine ofequivalents. A close examination must be made as to notonly what was surrendered but also the reason for suchsurrender. That's the position that the -- this Courtadopted in Warner-Jenkinson. It's the position that Festotakes before this Court today. I should say that I don't -- when I answeredyou, Justice O'Connor, I did not mean to say that alimitation was the same as an amendment. It's just astatement of the claim. A limitation is where the claimis when you first make it. This case -- if what happened to Festo here andwhat's going to happen to other patentholders continues,this case, were it not done by a court, were it done byany other agency, would be a taking under the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Constitution. And that's why it's important that you --this Court not approve a retroactive application of thisdrastic new rule but require that it be done by Congressor by rulemaking by the Patent and Trademark Office.Thank you. QUESTION: May I ask, since you do have a secondleft, what -- what case of ours does -- other than Warner-Jenkinson, does the new rule repudiate?MR. BORK: Almost all of them. For example, thedoctrine of equivalents goes back well into the lastcentury. Winans against Denmead, . There's anargument there about -- they don't call it the doctrine ofequivalents then, but there's an argument there aboutwhether something fell under a patent claim and they saythat it's really the same thing, same principle asinvolved, and therefore --CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: Thank you, Mr. Bork.The case is submitted. (Whereupon, at : a.m., the case in theabove-entitled matter was submitted.) th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC 