 IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XCONNECTICUT DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC SAFETY, ET AL., Petitioners :::v. : No. -JOHN DOE, ET AL. :- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XWashington, D.C.Wednesday, November , The above-entitled matter came on for oralargument before the Supreme Court of the United States at: a.m.APPEARANCES:RICHARD BLUMENTHAL, ESQ., Attorney General, Hartford, Connecticut; on behalf of the Petitioners.THEODORE B. OLSON, ESQ., Solicitor General, Department ofJustice, Washington, D.C.; on behalf of the UnitedStates, as amicus curiae, supporting the Petitioners.SHELLEY R. SADIN, ESQ., Bridgeport, Connecticut; on behalfof the Respondents. C O N T E N T SORAL ARGUMENT OF RICHARD BLUMENTHAL, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioners THEODORE B. OLSON, ESQ.On behalf of the United States, as amicus curiae, supporting the Petitioners SHELLEY R. SADIN, ESQ.On behalf of the Respondents REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OFRICHARD BLUMENTHAL, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioners PAGE P R O C E E D I N G S(: a.m.)CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: We'll hear argumentnow in Number - -- , the Connecticut Department ofPublic Safety versus John Doe.General Blumenthal.ORAL ARGUMENT OF RICHARD BLUMENTHALON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERSMR. BLUMENTHAL: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice,and may it please the Court:This case, like Alaska's, is about fullyaccurate, concededly true public record information aboutconvicted sex offenders that citizens of Connecticut andthe other States need and deserve -- indeed, theydemand be made available and accessible -- so they can make choices about how to protect themselves, theirfamilies, and their children.And each of the convicted sex offenders on thisregistry has received a hearing, a full and fair hearing,many of them a trial, all of them the full panoply of dueprocess rights and have been found guilty beyond areasonable doubt. QUESTION: In this case, General Blumenthal,we're not talking about ex post facto. We're just talkingabout due process of some sort because the Second Circuit said this couldn't be applied whether it was doneafterwards or before. MR. BLUMENTHAL: We are, indeed, Mr. ChiefJustice, talking only about the due process issue and onlyabout whether, first, the listing on this registry isdefamatory and, second, whether the defamation, if, infact, it exists -- and we say it doesn't -- is a violationof the Due Process Clause in the way that it is imposedhere, that is, under Paul v. Davis, whether there is aloss or alteration of right or status as a result of thatdefamation --QUESTION: It's a procedural due process claim,not substantive due process. MR. BLUMENTHAL: The -- the claim has been aprocedural due process claim, although the United States as amicus has raised -- and we welcome that it hasraised -- the substantive due process issue. But --QUESTION: We don't normally address issuesraised by amici, do we? MR. BLUMENTHAL: I don't know whether the Courtis more hospitable to claims that may be raised by amicifrom the United States Government, but it certainly is arelevant issue to be addressed here because many of theclaims raised under the guise of due process reallyinvolve line drawing and categories. For example, the question of which offenses should be listed on theregistry really is a legislative determination. QUESTION: Well, the Second Circuit's positionputs us -- decision puts us in a somewhat difficultposition. It's a procedural due process opinion, and wehave to say, procedural due process to protect what right? So we have to go back and find out what the basic rightthey're talking about is, and I suppose the narrow way todo it is to look just to whether or not there's -- there'sa Paul versus Virginia type of claim with this -- withthis -- with a stigma --MR. BLUMENTHAL: Certainly that is the waythe -- the case comes to the Court, raising that issue,and it's one that we believe merits reversal of the SecondCircuit. We agree -- and I must say very emphatically we agree so far as the issue of stigma is concerned -- thatthe implication as reached by the Second Circuit iscorrect, that is, that every person on this list is morelikely than the average person to be currently dangerous. We think that implication is true. Every bit ofinformation on this registry, in fact, is concededly true.And there is differentiation among the differentregistrants. The differentiation occurs by the offense;that is, the information that is listed as to when theoffense occurred, the nature of the offense, the number of offenses enables the public, having this informationaccessible and available, to make judgments about whetherthat individual in fact may be dangerous. And ofcourse --QUESTION: May I ask you a question about yoursystem? Last year we had a case that came, I think, fromKansas, McKune, involving whether a person had to -- couldbe, in effect, compelled to go into a sex offenderprogram. Does your -- and that -- presumably the -- thosetreatment programs do some good in preventing recidivism. Does -- does your reporting system give the convictedoffender a chance to differentiate between whether he wentthrough such a program and one who did not? MR. BLUMENTHAL: There is --QUESTION: Does it draw any distinction between those two? MR. BLUMENTHAL: Justice Stevens, there is nocategory of information on the registration, as it's madeavailable to the public, about whether there has beentreatment. The information provided is very simplyaddress, identifying factors --QUESTION: So they treat one who had treatmentand one who had no treatment exactly the same. MR. BLUMENTHAL: That is correct, so far as theinformation provided to the public is concerned. And the reason, if I may presume to say it, may be that theeffectiveness of treatment may be problematic, and thesame is true with hearings on dangerousness. Theunreliability of these hearings has been a very, verysubstantial problem, and the kind of information that maycome to the public from such hearings or from informationabout treatment may be as misleading as it is accurate inmany instances. QUESTION: Would you -- would you agree thatthere is at least some subclass of cases here in which thenon-dangerousness could be shown in a way that probablywas highly accurate and did not involve the -- thedifficulties that you raise? What I've got in mind is this. The -- thecategories of individuals who are listed under the Connecticut statute include young men who as teenagers hadintercourse with younger teenage girls. No one, by normalstandards of English usage, would say at the age of that -- that a -- a young man like that is dangerous inany sense that we would associate dangerousness with --violent sex acts and things of that sort. So there seemsto be a -- a category, not merely a set of individuals whomay prove they're not dangerous, but a category that ispresumptively not dangerous in the sense that the othersare. And yet, there is no way for them, in effect, to -- to get themselves declared ineligible for the -- for thestigmatization that -- that goes on. Why isn't there a due process problem that islegitimately raised as at least to a category like that?MR. BLUMENTHAL: There -- there is, in fact,Justice Souter, a category of the registrants who areexcepted for the -- a -- a category of convicted offenderswho are excepted from the registry if, for example, theyare or younger and they commit statutory rape, if thevictim is to years old. There are exceptions formaking accessible to the public information --QUESTION: What do -- what do they have to do toget the exception? MR. BLUMENTHAL: At the time of sentencing, thatfinding is made by the sentencing court, or later, that that kind of registration is not required by publicsafety. QUESTION: What about the ones who have alreadybeen sentenced? In other words, the -- the -- sort of thecarryover class that you pick up the minute the statutegoes into effect? I mean, these -- these are the ones whoare the -- raising in -- in the prior case, the ones whoare raising the ex post facto kind of claim. What do youdo about them? MR. BLUMENTHAL: The -- the legislature has made a determination that certain -- under certaincircumstances, the crime is not registrable, that is,there is no requirement for registration. In certaininstances unquestionably, Justice Souter --QUESTION: Well, but take -- take -- simply takethe case as an example. The -year-old boy the --whatever it is -- -year-old girl have intercourse. Is -- is that person, if convicted prior to the date ofthe statute, subject to exception from the listing, and --and how --MR. BLUMENTHAL: They -- they could go back tothe sentencing court. There is a provision --QUESTION: I see. MR. BLUMENTHAL: -- that someone who would fitthe exceptions can go back to the sentencing court. QUESTION: Does this -- does this category fit? Let's take -- those ages will do fine, and . Doesthat fit within an excepted category?MR. BLUMENTHAL: I'm sorry, Justice Ginsburg. I'm -- I'm not sure that I followed the -- the specificclass that Justice Souter was referencing. QUESTION: You said that there are certaincategories of people who can be exempted from that, and Iasked if the hypothetical that Justice Souter raised --that particular hypothetical -- fits within that exempted or excepted class. MR. BLUMENTHAL: I believe that it could. QUESTION: It doesn't on my list here. What itsays here -- I mean, maybe I'm wrong in the statute whichmy law clerk looked up. She's usually right. And it'sthat you -- you get into the exception to go back to thesentencing court if you committed the sexual intercoursewhen you were under the age of with a victim between to and you were years older.So I think that -- that Justice Souter'shypothetical was purposely created --QUESTION: Nineteen.QUESTION: -- so they didn't fit within thatexception. And -- and I -- I suspect that we can find alarge number of people who would be convicted of statutory rape who don't fit within this exception and who are,therefore, thrown in. And I think the point of hisquestion -- it would -- certainly would be mine -- is whatabout those people. MR. BLUMENTHAL: And -- and that question reallyis the more fundamental issue about legislative linedrawing and unquestionably --QUESTION: Well, before we get to line drawing,I misunderstood your response to me I guess. What is theanswer? Are those people in my hypothetical exempted or do they have a process by which they can be exempted ornot?MR. BLUMENTHAL: Maybe I should --QUESTION: Justice Breyer understands that theywould not be exempted from listing. And I -- I guess --Is he right or isn't he? MR. BLUMENTHAL: I -- I believe that probablythey would not be exempted, although they could go back tothe sentencing court, and determine whether thecircumstances of that hypothetical and -- and -- I'mnot --QUESTION: But what is the category? MR. BLUMENTHAL: But I had in mind all --QUESTION: What is the category, GeneralBlumenthal, in which such a person might go back? Thereseem to be rather precise categories that are exceptedwith an age range, and if you fall outside that age range,there doesn't seem to be built into this scheme anydiscretionary exercises.MR. BLUMENTHAL: That is correct, JusticeGinsburg. And someone who was not within the exemption --and -- the hypothetical may put that person outside it --could not go back. The -- the legislature has drawn thatline, and it's done so because it has to draw linessomewhere and has imposed that classification because it's judged it to be in the public interest to do so.QUESTION: Let's assume -- you know, we acceptthe fact that line drawing has to be done and so do thepeople on the other side of the case. Their claim is thatthe fact is we've got at least some category which we canidentify on a categorical basis which is being stigmatizedas dangerous for a period of -- I guess, a minimum of years. And all they're asking for is a way out. They'renot even claiming that you affirmatively have got to makea proof of dangerousness in the first instance withrespect to those. They are saying, as a matter ofprocedural due process, there ought to be a way out andthere is none. That's not to contest line drawing. Thatis to contest the fact that the State could let them havethe burden of getting out, and the State still won't do it. What is the justification? MR. BLUMENTHAL: The justification is that theinformation that is put on the registry is accurate. Thestigma, if there is any stigma, results from theconviction of that offense, and --QUESTION: No. That is not -- I don't thinkthat's their argument. Their argument is not that theyare -- are being subject to a stigma for years becausethey were convicted. They are being subject to a stigma for years because the State of Connecticut is sayingthrough the Internet in -- in effect, that they arecurrently dangerous. That's the stigma, not theconviction, the current state of dangerousness which isstigmatizing.MR. BLUMENTHAL: With all due respect, JusticeSouter, the court of appeals did not find that the fact ofbeing on the registry means that every individual issubject to that stigma.QUESTION: No. What it means is what you havejust -- to begin with, what you just stipulated, that infact there is a higher probability, a -- a greater riskof -- of dangerousness. But if, in fact, there is nomeans of differentiation for any one person on theregister, then that probability judgment is going to be applied in the public mind, naturally, to every person onthat unless there is a way to establish an exemption. MR. BLUMENTHAL: There is differentiationinsofar as the crime itself is listed. QUESTION: There is, and yet the very fact thatthe State chooses to list that crime is a clear indicationthat the State thinks that people in that category ofcrime deserve to be listed with others who are potentiallydangerous. So the State's very categorical treatment, ineffect, has said to the public, you can't draw any clear distinctions based on the particular crimes that we'llalso inform you of. You've already made the categoricaljudgment. QUESTION: Mr. Blumenthal, may I ask you whetherthis statute has helped in any way in reducing sex crimesin Connecticut? MR. BLUMENTHAL: We -- we can't really say,Justice O'Connor, at this point because the Internetavailability has been suspended by order of the court. All of this information --QUESTION: How long was it in effect? MR. BLUMENTHAL: It was in effect for a coupleof years, and even then it was too early to make ajudgment as to whether or not it was having anydiscernible effect statistically, and there's nothing in the record on that point. I -- I should report that there are now about, registrants and some approximately have beenconvicted again of a registrable offense. The point here is, though, that all of thisinformation is public record information. The requirementand the obligation for registration existed before . In fact, it began in . So no status or right wasaltered. And the registration requirement really isseparate from how the information is made available to the public, and that goes to the Paul v. Davis issue. And with your permission, Mr. Chief Justice, I'dlike to reserve the balance of my time. QUESTION: Very well, General Blumenthal.Mr. -- General Olson, we'll hear from you.ORAL ARGUMENT OF THEODORE B. OLSONON BEHALF OF THE UNITED STATES,AS AMICUS CURIAE, SUPPORTING THE PETITIONERSMR. OLSON: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice, andmay it please the Court:General Blumenthal conveyed three very importantaspects of this case in his opening sentence. In essence,he said the people of Connecticut seek access toconcededly truthful, public record and otherwise publicavailable information concerning convicted sex offenders. These individuals have no constitutional right to concealthese public truths from interested public citizens. The Second Circuit examined the registry andsaid not only is the information about every individualconcededly true, but the registry -- and this is set outverbatim in page of Connecticut's -- the blue brief. The Department of Public Safety has not considered orassessed the specific risk of re-offense of any individualprior to his or her inclusion within this registry and hasmade no determination that any individual included in the registry is currently dangerous.QUESTION: That's what it says on the registryor on the Internet? MR. OLSON: Exactly. QUESTION: But you could skip that entirely. You get -- this is on the -- it's not listed -- I can goto the Internet and go directly to the person. Thisinformation -- this disclaimer -- is not associated withthe individual offender listing. It's -- it's stuck inthe middle of a bunch of stuff before. MR. OLSON: Well, that's true, Justice Ginsburg. It is not repeated for every name in the registry, butit's clearly set forth in the registry itself. It's putin italics.And the -- and the State goes on to say, individuals included within the registry are includedsolely by virtue of their conviction record and State law. The main purpose of providing the -- this data on theInternet is to make the information more easily accessibleand available, not to warn about any specificindividual --QUESTION: Well, except for the fact that --that the -- the State has made a judgment and it doesn'tdeny it, that individuals who have been convicted ofcrimes in the categories subject to the law, are as a categorical matter more likely to commit them in thefuture. They are more likely to be dangerous than thegeneral population. And so it's true. The State doesnot, in its register, say, and by the way, this John Doeis especially dangerous. But the State can't deny thatit's saying this John Doe is part of the category that wethink dangerous enough to list through the Internet.MR. OLSON: Well, what they do say is that thepublic is entitled to and should make specific judgmentsabout specific individuals. QUESTION: But it can't. I mean, it cannot dothat on the -- on the basis of what the State puts outbecause all it knows, from what the State puts out, is thecategory the person falls into.MR. OLSON: Precisely. And the point that you were making earlier, Justice Souter, is that there aredifferent types of crimes that may be of interest todifferent individuals. If you have small --QUESTION: All -- all of which, however, areregarded as being within some -- above some threshold ofdangerousness or they wouldn't be listed on the Internet.MR. OLSON: Because they are -- they areresponding to the people's request in States -- and thepeople of the United States through the Congress -- tomake information available to us about people who have been convicted of sex crimes. QUESTION: I'll grant you that, but have thepeople of the States also said, and we don't want thereto be any way out for someone who can prove that he iseither non-dangerous or -- or in a category which ishighly -- which is much less likely to be dangerous? MR. OLSON: Well --QUESTION: I mean, if the people said there's noescape? MR. OLSON: If -- if -- there -- that's -- theFederal statute allows the State to exercise judgment withrespect to the use of its resources with respect to thispublic record, truthful information. Now, the State of Connecticut -- the questionthat you're raising, it seems to me, falls squarely within the concept of a substantive due process challenge, nota --QUESTION: Well, but isn't it -- it's alsosquarely within procedural due process. The -- the Stateis saying you're putting a label on me, and that's okay ifyou give me a way to get out of it. MR. OLSON: But the State --QUESTION: That's a procedural due processchallenge. MR. OLSON: The label that the State is putting on is that you have been convicted of a sex crime and thatthe -- and you must draw -- we have not decided that youare dangerous. QUESTION: No, but that's where -- I mean, Ithink that's where the -- the -- we're not sort of meetingeach other in the argument. The State does say that much. No question about it. But by this categorized treatment,the State is saying something further. The State issaying people in these categories are likely to be moredangerous. It's a -- it's the second statement that isthe gravamen of the problem that we've got here, not thetruthful first statement. MR. OLSON: Well, the -- the Court has saidrepeatedly that the -- this Court will examine challengeswith respect to the -- the -- in that category on a substantive due process basis if the classification isreasonable --QUESTION: Well, that's -- that's right there,but that is not the challenge that's being made. There'sno challenge being made here that the State cannot have aregister -- or a register that is -- is structured bycategory. The challenge that's being made here is that ifyou do that, there should be a due -- there should be aprocedural mechanism for somebody who can show that he'snot dangerous to get out. That isn't substantive due process. MR. OLSON: Well, and -- and our submission isthat the determination -- and this Court has stated it asrecently -- recently as a year ago that sex offenders aremore likely to be recidivists than other categories ofindividuals, but that that does not mean, Connecticut goeson to say, that any individual is necessarily dangerous. That classification is rational.Now, it is also rational for Connecticut to havedetermined, as it did, that we'll accord opportunities forpeople to address in -- in certain circumstances thenature of their conviction. But it's also rational for --QUESTION: General Olson, can I ask you abroader question? Do you think it would be permissiblefor Connecticut to require every person in the category to wear a badge that recited the information that goes on theInternet? MR. OLSON: We think that that would be a verydifficult situation, Justice Stevens, in that -- the --and -- and I would be concerned about that. But --QUESTION: Why? What's wrong with that? MR. OLSON: Well, because that requires theindividual to carry that notification himself to conveythe government's message.QUESTION: Yes. MR. OLSON: It also requires that message to bebrought into every situation that the individual isinvolved in. The Internet is a reasonable and relative --minimally intrusive way of responding to a question that acitizen may ask of a State and to which the citizen isentitled to an answer. The citizen here has to ask thequestion. It isn't carried around with the individualeverywhere the individual goes. And this is public record information. As oneof the questions in the earlier argument implied, if aprivate citizen -- Cox Broadcasting, for example --decided to make this information available to the public,it would be -- have an absolute constitutional right to doso. It seems anomalous to suggest that the State ofConnecticut cannot impart to its citizens the same information that Cox Broadcasting would have an absoluteconstitutional right to do so. It seems to us --QUESTION: But nobody is -- nobody is saying itcan't. Nobody is saying Connecticut can't do this. Allthey're saying is if Connecticut does it, they've got togive us an -- an escape hatch.MR. OLSON: Well, it seems to me, JusticeSouter, that that conflicts directly with what the Courtsaid in Paul versus Davis, that in the first place, thereis not defamation here because it's a truthful imparting of information. QUESTION: If -- if there is no potential for adefamatory or stigmatizing statement, then there is nocase. I agree with you. But simply to say there's nodefamation here is -- is, with respect, it seems to me, totry to avoid the question. MR. OLSON: Well, I don't think it is, but --but even if it were defamation, it is not -- there is nostigma plus, as this Court required in Paul versus Davis.There's no confinement of liberty. There's no denial ofany individual on this list of a right to a job --QUESTION: Is there stigma plus in JusticeStevens' hypothetical, wearing the badge? MR. OLSON: There may well be. QUESTION: Why isn't there stigma plus then in creating a -- in effect, a subclass of citizens who havegot to go through quarterly registration possibly for therest of their lives? MR. OLSON: It -- it -- we submit that that is aminimal, reasonable way for the State to keep track ofpeople who have committed crimes and then --QUESTION: But, General Olson, suppose you lookat it as a stigma minus. What about the hypothetical Iasked earlier about somebody who took -- a convicted felonwho took the -- the treatment program and survived it and one who did not? They're treated alike in this system. MR. OLSON: Yes, they are because the State hasmade a determination, as have other States andCongress, that the people are entitled to certain publicrecord information. That does not apply --QUESTION: But it's -- it's incompleteinformation as to some. MR. OLSON: It's -- well, it is -- it isincomplete information as to everyone, we submit. But itdoes -- it is complete information with respect to whetherindividuals have been convicted of a sex crime. That ispublic information. That is information to which thecitizens are entitled. Thank you. QUESTION: Thank you, General Olson. Ms. Sadin, we'll hear from you. ORAL ARGUMENT OF SHELLEY R. SADINON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTSMS. SADIN: Mr. Chief Justice, may it please theCourt:In the eyes of a concerned public, every personposted on Connecticut's Megan's Law list poses a seriousthreat to the public, particularly to children. Thepublic knows that Megan's Law is named for --QUESTION: You -- you state that as a fact, Ms. Sadin. What is the -- what is the record support forthat statement? MS. SADIN: Petitioners themselves havestated --QUESTION: I'm asking you -- Ms. Sadin, I'masking you what is the record support for the statementyou just made? MS. SADIN: That -- that the public knows thisis a Megan's Law list? QUESTION: That -- that the public knows that --what -- that they're -- that they're dangerous.MS. SADIN: The -- the message of dangerousnesscomes from a number of sources, Your Honor. The first isthat the purpose of this law, the declared purpose of thislaw, repeated by petitioners and repeated by the lawmakers who passed it, is to protect the public from recidivistsex offenders, and particularly to protect the childrenfrom such offenders. The law is administered and the registry is bothput together and published by the State police. The Statepolice on the website state that it is their mission toprevent crime and protect the public.QUESTION: But they also say that it -- it --they're not saying that anyone is dangerous on that samewebsite, don't they? MS. SADIN: They don't actually. The disclaimerdoes not say that everybody is not dangerous. What thedisclaimer says is that no dangerousness assessment ismade with respect to any individual.QUESTION: Well, why isn't that good enough?MS. SADIN: It isn't good enough because all itsays is what we already know, which is that nobody hasbeen assessed for dangerous or not. And it's contradictedby the repeatedly emphasized message to the public, whichpetitioners themselves stressed so urgently below, thatthe purpose of this law is to publish current, monitoredinformation taken from offenders so that it can be postedon the Internet so the public will know what they looklike and where they live at all times. That sends a verycompelling message.QUESTION: But that's not -- that's not -- Ithink what I took the Chief Justice is asking -- I took --and I'd have a similar question, that -- that theirresponse I think to the point that I was trying to makewith Justice Souter, that maybe this is overly broadbecause let's imagine the -year-old who simply hadintercourse once with a much younger woman and obviouslyis no danger. Their response is, first, it says to thepublic, consider every case on the merits. We're notsaying whether it's dangerous or not. Second, when the people in the neighborhood towhich the individual has moved look him up on the Net,they'll see what he did, and people aren't idiots. They'll understand that this is there because he fellwithin the law. And besides that, they say, it's too difficultfor us to draw finer lines. At least the legislaturereasonably so could conclude. So the question I had is, is there any objectiveevidence that people do cause mistake -- the significanceof this - or -year-old boy having his name there? Arewe just doing that because we all know -- in quotes -- oris there evidence of it? MS. SADIN: There were -- the -- the court --the district court's decision and the court of appeals decision that affirmed it were based on rule (c)statements, undisputed facts on summary judgment, and theyincluded the fact that this is commonly known as a Megan'sLaw. There's no disputing that. Everybody in thiscountry knows that Megan's Law was passed in response tothe rape and murder of a child victim. That is thegenesis of these laws, and it's undisputed that that's howthe public understands them. Also not in dispute is that it is thedepartment -- QUESTION: Well, the public also understandsthat official records have to be interpreted in differentways. We've said that in -- in prior decisions of thisCourt. When there's a notice on the police bulletin boardand the press publishes it, it says what it says.MS. SADIN: Except that these --QUESTION: This -- if -- if you have sort of aFirst Amendment argument you're concerned with here, it --it seems to me that you're arguing at cross purposes toour precedents. MS. SADIN: As I understand your question, if --the problem is that it is not just truthful, alreadypublic information. The list does not just includesomeone's conviction. It also includes a currentphotograph and a current address --QUESTION: Is that not truthful? MS. SADIN: The current photograph and thecurrent -- it is not because the message that it conveysis that this is a person who is being watched andmonitored, who must, at risk of felony conviction --QUESTION: Well, what is the constitutionalbasis for your argument? Could we move to that? I mean,you're here on a constitutional claim, and I'm not surewhat it is, to tell you the truth. MS. SADIN: It is that there is an established liberty interest in -- in a government impose -- inavoiding a government-imposed stigma, which is not justgovernment name-calling.QUESTION: Well, how does some liberty interestand reputation survive the Paul versus Davis case?MS. SADIN: But it is more than a libertyinterest and reputation. This is a government-imposedstigma which is -- it's part and parcel of the regulationsthat are imposed on people. The information posted on theregistry is extracted from registrants. On pain of felonyconviction, they must --QUESTION: Can -- can a truthful statement bestigmatizing? MS. SADIN: This is not a truthful statement. QUESTION: Well, then do you agree that a truthful statement cannot be stigmatizing? MS. SADIN: No. A truthful statement can alsobe stigmatizing, but -- but it's not --QUESTION: Is that consistent with Paul versusDavis?MS. SADIN: I think Paul versus Davis requiresthat there be a -- as there is in this case, a falsestigma.And I think we have to go back to theunderstanding and the basis of this law. This is a law which was designed to -- and the public knows it wasdesigned to -- protect the public from dangerous,recidivist offenders, and that is not true with respect tomany of the people, perhaps most of the people -- we don'tknow -- who are on this list. Not only --QUESTION: A danger -- potentially dangerous. I mean, the government doesn't have to make a -- a rock-solid assessment that these people are dangerous. Whyisn't it enough for the government to say this is acategory of people who may be dangerous?MS. SADIN: The government says --QUESTION: And is that true? It is perfectlytrue. Can the public act on it? If it wants to, it can;if it doesn't want to, it doesn't have to. It may makefurther assessment of whether, indeed, the may is -- is close enough or -- or -- but -- I don't know why youinsist on saying that the -- that the State has said thesepeople are dangerous. It seems to me, even without thedisclaimer, the most the State has said is that thesepeople may be dangerous. MS. SADIN: The State says -- with respect, theState says more, but even if it said that these -- thatthese people may be more dangerous than other people, thattoo reduces people in the eyes -- in the eyes of thepublic. It causes people to, as any injury to reputation would, not want to hire them, not -- want to avoid them,not want to live in the same neighborhoods with them.And this Court, with respect to whether or notthere are statistics which show that this -- that somesubgroup of sex offenders are more likely to recidivate,this Court has never relied just on statisticalinformation to make dangerousness assessments aboutindividuals, even in the context --QUESTION: Suppose this -- this same informationwas on the -- on the Internet through some private serviceand I got into the Internet, and I said I don't want tolive next to -- to this person. That is my judgment thatI can make --MS. SADIN: Well, there are two points --QUESTION: -- based on a public record. MS. SADIN: There are two points with respect tothat, Your Honor. First of all, a private citizen wouldnot have the power, as the government does, to obtaincurrent -- to require people to register currentphotographs and current addresses for posting, and thereis not the same government-imposed imprimatur. These arepeople who are being watched. We are requiring them toprovide this information to us on a regular basis. Weadvertise on the website that we keep this information asupdated as possible in -- in furtherance of the Department of Public Safety's declared mission of protecting thepublic and preventing crime. All -- the entire context ofthis registry and the purpose of the law sends theineluctable message that the people who are posted pose apresent threat to the public. QUESTION: Let -- let me give you that. What'sbothering me -- and it may be I'm just missing something,but if I am, I've missed it for a long, long time. What has this to do with the procedural dueprocess claim? I'll -- I'll say that my reason fordoubting that it does is first there is -- there are somelaws that are so basic that they're not written anywhere,not even in our cases. What I used to say was one of themis you don't ever have to have a hearing if there'snothing to have a hearing about. And here there's nothing to have a hearing about as far as the statute isconcerned. These people concede they were convicted ofsexually violent offenses. To make the same point differently, give yourclients all the procedures they want, every procedure inthe world, and let's suppose they prove they're absolutelynot dangerous. Still, they were convicted of a sexuallyviolent offense. So it wasn't the lack of procedure thatcaused the problem. It was the fact that in your view theConstitution of the United States does not permit the State of Connecticut to turn these consequences upon beinga sexually violent offender. That's a different argument,and the only kind of clause I've ever seen that would makethat constitutionally impermissible is the Due ProcessClause in its substantive sense. And my point is not simply a technical point,for if you had focused on the argument, there would be arecord that would answer questions like the ChiefJustice's. You would have been forced to create a recordthat would have gone into all the State's reasons and whatempirical data there was, whether this was justified ornot. That's a long question. But I'd -- it's at theroot of what's bothering me. MS. SADIN: I understand, Your Honor, and I think -- let me see if I can respond to it sufficiently.We are not asking -- first of all, let me beginby saying the reason we don't consider it to be asubstantive due process analysis is that we're not tryingto expand the scope of the due process law to -- torecognize some liberty that is not already recognized. There is an interest in reputation if it is coupled withthe kinds of restrictions that are imposed by this law. People cannot -- literally cannot -- remain at liberty ifthey do not report what they look like and where they live to the State. They will be prosecuted for a felony. Theycannot move without advising the State that they are doingso. They cannot even leave the State for temporaryperiods, if they're of -- of a substantial period of time,without telling the State. They literally cannot remainat liberty without performing these functions which arenot required of any other citizen. QUESTION: -- in finding a liberty interesthere. After all, he has to give DNA. He has to give hisfingerprints. That isn't my problem. I'll give you allthe liberty interest you want. My -- I don't want to repeat what I said. Youtook it in all right. Right? MS. SADIN: I think so. QUESTION: Okay. MS. SADIN: And let -- let me try to address itnow if I haven't done it yet. Even if there were -- now, as I understand, YourHonor, you're saying that -- that even if there werenarrower categories, if we were to limit this to peoplewho were more dangerous and isn't overbroad, there weren'tthat -- that kind of issue, there still is the problembecause it is a procedural due process issue whether aparticular person poses a present threat. That isn'tsomething -- QUESTION: I don't think that's the issue. I think the issue is the State says here's a list ofpeople who were convicted of sex offenses. Period. You're telling us that this particular person is no longerdangerous. We say that's not relevant to our scheme. There's only one thing that's relevant: was he or sheconvicted? If he or she was convicted, you have nothingunder our scheme to be heard about because the only dueprocess conviction -- the only due process hearing thatcounts is the one that led up to the conviction. That's -- that's the point, that you're saying my personis no longer dangerous. The State's answer is, under ourscheme that's totally irrelevant. The only question is,was this person convicted of a sex offense?MS. SADIN: But the problem with -- the problem with that, Your Honor, is that the list does not just saythat the person was convicted of a sex offense.QUESTION: So now suppose -- that's -- what I'mtrying to find out what is your real argument. Supposethe list said, not sex offender register, but register ofpersons convicted -- convicted sex offender list. It saidthat. And then it put the disclaimer that we are makingno judgment about this person's dangerousness right onthat web page with the picture, right on the page with theindividual's picture, and then it gave the offense of conviction, the date, the time served, and that's what waspresented -- with that legend in bold face -- every time auser goes to get a picture sees that warning of what theState's purpose is -- would you still have a proceduraldue process claim? MS. SADIN: I would if -- I would if the currentappearances and whereabouts of those people were alsomonitored for the purpose of posting them on a list whosestated purpose is to protect the public. I would not havea problem if it is simply an Internet version ofconviction records. There is a fundamental differencebetween public records of conviction and theinformation --QUESTION: But then I don't get the link withthe hearing that you're asking for. That your address has -- anytime somebody's address is -- his currentaddress or place of employment -- is it a governmentrecord? They have a right to get that out? I'm not --I'm not sure I'm following what is the hearing that you'reentitled to because the government supplies your currentaddress. MS. SADIN: The hearing that we're entitledto -- and it isn't -- it really is more than just currentaddress, although that is one aspect of it. Monitoringaddress and photographs and posting it for the purpose of protecting the public does send a message that they'redangerous. But even if there -- if there were to be a -- alist that simply reflected past conviction records, thatwould not pose a problem. It isn't just the currentaddress. It is the combination of all of these things. It is the context. This is a Megan's Law designed toprotect the public from recidivist child molesters. Itis -- it posts people whose current appearances andwhereabouts are monitored, and the State tells the publicthat they are monitored on the website itself. It saysthat we provide this information and we keep it as currentas -- as possible. It is the Department of Public Safety,the State police, who post the information beneath theirprominently displayed mission statement that it is their job in life to protect the public from -- from crime.QUESTION: Well, Ms. Sadin, I don't know if theFBI does it anymore. I think they used to put out a Most Wanted list of the most dangerous offenders. Now,could one of the people on that list have demanded ahearing to say he didn't belong on it? (Laughter.) MS. SADIN: There's a fundamental distinctionbetween them because -- think about it, Your Honor. The -- the Most Wanted list is the result of an investigation that focuses on a particular individual andthere are exigent circumstances. It's not just a roundupof -- of the usual suspects. It does focus on aparticular person. And that person does not have, by theway, the -year to life continued reporting requirementsbased on past conduct. It will be processed --QUESTION: Well, no, but he -- he's going tohave to be on the watch for police. MS. SADIN: Well, he may be but -- but considerwhen that person, even if he committed a violent crime,is -- is arrested and when a bond hearing is heard, therecidivism statistics for this kind of crime, thisperson's past conviction record even, will not be the soledeterminants and determine what -- what allows him to bereleased. It will be --QUESTION: Well, he hasn't -- he hasn't evenbeen convicted of a crime. Somebody who's on that list. I mean, it seems to me he's in a much better positionthan -- than your clients. As far as anybody knows, he'stotally innocent, and the FBI puts him up there as themost wanted without a hearing. Your clients have had ahearing. They've been found to -- to be guilty. They're -- it seems to me they're in much worse shape thansomebody on the FBI list. MS. SADIN: The person on the FBI list has yet to have a hearing on whether or not he was the person whocommitted the crime, and presumably, Your Honor, if hewere not and if there were false information that -- thatled to his arrest, he would have a claim for -- for falsearrest. QUESTION: Exactly. But just putting him --putting his face out there tells the public, does it not,this is a dangerous person you ought to be on the lookoutfor. He hasn't had any hearing on that. MS. SADIN: Yes, but he will. And there is atleast some individual assessment, an individualinvestigation. That hasn't happened with respect to thepeople on my list. QUESTION: Why do you have to have anindividual -- I would -- if you were arguing the substantive due process argument, which it's clear by nowis what I think the right category is --(Laughter.) QUESTION: -- you'd have the person who was inJustice Souter's example and he would come in and say, itviolates the Constitution to apply this statute to me. Atleast give me a hearing. But that's not who you're representing. You'rerepresenting a class of people, including the -- the most dangerous sexual offenders in all of Connecticut. And you're saying as to them the Constitution requires ahearing and the State responds, what are you talkingabout? First, they're very dangerous. Second, they'veall been convicted of crimes. Third, a hearing will be awaste of time as to them and simply delay theimplementation of the statute and a lot of other argumentsbesides. And anyway -- all right. I'm just making up alltheir arguments, but what is your response as to them? MS. SADIN: Yes. Yes. Your Honor has asked aneven longer question, so let me try again. QUESTION: Yes. MS. SADIN: It -- even -- first of all, this isa very broad statute. It does not cover just the mostdangerous offenders. Obviously it covers people who havebeen convicted of nonviolent crimes, been sentenced to probation, been sentenced to unconditional release. Itcovers the teenagers about which there has been somediscussion. And by the way, some of those teenagers canget off and some of them --QUESTION: I'm not being clear. I know that. I'm saying that if they were arguing substance, thosepeople could make the argument on their own. Don't wehave to consider you in terms of the worst? MS. SADIN: Even with respect to -- even withrespect to the worst, it still remains an individual determination whether a person poses a threat. Thatperson could have a --QUESTION: No, but excuse me. Are you claimingthat there's got to be a determination in advance beforethe person can be put on the register, or are you claimingthat a person who is on the register who claims to be non-dangerous should be allowed a hearing to get off it?MS. SADIN: I'm saying -- well, this is a -- theregistry is systematic. It's not as though it's anysurprise --QUESTION: Never mind -- what is your position?MS. SADIN: It is a --QUESTION: Has there got to be a hearing inadvance before the name goes on?MS. SADIN: There has to be a hearing in advance not before the person registers, but before the person ispublicly -- yes, before the person is publicly posted. And that is true even with respect --QUESTION: With the burden on the governmentto -- I want to get the full dimensions of your position. The registry is all right, I gather. There was noinjunction against the registry. The registry remains inplace. So you're attacking only the notification.MS. SADIN: Yes. QUESTION: And your position on the notification is not simply that a person should have an opportunity toshow that he or she should escape from this list, but thatthe government has the burden before it puts -- postsanybody to show that that person is currently dangerous. Is that your position? MS. SADIN: No. I am saying that there has tobe notice that you will be posted and an opportunity to beheard on whether or not you belong to the very small classof people who deserve to be posted. And again, we'renot -- the reason --QUESTION: Well, let's take the category ofviolent sex offenders. They're on the registry. Youdon't dispute that. They're there. Everyone is on theregistry. Can that person, the most violent,automatically be posted? MS. SADIN: No. And even under the FederalMegan's Law -- let me point out that even under theFederal Megan's Law -- that small category of people,sexually violent predators, are not allowed to -- must --must have process before the government is allowed tomonitor them every days, as everyone on Connecticut'sregistry is done. There has to be a court finding that,in fact, those sexually violent predators fit within thatcategory. And even with respect --QUESTION: So no one -- no one could be put on --QUESTION: So what is the finding? That theyhave to be likely to -- to offend again? MS. SADIN: The -- the finding is that they fitthe definition of -- there -- there are a number ofcriteria and there are expert -- expert testimony isrequired, and so there are criteria. QUESTION: Those people could be confined underHendricks, and then the law serves no -- no purpose atall.MS. SADIN: But those -- there is not that kindof confinement law in Connecticut, but there certainlyis -- there would have to be procedure in connection withthat. There was procedure in connection with Hendricks. There has to be procedure in connection with the sexually violent predators who are -- who are regulated in that wayunder the -- under the Federal Megan's Law. And the point is this: Even with respect tothose people who have committed violent crimes, there aretreatment mechanisms. This Court recognized in McKuneagainst Lile that -- that recidivism rates aredramatically reduced by people who receive treatment. It is not difficult to provide these hearings. There are dangerousness hearings done in every court inevery State. In Connecticut as well, there are dangerousness assessments conducted even within thecontext of this Megan's Law, Connecticut's Megan's Law, inconnection with exceptions and exemptions to registration.QUESTION: Maybe the people of Connecticut don'ttrust those dangerousness hearings. Maybe the people ofConnecticut say, I don't want to have to rely upon -- uponthe guesses of some psychiatrist. I do not want to livenext to somebody who has been convicted of a sexual --sexually predatory offense, and I don't care what thepsychiatrists say. Now, can -- can the State ofConnecticut accede to the wishes of the public who feelthat way about it? MS. SADIN: The State of Connecticut can accedeto the wishes of the public to have convictioninformation. The neighbor Your Honor talks about has a name. He can be looked up. The neighbor can see whetheror not he has a prior conviction and can move if itwishes. But the State of Connecticut does not have theright, without providing some individual process, somenotice and an opportunity to be heard, to tell theneighbor this is a person who is dangerous. We have theState police monitoring this person. He must report to usevery days. If he does not return his addressnotification, he will be arrested. This is somebody we are watching. This is somebody with respect to whom weare giving you this information. QUESTION: Well, what if -- what if it were aconviction, Ms. Sadin, he had been convicted, and insteadof this program, it specified that he would be on parolefor years with much the same restrictions? Would thatmake it any different? MS. SADIN: It presents a different question. I mean, I don't know whether or not the --QUESTION: But I -- I know it's a differentquestion or I wouldn't have asked you. But what --(Laughter.) QUESTION: But what I -- what I want to know is,would you treat it differently or would it be the same? MS. SADIN: If there has been process in connection with the parole determination, the answer isno. That's the fundamental point. Even with respectto -- this Court, again, has never used statistics eventhat -- even that apply to some subset to determine thatan individual poses a present threat, the kind of seriousthreat that the State of Connecticut repeatedly has saidthat is posed by the people on this list. At -- at oralargument below, General Blumenthal argued that this wascrucial information which was necessary to protect thepublic from -- from the kinds of dangers that -- that occurred in the Megan Kanka case. This is not just a -- this is not a system ofgovernment name-calling. It is a system of government-imposed stigma with requirements which preclude someonefrom remaining at liberty if they do not comply and if theinformation that -- and the information that they thengive up to the State, otherwise private, personalinformation, is posted on the Internet for the repeatedly-declared purpose of protecting the public from the peoplewho are posted. And again, the Federal Wetterling Act requiresonly that relevant information be released that isnecessary to protect the public from a particular person. That is why this is an individual --QUESTION: How does the statute work with somebody who changes his name? MS. SADIN: Excuse me? QUESTION: How does the statute work withsomeone who changes his name? MS. SADIN: If you change your address, if youchange your name, you must -- you must report to theState.QUESTION: If you change your address.MS. SADIN: If you change your address. QUESTION: But what if you change your name? MS. SADIN: You -- you -- I think you would haveto report that too. I don't remember whether there's aparticular provision, but there -- there are provisionsthat you must -- you must update your current address andinformation, and I -- I presume name is -- is the same.QUESTION: And I -- but if you change yourappearance by shaving off your beard or something likethat, do they require reporting of that? MS. SADIN: It does actually, and you arerequired to submit to photographs whenever and whereverthe State tells you to and at least every years. Theanswer is yes. You cannot even leave the State for --for, you know, any -- any substantial period of timewithout reporting -- without reporting that. And all ofthis is on pain of felony conviction. That's true even if the underlying conviction which requires you to reportwere a misdemeanor. And one more -- one final point. The hearingsthat are -- about which the Attorney General says there isno reliability, not only are they conducted under theFederal Wetterling Act and in connection with theexemptions and exceptions under Connecticut's act, butthere are a number of States with already streamlined,well-positioned systems who conduct these kinds ofhearings and who provide process. There has been no complaint that those are unworkable systems. They areperformed -- the -- the -- less than half the States inthis country have categorical notification systems likeConnecticut's.QUESTION: Citizens may not trust them. Citizens have seen too many of these hearings that resultin the release of people who turn out to be dangerous. Why -- why do you insist that the State must tellcitizens, we're not going to give you this informationbecause we have determined that the person is -- is notdangerous and therefore you don't have to worry about it?MS. SADIN: But it isn't a question of justgiving the public truthful information. The issue istelling the public that these are people who need to bemonitored. They are dangerous, not you may think they're dangerous and they -- and you may not, but they are. Thatis why we are doing this to them. That's why we need toknow what they look like and where they live at all times,and you need to know what they look like and where theylive at all times. That sends -- that sends a verydifferent message from they may be or they may not be. That says that they are. QUESTION: May I ask you to turn a littleattention to what is the plus? Because it's hard for meto understand when you take the registry, you say is the plus, and yet, you don't challenge the registry and thedistrict court doesn't require any change whatever in theregistry. So how can something that you say you're notseeking to disturb or at least you're not challenging thedistrict court for not disturbing it is the plus? MS. SADIN: Because they are integrally related. Remember, my understanding of the stigma plus test is thatit was meant to distinguish just plain defamation casesfrom those which really were Fourteenth Amendment claimsbased on something the government was doing to you. Theplus here is that the government requires you, on pain offelony conviction, to provide the personal informationthat then is published. It is an integral system. Itcreates a new class of citizen, a second class of citizen,which has different obligations from other citizens and from which information, personal and otherwise privateinformation, is extracted and then posted. Privatecitizens do not have to tell the State where they live atall times. They don't have to tell the State when theyare leaving. They don't have to provide photographsrepeatedly.QUESTION: Suppose we didn't have the posting,we just had the register, and you had to tell those thingsthat you ordinarily wouldn't have to tell the State.MS. SADIN: It would be a different argument. That -- that's the plus. QUESTION: Thank you, Ms. Sadin. General Blumenthal, you have minutesremaining.REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF RICHARD BLUMENTHALON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERSMR. BLUMENTHAL: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice.Following Justice Ginsburg's question, therereally is no plus here. The point is the registry has notbeen challenged. The registry existed before the posting,the publication, making this information available. Itexists now. If the order were not in effect, even withoutthe requirement in the law that there be Internetpublication, an ordinary citizen could do what TheHartford Courant did and file an information -- Freedom of Information request. The Internet requirement is like aFreedom of Information form of law, and it is unrelated inthe way that Paul v. Davis says it must be related to thesupposed stigma. Even if this Court were to find there's adefamation -- and by the way, Connecticut law has neverrecognized defamation by implication. But even if therewere, Paul v. Davis says that as a result of the actioncomplained of, a right or status recognized previouslyunder State law must be distinctly altered or extinguished.In this instance, there was no pre-existingright not to register. In fact, individuals -- sexoffenders were required to register, and that obligationcontinues to exist afterward. And so what this Courtwould do by accepting the Second Circuit's decision is, ineffect, to constitutionalize tort law in the way that ithas declined to do in Paul v. Davis, Siegert v. Gilley,where again it insisted on some causal link between thedefamation and the supposed loss of right and status. Andthat is utterly lacking here. The supposed harms -- there's nothing in therecord about housing, employment, any other harm thatresults from this supposed stigma, and the stigma itself,to go to the Chief Justice's question, has to be false in order to constitute defamation. This Court said so inCodd v. Velger, and that is plainly not true here becauseall of this information, particularly as to the convictedoffense, is absolutely truthful and leaves toConnecticut's citizens to make the judgment about whetheror not it indicates dangerousness. The disclaimer -- to clear one other point --very specifically says not only that no assessment hasbeen made, but also that the publication or inclusion ofthis individual on the website and on the registry is not to be deemed a judgment or a conclusion that this personis dangerous. There's a specific disclaimer as todangerousness. But even without it, we would contend there's nostigma because all of this information is very simplypublic record information, and under Siegert v. Gilleyparticularly, there is no sufficient link between thesupposed stigma and any loss of right or status. Theresimply is no plus here as this Court has interpreted it toexist and must exist under the standard that this Courthas set forth. We would respectfully submit that at the veryleast, the plus, or the loss of right or change of statusmust arise out of the same action or flow from it in someway. And here plainly the information that's conveyed accurately and truthfully on the registry does not in anyway cause the registration. It does not result from theregistration. The registration continues to exist now andwould continue to exist even after the Internet is takenoff -- is -- come down because of the court order.So we respectfully submit that the court shouldbe reversed. Thank you. CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: Thank you, GeneralBlumenthal. The case is submitted. (Whereupon, at : p.m., the case in theabove-entitled matter was submitted.) 