 IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XERIC ELDRED, ET AL., Petitioners ::v. : No. -JOHN D. ASHCROFT, ATTORNEY GENERAL ::- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XWashington, D.C.Wednesday, October , The above-entitled matter came on for oralargument before the Supreme Court of the United States at: a.m. APPEARANCES:LAWRENCE LESSIG, ESQ., Stanford, California; on behalf ofthe Petitioners.THEODORE B. OLSON, ESQ., Solicitor General, Department ofJustice, Washington, D.C.; on behalf of theRespondent. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC C O N T E N T SORAL ARGUMENT OF LAWRENCE LESSIG, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioners ORAL ARGUMENT OFTHEODORE B. OLSON, ESQ.On behalf of the Respondent REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OFLAWRENCE LESSIG, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioners PAGE th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC P R O C E E D I N G S(: a.m.)CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: We'll hear argumentnow in Number -, Eric Eldred v. John D. Ashcroft.Mr. Lessig.ORAL ARGUMENT OF LAWRENCE LESSIGON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERSMR. LESSIG: Mr. Chief Justice, may it pleasethe Court:Petitioners are before you this morningchallenging Congress's Sonny Bono Copyright TermExtension Act, which extended the term of subsisting andfuture copyrights by years. Petitioners submit such ablanket extension of existing terms exceeds Congress'spower under the Copyright Clause and it violates the FirstAmendment.Now, the Government has responded topetitioners' argument in a way that betrays a simple butfundamental confusion. The Government has argued as ifpetitioners had advanced a general theory of the CopyrightClause, or a general constraint under which Congress mustoperate. That is a mistake. This case is about limits toan enumerated power. It's not about general power ofCongress to exercise its copyright authority. Petitionershave advanced a particular interpretation of the only th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC express limits in the Copyright Clause designed to givethose limits meaning.QUESTION: Mr. Lessig, I'll tell you whatbothers me about your position, and that is that Congresshas extended the term so often through the years, and ifyou are right, don't we run the risk of upsetting previousextensions of time? I mean, this seems to be a practicethat began with the very first act.MR. LESSIG: Justice, we do not believe that thevery first act extended terms at all. Speakingtechnically, which for a lawyer means speaking accurately,the act did not extend a Federal term. The actgranted a term for works that already existed in preciselythe pattern that the English parliament had done in theStatute of Anne in , and that the English parliamentdid with monopolies, general monopolies in the statuteof --QUESTION: But there have been a number ofextensions since.MR. LESSIG: That's right.QUESTION: Even if you can get over the firsthurdle.MR. LESSIG: That's right. That's the importanthurdle, and we'd like to jump that first, but the otherones, Justice, you're right, in and in Congress th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC extended terms in a way that is inconsistent with thestrongest form of the test that we have advanced. Thoseextensions, however, were never challenged in any courtand certainly not considered by this Court.QUESTION: Well, doesn't that itself meansomething, Mr. Lessig? The fact that they were neverchallenged, perhaps most people, and perhaps everybodyfelt there was no basis for challenging them.MR. LESSIG: Well, Mr. Chief Justice, it'sabsolutely true that this case is here because of afundamentally important changed circumstance that makesthe Framers' limitations on the Copyright Clause much moresignificant. This is the first time I can remember wherethis Court has been pointed to changed circumstances as areason to reaffirm the Framers' values, because for mostof this period, Mr. Chief Justice, the only people whowere regulated by copyright law under the Copyright Actwould have been commercial publishers, primarily, and nowfor the first time the scope of this exclusive right hasexpanded because of the changed technology of the Internetto reach an extraordinarily broad range of creativity thatnever would have been imagined before.Now, it's not the case that the earlierextensions were not questioned on constitutional grounds. In fact, Melville Nimmer, in the consideration of the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC act, suggested they were plainly under --QUESTION: Well, I'm talking about courtchallenges, not academic challenges.MR. LESSIG: That's right, there is no courtchallenge.QUESTION: Mr. Lessig, your theory, as Iunderstand it, regardless of changed circumstances or not,your basic theory, which on your argument would have beenappropriate at any time historically, is that there has atleast got to be the possibility of a kind of a causalconnection between the extension and the promotion orinducement for the creation of some subsequent work, butwhy is that any more plausible a reading of the PromotionClause than simply a reading that says the PromotionClause requires that there be a general scheme in place,which overall tends to promote or induce, and part of oneaspect of that scheme can be that the -- that at thediscretion of Congress the period of protection isextended from time to time? Why do you require -- why do you say the clause hasgot to be read by this kind of specific causation theoryas opposed to a kind of systemic theory of promotion?MR. LESSIG: Justice Souter, the reason isexactly related to the point I began with, that this is acase about limits and not about discretion. If it's not th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC the case that this Court --QUESTION: No, but that's -- I mean, that's theissue in the alternative reading.MR. LESSIG: That's right.QUESTION: And why is it a limit case, ratherthan a discretion within a general scheme kind --MR. LESSIG: That's right.QUESTION: -- of clause?MR. LESSIG: Because if this Court does notadopt a reading of the form we've offered, then there isno limit to the ability of Congress to extend subsistingterms.QUESTION: Do you say the same thing for scope? This case is about duration, but Congress from time totime -- in fact, you mentioned --MR. LESSIG: Yes.QUESTION: -- the expanded applications ofcopyright, and Congress itself extends the scope from timeto time.MR. LESSIG: That's right.QUESTION: Would you make, as far as, say,translation rights that didn't exist before, the sameargument?MR. LESSIG: I --QUESTION: Why -- or -- and if you wouldn't, why th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC not?MR. LESSIG: I -- no, Justice Ginsburg, we wouldnot, and the reason is again related to the method we haveadopted to interpret "limited times." We have not saidthat "promote the progress of science" is a general andindependent constraint on the Copyright Clause authority. We've said it must be looked to to interpret the scope of"limited times," and unless retrospective extensions areforbidden, it will eviscerate the meaning of "limitedtimes." That does not occur in the context of the scopeof exclusive right, nor in the context of the power tosecure. If that's --QUESTION: Could we then go back to JusticeO'Connor's question? To make that very specific, if weagree with you, does that mean that we would, inprinciple, have to hold the extensionunconstitutional? I mean, in , Congress extended theterm from years renewable once, to life of the authorplus years. Now they're extending it life of theauthor plus . If the latter is unconstitutional on yourtheory, how could the former not be? And if the formeris, the chaos that would ensue would be horrendous.MR. LESSIG: Justice Breyer, under our theory aswe've advanced it, you're right; the act would beunconstitutional. Whether this Court would apply such a th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC holding in this case to that act is a question that wouldhave to be resolved under the retrospective --QUESTION: Maybe we ought to find anothertheory, then. Is there any --(Laughter.)MR. LESSIG: Justice, the theory, which wouldadvance the aim of limiting times in a way that isenforceable, is only applicable in the case that webrought before you here to the ' act, and would notnecessarily be applicable under the ' act for thereasons the Government has offered. We would not advancethis argument, but the Government has offered an argumentin a parallel case that suggests a distinction between the' act and this case. That's not been briefed here. It's been grounded in their claim that the treaty powercreates some special power. We wouldn't advance thatclaim, but the point is there are a number of issues thatthe ' act --QUESTION: In essence, you think it's at leastarguable that the ' act had various positive aspects toit in terms of the purpose of the Copyright Clause thatthis act lacks?MR. LESSIG: That's certainly true, and we alsobelieve that, for the reasons averted to by amicus AOL inthis case and the reasons you've just suggested, the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC disruption in that context under the retrospectivity casesRyder and Reynoldsville Casket Company would be sufficientto fit it within the, quote, "severe disruption exception"to the retrospectivity. QUESTION: Well, I suppose implicit in theargument that the ' act, too, should have been declaredvoid, and that we might leave it alone because of thedisruption, is that for all these years the act hasimpeded progress in science and the useful arts. I justdon't see any empirical evidence for that.MR. LESSIG: Justice, we are not making anempirical claim at all. Nothing in our Copyright Clauseclaim hangs upon the empirical assertion about impedingprogress. Our only argument is, this is a structurallimit necessary to assure that what would be aneffectively perpetual term not be permitted under thecopyright laws.QUESTION: Well, perhaps I misunderstood. Ithought the whole thrust of your argument was that thereis a great First Amendment force here that's beingsilenced, that's being thwarted.MR. LESSIG: Well, the thrust certainly --QUESTION: I thought that's the wholeunderpinning of your case.MR. LESSIG: It's certainly the case that we are th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC asserting, in light of the changed circumstances, that theopportunity to build upon works within the public domainis a fundamental First Amendment interest, and that theFirst Amendment values, vital speech interest at stake ofthis case, is that the public domain be permitted as asource for cultivating work about our culture withoutunnecessary legal restriction.QUESTION: Well, but you want more than that. You want the right to copy verbatim other people's books,don't you?MR. LESSIG: We want the right to copy verbatimworks that should be in the public domain and would be inthe public domain but for a statute that cannot bejustified under ordinary First Amendment analysis or undera proper reading of the limits built into the CopyrightClause.QUESTION: Mr. Lessig, on your First Amendmentargument I don't see where the retroactivity-prospectivitycomes in, because -- I follow your argument under theCopyright Clause, but if you're saying that the time istoo long, the public domain should get this stuff soonerrather than later, would you explain to me how yourprospectivity-retrospective line fits into your FirstAmendment claim?MR. LESSIG: Justice, we've argued that it would th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC be inappropriate in this case for the Court to considerthe prospective line until they decide whether the case,whether the prospective and retrospective is severable,and we submit it's an easy case to show that it's not.QUESTION: On the First Amendment --MR. LESSIG: Yes.QUESTION: -- argument you're making that as, Itake it, an argument independent of, it doesn't hang onyour Copyright Clause argument.MR. LESSIG: That's right. I --QUESTION: And so let's just take -- let's saythat was your only argument in this case. How does thattie into a retrospective-prospective distinction?MR. LESSIG: Well, the strongest First Amendmentargument is about the retrospective extension, because ofa fundamental change that occurs when Congress extendssubsisting copyrights, rather than when Congresslegislates prospectively.When Congress legislates prospectively, it hasno way to know who's going to benefit from its extension. It is simply evaluating what the term should beprospectively in a way that we presume this Court shouldpresume is legitimate under the First Amendment. When itlegislates retrospectively, it is, in effect, looking atparticular authors and estates of authors who are before th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Congress asking for this extension, and it's choosingbetween these particular authors and the public at large.Now, it may be that in exercising that choice inthis case, Congress made an objective valuation of whowould be in the best position to advance the interests ofpromoting the progress of science, or any original --QUESTION: But you -- under your intermediatescrutiny test we would not be hypothesizing what mighthave been in Congress's mind. Your First Amendment testis a stringent one. You have to have an importantpurpose, and the means that you use is necessarily tied tothat purpose. If you take that position, I don't see howyou make the retroactive-prospective line work.MR. LESSIG: Well, the line comes from decidingwhat the First Amendment interest is, and if this Courtheed the First Amendment interest off of this differencebetween selecting who gets the benefit of years ofextension and just simply legislating in a general wayprospectively, then this Court could hold, with respect tothe prospective, that it's not even necessary to raise theintermediate scrutiny in that context, but again, forAshwander reasons we don't think that this Court shouldaddress the prospective aspect of the CTEA even under theFirst Amendment.QUESTION: Even though Congress's pattern has th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC been to treat all authors equally? I mean, the reasonthat it's been prospective and retrospective is thatpeople should be, people who hold copyrights should besubject to the same regime and not have some people whogot their copyrights the week before the law passedtreated differently than people who got it the week after.MR. LESSIG: Well, Justice, that certainly isthe reason the Government offers for this pattern. It, ofcourse, doesn't explain actually what Congress has doneand, even in this case, when a work has passed into thepublic domain, then there is precisely the sameweek before/week after problem that you advert to, thatextension does not extend to all subsisting works, it onlyextends to all subsisting copyrights. So that line isalready drawn in the practice that Congress has adopted,but our point is, the only way to assure --QUESTION: But Congress has -- or, you're notdisputing that Congress has always made these extensions,both retroactive and prospective?MR. LESSIG: Well, in it did not. In it granted the benefit of its extension to a subset of allsubsisting copyright holders.QUESTION: Let's stick with .MR. LESSIG: In --QUESTION: Because that was what you said -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC that's -- the pattern under the CTEA is identical to theone in the ' act.MR. LESSIG: That's absolutely right, yes. Sothey have extended it to both. But our argument is,unless this Court draws a line about this extension, thenfor the reasons Judge Sentelle suggested below, there willbe no limit to Congress's ability to --QUESTION: Judge Sentelle did not deal with theFirst Amendment, as far as I --MR. LESSIG: That's right.QUESTION: -- recall.MR. LESSIG: That's right.QUESTION: And so I'm asking you -- perhaps I'mmissing it. I haven't seen where you get theprospective-retrospective in connection with your FirstAmendment. It seems that you're just saying there that years is an unreasonable -- is not necessary.MR. LESSIG: Yes.QUESTION: And it doesn't serve an importantpurpose.MR. LESSIG: Yes. Precisely -- actually, we'renot saying anything about the years in this case evenunder the First Amendment, because we believe it'sunseverable, but --QUESTION: But I thought you were saying that if th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC you accept the Copyright Clause argument, then you have away, in effect, of devaluing the Government's claim of itsimportant interest and important objective when you get tothe First Amendment intermediate scrutiny analysis. Whereas if you don't accept the Copyright Clause claim,then, in order to make the First Amendment analysis we'vesimply got to say, well, gee, is the promotion of usefulart and so on more important than the public domain, andcan we say that that allows a distinction between yearsand years?We're pretty much at sea, so I thought yourCopyright Clause argument was necessary to give us somehandle with which to deal with the First Amendment.MR. LESSIG: Our Copyright Clause argument iscertainly a way of framing why extensions of subsistingterms cannot be seen to promote the First Amendmentinterest of speech at all.QUESTION: Okay. Let's assume we don't -- forthe sake of argument here, let's assume we don't acceptthe Copyright Clause argument. Do you have an independentFirst Amendment argument in your brief?MR. LESSIG: Yes, of course we do.QUESTION: Okay, and it is -- tell me in asentence or two what it is. I mean, at that point I'mwhere Justice Ginsburg is. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. LESSIG: Yes. The First Amendment argumentwe've argued in our brief is with respect to theretrospective extension, and the First Amendment argumentis, that needs to --QUESTION: No, but that's the Copyright Clauseargument, and it seems to me you're saying, okay, we thenapply that in First Amendment analysis, which allows us tomake a coherent intermediate scrutiny argument.If we don't accept the Copyright Clauseretrospectivity argument --MR. LESSIG: Yes.QUESTION: -- then what is your First Amendmentargument?MR. LESSIG: That's right, I'm sorry, Justice. What I'm saying is not that it's the retrospectivity thatmakes the First Amendment argument troubling -- I mean,that drives our First Amendment argument. All I'm sayingis, we have addressed the retrospective portion of CTEA,and so I'm saying in the retrospective portion of CTEA youwould apply ordinary, intermediate First Amendment review,and you would ask --QUESTION: Well, this Court really has not -- ifyou say that the Copyright Clause is not violated, I don'tthink there are examples where this Court has thenresorted to First Amendment analysis to invalidate the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC same act.MR. LESSIG: Well --QUESTION: I mean, this would be quite a newproposition.MR. LESSIG: Well, Justice O'Connor, the FirstAmendment is always an independent limitation on whatotherwise would be legitimate exercises of congressionalauthority, so this --QUESTION: Yes, but the Framers seem to haveadopted these two things at the same time --MR. LESSIG: That's right.QUESTION: -- in effect.MR. LESSIG: That's right, and if --QUESTION: And I think there are not examplesthat I can think of where we have said, well, we'llanalyze it under the Copyright Clause, but if thatfails we'll turn to the First Amendment.MR. LESSIG: Justice, that's right. If only wehad the Framers' copyright before us, because of course,again remember,the exclusive right the Framers spoke ofwas the right to print and publish. It didn't include thederivative rights, it didn't include the display rights,and it certainly --QUESTION: Right. It has expanded very much,and they also envisioned a very short term, and I can find th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC a lot of fault with what Congress did here --MR. LESSIG: That's right.QUESTION: -- because it does take a lot ofthings out of the public domain that one would think thatsomeone in Congress would want to think hard about.MR. LESSIG: That's right.QUESTION: But having done that, it's verydifficult to find the basis in the Constitution for sayingit isn't a limited term. It's longer than one might thinkdesirable --MR. LESSIG: Right.QUESTION: -- but is it not limited?MR. LESSIG: Well, if it is limited, then thereis no limit to the ability of Congress to extendsubsisting terms, and that fundamentally destroys theobjective that the --QUESTION: The rule against perpetuities mightjump in there at some point.(Laughter.)MR. LESSIG: Right, and we submit the Framershad something very different in mind than the rule againstperpetuities. The point is, if this is permitted, thenthere is no limit to the ability to extend terms, and thatis precisely contrary to what the Framers had in mind whenthey worried about this problem originally. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC What was the problem they were solving? It was,as this Court stated in Graham --QUESTION: Well, I could agree with you, interms of policy, that this flies directly in the face ofwhat the Framers had in mind, absolutely. But does itviolate the Constitution?MR. LESSIG: Well, if it flies in the face ofwhat the Framers had in mind, then the question is, isthere a way of interpreting their words that gives effectto what they had in mind, and the answer is yes.QUESTION: Well, you know, certainly what ishappening in the country today in the way ofcongressional -- under the Commerce Clause is totallydifferent than what the Framers had in mind, but we'venever felt that that was the criterion. What the Framersthought of, there weren't steamboats, there weren'trailroads.MR. LESSIG: That's right.QUESTION: We've said there was a general grant,and that Congress was free to run with it in manyrespects.MR. LESSIG: In many respects, Mr. ChiefJustice, but, as this Court has also said, there arelimits to what Congress can do under the Commerce Clause.QUESTION: But isn't -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: Can I ask you about one of thelimits, just focusing on the Copyright Clause and theprogress of science and useful arts? In your view, doesthat -- is that limited to encouraging creativity byauthors and inventors, or does it also include thedistribution of materials that might not otherwise bedistributed, like old films and so forth?MR. LESSIG: We're happy to adopt a broaderinterpretation of what promote the progress is about,within the general framework that the Framers establishedin light of the English practice, which was a quid proquo. The ability to facilitate distribution --QUESTION: So that if the quid pro quo is thatwe can facilitate distribution of some old film by anadditional monopoly grant, you'd think that's permissible?MR. LESSIG: So long as the grant is conditionedupon the distribution. So long as the grant --QUESTION: In other words you could have --right now, if Congress decides to have a law, and this lawis going to give copyrights in ) the Bible, )Shakespeare, ) Ben Jonson, and the reason they do it isthat they think that that would lead publishers to producethose and distribute them, and they're right, they will,okay? In your view, that's perfectly constitutional?MR. LESSIG: No, that's the view of the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Government's, Justice Breyer. My view is --QUESTION: Well, I thought that was the questionyou were getting, and I thought you were saying -- I musthave misunderstood. I thought you were saying that wasconstitutional.MR. LESSIG: No. What we were saying is, ifCongress wants to permit restoration of films, forexample, an issue that's been well briefed here, Congresscan say, if you restore the film, then the restorationgets a copyright so long as it satisfies originality asoutlined in Feist, and it gets a copyright for a period oftime. But this Court's opinion in Graham and in Feistmade clear that it could not extend copyrights to works inthe public domain. The Government doesn't concede that,but we stand on that as a way of understanding why thisCourt --QUESTION: So your answer to Justice Stevens isno, they cannot give a copyright purely for purposes ofdissemination to publishers, is that right?MR. LESSIG: No.QUESTION: Oh, all right.MR. LESSIG: They cannot give a copyright purelyfor purposes of distribution to publishers.(Laughter.)MR. LESSIG: They would need to satisfy all of th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC the implied limitations that this Court has expressed inthe context of this, the most carefully limited clause inArticle I, section . It is one of the --QUESTION: Mr. Lessig, the clause says, Congressshall, and suppose Congress decides in this expanded worldof ours that it's going to make certain changes and demandother changes from our treaty partners. Suppose it says,well, the Germans led the fight for years in theEuropean Union, we'll go with that, but we're going toinsist that they have a more expansive notion of, say, afair use. Now, why couldn't that fit within the promotionof knowledge?MR. LESSIG: Justice Ginsburg, we have noquarrel with the objective of harmonization fitting withinthe "promote the progress of science" understanding,subject to constitutional limitations.If France adopted a rule that said you couldn'tgrant copyrights to hate speech, we could not harmonizewith that rule consistent with our First Amendment andsimilarly, as Mary Beth Peters testified before Congress,ours is the only Constitution that has an expresslimitation on terms. That's got to mean something, and ifit means that we are limited in our ability to agree withthe Europeans as they continually expand the term in lightof their own vision of what copyright is about, then th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC that's the meaning of a constitutional restriction.This Court's interpretation of "limited times"could, of course, eviscerate that term of any meaning, butunder the principle of enumeration as this Court hasarticulated it, this Court should interpret that clause ina way that gives its terms effect in a simple way. Justas a limited addition print is not a limited -- is notlimited if each time a customer comes in a new print isprinted, so, too, a limited term is not limited if eachtime copyright holders come to Congress they can extendthe term.QUESTION: Well, but the difference -- thereason that analogy doesn't cut it for me is that thelimited edition print depends basically on an impliedunderstanding between the person who makes the print andthe person who buys it, and the understanding is, youwon't go beyond , or whatever number you write.We're not engaged in a contractual analysisunder the Copyright Clause between the writer and the --and somebody representing the public domain.MR. LESSIG: That's right.QUESTION: The analogy doesn't seem to work.MR. LESSIG: That's right. All that I'msuggesting is, here is a plain meaning of the term thatgives effect to the constitutional limit in a way that th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC assures that, in fact, the limit is respected, contrary tothe Government's argument, which, in effect, permitsCongress the power perpetually to extend terms.If I may reserve the remainder of my time.QUESTION: Very well, Mr. Lessig.General Olson, we'll hear from you.ORAL ARGUMENT OF THEODORE B. OLSONON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTGENERAL OLSON: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court:The questions today, especially the initialquestions, suggest one of the many insurmountableobstacles to petitioners' petition in, position in thiscase. That is that the first Congress explicitly gavecopyright protection to the authors of any books alreadyprinted as well as explicitly the owners of existingcopyrights. Thereafter, in , , , and ,and in numerous private copyright bills and temporaryextensions of the copyright law and in repeated patent lawrevisions, Congress extended the terms of Federalcopyright and patent protection of subsisting works.As this Court explained and some years agoin its Burrows-Giles opinion, such constructions areaccorded very great weight and, as that Court went on tosay, when consistent and unchallenged for over a century th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC are almost conclusive that consistent construction byCongress of its authority under the Copyright and PatentClause now has lasted from the th -- from the firstthrough the th Congress. It has been sustained byJustices of this Court and early decisions of this Court. It is consistent with what the law of England was from theStatute of Anne --QUESTION: Yes, but take one of the earlyextensions, just extending a -- an already granted patentto an inventor for an extra years. How can that besquared with the language of the provision? MaybeCongress did it, but maybe it acted improperly when it didit.GENERAL OLSON: Well, the Congress --QUESTION: And that's our question, really.GENERAL OLSON: Well, that -- it seems to methat there may be -- this is -- the clause itself is avery, very broad grant. It says the --QUESTION: Do you view it as entirely a grant,or do you think it also contains limitations?GENERAL OLSON: Well, I think that to the extentthat there may be limitations, Justice Stevens, theyare -- require considerable deference by this Court to thejudgment of Congress --QUESTION: Well, I understand that, but do th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC you -- I'd be interested in knowing, do you think it doescontain limitations?GENERAL OLSON: It contains -- the clause itselfcontains limitations, limited times, authors, exclusiverights and things of that nature. I don't think -- andthe petitioners expressly disclaim the assertion thatthere are any substantive limitations in the "Promote the-Progress" Clause.What the Framers were saying is, we want to giveCongress the authority to promote the progress of usefularts and sciences, and --QUESTION: How did the example we just talkedabout, a patentee giving an extra years on his -- howdoes that promote the progress of science?GENERAL OLSON: Well, it may provide additionalincentives for the patentee to exploit and promote anddisseminate that particular work. With respect tocreative works like works of art, books and that sort ofthing, it may provide many ways --QUESTION: I'm just concentrating on ourpatentee, and I'm wondering how that fits into the notionthat there was a bargain in effect between the inventorand the Government that at a certain period of time itwould become part of the public domain. It seems to meit's inconsistent with that. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC GENERAL OLSON: It isn't inconsistent, I submit,Justice Stevens, for the Congress to exercise its juris --its responsibility under this broad grant of power todetermine that there could be many ways in which theholder of an existing right may benefit the public bycontinuing to have that right for an additional period oftime, the same reason that Congress -- same reasons thatCongress had when it created the right in the first place. It's not just the right --QUESTION: No, the reason for the right in thefirst place was to encourage invention.GENERAL OLSON: Well, but I -- we submit thatspecifically with respect to the Copyright Clause, but Ithink it applies to the patent portion of the clause atall, it isn't just the invention, it isn't just thewriting of the work -- and this relates to the questionsthat were asked of my colleague a moment ago. It includesthe dissemination of the work, not necessarily --QUESTION: Dissemination alone?GENERAL OLSON: Not necessarily thedissemination alone --QUESTION: Well, no, not -- don't say notnecessarily. I'm -- for purposes of my thinking about it,I'd like to know, imagine we have just dissemination.GENERAL OLSON: That something is already in the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC public domain.QUESTION: That's correct. The onlyjustification for the extension, there is no other, isdissemination of a work that is already in existence.GENERAL OLSON: I would not want to rule thatout, Justice Breyer, for the very reason --QUESTION: Well, I want to say, do you think yesor no?GENERAL OLSON: Well, I think that it could verywell be yes, for the reason that in the statute theCongress specifically was aware of -- that there wereState copyright laws which didn't last as long as theFederal statute. Several of the States hadn't finishedenacting those copyright laws, and a couple of Stateshadn't enacted them at all. QUESTION: So in your opinion, in my example, ifyou recall it --GENERAL OLSON: It's --QUESTION: -- your answer would be, if Congresstomorrow wants to give a copyright to a publisher solelyfor the purpose of reproducing and disseminating BenJonson, Shakespeare, it can do it?GENERAL OLSON: It may --QUESTION: I hate to say may --GENERAL OLSON: Well -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: -- because that really -- that's animportant question.GENERAL OLSON: Well, because I don't think thata per -- I don't think there is a per se rule that shouldapply here because this is a grant of Congress, toCongress to exercise its judgment as to what may bebeneficial. There may be other constitutional provisionsthat come into play, or there may be other existing --QUESTION: All right, let me explain to you whyit's important to me. I have a list. This is an economicstatute. The harms that seem to be caused by it, theextension, I've listed as follows, approximate numbers,made up, but magnitude correct.The existing copyright holders who survive,their copyright survives years, who have already beenpaid, on the numbers that were given, about $ billion ormore, will receive an extra $ billion. That, I take it,is a harm. Their works have already been created.Harm number . The fact that people, for the percent of the copyrights that have no commercial valueafter years, have to find the copyright holder to putthem in databases. The cost of that, on my numbers inhere, made up, at least a billion dollars, or they can'tfind the people at all and get permission, an innumerablecost, un -- valuable cost to people who want to use it. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Those are costs.On the plus side I see uniformity,dissemination, and -- now, you tell me.GENERAL OLSON: Well, I also see compliance withinternational competitive markets and the laws that arebeing adopted, and the incentives --QUESTION: Uniformity. That's uniformity.GENERAL OLSON: Well, that's not justuniformity. It's providing incentive to people to publishhere, as opposed to publish in Europe, where longer termsmight be available. There is an incentive to distributeexisting works that may be necessary. It's theconsistency that Congress is promoting by saying toindividuals, as they might have said when they enacted theCopyright Clause in the first place, we will not only giveyou years, but if we change our mind tomorrow, andthink that a better, a longer period is necessary,we're -- this is consistency, but it's also a matter offairness, and it's --QUESTION: Why -- on the last point, it's --I've counted that as zero. The reason I've counted it aszero is it seems to me that the added value, incentivevalue to produce between life plus , or life plus , iszero. It's carried out, as the economists do, to threedecimal points, divide by for the probability of your th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ever having such a work, and you get virtually zero, nodifference between this and a perpetual copyright.GENERAL OLSON: Well, I think that that's a verygood illustration of why the authority is granted toCongress, because if you are an -year-old writer, thatmay make a considerable difference in terms of what youdecide to do.QUESTION: How could it?GENERAL OLSON: It may -- because you may -- ifyou have no incentive, if you know that this is going togo into the public domain sooner rather than later, it mayaffect your judgment with respect to --QUESTION: In -- I --GENERAL OLSON: It might also affect whether thepublisher -- what the publisher pays for your prospectivework, Justice Breyer. We -- the Copyright Clauseincentive provides incentives not just for -- not just tothe creators, but to the disseminators, the publishers,the broadcasters, the film companies.QUESTION: So you think, say, Verdi, Othello,Verdi, Othello, years old, the prospect of an extra years way down the pike would have made a difference?GENERAL OLSON: Well, I think again thatillustrates why the authority is vested in Congress tomake these judgments rather than in courts to make these th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC judgments, because we're not talking about the effect onan individual author, or an individual creator. What theFramers of the Constitution were concerned about is agross judgment with respect to what might generallyprovide incentives to the population --QUESTION: But it is hard to understand how, ifthe overall purpose of the Copyright Clause is toencourage creative work, how some retroactive extensioncould possibly do that. I -- one wonders what was in theminds of the Congress, even if somehow they didn't violatethe clause. But if we affirm here, is there any limitingprinciple out there that would ever kick in?GENERAL OLSON: Well, that's a -- that is adifficult question to say whether there is any limitingprinciple when such a broad grant of power, authority isgiven to Congress and has been exercised so repeatedlythat --QUESTION: Well, if it's a limited term, as theConstitution says, is there indeed any limit out there?GENERAL OLSON: What I submit -- well, first ofall, even the petitioners acknowledge that, as far asprospective limits are concerned, that isn't a judgmentthat this Court is being made to ask and, in fact, thepetitioners acknowledge that it isn't a judgment that thisCourt should make, so the only point that the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC petitioners --QUESTION: Well, if Congress says we're going togrant this copyright indefinitely, forever --GENERAL OLSON: That would seem --QUESTION: -- that violates the limited term,does it not?GENERAL OLSON: I acknowledge that. Andanything that --QUESTION: In Victorian England you could buy abox seat for years. There was serene complacencyabout their culture, and God bless them, but --(Laughter.)QUESTION: -- I really think this is animportant question and, as Justice O'Connor points out, ifwe have to ask what's the most plausible explanation forthis rule, to reward existing vested interest or tostimulate new works, it seems to me that it's probably theformer.GENERAL OLSON: Well --QUESTION: I mean, we know that.GENERAL OLSON: It is -- well, it -- let me saywith respond -- in response to both of those questions, anunlimited time would violate the Copyright Clause. Something that was the functional equivalent of anunlimited time would violate the Copyright Clause, but the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Framers specifically did not put in numbers. They had theopportunity to do that. Thomas Jefferson suggested that anumber should be put in. We submit that it would be --even -- since the petitioners don't suggest that it's anappropriate function of this Court, certainly in thiscase, to pick a number, years or something of thatnature, but it is quite clear that Congress from theStatute of Anne, , we have years of history, ofCongress thinking that it continues to benefit theprocess, not just of the productivity, of the creation ofthe work itself, but the dissemination of it to provide --QUESTION: General Olson, you say that thefunctional equivalent of an unlimited time would be aviolation, but that's precisely the argument that's beingmade by petitioners here, that a limited time which isextendable is the functionable, functional equivalent ofan unlimited time, a limited time that years from nowcan be extended, and then extended again, and extendedagain. Why -- their argument is precisely that, a limitedtime doesn't mean anything unless it means, once you haveestablished the limit for works that have been createdunder that limit, that's the end.GENERAL OLSON: Well, the Framers had anopportunity to say immutable, unalterable, unamendable. They didn't use that. They used the phrase, limited term, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC which means then, meant then and means now, a certainspecified --QUESTION: Okay, assuming --GENERAL OLSON: -- number of years under thestatute.QUESTION: With the exception of a limitationwhich illustrates the distinction between forever on theone hand and a definite number on the other, is there anylimitation in the clause? Does the promotion, does thepreambular recitation of promotion as such place a limiton it?GENERAL OLSON: I submit, Justice Souter, thatthere's no per se limitation, that if there is, as JusticeScalia suggested, for -- if it is true that Congress,having specified years or years, decides thatdoesn't work very well because of the economies of othercountries, the parade of constraints on artists in othercountries, the reasons that we want things to be preservedor distributed, it should be more years, or more yearslater --QUESTION: Yes, but that argument would apply tonew copyrights, but to extension of already existingcopyrights your argument doesn't apply.GENERAL OLSON: It does apply, Justice Stevens,because -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: The work has already been created.GENERAL OLSON: The work has already beencreated, but the artists that are creating works day inand day out take into consideration the fact that Congresshas decided, there's an ease of administration --QUESTION: But for them, they get the benefit ofthe longer term if you don't apply it to an existingcopyright. I mean, if you say you need years becauseof changes in the economy to encourage works, you grant for the future, but why does that, making that apply tosomebody who created his work years ago and has alreadyprovided what he, the quid pro quo, why do you need it forhim? GENERAL OLSON: We're not just -- because we'renot just talking about the author. If we -- we're talkingabout --QUESTION: The Constitution refers to theauthors and the inventors, doesn't it? They're certainlythe prime actors in this scene, aren't they?GENERAL OLSON: Yes, but all of the history ofthe development of these clauses suggests that -- and thisCourt has indicated in its decisions with respect tocopyright, that the Framers were concerned and theCongress is legitimately concerned not just in providingthe spark of creativity, but to make sure that that's th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC distributed widely and available, and there may be manyreasons why -- we're -- we --QUESTION: And that it gets into the publicdomain at the expiration of the term. That was animportant part of the bargain.GENERAL OLSON: Yes, and what -- but thedefinition of the term was a responsibility vested inCongress, because it has the power -- the legislativehistory of the act itself suggests what was going onhere and suggests why the Framers gave this authority toCongress. There were numerous hearings, there weretestimony by the folks that represent the same position aspetitioners here as to why this shouldn't be done, why itshould be done.Congress weighed -- as this Court, the phrasethat this Court used, I think it was in the Feist case,the delicate balance that was so difficult for Congressto --QUESTION: How --QUESTION: Okay, but you --QUESTION: -- what weighs in that balance,because to go back for one second, in practical, economicterms I gather the difference between a copyright thatlasts for years, lasts for , years, lasts forever,is probably something less than , -- on $, a th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC penny. I mean, it's a penny on ,, or probably a lotless than that, frankly. So I can not only not imagine aperson whose decision to write would be governed by such athing, I cannot imagine a European who would come toAmerica to copyright his work for such a reason. Indeed,I wonder why that European wouldn't come anyway, even ifthe term were years, because if he doesn't come, he'snot going to get protection.GENERAL OLSON: Well, the --QUESTION: I mean, who are these people that aregoing to be moved by that incentive?GENERAL OLSON: The -- as we described in ourbrief, in pages through , I believe it is in ourbrief, that the concerns about the limitation onexploitation and the limitation of a copyright period inEurope is based upon the country of origin of the work andthe shortest time available. So that there may bedifferences, and we describe that, but that illustrates,Justice Breyer, the difference between cents and cents and $ with respect to this particular authorwho's this particular age, or a particular author likeMelville, whose works weren't -- weren't -- didn't -- orSchubert, whose works weren't properly appreciated orexploitable until many years after their death.All of these variations are quintessentially th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC legislative judgments. It would be very difficult for theFramers to have eschewed deciding years was aconstitutional limitation, and for this Court to say years is, and again, even the petitioners aren't askingthe Court to make that judgment. The petitioners are onlysaying that there shall be a per se rule that the word"limited times," means unchangeable times.QUESTION: But there has to be a limit, as youacknowledge. Perpetual copyright is not permitted. Whois the judge of -- within that line? Who is the judge ofwhen it becomes unlimited? Is there, in other words,judicial review and, if there is, what standard would thisCourt apply to determine whether something short ofperpetual is still unlimited?GENERAL OLSON: Well, the issue before thisCourt, I hasten to say, as I said before, is only whether,once the Congress makes that judgment, it can ever changeit retrospectively. The issue before this Court is notwhether, in the future, a certain length of time would beappropriate. That -- but the answer to that, JusticeGinsburg, I submit, is found in the Necessary and ProperClause, and this Court's interpretation of the Necessaryand Proper Clause as to the extent that this Court wouldfind or not find that the judgment made by Congress withrespect to the implementation of this very broad power is th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC convenient or useful in terms of the achievement of thegoals.QUESTION: Okay, and is your argument that weshould so find and hold against their retrospectiveargument, because there is some, at least plausible basisto say that there can be a causal connection between theretrospective extension and some benefit that can betraced to those particular works through the retrospectiveextension, like dissemination? Is that your argument?GENERAL OLSON: That is among our arguments,Justice Souter.QUESTION: Is it also your argument that even ifyou cannot trace that kind, or at least plausibly arguethat there could be that kind of a causal benefit, that itwould still be constitutional, because you should judgethe extension simply as contributing to a general system,one feature of which is that from time to time there maybe retrospective extensions, and so long as that generalsystem induces the creation of works, or the disseminationof works, or the preservation of works, so long as thegeneral system works, there is no review, no limitation onthe tinkering that can be done, even retrospectively? Isthat also your argument?GENERAL OLSON: I think that's a fair statementof an argument that we have made and articulated in the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC brief --QUESTION: Okay.GENERAL OLSON: -- that unless there is a -- theCourt is -- because the circumstances change, that we areliving in an era now where piracy is a significantproblem, there's question of administrative ease, ofadministering a system where copyrights may be differentfor one set of authors, or different for another set ofauthors, there's changes that are taking placeinternationally, so that what we're saying is that notonly could this Court conceive of reasons why Congressthought it was accomplishing the objectives of thisclause, but that there are numerous objectives that areentirely legitimate in --QUESTION: Do you also argue that the Necessaryand Proper Clause alone will justify the retroactiveextension simply as a matter of equity?GENERAL OLSON: Yes.QUESTION: That is, that the Copyright Clausejustifies the extension for works not yet created, but itwould be enormously inequitable to have other authors whoput in the same amount of work get a lesser protection, sothe Necessary and Proper Clause now allows you to do theretrospective?GENERAL OLSON: Yes, Justice Scalia, and the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC examples that are --QUESTION: Can I ask you, why is it enormouslyinequitable if they get exactly what they were entitled toat the time they made the work?GENERAL OLSON: The implicit promise that --QUESTION: I mean, they have some right toexpect that they will be -- you know, an additional grant,later on?GENERAL OLSON: I think that's not anunreasonable expectation at all, Justice Stevens, becausethat was the premise of the --QUESTION: That is the way it's always beendone. There hasn't been any copyright extension thathasn't applied to subsisting work.GENERAL OLSON: That's --QUESTION: But there was one -- Justice Breyerbrought up Ben Jonson, so -- this case doesn't involveworks that are already in the public domain.GENERAL OLSON: That is correct.QUESTION: This is subsisting copyrights.GENERAL OLSON: That is correct.QUESTION: So --QUESTION: But why wouldn't it?QUESTION: Why? Why not?QUESTION: Why wouldn't it? If the equity th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC argument under the Necessary and Proper Clause justifiesextension of the copyright for those whose copyright willexpire tomorrow if it's not extended, in order to put themon parity with those getting copyrights for new works, whydoesn't it apply to the copyright, the holder of thecopyright that expired yesterday?GENERAL OLSON: You could arguably -- you couldconceivably make that argument, Justice Souter, but thereis a bright line there. Something that has already goneinto the public domain, which other individuals orcompanies or entities may then have acquired an interestin, or rights to, or be involved in disseminating --QUESTION: And if you don't --GENERAL OLSON: This is a rational --QUESTION: If you don't draw the line there,then Ben Jonson certainly gets recopyrighted.QUESTION: Well, the difficulty --QUESTION: If we're just looking for a brightline, the line that they suggest between unexpired patentsand copyrights and brand new ones is also just as bright.GENERAL OLSON: Oh, I concede that it's a brightline, but it's a bright line that would have --QUESTION: Except Congress chose this one anddidn't choose the other one. That's --GENERAL OLSON: Congress -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: Basically you're saying thepresumption ought to be in the congressional judgmentabout how to draw the line as well as in how long a lineto draw.GENERAL OLSON: I agree, and this Court has --we're not just talking about the judgment of the Congressof the -- the th Congress in . This is the way theStatute of Anne was written. This is the way the Statecopyright laws were written when this country became aNation. This is the way the copyright statute, thenumber of --QUESTION: Well, of course, the original statutewas replacing a bunch of State statutes or State rules,partly common law, partly statutory, that -- they had kindof a mixed up legal situation, and there was an interestin having one uniform rule for the first time around.GENERAL OLSON: Well, there was an interest inhaving a uniform rule, and that's precisely why theFramers created the Copyright Clause in the Constitution,but there was copyright protection in some States, therewasn't copyright protection in other States, and what weknow from the decision of this Court in the Wheatondecision is that there was not a common law copyright inexistence. This Court explicitly held that.Now, the petitioners make this quid pro quo th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC argument that somehow implicitly the initial copyright statute was saying to people, you get acopyright if you exchange whatever existing rights youhave. That simply does not make any sense. There is nolanguage, and it's a relatively late-discovered argument,because it sees its full --QUESTION: I want you to finish that, but I wantyou to go back to the -- I have one question on the equityprinciple. Are you -- I want you to finish. GENERAL OLSON: I wasn't finished, but I'm happyto come back.QUESTION: Go ahead. No, no, you finish first.GENERAL OLSON: Well, I was going to say there'sno language whatsoever of preemption, abandonment,abrogation, or exchange in the copyright, butcompare -- Copyright Act. But compare that to the Patent Act under the same clause, where there is thatexchange there.The other thing, as this Court has said, thereis no implied abrogation of common law rights which wouldbe a doctrine which would be inconsistent with what thepetitioner is arguing. Now --QUESTION: Why -- I mean, I think you have apoint on this equity principle. I wonder, is there anyreview there? That is, suppose you have a statute, as th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC this one arguably is, where . percent, many billions ofdollars of benefits, are going to the existing holders ofcopyright on grounds of equity, and the effect of thestatute in eliciting new works is near zero. I mean, thatwould seem -- where this equity idea is the camel and theproduction idea is the gnat, and is there any -- can wesay something like that, or does Congress have totalleeway in respect to --GENERAL OLSON: Well, it --QUESTION: -- who they want to give the moneyto, basically?GENERAL OLSON: Justice Breyer, it's conceivablethat the Court might do that if that situation waspresent, but it's not remotely the situation here. Wehave the adoption of copyright terms which are consistent,generally speaking, with copyright terms which exist inthe European Union, our principal competitor, and inconnection with international treaties.We have a copyright term that's consistent withthe concept of the creator plus the creator's firstgeneration heirs. We have a copyright term, remember,which supersedes the earlier copyright provisions thatwere added to the period between creation and publication,so that the limited number of years in the first, the and the statute were the number of years plus the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC relatively unlimited period of time between creation andpublication, so we don't have anything remotely like thatin this situation.We have a process which, as you suggested, orone of the questions suggested, is -- may not have beenthe policy that you as a Member of Congress would havesupported. You might have made the balance, that delicatebalance that this Court has referred to, in another way,but that is something that Congress, through its abilityto gather facts and make balances, is quintessentiallycapable of doing, and that is where the Framers vested the responsibility, and what this statute does is tofavor, if at all, the creator with respect to theutilization of these rights, as opposed to the person whowishes to copy the creator. That's an entirely rationaldistinction for Congress to make.Thank you.QUESTION: Thank you, General Olson.Mr. Lessig, you have minutes remaining.REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF LAWRENCE LESSIGON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERSMR. LESSIG: General Olson has been perfectlyclear in setting out the structure of the Government'sargument. It is that there is no effective limit onCongress's power under the Copyright Clause. Now, were th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC this the first time this Court had considered Congress'scopyright authority, that might be a plausible argument,but the very first time this Court ever struck down a lawof Congress as exceeding Article I, section power was inthe context of the Copyright Clause.We have years of history of this Courtmaking sure that the limits, both express and implied, inthe Copyright Clause, have some meaning. The Feistopinion very clearly sets out the implied limits, a per selimit for originality, for the reasons Justice Breyer wastrying to get me to say. The Harper as well as Graham setout very clear limits on the context of the ability toextend works in the public domain. Those limits make nosense under the reasoning the Government has offered. TheGovernment's reasoning would make all of those opinionsirrelevant and wrong.Now, we offer a simple way to make this clear,express limit make sense, and that is precisely theunderstanding we suggest that existed in . The onlyprecedents that existed in were precedents ofsetting a term, and then when parliament was asked in, ', and ' to extend it, they rejected it, and asamicus historians said, they rejected it because, as apamphleteer described it, that would be effectively aperpetual term. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Now, this delicate balance that the Governmentinvokes, Justice Breyer, let me give you the numbers. Thedelicate balance is that, under the most reasonableassumptions of copyright royalty income and under ourinterest rate of percent, as the amicus economists noteat page , note of their brief, the current term givesauthors . percent of the value of a perpetual term.Now, that might be a delicate balance, that theygive the author . percent and the public . percent,but in my mind, that's delicate in a very different senseof that term.Thank you very much.CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: Thank you, Mr. Lessig.The case is submitted.(Whereupon, at : a.m., the case in theabove-entitled matter was submitted.) th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC 