 IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XBEATRICE BRANCH, ET AL., Appellants, ::v. : No. -JOHN ROBERT SMITH, ET AL.; and JOHN ROBERT SMITH, ET AL.; Cross-Appellants, ::::v. : No. -BEATRICE BRANCH, ET AL. :- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XWashington, D.C.Tuesday, December , The above-entitled matter came on for oral argument before the Supreme Court of the United States at: a.m.APPEARANCES:ROBERT B. McDUFF, ESQ., Jackson, Mississippi; on behalfof Appellants/Cross-Appellees Branch, et al.JAMES A. FELDMAN, ESQ., Assistant to the SolicitorGeneral, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; onbehalf of the United States, as amicus curiae.MICHAEL B. WALLACE, ESQ., Jackson, Mississippi; on behalfof Appellees/Cross-Appellants Smith, et al. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC C O N T E N T SORAL ARGUMENT OF ROBERT B. McDUFF, ESQ.On behalf of Appellants/Cross-Appellees Branch, et al. JAMES A. FELDMAN, ESQ.On behalf of the United States, as amicus curiae MICHAEL B. WALLACE, ESQ.On behalf of Appellees/Cross-Appellants Smith, et al. REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OFROBERT B. McDUFF, ESQ.On behalf of Appellants/Cross-Appellees Branch, et al. PAGE th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC P R O C E E D I N G S(: a.m.)JUSTICE STEVENS: The Court will hear argumentin Number -, Branch against Smith, and the cross-appeal of Smith against Branch. Mr. McDuff, you may proceed.ORAL ARGUMENT OF ROBERT B. McDUFFON BEHALF OF APPELLANTS/CROSS-APPELLEES BRANCH, ET AL.MR. McDUFF: Justice Stevens, may it please theCourt:For years, ever since the decision inBaker versus Carr, State court judges, like Federaljudges, have played a role in addressing constitutionalproblems stemming from malapportionment. This wasreflected in Scott versus Germano in , and again in Growe versus Emison in when the Court said not onlythat State judges play a role, but they are preferred toFederal judges as agents of reapportionment. In this congressional redistricting case fromMississippi, the Chancery Court of Hinds County, actingwith the blessing of the Mississippi Supreme Court,stepped into the breach and adopted a plan when thelegislature defaulted. That plan has been enjoined by theFederal district court, and the United States Departmentof Justice has said not once, but twice that it was th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC postponing the statutory time period for preclearanceunder section of the Voting Rights Act so that even now,nearly year after the plan was adopted and submitted, nopreclearance decision has been made. A Federal courtorder is in place telling State courts they may not hearcongressional redistricting cases. QUESTION: Now, did -- did Mississippi appealfrom the injunction?MR. McDUFF: They did not, Your Honor, but wedid. And we were allowed to intervene in this case todefend the State court judgment, which my clients had aright to seek, and which they did secure redistricting theState of Mississippi. QUESTION: But -- but the issue is whether theState was still pursuing the -- the redistricting that was the subject of the application to the Attorney General,and whether it was doing so or not depended upon whetherthe State was appealing from the Federal injunction. If the State accepted the Federal injunction, it no longerwas pursuing the -- the reapportionment.MR. McDUFF: I don't -- I don't know -- Irespectfully disagree, Justice Scalia. This is a Statecourt order, and the Attorney General of Mississippi hasno right to refuse it or not, and he certainly has noright to undo it. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: Well, and he also has no right toignore a Federal injunction --MR. McDUFF: That's correct. QUESTION: -- unless he -- unless he appeals it. He has every right to appeal it. He represents the State,and he chose not to appeal it.MR. McDUFF: That's correct, but -- but unlikethe situation -- but we -- I guess my first answer is, wedid appeal it, and so the injunction is --QUESTION: But you're not the State.MR. McDUFF: -- is subject to being overruled. QUESTION: The problem with that is that you'renot the State. MR. McDUFF: That's correct. But unlike asituation where, for example, an injunction is issued against a criminal law, or regulatory provision that theAttorney General, or the State defendants have somediscretionary authority to enforce, and where it makessense that if they do not want to appeal, no one elseshould be allowed to appeal if they're not -- if theydon't care enough about enforcement, this is an order thatthe Attorney General, and the State defendants arerequired to obey, assuming Federal obstacles areeliminated.Now, if the Attorney General doesn't appeal for th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC whatever reason, it makes sense to allow the people whosecured the judgment in State court to intervene anddefend that. Otherwise --QUESTION: Why does it make sense under astatute in which the action of the State is by -- bydefinition crucial? MR. McDUFF: Because the action of the -- theaction of the State here is the action of the Statecourts, and they have issued an injunction. The AttorneyGeneral cannot undo that.QUESTION: But if we're talking about section ,the language of section is whenever a State shall enactor seek to administer any voting qualification, et cetera. And because the State is not currently seeking toadminister anything, enact, I take it means legislation. Seek to administer could be the executive, but theexecutive, since it's not appealing the injunction, isn'tcurrently seeking to administer anything. MR. McDUFF: I think -- I think the executive isseeking to administer it just as much as he was back whenthe plan was first submitted. If the Federal obstaclesare removed -- the constitutional injunction, and thepreclearance obstacle -- the State defendants are going toabide by the order of the chancery court, and submit thisplan -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: But we would -- we would not requirethe -- the State or the -- the Federal courts to do avain -- or the Attorney -- the Federal Attorney General toperform a vain act. What use would it be for him toapprove the reapportionment when the State AttorneyGeneral is still subject to a Federal court injunctionwhich he has not appealed and therefore cannot ignore? What possible good would it be for the Attorney Generalto -- to approve the -- the apportionment?MR. McDUFF: To remove the section obstacle asquickly as possible, consistent with the -day deadlinein the statute, so that once the constitutional obstacleis removed, the plan can be in force.QUESTION: But the constitutional obstacle won'tbe removed as long as the Attorney General doesn't --doesn't appeal the Federal court injunction.MR. McDUFF: Well, that -- that is assumingthat -- that my clients don't have standing, and I thinkwe clearly do as parties who secured the State courtjudgment. Otherwise, you would be in a situation wherethe Attorney General could unilaterally nullify the Statecourt injunction simply by not defending it. That's onereason my clients were allowed in this case, was to defendthe State court injunction they secured.QUESTION: Mr. McDuff, can I ask you what is the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC status of the State court litigation? Is there an appealpending there? MR. McDUFF: There is an appeal pending filed bythe State court intervenors challenging the chancerycourt's plan. QUESTION: And how do you explain the failure ofthe Mississippi Supreme Court to rule on that appeal?MR. McDUFF: That -- the briefs have been filed. No oral argument is scheduled. I think -- I -- I don'tknow, but I think the Mississippi Supreme Court is waitingto hear from this Court what it should do because it islooking at a Federal court order telling it it has nobusiness in congressional redistricting. And the --the --QUESTION: Well, excuse me. Is our decisiongoing to affect that Federal court order? MR. McDUFF: I'm sorry? QUESTION: Is our decision going to affect thatFederal court order? MR. McDUFF: Well, we -- we are certainly askingthis Court to -- to vacate the Federal court order. And --QUESTION: It's a -- that's the problem I havetrying to figure this out. Suppose -- suppose we lookedat the preclearance, and suppose I thought that it hasn't th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC been precleared and it should have been. And the reasonit hasn't been precleared is the reason that's beendiscussed, that -- that they haven't tried to administerit yet and when -- and they -- and the Department has days from the time that the State tries to administerit. I mean, I thought that's what the statute says,doesn't it, that they have --MR. McDUFF: It says days after it'ssubmitted, it's --QUESTION: Yes, enacts or seeks to administer. MR. McDUFF: That is correct. QUESTION: They have to enact, and this doesn'tsound like an enactment. It sounds like something -- seekto administer, and they haven't sought to administer it.All right. So then we'd send it back. Then the Department would have to decide whetherto preclear it. Well, they may well preclear it. Or whathappens next? That's where I'm a little confused.I mean, it -- the -- the real constitutionalissue here -- or one of them anyway -- is assuming thereis the preclearance, then has the Mississippi court actedunconstitutionally in assuming authority to issue a plan,whereas previously, the Mississippi court had said youlack -- we lack that authority. And all of a sudden, wehave an order here which seems to overrule in earlier th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC cases, and it doesn't even have an opinion. In other words, can you help clarify what weshould say in this case on the assumption that we ended upthinking it should be precleared?MR. McDUFF: I think -- I think there are twothings we want you to say. First is that the Federalcourt's constitutional basis for the injunction is wrong,and that Mississippi courts, like courts -- like courtsthroughout the country, do have a right to adjudicatecongressional redistricting cases, at least where thelegislature defaults. And then, second, we are asking you to rule thatas a result of the passage of the -day period, the planhas been precleared. If you agree with us on the first issue, disagree on the second, then the -- then the matter willbe remanded to the district court and the preclearanceprocess --QUESTION: But Mr. McDuff, the --MR. McDUFF: -- will go forward in the JusticeDepartment. QUESTION: Mr. McDuff, on your first point,which you would like us to decide first, I thought thedistrict court expressly made that a contingent ruling. Didn't it say if we're wrong on that this plan hasn't been th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC precleared, if we're wrong, then we have this alternateconstitutional point. They phrased it that way as if tosay, we would like the court to understand that ourprinciple ruling is that this plan hasn't been precleared.MR. McDUFF: That's correct. QUESTION: But if we're reversed on that, thenwe have something else we want the court to know about. So, it seems to me that it was a highly conditionalruling, the kind of ruling, let's say, that a -- that atrial court would make under rule , when itconditionally rules on a new trial motion.MR. McDUFF: I don't know if it was aconditional ruling, Justice Ginsburg. It was analternative ruling, and we are appealing both grounds. And I think it makes perfect sense to deal with them both in one appeal rather than --QUESTION: Why? It makes perfect sense to reachthe constitutional issue when there's no need to do so? I mean, if -- if we agree -- if -- if we disagree with youon the second point, there's no need for us to -- to ruleon -- on the first point. Is there? MR. McDUFF: Well --QUESTION: By the same token --QUESTION: Whether -- whether or not the -- theFederal district court used it as a makeweight, there's th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC just no need for us to reach it. QUESTION: Well, there are two questions I had.First of all, was it proper for the districtcourt to decide a constitutional issue which was totallyunnecessary to support its judgment? MR. McDUFF: The -- I -- I think it was, andI do think it is necessary to reach that issue becauseotherwise, we're going to go -- if -- however you ruleon the section issue, the case goes back down. Hopefully the plan is either declared precleared by thisCourt or later precleared by the Attorney General. The --the district court is simply going to reinstate thatconstitutional ruling. This case will come back up hereon appeal, and we'll be into the election cycle.QUESTION: All right. That's -- that's true, but look, there's a case, Wise v. Lipscomb --MR. McDUFF: Yes, sir. QUESTION: -- which you've seen, and in thatcase, this Court says, in those circumstances -- which arethese -- until clearance has been obtained, a court shouldnot address the constitutionality of the new measure. So,we said specifically, don't address it. Now, what -- what are we supposed to do aboutthat?MR. McDUFF: That -- that's correct, Your Honor, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC but the cases from which that statement emanates, and theonly cases in which this Court has been called upon toapply that principle are Connor versus Waller, andUnited States versus Board of Supervisors of WarrenCounty, which we discuss at the beginning of our replybrief. But those are cases that are very differentfrom this one. In those cases, the Federal districtcourts substituted constitutional analysis for thepreclearance process and -- and ordered the use of un­precleared plans.Here the Federal district court enjoined the useof a -- an allegedly un-precleared plan and gave analternative ruling the same way courts do -- the -- in thesame fashion that courts do all the time. And in thesecircumstances, I think it makes sense to go ahead and deal with both issues on the appeal so we don't have this casebouncing up and down the appellate ladder while, numberone, the Mississippi Supreme Court is trying to figure outwhat to do, and number two, we've got a March , deadline approaching.QUESTION: Is there any chance thelegislature -- which is its job, I take it -- will, infact, enact a plan during that period of time? MR. McDUFF: I -- there's certainly noindication that the legislature will, Your Honor. And -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC and that's why it is important for -- as -- as the Courtsaid in Growe v. Emison, for State courts to be able tostep into the breach, and deal with the problem withoutthe sort of obstacles that the Federal court has imposedhere, first on the constitutional grounds, and thensecond, on the section grounds because we contend theplan has been precleared.And let me respond to one other thing --QUESTION: So I -- I take it --MR. McDUFF: I'm sorry.QUESTION: -- the State court would have to makethe same constitutional determination, or the State courtisn't free from making constitutional determinations. MR. McDUFF: That -- that's right. The --QUESTION: In fact, just the opposite. Ithas to.MR. McDUFF: That's right. But if this Courtresolves the issue on the -- in -- in reviewing theFederal district court's injunction, then the State courtwill not be in the position of having to do that.And the -- the -- I want to go back to thequestion of seeks to administer because I think it isvery clear that the Mississippi court -- the Mississippicourts adopted a plan to be used in elections as longas the section obstacle is used -- is removed, and any th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC other Federal constitutional obstacles are removed.And as -- as the opinion says -- JusticeO'Connor said in the opinion for the Court in Lopez versusMonterey County -- the second Lopez decision -- seeks toadminister is simply -- it -- it's not necessarily a termof discretion. You can either seek to administer or not,but is a -- it is a -- the seek is a temporal phraseshowing that the -- the plan should be submitted prior toits administration.And here, the Attorney General doesn't have anydiscretionary authority, and I think it would be contraryto section if he were able to undo the chancery court'sorder simply by the fact that he didn't appeal this casewhen he knew we were appealing. The -- in fact, there's -- we've referred frequently to the North Carolina preclearance of the planadopted there by a State court regarding legislativedistricts. And if you look in the appendix to the NAACPamicus brief, there is the letter of submission sent bythe trial judge in North Carolina to the JusticeDepartment where he submitted the plan. The AttorneyGeneral didn't submit it. In fact, the Attorney Generalhad opposed imposition of the State court plan during theState court proceedings. That plan was precleared, and it certainly seems th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC to me that if the Justice Department can preclear a plansubmitted by a State court judge, it cannot come here inthis case, and say that a State court judge -- a Statecourt plan from a Mississippi judge is -- has beenwithdrawn, or has been suspended simply by the simple actof -- simply by the simple fact that the Attorney Generaldid not take an appeal in this case. That was taken byus.QUESTION: But that was -- that was never anissue in -- in the North Carolina case, was it? MR. McDUFF: I'm sorry? QUESTION: That was never an issue in the NorthCarolina case.MR. McDUFF: Oh, no, there was not an issue, butI'm just pointing out that -- I mean -- I mean --QUESTION: Maybe -- maybe Justice shouldn't havetaken the -- the request. MR. McDUFF: The -- the -- oh, I think Justiceshould -- Justice definitely should consider a submissionfrom a State court judge. Section -- section says --QUESTION: Sure. But you were making theargument a moment ago that if, in fact, they took therequest from the State court judge in North Carolina, theycan hardly object here. MR. McDUFF: That's correct. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: And that's a different kind ofargument. And -- and since that was not an issue, I --I don't know that they are precluded, or would beprecluded from changing their mind now. MR. McDUFF: Oh, all I'm -- all I'm saying,Justice Souter, is I don't think they can come in here andsay that the fact that the Attorney General did not appealhere --saying. QUESTION: No, that's -- that's not what they'reMR. McDUFF: -- means that the submission waswithdrawn or suspended.QUESTION: They -- what they did not -- whatthey did not object to is the fact that it was not theAttorney General who had to submit the request here. That's all. I mean, in -- in the North Carolina case,they were not violating any provision of the statute whichrequired, before it could be precleared, that the State beabout to administer it. The statute doesn't say that theperson, or the -- the entity of the State that is seekingto administer it must be the one who applies forclearance. That's not what the statute says. So, allthat was at issue in North Carolina is whether the -- theadministering person has to be the one to seek clearance. And at most, the case stands for no answer to th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC that question. It certainly doesn't answer the questionof whether, when the State has no intention ofadministering it, which is the situation here, and was notthe situation in North Carolina, the -- the AttorneyGeneral, nonetheless, has to reply. MR. McDUFF: Justice Scalia, I respectfullydisagree with the premise that the State in Mississippihas no intention of administering this plan. Once theconstitutional obstacle is removed, if it is, and oncepreclearance is declared, if it is, the State defendantsare going to administer their plan -- that plan. They areunder a State court order to do so. And it seems to me tosay that the Mississippi situation is somehow differentfrom the North Carolina situation is to -- is to exalt theform over the substance. Certainly in Mississippi the State court judgecould have submitted that plan. The State court judge,I guess, could have intervened in the case, in the Federalcase, and appealed if the Attorney General didn't. Butthat would be quite unusual, instead --QUESTION: Could he have administered the plan? That's --MR. McDUFF: I'm sorry? QUESTION: That's the crucial question. Yes, hecould do all that, but could he have administered the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC plan? If not, his intention to go forward is noindication that the State is -- is seeking to administerthe plan. MR. McDUFF: But -- but, Justice Scalia, the --the failure of the Attorney General to take an appeal isno indication that he will not administer the plan oncethe Federal obstacles are removed. I think we have toassume that he will obey the State court order.QUESTION: But does it remove the Federalobstacle if -- instead of passing on the hypothetical ofwhether the Federal ground, which is a alternative ground,et cetera is good or bad -- if we just repeated thelanguage from Wise versus Lipscomb, said it's premature todecide this constitutional issue, our cases say not to,but there's an alternative ground here? That would makeit clear to everybody, wouldn't it, that the ground onwhich the Federal injunction rests is the preclearanceground? And then, would the State say, okay, if it's thepreclearance ground, we're going to administer it. Andthen, the days would begin to run, and then you're outfrom under this strange stalemate. MR. McDUFF: The -- the days, in our view,Justice Breyer, has already run.QUESTION: I know that, but if I don't agreewith you about that, then would it satisfy what you're th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC really after which is to get out of the stalemate? Yousee, we would just simply point out that this is analternative ground and -- and it has no real -- we're notreaching it because it's -- there's this other ground. In other words, I'm repeating what I've said.MR. McDUFF: Then I -- I think -- I think --QUESTION: I'm trying to get you out of thestalemate. I'm trying --MR. McDUFF: I -- I think that gets us exactlynowhere because the Department has said it is not going toresume the preclearance process as long as theconstitutional injunction is in place. So unless it'svacated, the preclearance process --QUESTION: Are there two injunctions? I thoughtthere was just one injunction and --MR. McDUFF: I'm sorry. There's one injunction. Two grounds. QUESTION: -- two grounds. So if we suggestthat one of the grounds was premature, then doesn't thatdo the trick? MR. McDUFF: Well, I think it does -- it doesget the process ticking again. But the problem is at thatpoint, once it is declared precleared, the Federaldistrict court will impose its constitutional injunction,we'll be back up here. The Mississippi Supreme Court will th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC still be facing that injunction.QUESTION: Meanwhile, the legislature will act.MR. McDUFF: Well, that's -- that's wishfulthinking. And it --(Laughter.) MR. McDUFF: If it were true, we wouldn't behere I think. QUESTION: Is there any clue, by the way, why inall this time --MR. McDUFF: I'm sorry? QUESTION: Is there any clue why, in all thistime, the legislature has not acted? MR. McDUFF: No. I think it was the difficultyof pairing two incumbents, and they couldn't agree. Theycouldn't agree on how to do it because we lost a seat in Mississippi.Let me make one --QUESTION: They -- they won't have that problemnow, will they? MR. McDUFF: No, they won't have that problemnow. QUESTION: So --MR. McDUFF: But I still think there's --there's been no indication thus far that any action isgoing to be taken in that respect. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC I reserve the remainder of my time for rebuttal.QUESTION: Mr. Feldman. ORAL ARGUMENT OF JAMES A. FELDMANON BEHALF OF THE UNITED STATES,AS AMICUS CURIAEMR. FELDMAN: Justice Stevens, and may it pleasethe Court:It's our position that the State courtredistricting plan was not precleared on either of the twooccasions that appellants --QUESTION: Mr. Feldman, let's assume that weagree with everything you say in your brief, and we agreeit's not been precleared. Isn't the -- will theinjunction that's now in place prevent furtherpreclearance? One of the reasons for not preclearing before was there's this injunction standing --MR. FELDMAN: It's --QUESTION: -- and that's still an obstacle,isn't it?MR. FELDMAN: If it's clear that this injunctionis -- rests only on section grounds, and notconstitutional grounds, that certainly would --QUESTION: The only way to make that clear wouldbe to vacate the --MR. FELDMAN: Well -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: -- the other ground. Is that right? MR. FELDMAN: The -- what the injunctionactually says is something like the injunction will lastuntil, and unless there is a constitutional plan that'sprecleared. And insofar as it uses the wordconstitutional, and we know the views of the districtcourt about that, I think that as long as that -- thatword, constitutional, is there, that -- that that remainsan obstacle to administering the plan.QUESTION: So unless that injunction is vacated,we're at a stalemate.MR. FELDMAN: At least that part -- at least theinjunction has to be modified to remove the wordconstitutional. QUESTION: Well, but that's -- that's dictum. I mean, what the district court said about that is -- isdictum. itself.QUESTION: No, it's part of the injunctionQUESTION: It isn't --MR. FELDMAN: It --QUESTION: It says until a constitutional planis -- is precleared, but what is a constitutional plan wasnot before the court. Now you may well know how thedistrict court is going -- going to rule on it, but you th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC don't know that the district court will be affirmed inthat ruling, or -- I don't -- I don't see how the -- theconstitutional ruling is embodied in the injunction.MR. FELDMAN: If the Court made clear, I think,that -- that the -- that this injunction couldn't rest onthe ground that Article I, section of the Constitutionwas violated by the -- by the State court plan, then Ithink it would be ripe for a preclearance. QUESTION: Wouldn't -- wouldn't it also beripe -- wouldn't the time run simply if -- if the Statemoved to vacate the injunction? MR. FELDMAN: Yes. If a State moved to vacatethe Federal court injunction?QUESTION: Yes. MR. FELDMAN: In the --QUESTION: Because at that point wouldn't ithave signified that it was, indeed, attempting toadminister the plan? MR. FELDMAN: There -- well, there's really twogrounds on which we think the injunction is -- isrelevant. There's a narrower ground, which I think it --primarily the -- the argument so far has been concernedwith, which is that the State was no longer seeking toenforce the plan because it didn't appeal it. And that --QUESTION: If it now seeks to vacate -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. FELDMAN: -- if the State took action,they're still not appealing it, but I suppose, after thisCourt's order, if they went back to the district court,and said, in light of this Court's order, we're trying toseek to enforce it again, and if they had the ability todo that, then that -- then that would be eliminated.QUESTION: Yes. MR. FELDMAN: There is a broader ground,however, because the -- insofar as the injunction is ainjunction that's based -- rests on constitutionalgrounds, it's the Department's position that -- that thepreclearance -- the section uses the terms seek to --seek to administer. It says it may be enforced once theAttorney General acts, and it talks about voting changesthat are in force and effect. And all of those things point to a contemplation by the statute of a change goingto the Attorney General when it's ready to be -- ready --ready to go into effect, when there's no present legalobstacle. As long as there's a present legal obstacleother than a section injunction to its currentadministration, then the Attorney General -- it's tooearly -- it's too early to go to the Attorney General.QUESTION: Okay. Then that goes back, I guess,to the earlier suggestion. If -- if this Court indicatedthat, in fact, the alternative ground was prematurely th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC raised, wouldn't that respond to the -- to the second --MR. FELDMAN: I think -- as I said, I think it'sclear that if the -- if the Court made clear that this --this injunction rests on section and doesn't rest on theproposition that it violates Article I, section forthe -- for the plan to go into effect, then it would beripe for a preclearance at that point. QUESTION: Of course, we have a doctrine that wedon't decide constitutional issues unless we have to. Doyou think that doctrine should have applied to thedistrict court in this case because the section ground,as I read the opinion, was -- was self -- was sufficientto sustain the objections? MR. FELDMAN: I think -- I do think the section ground was sufficient to sustain it.QUESTION: And therefore it was really wrong forthe district court to reach out and unnecessarily decide aconstitutional question. MR. FELDMAN: I -- you certainly -- the -- theonly reason I would hesitate for that, before I'd quite gothat far, is district court was faced -- if you putyourself in the situation that the court was, with verytight deadlines -- and there are -- even -- althoughcourts should avoid deciding constitutional questions whenpossible, there may be some extreme circumstances where -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: But those deadlines -- you'vedemonstrated in your brief that the -- the clearancehadn't occurred. I mean, if -- if we agree with yourposition on the preclearance, the deadlines were not areal obstacle.MR. FELDMAN: I -- I agree. And actually I --I do think the district court certainly could have saidand -- and perhaps should have said, this is aconstitutional issue. Especially, it's a novelconstitutional issue that raises novel questions thathaven't been addressed before, and the section groundwas sufficient to sustain the injunction.QUESTION: But the district court -- didn't --isn't that what the district court said when it said thisis our alternative holding in the event that on appeal, it is determined that we erred in our February ruling? It seems to me that that's a contingent ruling. If we'reright about that it hasn't been precleared, then thisdoesn't come into play. MR. FELDMAN: I -- I guess only insofar as whenyou read the actual order of the court, it says a --this -- this shall go into -- the State may not enforcethe State court plan until the State -- there's aconstitutional plan that's precleared. And if you readthat word -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: But one -- one could agree with thecourt, what it was intending to do and give effect to whatit was intending to do, and if we should hold, if weshould agree with the court, that there's no preclearedplan, then it would be appropriate to vacate the decisionto the extent that it rests on the constitutional ground. MR. FELDMAN: I -- I think that may -- that maywell be right. I -- I don't disagree with that. I'd like to go to, actually the first -- thefirst alleged preclearance which is supposed to haveoccurred days after the plan was initially submitted tothe district court, and that preclearance did not occur --was initially submitted to the Attorney General. Excuseme. That preclearance did not occur because onFebruary th, before the -day period had expired, the Attorney General sent the State a letter saying, I needmore information before I can preclear this plan. Thatprocedure, under which the Attorney General did that, wasspecifically held valid by this Court in Georgia againstthe United States, and the Court in Georgia specificallyheld that that stopped the -day clock from running.Later, in Morris against Gressette, the Courtheld that the Attorney General's substantivedeterminations under section are not subject to -- arenot subject to judicial review at all. And therefore, the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Attorney General's determination that more information isneeded, that the information before him was not sufficientto permit preclearance -- to permit him to make thedeterminations he had to make -- also is not subject tojudicial review. And therefore, because that whole process was --was approved by the Court in Georgia against the UnitedStates, because more information was sought, that thatterminated the -day clock then, and it did not -- theplan was not precleared some days later when -- when the-day period would have expired. I think for the reasons I said earlier, it alsowas not precleared at the later period both because theState didn't -- on the narrower ground that the State didnot appeal the injunction, and on the broader ground that the injunction was there. And the section process isdesigned so that something that's ready to go -- theAttorney General should reach his decision on an actthat's ready to take effect. Finally, I'd like to just briefly go to thestatutory question of the interaction of sections cand a(c). With respect to that question, it's ourposition that the district court, as a remedy here,correctly ordered the districting of Mississippi'scongressional delegation, and did not order that they be th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC elected at-large. And that was required by Federal law,specifically by U.S.C., section c, which provides thatthere shall be established by law single-member districtsin each State, and that Representatives shall be electedonly from districts so established. That command, itseems to us, is unequivocal, and required the districtcourt, when it was faced with the problem of what to doabout Mississippi, to create single-member districts. It would -- did not have the power --QUESTION: But you could -- you could view it,I guess, if you had to look at it at all -- and I'm notsure we do -- you could say that a(c) applies before aplan has been redistricted in the manner provided by Statelaw, and that c applies afterwards. I mean, you couldharmonize them.They've been in -- in existence, these twoprovisions, for a very long time, and we normally don'tsee repealed by implication, or hold that there is such athing --MR. FELDMAN: I --QUESTION: -- that you can harmonize them. MR. FELDMAN: I think generally, but I do notthink in general these can be harmonized, or at leastwithin the scope of where it's possible for c to -- tooperate. For -- one reason is that the language, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Representatives shall be elected only from districts soestablished, is unequivocal, and, in fact, it shows thatthe earlier portion of c that says, there shall beestablished by law congressional districts in each State,has to mean established either by a court, or by alegislature, or by anyone who acts. QUESTION: What if it meant just by a court? It would really put a lot of pressure on the legislaturesto -- to do what they're supposed to, and to enact thesedistricts by law. It would take a lot of -- a lot ofthese cases that -- that place the burden upon thedistrict judge to reapportion a whole State would go away. He'd say, if the legislature doesn't ask, all of you guysare going to run at large. Boy, that would -- you know --(Laughter.) QUESTION: That would not happen. Thelegislature would, indeed, do the job it's supposed to. QUESTION: Isn't that --QUESTION: It -- it would make a lot of sense tointerpret it that way. QUESTION: Isn't that Mississippi's own defaultrule? Doesn't Mississippi have that same statute?MR. FELDMAN: They do have the same statute,which we would view as pre-empted by section c. But thatwas the -- the scheme that was in effect in -- from th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC to .The reason why c was enacted, and the way togive c some effect is that Congress at that time wasfaced with a situation where there were at least sixcourts that had threatened to order at-large election ofentire congressional delegations in the aftermath of Bakeragainst Carr. And Congress responded to that. Theconcern specifically was that courts would orderat-large elections, and the response was the enactment ofsection c. QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. Feldman.Mr. Wallace.ORAL ARGUMENT OF MICHAEL B. WALLACEON BEHALF OF APPELLEES/CROSS-APPELLANTS SMITH, ET AL.MR. WALLACE: Justice Stevens, and may it please the Court:It seems that the Court is focusing on thequestion of preclearance here, and the real problem withthe question of preclearance is that the JusticeDepartment has stopped the preclearance process because ofthe injunction. Now, we believe that the Justice Departmentacted properly in so doing. They have a regulation thatsays, we will not consider premature submissions, and thisCourt said in Georgia that any reasonable regulation will th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC be enforced. Their position is that whenever the State hasbeen told it cannot administer a change, then it cannot beseeking to administer a change within the meaning ofsection , and therefore, this was premature. So theystopped. Now, the question is what can be done aboutthat, and I think, in all probability, the only thing thatcan be done about that is for the Attorney General ofMississippi to go down the street to the district courtand ask them to preclear the change under section because there does not seem to be any other mechanismwhereby anybody can force the Justice Department to getmoving on a section preclearance. QUESTION: But, Mr. Wallace, don't you agree that with the injunction outstanding, the JusticeDepartment would have the same reason for refusing topreclear that it's already given?MR. WALLACE: I think not, Your Honor, and Ithink that's because of the very strange system of dividedjurisdiction that Congress consciously created back in when it said, we will let the District of Columbiadeal with statutory questions. We will let the court backhome deal with constitutional questions. That's been inthe act from day one, and it's given this Court trouble th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC from day one. QUESTION: How long does it take if you takethe -- if you said derail the preclearance procedurebefore the Attorney General, switch to the D.C. DistrictCourt track? How long do those proceedings -- section proceedings -- in the district court ordinarily take?MR. WALLACE: I've never been in one, YourHonor. I don't know that I could tell you, but I wouldthink it would take close to a year anyway. Now --QUESTION: Well, then why can't we just do whatwe'd -- I'd suggested anyway -- I think others did too --that -- that you -- you -- we'd simply say, look, here'san injunction. It rests on two grounds. Ground one, thisplan hasn't been precleared, the Mississippi plan, thecourt plan. Ground two, it's unconstitutional. You'd sayground two is, A, premature, doesn't really support theissue, it's an injunction -- because it's premature, etcetera. And now you'd have a decision that, I guess, froma legal point of view insofar as we were right about that,would just rest on the ground that it hasn't beenprecleared. And since that's the only reason for issuing theinjunction, then the Department, if the State ofMississippi wants to put the plan in effect, wouldpreclear it. If the State doesn't want to put it in th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC effect, well, that's their business. But -- but if theyare going to put it in effect, then the Department wouldhave to get busy.MR. WALLACE: As a practical matter, JusticeBreyer, that might get the process moving, because I thinkI've understood the United States to indicate that theywould get moving if that's what the Court did. But underthe usual rules of this Court's jurisdiction, it sits toreview judgments and not opinions. And the judgment isthat -- that the -- that the district court plan shallstay into effect -- shall stay in effect untilpreclearance of a constitutional plan takes effect. That's true --QUESTION: Yes, but in affirming that, wecertainly can say why we're affirming it. And -- and ifwe say, yes, the injunction is valid for one reason, andone reason only, we do not reach the other -- the otherreason, and there is no basis for reaching the otherreason. Certainly we can say that.MR. WALLACE: And if -- and if the Court doessay that, and if the Justice Department does get moving asa result of that opinion, then that will move the processalong.QUESTION: So we're in an unusual -- I mean,this is unusual because I guess we would be reviewing a th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC reason for the judgment. It's unusual because there's alegislature that doesn't want to reapportion. And thethird aspect in which it's unusual is that the SupremeCourt of Mississippi, according to some of the parties,has overturned previous cases of that court which said thechancery court lacks the power to enter the plan, and itdid it without writing an opinion. It's normal that acourt writes an opinion. Now, is there any likelihood or chance that theMississippi Supreme Court, before this issue comes back tous, if it does, would explain what the reason is fordeparting from what seems to be a long precedent?MR. WALLACE: I suspect the Mississippi SupremeCourt can take a hint as well as the Justice Department,Justice Breyer. There was no error in this injunction, and ordinarily, the Court would not edit opinions on validjudgments. But if the Court does that, then certainly theJustice Department may move. I think the Supreme Court ofMississippi may move. We moved for a stay at the Supreme Court ofMississippi. That stay was denied. The briefing isfinished. There has been no stay order. I presume theywill set the case for oral argument in due course. But ifthey get an opinion from this Court that says, we'dcertainly like to know what you have to say, I think I can th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC say with confidence that they will set the case with --for -- for argument in due course. So as -- as Justice Breyer says, it is a strangecase. We think it is a case in which the judgment isabsolutely correct, and the -- and what the JusticeDepartment has done is absolutely correct under itsregulations. QUESTION: But would you say it's absolutelycorrect if the constitutional reasoning were wrong, and ifthey say we won't approve a -- a Mississippi plan that isin violation of our constitutional holding?MR. WALLACE: The -- as -- as Justice Ginsburghas observed, I think that is an alternative ground in theopinion. I do not think that it affects -- infects thejudgment, but it makes a problem, as Mr. McDuff has noted, because even if there is section preclearance down theroad, this district court would enjoin it again. QUESTION: Is it your view that the section ground of decision is sufficient to -- to uphold the --the injunction below?MR. WALLACE: We believe that it is sufficientto uphold the judgment below because there is no error inthe judgment, and there is no error --QUESTION: But if -- if that's true, did not thedistrict court violate our rule against deciding th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC constitutional issues unnecessarily?MR. WALLACE: I think they did not, althoughit's a close call. In Ashwander --QUESTION: Why is it a close call if -- if thejudgment is clearly correct on the section ground?MR. WALLACE: The -- the district court --QUESTION: It seems to me it's only a close callif you think there's doubt about the section ground.MR. WALLACE: And that's why the district courtset the alternative judgments. I think they thought theywere making it easier for this Court. Ashwander doesn'tsay never decide a constitutional question. QUESTION: It doesn't -- says you don't do it ifit's not necessary, and it clearly was not necessary ifthey're right on the section ground, which everybody seems to agree they were. MR. WALLACE: We certainly agree that they were,and if they're -- and if --QUESTION: The other side doesn't agree theywere. Would -- would you bet your life that they're --that they're right about that? (Laughter.) MR. WALLACE: I would be -- let me turn to that,if I may, Justice Scalia, because we believe that theyare -- that the Justice Department and the district court th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC were correct on the section ground. And that goes backto the February th letter for more information. As theAssistant Solicitor General has said, that's a standardapplication of Georgia versus United States. When youhave -- when you need more information to decide asection issue, then the Justice Department is entitledto stop the clock and ask for more information, and theclock won't move again until they get more information. This is a -- a straightforward application of a regulationthat this Court has already approved. The district court so found, believed that therequest for more information was absolutely valid, andtherefore said, there has been no approval, there is noplan in place, and for that reason, we must put in a planof our own. QUESTION: Mr. Wallace, there is somethingunusual about that request for information. It seems tohave been triggered by the district court. I'm looking atpage a of the appendix to the jurisdictional statementwhere the district court is commenting on this opinion,this opaque opinion, of the Mississippi Supreme Court thatsays the chancery court has authority, and then says --this is the end of the first paragraph on the page -- thatat the very least, the Attorney General of the UnitedStates will consider the implications very carefully and th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC might perhaps request more information. I'm not aware ofthe -- of district courts telling the Attorney General howthe preclearance process should run. Is this standardoperating procedure? MR. WALLACE: By no means is it standard,Justice Ginsburg. But what the district court was doingin this case was deciding whether or not there would beenough time for the preclearance to be completed beforethe qualifying date. The intervenors were suggesting wedid not need a Federal trial, we should wait for theJustice Department to finish its work. The Justice Department already had before it acomplicated submission from the -- from the AttorneyGeneral of Mississippi, which begins on page -- aof the appendix to the jurisdictional statement, and that presented not only the -- not only the congressionalredistricting plan itself, but also the decision of theSupreme Court of Mississippi to overrule years ofprecedent and allow trial courts to do redistricting. Sothose two issues were already before the JusticeDepartment when the district court wrote.But all the district court wrote -- said is, wethink we better get busy and try this case because thislooks like a real hard submission to us, and we're notsure that they're going to be able to decide this case th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC before our qualifying date. So it's unusual, but it'scertainly well within the -- the scope of what thedistrict court was being asked to do. And I think theyproperly pointed out problems. And -- and with the help of the districtcourt -- the help, indeed, of the submission that AttorneyGeneral Moore had already made, I think the JusticeDepartment properly saw that there were questions thatneeded to be asked. They asked those questions, and thatstopped the days from running. QUESTION: We also have to reach your issue,don't we? Even if we agree with you on that, we stillhave to reach the cross-appeal issue, don't we?MR. WALLACE: I -- I think you do.QUESTION: Or do we? MR. WALLACE: I think you do because in --because once it is conceded that the -- the district courthad to impose a remedy in , then the question arisesof what that remedy should be. And it was our position inthe district court, and it is our position here that thedistrict court should have enforced the law of the Stateof Mississippi, as Justice Stevens has observed, says thatyou must have at-large elections, and an act of Congressdating back to that says you must have at-largeelections in these circumstances. That's section a(c)() th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC of Title II. We ask for that to be enforced, and that'san issue that I think must be reached in this caseregardless. I think the United States has the only argumentfor not enforcing the act. They claim that it isabsolutely incontrovertibly inconsistent on its face. Forthe reasons that Justice O'Connor has stated, we think itis not inconsistent on its face. We also point back --QUESTION: No court has ever done it before --MR. WALLACE: No court --QUESTION: -- in all of the years that courtshave been operating under this act.MR. WALLACE: This Court did it under almostidentical statutes years ago in Smiley and Carroll and Koenig.QUESTION: c didn't exist then.MR. WALLACE: There was a act that saidbasically the same thing. The act says you shallelect Representatives by districts, but at the same timeit says, but if districts have not be redistricted, thenany new Representatives will be elected at large. Andthat's --QUESTION: To get your -- to get your result,you have to read, there shall be established by State law th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC a number of districts, et cetera. And -- and, in fact,it's pretty hard to read it that way, for me it seems,because this thing, there shall be established by law anumber of districts, i.e., not at-large, was enacted byCongress in response to courts that had threatened --courts, not legislatures -- that had threatened at-largeelections. And so they were quite unhappy about that inCongress, and they passed this law saying there shall beestablished by law a number districts. It seems to metheir object was certainly court districting, wasn't it,as well as legislative districting?MR. WALLACE: As difficult as it is to read themind of Congress, Justice Breyer, I think that while theywere clearly unhappy, they were unable to agree in anydetail on what ought to be done. And even on section c, there was -- there were people who stood up in both housesof Congress and suggested that this law would not beenforced in States -- in court proceedings, that it wasbeing -- that it was addressing itself to legislatures.QUESTION: It was repeating the law thatyou just mentioned? MR. WALLACE: There it --QUESTION: Why -- why did they -- why didthey pass it if it didn't do anything but -- but say whatthe -- what the law already said? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. WALLACE: I think it's -- I think it isdifficult to know why they passed it, there being noreports --QUESTION: Well, you've got to give me someplausible reason. I mean --QUESTION: Legislative history helps, by theway. (Laughter.) QUESTION: I gather the legislative historyyou've just told us is, as usual, on both sides of thisthing. Is that right?(Laughter.) MR. WALLACE: We believe it is, Your Honor. As -- as was noted in the Hanson decision in the D.C.Circuit, I think there was gamesmanship on both sides in both houses. Gamesmanship is a word that comes from theHanson case. QUESTION: But, Mr. Wallace, one thing isn't, Ithink, debatable and that is since c is on the books, nocourt has ever resorted to whatever -- was a, whatever. Since c is there, that's the one that the courts haveused, is that not so?MR. WALLACE: It is -- I don't know that theyhave enforced c. I think most of them have believed thatthey were acting under this Court's oversight which tells th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC courts always to read -- always to do single-memberdistricts when they can. But it's certainly true,Justice Ginsburg, no court since has ordered at-largeelections in -- in redistricting cases. But we believe what -- if you look at the rulesof construction, and at what Congress actually did,without trying to speculate on what they were trying todo, they enacted language that had been before this Courtin and was -- and was construed in to allowat-large elections.QUESTION: I assume --QUESTION: Except --QUESTION: Go on. QUESTION: No. Except for one fact, and that is now we have a districting statute which -- which is the later one intime. The -- the districting command and the at-largecommand are no longer of -- of even weight. Thedistricting command is later in time and therefore, to theextent that there's any conflict, that's got to get someprecedence.MR. WALLACE: That would -- and that is adifference in because those two parts of the act wereenacted at the same time. QUESTION: Yes, yes. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. WALLACE: But if they could be construedconsistently in , then I think they can be construedconsistently in . And if they can be construedconsistently, it doesn't matter which one was enactedfirst.QUESTION: Except that there would be nopossible reason for reenacting it if they're -- if they'regoing to be construed consistently, just as they were whenthey were both enacted simultaneously. MR. WALLACE: The -- the difficulty of figuringout what Congress thought it was doing on this singlepiece of legislation tacked onto a private immigrationbill is very difficult, Justice Scalia. I recognize it. But as we noted in our brief, which did discuss thelegislative history, they had thought about this for years and specifically considered repealing the act, and they didn't do it. They came back and didsomething else. And we think under standard rules of --of construction, that means the act --QUESTION: Mr. Wallace, do you agree with the --with Mr. Feldman that in any event the Mississippi statuteis out of the picture because that's pre-empted no matterwhich way we go on this issue?MR. WALLACE: I think it would be hard to arguethat Congress impliedly repealed a act and didn't th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC intend to pre-empt a State law that said the same thing. I've tried to come up with that argument, Justice Stevens,but I don't think I can make it. (Laughter.) MR. WALLACE: So --QUESTION: What do you -- what do you answer tothe -- the fear that one has to have that redistricting byhaving all the elections at large is precisely what thosewho were interested in diluting minority vote would like?MR. WALLACE: Well, first of all, Your Honor,the -- the answer that I have is that an act of Congressis not subject to the Voting Rights Act, and would beenforced on its face. But the other answer I have is this. We have along history over the last and years in Mississippi of coming up with remedies which will protect the rightsof minority voters. The most common remedy since Ginglesis to do single-member districts, but it's not the onlyremedy. And there are remedies where you can elect peopleat large and because of the way the election is held, allpeople running together, not requiring majority votes, nothaving -- not having anti-single-shot requirements, thosehave worked in Mississippi. Minorities have been electedin white jurisdictions in multi-member races by usingthose sorts of procedures. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Congress didn't tell us what sort of procedureto use in an at-large election, and in Young v. Fordice,this Court made clear that whatever procedures you usewould have to be precleared. I don't think thelegislature will act for all of the reasons we've seen,but the district court would certainly use those remedies.They've used them before. Minorities will be protected.QUESTION: Mr. Wallace, can I go back to theconstitutional issue that the district court decided inthis case? Your -- your adversaries say that you do notdefend the reasoning employed by the district court, eventhough you defend their judgment. Do you think that's afair comment on your position?MR. WALLACE: I think I defend the reasoning ofthe district court as far as it went. I draw adistinction between this case and Growe that they -- theysimply said that in Growe, the Supreme Court did notconsider this issue, which is true, and therefore we lookat the chancery court. It's not the legislature. Itcan't act. There is a distinction -- another distinctionbetween Growe and this case, which -- which the districtcourt did not dwell on and we dwell on in our briefs. InGrowe, there was a Federal claim before the districtcourt -- before the State court. And under the Supremacy th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Clause, ordinarily a State court must litigate Federalclaims, and this Court recognized their authority to doso in Growe. Here, for whatever reason, the plaintiffs inthe -- in the chancery court who are intervenors in thisCourt did not assert a Federal claim. They made it quiteplain, we are proceeding only under State law. We do notwant to proceed under Federal law, and that underU.S. v. Term Limits simply doesn't exist. There is noFederal -- there is no State law claim for congressionalredistricting. So that's the difference between Growe andthis case, and this is -- that's the grounds on which wedefend it. QUESTION: You mean there is no State lawrequiring redistricting at all?MR. WALLACE: There is -- there is no Statelaw -- first of all, there is no State law requiringredistricting. There are statutes that talk about how thelegislature proceeds, but there is no substantive law thatsays redistricting shall take place. QUESTION: So as a matter of State law, theMississippi legislature is under no duty to -- toredistrict?MR. WALLACE: It is under no duty to redistrict,and could be under no duty to redistrict because the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC redistricting requirement comes only from the UnitedStates Constitution. The authority to redistrict comesfrom the Elections Clause, and the State of Mississippicannot impose on their legislators any requirement havingto do with congressional redistricting. A decision wasmade by the Framers over years ago that legislatorsare the people to regulate congressional elections, and ifthey fail to do it in their job of representing thepeople, then Congress will do it in its job ofrepresenting the people. QUESTION: Why can't a State just say we requireour legislature under State law to conform to the Federalrequirements by having a plan by January th by going tothe chancery court if you don't have a plan, et cetera?MR. WALLACE: Because at that point, Your Honor, it -- it -- the -- perhaps the legislature could do that.QUESTION: And if the State of Mississippi says,well, that in effect is what they did, don't we have totake their word for it? MR. WALLACE: No, I don't think you do, YourHonor. First of all, perhaps they could delegateauthority. If the legislature said this problem is toohard for us, we want to delegate it to State courts, thenthat -- that issue would be tested like any otherdelegation. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: In a State court, and here we have anunexplained judgment without an opinion of the MississippiSupreme Court which seems to say that's what it is. Itdoesn't say, but that's the holding of it. MR. WALLACE: But it -- but when you are dealingwith Federal constitutional guarantees and provisions, youdo not always take the State courts as -- as gospel evenon State law. The district court here said there is nodelegation, and as Your Honor knows, there was noexplanation of why the writ of prohibition was denied. It really doesn't set much of a precedent for anything,but the district court, which is familiar with Mississippilaw, says there is no delegation in this case. We havelooked at Mississippi law, and nothing has been delegated.So the question of whether a legislature could delegate power to the courts is not here. What we havebefore us is a case where the legislature has notdelegated power to the courts. It has simply done nothingand when it does nothing, the States in that circumstanceare powerless to act if we go back to the acts ofCongress, and we think we enforce the at-large statutefrom as the district court should have done. If there are no questions, I thank the Court.QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. Wallace.Mr. McDuff, you have minutes left. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF ROBERT B. McDUFFON BEHALF OF APPELLANTS/CROSS-APPELLEES BRANCH, ET AL.MR. McDUFF: Thank you, Your Honor. Justice Breyer, the State of Mississippi doeswant to put the plan into effect. That was the order ofthe Mississippi Supreme Court, however brief it was,saying the chancery court's plan will remain in effectuntil -- unless superseded by a timely plan of the Statelegislature. The Attorney General submitted the plan forpreclearance under order by the chancery court. He hasdone -- he has not withdrawn the preclearance submission.QUESTION: The statutory language is not -- isnot whether it's in effect or not. It's whether he'sseeking to administer it. That's the problem. MR. McDUFF: And -- and there's nothing about the absence of the appeal here, particularly where we aretaking the appeal, that suggests he's not seeking toadminister it, Justice Scalia. And let me mention one other thing along thoselines. The language is enact or seek to administer. Now,the lesson of Growe v. Emison, at least we think, is thata State court stands in the shoes of the legislature whenthe legislature defaults on redistricting, and certainlyif the legislature had enacted this plan, and the -- ithad been enjoined by the Federal court for whatever th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC reasons, and the Attorney General had not taken an appeal,but legislative leaders had or intervenors had, I don'tthink we would say that the preclearance submission wasthereby withdrawn. It seems to me the State court is inno different position, and we shouldn't say that theAttorney General's failure to appeal here would withdrawthe submission where it wouldn't in the legislativecontext. The -- and -- and the plan has been preclearedin our view, if not the -- by the first days, certainlyby the time of the second days, where the JusticeDepartment said, we're not going to continue to reviewthis plan because of the constitutional injunction.Well, there's no language in section thatstops the -day period from running on that ground. That -- it is a statute that admits of no exceptions. There is no regulation that allow -- by which the JusticeDepartment says, we will not continue to -- to considera -- a plan that has been enjoined on constitutionalgrounds. And in fact, the Solicitor General has not evensaid in his brief that that is the regular practice of theDepartment. Here there are compelling reasons why it isimportant for the -day period to be removed even ifthere's a constitutional injunction. Often these cases th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC are decided under severe time constraints. If aconstitutional injunction is imposed, State officials maytry to remove it as quickly as possible and restore theplan in time for the election. If the section obstacleis delayed in the meantime, the -- it -- it, in effect,prolongs itself by feeding off the constitutionalinjunction, and even if the constitutional injunction isvacated, the State still has to deal with thisnow-postponed section obstacle that will not be removedin some situations in time for the election.Let me say one other thing about theconstitutional ruling, the fact that it was an alternativeground. We think there is doubt about the section ground, as we've suggested here, and particularly giventhe importance of resolving these cases so that elections can go forward without continued Federal courtinterference, I think it is crucial for this Court to ruleon the constitutional ground, as well as the preclearanceground here.The rule of Connor, and the rule of the WarrenCounty case are not jurisdictional rules. They'resupervisory rules imposed by this Court to ensure theorderly processing of the section issue when it's --when it's in a case in which other issues are involved.Here the orderly processing of this litigation, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC and the creation of the situation where Mississippi canconduct its elections in without continued confusionof the type that we had at the last election, thatinterest favors resolving the constitutional issue now, atthe same time the section issue is resolved. And so for all of these reasons and the reasonsset forth in our brief, we respectfully urge that theCourt vacate the injunction of the district court on allgrounds. JUSTICE STEVENS: Thank you, Mr. McDuff.The case is submitted.(Whereupon, at : a.m., the case in theabove-entitled matter was submitted.) th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC 