 IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XVIRGINIA, Petitioner ::v. : No. -BARRY ELTON BLACK, RICHARD J. ELLIOTT, AND JONATHAN O'MARA. :::- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XWashington, D.C.Wednesday, December , The above-entitled matter came on for oralargument before the Supreme Court of the United States at: a.m.APPEARANCES:WILLIAM H. HURD, ESQ., State Solicitor, Richmond,Virginia; on behalf of the Petitioner.MICHAEL R. DREEBEN, ESQ., Deputy Solicitor General,Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on behalf ofthe United States, as amicus curiae, supporting thePetitioner. RODNEY A. SMOLLA, ESQ., Richmond, Virginia; on behalfof the Respondents. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC C O N T E N T SORAL ARGUMENT OF WILLIAM H. HURD, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioner MICHAEL R. DREEBEN, ESQ.On behalf of the United States, as amicus curiae, supporting the Petitioner RODNEY A. SMOLLA, ESQ.On behalf of the Respondents REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OFWILLIAM H. HURD, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioner PAGE th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC P R O C E E D I N G S(: a.m.)JUSTICE STEVENS: We'll hear argument now inVirginia against Black.Mr. Hurd, please, you may proceed.ORAL ARGUMENT OF WILLIAM H. HURDON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERMR. HURD: Justice Stevens, and may it pleasethe Court:Our Virginia cross-burning statute protects avery important freedom, freedom from fear, and it does sowithout compromising freedom of speech. Our statute doesnot ban all cross-burning, only cross-burning used tothreaten bodily harm. And unlike the ordinance in R.A.V.,our statute does not play favorites. It bans cross-burning as a tool of intimidation by anyone, againstanyone, and for any reason. Surely, for all the reasonswhy we can ban threats of bodily harm, times over wecan ban this exceedingly virulent weapon of fear. QUESTION: Mr. Hurd, I -- there's one part ofthe statute that may be troublesome, and that is the primafacie evidence provision. I suppose you could have across-burning, for instance, in a play, in a theater,something like that, which in theory shouldn't violate thestatute, but here's the prima facie evidence provision. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Would you like to comment about that, and in the process,would you tell me if you think it's severable, or what'sthe story on that --MR. HURD: Justice O'Connor, I would like tocomment about that. There are three major points I wouldlike to make. First is the inference is simply a common senserule of evidence. It says that a burning cross may bepresumed to mean what we all know it ordinarily does mean,a threat of bodily harm. And so it says no more than whata prosecutor could argue if the inference were not there. QUESTION: And the jury is instructedaccordingly by the judge? MR. HURD: The jury is not required to accept. It's --judge? QUESTION: No. Is the jury so instructed by theMR. HURD: Where the inference is given, yes,Your Honor, it -- it is so instructed, and was soinstructed in -- in the Black case, though not in theElliott case.QUESTION: Do we have the instruction that wasgiven in the Black case? MR. HURD: Yes, Justice Ginsburg. It appears inthe appendix. The instruction is a burning cross -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: What page? Are you talking about thejoint appendix?MR. HURD: Yes, Your Honor. QUESTION: And where would that be?MR. HURD: Instruction number in the jointappendix. I apologize for the delay. QUESTION: Well, maybe you -- maybe you shouldtell us later, and proceed.MR. HURD: On page . The burning of a crossby itself is sufficient evidence from which you may inferthe required intent. QUESTION: It didn't say that they -- it justsaid the positive, that they could make such an inference.MR. HURD: Yes, Justice Ginsburg. It is apurely permissive inference. The prosecution retains the burden of proving beyond a reasonable doubt that there wasan intent to intimidate.QUESTION: In this -- in the particular casesbefore us, what evidence, other than the burning itself,was there to show intimidation?MR. HURD: What we had in the case of -- ofBarry Black was he heard that -- he's from Pennsylvania,and he heard that down in Carroll County, blacks andwhites were holding hands on the sidewalk. And so theycame down. He came down, and they had this event. They th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC chose a spot near an open stretch of highway where theyerected a -foot cross. That's as high as these columns. And they burned it at night with a loudspeaker and talkabout taking a ./. and randomly shooting blacks.QUESTION: Now, was that -- did that intimidateeveryone who drove by in their passenger vehicle or --let's put it this way -- racial minorities who drove by intheir passenger vehicle? All of those were intimidated?MR. HURD: Whether or not there was actualintimidation of minorities who drove by was not clearlyestablished by the record. There was evidence in therecord that a black family did drive by, pause, saw it,and took off at a higher than normal rate of speed.QUESTION: Yes, but surely they were in no fearof immediate violence, and our -- our Brandenburg line of cases says there must be an element of immediacy --MR. HURD: Justice Kennedy --QUESTION: -- before you can punish speech byreason of its content.MR. HURD: Brandenburg was an incitement case,not -- not a threat case, although there was across-burning in Brandenburg --QUESTION: Well, then if I -- if I have apicture of a burning cross, and I -- and I give it tosomebody, that's -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. HURD: No, Your Honor. There has to be a --a burning cross. In Brandenburg --QUESTION: Isn't that because there's animmediacy element to the threat?MR. HURD: Well, we believe, Your Honor, that --that if you read into the -- the threat jurisprudence animmediacy element, then -- two points I would make. Number one is that you would -- you wouldconstitutionalize threats when someone said, I'm going tokill you, but it won't be for a little while. Surely thatcan't be the case. A threat, say, against the Presidentwould be constitutional so long as the -- the time whenthe threat was going to be delivered was delayed.QUESTION: Well, that -- that may be -- that maybe a different -- so -- so in your view if a burning cross is just put on a hill outside of the city, everybody inthe city can be deemed intimidated?MR. HURD: Not necessarily, Your Honor. The --the burning cross carries not merely a message ofintimidation, but -- a -- a threat of bodily harm, but athreat of bodily harm soon to arrive. Now, the --QUESTION: Why doesn't Virginia just have astatute making it a crime to threaten bodily harm that'ssoon to arrive --MR. HURD: Well, we -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: -- burning cross or not?MR. HURD: We could have such a statute, YourHonor, but the -- the availability of other options doesnot mean the option we have chosen is unconstitutional. QUESTION: Do other States have criminalstatutes that have the broad-based intimidationprohibition that I've just described?MR. HURD: Your Honor, some -- some very wellmay. Again --QUESTION: I have not found one. MR. HURD: Respectfully, that -- that eventwould not -- would not be the test we believe establishedby this Court in R.A.V.Moreover, Your Honor, there's a -- there's adown side to having a broad statute, and it is this. Thatwhenever you prohibit a proscribable category of speech,there will be a -- a zone of protected speech that looks alot like the proscribed category and in which people mustbe somewhat careful or they may be arrested mistakenly, ashappened with Mr. Watts in the Watts case. QUESTION: I thought the key here is that thisis not just speech. It is not just speech. It's actionthat -- that is intended to convey a message. MR. HURD: It is --QUESTION: Surely -- surely your State could th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC make it unlawful to brandish -- brandish an automaticweapon with the intent of -- of intimidating somebody,couldn't it? MR. HURD: Justice Scalia, we -- we havestatutes that prohibit brandishing of firearms. In fact,a -- a burning cross is very much like a brandishing of afirearm. QUESTION: That's your point.MR. HURD: It is virtually -- it is virtuallya -- a present offer of force. That makes it anespecially virulent form of -- of intimidation. Let me, if I may, come back to JusticeO'Connor's point about the inference. Justice O'Connor,you asked whether the inference could be struck down,severed. We believe the answer to that question is -- is absolutely. If this Court were to decide it wasproblematic, under Virginia law, as we cite in our briefs,it is -- it is severable. We have a general severabilitystatute in Virginia so that if the Court were not to agreewith us that this inference is constitutional, it shouldnot declare the entire statute invalid, but should severthe inference and remand these cases for further action.QUESTION: Well, just to make it clear, anytimein Virginia a burning cross is put near a highway, that isan -- a criminal offense. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. HURD: Your Honor, it is a criminal offenseto burn a cross with intent to intimidate. Now, what --QUESTION: Even on your own property.QUESTION: No, not on your own --MR. HURD: On your own property if it is a -- apublic place. A public place is defined in our statute --actually on a jury instruction -- as being not publicownership, but public view.QUESTION: And intimidate means to cause fear ofviolence at some unspecified time in the future --MR. HURD: To -- to --QUESTION: -- from some unspecified people. MR. HURD: To instill fear of -- of bodily harm.The specificity of the people is not hard to figure out. It's whoever burns the cross is the one who is delivering the threat. Justice Kennedy, there -- there are --QUESTION: May I ask -- may I ask you a questionon -- about instruction to which you called ourattention? It says, the court instructs the jury that theburning of a cross by itself is sufficient evidence fromwhich you may infer the required intent. Does that meanit is sufficient beyond a reasonable doubt by which youcan do it?MR. HURD: Certainly the jury could, by thisinstruction, by the burning cross infer -- infer guilt. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: So that in -- in a case in whichthere was a cross burned out in the middle of a desertsomewhere, and that's all that's proved, that would beenough to sustain the conviction.MR. HURD: That would be enough to -- to get youpast a motion to strike. Of course, sustaining a --QUESTION: Let's say there's no -- the defendantputs in no evidence, just rests on the -- on -- on justremains mute. He could be convicted on it in that case,I think. MR. HURD: If the instruction were given, hecould be convicted. Of course, in this case, we have morethan a burning cross. And his -- his argument, YourHonor --QUESTION: I understand that. But then my nextquestion is -- I'm asking about whether there's contentdiscrimination. Supposing he burned a -- a circle, hecould not be convicted on the same evidence. MR. HURD: He could not. A burning circle,unlike a burning cross, carries no particular message. And, Justice Stevens, I would -- I would pointout that where this Court has previously struck downevidentiary inferences, it has done so under the DueProcess Clause.QUESTION: In the case of a desert, he's out in th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC the desert, and he's burning the cross for symbolicpurposes and nobody else is around. I guess wouldn't thejudge have to set aside the conviction on -- on FirstAmendment grounds.MR. HURD: Justice Breyer, absolutely. There's -- there's -- the General Assembly chose this wordvery carefully when it said a prima facie case. The Statesupreme court was very careful when they said, based onthat language, it would survive a motion to strike, butthere's no attempt in the statute to preclude the kind ofindependent post-conviction review as required in FirstAmendment cases. So absolutely in that case, if -- if -- first ofall, if the police made an arrest, which is doubtful, andif it was prosecuted, which is doubtful, and if the jury found guilt, which is doubtful, then the court could inthat case and should in that case vacate the conviction.QUESTION: Well, that -- that's fine if you usethe term prima facie case, which is what the statute says. But the instruction here said the burning of a cross byitself is sufficient evidence from which you may infer therequired intent. And you think that's an accurate -- anaccurate conveyance to the jury of what is meant by primafacie case.MR. HURD: The -- the -- that obviously was not th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC the only instruction given, Justice Scalia.QUESTION: I understand.MR. HURD: There was also instructions giventhat -- that required the prosecution to prove its casebeyond a -- a reasonable doubt. And --QUESTION: But -- but then it goes on to say theburning of a cross is sufficient evidence from which youmay infer the -- the required intent.MR. HURD: May, but -- but need not necessarily.QUESTION: Need -- no, not necessarily. Butthat seems to me to be much more than what you nowdescribe as the consequence of a prima facie case. Just -- just one that gets you past a -- a motion todismiss.MR. HURD: Well, the -- the jury --QUESTION: It says it's sufficient evidence tofind it if -- if that's all you --MR. HURD: And Justice Scalia, if there were aproblem with that instruction, it would be in our viewa -- a due process problem, not a First Amendment problem.QUESTION: Well, I thought there would be aFirst Amendment problem in the unusual hypotheticalinstance of the desert, where they gave this instructionand the very thirsty jury convicted the person under thisinstruction. Were that to happen, then that might violate th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC the First Amendment since there was no evidence in thecase that this was going to intimidate a person, and theonly basis for a conviction would have been theinstruction of the State. And under those circumstances,I guess the State instruction permitting conviction wouldviolate the First Amendment. QUESTION: In other words, every due processviolation in a First Amendment case is a First Amendmentviolation.QUESTION: Not necessarily. QUESTION: But that's quite a far --(Laughter.) MR. HURD: Justice Scalia, Justice Breyer, inany event that very unusual case would present anas-applied challenge. QUESTION: May I ask you --QUESTION: I agree it's unusual. QUESTION: -- about a more -- a more -- case ofimmediate concern? You have said that the cross --burning cross is a symbol like no other. And so this is aself-contained category. What about other things that areassociated with the Klan? For example, the white robesand the mask? Are they also symbols that the State canban, or is there something about the burning cross thatmakes it unique? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. HURD: Justice Ginsburg, there -- there areseveral things about the burning cross that make itunique.First, it is the symbol that the Klan has usedto -- to threaten bodily harm. The connection, if youwill, in our history is -- is between the burning crossand ensuing violence, not so much between people wearingwhite sheets and ensuing violence.QUESTION: Isn't there a Federal statute thatmakes it -- makes it an offense to go on the highwaywearing a -- wearing a sheet?QUESTION: In disguise.MR. HURD: And going in disguise on the highwaywith a particular intent -- I believe there is. And wehave a statute in -- in Virginia. One of the things -- let me -- let me make thispoint about the burning cross --QUESTION: I -- I --MR. HURD: -- and why it's -- why it's unique.QUESTION: You're saying it's not unique then ifyou could also make going on the highway in disguise acrime.MR. HURD: Well, I think going on the highway indisguise is -- is a different kind of -- of concern. It's -- it's the same kind of concern that might, in a th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC variety of cases, prevent people from disguising theiridentity from -- from law enforcement. But in terms of -- of delivering symbols anddelivering threats, it really is unique. It says -- itsays, we're close at hand. We don't just talk. We act. And it deliberately invokes the precedent of years ofcross-burning as a tool of intimidation. Burn anything else. Burn the flag. Burn asheet. The message is opposition to the thing that thesymbol unburned represents. Burning a cross is notopposition to Christianity. The message is a threat ofbodily harm, and it -- it is unique. And it's not simplya message of bigotry. It's a message that -- that whoeverhas it in their hands, a message of bodily harm is coming. That is the primary message --QUESTION: It sounds to me like you're defendingthe statute on the ground that the message that thisparticular act conveys is particularly obnoxious.MR. HURD: Obnoxious. Justice Stevens, we havea lot of obnoxious speech, and it's all perfectly fine. This is not obnoxious speech. This is a -- a threat ofbodily harm.Justice Souter made the point in the concurrencein -- in Hill v. Colorado the Government may punishcertain types of expressive conduct even though that th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC conduct is associated with a particular point of view. Those who burn draft cards typically oppose the draft. Those who engage in sidewalk counseling typically opposeabortion. But we can oppose restrictions on thoseactivities. Similarly, we can ban cross burning as a tool ofintimidation even though many people who practicecross-burning may also carry with that cross-burning somemessage of bigotry. But the primary message -- thefundamental message is a threat of bodily harm.And this is not something that we just made up. Cross-burning has that message because for decades theKlan wanted it to have that message because they wantedthat tool of intimidation. And so it rings a littlehollow when the Klan comes to court and complains that our law treats that message -- treats that burning cross ashaving exactly the message that they for decades havewanted it to have. And so, we do believe that our statute is -- isquite constitutional. They may have a political rallywith a burning cross, but what they cannot do is use aKlan ceremony as a way to smuggle through real threats ofbodily harm with a specific intent to intimidate. That iswhat happened in the Barry Black case, as the jury found. The sufficiency of the evidence in that case has -- has th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC not been contested. For these reasons, we would ask the Court toreverse the decision below and, Justice Stevens, I'd liketo reserve the balance of my time. QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. Hurd.Mr. Dreeben.ORAL ARGUMENT OF MICHAEL R. DREEBENON BEHALF OF THE UNITED STATES,AS AMICUS CURIAE, SUPPORTING THE PETITIONERMR. DREEBEN: Thank you, Justice Stevens, andmay it please the Court:Virginia has singled out cross-burning with theintent to intimidate because it is a particularlythreatening form of such conduct. History has revealedthat cross-burning has been used as a tool to intimidate and put people in fear of bodily violence in a way that noother symbol has been used.QUESTION: Does it fall under the fighting wordsnotion, or is it a separate category of constitutionallyproscribable speech do you suppose?MR. DREEBEN: Justice O'Connor, our analysis ofthe intimidation element is that it's akin to a threat toput somebody in bodily harm. And as such --QUESTION: Is it -- is it a defense under thestatute for someone to prove that they didn't intend to th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC threaten anyone, but just purely to express a viewpoint?MR. DREEBEN: Apart from the presumption orprima facie case provision that Your Honor calledattention to earlier, the prohibitory language of thestatute does not reach cross-burning when it is donesolely for the point of expressing a particular view.QUESTION: And how -- how do you look at thestatute in light of the prima facie evidence provision?MR. DREEBEN: Justice O'Connor, it raisesseparate issues that are distinct from whether across-burning statute can single out that particularactivity and prohibit it on the basis of itsthreatening --QUESTION: But that's part of this statute thatwe have to look at, isn't it? MR. DREEBEN: It is, but the Virginia SupremeCourt approached the issue by first asking whether thecross-burning provision, insofar as it targetedcross-burning --QUESTION: Yes.MR. DREEBEN: -- ran afoul of this Court'sdecision in R.A.V., and it only then turned to the primafacie case provision --QUESTION: Yes.MR. DREEBEN: -- and concluded that it rendered th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC the statute overbroad. The United States has not taken a position onthe validity of the prima facie case provision, which doesraise distinct issues because it could allow a jury incertain instances to infer solely from the act ofcross-burning, without any other evidence at all --QUESTION: And that was the instruction givenhere.MR. DREEBEN: That was the instruction given inone of the two cases. In the Elliott case, there was noinstruction --QUESTION: Yes.MR. DREEBEN: -- whatsoever on the prima faciecase provision, and so Elliott's case is somewhatsimilar -- differently situated from -- from the Black case. But a cross-burning statute like this functionsnot like a fighting words statute which seeks to avertbreaches of the peace by the use of particularly obnoxiouslanguage that would induce anybody to strike back with aviolent reaction. It functions instead on the theory thata signal to violence, or a warning that violence will comeis not protected within the First Amendment. It is aprohibited form of conduct, and when done as here by anact of putting a flaming cross in a place with the intent th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC to actually put somebody in fear of bodily harm, it's nota form of protected conduct that directly implicates theFirst Amendment. It's --QUESTION: Is it -- is it unlawful in Virginiato put somebody in fear of bodily harm in some otherfashion, not to burn a cross, but to say I'm going tolynch you? Is that -- is that unlawful in Virginia? MR. DREEBEN: Justice Scalia, my understandingof Virginia law is that it has a -- a written threatsstatute which would cover any threat of any kind inwriting, but it does not have a general intimidation orthreat statute that would reach other means of oralexpression. QUESTION: It's sort of peculiar, isn't it? MR. DREEBEN: Well, what Virginia has done is take something which has historically been used as aparticularly dangerous means of intimidation because ithas so often been followed up by actual violence andestablish a prohibition that is limited to that. Ratherthan sweeping in other classes of speech that may raisequestions when you come close to the line of whether it isor isn't intimidating and therefore might chill freeexpression, Virginia has chosen to focus on what conductoccurred within its borders that caused particular harms.And what -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: Was -- was there a common law ofintimidation, a tort -- a tort that went beyond assault?MR. DREEBEN: There is a common law of -- ofputting somebody in fear of bodily harm through the tortlaw. And there were similarly antecedent criminalprovisions that are --QUESTION: Is there -- is there an immediacycomponent to that as there is with assaults?MR. DREEBEN: No, there is not, Justice Kennedy,and it's crucial to underscore why that is. The harmsthat can be brought about by threat statutes are not onlyputting somebody in fear of bodily harm and therebydisrupting their movements, but providing a signal thatthe violence may actually occur. It may not occurtomorrow, the next day, or next week, but it's like a sword of Damocles hanging over the person whose head --who has been threatened. And in that sense it creates apervasive fear that can be ongoing for a considerableamount of time.QUESTION: Mr. Dreeben, aren't you understatingthe -- the effects of -- of the burning cross? Thisstatute was passed in what year?MR. DREEBEN: originally. QUESTION: Now, it's my understanding that wehad almost years of lynching and activity in the South th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC by the Knights of Camellia and -- and the Ku Klux Klan,and this was a reign of terror and the cross was a symbolof that reign of terror. Was -- isn't that significantlygreater than intimidation or a threat?MR. DREEBEN: Well, I think they're coextensive,Justice Thomas, because it is --QUESTION: Well, my fear is, Mr. Dreeben, thatyou're actually understating the symbolism on -- of andthe effect of the cross, the burning cross. I --I indicated, I think, in the Ohio case that the cross wasnot a religious symbol and that it has -- it was intendedto have a virulent effect. And I -- I think that whatyou're attempting to do is to fit this into ourjurisprudence rather than stating more clearly what thecross was intended to accomplish and, indeed, that it is unlike any symbol in our society. MR. DREEBEN: Well, I don't mean to understateit, and I entirely agree with Your Honor's description ofhow the cross has been used as an instrument ofintimidation against minorities in this country. That hasjustified States in treating it as a distinctive --QUESTION: Well, it's -- it's actually more thanminorities. There's certain groups. And I -- I just -- my fear is that the -- therewas no other purpose to the cross. There was no th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC communication of a particular message. It was intended tocause fear --MR. DREEBEN: It --QUESTION: -- and to terrorize a population. MR. DREEBEN: It absolutely was, and for thatreason can be legitimately proscribed without fear thatthe focusing on a cross -- burning of a cross with theintent to intimidate would chill protected expression. This is a very different case than the R.A.V.case that was before the Court. There the Court wasconfronted with a statute that prohibited the use oflanguage based on particular messages of group-basedhatred. And in singling out speech based on the content,the State was expressing disagreement with particularmessages. In the Virginia statute, and in the otherstatutes that the States have, the focus is not on anyparticular message. It is on the effect of intimidation,and the intent to create a climate of fear and, as JusticeThomas has said, a climate of terror.QUESTION: So your argument would be the sameeven if we assumed that the capacity of the cross toconvey this message was limited to certain groups, blacks,Catholics, or whatnot.MR. DREEBEN: I would, Justice Souter, and I th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC think it's for the reason that Your Honor pointed out inhis concurrence in Hill versus Colorado. Merely because aparticular activity might have become the signature of acertain ideological group does not prevent the State fromaddressing and regulating what is proscribable about thatactivity.QUESTION: But it seems to me from thisargument, if the message is as powerful as Justice Thomassuggests it is -- and I'm sure he's -- he's right aboutthat -- why is it necessary to go beyond the messageitself? Why -- why wouldn't it still be proscribable evenif the person burning it didn't realize all of thishistory, just did it innocently, but it nevertheless hadthat effect? MR. DREEBEN: Well, that would --QUESTION: Why do you need the intent?MR. DREEBEN: I think that would raise a muchmore difficult question because notwithstanding the factthat there is a very powerful linkage in our society suchthat the State is justified in singling out the cross, itmay be that under certain contexts, a particularindividual is attempting to express a message rather thanattempting to intimidate. And it -- it is important to note that merelyexpressing a message of race-based hatred is not something th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC that the State can proscribe --QUESTION: Surely -- surely one can burn a crossin the sanctity of one's bedroom. Right? (Laughter.) MR. DREEBEN: There -- there are -- there arehypothetical cases that one can imagine, the desert, thebedroom --QUESTION: No, but my assumption is that thegeographic scope of the statute is just like this statute. It doesn't apply to your own property, but on anyoneelse's property, or in public view. If the message is aspowerful as -- as we're assuming as it is, why isn't thata sufficient basis for just banning it? MR. DREEBEN: It might well be, Justice Stevens,but I think that a law that is more tailored, as this one is, and reaches those acts of cross-burning where it isthe very intent of the actor to put a person or group ofpeople in fear of bodily harm makes it quite clear thata -- that statute aims at the proscribable feature of thatconduct and not at the protected feature, namelyrace-based hatred. QUESTION: But if you can infer the -- theintent to intimidate just from the act, even when this isdone on one's own property, as it was in one of thesecases, doesn't that go beyond the line, if -- if you -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC cross-burning on your own property?MR. DREEBEN: Justice Stevens, may I answer?Justice Ginsburg, the inference provision isproblematic because it does raise the potential that awholly protected act of cross-burning, which this Courtmight find within the scope of the First Amendment, couldserve as the exclusive source of evidence from which aconviction could be rendered for unprotected conduct. Andit's for that reason that most States don't have any sortof analogous provision. The Federal Government doesn't,and it raises distinct problems from the targeting focusof the law that's at issue here. QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. Dreeben. Mr. Smolla, we'll -- we'll hear from you. ORAL ARGUMENT OF RODNEY A. SMOLLA ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTSMR. SMOLLA: Justice Stevens, and may it pleasethe Court:At the heart of our argument is that when theState targets a particular symbol or a particular symbolicritual, it engages in content and viewpoint discriminationof the type forbidden by the First Amendment. QUESTION: What -- what about the symbol ofbrandishing an automatic weapon in -- in somebody's face?MR. SMOLLA: Justice Scalia, I think -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: You're next.MR. SMOLLA: I think that a core element of ourargument is that there is a fundamental First Amendmentdifference between brandishing a cross, and brandishing agun. The physical properties of the gun as a weapon addpotency to the threat, and so if the State makes a threatcommitted with a firearm an especially heinous type ofthreat, it is acting within the confines of what ispermissible under R.A.V. because it is creating a subclassof threat and defining that subclass of threat for thesame reasons that allow it to define the outer perimeterof threat law, things going to the danger posed by thatthreat. But the properties of the cross are not physicalproperties, and the burning element of a burning cross are not what communicate the threat.QUESTION: But is -- isn't the -- isn't yourargument an argument that would have been sound before thecross, in effect, acquired the history that it has? If wewere in the year , and you had a choice betweensomebody brandishing the loaded gun, and somebodybrandishing a cross and nobody knew how the cross had beenused because it had not been used, your argument, it seemsto me, would be -- would be a winning one. How does your argument account for that fact th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC that the cross has acquired a potency which I wouldsuppose is at least as equal to that of the gun?MR. SMOLLA: Justice Souter, I think that ourargument is that in fact it works the reverse way, thatwhat the cross and the burning cross have acquired as akind of secondary meaning, somewhat akin to the way thattrademarks acquire secondary meaning in intellectualproperty law, are a multiplicity of messages. Undoubtedlya burning cross identified as -- as effectively thetrademark of the Ku Klux Klan carries horribleconnotations of terrorism of the kind --QUESTION: But it -- it carries something else,doesn't it? Isn't it not merely a -- a trademark that hasacquired a meaning? Isn't it also a kind of Pavloviansignal so that when that signal is given, the natural human response is not recognition of a message, but fear?MR. SMOLLA: No, Your Honor. RespectfullyI think that that overstates what is being communicated. Any symbol in its pristine state that has gatheredreverence in our society -- the American flag, the Star ofDavid, the cross, the symbols of government -- is apowerful, emotional symbol in -- in its revered state. QUESTION: But they don't make -- they don'tmake you scared, and if you start -- for your own safety. And if you start with the proposition that State can, in th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC fact, prevent threats that scare people reasonably -- fortheir own safety, this is in a separate category fromsimply a -- a symbol that has acquired a potent meaning.QUESTION: I dare say --MR. SMOLLA: Your Honor, the word scared isimportant in answering your question because it's -- it'swhat we mean by being scared, or what we mean by beingintimidated. If I see a burning cross, my stomach maychurn. I may feel a sense of loathing, disgust, a vaguesense of --QUESTION: Yes.MR. SMOLLA: -- of being intimidated because Iassociate it --QUESTION: How about a cross -- how about across --MR. SMOLLA: But that's not fear of bodily harm.QUESTION: How about a cross on your lawn?QUESTION: Yes. I dare say that you wouldrather see a man with a -- with a rifle on your frontlawn -- If you were a black man at night, you'd rather seea man with a rifle than see a burning cross on your frontlawn. MR. SMOLLA: Your Honor, I concede that. However -- however --QUESTION: The whole purpose of that is -- is to th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC terrorize.MR. SMOLLA: -- as -- as powerful as that pointis -- and I totally accept it, and totally accept thehistory that Justice Thomas has -- has recounted, and thatthe United States recounts in its brief as accurate. Aspowerful as all of those points are, there's not a singleinterest that society seeks to protect in protecting thatvictim that cannot be vindicated perfectly as well,exactly as well with no fall-off at all, bycontent-neutral alternatives, not merely generalrun-of-the-mill threat laws, or incitement laws, orintimidation laws which may have an antiseptic and sterilequality about them. You can go even beyond that --QUESTION: But why isn't this just a regulationof a particularly virulent form of intimidation? And whycan't the State regulate such things?MR. SMOLLA: Your Honor, it is not aparticularly virulent form of intimidation.QUESTION: Well, it is for the very reasonswe've explored this morning. What if I think it is? Whycan't the State regulate it?MR. SMOLLA: Because, Justice O'Connor, it isalso an especially virulent form of expression on ideasrelating to race, religion, politics --QUESTION: You were -- you were saying that the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC State can go -- doesn't have to have a sterile law onintimidation. It can go further, but not as far as this. What --MR. SMOLLA: Justice --QUESTION: What is this midpoint? MR. SMOLLA: Justice Kennedy, it is theWisconsin versus Mitchell bias enhancement-style modelwhere the interest of the State goes beyond justpreventing physical crime. It goes to preventing racism,acts of violence, threats, intimidation that are done outof bias and animus. That captures the fullness of all theconceivable State interests that there could possiblybe --QUESTION: Well, that was in conjunction with anactual physical assault.MR. SMOLLA: But -- but, Your Honor, in anyinstance in which the State were operating upon someconduct that it is constitutionally permissible toproscribe, such as a threat, the State could then enhancethe penalty. If you threaten out of racial animus, youget double the penalty, triple the penalty. And thatwould work in any cross-burning case --QUESTION: Suppose -- suppose if you threaten byuse of a cross -- burning cross, would that be a specificstatutory category that allows the penalty be -- to be th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC enhanced? MR. SMOLLA: Yes, Your Honor, and even more --QUESTION: Well, how can you have a statutorycategory which enhances the penalty that you can't alsouse to -- to describe the underlying offense?MR. SMOLLA: The -- the answer to that question,Justice Kennedy, lies in Wisconsin versus Mitchell wherethis Court held that the mere evidentiary use of speech toprove intent does not implicate the First Amendment. Andalthough the line is thin, it is gigantic in terms of ourFirst Amendment values. It is the difference --QUESTION: Well, let me ask you this. Supposingyou have a statute that prohibits intimidation by burningcircles, any -- any design of any kind, and the maximumpenalty is a year in jail, but if you burn a cross, it's years in jail. Would that be permissible?MR. SMOLLA: It would not be permissible, YourHonor, and the reason it --QUESTION: And -- and it's --MR. SMOLLA: -- would not be permissible is thecross has acquired this meaning as an ideological symbol.QUESTION: Because it's content-baseddiscrimination within the category of activity that can beentirely proscribed. MR. SMOLLA: That is precisely our argument. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: Now, is there any support for thatproposition other than the majority opinion in R.A.V.?MR. SMOLLA: Your Honor, R.A.V. is the only casethat dealt squarely with this puzzle of what happens whenyou're dealing with a category of speech that you have theright to proscribe, and then you draw gratuitous content-or viewpoint-based distinctions within it. However, Justice Stevens, I would say that itisn't alone in this Court's powerful condemnation ofviewpoint discrimination, and a key element to thisCourt's First Amendment history is that we don't want tocut matters too finely.QUESTION: What was involved in R.A.V.? Wasit -- was it activity? What kind of activity wasinvolved.MR. SMOLLA: Well, the -- the fact pattern inR.A.V. was identical to one of the fact patterns here. Itwas going on to the yard of an African-American family --QUESTION: Yes --MR. SMOLLA: -- and burning a cross in themiddle of the night, Your Honor. QUESTION: Yes, but what was made a crime wasthe burning it with a particular motivation, wasn't it?MR. SMOLLA: The -- the --QUESTION: It wasn't the mere act. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. SMOLLA: And -- and at the core of ourargument, Justice Scalia, is the claim that the concept ofviewpoint discrimination is, and ought to be broad enoughto encompass not only viewpoint discrimination articulatedlinguistically, the way that it was done in the statute inR.A.V., but also viewpoint discrimination through thesingling out of a symbol because symbols acquire meaningin precisely the same way that words acquire meaning.QUESTION: But words -- words are even more. I mean, your argument applies a fortiori to words. Right?MR. SMOLLA: It does, Justice Breyer. QUESTION: I guess you could have statutes, ifthe need were great, that forbid you from using certainwords with a certain intent like, for example,impersonating somebody or -- or counterfeiting, or -- I mean, if -- I've never heard of a case which said youcouldn't have a statute that in -- if the circumstanceswere right, forbid a person to use certain words.MR. SMOLLA: Justice Breyer, the -- the FirstAmendment speaks to this, and -- and it's --QUESTION: You can't have that? To have astatute that says --MR. SMOLLA: In fact --QUESTION: -- you cannot say I am the Presidentwith the intent to confuse people that I'm the President, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC I mean, that would be unconstitutional. MR. SMOLLA: The -- the normal -- the normallegislative process, Justice Breyer, is not to name thewords, not to put in the statute if you utter these --QUESTION: I know that's not normal. I -- I --that's why --MR. SMOLLA: -- but to describe -- but todescribe the conduct that you are attempting to get at,and then various combinations of words may fit into it. But let's take the example of naming a set ofwords. Even that is enormously problematic for FirstAmendment purposes. QUESTION: It is a crime to impersonate theGreat Seal of the United States --MR. SMOLLA: The --QUESTION: -- for purposes of obtaining money. It violates the First Amendment.MR. SMOLLA: But -- but the -- but the -- itcould, Your Honor, in -- in an appropriate circumstance. Take --QUESTION: In other words, all it -- all it --all you're saying is that heightened scrutiny applies.MR. SMOLLA: We are certainly saying that,and --QUESTION: That's all you're saying. You can't th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC possibly say more than that once you acknowledge that --that symbols can be proscribed. MR. SMOLLA: We -- we say that --QUESTION: And so the question before us iswhether burning a cross is such a terrorizing symbol inAmerican -- in American culture that even on the basis ofheightened scrutiny, it's okay to proscribe it. That'sbasically the --MR. SMOLLA: That is a -- that is a faircharacterization of the question. And -- and acceptingstrict scrutiny as the -- the test here, but strictscrutiny we would argue bumped up a bit in its intensityif this is viewpoint discrimination because --QUESTION: Well, why shouldn't we apply --MR. SMOLLA: -- this Court's been hostile to viewpoint --QUESTION: -- the O'Brien test? Why -- why sometougher test than that here? MR. SMOLLA: Your Honor, whether you applyO'Brien or strict scrutiny, it's our submission we winbecause when you get to the point at which you look atalternatives, there are content-neutral alternatives thatwork perfectly as well. But to answer directly your question, JusticeO'Connor, this Court has never allowed the use of the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC O'Brien test or any of the cousins of O'Brien, such as thesecondary effects doctrine or time, place, or mannerjurisprudence, when the harm that the government seeks toprevent is a harm that flows from the communicative impactof the expression. And there is no getting around the fact that theharm the government seeks to prevent here indubitablyflows only from the formation of this symbol. If I --QUESTION: So I would think then that if thetest suggests that you cannot have a statute which saysyou cannot use the words, I'll kill you, with an intent tokill somebody or threaten him, then there's somethingwrong with the test, not that there's something wrong withthe statute. That's --MR. SMOLLA: Your Honor, take the -- take the words -- take the words, if you do that again, I swearI'll kill you. Those words in a given context might bebreakfast banter, might be a joke.QUESTION: Correct, they might. MR. SMOLLA: It might be something a teacher --QUESTION: So what we put in the --MR. SMOLLA: -- says to a student, or might be atrue objective threat. And the -- a core element of thisCourt's commitment to freedom of speech has been toseparate abstract advocacy from palpable harm. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: -- fails to do that. QUESTION: If it's intended to be --QUESTION: -- the requirement of intent. QUESTION: -- a threat, you can get it. Right?MR. SMOLLA: Pardon me, Your Honor? QUESTION: You're saying if it's intended to bea threat, it can proscribed.MR. SMOLLA: If it meets the Watts true threatstest, it -- it is permissible. This law -- this law,however, is a fusion of true threat law, and a gratuitousaddition to the true threat law, cross-burning. The lawwould have been --QUESTION: Mr. -- Mr. Smolla --MR. SMOLLA: -- perfectly sufficient --QUESTION: -- on the question of perfectly sufficient laws, we have in the appendix to the UnitedStates brief several laws. They don't mentioncross-burnings. Are all those adequate under your test? Would they be constitutional? MR. SMOLLA: Yes, Justice Ginsburg. The Federalmodel, for example. There are a variety of Federal civilrights laws that punish conduct that the United Statesuses routinely to punish acts of cross-burning areperfectly permissible. And the difference, which is enormous for First th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Amendment purposes, is that both at the front end of thatlegislation and at the back end, there is breathing spacefor the First Amendment. It's important to remember thatour First Amendment jurisprudence is not just aboutdeliberate censorship and realized censorship. It is alsoabout possibility, about chilling effect, and aboutbreathing -- about breathing space.In effect, in Virginia --QUESTION: But this statute --MR. SMOLLA: -- you burn a cross at your peril.QUESTION: -- this statute incorporates theintent to intimidate feature. MR. SMOLLA: That is true, Justice O'Connor, buteven if it does, the learning of R.A.V., we'd submit, isthat that alone does not rest in the statute. QUESTION: Well, this --MR. SMOLLA: A law can't be half constitutional.QUESTION: -- this seems to fall within thefirst exception mentioned in R.A.V. This does addressconduct and with a certain intent. I mean, to applyR.A.V. is to extend R.A.V.MR. SMOLLA: Your Honor, it's our submissionthat in fact the two cases are identical, and the reasonthey don't seem identical perhaps is that it is harder --it is harder -- to locate the viewpoint and content th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC discrimination in our minds when we think of the burningcross than when we think of the language of R.A.V., whichtalked about anger or resentment on the basis of race,color, creed. And that may well be because of the kind ofPavlovian connection that you have identified where wefeel this loathing, and we feel this -- this generalizedfear when we see the sight of the burning cross.But our point is that ought never be sufficientbecause even if at a given moment in time, you could takesome symbol and freeze it and you could say at this secondthis symbol always seems associated with violence --imagine you had a terrorist group that was on a serialkilling spree and every time they committed an act ofviolence, they left a little calling card, and that symbolbecame a terribly frightening --QUESTION: Well, I guess what -- you have a veryinteresting point. And as I've been thinking about it, itseems to me that the -- a difficulty, possible difficultywith it is that the First Amendment doesn't protect words. It protects use of words for certain purposes. And itdoesn't protect, for example, a -- a symbol. It protectsa thing that counts as a symbol when used for symbolicpurposes.MR. SMOLLA: That's correct. QUESTION: So just as it doesn't protect the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC words, I will kill you, but protects them when used in aplay, but not when used as a threat --MR. SMOLLA: That is correct. QUESTION: -- so it doesn't protect the burningof the cross when used as a threat --MR. SMOLLA: That is correct. QUESTION: -- and not as a symbol.MR. SMOLLA: That is -- that --QUESTION: And now we have a statute that saysyou can use it as a symbol, but you can't use it as athreat. And therefore, the First Amendment doesn't apply.MR. SMOLLA: And -- and --QUESTION: Now, if that's the right analysis,then what's your response? MR. SMOLLA: Your Honor, that -- that everything you said up until the very end --(Laughter.) MR. SMOLLA: -- we would not accept.(Laughter.)MR. SMOLLA: I have a -- I have a hunch I haveto at least say that much. (Laughter.) MR. SMOLLA: And -- and, Justice Breyer, itcomes to this, that you cannot make the judgment that thislaw in its actual impact only penalizes those acts of th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC cross-burning that result in threat. It certainly chills,Justice Breyer, a wide range of expression, as it did inthis case, that cannot plausibly be understood as a threatof bodily harm in any realistic sense. Every time the Ku Klux Klan conducts one of itsrallies, at the height of its rally, it burns a largecross, and it plays a hymn such as the Old Rugged Cross,or Onward Christian Soldiers or Amazing Grace, and this isa ritual that it engages in. Now, it is inconceivable --there is absolutely nothing in this record that says thatevery time the Klan does that, that is, in fact, a truethreat.QUESTION: No, it isn't, so long as the Klandoesn't do it in -- in sight of a public highway, or onsomebody else's property, there's not a chance that this statute would apply to them. MR. SMOLLA: Your Honor, but the --QUESTION: They have to do in sight of a publichighway?MR. SMOLLA: The -- the -- all the statuterequires is that it be visible to others. And of course,the First Amendment value here in our view is that speech,particularly disturbing and offensive speech that runscontrary to our -- our mainstream values that the majorityof us embrace, is ineffective unless it is put out to the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC world where others can see it. And as Justice Brandeis said in Whitney versusCalifornia in his concurring opinion, you don't make theworld safer by driving the speech of hate groups such asthe Ku Klux Klan underground. In many societies in thisworld, you can ban racial supremacist groups. QUESTION: I want you just to address -- butit's hard for you because you have clients with differentinterests here perhaps. But -- but if -- if it's rightthat you can ban speech, i.e., the use of words forpurposes of threatening people with bodily harm, which Ithink we can, then what about this prima facieprohibition? The way I was thinking about it, to get you torespond, is if you did have a statute that was constitutional that said it is a crime to use the words, Iwill kill you, with the intent to threaten someone withdeath. That statute might go on to say, and the jury mayinfer from the use of the words themselves on a particularoccasion that the threat existed. And I think --MR. SMOLLA: And I accept that, Your Honor. QUESTION: -- if all that's true, then I guessthat the -- the prima facie presumption here is nodifferent. It says the jury may infer from the -- theburning cross on a particular occasion, just like the use th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC of the words, I kill you, on a particular occasion --MR. SMOLLA: There's a world of difference, YourHonor, and the difference is that the words, I will killyou, are words of threat that have no additionalemanations. They have no additional secondary meaning inthis society either as the symbol of a group, or as thesymbol of an idea such as bigotry. They partake of thesame rationale, the same defining parameters that allowyou to attack threats in the first instance. Whereas the burning cross -- the burning cross,whether it's the th century burning cross before theKlan began, or today, introduces a symbol -- first of all,just a cross before we get to the burning part, a symbolthat you must concede is one of the most powerfulreligious symbols in -- in human history. It is the -- itis the symbol of Christianity, the symbol of thecrucifixion of Christ. When the cross is burned, in muchthe same way as when the flag is burned, undoubtedly theburner is playing on that underlying positive repositoryof meaning to make the intense negative point, often apoint that strikes as horrible and as evil and disgusting,but that's --QUESTION: Mr. Smolla --MR. SMOLLA: -- what the person is trying to do.QUESTION: -- there's a huge difference between th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC a flag and a burning cross, and it's been pointed out inthe briefs. The flag is a symbol of our government, andone of the things about free speech is we can criticizethe President, the Supreme Court, anybody, and feeltotally free about doing that. It's the symbol ofgovernment.But the cross is not attacking the government. It's attacking people, threatening their lives and limbs. And so I don't -- I think you have to separate the symbolthat is the burning cross from other symbols that arecritical of government, but that don't -- that aren't athreat to personal safety. MR. SMOLLA: Justice Ginsburg, I only partiallyaccept that -- that dichotomy. In fact, when the Klanengages in cross-burning, as it did in Brandenburg versus Ohio, and as it did here, it is -- it is a melange ofmessages. Yes, to some degree, it is a horizontal messageof hate speech, the Klan members attacking Jews andCatholics and African-Americans and all of the variouspeople that have been the -- the point of its hatred overthe years. But it's also engaged in dissent and in apolitical message. If you remember in Brandenburg versusOhio, Brandenburg says if the Congress doesn't changethings, some revenges will have to be taken. In this th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC case, President Clinton was talked about by the Klanmembers. Hillary Clinton was talked about by the Klanmembers. Racial preferences and the idea that the --where they're using taxes to support minority groups. There is a jumble of political anger, of --QUESTION: Mr. Smolla, I would -- I would liketo take exception to your suggestion in response toJustice Breyer that the words, I will kill you, alwayshave a threatening meaning.MR. SMOLLA: They may not, Justice Stevens. QUESTION: I think they're often used in casualconversation without any such threatening meaning at all.MR. SMOLLA: Justice Stevens, I accept that. But I -- I'm merely making the argument that you can fit aphrase such as the words, I will kill you, within the exceptions to R.A.V. in a way that you cannot fitcross-burning within the exceptions to R.A.V. orflag-burning within the exceptions to R.A.V. becausecross- and flag-burning and any symbol, the burning of theStar of David, the swastika -- Virginia has a lawvirtually identical to the cross-burning law that singlesout the swastika. The -- you could -- you can go throughthe universe of symbols --QUESTION: Your argument is not the same with --I mean, it's an -- your argument, I take it, is that if th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC you actually have a statute that criminalizes the use ofparticular words, or -- or the burning of a -- of asymbol, even if you qualify that by saying you -- it'scriminal to use them for certain purposes, you'vemonopolized those words because people who are using themfrom different purposes will be afraid to use them.MR. SMOLLA: And chilled --QUESTION: And then they can't express what theywant even though that expression is not to hurt someone.MR. SMOLLA: And not merely monopolize,Justice Breyer, but --QUESTION: That's right, yes.MR. SMOLLA: But chilled the use of thatcombination of words or chilled the use of that symbol --QUESTION: Yes. All right. I see your point.MR. SMOLLA: So that in effect it becomes --QUESTION: That -- that seems to give them afree ride when they really want to intimidate and -- andthreaten.MR. SMOLLA: Justice Kennedy, there's no freeride if the government employs content-neutralalternatives, which really --QUESTION: Well, why isn't -- why can't we saythere's no three -- free ride when the government imposesscienter? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. SMOLLA: Your Honor, because the FirstAmendment requires that we flip the question. It is notwhy can't the government single out this particular formof expression. It is why do you need to. And if you haveno need to --QUESTION: Wait, wait, wait. I think -- I don'tthink our cases say you have to use the least restrictivealternative. I'm sure there are other ways of getting atthe person who brandishes an automatic weapon, but surelyyou can make brandishing an automatic weapon a crime --MR. SMOLLA: Your Honor --QUESTION: -- even though there are other waysyou could get at it. MR. SMOLLA: Justice Scalia, you do not need touse the least restrictive alternative when you are not regulating a fundamental right, or engaged in a suspectclassification. QUESTION: A symbol -- I mean, that's a symboltoo. Brandishing a weapon is a symbol just as burning across is a symbol.MR. SMOLLA: Except, Your Honor, under -- underthe Brandenburg test -- excuse me -- under the O'Brientest, the government has functional elements of -- of --that relate to the weapon that allow it to cite thingsutterly unrelated to the content of expression that th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC empower it to say you may not -- you may not brandish aweapon. about.QUESTION: I don't know what you're talkingMR. SMOLLA: That -- that it's -- it's like thedifference, Justice Scalia, between burning a draft cardand burning a cross or burning a flag, that -- that thereason O'Brien -- the draft card case -- allowed thegovernment to punish burning the draft card was that thedraft card had a functional purpose -- the administrationof the Selective Service System -- that had nothing to dowith what was being expressed when one burned the draftcard.The gun is like that. When the government saysyou may not threaten someone by brandishing a gun, there is a functional element to the gun. It's a weapon thatthe government can cite as its basis. But a symbol only has symbolic meaning.QUESTION: Okay, but --QUESTION: It's an unloaded gun. This is anunloaded gun that's being brandished. (Laughter.) QUESTION: So once it's unloaded, it's nothingbut a symbol. MR. SMOLLA: It is -- it is -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: It is nothing but a symbol. MR. SMOLLA: It is -- it's still -- it's still aweapon, Your Honor, and -- and it is giganticallydifferent from a cross. If -- if I -- take a torch. What would be thedifference between brandishing a torch and brandishing across? If I -- if I take two wooden sticks --QUESTION: years -- years of history.(Laughter.) MR. SMOLLA: Exactly, Justice Kennedy, that'sthe difference. And that years of history is on theside of freedom of speech, that it is years of historythat a particular group has -- has capitalized on thisparticular ritual to make not only points that arethreatening, but to advance their agenda. QUESTION: All right. We'll -- we'll accept --I mean, I think we accept that, but we -- our problem isthat the years have also added something else, andthat is the kind of specific Pavlovian quality that Ispoke of. And if that is giving us difficulty in decidingwhether we should classify this in the O'Brien direction,or the flag direction, what's the -- what's the -- ineffect, the tie-breaker? MR. SMOLLA: Your Honor, I think the tie-breakeris what I've kept coming back to a number of times, which th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC is really would there be any fall-off throughcontent-neutral alternatives, and if there would not beany fall-off through content-neutral alternatives, thenerr on the side of freedom of speech. Imagine that you have two rallies going onside-by-side. The -- the Klan is going to make -- engagein a rally, and then a group that wants to counter theKlan's message, a Christian group, has a counter-rally ina public forum in Richmond. And imagine that at theheight of those two rallies, the Klan ignites its cross. Under this statute, the Klan can be prosecuted, the othergroup cannot. It's --QUESTION: Mr. Smolla, I thought that --QUESTION: What if the other group all arebrandishing guns as Justice Scalia said? (Laughter.) MR. SMOLLA: Then -- then round them up, YourHonor. (Laughter.) QUESTION: I thought Mr. Hurd told us that inthe Brandenburg case, where it was just burned at a rallyas part of the ceremony, that's not what this statute isgetting at. It's only when it's used as a signal ofintimidation, and that what sparked this particularcross-burning at this rally -- this was no ordinary rally. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC This was in response to something that the Klan opposed.MR. SMOLLA: And -- and I think, JusticeGinsburg, again to think about this in content-neutralterms, the First Amendment would not forbid the governmentcharging the Klan in the case that we have with anordinary, run-of-the-mill threat law, or a hate crime law,such as a bias enhancement statute, and then introducingthe fact that the cross was burned as evidence of thethreat, and as part of the emotional atmospheric of thecase to try to convince a jury of the heinousness and theseriousness of the threat. That was approved by this Court in Wisconsinversus Mitchell, and it may seem not worth the candle. Itmay seem that it's just a way to get to the same resultthrough some other formality, but our position is that that is enormous for First Amendment purposes. It is thecentral divide of modern First Amendment law in which theCourt insists that you use content-neutral alternativeswhen you can accomplish the governmental ends equally wellthrough them. Thank you, Your Honor. QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. Smolla.Mr. Hurd, you have minutes in which to discussall these hypotheticals. (Laughter.) th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF WILLIAM H. HURDON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERMR. HURD: Very briefly. Justice Souter, the tie-breaker is the intent tointimidate which is in our statute. If there's no intentto intimidate, there's no violation here. Opposing counsel's problem is how does the Klango out in public and burn a cross and have it viewed notas its common, ordinary meaning backed up by years ofhistory. Well, one thing they could do is not talk aboutshooting blacks with a ./.. That might suggestthere's no intent to intimidate. Opposing counsel suggests that there should be abroader law. Well, Congress could pass a broader law, onethat didn't focus on threats against the President, one that focused on threats against any Federal employee, butthis Court has said a broader law is not needed becausethreats against the President are especially problematic.So is cross-burning. It is not just hatespeech. It doesn't just say I don't like you because youare black. In the hands of the Klan, the message is thelaw cannot help you if you're black or Catholic or Jewishor foreign-born, or we just don't like you, and if you tryto live your life as a free American, we are going to killyou. That is the message of cross-burning backed up by th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC years of history. That's why it is especiallyvirulent. And that's why under R.A.V., this Court canallow us to proscribe it without having to pass any otherlaw, or pretend it is the same as something quitedifferent than what it is. We have not interfered with freedom of speech. We have not tried to suppress any idea. All we have triedto do is to protect freedom from fear for all of ourcitizens by guarding against this especially virulent formof intimidation. We ask that the decision below be reversed andthe statute upheld. Thank you. JUSTICE STEVENS: Thank you, Mr. Hurd. The case is submitted.(Whereupon, at : a.m., the case in the above-entitled matter was submitted.) th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC 