 IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XUNITED STATES, Petitioner ::v. : No. -ANGELA RUIZ. :- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XWashington, D.C.Wednesday, April , The above-entitled matter came on for oralargument before the Supreme Court of the United States at: a.m.APPEARANCES:THEODORE B. OLSON, ESQ., Solicitor General, Department ofJustice, Washington, D.C.; on behalf of thePetitioner.STEVEN F. HUBACHEK, ESQ., San Diego, California; on behalfof the Respondent. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC C O N T E N T SORAL ARGUMENT OF THEODORE B. OLSON, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioner STEVEN F. HUBACHEK, ESQ.On behalf of the Respondent REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OFTHEODORE B. OLSON, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioner PAGE th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC P R O C E E D I N G S(: a.m.)CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: We'll hear -- we'llhear argument next in No. -, the United Statesagainst Ruiz.General Olson.ORAL ARGUMENT OF THEODORE B. OLSONON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERMR. OLSON: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice, andmay it please the Court:The Ninth Circuit has created a newconstitutional rule for guilty pleas that is neitherrequired by the Constitution nor warranted by this Court'sprevious decisions. Its inevitable effect would be tocomplicate and expose to collateral attack confessions ofguilt which -- which account for approximately percentof all convictions in the Federal system and to stifle themarket for plea bargains, which this Court has describedas an essential component of the administration ofjustice.The Ninth Circuit held that an accused cannotenter a valid guilty plea unless he is first given allevidence in the prosecutor's possession which would have areasonable probability of discouraging him from pleadingguilty. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC The Ninth Circuit's rule, new rule, is not alogical extension of the Brady -- Brady v. Maryland, whichis premised on concern over the constitutional fairness ofcriminal trials. Brady and its progeny require disclosureonly when necessary to ensure a fair trial. In fact, inBrady itself, the Court was explicit to point out that it-- that decision was premised on the avoidance of anunfair trial to the accused. The subsequent cases, whichhave expanded upon or interpreted or explained Brady, havebeen even more specific with respect to the limitations onthe scope of Brady.In U.S. v. Agurs, the Court said the prosecutorwill not have violated his constitutional duty unless hisomission is of sufficient significance to result in thedenial of a fair trial. Something similar was said in U.S. v. Bagley. Brady's purpose is not to displace the adversary system asthe primary means by which truth is uncovered. If it didnot deprive a defendant of a fair trial, there is noconstitutional violation. QUESTION: Can we get to your main argumentabout Brady, that is, Brady in all its aspects is a trialright, not a pretrial right, in view of the plea agreementin this case, which represents that you have alreadyturned over the prime Brady material and the only question th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC is the impeaching material?MR. OLSON: Yes, Justice Ginsburg. Theagreement to which Justice Ginsburg is referring is setout -- the two paragraphs of that agreement --QUESTION: a and a of the petition for cert.MR. OLSON: Yes, and I also have it on -- onpage of the joint appendix. QUESTION: What -- what --MR. OLSON: Page of the joint appendix. It'sthe --QUESTION: -- the petition.MR. OLSON: It's -- it's on page a of thepetition -- of the appendix to the petition forcertiorari. QUESTION: It's the Government's representationthat any information establishing the factual innocence ofthe defendant known to the prosecutor has been turned overto the defendant. And so my question is, isn't that, atleast in this case, a moot issue? You do have thequestion about the impeaching material.MR. OLSON: The answer to that, JusticeGinsburg, is that both in the Sanchez decision and in thiscase, the Ruiz decision, the Ninth Circuit went furtherand made it clear that it was applying the rule that itapplied in this case to all exculpatory material which, if th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC known to the defendant, might cause the defendant not toplead guilty. Now, the undertaking that was made in theparticular proposed agreement here went a little bitfurther in the direction of the defendant, which oftenhappens. Prosecutors frequently will decide, for onereason or another, to give exculpatory information of somesort to a defendant. But the Ninth Circuit went furtherthan that and made it clear that the rule that it wasenunciating applied to all exculpatory material, includingimpeachment material, and that is the rule that's going tobe applicable in the Ninth Circuit.So, even if this Court determined to limit itsdecision to the -- the narrower scope, as articulated inthe second paragraph of that proposed agreement, we'd beback here next year because it's quite clear what theNinth Circuit intends to do with its rule. QUESTION: I -- I don't --QUESTION: The statement referred to on pagea, the Government represents -- that -- that was notpursuant to any court order, I take it, the Governmentturning that over? MR. OLSON: No, it was not, Mr. Chief Justice. This was a -- simply a -- a draft agreement which was, infact, prepared in response -- as a result of and inresponse to the earlier Sanchez decision, which -- which th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC the Ninth Circuit had articulated. This was an effort bythe prosecutor --QUESTION: I was -- I was going to ask why --why is that second paragraph there? It wouldn't haveoccurred to me to --MR. OLSON: It's -- it's not in the record,Justice Scalia, but it's my understanding that it'ssomething that is -- is developed particularly to dealwith the Sanchez case which the Ninth Circuit had alreadydecided, and the presumption that the Ninth -- the NinthCircuit's Sanchez decision went so far and not as far asthe -- that that covered the impeachment material, but notother exculpatory material in the reverse.So, however inartful this is, it was not inresponse, Mr. Chief Justice, to a court order or any otherlegal requirement, nor does it purport to articulate whatthe law is. It purports to undertake what the prosecutorvoluntarily was willing to do with respect to thisparticular form of plea --QUESTION: Has this been used throughout thecountry --MR. OLSON: No. QUESTION: -- or just --MR. OLSON: This is -- this was developed justin the San Diego -- the Southern District of California, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC although other versions in other places, but there's nostandard national form for plea agreements.QUESTION: I -- I know what you'd like is thatwe reach the question of this impeachment material and saythere is no such right in a -- in a plea agreementcontext. But how would I even get there? They only getan appeal here if there's a violation of law. I neverheard of a violation of law consisting of a judge refusingto depart.And then assuming that there is some violationof law in his refusal to depart, which I thought wasdiscretionary, how could he possibly depart? And this isimportant to you. Because I don't see at the moment howit would ever be a justification to depart, that adefendant has entered into this program. I mean, I can'tfind anything in the guidelines where it says "you candepart for a reason such as," and then fill in the contentof the program to get a two-level departure.So, how -- how do we get to your issue and whatdo I do about those two things which seem tremendousblocks? MR. OLSON: The Ninth Circuit -- let me answerthe jurisdictional point first. The Ninth Circuitperceived that it had jurisdiction under U.S.C.(a)(). th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: That's violation of law.MR. OLSON: A -- that the sentence was imposedor the --QUESTION: Yes, in violation of law. So, Iwould ask them. I'd say, what law? MR. OLSON: And -- and that the Ninth Circuitperceived that the district court felt that it was barredby law from departing --QUESTION: There isn't much I can find in thisrecord that says that. MR. OLSON: And -- and that the Ninth Circuitfelt that because this was a constitutional right that thedefendant was -- had that was being withheld from thedefendant because of the -- of the circumstances of thiscase, that the -- the district court erroneously presumedthat it was prevented from going in a -- in a directionthat the Ninth Circuit felt that it could go. And I think that then ties in with your second-- your second question with respect to the sentencingguidelines and section K. The -- the court felt -- theNinth Circuit felt -- and it's not very clear, but -- and-- and the Government is not objecting to the -- the waythe Ninth Circuit exercised jurisdiction at this point andis not opposing the court's decision with respect tojurisdiction at this point. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC The Ninth Circuit felt that under section K ofthe sentencing guidelines, this would be a -- mitigate --the -- the entry into the so-called fast track program wasa mitigating circumstance of a kind or a degree notadequately taken into account by the guidelines informulating the guidelines. It should result in asentence different --QUESTION: Those are supposed to be individualthings. I mean, in other words --MR. OLSON: Well, but -- yes.QUESTION: -- I -- I see -- normally you couldsay, okay, the Government doesn't oppose it. We'll get tothe main issue. But these look like tremendousjurisdictional blocks to me. MR. OLSON: It -- it -- I think the answer tothat latter point with respect to the individualconsideration is covered by the fact that this particularprogram, under the circumstances of this district, are --they may be -- it may be frequently occurring, but it'sindividualistic in the sense that entering into thisprogram alleviates a substantial amount of work and -- andprovides a substantial benefit to the prosecutor in thatdistrict without which the prosecutor may not be able toenforce the law on all of the responsibilities of the law.This is one of the most busy districts of the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC United States because of the tremendous number ofnarcotics crimes coming in across the border, multipliedin a sense by the number of immigration violations thattake place. So that this was an individualizedcircumstance in that district.Now, one could quibble about the appropriatenessof that, but that's how the Ninth Circuit perceived it. It perceived that it had jurisdiction on that basis, andwe're not objecting to it. It seems clear that not only, therefore, thatnot -- that this right is not required by or implicitwithin Brady, but that the language of the Court'sdecisions interpreting Brady make it clear that Brady isnot supposed to go that far, that it only has to do withthe rights at -- at trial. Furthermore, the solution that the Ninth Circuitproposed with respect to this is both overly broad andunderly inclusive. If the Court was concerned, as it saidit was and as the respondent contends it should be, withthe potential of innocent persons pleading guilty, thetest itself, which is set out in the court's -- the -- theNinth Circuit's opinion on page -- I think it's a of theappendix to the petition for certiorari. About midwaythrough the page, the court says, the evidence is materialunder the test announced in this case if there is a th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC reasonable probability that but for the failure todisclose the Brady material, the defendant would haverefused to plead and would have gone to trial.In other words, the test is not couched in termsof the potential innocence of the defendant or the riskthat a defendant was -- was innocent. It's couched interms of the tactical decision a defendant might make withrespect to whether or not to go trial. QUESTION: He should know what the house oddsare before he -- before he rolls the dice by pleadingguilty. MR. OLSON: Precisely. In fact --QUESTION: Which is sort of a different conceptfrom -- from what Brady was about. MR. OLSON: Exactly, Justice Scalia. In fact,this Court has frequently said that -- that there are lotsof risks involved in the -- in the defense of a case, acriminal case, and -- and there are risks and benefits andburdens and evaluations that must be taken intoconsideration.QUESTION: What is the Government's obligationwith respect to advising the defendant or the court thatthe elements of an offense have -- have been committed? I-- in all these hypotheticals, the cocaine supposedly --there was supposed to be cocaine. It's really talcum th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC powder or something, and the Government knows that. What-- is this all taken care by rule or --MR. OLSON: Well, I think it's taken care of inseveral ways. If the -- the Constitution gives thedefendant a right to trial or a right to confrontwitnesses, a right to counsel, reasonably competent,informed counsel. Rule of the Federal Rules ofCriminal Procedure require a relatively exhaustiveprocedure where the court makes sure that the guilty pleais voluntary and intelligent and that the elements of thecrime, of course, are involved in whether or not --QUESTION: Well, does the Government have tohave a good faith belief that an offense has beencommitted? Is there -- is there some standard that bindsthe prosecution?MR. OLSON: The standard -- the standards forprosecutors in the United States -- for the United Statesare set forth in the -- the U.S. Attorneys Manual. Itrequires prosecutors not to bring a case unless theybelieve in good faith that there is a reasonable basis forthe case that's being brought, in fact a reasonable basisfor believing that there could be a conviction based uponevidence beyond a reasonable doubt. That's not aconstitutional standard, Justice Kennedy.The constitutional standard is set forth in the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC -- this Court's decisions with respect to the right tocounsel, the right to trial, the right to intelligentinformation with respect to that.Rule , which is a -- which is a joint productof the courts and the -- and the legislature, sets outelaborate procedures pursuant to which a Federal judgewill inquire with respect to the basis for the plea,explain the rights that the defendant has violated, andspecifically requires the Federal court to find thatthere's a factual basis for the plea.Now, so that what I was saying was that is theremedy, the so-called remedy, that the Ninth Circuit hascome up -- is -- is under-inclusive to the extent that ifit's concerned about -- it's over-inclusive to the extentthat it's concerned about innocent people pleading guiltybecause it doesn't go to the -- the factual innocent. Itgoes to the tactical decisions, the rolling of the dice,with respect to what are the chances of winning or losingin court. QUESTION: Is this true, Mr. Solicitor General,that the rolling of the dice concept can apply to aninnocent defendant as well? Supposing the -- thedefendant and his lawyer know there are three eyewitnesseswho were going to identify him. They also know he wasn'tthere, but there was somebody there who looks a lot like th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC him. And so they've got a choice of either taking thechance of getting acquitted, in the face of that evidenceand based on their own denial -- he doesn't have an alibi-- and if he gets convicted, he has a very long sentence. And he gets an offer of a plea bargain, a very shortsentence. I don't suppose there's anything unethicalabout the lawyer trying to figure out what the odds are. MR. OLSON: Well, no, there's nothing unethicalabout the lawyer trying to figure out what the odds are. In fact, rule of the Federal Rules of CriminalProcedure give fairly elaborate rights of discovery to thedefendant's counsel. And at that plea agreement, thejudge will inquire with respect to whether there's afactual basis for the plea agreement.In fact, the judge in this case specificallyaddressed that question to the defendant, asked thedefendant is it, indeed, true -- asked the defendant andthen the counsel interceded and said, yes, she wasbringing in her car -- pounds of marijuana. Andthen the judge turned to the defendant and said, is thattrue? And the defendant said, yes, I knew that it was --QUESTION: What is the lawyer -- what kind ofadvice is the lawyer to give? Hypothetically we have aninnocent client who has a very severe risk of beingconvicted, and the lawyer would tell him there's going to th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC be a plea colloquy here, and if you don't acknowledgethis, the plea bargain will go down the drain. Now, Iguess he shouldn't tell him what -- I don't know exactlywhat the lawyer is supposed to do there. MR. OLSON: Well, I don't -- I'm not sureeither. It would all depend upon the circumstance. Thereis -- there is a possibility that this Court's recognizedin the Alford decision a possibility of making a pleawhich is -- which is not incompatible with a defendant'sassertion of innocence. But I think that in most casesthe defendant is the one who will know more than anyone,the prosecutor or anyone else, whether the defendant isguilty. QUESTION: Right, but I'm assuming a case inwhich the defendant knows he's not guilty, andnevertheless, there's a risk that, because the odds are soheavy if you get convicted, you go away for years. Ifyou have a -month plea bargain, you may want to not takethe chance. MR. OLSON: Well, I understand that, JusticeStevens. That may happen in a particular case. ThisCourt said in Bagley that Brady's primary purpose is notto -- Brady's purpose is not to displace the adversarysystem as the primary means by which truth is -- as theprimary means by which truth is uncovered. And I think th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC that the answer to your question is that this system, nosystem is perfect or ever will be perfect, but we do havea panoply of constitutional rights. We insist that thedefendant be adequately counseled. We insist that thejudge through rule -- through rule --QUESTION: So that in effect you're saying theremay be a hypothetical situation out there, but we've gotmillions of cases. Also, we've got to balance the two,one against the other.MR. OLSON: Absolutely. And I must -- I mustsay that with respect to -- we're not talking about thatcase here. We're talking about a blanket rule which wouldapply in -- you know, ,-some guilty pleas in theFederal system every year. QUESTION: Well, the McMann and Brady cases toosaid that a defendant may have to make some hard choices.MR. OLSON: The Court said that explicitly.QUESTION: Well, if we're talking aboutbalancing and basic fairness, I guess their argument wouldbe with , cases going -- that's percent or percent of all people plead guilty. Most of those aredrug crimes. When the prosecutor sits there with a drugcrime, he says, you plead guilty to a telephone count,it's months, or I bring you to a mandatory minimumcharge in trial and it's a minimum of years. And under th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC those circumstances, the person is quite tempted to pleadguilty irrespective of the facts. And therefore, itbalances. As you were saying, it balances the system andit makes it somewhat more fair in that mine run situationto understand what are the chances of being convicted if Ido go to trial. MR. OLSON: Well --QUESTION: That would be the argument, I think,the other way in terms of fundamental fairness. MR. OLSON: And I would answer that in two ways. In the first place, I think the Chief Justice answered itby referring to the Brady v. United States case.QUESTION: So, you'd have to say that you'reright, that that isn't what Brady said. But in taking --taking into account the reality of the criminal justicesystem, where percent of the people plead guilty, andthe prosecutor is armed with this tremendous don't pleadguilty or else sentencing system, that this creates a kindof basic balance that -- in terms of fairness -- I'mtrying to get the argument out. MR. OLSON: I understand, Justice Breyer, Iunderstand what you're saying. And there's a certain --there's a certain logic to it. But if that is -- if thatwas the case, then the Ninth Circuit's rule is under-inclusive because if the defendant really wants to know th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC what the best chances are, rather than the exculpatorymaterial or the impeachment material, what he is going towant to know is the inculpatory material. And you madethe point about the other -- other prosecutions that arebeing held over the defendant's head. He's going to wantto know what -- well, what evidence do they have on thegreater offense that they're about to charge me with,because I'm going to take my chances now and plead to thislesser included offense.So, if the Ninth Circuit wanted to accomplishwhat you're talking about as the thrust of your question,it would have gone -- and I suspect that it will --QUESTION: Well, you -- you wouldn't want it togo further, would -- would you, General Olson? You -- youwould not want us to adopt a rule that encourages -- thatenables innocent people to more intelligently plead guiltywhen they're innocent? MR. OLSON: No. I'm not --QUESTION: I mean, it seems to me we should doeverything to discourage people who are innocent frompleading guilty. MR. OLSON: I -- I --QUESTION: What kind of a legal system is thiswhere we're going to design our rules to encourage guiltypeople to plead -- or innocent people to plead guilty? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC It's crazy. MR. OLSON: This Court -- this Court has saidthat it's perfectly appropriate in the adversarial systemfor the prosecutor to find legitimate ways to encourageguilty defendants to plead guilty. Now, we -- you're absolutely right. It's --QUESTION: We're worrying here about innocentpeople, and we're trying to encourage them to plead guiltyso that -- if they know everything about what theGovernment has. I mean, there's something wrong with alegal system that -- that --MR. OLSON: But there's --QUESTION: -- is even contemplating such --MR. OLSON: -- Justice Scalia --QUESTION: -- such action, it seems to me. MR. OLSON: -- nothing in this case thatinvolves that issue at all. We have a guilty defendantwho has acknowledged under oath -- I think it was underoath. Usually it is, in the Federal court systems -- thatthis person was guilty. So, you are faced with thepossibility of drafting a rule -- or the Ninth Circuitdrafted a rule for a hypothetical situation not involvingthe case before it, which was over-inclusive because itincludes the vast number of people that are indeed guilty,and under-inclusive because it doesn't provide a remedy -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC the best remedy which we would definitely not encourage,but I would suggest would be the next step, possibly fromthe same circuit, with respect to giving additionalinformation.And it would be inconsistent not only with that,but it would be inconsistent with what this Court has saidover and over again with respect to the value of competentcounsel, the fact that certain chances have to be taken,that a defendant is not entitled to set aside a pleabecause he may have misconstrued the weight or balance ofthe prosecution's case, or there may have been mistakes oflaw. In one -- in -- in Brady v. the United States, infact, it was a misconstruction of whether or not thedefendant would -- could be -- could be put to death ifthe defendant went to trial. So, this Court hasrecognized that there are those balances in the system. But what the -- what we urge upon the Court isthat there are so many protections, including thediscovery right, the fairly exhaustive --QUESTION: The discovery right would cover --you did say there were some things that a defendantperhaps would not know, and one of them you mentioned inyour -- in your brief is if you rob a bank and you don'tknow whether it's FDIC insured. That kind of information. How would that -- how would that come out pretrial? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. OLSON: That would -- that would come outthrough rule of the Federal Rules of CriminalProcedure, which is set out in the appendix, I think a toa, of our brief on the merits. The defendant is givenpretrial considerable discovery rights to find out thosesorts of things, and if the defendant is not sure and,after consultation with his counsel, wishes to go totrial, there's -- the Brady rights do kick in at anappropriate time to allow the defendant to prepare fortrial. What I'm saying is that -- that the combinationof the constitutional rights to trial and -- andconfrontation, the constitutional rights to counsel, the-- the statutory rights to discovery, the statutoryobligations on a judge to make sure there's a factualbasis for the guilty plea, the obligations -- and we haveto assume under -- as this Court suggested in theMezzanatto case, a -- a good faith behavior by our publicofficials that a prosecutor is not going to withholdevidence in -- on -- where it knows that the -- this is aninnocent defendant. Those are ample assurances,especially in the context, as this Court has said over andover again, that the best person to know whether there's afactual basis for a plea of guilty is the defendanthimself or herself. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC I will say one more thing that is -- that seemsto me important with respect to the -- this -- the posturein which this case comes. If this Court were to determinethat there is a constitutional right -- and we think thatneither this Court's decisions nor the Constitution wouldlead the Court to that conclusion -- the constitutionalright could be waived. The Ninth Circuit said that adefendant cannot, even if the defendant wanted to, pleadguilty. Knowing that the defendant was guilty, thedefendant could not waive the right. Now, that has several implications. It -- itcreates problems for the criminal justice system. TheBrady -- the Brady right that the Ninth Circuit wouldengraft on the system here would force prosecutors todevelop cases and use resources at the defendant'sinitiative, on the defendant's time table. It creates --turns Brady -- the right, from a fair trial right into afair trial preparation right.With respect to certain types of cases, it wouldcompromise conspiracy cases, racketeering cases, organizedcrime drug cases, white collar cases where there may besubstantial warehouses full of documents. In other words,many prosecutors won't be preparing their case fordetermining what witnesses they're going to use untilthey're ready to go to trial. Once they -- if they had to th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC disclose this information on the defendant's time table,which the defendant -- if this rule were adopted by thisCourt, the first thing a defendant would do is offer --say, "I'm thinking about pleading guilty. Give meeverything in your files." Now, a prosecutor in complicated cases is not goingto want to do that and -- and will refuse to engage inthat process or will -- once -- once it does so, there'sno more incentive for the -- for the prosecutor to enterinto the plea bargaining process. So, it could bedamaging to the benefits of the defendants over and overagain that's received the benefits of the plea bargainingsystem, which this Court has sanctioned and encouraged. QUESTION: I don't want to cut into your -- yourreserve time. Just one question. If you prevail in thiscase, what happens? Does she get a longer supervised timeof relief? Or is there anything that's still live in thiscase as to this defendant? MR. OLSON: The --she -- she --QUESTION: Or has she served the full timeanyway?MR. OLSON: -- she -- I don't -- I don't knowwhether she's served the entire -- the sentence that wasgiven to her was months in incarceration and a -month-- a -year -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: years. MR. OLSON: -- probationary period. I thinkthat that would continue to go on. That was at the verylow range, low end of the guideline sentence. QUESTION: So there is still some -- somethingat stake here?MR. OLSON: Yes, I believe so, Justice Kennedy,but I'm not sure, percent sure, factually I know theanswer to that. If I may reserve the balance of my time.QUESTION: Very well, General Olson.Mr. Hubachek, we'll hear from you. ORAL ARGUMENT OF STEVEN F. HUBACHEKON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTMR. HUBACHEK: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court:The Due Process Clause requires the disclosureof materials --QUESTION: Before you get going, is the casemoot? Is there something left on the -year probationperiod? MR. HUBACHEK: Yes, there is, Justice O'Connor.QUESTION: Thank you. MR. HUBACHEK: Now, the -- the disclosure ofmaterial exculpatory information is essential to ensure th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC the accuracy of criminal convictions. And Ake indicatesthere's a societal and individual interest in the accuracyof such convictions that's paramount. The system that we have now, as has beendiscussed already this morning funnels cases into pleanegotiations, and the -- the Court has said that's not abad thing, but it -- still, it funnels everybody, theguilty and the innocent, into the same sort of result. Innocent people are provided the same substantial andlegitimate incentives to plead guilty as guilty peopleare.And if I could return to Justice --QUESTION: No. I -- I object to that. I -- Idon't think our system ever encourages or, indeed, evenpermits an innocent person to plead guilty. Our rulesrequire the judge to -- to interrogate the person pleadingguilty to make sure that, indeed, the person is guilty. There is nothing in our system that encourages or evenallows an innocent person to -- to plead guilty. And Iwould be horrified if -- if there were something likethat.MR. HUBACHEK: Well, Justice Scalia, the -- thesystem does not -- first of all, I guess the firstprotection would be a rule type factual basis. That'snot required in every case. In fact, the Fifth Circuit th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC cases that the Solicitor General relies upon, both ofthose were nolo or Alford type pleas. So, there was nofactual basis provided at all in those cases. Individualswho don't know whether they're innocent or guilty -- theydon't have to provide a factual basis that's -- that'sincorrect or false.QUESTION: How many individuals don't knowwhether they're innocent or guilty?MR. HUBACHEK: Your Honor, there are some. I've --QUESTION: I'm sure there may be rare cases, butit -- it is rare. Is it not? MR. HUBACHEK: I'm sure that it's nottremendously common, but the important thing is -- is thatindividuals who are innocent do receive the sameincentives to plead guilty. And I've cited some casesfrom various State courts at pages to of the briefwhere individuals pled guilty where substantial materialexculpatory evidence existed, several cases like JusticeStevens' hypothetical involving identification testimonywhere an individual was charged with an offense and wastold that there had been an identification made by whatappeared to be an otherwise unimpeachable witness --QUESTION: So -- so that's what your case comesdown to? You want us to facilitate the pleading of guilty th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC by innocent people. You -- you want us to set up a systemthat will make -- will make that a more intelligentdecision so that we can put in jail a lot of people whoplead guilty even though they're innocent because it's agood deal for them.MR. HUBACHEK: No, Your Honor, not -- not atall. I --QUESTION: I thought that's what you're saying. I don't know what other -- for the guilty person, you'renot worried about it. You're -- you're asserting therights of the innocent.MR. HUBACHEK: Right. It's the innocent personwho needs to receive this --QUESTION: Who needs to be able to plead guiltyso he'll -- he'll serve a sentence that he doesn'tdeserve.MR. HUBACHEK: Well, Your Honor, the fact thatthat happens exists already. The rule that I'm asking foris to provide material exculpatory information toindividuals who are not guilty which will, when they areable to --QUESTION: But your client is guilty, and Idon't understand why what we're talking about is somehypothetical. You have to establish your client's rightand the argument is, if the case is going to go to trial, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC you're entitled, before the trial starts, to get thisstuff, but you're not entitled to get it in the beginningof the case. And you are representing a guilty client andasserting that right on behalf of your guilty client.MR. HUBACHEK: Well, Justice Ginsburg, the --the posture of the case, as has been discussed, is thatthere -- this is a sentencing issue where there's arequest for a departure based upon the -- this fast trackprogram. Ms. Ruiz didn't participate in the fast trackprogram because she objected to the term of the pleaagreement which required her to surrender her rights underthe -- the Brady decision. QUESTION: But she -- she pled guiltynonetheless.QUESTION: She said she's guilty. MR. HUBACHEK: Yes, she did. QUESTION: And she didn't enter an Alford plea.MR. HUBACHEK: No, Justice Souter, she did not. But the -- the way that the case was presented to theNinth Circuit was that she had a constitutional right tothis information, if it existed. I mean, there aresituations where the -- the marijuana, for instance, inthis case is concealed. It's unlikely that an individualwho's merely a courier would ever have actual access toit. There is a recent spate of cases in Dallas where the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC drugs that were seized turned out not to be drugs.QUESTION: That's all true, but this is --you're asking for a really major change in the system. Imean, what the Government says -- and maybe it would be abetter system, but the Government says, once we go downthis path, here's what's going to happen. And they soundright to me.The prosecutors, who are very busy -- very busy-- and have a little time with the witnesses and they goin and start talking about a plea, will now not be able todo that. They'll have to look into their witnesses, getall the evidence together, get the impeachment stuff, giveit to the defendant, and percent of them or maybe only percent will say, the hell with this. We'll go totrial. I'm not going to do it. We'll go to trial.And under the present system, particularly indrug offenses, what that means for many, many, manypeople, guilty and innocent -- let's say guilty -- they'regoing to go away for very long times. And therefore,we're transforming this system into something like aEuropean system where you can't take guilty pleas, andit'd be somewhere in the middle. That's a major change. And, anyway, the Constitution doesn't requirement --require it and it would work out the worse, they say, fora lot of defendants. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. HUBACHEK: Well, first of all, JusticeBreyer, the -- this system has been in place in theSouthern District of California, which has this enormouscaseload and all these drug cases, for the past year. Theterm --QUESTION: Have they been giving all theevidence, the impeachment evidence and so forth? MR. HUBACHEK: Right. The term that -- that Ms.Ruiz objected to has been removed from the plea agreement. It's been going on for a year. The pleas are proceedingapace. QUESTION: The same way?MR. HUBACHEK: The same way, Your Honor. The --QUESTION: But let's -- let's go back perhaps toJustice Ginsburg's question, that you say you're here onbehalf of innocent people who want to plead guilty. Butyour own client admitted that she was -- had or pounds of marijuana. Surely, you've got to argue for arule that favors something like that who is not aninnocent person.MR. HUBACHEK: Well, the rule that I'm proposingwould, indeed, benefit both non-innocent and innocentindividuals. But that's the case with everyconstitutional protection.QUESTION: Well, wouldn't it be better to just th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC say we don't accept guilty pleas from innocent people? That's our policy. MR. HUBACHEK: Well, the -- I don't think thatany judge or any prosecutor wants to accept guilty pleasfrom innocent people. QUESTION: And indeed may not do so. That's therule. You -- you won't accept a guilty plea from someonewho's innocent.MR. HUBACHEK: Well, the protections that are inplace don't fully account for innocence. For -- forexample, even in a rule decision -- in a rule plea,if you ask someone, did you sell the drugs or did you, youknow, shoot the person, that doesn't say anything aboutwhether or not there's entrapment. It doesn't sayanything at all about whether or not there's self-defense. If a defendant pleads guilty in ignorance of that kind ofinformation, then in fact an innocent person could pleadguilty. In Alford pleas or nolo pleas, there's no factualbasis provided at all. And again --QUESTION: Wait a minute. I don't understand. The person doesn't understand that there's a -- thisperson doesn't have a lawyer who tells him, you know, ifyou shot the person in self-defense, of course, you're notguilty. Is -- is that the hypothetical you're positing,somebody who has such poor legal advice and he doesn't th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC know there's a right of self-defense?MR. HUBACHEK: The -- the concern here, JusticeScalia, is not evidence that the lawyer has access to andsimply misadvises the client. I understand that you haveto take the risk in many situations. What I'm talkingabout is evidence that would support such a defense, anentrapment defense, or a self-defense defense that's notavailable to counsel but is in the possession of -- of theprosecution.QUESTION: Well, it would certainly be inpossession of the defendant. I mean, it -- it'simpossible for him not to know whether he was acting inself-defense. The -- the only possible reason for -- forgiving him, this innocent person, this information is toenable him to make an intelligent judgment to plead guiltyeven though he's innocent. And I don't think we're -- Idon't think we're supposed to encourage that.I mean, we would have contradictory policies. Other provisions of our laws make it very clear that weare not to accept guilty pleas from innocent people, andyou want to adopt a system that will enable innocentpeople more intelligently to plead guilty.MR. HUBACHEK: Well, perhaps -- what I'm sayingis -- is that if information that supports the self-defense theory that is not in the possession of the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC defense but is in the possession of the prosecution, ifthat evidence is turned over, that will make it morelikely that the innocent person will go to trial --QUESTION: Okay. Let's --QUESTION: Is there -- is there any precedentoutside the Ninth Circuit that says Brady is an immediateturnover right and not a preparation for trial right?MR. HUBACHEK: Yes, there is. The SecondCircuit has adopted this rule since , and again, whilethe Solicitor General has come forward and indicated thereare numerous potential down sides to this type ofconstitutional rule, the bottom line is -- is it --QUESTION: The Second Circuit has for impeachingmaterial as well?MR. HUBACHEK: Yes, Your Honor. QUESTION: Let me go back to a variant ofJustice Scalia's question. It seems to me that yourstrongest argument is the argument that does focus on the-- the supposedly innocent defendant. And -- and theargument that I think is strongest with respect to thatcategory is the argument that those who enter Alford pleasobviously are not doing so because they want to pleadguilty, despite their protest of innocence, they're doingit because they think they face such terrible odds that,in fact, it's better for them to collapse at the beginning th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC and get it over with. And if these people are presentedwith exculpatory, including impeachment evidence, they areless likely to do just what Justice Scalia says we, afterall, as a system don't want them to do.My question is, do you have any indication thatthere is such a rash of unintelligent Alford pleas goingon that we should modify the entire system to respond tothis risk of Alford pleas that, in fact, would not beentered if the disclosure that you ask for were given?MR. HUBACHEK: I don't have an -- an empiricalstudy that shows how many such guilty pleas are entered. I've cited on pages to of the respondent's brief anumber of cases in which there are potentially innocentpeople who have pled guilty, individuals who didn't know,for instance, that a witness saw the tire blow out on thecar before the car crossed over the median, indicatingthat that person -- that the tire blowout, not theperson's driving was responsible for the accident.Another case, the Gibson case, where theprosecutor was actually told by the main identificationwitness that she was changing her story, and that wasn'tturned over to the defense. In the Lee case, a situation where theindividual was charged with an offense and told that therewas an identification, and it turns out that the -- the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC witness misidentified him and that then the -- the witnesswas later shown, before a preliminary hearing, a pictureof the defendant. So, there are cases out there in whichthis risk exists. And if I could, I think that the -- one of theproblems I guess in getting across the point is that Ithink the Solicitor General has misstated the import ofthe Ninth Circuit's test. The Ninth Circuit's test is notsolely a -- you know, we want to give you all the cards soyou can make a better strategic choice. The -- the testis derived from the Court's decision in Hill v. Lockhart,and Hill v. Lockhart's test says would the defendant havegone to trial if, in fact, he had received the properadvice. But then it says that --QUESTION: Well, but even -- even if you'regoing to imply -- if -- if that's going to be yourstandard, it seems to me that the Solicitor General hasgot a point when he says if the Ninth Circuit test isgoing to be applied and applied with your gloss, it can'tstop where it is now. It's going to have to go thefurther step and, in effect, require disclosure of all theinculpatory evidence. What's your response to that?MR. HUBACHEK: My response to that is -- is thatwe're asking for a right based on Brady, and Brady doesn'tprovide for -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: Oh, but Brady -- I mean, Bradyultimately comes down to a judgment about materiality, and-- and materiality in the sense of -- of the kind ofevidence that disturbs confidence in the verdict is ajudgment that can only be made in the context of theentire evidence of the case. Brady judgments ultimatelyare made after the fact. And I don't see why that -- thatvery fact if we're -- if Brady is going, ultimately, to beour standard here, doesn't imply just what the SolicitorGeneral argued.Before we can tell that there has been aviolation of the rule that you propose, a court would haveto know -- and indeed, before that, a defendant presumablywould have to know -- the -- the entire evidentiary worldof that case. And that means you've got to know a lotmore than impeachment evidence or even exculpatoryevidence. You've got to know what the inculpatoryevidence is. So, it seems to me that what you're arguingfor, even with your gloss and even starting with Brady, isessentially a global disclosure rule.MR. HUBACHEK: Well, I'd respectfully disagree. I think that the Hill v. Lockhart test, when specificallythe Hill case was discussing when defense counsel fails to-- to find material exculpatory evidence, that the NinthCircuit test would apply at that point, but that that test th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC will ultimately devolve into what effect this evidencewould have at trial. So --QUESTION: Hill -- Hill was an ineffectiveassistance of counsel case, wasn't it? MR. HUBACHEK: That's correct, Your Honor. QUESTION: So, we're not talking about anyobligation of the prosecutor in Hill.MR. HUBACHEK: No. I understand. But -- butHill talked about ineffective assistance of counsel in thecontext of the failure to locate material exculpatoryevidence, essentially the same facts that -- that couldconceivably result in the withdrawal of the guilty plea.QUESTION: Yes, but the relationship between adefendant's attorney and the prosecutor on the other sideare by no means the same.MR. HUBACHEK: I agree. And Brady certainlydoesn't suggest that they're the same. Brady in trialrequires that the prosecutor turn over the evidence butnot to tell the defense lawyer how to use it. Well, we'repositing that the same sort of obligation should exist atthe pretrial stage. The prosecutor has to turn over theinformation but not go any further and provide advice asto how it should be used. QUESTION: It's so odd that it comes to us in acase where there's no suggestion that we're dealing here th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC with an innocent defendant. We're -- we're told nothingabout what's out there that would affect this case, arewe?MR. HUBACHEK: I -- I understand that this is acase where there's a guilty plea and we're not making anargument that she -- that Ms. Ruiz should be permitted towithdraw her guilty plea. However, if the Court adopts arule that the Ninth Circuit and the Second Circuit'sapproach is incorrect, then defendants will not receiveexculpatory evidence before they plead guilty andsituations such as arose in the various --QUESTION: Well, I -- I assume there is, as theSolicitor General suggests, some pretrial discovery rightthat a defense counsel has.MR. HUBACHEK: Well, there's some pretrialdiscovery right, but it's not extensive and oftentimes itdoesn't cover the types of information that has led topotential miscarriages of justice, as I set out in thebrief.QUESTION: And in fact, the -- the relevantdiscovery rule actually prohibits, as I read it, discoveryof some material that you say this rule would cover.MR. HUBACHEK: Right. For instance, the --the --QUESTION: Statements of witnesses, for example. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. HUBACHEK: Exactly. Justice Stevens,your --QUESTION: Which is -- which is a troublingconcept because one of the things we're sort of trying todo here is balance the system-wide benefit of an -- a fasttrack program, on the one hand, with the occasional casewhere there's a risk of injustice that -- that concernsyou. And it's that very balance that, it would seem tome, must have motivated the draftsman of rule and theenactment of the Jencks Act that have developed somerather elaborate rules as to just what rights you do havebefore you plead guilty, and you're, in effect, sayingwell, we should go beyond those as a matter of judicialcraftsmanship.MR. HUBACHEK: Well, the rule that we'reproposing would not supplant all of those rules. This isa narrow range --QUESTION: It would add to them, and that's it. There's -- there's a limited right of discovery under theFederal rules, and you are urging an expansion of thatright essentially.MR. HUBACHEK: It -- it would expand it. That'scorrect. However, it would expand it in only a narrowfashion because the information that we would -- that thedefense would be entitled to would be limited by the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC notion of materiality. Much of the debate in Agurs andBagley was whether or not a more broad rule should beadopted, but ultimately the -- the Court settled on themateriality standard. QUESTION: What we're doing is -- is you'reasking us to open up the plea bargaining process andpiecemeal to bring in a constitutional rule that wouldaffect one aspect of it. Now, it's -- it's hard for me toaccept that, at least without knowing more about what arethe proposals around in the bar and elsewhere as to howthat process should be regularized. Are there rulessuggestions, rules change suggestions, statutorysuggestions? Where does this constitutional rule comingin, in a sense, out of -- from somewhere suddenly affectthis -- the whole process? Can I get a grasp of that byreading something? MR. HUBACHEK: I -- I can't direct you, JusticeBreyer, to any particular rule change proposals that areout there.Our argument is based upon the notion thateveryone agrees that the defendant is entitled to -- tomaterial exculpatory evidence at trial under the FifthAmendment and also that the -- that the Sixth Amendmentrequires defense counsel to find material exculpatoryevidence to use at trial. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Now, the -- the Sixth Amendment also requirescounsel to locate material exculpatory evidence before thedecision to make a plea is -- is made. And the reasonthat is is so that it will be a plea that's worthy ofconfidence. And that's -- ultimately the standard underBrady is -- is essentially the same as under Strickland. We want a -- a proceeding that's reliable.Under the current state of the law, if defensecounsel fails to find a piece of material exculpatoryevidence, that guilty plea is then, therefore, going to beunreliable. But if the same piece of -- of materialexculpatory evidence is unavailable to counsel, but in thepossession of the prosecution, that conviction isconsidered to be reliable even if the defendant doesn'tget the benefit of it.So, what we're proposing is -- is that there isa complementary action of -- of both the Fifth and SixthAmendment rights pre plea and during the trial and that ifthere is going to be an overlap in the Fifth and SixthAmendment rights it's got to be at -- where the interestthat those rights protect is at its highest, and that is,protecting the innocent from pleading guilty.QUESTION: Under the fast track program, doesthe defendant have to waive rule rights?MR. HUBACHEK: The -- under the fast track th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC program, the defendant can't file any motions at all, butthe -- what happens is -- is that there is a pre-indictment offer that's made and the pre-indictment offeris usually accompanied by discovery in the form of -- in acase like Ms. Ruiz's, the reports of the initialinspectors and then the special agent who comes in anddoes the interrogation and does the -- sort of a summaryof the other individuals' information. QUESTION: So, those are available even underthe fast track program. MR. HUBACHEK: That's correct. That informationis provided. QUESTION: Suppose you're right on yourconstitutional argument. I'd just like you to spend minute addressing what I do not see how we get around thesimple fact that you have a client and your client issaying that, as a matter of law, the judge had to depart. And not only am I unaware of any law that says the judgehas to depart, but in this case, I can't even find aprovision that would allow him to depart.And -- and I -- they've said, oh, well, he wasunder a mistake of law. So, I've read the three sentencesquoted for that proposition, and I certainly don't see anymistake of law there. He says, the court has read andconsidered the -- the documents, blah, blah, blah, and th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC I've decided this is -- the court feels that this is not aproper case for departure. So?And in another part of the record, he says -- hesays, if you didn't sign an agreement, you have to livewith the consequence.MR. HUBACHEK: I -- I agree, Justice Breyer,that there's no rule that you can say that a districtcourt is compelled to depart in any case. The -- thedistrict court judge, when asked to depart because Ms.Ruiz was being denied the fast track benefit because sherefused to agree to what she thought was anunconstitutional provision -- the district court's onlyresponse was -- is that was acceptance and offer. The --and the interpretation of that is -- is the districtthought it didn't have discretion to depart unless theGovernment was agreeing --QUESTION: That's really not what he said. Imean, he just said you're not going to get advantage ofthis because you didn't sign it. QUESTION: He said it's just not proper. Imean, I wish he'd give us language that -- that wouldindicate that he thought he couldn't depart, even if hewanted to. He just said it's not, in his view, a propercase, but that's -- you know, that's fully consistent withhis discretion. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. HUBACHEK: The -- the district court'scomment related to whether or not -- he said to counselthat there was offer and acceptance and -- and that's it. And that --QUESTION: What's bothering me is this, that youcould say, okay, let's just hold everything in abeyance,get to the issue. If we do that, why wouldn't this casestand for the proposition that courts of appeals haveabsolute authority to review every instance in which atrial judge refuses to depart? In which case there willbe tens of thousands of such instances every year goingright up to the court of appeals for review of thequestion whether he should have departed. Now, that's amajor change in the law, I think. And how -- how could Iavoid that change and yet get to the issue?MR. HUBACHEK: Well, the Solicitor Generalhasn't been framing the questions related solely to thediscovery issues, the Brady issue and the waiver issue. So, I don't think that the Court would be ruling on thepropriety of the -- of the Ninth Circuit's analysis --QUESTION: Your -- your answer is an easy one,Mr. Hubachek. Our -- our opinions are very clear that incases where we say nothing about jurisdiction, there is noholding on jurisdiction. MR. HUBACHEK: That's -- that's what I was -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC (Laughter.) QUESTION: If we simply didn't -- if we -- if wesimply didn't discuss the jurisdictional point, our -- ourdecision would stand for nothing. But it's not veryresponsible to do that where it's very clear where there'sthat there's no jurisdiction. That's -- that's the moreserious obstacle.MR. HUBACHEK: Well, perhaps cert was -- wasimprovidently granted. I mean, the -- Mr. SolicitorGeneral has come up and said that the -- the Government isnot challenging the -- the Ninth Circuit's ruling.QUESTION: Did you argue in the Ninth Circuitthat there was jurisdiction? MR. HUBACHEK: Yes.QUESTION: Then I take it you certainly don'ttake a different position here. MR. HUBACHEK: No, certainly not, Mr. ChiefJustice.QUESTION: But our remedy would not be todismiss the writ. Our remedy would be to vacate thejudgment of the court of appeals if the court of appealsdid not have jurisdiction. QUESTION: You don't want that. MR. HUBACHEK: No, I don't. (Laughter.) th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. HUBACHEK: With respect to the -- the --with respect to the Fifth and Sixth Amendment claim thatwe've made, the Second Circuit has also found a differenttheory under which the -- the Court could find a Bradyviolation, and they've indicated that the failure to turnover Brady information is essentially otherwiseimpermissible conduct under the Brady v. United Statescase. So, Mr. Chief Justice brought up Brady v. UnitedStates, and I think that the Ninth Circuit's analogy toHill v. Lockhart and the Miller v. Angliker impermissibleconduct approach has both addressed the concern thatUnited States v. Brady would preclude. QUESTION: But -- but, you know, to say we'lljust call it impermissible conduct because we want to getit done isn't very satisfactory. I mean, you have to saywhy it's impermissible.MR. HUBACHEK: Right. And our -- our point is-- is that it's impermissible because the Fifth and SixthAmendments together protect the innocent from conviction. When the Fifth Amendment right to receive the information-- excuse me. When the Sixth Amendment right to havecounsel find this information attaches, then the FifthAmendment right to have the Government turn it over shouldalso attach because the same source of unreliability wouldbe present if, in fact, the defendant were to make the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC decision to plead guilty without receiving materialexculpatory information. QUESTION: But in order to make that argument,as I understand it, you have to make an unreliabilityargument divorced from a materiality argument. Do youagree?MR. HUBACHEK: No. No, I don't because there isa materiality requirement in Hill v. Lockhart. QUESTION: How do we judge that materiality at-- I mean, in Hill and Lockhart, when -- when you'redealing with counsel, you can at least say, well, if -- ifthey had been aware -- regardless of how the case wouldhave turned out, there's a way in which it makes sense tosay that if they had been aware of this kind of evidence,they would have said we're going to trial. We're going toroll the dice.When you're dealing with -- with essentially a-- a Brady rule, you're not dealing with a will they rollthe dice or will they not kind of question; you're dealingultimately with the question of what was its effect on the-- the soundness of the verdict, the soundness of aresult. And the only way you can make that judgment is toknow everything that would be in the case. In a sensethat's easy in a Brady situation because you're lookingback. Here you can't look back. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC So, it seems to me that you've either got tocome up with an entirely new materiality or prejudicestandard, and the -- and the effectiveness of counselcases don't seem to me quite on point there. Or you'vegot to dispense with a materiality standard entirely andsay anything that would have had any tendency to exculpateor to impeach in a way favorable to the defendant, ifdenied, supports in effect a -- a claim for relief, whichis a nonmateriality standard. MR. HUBACHEK: Well, Justice Souter, on page of our brief, we have a block quote from Hill v. Lockhart,and I really think that the test that was discussed inHill v. Lockhart covers the -- the concerns that YourHonor is mentioning today. And ultimately Hill v.Lockhart concludes by saying that in -- in the case ofcounsel failing to discover material exculpatoryinformation, which is essentially the same type of problemthat we're talking about here, it says that ultimately theassessment will depend in large part on a predictionwhether the evidence likely would have changed the outcomeof a trial. Now, I certainly agree that it will be a moredifficult assessment to make without there actually havingbeen a trial, but we're asking that Your Honors adopt arule in which you would be -- the courts would undertake th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC exactly the same analysis that Hill v. Lockhart alreadyrequires in the context of defense counsel failing to finda piece of exculpatory information. And -- so, we're notat all asking that this analysis --QUESTION: But that is a different -- I mean, itnecessarily is a different standard from the Bradystandard of materiality which we have now. Is it not?MR. HUBACHEK: Well, the Brady standard formateriality, as was explained in Kyles, derives fromStrickland. Hill v. Lockhart also derives its materialitystandard from Strickland. So, I think it's --QUESTION: Well, let's go back to my question. They -- they may have a common ancestry, but in fact theyare not identical tests because they are applied incircumstances that are by definition very different. MR. HUBACHEK: Well, I -- I think that it's aneasier application post trial, but it's still the sametest that -- that's -- that we're being asked to apply inthe plea situation because Hill v. Lockhart says, look, ifcounsel doesn't find the key piece of evidence and youplead guilty, then we're going to go back and look andsee, well, what would have happened at a trial if you hadthat key piece of evidence. If there's a reasonablechance you would prevail at trial --QUESTION: And in -- and in order to do that th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC intelligently, we've got to know what the trial would haveincluded, won't we? And that either means, number one,that the disclosure has got to go to, in effect, theinculpatory evidence, or it means at the minimum, numbertwo, that the State has an opportunity to come in and say,we'll tell you what the inculpatory evidence would havebeen. This is what we would have put in, and judged inthis context, it's not material.One way or the other, either -- either thenecessary implication of your test or the -- theimplication that the State would have a right to respondto it, it seems implies that in order to apply your rulebefore trial, a -- a court, reviewing one of your claims,would have to make a judgment about the -- thesignificance of the evidence in the context of -- of anentire trial, a whole evidentiary record that can be --that can -- can be anticipated.MR. HUBACHEK: And that's the same approach thatHill v. Lockhart requires. But a prosecutor in making thedetermination --QUESTION: Except in Hill it's easier because weknow that trial decisions are -- are often made withoutknowing what the result would be. They are decisions togo ahead and have a shot at defending the case, and that'sa different -- that's a different standard from Brady th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC materiality.MR. HUBACHEK: Hill is a plea case.QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. Hubachek.General Olson, you have minutes remaining.REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF THEODORE B. OLSONON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERMR. OLSON: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice.What the respondent is proposing and what theNinth Circuit adopted is an unworkable and undesirablerule to solve a nonexistent problem. And it's illustratedby the facts of this case. The footnote or the -- thepages in the respondent's brief cite some cases in whichtheoretically it might be that some driver who crossed theline earlier might create a problem, but that is not thiscase. And there's no empirical evidence or any otherevidence in the record that would show that there's asignificant problem here. The --QUESTION: Mr. Olson, would you address againthe jurisdictional problem here? I mean, if -- if in factthe district court judge had discretion about whatsentence to impose and could have -- and did exercise thatdiscretion, do we have to be concerned about --MR. OLSON: I think that is not an easysituation, but I think that the Ninth Circuit believedthat however inartfully the district court expressed it or th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC incompletely the district court expressed it, that the --that the district court was saying it didn't feel that ithad the capacity or the ability under the law to depart,that it didn't have the discretion to do so. That's whatthe Ninth Circuit decided. We argued otherwise to theNinth Circuit --QUESTION: I guess this is not a proper casecould mean that, I suppose. I wouldn't put it that way,but it could --MR. OLSON: It could mean that. That's how theNinth Circuit -- Circuit perceived it.QUESTION: I'd even attempt not to say anythingabout it, so long as I was not certain that there was nojurisdiction. MR. OLSON: We -- we believe that we -- afterlooking at it carefully, we've decided that the NinthCircuit probably was right under the circumstances,although you could argue it the other way, and that this-- this is an issue that is presented clearly with respectto the -- the legal standard that's been adopted to the --by the Ninth Circuit and which is in play today. The -- the respondent says, well, pleas areproceeding apace in California notwithstanding -- or inthe Ninth Circuit, notwithstanding the decision in thiscase. There is no evidence in the record to suggest that th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC this hasn't created a problem, and in fact, I'm informedthat there are cases that have not been brought and casesthat have been dismissed because of a concern aboutcomplying with the rule in this case, because once that'sdone, those cases are -- are potentially over with. Butthe fact is there's no evidence either way. Justice Breyer, you raised some questions aboutwhether we would be constitutionalizing a rule which wouldchange Jencks and change the discovery rules. There --there -- on page of the Government's brief, we talkedabout the fact that there have been efforts to change andaccelerate the discovery requirements and that those havebeen soundly rejected for the very reasons we've beentalking about here. And the Jencks standard is what it isbecause there's very much concern over the safety ofwitnesses when those statements are produced earlier inthe case. And that's -- Congress has made that decisionquite consciously that those statements don't have to beproduced until the witness is actually called in trial forthat reason.Let me finish by saying that with respect toHill v. Lockhart, that's a case involving a requirementthat a defendant have, under the Sixth Amendment,competent counsel within the range of -- of competenceexpected for counsel in criminal cases. That's a Sixth th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Amendment right to effective assistance of counsel. It isnot a -- a constitutional right to effective assistance ofthe prosecution in deciding whether to plead guilty ornot.What we have in this case is a rule which is notrequired, which -- which would cause considerableproblems. It would undermine the plea bargaining system,which is important to the administration of criminaljustice in this country, and affect the finality of guiltypleas, which is an important consideration as well.CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: Thank you, GeneralOlson.The case is submitted. (Whereupon, at : p.m., the case in theabove-entitled matter was submitted.) th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC A abeyance : ability : able : :, : about : : : :, : :, :, :,, :, : :, : :, : :, : : :, : : : : : :, : :,,, above-entitled : : absolute : absolutely : : accelerate : accept :,, : : acceptance : : access : : accident : accompanied : accomplish : account : : : : accuracy :, accused : : acknowledge : acknowledged : acquitted : across : : Act : acting : action : : actual : actually : : : : add : additional : address : addressed : : addressing : adequately : : administration : : admitted : adopt : : : adopted : : : : : adopts : advantage : adversarial : adversary : : advice : : : : advising : affect : :, : after : : : : again : : : : : : against : : agent : agree : :, : : agreeing : agreement : :, :,, : :, : : : agreements : agrees : Agurs : : ahead : Ake : Alford : : : : : :, alibi : alleviates : allow : : allows : already : : : : : although : : Amendment :, :,, :,,, : : Amendments : amount : ample : analogy : analysis : :, ancestry : ANGELA : Angliker : announced : another : : : answer : : : : : : : answered : anticipated : anyone :, anything : : : :, : : anyway : : apace : : appeal : appeals :, :, APPEARANCES : appeared : appendix :,, : : applicable : application : applied : : :, : apply : : : : : applying : approach : : : appropriate : : appropriateness : approximately : April : argue : : : argued : : arguing : argument : :, :, : : :, : : :,,, : : : :,, : armed : arose : around : : articulate : articulated : : aside : asked :, : : asking : : : : : : aspect : aspects : asserting : : assertion : assessment :, assistance :, :, assume : : assuming : : assurances : attach : attaches : attack : attempt : attorney : Attorneys : authority : available : : avoid : avoidance : aware :, away : : a.m : : B B : :, : : back : : : :, : : bad : Bagley : : : balance : : : : : : balances :, : balancing : bank : bar : bargain : :, bargaining :, : : bargains : barred : based : : : : : basic : : basis : :, :, : :, : :, : before : :, : : : : : :, : : : : beginning : : behalf :, :,, : : : th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC : : behavior : being : : : : : : : belief : believe : : : believed : believing : benefit : : : : : benefits : :, best : : : better : : : : between : beyond : : binds : bit : blah :,, blanket : block : blocks : : blow : blowout : border : both : : : : : : bothering : bottom : Brady :,,,,,,,, : :, :, : :, : : :,, : : :, :,,,, :, : : :,,,, :, :, : Brady's : :, Breyer : : : : : brief : : : : : : : : bring : : : bringing : broad : : brought : : : burdens : busy : :, C C : : California : : : : call : called : came : capacity : car : :, cards : care :, carefully : case : :,, : : : :, :, : :, : :, :, : : :, :, : : : : :,,, : :,, :,, :, : : : :, :,, :, : :, : : :, : :, :,, :,, caseload : cases : : :,, :, :,,, : : :,, :, : : : : : : : :,,, category : cause : : cert : : certain :, : : : certainly : : : :, : certiorari : : challenging : chance : : : chances : : :, : change :, :, :, :,, changed : changing : charge : : charged : : Chief :, : : : : : : : : choice : : choices : circuit :, : :,, :, :, :,,,, : : : : : : : : : : : :,, : : : : : :, : :,,,,, Circuit's : : : : :, : : : : circumstance : : : circumstances : : : : : cite : cited : : claim : : claims : Clause : clear : :, : :, : : : clearly : client : : :, : : :, client's : cocaine :, collapse : collar : collateral : colloquy : combination : come : : : : : : : comes : : : : : coming : : comment : committed : : common : : compelled : competence : competent : : : complementary : complicate : complicated : complying : component : compromise : concealed : conceivably : concept : : : concern : : : :, concerned : :, : concerns : : concludes : conclusion : conduct :,, confessions : confidence : : confront : confrontation : Congress : consciously : consequence : considerable : : consideration : : : considered : : consistent : consisting : conspiracy : Constitution : : : : constitutional : :,, : :, : :, :, : : : :, : : constitutionalizing : consultation : contemplating : contends : content : context : : : : : :, continue : contradictory : convicted :, : : conviction : : : convictions : :, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC correct : : : couched :, counsel :, : :, : :, : : :, : : :,, : : : :, :, :, : counseled : count : country : : courier : course : : court :, :, :, :, : :,, :, :, : :, : : :,, :,, :, :, :, : : : : : : :,, :, :, : : :, :, courts : : : : court's : : :, : : : : : : cover : :, covered : : covers : craftsmanship : crazy : create : created : : creates : :, crime : : : crimes : : criminal : : : : : : : : : : crossed : : current : cut : D D : Dallas : damaging : deal : : dealing : :,,, death : debate : decide : decided : : :, deciding : decision : :, :, : : : : : : : : : : : : : decisions : : :, : :, defendant : :, :,,, : :, :,,,, : :, : :,,,, :, : :, : : :, discussed : : : discussing : dismiss : dismissed : dispense : displace : : district : :, :, : : :,,, : :, :, districts : disturbs : divorced : documents : : doing :, : done : : doubt : down : : : : : draft : drafted : drafting : draftsman : drain : driver : driving : drug :, : : : drugs :, : Due : during : duty : D.C :, E E : :, earlier : : : easier : : easy : : : effect : : : : : : : : effective :, effectiveness : effort : efforts : either : : : :,, : elaborate : : : elements : : elsewhere : empirical : : enable :, enables : enactment : encourage : :, : : encouraged : encourages : :, end : enforce : engage : engraft : :, :,,,, :,,, :,, : : : : :, : : : :, : : : : defendants : : : : defendant's : : : :, : : defending : defense : :,,, : : : : : : : : : definitely : definition : degree : denial : : denied : : depart :,,,, :,, :,,, : : departed : departing : Department : departure : : : depend : : deprive : derived : derives :, described : deserve : design : despite : determination : determine : determined : determining : develop : developed :, : devolve : dice : :, :, Diego : : different : : : : : :, :, difficult : direct : direction : : disagree : disclose : : disclosure : :, : : : : discourage : discouraging : discover : discovery : :, :, :,,, : : : :, discretion :, :, : discretionary : discuss : th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC enormous : ensure : : enter : : : : entered : :, entering : entire : : :, : entirely :, entitled : :, : : entrapment : : entry : enunciating : erroneously : especially : ESQ :, :,, essential : : essentially : : : : : : : establish : establishing : European : evaluations : even : : : : : : : : : : :, :,, : :, : : ever : : : : every : : : :, everybody : everyone : everything : : : : : evidence : : : : : : : : :, :, : : : :,,,,, :,, : :, :, : : : :, :, : :, : : evidentiary : : exactly : : : : example : : Except : exculpate : exculpatory : :, : : : : : : :, : : :, :,, : : : excuse : exercise : exercised : exhaustive : : exist : existed : : exists : : expand :, expanded : expansion : expected : explain : explained : : explicit : explicitly : expose : expressed : : extension : extensive : extent :, eyewitnesses : F F : : : face : : faced : facilitate : fact : : : :, : :, :, : : : : : : :, : : : : : :,, facts : : : factual : :, : :, : :, : factually : failing : : fails : : failure : : : fair :,, : :, fairly : : fairness : : :, faith :, : false : far :, : fashion : fast : :, : :, : : favorable : favors : FDIC : Federal : : :, : : : : : feel : feels : felt :,,,, : Fifth : : :, :,, : figure :, file : files : fill : finality : find : : : : : : : : : :, :, finish : first : : : : :, : focus : footnote : force : form : : : formulating : forth :, : forward : found : framing : frequently : : : from : :,, :, : : : : : : :, : : : : : : : : :,, : full : : fully : : fundamental : funnels :, further : :, : : : Furthermore : G G : General : : : : : : : :, : : : : : : gets :, getting : : Gibson : Ginsburg :,, : Ginsburg's : give : :, : : : : given : : : : gives : giving : : : global : gloss : : go : : : : :, : : : : : : :, :,, : :, : : : :, :, goes : going : : : : : : :,,, : : : : : :,, : : : :,, : :, : : :, : gone : : : good :, : : Government :, : : : : : :, : : : Government's : : : granted : grasp : greater : guess : : : : : th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC guideline : guidelines : : :,, guilt : guilty :,, : : : : : :, :,, :,, :,,, :,, :,, :, :, : :,,,,,, :,,, : :,,,, :,,, :,, : :,,,,, :,, : :, : :,, : :, : : :, H hand : happen : : happened : happens : : : : hard : : having : head : hear :, : heard : hearing : heavy : held : : hell : her : : :, : : herself : he'll :, highest : Hill :, :, :,,, : :, :,, :, : :, : : him : : :, : : :,, : : himself : hold : holding : Honor : :, : : : : Honors : horrified : house : Hubachek : : :,,,, : :, :,, :,, :,,, :, :, :, : : : :,, :, : :,, : : : : :,,, :,,, :, : : :, : :, hypothetical : : : : : Hypothetically : hypotheticals : I identical : identification :, :, identify : ignorance : illustrated : immediate : immigration : impeach : impeaching :, : impeachment : : : : : : : : impermissible :,,,, implication :, implications : implicit : implies : imply : : import : important : : : :, impose : imposed : impossible : improvidently : inartful : inartfully : incarceration : incentive : incentives : : included : : includes : including : : : inclusive : : incompatible : incompletely : inconsistent :, incorrect : : inculpatory : : : :, indeed : : :, : : : indicate : indicated : : indicates : indicating : indication : indictment : individual :, : : : : individualistic : individualized : individuals :,,, : : : : ineffective :, inevitable : information : : : :, : : : : : : : : : : :, :,, : : : informed : : initial : initiative : injustice : innocence : : : : : innocent : : :,, : :,,, : : :,,, :,, :,,, : :,, :,,, : :,, :, : : : : inquire : : insist :, inspectors : instance : : : : instances : insured : intelligent : : : : intelligently : : : intends : interceded : interest : : interpretation : interpreted : interpreting : interrogate : interrogation : involved : : involves : involving : : : irrespective : issue : : : : : : :,, : issues : it'd : J jail : Jencks : :, joint :, : judge : : :,, : : : : :, : : : : judged : judgment : :, : : : judgments : judicial : jurisdiction : :, : : : :,, : jurisdictional : : : : just :, : : : : : : :,, : : justice : :,, :,, : th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC :, : : : :, : : : :,, : : : :, :, : : : : : : : : : : : : :, justification : K Kennedy : : key :, kick : kind : : : : : : : :, knew : know : : :, :, : : :, : :, : : : :, : :, :, : : :,,, : : : :, knowing : : : known : : knows : : : Kyles : L language : : large : later : latter : Laughter :, law : :,, :,,, :, : : :,,, : : laws : lawyer : :,,,, : : : : lead : least : : : led : Lee : left : legal : : : : : legislature : legitimate : : less : lesser : let : : : let's : :, : : : like : : : : : : : :, likely : : : limit : limitations : limited :, line : : little : : live : : locate : : Lockhart : : : :, :,, :,, : : Lockhart's : logic : logical : long : : : longer : look : : : :, looking : : looks : losing : lot : : : : lots : low :, M made : :, : : :, : : : : : main : : : major :, : make : : : : : :, :, : : : : :,, : : makes : : : making : : : mandatory : Manual : many : : : :,, : : marijuana : : : market : Maryland : material : :,, :, : : : : : :,, : : : : : : : :, :,, : : : materiality :, :, :,, :, :,, : materials : matter : : : : may : :,, :, : : :, : :, : : : maybe :, McMann : mean : : : : : : :, : :, : : : : : :, means : :, : : : :, median : mentioned : mentioning : merely : merits : Mezzanatto : middle : midway : might : : :, Miller : millions : mine : minimum :, : minute : : minutes : misadvises : miscarriages : misconstruction : misconstrued : misidentified : misstated : mistake :, mistakes : mitigate : mitigating : modify : moment : months : : moot : : more : : : : : : : : : : :, : : morning : most : : : motions : motivated : much : : : multiplied : must : :, : N N :, : narcotics : narrow :, narrower : national : necessarily : necessary : : needs :, negotiations : neither : : never : nevertheless : new : : : next : : : Ninth :, : : :,, : :,, :, :,,,, : :,, : : : : :, : : :,, : : : :, : : : :,,,,, nolo : : th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC nonetheless : nonexistent : nonmateriality : non-innocent : normally : nothing : : : : : : notion :, notwithstanding :, number :, : : :, numerous : O O : : oath :, object : objected : : objecting : : obligation : :, obligations :, obstacle : obviously : occasional : occurred : occurring : odd : odds : :, : : offense : : :, : : offenses : offer : : :, : : officials : often : : oftentimes : oh : : okay : : : Olson : :, :,, :,,,, : :,, : :,, : : :, :, : :, :, :,, :,, :,,, : :, :, : :,,,, :, : omission : once : :, : : one : : : : : : : : : : :, : : :,, only :, : :, : : : : : : : : open : opinion : opinions : opportunity : oppose : opposing : oral : : : : order : : : : : organized : other :, :, : : : : :, : : : : : : : : otherwise : : : out : : : : :, : : : :,, :, : : : :, :, : outcome : outside : over :, : : : :, :, :, : :,, :, :, :, overlap : overly : over-inclusive : : own : : O'Connor : P P : page : :,, : :, : : pages : : : panoply : paragraph : : paragraphs : paramount : part : : participate : particular : : : : : particularly : : past : path : people : : : :,, : :, :, :, : : :, :, :, perceived : : :, : percent : :, : : :, perfect :, perfectly : perhaps : : : : period :, permits : permitted : person : : : :,, : :, : :,,, : : : : persons : person's : petition :,,, : Petitioner :, :, : : picture : piece :, :,, piecemeal : place : : : : places : play : plea :, : : :, : : : :,, :,,, : :, :, : :, : : :, : :, : :,,, : : : plead : : :, :,, :,,, :, : :, : : :, : : :, : : : : : : pleading : : : : : : : : : pleads : pleas : : : : : :,,, : : :,, : : please : : pled : : : point : : :, : : : : : : : : policies : policy : poor : positing : : position : possession : :,, : : possibility :, : possible : possibly : : post : posture : : potential : : : : potentially : : pounds : : powder : pre : : precedent : Precisely : preclude : prediction : prejudice : preliminary : premised :, preparation : : prepare : prepared : preparing : present : : presented : : : presumably : presumed : presumption : pretrial : : : : : : th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC prevail : : prevented : previous : pre-indictment : primary : :,, prime : probability : : probably : probation : probationary : problem : :,,, : problems : : : procedure :, : : procedures : proceeding : : : process :, : :,, produced :, product : progeny : program :, :,, :, : : :, prohibits : proper : :,, : proposals :, propose : proposed :, : proposing : : : : proposition : : propriety : prosecution : : : : prosecutions : prosecution's : prosecutor : : :, :, : : : : : :, : : :,,, : prosecutors : :, :, : : prosecutor's : protect : : protecting : protection : : protections : : protest : provide : : : : : provided : : : : provides : provision : : provisions : public : purport : purports : purpose : :, pursuant : : put : : : : p.m : Q question :, :,,,,, :, :,, :, :,,, :, :,, : : :, : :,,, :, :,,, :,, : :,, :,,,, : :,, :,, :,, : :,,,, :, : :,,,, : : : :,,, :,, :, : : :, :, :, : :,,,, : :, :, :,,, : : : :, questions : : quibble : quite : : : : quote : quoted : R R : racketeering : raised : range : : : rare :, rash : rather : : reach : read : :, reading : ready : reality : really : : : : : reason : : : : : reasonable : : :,, : reasonably : reasons : REBUTTAL : : receive : : : : received : : receiving : recent : recognized : : record : : : : : : referred : referring : : refusal : refuse : refused : : refuses : refusing : regardless : regularized : REHNQUIST : : rejected : related :, relationship : relatively : relevant : reliable :, relief : : relies : remaining : remedy :, : : :, removed : reports : representation : representing : represents : : request : require : : : : : required : : : : : requirement : : : : requirements : requires : : : : : : : : reserve : : resources : respect : : :, : : :, :,,, : : :, :, : :, : : respectfully : respond : : respondent : : : : : respondent's : : response :, : :, : : responsibilities : responsible : : result : : : : : : : return : reverse : review :, reviewing : right :, : : : :,, :,, : : : :, :,,,,,, :, : : : : : :, : :,, :, : : :,,, : : :, rights : : : : :, :,, : : : :,,, risk : : : : : : : risks :, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC rob : roll :, rolling :, rolls : Ruiz : : : : : : : Ruiz's : rule : :, : :,, :, : : :,, : : :, : : : : :, :,, :, : : :,, :, :,, : : : : : : : :, : rules : : : : : :,, :, : ruling : : run : S S : : safety : same : :, : :, :,,, :, : : :, : San : : Sanchez : : :, sanctioned : satisfactory : saw : saying : : :, : : : : : : : : says : : : : :, : : :,, :, : : : : : Scalia : : : : : : : Scalia's : scope : : second : : :, :, : section : : see : : : :, : seem : : : seems : : : : : : : : : seized : self : self-defense :, :,, sell : sense : : : : :, sentence : : :, : : : : sentences : sentencing : : : : serious : serve : served :, set : : :, : : : : sets : settled : several : : : severe : shoot : short : shot : : show : shown : shows : side : sides : sign :, significance : : significant : similar : simple : simply : : :, since : sits : situation : : : : : : : situations : : : Sixth : :,, :,, :, societal : solely : : Solicitor : : : : : : : : : : solution : solve : some : : : : : : :, : :,, : :, : somebody : : someone :, something : : : : : : : : : : somewhat : somewhere : : sort : : : : : : sorts : sound : soundly : soundness :, source : Souter : : Southern : : so-called : : spate : special : specific : specifically : : : spend : stage : stake : stand : : standard : :,,, : : : : :,, :,,, : : : standards : start : starting : starts : state : : :, statement : statements : :, States :,, : : :, : : :,, statutory :, : step : : STEVEN : : : Stevens : : : stifle : still : : : : stop : story : strategic : Strickland : :, strongest :, study : stuff : : submitted :, subsequent : substantial :, : : : suddenly : sufficient : suggest : : : suggested : suggestion : suggestions :,, suggests : summary : supervised : supplant : support : supports : : suppose : : : supposed : : : : : supposedly : : Supposing : Supreme :, sure : : :, :, : :, Surely : surrender : suspect : system : : : :,, :,, : :, : th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC :, : :,,, : :,,,, : : :, : systems : system-wide : T T :, table : : tactical : : take : : : : : : :, taken : : :, : taking : :, talcum : talked : : talking :,, : : : : : : : telephone : tell : : : : : tells : tempted : tendency : tens : term : :, terms :, :, terrible : test :, : :,,,, :,, : : : testimony : tests : Thank : : :, : their : : : : : THEODORE : :, : : theoretically : theory : : thing : : : : things : : : : : think : : : : :, :, : : : : : : :, :, :, : :, : : :, : : thinking : though : : thought : : :,, thousands : three : : through : :, : throughout : thrust : ties : time : : :,,, : : times : tire :, today : : together : : told : :, : track : :, : :, : : transforming : tremendous : : : : tremendously : trial :,,,, : :, : : : : : :,, :,, : : :, :, : :, :, : : : :, :,, :,,, : trials : troubling : true : :, : truth : :, trying :, : : : turn :, :, turned : : : : : : : turning : turnover : turns : : two : : : : : two-level : type : : : : types : : U ultimately :,, : : : : :, unavailable : unaware : unconstitutional : uncovered : : under : :, : : : :, : : : : : :,,,, :, :, :, : underly : undermine : understand : :,, : :, : : : : understanding : undertake : : undertaking : under-inclusive : : undesirable : unethical :, unfair : unimpeachable : unintelligent : United :,, : : :, : : :,, unless : : : : unlikely : unreliability : : unreliable : until : : unworkable : urge : urging : use :, : : used : : usually : : U.S :, : U.S.C : V v : :,, : : :, : :,,,, : :, : :,, : : vacate : valid : value : variant : various : : vast : verdict : : versions : very : :,, :, :,, : : : : :, : : :, view : : violated : : violation : :,, :, : : violations : voluntarily : voluntary : W Wait : waive : : waived : waiver : want : :,,, :, : : : : : : : : : : wanted : : : wants : : warehouses : warranted : Washington :, wasn't : : : way : : : :, : : : : :, : ways : : : Wednesday : weight : well : :, : : :, :, : :, : : : : :,, :, : th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC : : a : : a : : : : : : : -month : : : : : : : : : : : a : -month : -year : : : (a)() : : a : a : : a : K : : : : : , : ,-some : :, : : : : : : : : : : : : :, :, : : : : : :,,, : : went : :, : : were : : : : : : : : : : we'll :, : : :, : : we're : :,, : :, : : :, : : :,, :,, :, : : :, :, :,, we've :, : : : : while : white : whole : : willing : winning : wish : wishes : withdraw : withdrawal : withheld : withhold : witness : :, :, : witnesses : : :, : : words : : : work : : world : worried : worrying : worse : worthy : wouldn't : : : : : writ : wrong : X :, X Y year : : :, : years : : : - : : : : : : :, : : : :, : : : : :, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC 