 IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XNATIONAL PARK HOSPITALITY ASSOCIATION, Petitioner :::v. : No. -DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR, ET AL. ::- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XWashington, D.C.Tuesday, March , The above-entitled matter came on for oralargument before the Supreme Court of the United States at: a.m.APPEARANCES:KENNETH S. GELLER, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf ofthe Petitioner.JOHN P. ELWOOD, ESQ., Assistant to the Solicitor General,Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on behalfof the Respondent. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC C O N T E N T SORAL ARGUMENT OF KENNETH S. GELLER, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioner JOHN P. ELWOOD, ESQ.On behalf of the Respondent REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OFKENNETH S. GELLER, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioner PAGE th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC P R O C E E D I N G S(: a.m.)CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: We'll hear argumentnow in Number -, the National Park HospitalityAssociation versus the Department of the Interior. Mr. Geller.ORAL ARGUMENT OF KENNETH S. GELLERON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERMR. GELLER: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice, andmay it please the Court:This case concerns the applicability of theContract Disputes Act to contracts between National ParkService and the private concessioners who contract toprovide visitor services and to operate and maintainfacilities in more than of our national parks. QUESTION: Mr. Geller, I have a couple ofpreliminary questions.First of all, this is a facial challenge made bythe National Park Hospitality Association, I take it. Howis the claim ripe for adjudication? Has the associationbeen injured actually? There's no case pending.MR. GELLER: Your Honor, to begin with, let mesay that as to this facial challenge point, this -- thiswas an argument that was never made below. It was notmade in the district court. It was not made in the court th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC of appeals. It was not made in the opposition tocertiorari.QUESTION: Is it one that we're precluded fromconcerning ourselves with?MR. GELLER: Well, I'm not sure it's ajurisdictional issue.QUESTION: Right. MR. GELLER: So it -- it may well be waived.But let me also say quickly that I think thiswhole --QUESTION: Mr. Geller, I think that -- I thinkthe ripeness issue --MR. GELLER: Yes, I was going to addressripeness.QUESTION: -- subsists whether or not it's a facial challenge.MR. GELLER: Right. I was going to addressripeness separately, Justice Scalia. In terms of thisfacial/as-applied, this is an APA challenge to aregulation. I'm not aware that the Court has really usedthis facial/as-applied nomenclature --QUESTION: Okay.MR. GELLER: -- in that -- in that context. After all, under the APA, the question is whether a --an -- a regulation is arbitrary or capricious or contrary th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC to law. Here we have a regulation that categoricallystates no NPS -- no National Park Service concessioncontracts are subject to the CDA. If there -- there are,in fact, some such contracts that are subject to the CDA,as we believe there are, then that regulation is arbitraryand capricious. The agency should have to go back anddraft a more refined regulation. QUESTION: Is that -- is that the standard forripeness --MR. GELLER: I --QUESTION: -- whether the regulation is arbitraryor --MR. GELLER: No, no, no. I --QUESTION: Why is this any different -- youcontend that the agency has no authority to speak authoritatively on this -- on this issue anyway. Andtherefore, this regulation, as I understand your -- yourposition, is -- is of no more effect than the agency'sannouncement of what its litigating position will be.MR. GELLER: Not quite, Justice Scalia. QUESTION: All right. MR. GELLER: I'm trying to -- I'm trying todistinguish the facial/as-applied point that JusticeO'Connor raised from the ripeness question, which I'll getto in just a minute. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC This is not a -- a -- there was an as-appliedchallenge, to begin with, made in the district court. This is not a facial challenge in the sense that we'reasking the Court to strike down the regulation based onhypotheticals or on factual situations that may neverarise. We know what these concessions contracts looklike. The NPS has issued standard concessions contracts. It seems to us rather easy to determine whether theservices that are called for in those contracts bring thecontracts within the -- within the CDA. So I don't thinkthere's anything to this facial challenge.QUESTION: Well, presumably there are manydifferent kinds of concession contracts. Some might becovered; some might not.MR. GELLER: Well, I don't think so, Justice O'Connor, because there are standard concessionscontracts. They're in the record and it's clear that theycall for certain types of services. And we think it'sclear that the Court, as the two lower courts did, candetermine whether those contracts call for the procurementof services that would bring them within the CDA or callfor the repair or maintenance of real property.Now --QUESTION: How many -- what are there? standard concession contracts? th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC MR. GELLER: Three. There are, I think, three.QUESTION: Three?MR. GELLER: And they all call for the sametypes of services at national parks. There are -- thereare copies in the -- in the record.Now, in terms of your ripeness argument, JusticeScalia, once again, the -- the Government never made anysuggestion that this case was not ripe below. The reasonit's not unripe is that the standard concession contractsand the contracts that, in fact, the NPS is putting outfor bid incorporate within them the statement that thesecontracts are not subject to the CDA. The NPHA and itsmembers need to know now, in terms of deciding whether tobid on certain contracts, what their rights are underthose contracts, and therefore --QUESTION: But how -- how does it hurt you to --in the present posture, as I understand it, thecontracts -- whatever it's called -- the ICBA decidesthese cases in your favor. So in the -- in the setting ofa concrete dispute, the contracting officer rules againstone of the concessionaires. The concessionaires goes tothat board if they want to and the board will rule, atleast on the jurisdictional point, that -- that theContracts Dispute Act does apply. So how are you hurtingby -- th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC MR. GELLER: We are harmed, Justice Ginsburg,because it is important for the concessioners to know, atthe time that they're deciding whether to bid on acontract and -- and the time they're deciding how much tobid on a contract, what their rights are under thatcontract. It's a pre-bid -- it's a solicitation in whichthe --QUESTION: That would be the same case if theagency simply announced, our litigating position in thesecontracts is going to be that they are not covered by theContract Disputes Act.MR. GELLER: Yes, but the --QUESTION: You'd be in exactly the sameposition.to sue?MR. GELLER: And we would be --QUESTION: Would -- would you have the abilityMR. GELLER: We would be -- because it is aprovision of these contracts, Your Honor, thatincorporates the regulation that states that they are notsubject to the CDA. So this is a proper challenge to thesolicitation as including an illegal term. The contracts,on their face by incorporating this regulation, say youhave no rights under the CDA. It seems to us -- and wethink the law is clear, although the Government never made th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC this challenge, so it's not been briefed -- that theconcessioners have a right to know at the outset, indeciding whether or not to bid, whether the Government isright in asserting that they have no rights under the CDAif they enter into these --QUESTION: Well, if it's an invalid provision,could the contracting party simply contract and then gointo court later on and say, well, this clause isunenforceable?MR. GELLER: Well, I don't know, JusticeKennedy. You would be signing a contract that agrees tothe provision in the contract that says that you have norights enforceable under the CDA. But beyond that, the Government has taken theposition you have no rights enforceable under the CDA. Soit's not clear how you would follow through on your rightsunder that --QUESTION: Well --QUESTION: If you're -- if you're right,Mr. Geller, I suppose your client could go into court andask for a declaratory judgment, even though there'snothing in the contract saying, we want to find out whichprovision of -- as to review applies to us.MR. GELLER: But this is a pre-enforcementchallenge to a regulation -- th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC QUESTION: But that's -- that's the problem.MR. GELLER: But --QUESTION: In the case that I put, I don't thinkyou could get declaratory relief until you've alleged thatthere was going to be a dispute. You can say, yes, I --MR. GELLER: But there is a --QUESTION: -- I might have an argument down theline and I want to know where I want to go. That seems tome --MR. GELLER: But -- but, Justice Kennedy, the --QUESTION: -- speculative. I just don't see theharm to your client in waiting.MR. GELLER: The harm, Your Honor, is in notknowing, at the time you're being asked to bid oncontracts, what your rights are under those contracts. QUESTION: So it's --MR. GELLER: It's like any other provision. QUESTION: Is it established -- I mean, my -- myguess is it is, but -- but if the Government, the DefenseDepartment, any other Department, presents a -- a privateindividual with a contract with conditions and one ofthose conditions, in the view of the private person, isunlawful, not authorized by statute, contrary to statute,that that person, before bidding on the contract, can goto court and say, I would like this set aside as unlawful. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC MR. GELLER: I think that there is a --QUESTION: Is there authority on that? MR. GELLER: I think that there's --QUESTION: If there is authority on that, Iguess that's the end of it. You're right.MR. GELLER: Yes, I think there is authorityunder -- under the -- under the Tucker Act, which is oneof the provisions of -- that we cited in the complaint,that allows you to bring challenges to bid solicitationson the ground that they --QUESTION: And these regulations areincorporated into the contract.MR. GELLER: And these -- these are --absolutely regulations are incorporated into the contract.QUESTION: What is the authority, Mr. Geller? You said there is --MR. GELLER: I think it's section . I mean,it -- it is one of the provisions that we relied on inthe -- in the complaint in this case to bring thischallenge.And I might say to the Court --QUESTION: Is there -- is there any case thatsupports this particular --MR. GELLER: Yes, there are, but -- but I wasabout to say, Mr. Chief Justice, that this -- that the th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC Government has never challenged ripeness, and that's notsuggest -- it is not to suggest that it's not somethingthat this Court can consider, but I think it's unfair todecide that issue on the -- when it hasn't been fullybriefed by the parties. It's never been challenged at anytime in this case. QUESTION: Unless it force -- unless the failureto consider it forces us to decide a case on -- on factsthat we find, you know, rather amorphous.MR. GELLER: But they're not amorphous, JusticeScalia --QUESTION: That's the purpose of the ripenessdoctrine --MR. GELLER: -- because --QUESTION: -- to make it easier for us to decide the case.MR. GELLER: I'm not suggesting the Courtdoesn't have the authority to do it. I'm suggesting theissue has not been briefed, that we did present the TuckerAct as the basis for jurisdiction in the Court --QUESTION: Then is the issue before us --MR. GELLER: Excuse me?QUESTION: Is the issue before us whether thethree contracts that are in the record are procurementcontracts within the meaning of the statute? th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC MR. GELLER: Yes.QUESTION: And that's ripe because --MR. GELLER: Yes. QUESTION: -- you have members of yourassociation who are considering bidding on contractsthat contain -- that those three contracts, which areuniversal -- and they don't want to do it if -- or may ormay not want to if that -- that term is lawful. But theymight do it if it's --MR. GELLER: That's precisely -- that'sprecisely right. QUESTION: And may I ask one other -- otherquestion? The -- court of appeals addressed this partof -- of the case under its Roman III -- Roman III, Ithink, the Contract Disputes Act. Did the Contract Disputes Act issue -- question have anything to do withthe other argument about whether or not these concessionsare renewed? In other words, if a -- if it's not a --these are just freestanding --MR. GELLER: Yes.QUESTION: -- issues unrelated. MR. GELLER: Yes, yes. QUESTION: All right. Thank you. MR. GELLER: Yes, they are.QUESTION: Mr. Geller, one other thing that I'm th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC curious about. Why does it matter? Why do you care --MR. GELLER: It --QUESTION: -- whether it's covered by the CDA?MR. GELLER: Because the --QUESTION: What's at stake here --MR. GELLER: That's important --QUESTION: -- in the real world?MR. GELLER: That's a very important question,Justice O'Connor. What is at stake are the rights --the -- the rights, the substantive and the proceduralrights, that are available to -- to a Governmentcontractor if it -- it gets into a dispute with the --with the contracting agency. Now, under the CDA, there are very importantprocedural and substantive rights that are available that would not be available under other law, and that's -- thatwas --QUESTION: Well, like what? I mean, what --MR. GELLER: For example --QUESTION: -- what's at stake?MR. GELLER: What's at stake principally is,first of all, an administrative mechanism, which is theseboards of contract appeals, that would -- are available todecide these matters expeditiously and particularly withsmall claims without having to go to court. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC QUESTION: As opposed to what?MR. GELLER: As opposed to having to go tocourt, as opposed to having to go to the Court of FederalClaims where it's not even clear what the standard ofreview would be. The standard of review under the CDA isde novo. So that's a very important substantive andprocedural right, in addition to --QUESTION: De novo for who? For the contractboard or for the court if you go --MR. GELLER: Both. After the contractingofficer decides an issue adversely to the contractor underthe CDA, the contractor has the choice either to go to theBoard of Contract Appeals or to file a lawsuit in theCourt of Federal Claims. In either event, the review isde novo.QUESTION: And if he chooses the contract board,then the -- the next step, the court step will be --MR. GELLER: In the Federal Circuit.QUESTION: Directly to the circuit.MR. GELLER: Right. QUESTION: You wouldn't go to the --MR. GELLER: Right.QUESTION: And that wouldn't be de novo, I takeit.MR. GELLER: No, it wouldn't be de novo. That th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC would be appellate.QUESTION: But the main thing, as I understoodit, was that you're trying to get out of the agencyappeals. You don't want to have to go through the agency.This gets you right into court after the --MR. GELLER: No.QUESTION: -- contracting officer. Am I rightabout that?MR. GELLER: No, and it's not right, JusticeBreyer. Actually what we want to be able to do is toavoid having to follow whatever procedures the agency setsup in its contract for -- for seeking review if there's adispute. We want to go --QUESTION: But why can't you do that? That'swhat you've been doing all along. That's why you -- you have the several decisions of the IBCA. Every time you goto the IBCA, they say, yes.MR. GELLER: Yes, but the Interior Departmentand the NPS has not acceded to those decisions, and it hasissued a regulation that is --QUESTION: But then isn't -- isn't theappropriate thing to go? You go to the IBCA. If theGovernment wants to challenge the jurisdiction that theywill exercise, the resolution that they make, then it's upto the Government. But you can go to the IBCA. They have th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC been welcoming you.MR. GELLER: Well, those were all prior to theGovernment's issuance of the regulation in this case, aregulation that's now been upheld by the D.C. Circuit.QUESTION: Well, but you -- you say theGovernment's issuance of a --MR. GELLER: The NPS.QUESTION: It's the National Park Service.MR. GELLER: Yes, yes. Well, that's what we'redealing with here.QUESTION: There's some dispute as to whetherthey even have the authority to issue it.MR. GELLER: They don't, in fact, administer theCDA, Your Honor, so we don't think this is a regulationthat's entitled to any deference. Nonetheless, it's their position.QUESTION: They -- they seem to agree with youon this point. I mean, they've -- they've agreed in theirterms that it's not a legislative regulation in that --MR. GELLER: Right.QUESTION: -- footnote or --MR. GELLER: Right. QUESTION: -- whatever it is. What does that doto -- to our jurisdiction? I mean, is -- is -- are -- areyou now both -- th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC MR. GELLER: I don't think --QUESTION: -- in effect, claiming that thisso-called regulation is nothing but the Government'sstatement of the intention to take a position when andif --MR. GELLER: Well, the --QUESTION: -- the time comes?MR. GELLER: Our view is that this is aregulation that represents the views of the NPS. It's notentitled to any deference because it's not a statute thatthey administer. The Government would have to give youits view of how much deference it is entitled to.QUESTION: Well, how do you read the --MR. GELLER: But this is still an APA --QUESTION: How do you read their concession in the footnote? Because apparently --MR. GELLER: I find that --QUESTION: -- I -- I take it that is new, by theway. MR. GELLER: I find that --QUESTION: Am I correct?MR. GELLER: -- footnote very confusing.QUESTION: So you -- you're recallingchallenging not the -- not the ineffective regulation, butrather the inclusion of what the regulation says -- th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC MR. GELLER: We're challenging both. QUESTION: -- in the contracts. Is that --MR. GELLER: We're challenging both. We broughtan APA challenge to the regulation, as well as a TuckerAct challenge and a pre-bid solicitation challenge to theinclusion of these -- this -- this illegal term in the --in the contracts.QUESTION: But isn't it the case that unless youhave an -- an APA issue, there's nothing else that you canlitigate at this point? I mean, if the only thing thatyou have to complain about is that they want to put a termin a contract that you think they shouldn't be putting in,it's up to you to decide whether you want to contract iton those terms or not.MR. GELLER: No, because I think under the law we're entitled to challenge that solicitation as illegal. We have to bid on these contracts, we're entitled toknow --QUESTION: No, but at this stage of the game,they're not claiming that their regulation is -- is whatthey call a legislative regulation. MR. GELLER: They are claiming that that is theposition that they're going to take and that it isentitled to some level of deference.QUESTION: Well -- th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC MR. GELLER: That footnote clearly says that itis entitled to some level of deference.QUESTION: And --MR. GELLER: This is clearly the position, andit's been upheld by the D.C. Circuit. There's no reasonto suggest they're not going to adamantly enforce their --their views.QUESTION: But then -- but if the case isn'tripe and we should so hold, I assume the appropriate thingto do would be to vacate the D.C. Circuit's decision tothat extent. MR. GELLER: Yes.QUESTION: So then you'll be -- what you wouldbe -- have is the Government has told you in advance whatits litigating position would be and it has no more meaning than a -- a statement of what the Government's --MR. GELLER: But it is --QUESTION: -- position is with no -- no --MR. GELLER: But, Justice Ginsburg, as I said,there's still this provision in all of the contracts.QUESTION: The Government would still be askingyou to enter a contract --MR. GELLER: The Government would still beasking us to accede to a position and sign a contract thatcontains a term which we believe is illegal that says we th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC have no rights under the CDA.QUESTION: Well, what -- what if the Governmentcontract had a term that simply said, you know, therewould be damages for delay, double damages depending onthe amount of delay? And you say, well, I -- we don'tthink the Government is authorized to put that in acontract. Could you challenge that?MR. GELLER: Yes. I believe so, Mr. ChiefJustice. There is a very large body of Governmentcontracting law -- it's not in the briefs because itwasn't raised -- allowing --QUESTION: Well, is it --MR. GELLER: -- allowing these sorts ofchallenges to illegal terms in contracts.QUESTION: But where is the law? I mean, is it in the cases of this Court?MR. GELLER: Well, obviously, these -- thesecases are generally litigated in the -- in the Court ofFederal Claims and in the district courts.QUESTION: Is -- is that where the law is, inthe Court of Federal Claims?MR. GELLER: Yes. Well, there are probably someappellate decisions as well, but the law is fairlywell-settled in this area. As I say, the Government hasnever challenged the ripeness of the CDA -- th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC QUESTION: Mr. Geller, you say -- you say it'ssettled, and please correct me if I'm wrong if -- ifAbbott Laboratories has been overtaken. But my notion wasthat in order to have a pre-enforcement challenge, you hadto have a pretty strong claim that you are hurting now, asthey were, if they didn't -- if they spent all that money.MR. GELLER: Yes. Abbott Laboratories is -- isobviously an APA case. I think we could meet thatstandard because we need to know now whether we should bidon these contracts. But there's a separate body of law involvingsolicitations for Government contracts is what I'm sayingto the Court.QUESTION: And does that get you --QUESTION: That -- that's your stronger card I think. MR. GELLER: Yes. QUESTION: And does that give you an APA causeof action?MR. GELLER: Well, we brought both an APA causeof action and a challenge under the -- under the TuckerAct, and you know, we would maintain that we can challengethis regulation, and in addition, we can challenge thisbid solicitation. The two really overlap because theregulation is incorporated into the contract. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC QUESTION: Was there any finding in the districtcourt that the inclusion of this provision was critical asto whether or not you'd go ahead with the contract?MR. GELLER: There was no such --QUESTION: I mean, I --MR. GELLER: There -- there was no such --QUESTION: -- I find it a little hard -- if it'sa -- if it's a really good contract, you I suppose intendto comply with it and you don't think there's going to beany litigation at all.MR. GELLER: Well, Your -- there was -- therewas no finding by the district court, Your Honor, becausethere was not -- there was no challenge to the ripeness bythe Government, but the -- the complaint, as I recall, didmake that allegation. The complaint made the allegation that the contractors needed to know whether thesecontracts were covered by the CDA.QUESTION: When you say these --QUESTION: Well, could it make the furtherallegation that if it -- if it were not -- that if itwere -- were not covered, it would not engage in thenegotiations at all?MR. GELLER: I don't specifically recall thatallegation.QUESTION: It's a commercial matter. It's hard th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC for me to see it if there's an advantageous contract, butyou're not going to execute it --MR. GELLER: Well, but it's a question of how --QUESTION: -- if you go through one form ofremedy or the other in the event of a breach. MR. GELLER: But it's not binary, JusticeKennedy. Maybe you would still enter into the contractnegotiations. It's one factor in deciding how much you'llbid on the contract.QUESTION: Mr. Geller, you -- when you say thesecontracts --MR. GELLER: Yes.QUESTION: -- you keep referring to thesecontracts. They're -- actually you're talking about threecontract forms. You're -- you're not discussing any particular --MR. GELLER: Well, there are --QUESTION: -- bid solicitation. You -- you haveno particular bid solicitation, do you? MR. GELLER: Well, no. Well, that's notprecisely true, Justice Scalia, because there were bidsolicitations. In the district court, there were -- therewere lawsuits brought both by the National ParkHospitality Association on behalf of its members, as wellas -- as lawsuits brought by several concessioners th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC challenging specific bid solicitations as to them. And --and therefore, there was both facial and as-applied, ineffect, challenges to the -- to the CDA point in the -- inthe --QUESTION: What they say then is theGovernment -- as far as I understand it, the basic pointis that this is not a procurement contract regardless ofwho's entitled to what deference. And the reason that itisn't is because we are not buying anything, and thatisn't a technical point. That is an important pointbecause you and us -- you, the private, and we, theGovernment -- are both in the business of selling thingsto the Government. We need somewhat more control over theinterpretation of these contracts. And that's why thenumber of procedures you have to go through in the parks department is greater, and all the things that you don'tlike about it are things we do like about it. Namely, weget a little bit added control. But that's whylegitimately these are not procurement contracts.Now, your point in response to roughly that,or --MR. GELLER: Well --QUESTION: I'm just trying to get you to themerits, so I thought I'd --MR. GELLER: Yes. I'd like to turn to the th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC merits. Thank you, Justice Breyer. Can I -- I'd like to begin by saying it's purelya matter of statutory construction, and we think that thestatute on its face unambiguously answers the questionbefore the Court. And I think it would be helpful if theCourt could look at section (a) of the Contract DisputesAct which -- which appears in many places, includingpage of the blue brief, because you'll see that section(a) states that unless specifically excluded therein, theCDA applies to, quote, any express or implied contractentered into by an executive agency for, among otherthings, the procurement of services or the procurement ofconstruction, repair, or maintenance of real property.QUESTION: The reason that doesn't help you isbecause --MR. GELLER: The --QUESTION: -- the question is what'sprocurement.MR. GELLER: Well, I'm not sure that that'snecessarily the question, but let me address it this way,Your Honor.The National Park Service does not contend thatits concessions contracts are not contracts within themeaning of the CDA. It doesn't contend that it's not anexecutive agency. And the NPS doesn't contend that any th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC provision of the CDA or, for that matter, any otherFederal statute specifically excludes these contracts fromthe -- from the CDA. And, Justice Breyer, the NPS reallydoesn't even take issue with the fact that theseconcessions contracts procure services and procure theconstruction, repair, and maintenance of real property. In other words, every single statutory requirement on theface of the statute would seem to be satisfied --QUESTION: But I thought they did challenge thatthese are -- that it's procurement.MR. GELLER: They do not challenge, Your Honor,that -- that these contracts procure services --QUESTION: In the -- in the sense of procurementas used in Government contracting?MR. GELLER: Well, I think that's the issue in the case. The Government claims --QUESTION: That's -- that's the issue in thecase. MR. GELLER: The Government --QUESTION: I tried to --MR. GELLER: And I would like to turn to thatnow because the Government claims that these contracts arenot within the protection of the CDA. And why? Itsentire argument amounts to the following. The Government says that the word procurement th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC and the phrase, procurement contract, we are told, have auniversally understood and well-settled meaning. And theytell us that to qualify as a procurement contract, theGovernment says, an acquisition must be for the direct useand benefit of the Government and it must be paid for withwhat the Government calls Government funds.Now, the first thing to be said, Justice Breyer,about the Government's argument is that it is a completeinvention. It is a complete invention. No Federalstatute defines the word procurement or the word,procurement contract, to include the two requirements thatthe Government tells us are essential. In fact, theOffice of Federal Procurement Policy Act -- the Governmentcites lots and lots of --QUESTION: Well, the word procurement has a natural meaning. If they -- if they have a concessionaireto come and sell balloons on the Fourth of July, theydon't say they've procured some balloons. They saythey've arranged for some balloons.MR. GELLER: Well, you'd say arranged. Youcould say they procured having someone sell balloons atthe Fourth of July. The -- the Office of Federal Procurement PolicyAct --QUESTION: No, but that -- that -- that's not th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC the usual meaning of -- of procure, I should think.MR. GELLER: But the -- but there is no statutethat -- the Office of Federal Procurement Policy Act,which is a companion statute to the CDA, actually has adefinition of the word procurement. You wouldn't know itfrom reading the Government's brief because in their -- itdoesn't refer to that, but it contains a definition of theword procurement that does not contain either of the tworequirements that the Government tells us are essential toa Government procurement. No court has ever construed the word procurementto include the two requirements that the Government tellsus are clearly established and well-settled by Federalprocurement --QUESTION: Mr. Geller --QUESTION: What about acquiring --QUESTION: -- I'm looking at page of theGovernment's brief, and they -- they define procurement. They're taking it from the -- the Federal acquisitionregulations to say acquiring by contract with appropriatedfunds supplies or services by and for the use of theFederal Government. So --MR. GELLER: Yes. That's -- that's not astatute, but let me address that, Justice Ginsburg. First of all, appropriated funds. It is th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC clear -- and the Government has not challenged the fact --that the CDA applies to contracts even when appropriatedfunds are not used. That's clear on the face of the CDA. So the Government is forced to come -- come up with thisnew phrase, Government funds, which has, as far as we cantell, no basis at all in any prior statute or any Federalprocurement law. And the fact --QUESTION: It does have a basis in just whatJustice Ginsburg was quoting, C.F.R. .. So theysay it's not without foundation in the law. What -- whatthat's from is, I take it, it's a memo that -- or a policyissued jointly by the Secretary of Defense, theAdministrator of General Services, and the NPSAdministrator. So when they have a reg like that, I'd --I'd think that it's not so that it isn't somewhere in Federal law. It's right there.Now, there are some other things there --MR. GELLER: But --QUESTION: -- that you say are not necessarilypart of procurement. But that fact that there are otherthings that overstate it doesn't mean this does.MR. GELLER: But, Your Honor, there are manyother -- the Government principally relies on otherstatutes that have the -- have certain provisions like theones they would like to introduce into the CDA in them. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC But I think it's quite significant that Congress didn'tput these provisions in the CDA.QUESTION: But what about -- he put one in -- inthe CDA, U.S.C., section (c). It's discussed at thebottom of page and the top of page of -- of theGovernment's brief. And what it says is that the monetaryawards in favor of a contractor will be paid out of thejudgment fund and in turn provides for the reimbursementto the judgment fund, quote, by the agency whoseappropriations were used for the contract, which wouldsuggest that in all cases --MR. GELLER: I don't think it -- it does not --QUESTION: -- where there's been a judgment --MR. GELLER: It doesn't suggest that at all,Justice Scalia. First of all, they only quote that incompletely. It also --QUESTION: Yes, well, tell me why. I -- I knowthat your --MR. GELLER: In -- in our --QUESTION: -- reply brief -- I don't see howthe -- the --MR. GELLER: In our reply brief, it says, bysuch appropriated -- by -- by the appropriations of thatagency or such other appropriations as the agency has toget. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC Now, the NPS is a -- a --QUESTION: But -- but it clearly envisionsappropriations, whether they have it already or they haveto get it later. MR. GELLER: But the -- the CDA on its face --and the Government concedes this -- applies to contractsthat don't involve appropriated funds agencies.QUESTION: Well, we'll ask the Government aboutthat. That's a -- that's a much more serious point.MR. GELLER: Yes. I think it's clear there'sno -- there's no doubt that the CDA applies to anycontract whether or not it's an appropriated funds agencyor not.Let me just say that in addition to being, Ithink, totally unsupported as a matter of law, the limitations that the NPS asks this Court to read into theCDA would be completely unworkable as a matter ofpractice. I think we've already talked about theGovernment funds point which is, I think, a phrase thatthey have dreamt up. It has no basis in law, unlikeappropriated funds, which is not the case of the CDA.But I think it's also the case that this use orbenefit to the Government notion is completely unworkable. If, for example, the NPS were to go out and procure watercoolers for use in the Department of Interior building, th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC the NPS would concede that those would be within theContract Disputes Act because they're -- they're for theuse and benefit of the Government. If the Government wereto go out and procure the same water coolers for use onthe Mall during the Fourth of July, the Court -- the NPSwould say, well, that's not for the use or benefit of theGovernment. I don't know how you could decide what is forthe use or benefit of the Government.When -- if the Government -- if the NPS issues acontract to build a -- the World War II Memorial on theMall, which is now being -- is now happening, is that forthe use of the public or it is used for the Government? We don't think this is a defensible position, and itcertainly finds no basis in the CDA. We think it's anirrational reading of the act that has no support in the language or the legislative history or the purpose of thestatute. And I want to say that even if there was a useor benefit to the Government limitation in the CDA, wethink it would -- these contracts would still clearlysatisfy it because these concessions contracts are beinglet in part to help the Department of Interior, the NPSfulfill its statutory mission. If these concessions werenot there operating these restaurants or guest facilities,the NPS would have to operate them themselves in order to th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC satisfy its -- the statutory requirement that they providefor the use and enjoyment of the national parks. So wedon't think it's possible to say that these concessioncontracts the -- that the NPS is completely indifferent tothese concession contracts. They are clearly for the useand benefit not only of the public, but also of the NPS.If the Court has no further questions, I'd liketo reserve the balance of my time. QUESTION: Very well, Mr. Geller.Mr. Elwood, we'll hear from you.ORAL ARGUMENT OF JOHN P. ELWOODON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTMR. ELWOOD: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice, andmay it please the Court:QUESTION: Will you tell us why the Government doesn't want the CDA applicable here? I mean, what's --what's at stake for the Government in not applying it?MR. ELWOOD: Justice -- Justice O'Connor, thereason why the Government doesn't want this applicablehere is that the Contract Dispute Act was passed toaddress specific shortcomings in the remedial scheme thatwas available for procurement contracts, and because itwas designed specifically for those purposes, it have --has terms that we don't think are appropriate in thiscontext. For example -- th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC QUESTION: But that just doesn't tell me, as apractical matter, why the Government doesn't want itapplicable here.MR. ELWOOD: For example, the pre-judgmentinterest remedy. Congress --QUESTION: You don't want to pay pre-judgmentinterest. MR. ELWOOD: Right, and we don't think it'sappropriate. Congress provided pre-judgment interest inthe procurement context because procurement contractorswould be required to perform under the contract evenduring the pendency of a dispute when they weren't beingpaid. And it was because of that unique position wherethey were both being required to make outlays withoutgetting any income that Congress thought that because there was a --QUESTION: Okay. So at bottom, that's it, thepre-judgment interest feature.MR. ELWOOD: I -- I think that and because --there are other things as well. For example, the purposeof the -- one of the purposes of the CDA was to cutthrough all of these requirements that you exhaustadministrative remedies, but those simply aren't presentin the concessions context. Traditionally concessionershad a direct right of access to courts, and Congress has th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC never indicated that they thought the remedial scheme wasinadequate for concessioners. And --QUESTION: Is this -- is this claim ripe? Andwhy didn't you ever talk about it below? What's going on? It's -- it comes in such an odd posture. What is theGovernment's view on that?MR. ELWOOD: The reason why we did not raisethis -- why we did not raise this is because we did notraise it below. And as you can tell from the pleadings --QUESTION: Why not? MR. ELWOOD: -- is -- because the CDA was kindof a side show below. It was a relatively small issue andit was just not the focus of the proceedings, as you cantell by the opinion. But I think that the Court has raised valid concerns about the ripeness in this sense. The Court hastraditionally said in a pre-enforcement challenge to aregulation that a claim is ripe if it affects primaryconduct so that -- so that if they don't comply, theymight be held liable. That's the Abbott Labs line ofcases. And here this doesn't affect primary conduct. It -- it predominantly just says whether or not -- whichforum you're going to have a remedy in.QUESTION: Well, I -- I would agree -- th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC QUESTION: What about this -- what about the --the reply? I came in thinking ripeness was a problem, andyour brother on the other side gave to me what was a veryconvincing answer. What's wrong with that answer?MR. ELWOOD: And that is -- the thing is becauseit predominantly just determines which forum you have --which forum you bring your claim in, I don't know --QUESTION: I know it doesn't affect -- but whatthey're saying is that where the Government offers generalcontracts to the industry and there is a term in all ofthose contracts which, in the view of the industry, isunlawful, they -- it's ripe for them to challenge that. Now, what I'm afraid here would be that we or you orsomebody, in deciding whether that's an incorrectargument, would upset what could be -- I have no idea if it is -- a practice of contractors objecting to terms inoffered contracts as contrary to law. So are you saying now that that is not ripe? Are you saying that a contractor who comes into a courtand objects to a term in a proposed contract as contraryto law does not have a claim because it is not ripe? Isthat the Government's position?MR. ELWOOD: No, I don't think that would be ourposition. If it affects their primary --QUESTION: No. I would think probably you would th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC at least want to brief it.MR. ELWOOD: Right. I think that if it affects their primaryconduct, if affects what their obligations would be underthe contract, I think that that claim would be ripe forpre-enforcement review. But where it simply determineswhich forum they'll bring the claim in, I don't think itwould be covered.QUESTION: But they said it's the first that'sat issue here. Now, is it not because -- you heard whathe said. So --MR. ELWOOD: That -- that's correct. But Ithink simply because it determines which forum you bringyour claim in, I don't think it would be covered. If Iwere --QUESTION: So you -- so there's a disputebetween the two sides on what the case law says as towhether -- and it isn't even a general -- a general attackupon the form of -- upon a form contract. But as weunderstand from petitioners, there were particular bidsoutstanding that were challenged because -- because of aterm in them that -- that was claimed to be unlawful. Andit is your position that you cannot challenge a particularbid because of an unlawful term unless that unlawful termaffects your primary conduct. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC MR. ELWOOD: No. If it affects something other,I think, than the forum in which it was brought, I mean,if it affects what you think your obligations will be,if -- if it affects the price that you think you shouldpay or that you should bid on a contract, I think thatthat would be --QUESTION: Well, it -- it does on your analysis.MR. ELWOOD: -- subject to pre-enforcementreview.QUESTION: Doesn't it? I mean, you said one ofthe things that is important is pre-judgment interest. SoI -- I suppose their liability under the contract is goingto be affected by -- by the correctness of the reg.MR. ELWOOD: I don't think their liability --QUESTION: Their primary conduct won't be, but their potential liability, if there is a contract dispute,would be.MR. ELWOOD: Your Honor, I confess that I am notsure if the Government gets pre-judgment interest underthe CDA or not. But if it were -- if -- if it simply ranto the contractors, I think that -- that the prospectiveinterest on a claim that has not even arisen yet seems alittle vague --QUESTION: Why is that vague? I mean, they --they have to make a bid. They have accountants. These th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC are big companies. They calculate everything down to thefinest penny, and -- and they say, you know, we take intoaccount whether we're going to get pre-judgment interest,which we -- if we have a dispute. And by the way, we haveone dispute every hours, and so it's a lot of money tous. And we will bid $. less if we're not gettingthe -- whatever. All right? So they work it all out. They have accountants who do it. And so, if that's so -- of course, if it isn'tso, it's a different story. But they've said somethinglike that's so.MR. ELWOOD: I think it -- it would turn on --in that case I just don't think that in advance you cansay with enough sort of concreteness and specificity thatyou know how much a particular claim -- the -- the as-yet unfiled, unrealized contract claims would be worth. Youcould say --QUESTION: But, Mr. Elwood, isn't it really --isn't a waiver of pre-judgment interest comparable to awaiver of punitive damages, for example, which if youinsist on it, would affect the -- the amount one would bidfor a contract? I don't understand why you say it's worthnothing. MR. ELWOOD: I mean --QUESTION: I mean, it's something -- if the th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC Government is willing to fight about it here and insist --and put it in every contract, it must be of value to theGovernment. MR. ELWOOD: What is actually -- just if I couldclarify this. What is put into the contract is just ageneral term that applicable law will apply and becauseapplicable law includes all regulations, it isincorporated that way. It doesn't specifically include aCDA waiver or anything of that sort.QUESTION: So the contract itself does notspecify that the CDA does not apply.MR. ELWOOD: No. It just says applicable lawgoverns the contract.But I think it's just a matter --QUESTION: And is it -- is it your view, since you said your -- your interpretation now of the -- theposition that the Park Service is taking that it -- itdoesn't constitute law? How can it constitute law? Firstof all, the Contract Dispute Act is not within the ParkService bailiwick. It isn't -- as you concede, it isn'tthe -- doesn't administer this act. So does thatregulation constitute any kind of law?MR. ELWOOD: I think that that's a valid concernbecause our position is that this is basically just aninterpretive rule announcing the position that the Park th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC Service will take and the Park -- and the position thatthe Park Service employees will take in administering it.QUESTION: So you're saying -- you -- you claimthat this provision is not incorporated in the contracts. Is that the position the Government is taking?MR. ELWOOD: I think -- honestly, JusticeScalia, I think it's just -- it's a -- it's a newproposition for me, and I think that a good argument couldbe made that it does not include it because it -- itreally just represents the position of the National ParkService.QUESTION: Even leaving aside the question ofinclusion, what is -- what do you understand yourdifference to be from the petitioners with respect to thestatus of the regulation itself? Is there any difference at all?MR. ELWOOD: I don't know that there is a -- adifference with respect to the petitioner's view. It's aninterpretive rule that the Park Service has --QUESTION: Have we got any jurisdiction left?MR. ELWOOD: I believe so because it is theannounced position. It's not just a policy statement. Itis basically a directive to the --QUESTION: Yes, but what's the differencebetween a policy statement and an announced position? th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC The -- the point at which each one is going to havepractical effect is the point at which there is a claimedbreach and an argument, if there is one, over what theremedial process is.MR. ELWOOD: Yes, but I think that the onlydifference would be the -- the principal difference wouldbe policy statements are more -- involve more variance inthat they say as a general policy we will do this, whereasthe -- as an interpretive rule, it just says that we donot believe that concession contracts are procurementcontracts.QUESTION: What -- what is the position of theGovernment? Now, I know this is hitting you cold, but Ithink it would be helpful. Position one. We have not thought of ripeness before, and the case has been argued and submitted on theassumption that, for example, the bidding would beaffected by this term which is incorporated into thecontract. That's been the assumption, and we see noreason to depart from it. It's not jurisdictional. Sodecide the issue we briefed. That's position one.Position two. We haven't thought of ripenessbefore, but now that we think about it, we think it'squite a serious problem and we're not certain what the --what the -- what the issue is in ordinary contracts, and th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC we're not certain whether it's incorporated. So we thinkyou should say that this case is not ripe. Now, do you take position one, which will meanwe perhaps could go to decide the issue for which it wasgranted, or do you take position two, which means you seeripeness as a big problem here that we ought to look atfurther?MR. ELWOOD: Well, Justice Breyer, it's clearlybeen the position of the Court that it is not bound by thefailure of the parties to raise it. That's in Reno versusCatholic Social Services, and of course, you can raiseit --QUESTION: I'm not asking you what the law isexactly. I'm asking you what's the Government's position.MR. ELWOOD: I -- I think our position would be -- I mean, we -- we filed a brief in opposition and Ithink, you know, if -- if we can win on ripeness grounds,that's great too. QUESTION: Well, you wouldn't necessarily --(Laughter.) QUESTION: You wouldn't necessarily win. Imean, I -- I don't know if you would win. I mean --MR. ELWOOD: Right. We might lose the -- thejudgment of the D.C. Circuit as well, but --QUESTION: You -- you would have to. If it's th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC not ripe, we'd have to vacate it to that extent. Butthis -- in the D.C. Circuit --QUESTION: Put you back to square one. No --QUESTION: In the D.C. Circuit, this was agiant, one of those typical wholesale attacks on many,many regulations, on the whole -- on the whole rulemaking. Is that correct?MR. ELWOOD: That's correct, Your Honor. QUESTION: And this was just a tiny, tiny pieceof a long, long opinion --MR. ELWOOD: That's correct, Your Honor. QUESTION: -- treating -- so maybe just nobodynoticed.QUESTION: It seems unfair to pick it apart inthis way. Just a little part of a major opinion. MR. ELWOOD: Well, I think that it -- it justpoints out the fact that, I mean, they -- they had anawful lot on their plate, and it perhaps eluded them forthat reason. QUESTION: Now, the as-applied/facial. Was theas-applied challenges -- did those center on this issue ordid they relate to the -- to another issue?MR. ELWOOD: They related to other claims,Justice Ginsburg. Xanterra has characterized their claimas an as-applied claim although they're -- they're not th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC asking for as-applied review in this case. But if youlook at their -- their complaint, their complaint involvedtheir intention to bid on an as-yet unreleased prospectus. And so, in that sense, I don't think that is an as-appliedchange for two -- for two reasons. Not only is there nocontract dispute, but at the time that the complaint wasfiled, there was no contract. So we think that it wouldbe a facial challenge.QUESTION: Mr. Elwood, if I can assist you ingiving the merits here, is it -- is it the case, as thepetitioners contend, that the Government concedes that notall contracts covered by the CDA are contracts in whichappropriated funds are used?MR. ELWOOD: That's correct. To the extent thatit covers non-appropriated fund instrumentalities, it covers contracts that would involve the expenditure ofnon-appropriated funds. Those are, however, Governmentfunds, funds of Government entities known as non-appropriated fund instrumentalities. QUESTION: Well, once you slip off fromappropriated into -- into Government funds, you don't putany -- you don't have any statutory text you can appeal toas -- as separating out the CDA from -- from your ParkService concessions. MR. ELWOOD: I -- I don't agree, Justice Scalia. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC Both the -- well, to begin with, just in terms of givingan indication of what the commonly accepted meaning of theterm was at the time, the Commission on GovernmentProcurement Reform, which was the -- which was the impetusfor all of these reforms, defined procurement as purchaseof product or service for Federal use, which incorporatesboth a -- a notion of expenditure and Federal use. Andboth the -- the act --QUESTION: Yes, but Federal use, of course -- itis of use to the Park Service to have facilities availableto the public. So that doesn't really answer thequestion. The parks -- the Park Service wants parksavailable to the public with services in them, restroomsand buildings and restaurants and so forth. Doesn't it? So in a sense, it is for the use of the Park Service and the Government as well as for the public.MR. ELWOOD: It is for the use -- well, it isnot for the direct use of the National Park Service, andthat is where the Federal grant and cooperative agreementcomes in. months before passage of the CDA, Congressexplained its understanding of what different types ofinstruments would be used for, and it explained in thatthat a procurement contract would be an instrument whoseprincipal purpose is the acquisition by purchase, lease,or barter of goods or services for the direct use and th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC benefit of the Government. And --QUESTION: Well, it doesn't really say that. And the language in the CDA is broad, and presumably thiswas a -- an act that was presumed to have broadapplication.MR. ELWOOD: It was presumed to have broadapplication among procurement contracts. There's noindication that they did not intend the word procurementto have the ordinary meaning that it does in that sense,as indicated in the Commission on Government ProcurementReform and the way it was used there, as indicated in the act creating the commission and the OFPP Act wherethe simple use -- word procurement was understood tomean --QUESTION: Was -- was there ever any amendment offered in Congress to make clear that it didn't apply toconcession contracts?MR. ELWOOD: There was no -- no, there was noindication in the entire legislative history that the --that concessions came up, and in , pages of reports onboth procurement and non-appropriated fund procurement,there was not a single mention of -- of -- national parksconcessions. QUESTION: And how long -- at -- at any pointdid the CDA -- was it applied or followed with any th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC concession contracts, or is this something that has arisenrecently? Was it used at one point?MR. ELWOOD: There are a number of Armed ServiceBoard of Contract Appeals that assume CDA jurisdiction,and the Board of Contract Appeals of the Department ofInterior started using it in . But I'm not familiarwith usage prior to that --QUESTION: These are for what concessions? PS -- PX concessions, for example? MR. ELWOOD: Yes, Justice Scalia. QUESTION: Well, why isn't that -- I mean --because I was about to ask that question because I thoughtyou're drawing the distinction between a concession toprovide food and hot dogs and amusement to visitors to thepark, which you say is not covered by the CDA, and it seems to me, a contract to provide food and hot dogsand -- I don't know -- maybe amusement -- I don't knowwhat they have at PX's -- to members of the armed forces. Why isn't at least the latter, although it's a concessioncontract, why isn't that clearly for the benefit of theGovernment even -- even in the narrow sense in which youuse that term? MR. ELWOOD: No, Justice Scalia. We would -- wewould agree that that is for the benefit of theGovernment. It's -- it doesn't involve the expenditure of th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC Government funds, but it's for the benefit of theGovernment. And for this reason --QUESTION: So that would be covered by the CDA.MR. ELWOOD: I -- I don't believe it necessarilywould because it doesn't involve the expenditure ofGovernment funds. It's still private contractors comingin and being -- and paying the Government for theopportunity to do that.But as far as the benefit goes, I think agencieshave a direct interest in providing benefits to theiremployees and especially in the PX example because PX's,for example, are basically a fringe benefit for servicemenand women and their dependents in that it's -- it's --basically access is limited to them. And salary andfringe benefits of that sort are how agencies procure employees. That is how they attract and retain qualifiedpersonnel. And in fact, agencies have drawn a distinctionbetween benefits provided to employees and benefitsprovided to the entire public --QUESTION: But isn't that the --QUESTION: You'd say -- it still isn't covered,you say, unless the Government pays out cash. Is thatright?MR. ELWOOD: I think that that would be thebetter view, but I think obviously a stronger argument th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC could be made for concessioners.QUESTION: Well, why did you say it was not inthe legislative history in that respect? What -- what isthis? You -- you quote in your brief -- I just want alittle clarification. There's a committee report. TheSenate report says that, quote, concessions contracts donot constitute contracts for the procurement of goods andservices for the benefit of the Government or otherwise. And -- and there's something odd about that statement, butI got it out of -- you quoted it. And that seems to bethe legislative history of the act, and apparently itisn't. Where -- what's -- what's the status of thatparticular remark? MR. ELWOOD: No. Those are both the -- thoseare committee reports --QUESTION: Yes. MR. ELWOOD: -- for the act. So it's partof the legislative history.QUESTION: So why isn't that legislativehistory?MR. ELWOOD: Oh, it is -- it is -- I don'tknow that I understand your question. QUESTION: It says concessions contracts are notcontracts for procurement of goods and services. MR. ELWOOD: Oh. I was addressing the -- the th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC legislative history of the CDA, not the act.QUESTION: Well, is -- aren't we concerned --oh, the act is which? That's the --MR. ELWOOD: That is the act -- the currentconcession authority, the current authority under whichthe National Park Service issues concession contracts.QUESTION: So what we have is in that act --QUESTION: That was an act that said they're --QUESTION: Yes, I see. I see.QUESTION: -- they're not continuously renewedwith the same --MR. ELWOOD: That's correct. It eliminatedthe --QUESTION: -- provider. It was the act thatsaid, but we're going to terminate these things. MR. ELWOOD: That's correct.QUESTION: When did the Park Service firstinstall this -- when did it first take this position? Itwasn't just under the regulations, as I understand it. When did the Park Service take the position thatconcession contracts were not procurement contracts?MR. ELWOOD: The first time they took thatposition publicly was in in a Board of ContractAppeals case, Yosemite Park & Curry Company. The court --the IBCA, rather, did not address it, though, because it th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC was actually before the effective date of the CDA, andthey took it specifically with respect to the CDA there. But traditionally -- although it's impossible because ofabsence of institutional memory, traditionally concessioncontracts have not been viewed as procurement contracts bythe National Park Service.QUESTION: But they --QUESTION: You indicated that there's a strongerargument in some instances than in others for the factthat it's a concession. A concession contract can be aprocurement contract. Does that go back to our basicquestion about ripeness and we don't know what we'reinvolved with here? Or can we take these contracts where,I take it, they did involve the construction of facilitiesat national parks, et cetera, which does benefit the Government in the long term?MR. ELWOOD: Well, to the extent that the Courtthinks that the specific terms of concession contracts andwhat is accomplished under them affects the determinationof whether or not they're procurements, I think that theCourt would have some difficulty in saying authoritativelywhether they all are or an unacceptably high portion ofthem are procurement contracts without having a betteridea of what is included with them. If I could -- th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC QUESTION: But if -- on a case-by-case basis,then that would indicate the regulation is deficientbecause the regulation doesn't purport to -- to usethis -- this kind of fine distinction. MR. ELWOOD: But still it -- it's something thatcould be addressed in as-applied challenges where youcould say, in my particular case, where it requires me tobuild a lodge or whatever, this is a procurement contract,and under those circumstances it would be very clearexactly what was required of the procurement contractor. And they could -- they could -- of the concessionscontractor and they could determine whether or not thatparticular contract was a procurement.QUESTION: The regulation -- the regulationwould then be invalid to that extent.MR. ELWOOD: Yes, but the Court has held -- thisCourt has indicated in INS versus National Center forImmigrants' Rights, Babbitt versus Sweet Home, and caseslike that that -- that merely because a regulation isinvalid in some applications, it will not be invalidatedon a facial basis. If I could just address specifically --QUESTION: Mr. Elwood, is there anyplace wecould look to see how much pre-judgment interest the ParkService has had to pay each year? Is it a big-ticket th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC item?MR. ELWOOD: It's not a big-ticket item. Theonly three cases in which the -- the CDA has been appliedto national park concessions are the three IBCA casesmentioned, and in two of those, the Government wound upwinning on the merits, so there was no pre-judgmentinterest paid. So it's only in that R&R Enterprises casethat the Government would have paid any pre-judgmentinterest in this case.If I could just go to your example, JusticeKennedy, about the building of buildings on nationalparklands. I believe that is not a procurement for -- fora variety of reasons. First, just as a statisticalmatter, percent of concessions contracts do not involveany capital improvements. And that is a very broad term. It's much broader than just structures. It's structures,unremovable property, and fixtures. But on the merits, many concessions contractorshave been required, since the very beginning of the --of -- of concessions, , to require -- they've beenrequired to build their own buildings. And historicallythat has not been considered something that the Governmentgets. It doesn't get the benefit of those servicesbecause it enters the contracts not for purposes ofgetting a building, but because it wishes to have th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC concessioners provide services to park visitors. And inorder to do that, it tolerates the building. The NationalPark Service doesn't want buildings in the parks. Itwants nature in the parks, and it tolerates the buildingsto the extent that they are used to provide visitorservices. And I think this comes across in the way theseare treated by the contract.Even though the Government has bare title inthese buildings, in a very real sense it doesn't buy them. Every concessioner who builds a building in the nationalparks under a concessions agreement will have a leaseholdsurrender interest equal to the construction cost of thebuilding plus inflation minus depreciation. And theycannot be put out of that building by anyone until theyare paid that leasehold surrender interest; that is, until the building essentially is bought. As long as aconcessioner is operating out of that building, aconcessioner will hold the leasehold surrender interest,not the Government. Also, I think it's telling that the formcontract indicates that if the concessioner ever leavesthe -- ever abandons the building, ever -- that they haveconstructed, that the Government can require them to knockit down and restore the site to its natural -- its naturalstate. That's section b of the standard contract and in th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC the contract that it's in the joint appendix. So again,that's an indication that they're not interested really inprocuring the construction services. They're interestedin authorizing a concessioner to provide services tovisitors to the national parks. Finally, I think it's noteworthy that Congressobviously knew that concessioners would be buildingbuildings under the act, which was enacted againstthe backdrop of this regulation setting forth the ParkService's consistently held view that concessionscontracts are not procurement contracts. And far fromdisplacing that view, they actually seem to embrace itboth in the text of the act and in the legislative historythat Justice Breyer mentioned. As far as the text of the act goes, I think it's telling that -- the different types of language they usefor both the concessions side of the house and theprocurement side of the house. On the concessions side,they use distinct language that I don't think you're goingto find in any procurement statute anywhere. Instead ofsaying procure or purchase, they say they -- the -- thePark Service can authorize concessioners to provideservices, and it even specifies that the services will notbe provided to the Government. It says they're providedto visitors, which is obviously very different from th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC procurement statutes, many of which specifically statethat the service will be provided to the agency.QUESTION: Maybe the Park Service wrote thatportion of the committee report.MR. ELWOOD: No. That -- Justice -- JusticeScalia, that's the actual text of the statute. QUESTION: Okay. MR. ELWOOD: And by contrast with that, theactual text of the procurement provisions of the --section , used typical procurement language andspecified that the Park Service will be benefitting fromit. It says that the -- that the service can enter intomanagement consultant agreements whereby managementconsultants provide services to assist the Secretary inadministering the program. So it's a contrast both -- I think in both ways. Finally, one other thing that I think is tellingis that Congress specifically provided that some of themost likely to arise disputes under the act, includingspecifically franchise-free disputes, which I think peoplewould think would -- would arise frequently, would besubject to mandatory arbitration. And if Congress hadthought there was an administrative remedy for this underthe CDA, I just don't think there would be any need forthem to provide for an -- a mandatory arbitral remedy. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC QUESTION: Mr. Elwood, is the petitioner rightin saying that -- that when the Government sell goods --sells goods, that comes under the CDA?MR. ELWOOD: That is correct. Under (a)(),the -- when the Government disposes of property that isnot -- when the Government -- Government disposes ofpersonal property, those sales are covered by the CDA. However, petitioner has never raised that theory in thisCourt -- in any court. QUESTION: Those are not procurement contracts,are they?MR. ELWOOD: No, but they -- they don't purportto be. If you look at the CDA, the word procurement isalways used in the clause for procurement of services,procurement of construction, repair. And -- and that was tacked on at the end basically because GSA at the timesubjected sales contracts to the same dispute clause, thatwas problematic, that procurement contracts were. Butthat still -- in order to get coverage under the CDA underpetitioner's theory, they still must be a procurementcontract or must involve the procurement of services. If there are no further questions from theCourt.QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. Elwood.Mr. Geller, you have minutes remaining. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF KENNETH S. GELLERON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERMR. GELLER: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice.The complaint -- the complaint in this case wasfiled under the authority of U.S.C. (b). The Courtwill find that at page of the joint appendix. Andthat -- that statute provides for district courtjurisdiction to adjudicate challenges to the terms ofproposed Government contracts. And I think if you look atparagraph and of the joint -- of the complaint,which is in the joint appendix, you'll see the allegationsthat were made in the complaint to fall within thatprovision of -- of title .As to the substance of the CDA claim, theGovernment makes much of the fact that no, quote, Government funds were used here. And I cannot stressenough that that is a phrase that they've invented for thepurposes of this case. It makes much of the fact that theconcessioners received monies here from the visitors tothe national park, remit some of it to the NPS as afranchise fee, and keep the rest of it. But thesecontracts could just have easily been structured so thatthe NPS got all the money in the first instance, kept someof it as a franchise fee, and paid the rest of it back tothe concessioners. And in fact, some Government th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC concessions contracts are written that way. In that case,even the Government, I think, would have to concede thatGovernment funds were used. We can't believe that the CDAcoverage of the CDA, these important procedural andsubstantive protections, turns on such flimsydeterminations as to who gets the money in the firstinstance. Now, secondly, we -- we've already talked aboutthe fact that so many services are being provided herethat are for the use and benefit of the Government, aswell as for the visitors of the national parks. But I also want to point out that the Governmentis the sole beneficiary of the contractual provisions invirtually every concessions contract requiring theconstruction, repair, and maintenance of facilities in the national parks. You know, if the Court will look, forexample, at page of the joint appendix, which is a -- aprovision of the Grand Canyon contract that's in therecord, you'll see there that this contract -- under thisthe contract, the NPS is there procuring maintenance,repair, housekeeping, and groundskeeping for allconcessions facilities. It seems to us if you look at thelanguage of that -- of that procurement and compare it tosection (a)() of the CDA, which -- which provides thatCDA coverage for contracts for the procurement of th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC construction or repair or maintenance of real property,it's impossible to conclude, I think, that thisprocurement contract doesn't fall within the CDA.Thank you. CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: Thank you, Mr. Geller.The Court wishes supplemental briefs on theissue of ripeness, simultaneous briefs, due : p.m.Friday. The case is submitted. (Whereupon, at : a.m., the case in theabove-entitled matter was submitted.) th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC 