 IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XJANETTE PRICE, WARDEN, Petitioner ::v. : No. -DUYONN ANDRE VINCENT. :- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XWashington, D.C.Monday, April , The above-entitled matter came on for oralargument before the Supreme Court of the United States at: a.m.APPEARANCES:ARTHUR A. BUSCH, ESQ., Flint, Michigan; on behalf of thePetitioner.JEFFREY A. LAMKEN, ESQ., Assistant to the SolicitorGeneral, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; onbehalf of the United States, as amicus curiae,supporting the Petitioner.DAVID A. MORAN, ESQ., Detroit, Michigan; on behalf of theRespondent. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC C O N T E N T SORAL ARGUMENT OF ARTHUR A. BUSCH, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioner JEFFREY A. LAMKEN, ESQ.On behalf of the United States,as amicus curiae, supporting the Petitioner DAVID A. MORAN, ESQ.On behalf of the Respondent REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OFARTHUR A. BUSCH, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioner PAGE th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC P R O C E E D I N G S(: a.m.)CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: We'll hear argumentfirst this morning in Number -, Janette Price, Wardenversus Duyonn Andre Vincent.Mr. Busch.ORAL ARGUMENT OF ARTHUR A. BUSCHON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERMR. BUSCH: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it pleasethe Court:This case involves a gang-related murder inwhich a jury found the defendant guilty beyond areasonable doubt. There was one trial conducted, and thedefendant was sentenced to life in prison.The Sixth Circuit Court of Appeals erred in its conclusion that the Michigan Supreme Court's decision ondouble jeopardy was unreasonable. The AEDPA precludeshabeas corpus relief where a State court makes reasonablefactual determinations. The Michigan Supreme Court'sdecision was not only reasonable, but also correct.The Michigan Supreme Court's decision wascorrect for three reasons.First, this was a factual matter which wasreasonably decided.Second, the trial judge's -- th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC QUESTION: When you -- when you say this was afactual matter, I got the impression that as to basicfacts, there really wasn't any dispute about them.MR. BUSCH: Mr. Chief Justice, the MichiganSupreme Court was evaluating what exactly this trial judgesaid. It was ambiguous. And in trying to determine whathe said, then we could understand, or they couldunderstand what he had done and what legal import thathad.QUESTION: But -- but there was no -- all I'msaying, there was no doubt about what -- what he said. The -- the legal import is -- may be much more difficultto figure out.MR. BUSCH: Your Honor, the factual question interms of what it was that he said is -- is different than what he had actually done. And therein lying --understanding what this judge had done or said, themeaning of it, then would give us some understanding ofwhat the legal import was.QUESTION: Well, I guess there are really threequestions, aren't there? One is what he said, andthere -- as the Chief Justice says, there's no dispute onwhat he said. The second question is what he meant bywhat he said. And the third question is, once you knowwhat he meant, at law does that constitute a -- a final th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC judgment.MR. BUSCH: Yes, that's correct.QUESTION: So there are three questions, and --and which one -- is the middle one, what he meant, asopposed to what he said -- is that a factual or a -- or alegal one?MR. BUSCH: That -- it would be our positionthat it is a factual question and courts -- the Court inParker versus Dugger and Wainwright versus Goode havedealt with this issue. Where we have ambiguous rulings ofa trial judge, that has been found to be a factual --QUESTION: I'm not sure actually -- yourinference. I mean, it's quite a fine point, but I guess Iwouldn't say necessarily that what he meant has anythingto do with it. That is, he said certain things in the world, and if he had a secret meaning, we don't care nordoes the law. But having said these particular things inthe world, then the question would be, can the MichiganSupreme Court -- does it -- did it -- it characterizedthose things, and it said as a matter of Michigan law,those things said in the world do not amount to a judgmentof acquittal.So then I guess we would -- if that's the way tolook at it, then we would have the problem of decidingwhether, even though as a matter of Michigan law, those th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC events that took place in the world do not amount to ajudgment of acquittal. Nonetheless, for purposes of theFederal Double Jeopardy Clause, do they amount to ajudgment of acquittal?Those would be two legal questions. One, aState law question, and one, a Federal question, and nofactual question.MR. BUSCH: Well --QUESTION: But that's something of a quibblebecause I don't know that leads us to a different place.MR. BUSCH: The Michigan court found that thistrial judge's decision was, in fact, tentative. And thatdecision and conclusion was reasonable. The judge, atpage of the joint exhibit, speaks of -- and if I couldturn to that page. The judge starts out by saying, well, my impression is at this time --QUESTION: What page?MR. BUSCH: Page of the --QUESTION: Page of what?MR. BUSCH: At the bottom of page of thejoint -- the joint appendix. Excuse me.The court says, nothing? Well, my impression atthis time is that there's not been shown. And then atpage of the same exhibit, the court actually schedulesan : motion the following day when the prosecutor in th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC this case -- the assistant prosecutor asked the court ifhe could be heard. And the judge said, I'll be glad tohear you. And in fact, the court had originally scheduledthe attorneys to be there at : and then changed thetime for them to show up before the jury came back.And lastly I think it shows that no one who wasinvolved in this case at the trial level actually believedthat a final ruling had been made. The court says atpage -- excuse me. The defense counsel says -- and I'mquoting Mr. Odette -- that's correct. They don't -- I'mnot disputing that, but it's my firm impression that whenI left the court yesterday, that there had been a rulingand that Mr. Stamos had indicated he'd like to have thematter reconsidered. And I believe the court said,whatever.And what's instructive is what the judge saidnext. That's right. And I -- well, I said, yes, I'd beglad to listen, or words to that effect.Lastly --QUESTION: What about the docket entry? Wasthere a docket entry too?MR. BUSCH: There was a docket entry which wasmade by a clerk which was not reviewed by -- and which isnot reviewed by the trial judge. And in Michigan, thedocket entry isn't dispositive of whether or not the judge th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC had made a final ruling of acquittal or a judgment ofacquittal.QUESTION: May I -- may I just ask you a furtherquestion to make sure that I understand the -- the sort ofthe assumption behind your argument? And it's really thesame question that Justice Breyer and Justice Scalia Ithink were -- were raising.My understanding is that the courts, up to thispoint, have treated the issue here as an issue of fact. What was the judge -- what did the judge think he wasdoing? Did he understand or could one reasonablyunderstand that the had made a final ruling or not?It might also have been treated as an issue oflaw. Given what the judge did, even if he thought he hadmade a final ruling, he might, as a matter of law, consistent with the Double Jeopardy Clause, have been ableto change his mind if he hadn't issued a formal order andif no one had acted in reliance.But I understand that legal question, the way Ijust put it, is not the question that people understoodhas been decided in this case, and that everybody istreating this as a -- as an issue of the factual questionand that's what you're addressing. Am I correct?MR. BUSCH: That's correct.QUESTION: Okay. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC MR. BUSCH: The Court has also -- and withoutconceding my case, in the alternative, if this Court wasto conclude that this judge had, in fact, issued or made ajudgment of acquittal, it would be the people's positionor the petitioner's position that the trial court need notbe able to reconsider to reach a just result becausethey -- they rule so swiftly. In other words, theMichigan court was correct because judges, trial judges inparticular, need time to reflect. They're often makingthese decisions without trial transcripts, in many caseswithout extensive legal research.QUESTION: Well, Mr. Busch, this case herecome -- the case comes to us under -- under AEDPA; thatis, that you don't have to show that the Michigan SupremeCourt was correct as a matter of law in its decision. Youhave -- your -- your opponent has to show that either itwas an unreasonable application of our precedents orcontrary to our precedents, if it's a legal question, andif it's a factual question, that the Michigan SupremeCourt made unreasonable findings of fact.MR. BUSCH: Exactly. And also, this Court hasheld and the statute requires that that finding of fact bepresumed to be correct.QUESTION: Mr. Busch, why wouldn't it beunreasonable if, as respondent asserts, the Michigan rules th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC provide that a directed verdict made at the close of theevidence, that the judge may not reserve decision, mustdecide it, may not reserve decision. I think that's whatthe judge ended up doing here, is that not so? When hereconsidered, he reserved decision 'til the end of thedefense case.MR. BUSCH: Yes, and in fact, in this particularcase, the judge did not come to a conclusion as to -- didnot enter a verdict of acquittal. In this particularmatter, the court held -- in that particular circumstance,it said in the opinion that it was harmless error in theiropinion. However --QUESTION: They -- did they address -- I didn'tnotice that the court had addressed the Michigan rule thatsaid --MR. BUSCH: They --QUESTION: -- you can't reserve decision.MR. BUSCH: The rule of the Michigan courts --that is, the Michigan Rules of Criminal Procedure at., I believe it is -- requires that there be someplain statement made, essentially, that there be somethingclear. And that was -- and it is -- our position that thecourt --QUESTION: I don't understand what you mean. Are you addressing Justice Ginsburg's question? She's th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC talking about the rule that says you can't reserve --MR. BUSCH: Yes.QUESTION: -- when a motion is made at the closeof all -- was this motion made at the close of all theevidence?proof.MR. BUSCH: At the close of the prosecutor'sQUESTION: Is that what the rule applies to? Atthe close of the prosecutor's proof? Or does it apply toonly when the whole trial has been completed?MR. BUSCH: It -- it applies when the motion ismade is my understanding.QUESTION: I don't understand that.QUESTION: Well, that's not really an answer. If it's just the prosecutor's case and the motion is made, is that covered by the rule, or is it required that boththe prosecutor and the defense case be in?MR. BUSCH: No. It can be made at any timeand -- and any point in --QUESTION: A motion can be made, but --MR. BUSCH: That is, the motion for a directedverdict of acquittal.QUESTION: Do you have the rule, the rule ofcriminal procedure, so we'll know -- that might give usthe answer to this question. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC MR. BUSCH: The --QUESTION: The Michigan rule that says the trialjudge shall not reserve decision on the defendant'smotion. Does that rule apply when the motion is made atthe close of the prosecutor's case?MR. BUSCH: The rule is .(D), and it's citedat page of the petitioner's brief.QUESTION: Is it quoted there too?QUESTION: What does it say?MR. BUSCH: It says -- about in the middle ofthe page in -- in bold, it says, did not substantiallycomply with the requirements of MCR .(D), and providethat, quote, the court must state orally on the record orin a written ruling made a -- a part of the record itsreasons for granting or denying a motion for a directed verdict of acquittal. And my understanding of that is --that rule is that anytime the motion is made, the judge issupposed to make clear the reasons why he's granting adirected verdict.QUESTION: Well --QUESTION: What is --QUESTION: But in ordinary trial practicecertainly you -- you can't -- the defense counsel in acriminal case can't get up after the prosecution hascalled two witnesses and said, I move for -- I -- I move th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC for a judgment of acquittal. I would think the first timethat could be made ordinarily would be --MR. BUSCH: Yes.QUESTION: -- after the close of theprosecution's case.MR. BUSCH: That's correct, once the evidence ispresented.QUESTION: And what has the rule, as you justquoted it, got to do with -- with reservation? In otherwords, the judge can say, my reasons are A, B, and C, butI'm going to sleep on it, and -- and tomorrow morning Imay come up with D and -- and rule the other way. I mean,what's that -- what's it got to do with reservation,his -- his reserving his right to change the ruling at alater time?MR. BUSCH: The rights of the judge to changehis mind -- our -- our position is, is that he has thatright until the jury would be discharged.QUESTION: Well, does the rule address that? Imean, Justice Ginsburg asked a question going toreasonableness that depended on what she understood fromthe -- from the briefs to be a Michigan rule saying thejudge can't reserve his right to change his mind later orreserve judgment on the motion when it's made.QUESTION: In respondent's brief, it's put in th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC quotes. And it sounds like it's quoting from a rule,.(A). Quote: The court may not reserve decision onthe defendant's motion.MR. BUSCH: Yes, that --QUESTION: Do those words appear in the rule?MR. BUSCH: Yes, that's the rule.QUESTION: That's fine. And what motion does itrefer to? A motion made at what point? At any point atall?MR. BUSCH: That's my -- I don't think it'sspecific, but I think the --QUESTION: Wow.MR. BUSCH: -- Chief Justice --QUESTION: So after two witnesses are called bythe prosecution, the motion can be made and the judge cannot reserve?MR. BUSCH: Excuse me. At the close of theprosecutor's proofs, that motion would be appropriateunder our rules of criminal procedure.QUESTION: Do -- do we have the full text ofthis rule before us?MR. BUSCH: The rule is quoted at page a,note of the --QUESTION: of the --QUESTION: Of what? th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC MR. BUSCH: Of our brief.QUESTION: ?MR. BUSCH: Excuse me. Of the joint appendix. Petition's appendix --QUESTION: .MR. BUSCH: -- petitioner's appendix.QUESTION: Petitioner's appendix?QUESTION: The cert petition.QUESTION: In the cert petition.QUESTION: Yes, and footnoted.QUESTION: Yes. It -- it says after theprosecution's case has rested.MR. BUSCH: Yes, that's right.QUESTION: It's a little hard to understandthat. Anyway, they said it was harmless error. The --the court -- the courts -- the Michigan court said it'sharmless error, all right. But it's a little hard tounderstand.It says you -- you -- the prosecution finishesthe case. The defendant then says, judge, I move for adirected verdict. All right? Or a failure of proof,whatever the words are. Then it says the judge could givehis reasons in writing -- I mean, that's one way -- ororally. How is the judge supposed to do this withouttaking some time? What does reserve there mean? Does it th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC mean he has to pass on it before they present the --the -- he has to decide it before the defense presents itscase? Does it mean you can't reserve it 'til after thedefense has presented the case? Does it mean you have torule instantly? What does it mean?MR. BUSCH: Your Honor, I --QUESTION: It can't mean instantly. What?MR. BUSCH: The -- the rule means that he shoulddecide as promptly as he can is the way I understand --QUESTION: Now, Mr. Busch, may I make thissuggestion? It seems to me the rule distinguishes betweenmotions made after the prosecution has rested and motionsmade after the entire case is in.QUESTION: Yes.QUESTION: It says in the latter case, the judge can reserve, take his time on it.MR. BUSCH: Yes.QUESTION: It seems to -- it strikes me, justreading the thing, that the point of the rule is thatbefore the defense goes forward, the defense has a rightto know what the ruling is.QUESTION: That's what I would think.QUESTION: Now, in this case before the defensewent forward, it knew what the ruling was because thejudge had come in the next morning and said, okay, I -- th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC you know, I've -- I'm going to listen to you again. I'velistened to you again, and -- and, in point of fact,I'm -- I'm not going to grant the motion. And isn't thatenough to satisfy what seems to be the point of the rule,and that is, before a defendant goes forward with a case,he's got to know whether he has to or not? Isn't --don't -- isn't that a fair way of reading this thing?MR. BUSCH: Yes, and I think that happened inthis case. This defendant came prepared to try the caseon a first degree murder theory, and nothing substantiallychanged that and he was not prejudiced in any way.QUESTION: No. But before he -- before he wentforward with his evidence, the judge had changed his mindor come to a further, more final conclusion, however youwant to characterize it, so that before he went forward, he knew the judge was saying, no, I'm not throwing out thefirst degree murder charge. And isn't that enough underthe rule?MR. BUSCH: Yes, Your Honor.QUESTION: Okay.QUESTION: But you would say that if the --MR. BUSCH: May -- can -- can I --QUESTION: -- if the defendant was operatingunder the impression that the -- if the defendant didn'tknow before he put on his case, would it be too late for th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC the judge to change his mind at the end of the defensecase?MR. BUSCH: Our -- no. Our position would bethat he can change his mind anytime up until that jury isdischarged.Chief -- Mr. Chief Justice, may I reserve thebalance of my time for rebuttal?QUESTION: Yes, you may, Mr. Busch.We'll hear from Mr. Lamken.ORAL ARGUMENT OF JEFFREY A. LAMKENON BEHALF OF THE UNITED STATES,AS AMICUS CURIAE, SUPPORTING THE PETITIONERMR. LAMKEN: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court:It's a long-established background principle that mid-trial rulings are inherently subject toreconsideration by the trial court itself until the end oftrial. That is especially so where, as here, a partypromptly seeks reconsideration which necessarily rendersthe initial ruling inconclusive. That rule reflects fourimportant legal and practical considerations.First, trial courts often must rule swiftlywithout the benefit of extended briefing, argument, ordeliberation or even a copy of the trial transcript. Theycould not operate justly absent the opportunity for th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC reconsideration.Second, the Double Jeopardy Clause affords thegovernment a full and fair opportunity to make its case inthe first tribunal. In the context of trial, that fulland fair opportunity includes reconsideration. Indeed,reconsideration is particularly important preciselybecause the government very often cannot appeal.QUESTION: I guess we never reach your -- yourargument, do we, if we decide this on the ground.MR. LAMKEN: That's correct, Justice Scalia. The Court could -- there are many stopping points short ofour argument on which the Court could resolve this --QUESTION: Well, we shouldn't reach your groundunless we have to, should we? Because your ground is aconstitutional ground.MR. LAMKEN: Well, Your Honor, the Court wouldhave discretion to reach the constitutional ground if itthought it were important enough to resolve thedisagreements in the State courts and their -- theirrulings that are contrary to --QUESTION: I thought we try to avoid decidingconstitutional questions.MR. LAMKEN: Yes. That is -- that is one of therules the Court follows and it's a general rule, but inimportant cases, particularly in the qualified immunity th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC context, for example, the Court will -- will sometimesannounce the constitutional rule because it's sufficientlyimportant to settle the matter rather than resolving it onstatutory grounds or in -- in the context of qualifiedimmunity on reasonableness grounds.QUESTION: Well, that's sort of a specialsituation because in those situations you could never getthe answer if you always decided it on -- on immunitygrounds. I mean --MR. LAMKEN: Justice Scalia, the Court wouldhave discretion to reach the constitutional issue if itchose, but it would -- certainly would not be required todo so. For example, the Court decided a double jeopardyissue in Monge, but that was years after addressing theexact same issue in -- on Teague grounds in an earlier case. And for those years, the lower Federal courts andthe courts in the State of California for which it hadspecial applicability suffered through a -- a tremendousamount of uncertainty.And we would urge the Court, given theuncertainty that's out there, to reach the constitutionalquestion. However, the Court would have discretion toresolve this on grounds --QUESTION: If we follow the position that you'reurging and -- and the judge rules, as here, premeditation th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC is out of the case, I'm not going to charge first degree,defendant puts on defendant's case on the assumption firstdegree is out of the case and then the judge says at theend, oh, sorry, I'm reversing and I'm going to charge. Now, you say the judge can change his mind at any time'til the end of the line. It seems to me that would begrossly unfair to a defendant.MR. LAMKEN: For double jeopardy purposes, butnot for due process purposes. That would raise a -- raisea -- a serious due -- excuse me -- due process issue. It's the exact same issue that arises, for example, when atrial court dismisses a count of a complaint, which raisesno double jeopardy concerns at all and then, very late inthe trial, determines that he had erred in dismissingan -- a count of the indictment. When that happens, the ordinary process is either the court must reopen theevidence to permit the defendant to put on the defensethat he didn't have the opportunity to present, or thedefendant may be entitled to a mistrial. But that is verymuch a fairness trial, due process issue, not a questionof double jeopardy.The third point is that double jeopardy --QUESTION: So then in Fong Foo when JudgeWyzanski I think got angry at the prosecution for somereason that escaped the Court and everyone else, directs th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC an acquittal, what the prosecutor should have done is justgo back to Judge Wyzanski and say, Judge, you made amistake here. I haven't been talking to the witness inthe hall as you thought, or whatever, and then JudgeWyzanski could have, in fact, taken back the -- thejudgment of the directed -- directed verdict of acquittal,although this Court later wouldn't have been able to do itin your view.MR. LAMKEN: In our view that's preciselycorrect, so long as Judge Wyzanski had not discharged thejury because once you discharge the jury, the -- thedefendant's right to trial before his tribunal of choicehas been eliminated. The -- so long as the jury hasn'tbeen discharged, the trial court has inherent authority tocorrect its own mistakes. No double jeopardy purpose is served by giving -- by precluding reconsideration to givethe defendant the benefit of acquittal to which no court,and certainly not the jury and not the trial court thatputatively granted it, believes the defendant is entitled. Particularly --QUESTION: What's your best authority for thatproposition from this Court?MR. LAMKEN: The --QUESTION: Or -- or --MR. LAMKEN: I'd say -- th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC QUESTION: Or does that take us somewhat furtherthan we've gone?MR. LAMKEN: Well, I think it would -- our bestcase would probably be this Court's statements in Arizonaversus Washington, in essence that the government --although the government often doesn't get an appeal and itdoesn't get a second shot at -- bite of the apple, it doesget one full and fair opportunity before the trial court. In our view that full and fair opportunity must includereconsideration precisely because trial courts move soswiftly and because the initial decision by a trial courtisn't meant to be a final decision but is, in fact, partof the deliberative process, part of the ongoing dialoguein trial among the judge, among a prosecutor anddefendant's counsel.QUESTION: So if you drop the first degreemurder charge -- or the judge orders it dismissed and thenthe defendant testifies thinking, well, at least I'm notgoing to be tried for first degree, in your view the trialjudge can change its ruling and reinstate the first degreemurder charges because the defendant shouldn't haverelied? He --MR. LAMKEN: No. We think it's --QUESTION: The -- the defendant should know thatthe judge can change his mind, and so he better not take th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC the stand.MR. LAMKEN: No. The ordinary rule -- and thisis the same rule that applies where a court, for example,dismisses a count of the indictment -- is that defendantsare entitled to rely on the interlocutory rulings. Ifthey do so to their detriment and to their prejudice andit denies them the opportunity to present their fairdefense, that is a significant due process problem and mayentitle --QUESTION: What --QUESTION: Well, it wouldn't be if -- excuse me.QUESTION: What -- what if you have a series ofdefendants in a -- in a case and it's being tried, and atthe close of the prosecution's evidence, the judgedismisses the indictment as against one of the defendants, but keeps on so the jury is still there? What happensthen? Can the -- the prosecution come back a couple dayslater and say, you made a mistake?MR. LAMKEN: That's, actually points up adifficult question which is whether or not the dismissalof the -- well, if it's dismissal in the indictment, itcertainly isn't a double jeopardy problem, but if it's ajudgment of acquittal at that point, the question thecourt would have to confront --QUESTION: Well, say -- change my hypothetical th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC to a judgment of acquittal.MR. LAMKEN: Right. That's what I assumed youhad meant. And if that were the case, the court wouldhave to decide whether or not that there -- there'sconstructively or through legal fiction the discharge ofthe jury with respect to that defendant even though theactual jury is still there --QUESTION: But that's --MR. LAMKEN: We believe the actual answer wouldbe --QUESTION: That's an extraordinary doctrine.MR. LAMKEN: Well, I -- I would believe that theproper answer would be that if the jury is stillavailable, the prosecution can seek reconsideration. Butone could say that the jury was constructively discharged with respect to that defendant and thereby preclude theprosecution from seeking reconsideration. But thecritical moment in all of those cases is what constitutesdischarge of the jury, the defendant's chosen trier offact.QUESTION: But getting back to the earlierpoint, if a -- if the defendant testifies, thinkingthere's going to be no first degree charge, and it's laterreinstated, under your position I think you would say, heshouldn't have relied. The rule is that he knows the th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC judge can change his mind. Therefore, his reliance was athis peril.MR. LAMKEN: Well, the Constitution --QUESTION: I mean, I don't know why you don'targue -- that's the consequence of your argument it seems.MR. LAMKEN: Well, certainly the Constitutiondoesn't require there to be mid-trial rulings on judgmentsfor acquittal. In fact, Federal Rule of CriminalProcedure (b) specifically allows --QUESTION: No, but the hypothetical is there isone.MR. LAMKEN: Right. And if the defendant reliesto his detriment and it prevents him from presenting afair defense to which due process entitles him, we believethat he might be entitled to a mistrial.But we -- nothing of that sort happened herebecause defendant not only was on notice that this -- thatthe ruling was subject to change, but if you look at thepoint in the joint appendix, which is the penultimatepage, where the court announced -- page , where thecourt announces that it has decided to reconsider, there'sno objection from the defense saying, wait a minute, werelied. Our whole defense rested on this ruling. There'sno statement to that effect.QUESTION: I suppose parties can -- can th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC repudiate a contract, can't they, since there's no -- noinvoluntary servitude? But the mere fact that one partyto a contract knows that the other party can repudiate it,does not mean that the repudiation can be cost-free.MR. LAMKEN: That -- that --QUESTION: The other party is entitled to relyupon the contract despite his knowledge that it can berepudiated.MR. LAMKEN: Right. I -- I think that justpoints out the general rule, that -- when a trial courtissues a mid-trial ruling, the defendant generally has aright to -- to rely on it, and if he relies on it and itdenies him his opportunity to present a fair defense, thatpresents a serious due process problem. But it is not adouble jeopardy problem because double jeopardy is concerned with having two trials against the defendantwhen the prosecution had its full and fair opportunity inthe first.The final problem with the contrary rule is thatit requires appellate courts to engage in an oftenunrealistic endeavor to go through and try and determinewhat the trial court, through its spontaneous andsometimes extemporaneous statements, really meant to do orwhat it actually did. For example, in this case it seemsto come down to the question of whether the words, my th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC impression at this time, is -- suggest sufficienttentativeness and whether the word okay is the functionalequivalent of it is so ordered.In addition, under respondent's approach, thetrial -- the court of appeals would be required todetermine whether the request for reconsideration camepromptly enough, whether or not it came in the samebreath -- I see I'm out of time.Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice.QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. Lamken.Mr. Moran, we'll hear from you.ORAL ARGUMENT OF DAVID A. MORANON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTMR. MORAN: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it pleasethe Court:First of all, a brief factual correction. Thechange in the judge's ruling did not occur beforeMr. Vincent testified. The change in the judge's rulingoccurred on April nd, , days after the ruling hadbeen made after Mr. Vincent had testified. What happenedon April st, was the judge indicated that he wouldreconsider his motion and hold it in abeyance, but he didnot, at that time, take back the directed verdict ofacquittal.QUESTION: Well, he didn't take it back, but he th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC made it clear that he -- he did not consider it -- he didnot consider that he had made a final ruling. At leastthat was clear. It was clear that no final ruling hadbeen made before the testimony occurred.MR. MORAN: He -- he took the position, JusticeScalia, that he could take back his ruling because he hadnot informed the jury of it.QUESTION: Right. Right.MR. MORAN: A position that we submit is wrongunder this Court's precedent in Sanabria.QUESTION: Can I -- can I ask you, do youbelieve like Justice Breyer that a judge can enter a finalorder without meaning to enter a final order?MR. MORAN: What a reviewing court has to dounder this precedent in Martin Linen, Justice Scalia, is look at the words and actions of the trial court anddecide whether or not it amounts to a ruling.Now, in this case --QUESTION: And -- and you do that justobjectively, and even if there's plenty of evidence thatthe judge didn't intend it to be a final ruling, if heused certain magic words, it's a final -- it's a finalruling.MR. MORAN: Well, actually, Justice Scalia, it'spetitioner who's arguing for a magic words approach, or th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC the Michigan Supreme Court at least.QUESTION: No. I -- I don't know who -- who --in whose favor it breaks. I'm just asking what yourposition on it is, whether -- whether -- because onthat -- on that question hinges whether we are dealinghere with a question of fact, as we would be ininterpreting -- in -- in deciding, you know, what heintended, or a question of law, as we would be ininterpreting the words of a contract where indeed itdoesn't matter what the parties intended. If they expressthemselves this way, you -- you take the objective meaningof it. Right? And that's a question of law for the courtand not a question of fact for the jury.MR. MORAN: Well, Justice Scalia, our positionis, is that the trial judge's intent is a relevant fact, but whether or not what he did amounted to an acquittal --QUESTION: Is a question of law.MR. MORAN: -- is a question of law.QUESTION: Well, in -- in your position hereattacking a State judgment, you don't -- you don'timmediately get to the constitutional question. You getto the question of whether the Michigan Supreme Court'sruling was either contrary to our precedents or anunreasonable application of them. In other words, theMichigan Supreme Court could have been wrong as a matter th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC of abstract constitutional law and it could still beupheld here.MR. MORAN: Yes. What we attacked in Federaldistrict court on habeas was the Michigan Supreme Court's conclusion that there had never been an acquittal at all,and we persuaded the Federal district judge and the SixthCircuit that the Michigan Supreme Court's conclusion thatthere had not been an acquittal was an unreasonableapplication of this Court's precedents, particularly Ball,Kepner, Green, because the Michigan Supreme Court placedprimary emphasis on the absence of formal trappings, andthis Court has repeatedly held that even in the absence ofany written judgment at all, as in Ball and Kepner, that afinal directed -- a verdict of acquittal is final.QUESTION: It could be, but presumably Michigan knows Michigan law, and if they want to say, under the lawof Michigan, the events that took place here do not amountto an acquittal, I guess that's their right. Now, isthere anything in the cases that you cite which says thatFederal law requires Michigan to count these things as anacquittal?MR. MORAN: Well, this Court's precedents,particularly Martin Linen, teach that what the reviewingcourt is supposed to do is look not to the form of thetrial court's ruling but the substance. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC QUESTION: All right. Now, it happens inMichigan they don't do that. In Michigan, they have theMichigan system. Now, what is it that tells Michigan youhave to, as a matter of Federal law, count this as anacquittal? I quite agree with you that there are caseswhere the Court has said this is an acquittal, but I don'tthink they're faced in those cases with a State court thatsays the contrary.MR. MORAN: Well, Smalis, Your Honor.QUESTION: Yes.MR. MORAN: Smalis came from a State court.QUESTION: Yes, but in Smalis there was no doubtabout what the judge had done. I mean, there he expresslyfound that the State had not proved its case and everybodyagreed he had done that, and then the State appealed to the higher courts in Pennsylvania.MR. MORAN: That's right.In this case, however, if you look at the fullrecord, the trial judge himself -- and if we get to theissue of intent, Justice Scalia -- the trial judge himselfsays over and over, I made a ruling, I came to aconclusion, I made a decision, and even at one point, Igranted a motion for a directed verdict. He took theposition simply as a matter of law, double jeopardy law,Federal double jeopardy law. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC QUESTION: Well, under AEDPA, what is it youthink that the Michigan Supreme Court did wrong? Was itto misapply our law, or was it a misapplication of thefinding of fact?MR. MORAN: It was a -- it was its legalconclusion --QUESTION: Well --MR. MORAN: -- that there had been no --QUESTION: -- but AEDPA doesn't say one way orthe other. AEDPA doesn't use the term, legal conclusion.MR. MORAN: No. But it --QUESTION: So what is your answer to myquestion?MR. MORAN: Mr. Chief Justice, it matters forAEDPA whether it's law or fact because then we're under (d)() or (d)().QUESTION: Right.MR. MORAN: And so --QUESTION: I'm asking you which one you -- youwant to be under, or perhaps you want to be under both.MR. MORAN: Well, it is our position that we winunder either because even if it's a finding of fact, it'sso unreasonable to say that there was no directed verdictof acquittal here, that we should prevail. But --QUESTION: Anyway, the Michigan Supreme Court th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC didn't find the fact against you, did it? It just -- I --as I understand it, it said it really doesn't -- didn'tmatter to the Michigan Supreme Court.MR. MORAN: That's right.QUESTION: It said even if he had made a ruling,unless -- unless the jury had been advised, it wasineffective for double jeopardy purposes.MR. MORAN: Oh, that's not quite right, JusticeScalia. What -- what the Michigan Supreme Court ruled orstated was they agreed with the Michigan Court of Appealsand the dissenters in the Michigan Supreme Court thatcharacterizing the trial judge's comments as an acquittalwould require us to reverse Mr. Vincent's conviction. TheMichigan Supreme Court actually said that. So they -- andthat was after a discussion of Smalis.Both the Michigan Court of appeals and theMichigan Supreme Court, after reviewing this Court'sdecision in Smalis, like so many other lower courts, havecome to the conclusion that what a trial judge may not do,consistent with the Double Jeopardy Clause, is revisit adirected verdict at any point later in the trial.QUESTION: All right. Suppose that what he saysis, I direct the verdict. There are two defendants, Smithand Brown, and the judge says, I direct a verdict in favorof Smith. Oh, my goodness. I said the wrong thing. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC Brown. Okay? That's what happens. Are you saying theConstitution then just means that Smith is home free? Can't try him.MR. MORAN: Not at all, Justice Breyer.QUESTION: Because? And the difference betweenthat and this is what? hours?MR. MORAN: No. The difference between that andthis is that the ruling is not final. Here the ruling wasunquestionably final. The judge --QUESTION: How? Why?MR. MORAN: I'm sorry?QUESTION: Why, how? Explain that.MR. MORAN: Because the judge announced hisruling. All the parties, including the judge, understoodthat under Michigan court rules, the judge could not reserve his decision, had to make it. He did so. Heannounced his decision. He said, okay. Is there anythingelse?QUESTION: Reserve means, I take it, that youhave to make a decision prior to the -- the defendantputting on witnesses.MR. MORAN: It -- the -- the court rule doesn'tsay that. The court rule says --QUESTION: When I read the court rule and thenread the Federal rule, the difference in the practice is th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC what they mean by reserve under the Federal rule where youcan reserve -- and it happens every day -- is a districtjudge says, you move at the end of the plaintiff's case. I'm the district judge. I say I'm going to let it go tothe jury. If the jury acquits, you're home free. If itconvicts, I'll go back to it. That happens all the time. And that, it seems to me, is what the Michigan rule sayscan't happen in Michigan --QUESTION: Well --QUESTION: Is that -- am I right?MR. MORAN: The Michigan rule -- I -- I don't --frankly, I don't know because the Michigan rule simplysays the judge may not reserve his decision.QUESTION: But surely it can't mean that if a --if a motion is made at quarter after : in the afternoon and the court customarily recesses at :, that he can'twait until the next morning, so no testimony being takenin the meantime.MR. MORAN: In -- in that case that would --that might well be all right because he hasn't made afinal decision. The problem here -- we're not --QUESTION: Suppose in that case the -- thearguments by the attorneys end at o'clock. The judgesays, well, I'll let you know my order. He enters the --he tells his clerk at :, enter the order dismissing the th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC first degree charge. He then comes back at : in themorning, after having thought about it overnight. Hetells the clerk, put in a new docket entry, orderwithdrawn, motion to dismiss denied. No one knows aboutthis until quarter to :. Defense doesn't even knowabout it. What result in that case?MR. MORAN: That's very similar to Lowe v. Statein the Kansas case in which the Kansas Supreme Court,after this Court's decision in Smalis, concluded that ajudge couldn't do that even though there had been nointervening proceedings. The judge had --QUESTION: What interest is served by such arule?MR. MORAN: An acquittal is final. That is themost fundamental rule of this Court's double jeopardy --QUESTION: Well, but what -- no one -- no onerelies on it. No one knew about it.MR. MORAN: But, Your Honor, this Court has saidover and over again that an acquittal by a judge, in thecontext of a directed verdict, is equivalent to anacquittal by a jury. And the same --QUESTION: But he -- he didn't say, I acquit. The judge himself said this at the trial, he said, Ididn't enter a directed verdict. I granted a motion.MR. MORAN: Yes. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC QUESTION: In the judge's own mind, he didn'tacquit.And what you're urging is so different from howwe approach trial rulings generally, and the point wasmade that in a trial, things go fast, judge -- judges makerulings. It's very common, is it not, for a judge to makea ruling and then go home that night, maybe read over thedaily transcript, maybe have her law clerk check a fewauthorities, and say, oh, my goodness, I made a mistake,the next morning. You couldn't run trials -- I mean, thetrial judges don't have the luxury that appellate judgesdo in that regard. They have to make rulings on the spot,and they can revisit them. You -- you are suggesting thatthis rule, like no other, is -- once the judge utters thewords, motion granted, that's the end of it. MR. MORAN: I'm not arguing that, JusticeGinsburg. I am taking the position that if the judgeimmediately corrects a mistake, as happened in People v.Vilt, a case relied upon by the petitioner, that'sdifferent.QUESTION: Well, what's different between --QUESTION: Why?QUESTION: -- saying at o'clock in theafternoon, I grant your motion, and then overnight -- andthen they come back the next morning and the judge says, th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC I'm not so sure. Prosecutor, tell me more about this. What's the difference of the overnight interval? Nothinghas happened. The trial hasn't gone on. No witnesseshave appeared.MR. MORAN: But, Your Honor, if that was thelaw, then Smalis v. Pennsylvania is impossible tounderstand because in Smalis the prosecution there couldhave taken some sort of emergency appeal to thePennsylvania Supreme -- Pennsylvania Superior Court, got aruling late that afternoon, and come back the next morningand resumed the trial. And in fact, the prosecution triedexactly that in a Tenth Circuit case, United States versusEliason.QUESTION: I'm sorry. I don't follow youbecause I thought the judge in Smalis was firm throughout, that he never equivocated about what his ruling was.MR. MORAN: Actually the judge in Smalis agreedto a reconsideration motion --QUESTION: But then he came up just where he wasthe first time.MR. MORAN: Yes, that's -- that's right.What I'm saying is, is that if double jeopardydoesn't protect -- if there's no double jeopardyviolation, if it can be revisited quickly, then Smalis isimpossible to understand because Smalis then would simply th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC come down to if you can do it quickly, if you can get anappeal to a higher court and a reversal quickly --QUESTION: Well, being -- being revisited onappeal is different from being revisited at the trial bythe trial judge. That's -- that's the distinction that'sbeing drawn by your opponent here.MR. MORAN: Yes, Justice Scalia. And -- and thepoint of that argument is that it makes it completelydispositive as to whether there are other defendantsremaining, as I believe Mr. Chief Justice --QUESTION: You don't have to go that far at all. I mean, Smalis is not a case where the judge changed hismind, I take it. And this is a case where the judgechanged his mind.MR. MORAN: Yes.QUESTION: So I'm back to my first question. The judge says, Smith, you're acquitted. And minuteslater he says, oh, my goodness, I used the wrong name. Itwas Brown. Now, you're saying they can't retry Smith?MR. MORAN: If --QUESTION: My goodness, nothing at all happenedin those minutes. They were out drinking some water.MR. MORAN: If no further proceedings haveoccurred, and that is the line that almost all --QUESTION: All right. What -- what proceeding th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC occurred? No proceeding occurred. They adjourned for theevening. He comes back the next day and, at best, he saysfor you, well, I misspoke. I -- I didn't grant themotion. So what's the difference whether -- we're back toJustice Ginsburg. We're all pursuing exactly same thingwhich I'm having trouble with, and --MR. MORAN: First of all, Justice Breyer, hesaid, I granted the motion. He took the position as amatter --QUESTION: So does -- so does my judge. I grantthe motion. Smith -- Smith is acquitted.MR. MORAN: And he came back the next morningand said I granted your motion. He took the position thatit didn't count --QUESTION: And he says, I say I granted the motion. I acquitted Smith, but I misspoke. It was BrownI meant.MR. MORAN: Yes.QUESTION: You're saying that in my case tooSmith is home free.MR. MORAN: If further proceedings haveoccurred, which unquestionably occurred here, thenfollowed by an overnight recess, during a trial adefendant --QUESTION: Which were the further proceedings? th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC MR. MORAN: There were five pages of proceedingsthat are --QUESTION: What? You mean they spoke some more.MR. MORAN: No. On -- on joint appendix pages through , the parties litigated a number of othermatters, including in which order will --QUESTION: But they were all --QUESTION: But no -- no evidence -- no -- nowitnesses testified, did they?MR. MORAN: Not at that point, no. But what --QUESTION: There was nothing that -- that wasdone to the defendant that the defendant himself did tohis detriment.MR. MORAN: We don't know because all we know --QUESTION: Well, have we any reason to believe? MR. MORAN: We know that his attorney madedecisions on matters such as who is going to go first,will the defendants be present for each other's juries,will witnesses be allowed in the courtroom, asequestration order. He made those decisions at a pointwhen his client had been acquitted of first degree murder.QUESTION: No, but is there any reason tobelieve that those decisions would have been different ifhe had understood that first degree murder was going to bein the case? th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC MR. MORAN: We simply don't know, JusticeSouter. It's a --QUESTION: Well, we don't -- we don't know inthe sense that there -- there hasn't apparently beenspecific litigation to that effect, but is there anyreason to suspect that the decisions would have beendifferent? In other words, is there any reason whateverto -- to think that there may have been detrimentalreliance here?MR. MORAN: Yes.QUESTION: Maybe there is, but what -- what isit then?MR. MORAN: Yes. Well, first of all, on thoseparticular decisions, we don't know and it's impossible toreconstruct that at this point. What we do know is that during the overnight recess, Mr. Vincent and hisattorney -- as this Court noted in Geders versus theUnited States, an overnight recess during a trial is acritical time to make crucial decisions --QUESTION: No. I -- I realize that, but by thetime he departed for the overnight recess, he knew thatthe judge was going to take the matter up again the nextmorning. The judge had said so.MR. MORAN: That's actually not quite true as toMr. Vincent. Mr. Vincent was removed from the courtroom th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC before the prosecutor said I would like to make a briefrestatement on first degree --QUESTION: But his lawyer knew.QUESTION: But his -- his counsel knew. Hiscounsel knew.MR. MORAN: His lawyer was still there. That'sright.QUESTION: Yes. So -- so if -- if he -- if herelied upon there being no change in the ruling, he wasdoing so at his peril, was he not?MR. MORAN: The ruling had not been taken back,though, Justice Souter. All --QUESTION: No, the ruling had not been takenback, but the -- the judge said, sure, I'll hear you,prosecutor, in the morning. I'm always glad to hear people. He made it -- he couldn't have made it more clearthat he did not understand that he had come to a finalconclusion on that motion, could he?MR. MORAN: What -- all he agreed to do is hearmore argument. He did -- in no way indicate --QUESTION: But surely that -- that suggests thathe has not finally made up his mind.MR. MORAN: It suggests it, but it -- hecertainly doesn't say it.QUESTION: No. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC MR. MORAN: All -- he makes a generalstatement --QUESTION: Well, as a betting man, would --(Laughter.)QUESTION: -- would you not assume that theremight be a change as a result of what he had said beforethey recessed?MR. MORAN: If I had been in trial counsel'sposition, I wouldn't have known what to do because we havea --QUESTION: Yes, you would. You would havedefended your client as best you could, and you would knowthat you could not treat with security what the judge hadsaid. If you did, you were endangering your client --MR. MORAN: But --QUESTION: -- because the judge had signaledthat he might reverse his ruling --MR. MORAN: But --QUESTION: -- the next morning.MR. MORAN: As trial counsel stated the nextmorning, it was my impression that you made a firm ruling,judge. So --QUESTION: Then at trial the next morning, ifwhat you say about the overnight being so critical to thestrategic planning, then counsel could say, judge, we th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC plotted all this thing out, give me a recess so we canreshuffle the thing. At that point, if there was anydetrimental reliance, the way to do it was to give backthe hours that had been lost. Isn't that so?MR. MORAN: I don't know if that would bepossible with a -- with two juries. There were actuallytwo juries in this case sitting around waiting forthe defense to --QUESTION: It wasn't requested, though.MR. MORAN: It -- it wasn't requested because atthe end of the hearing, in which the prosecution made hisimproved closing argument to the judge, there was noruling. The judge simply said, I'm going to think aboutit. I'm going to take it under advisement. He didn'tmake the ruling until after Mr. Vincent testified. QUESTION: These are due process problems thatyou're raising now, and I suppose we could always leavethem to be resolved by further proceedings below, inquiryinto whether there was any prejudice or not. But thatdoesn't go to the point that's before us here which iswhether for purposes of double jeopardy, this -- thisterminates the matter.MR. MORAN: I agree. This Court's precedents --QUESTION: So it's -- it's no use arguing, well,he could have been prejudiced. Okay, he's prejudiced. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC We -- we can take care of that.MR. MORAN: And --QUESTION: But that doesn't got to the doublejeopardy question.MR. MORAN: And I've taken the position in thebrief that we don't have to show prejudice. Under doublejeopardy, the prejudice is --QUESTION: Right. Absolutely.MR. MORAN: -- is inherent in being subjected topost-acquittal fact-finding proceedings.QUESTION: Not only do you not have to, it doesyou no good to.MR. MORAN: I agree.QUESTION: Right, okay.QUESTION: But we still have good old lucky Smith who -- who got off because --(Laughter.)QUESTION: -- five pages -- of five pages ofextraneous conversation went on with the -- the judge andcounsel. And I take it now you're going to say, yes, hegot off.reason --MR. MORAN: Justice Breyer, yes. And -- and theQUESTION: Okay, okay. That's what I thoughtyou would say. That's all right. That's fine. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC MR. MORAN: The rule from the SolicitorGeneral's position would make it completely dispositive asto whether there happened to be other charges remaining,as in Smalis itself, and whether or not there happened tobe other defendants.QUESTION: That's -- that may be true. That'swhy I'm nervous about the position. But still, you fromyour point of view, unfortunately, lose as long asMichigan was -- was at least within the discretion thatFederal law grants them in characterizing what happenedhere as not an acquittal. I'm right about that.MR. MORAN: If they're correct that it was notan acquittal.QUESTION: Well, not correct. They -- they havea degree of -- even under the law, that's -- I mean, under the law section too.MR. MORAN: I agree. But if you look at thetrial judge's comments, he consistently maintains thathe -- he made a ruling. And ruling is actually the exactword from Martin Linen, that this Court has to decidewhether or not the trial judge made a ruling.QUESTION: Mr. Moran, I'd like to get back to anAEDPA question, and that is, as I understand it, there isa division among lower courts on just how much leeway atrial judge has to take back a directed verdict. And if th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC there is disarray in the lower courts, how can we saythere's clearly established law in your favor?MR. MORAN: Because what -- what AEDPA requiresis not to look at the decisions of the lower courts, butto look to see whether the decision of the MichiganSupreme Court was a clearly unreasonable application.Now, I should point out, first of all, on thatissue whether a judge can take back a directed verdict,the Michigan Supreme Court did not rule against us, infact indicated that it agreed with our position that ajudge may not take back a directed verdict if he had -- ifhe has actually rendered one. And the Michigan Court ofAppeals ruled the same way.But if you look at the split of authority, it'sa very striking split of authority. The cases that cite and rely upon Smalis on very similar situations wherethere is a directed verdict, a partial directed verdictduring an ongoing trial, so the trial continues, and thenthe judge attempts to take back the directed verdict atsome point later in the trial, those courts that haveapplied Smalis have, with one exception, held that thejudge cannot do it. Those courts that have gone the otherway have almost uniformly relied on a Second Circuitdecision, United States versus LoRusso, which says thatthere is no problem with doing that because it does not th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC result in a second trial.And what this Court could not have been moreclear about in Smalis is that a double jeopardy isviolated not only if a reversal of a directed verdictwould result in a second trial, but if it would result ina continuation of the same trial.And that is why this case is constitutionallyindistinguishable from Smalis. The only differencebetween this case and Smalis is that instead of going to ahigher court, as was attempted by -- in the Tenth Circuitin United States versus Ellison, what happened there isthat the prosecution -- there was a partial directedverdict, exactly as in this case. The prosecution ranacross --QUESTION: But you -- that's assuming the --assuming the whole factual point at issue here, that therewas a partial directed verdict.MR. MORAN: Yes.QUESTION: And in Smalis, there was no doubtabout that.MR. MORAN: Well, there was doubt as to what thejudge had done. The Pennsylvania Supreme Court said itwasn't a directed verdict because it was a legal rulingand not a -- not --QUESTION: Well, but that -- that was a very th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC theoretical thing, whether as a matter of -- when you'resaying there's no evidence as a matter of law, that's afactual ruling or a legal ruling.MR. MORAN: Yes.QUESTION: I -- I don't think that bears on ourcase.MR. MORAN: No, and that is -- and that is adistinction. That's why we have an issue one, Mr. ChiefJustice, is -- is, of course, we have to get past theissue of was there a directed verdict. Then we get toissue two. If there was a directed verdict, can the judgetake it back? And that is where I maintain that this caseis constitutionally indistinguishable from Smalis.On -- on issue one, I -- I just wanted to make afurther point about whether this is fact finding or a legal finding. The Michigan Supreme Court itself did notregard what it was doing as fact finding. There was notthe slightest indication in the Michigan Supreme Court'sopinion that it thought it was engaged in fact finding. Nor did this Court think that it was engaged in factfinding in several cases in which this Court has examinedarguably ambiguous district court transcripts to determinewhether or not an acquittal had been granted, for example,Scott and even more clearly, Sanabria.In Sanabria, this Court had to wade through a th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC difficult record to determine whether or not the districtcourt had, in fact, granted a directed verdict on boththeories, numbers theory and horse betting theory.QUESTION: Well, let me follow up on an earlierquestion of Justice Breyer's. Do you think that if thisis true under the Federal system that it was a directedverdict, it must therefore be true under the -- underan -- under any State system?MR. MORAN: Yes. I believe that followsimmediately, well, first of all, from Maryland v. Bentonwhich applies Double Jeopardy Clause to the States, butalso from Crist --QUESTION: Well, but the fact that -- that thatcase applies double jeopardy to the States I don't thinknecessarily settles whether a particular State procedure is or is not a directed verdict.MR. MORAN: No. But it also follows fromCrist v. Bretz in which this Court rejected a -- Montana'sattempt to declare that jeopardy doesn't attach until thefirst witness is sworn in a jury trial. And this Courtsaid, no. Where -- where jeopardy attaches and terminatesis a matter of Federal constitutional law, and itconcluded, therefore, that Montana must follow the Federalrule to that point which is that jeopardy attaches whenthe jury is sworn. And so this Court has consistently th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC applied the same principles about jeopardy-attaching andjeopardy-terminating events whether the cases arise inState or Federal court.QUESTION: Well, so the Federal rule is that itattaches when there's been a directed verdict, but it's upto State law when -- when there's been a directed verdict. I mean --there.MR. MORAN: Your Honor, I find that --QUESTION: -- there's nothing incompatibleMR. MORAN: Justice Scalia, I find that hard tosquare with Martin Linen which teaches us that what areviewing court must do is putting aside form, looking atsubstance to decide whether the trial court has found anessential element of the offense is missing. And here,the trial judge clearly stated that there is nopremeditation been shown, that therefore second degreemurder is the appropriate charge, that a docket entry thatcould not have been more clear was made to that effect onthat day, March st, , and then followed by at leastfive statements by the trial judge over the next daysexplaining that he had made a ruling, that he had directeda verdict, come to a conclusion and made a decision --QUESTION: He kept saying I didn't direct averdict. He was distinguishing as between granting a th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC motion. He says, I granted a motion, but I didn't directa verdict.MR. MORAN: Excuse me, Justice Ginsburg. You'requite correct. He said, I granted a motion. I didn'tdirect a verdict. And his distinction was clearly one oflaw. He clearly believed that so long as the jury was nottold, there was a distinction between granting a motionand directing a verdict.And that position is untenable after Sanabriaversus United States and also Martin Linen where the --the United States made the same argument in Martin Linen,that as long as it's the judge after the hung jurydeclaring a -- an acquittal, if it doesn't involve thejury in some way, it doesn't count. The same argument wasapparently made in Sanabria and dismissed in a footnote that it was so obviously -- so obviously contrary toMartin Linen.And so the judge never said as a fact -- as afact -- I did not find absence of premeditation. Heclearly found absence of premeditation, consistentlyadmitted that that's what he had done, but simplybelieved, as a matter of double jeopardy law, wrong as amatter of double jeopardy law, that he could take backthat decision.The Michigan Supreme Court's conclusion was th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC contrary even under the criteria that the Michigan SupremeCourt adopted, wanting to see certain formalities beforethey would conclude that a acquittal has been granted. That standard was met here. The Michigan Supreme Courtitself acknowledged that a docket entry is exactly thesort of formality that they were looking for but theninexplicably failed to notice that there had been such adocket entry made in this case. Not inexplicably theState failed to include the docket entry in its appendixin violation of the Michigan court rules. That's why theMichigan Supreme Court was apparently unaware of thedispositive docket entry.QUESTION: Wasn't that called to their attentionin rehearing, though?MR. MORAN: There was a motion for reconsideration filed, yes, Justice Stevens.QUESTION: How do you explain their failure togrant rehearing?MR. MORAN: Like this Court's denial ofcertiorari there --QUESTION: That's not a discretionary matter, Iwouldn't think, in a criminal case.MR. MORAN: I -- I believe it is. An appeal tothe Michigan Supreme Court is a discretionary matter inthe first place. And the denial of reconsideration is th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC traditionally treated as a discretionary matter underMichigan law.QUESTION: Even when there was an error of lawcalled to their attention.MR. MORAN: Well, it's an error in the record Ibelieve.QUESTION: Yes.MR. MORAN: I -- I can't explain it. It was a to vote for denial of reconsideration. I simply can'texplain how they came to that conclusion.The bottom line here was, was Mr. Vincentsubjected to post-acquittal fact-finding proceedings inviolation of the Double Jeopardy Clause? Exactly as inSmalis, he was. Smalis -- there would have beenpost-acquittal fact-finding proceedings --QUESTION: May I ask you another question? Assume it would have been an acquittal as a matter ofMichigan law because of the -- the docket entry. Would itnecessarily follow that it was also an acquittal forpurposes of Federal law?MR. MORAN: Yes, Your Honor. I don't believethat there has been any case distinguishing an acquittal,in quotation marks, for purposes of the Double JeopardyClause from any other sort of an acquittal. An acquittalis defined in Martin Linen and this Court's -- th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC QUESTION: So your syllogism is that if he wasacquitted as a matter of Michigan law, a fortiori theDouble Jeopardy Clause applies as a matter of Federal law.MR. MORAN: I believe he was acquitted for allpurposes, Justice Stevens. I -- I don't believe that onecan profitably draw a distinction between being acquittedfor one purpose or another.QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. Moran.Mr. Busch, you have minutes remaining.REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF ARTHUR A. BUSCHON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERMR. BUSCH: Thank you, Your Honor.The respondent here has stated that the MichiganSupreme Court agrees with his position with respect to thesecond prong of AEDPA. In fact, the Michigan Supreme Court stated in its opinion at footnote -- it madereference to the fact that it was actually not reachingthe conclusion. It wasn't reaching a decision as towhether the judge could change his mind.The respondent's position essentially requiresthe people to forfeit the second prong of AEDPA. Even ifthe Court was wrong on its factual finding orunreasonable, the result of this case must be viewedwithin the filter of that statute which says that the lawthat they applied was reasonable. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC There are -- he has cited several cases and wehave several cases in the other direction, interestinglyenough, including one, United States versus Baggett, whichcomes out of the Sixth Circuit itself, which says -- inthat case there were -- three times the judge announced aruling and then agreed to hold it in abeyance. In -- inthat case the Court said that -- that -- the appeal courtsaid that they were free to change their mind -- the judgewas free to change their mind any time prior to the entryof judgment.So the courts -- there is -- there is noestablished precedent with respect to reconsideration, andwe would respectfully say that alternatively this Courtought to find a rule that trial courts can reconsiderwhere there has been no appeal and also -- and we would argue that the --QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. Busch.MR. BUSCH: Thank you.CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: The case is submitted.(Whereupon, at : a.m., the case in theabove-entitled matter was submitted.) th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC 