 IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES- - - - - - - - - - - - - - XRICHARD VIETH, NORMA JEAN VIETH, AND SUSAN FUREY, Petitioner ::::v. : No. -ROBERT C. JUBELIRER, PRESIDENT OF THE ::PENNSYLVANIA SENATE, ET AL. :- - - - - - - - - - - - - - XWashington, D.C.Wednesday, December , The above-entitled matter came on for oralargument before the Supreme Court of the United States at: a.m.APPEARANCES:PAUL M. SMITH, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf of the Petitioners.JOHN P. KRILL, JR., ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf of Respondents Jubelirer and Perzel.J. BART DeLONE, ESQ., Senior Deputy Attorney General, Harrisburg, Pennsylvania; on behalf of Respondents Cortes and Accurti. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. C O N T E N T SORAL ARGUMENT OF PAUL M. SMITH, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioners JOHN P. KRILL, JR., ESQ.On behalf of Respondents Jubelirer and Perzel J. BART DELONE, ESQ.On behalf of Respondents Cortes and Accurti REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OFPAUL M. SMITH, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioners PAGE th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. P R O C E E D I N G S(: a.m.)CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: We'll hear argumentnext in No. -, Richard Vieth, et al. v. RobertJubelirer. Mr. Smith.ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAUL M. SMITHON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERSMR. SMITH: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it pleasethe Court:This Court held years ago in Davis v.Bandemer that a claim of partisan gerrymandering isactionable under the Federal Constitution. But the lowercourts have since effectively overruled Bandemer by requiring factual showings of plaintiffs in these casesthat are both impossible and, I submit, irrational. As aresult, the state -QUESTION: Well, do you - do you - do you thinkthe lower courts then didn't follow Bandemer? I mean,Bandemer set a very, very high standard.MR. SMITH: Well, the standard that I think was -the proper reading of Bandemer does not require that youshow that your members of your party have been completelydisenfranchised, to the extent that African-Americans oncewere in the South, or that - that your party has th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. effectively been banned. The standard that was appliedhere required that you show that you're being preventedfrom registering to vote, from raising money, fromcampaigning, from showing up at the polls.Those kinds of constitutional violations don'tmake sense as an element of a partisan gerrymanderingclaim, because they're not about gerrymandering, and ofcourse, they never occur. So if you're going to say theclaim is justiciable, it doesn't make sense simultaneouslyto require people to establish those kinds of independentviolations.QUESTION: Three of us in Bandemer thought theclaim was not justiciable.MR. SMITH: Yes, Your Honor, and I would submit to you that - that - that history suggests that - that it- the Court should not go that direction, because -QUESTION: I was thinking history showed that wasthe way to go.MR. SMITH: Well, what - what we've seen, YourHonor, because of the - the fact that the lower courtshave effectively read - rendered -QUESTION: They couldn't - they can't reach adecision under that Bandemer standard. It's impossible. So maybe the way to go is to just stay hands off thesethings. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. MR. SMITH: Well, we've never had a - anopportunity for the lower courts to actually apply astandard that says when does the map become so unfair thatit's anti-democratic? What they have done instead isapply this shut-out standard, which doesn't allow any realscrutiny of the map.QUESTION: Let - let me tell you my concern with- with fairness. If - if you look at Britishparliamentary history, begin with Walpole and go toDisraeli and Gladstone and Pitt and Churchill, and then ifyou come to this country and you think about Dirksen andCannon and Webster and Clay, I don't recall any of themever talking about this issue from a standpoint offairness. I don't know what I'm supposed to look to. Legislate - there's just no sources on which we could -from - from which we can draw.I would concede that what happens here is unfairin some common - common parlance. It - it - it lookspretty raw. But I don't recall legislators talking aboutwhat neutral standards ought to be. Now, we have in ourown juris - people talk about contiguity, geographicalcompactness, but I just don't think we have a - a largesource on which to draw. We know about numbers, one - oneperson, one vote. But beyond that, I - it - it seems tome that we're at sea. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. MR. SMITH: Well, Your Honor, what we - what wetry to do is articulate a standard which is tied to thebasic democratic values that are at stake and to the - andto the article I standard that says the people shouldultimately be deciding who's going to be representing themin Congress, not the states. The one thing that's clearfrom the constitutional -QUESTION: Well, since we're talking aboutarticle I, it also says that the times, place, and mannersof holding elections for Senators and Representativesshall be prescribed in each state by the legislature, butthe Congress may, at any time, by law, make or alter suchregulations. That suggests to me it's none of ourbusiness.MR. SMITH: Well, Your Honor, this Court held inWesberry v. Sanders, and has since twice done - appliedthat again, both in Cook v. Gralike and the - and in theTerm Limits case, that there are judicially enforceablelimits on the extent to which a state, in exercising theprocedural power to establish the times, places, andmanners of congressional elections, can create an unevenplaying field and attempt to try to dictate the outcome ofan election.QUESTION: All right. But then the problem isthat I think I have and others is, what are these th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. standards? Now, you propose, one, look to the mind of thelegislature. We'll do that. They'll always want partyadvantage, always. Look to the extent to which theydepart from historically drawn lines. Well, thehistorically drawn lines themselves are random. Third,history. Why is history the key? Third, look to seewhether or not the minority party might get the majorityof votes, but the minority of seats. Whether they mightin the future, that depends how people vote in the future. There's no set of lines where you couldn'timagine results that could come out that way. So how dowe do it?MR. SMITH: Your Honor, that's - with - with allrespect, I - I - first of all, we don't suggest that you should somehow look at the departure from historicallines. That's not part of our -QUESTION: You said look to see whether thetraditional criteria are predominantly ignored.MR. SMITH: That's -QUESTION: That's what I'm referring to.MR. SMITH: Okay. That's part of the intent -yes.QUESTION: I've read it. I understand it.MR. SMITH: Our - our standard on effects is that- does not suggest that politics should be taken out of th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. this process. As this Court recognized in Gaffney -QUESTION: No, no. I - my question is, how doyour standards possibly work?MR. SMITH: The standard would be, under our -under our submission, can you demonstrate that it isabsolute - that it is very clear that you could get morethan half the votes and have no chance.QUESTION: Always can.MR. SMITH: No.QUESTION: You can't draw a set of lines suchthat I couldn't imagine a voting pattern such that thatwouldn't happen.MR. SMITH: But, you see, our standard isprecisely the opposite. You have to show that it would -under any voting pattern, it would happen. There is nopossibility that with more than half the votes you couldget anywhere near half the seats.QUESTION: You're - you're just pulling this -you're just pulling this thing out of a hat, so to speak. I mean, you've got phrases in the Constitution thatCongress may do it or the states may do it. You've gotthe Equal Protection Clause, which was - came into being,you know, in , not in the original Constitution. Andthey - they just don't intimate anything like what you'retalking about. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. MR. SMITH: Well, Your Honor, we - we focus onthis / point, this majoritarian standard for two mainreasons.QUESTION: What - what -MR. SMITH: One is a - is a matter of principle,which is to say, when does consideration of politics gotoo far? It goes too far when we're no longer operating ademocracy -QUESTION: Well - well -MR. SMITH: - we're having a minority partycontrol the majority of seats.QUESTION: Well, when you say, you know, the -the Constitution doesn't ever use the word democracy.MR. SMITH: Yes, but we - but we have a - we have a -QUESTION: Not to mention party.QUESTION: Yeah.MR. SMITH: We have a commitment though to the -to the fact that the House of Representatives is supposedto mirror the people and is supposed to be -QUESTION: Well -MR. SMITH: - representative of the people.QUESTION: Well, you - but -MR. SMITH: And we -QUESTION: The - the - the Constitution th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. originally provided that the - the standard for the statevote would be the standard for the Representatives inCongress. And in other - it - it was simply left up tothe states. And there were property qualifications formany years, so it didn't represent the people in thatsense.MR. SMITH: The reason we are focusing on themajority standard, the / standard, is in part because,as this Court has recognized in Wesberry and it'srecognized in - in - in Cook and it's recognized inThornton, the states are not supposed to be deciding forthemselves who's going to be representing the people. Thepeople are supposed to decide.The second reason is that / you don't have these problems of distortions, which, as an empiricalmatter, happen in a winner-take-all, single-memberdistrict system. When you get to /, the party thathas percent of the vote ordinarily would expect to getmore than percent of the districts. That's why youdon't - you don't ever want to have a rule of proportionalrepresentation.QUESTION: It happens under a system ofpresidential electors too, as we recently saw. Is thatunconstitutional also?MR. SMITH: No, Your Honor. The electoral th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. college is not a majoritarian standard in the same waythat we - we have here. Because of the Great Compromise,it includes two Senators are counted, two votes for theSenators in every state across the board, so there - that- that is the disparity between the popular vote and theelectoral college. But in the - but the House ofRepresentatives was supposed to be the mirror of thepeople and the - this Court has constantly policed theefforts by the states to encroach from procedure intosubstance, to try to decide in advance, as Pennsylvaniadid here. We would rather have two out of three of ourRepresentatives be Republicans, even though we're a /state, and regardless of how people vote, we're going todetermine -QUESTION: Yeah, but it's not - let - let me -you've got me up to the point of this / business. NowI'm thinking. Let's use party names. It helps forclarity. Suppose the Democrats have, under thedistricting, they're - they're the ones who are thevictims. Now, let's suppose that they did get percentof the state vote for Congress in the next election. Now,you're saying that if it were true by this map thatthey're getting that vote, percent, meant thatnonetheless, they had to get fewer than half theCongressmen, then it's bad. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. And my problem with that is, I don't see howwe're going to know in advance, unless this is going to bedone by some experts coming in and measuring prior votesand getting into an argument. And if that's what's goingto happen, I keep thinking of Ken - John KennethGalbraith, who says, I'd rather be governed by peoplechosen at random from the telephone book than the Harvardfaculty. All right, now -(Laughter.)QUESTION: That's a joke, but nonetheless, is aserious point.QUESTION: William - Will - William F. Buckley,Jr., not - not - not Galbraith.QUESTION: Now, do you see my -(Laughter.)MR. SMITH: Other side of the aisle. Your Honor-QUESTION: Now, I've exposed the entire problem. I want you to respond to it.MR. SMITH: Your Honor, experts will in alllikelihood be involved as we - we have an example of thekind of expert testimony that can be given here. But thisis not, to use another expression, rocket science. Experts testify in voting rights cases about how districtswill behave. They use prior election returns plugged into th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. those districts to make estimates about how they willbehave, and it'll be the burden on the plaintiffs toestablish - they have the burden of proof - that, in fact,it is true that if you get - that - that the - thisfavored party, with more than percent of the vote, willhave essentially no chance of getting half the districts. That is -QUESTION: Were the experts on which you rely,were they presented as witnesses in the district court?MR. SMITH: We had a trial on the one person, onevote claim, Your Honor, after the partisan gerrymanderingclaim was defeated, was dismissed. And the - the statetried to justify the deviation by talking about neutralprinciples that governed this map, and so we had the opportunity to put a kind of preview of our partisangerrymandering evidence on -QUESTION: Yes, but Mr. Smith, isn't it true thatwhat the issue is sufficiency of your complaint?MR. SMITH: That's - that's correct, Your Honor. At this point -QUESTION: And may I ask you a question that -that troubles me about the complaint? It seems to me yourcomplaint was drafted on the theory that you agreed withJustice Powell's position in Bandemer, but the positionyou've come up with in this Court is entirely different th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. and not the one that I read into the complaint. Yourmajority analysis theory is - is really quite differentfrom - from that theory. You - you seem to have abandonedJustice Powell. And I - what I wanted to ask you is, under thetheory of the complaint, as opposed to the theory on whichyou're arguing in this Court, if you were - you allegethat there were no neutral justifications whatsoever forany district line. And if you put in proof to that effectand the - and the other side prove there were neutraljustifications for half the districts, say, but the - thatthere were a half that did fit your allegations, would -would - in your view, would the district court have theauthority to review the districts that were totally unjustified without meeting your majority analysis claim?MR. SMITH: I think the court does have to lookat the effects of the deviate - departures fromtraditional district criteria -QUESTION: Assume the effects, say you've got twoplaintiffs, one from district and one from , I think.MR. SMITH: Yes.QUESTION: If, for example, the - the courtthought that district had absolutely no justification,it's wildly, you know, the shape is so terrible and soforth, but the rest of the map was okay. Under your th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. complaint, could the judge do anything about that?MR. SMITH: I - I think it - the - certainlyunder our complaint and under the - our conception of thecase, you don't look at one district in isolation and say,this district is too ugly or too much of a departure -QUESTION: I know your complaint is drafted as aall-or-nothing, but I'm just wondering, within the -within the allegations, would - would it be open to thejudge to say, well, they lose on the total picture, themajority theory is - is just too - too novel for me, butwhat they've said about district pans out percent. Is that -MR. SMITH: That - that's not our case, YourHonor, and - and the reason for it is, I don't think that this Court is going to come in and start imposing,particularly districting criteria, when an ugly-lookingdistrict -QUESTION: In particular districts?MR. SMITH: - an ugly-looking and odd -QUESTION: They did that in the racialgerrymandering context - situation.MR. SMITH: Only when - only when it's talkingabout race on either side of the line, and - and it couldbe that the Court would ultimately get to the point ofsaying a district that's too ugly and - and divides th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. Democrats from Republicans ought to be viewed in the sameway.But our submission is more like the racial votedilution case, that not only are there departures wouldshow partisan intent, but you have to look, as the Courtsaid in Bandemer, statewide and see whether, in fact, the- the - the legislature has created a situation where aRepublican votes counts twice as much as a Democratic votein this state because -QUESTION: Race does not change. You - you arethe race you are, and you're not going to change it nextyear. Political party doesn't work that way. How do -how - how - how do you decide what, you know, what - whatis the Republican vote? Is it just registered Republicans -MR. SMITH: No, Your Honor -QUESTION: - and is everybody that's registered aRepublican now have to stay - maybe we should make themstay registered Republicans so that we can have gooddistricts, right? I mean, it - it - I just don'tunderstand how you run this scheme. You cannot reallytell until after the election is done how many Republicansand how many Democrats there are in each district. MR. SMITH: Well -QUESTION: Are - are you going to - th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. MR. SMITH: - the way you identify -QUESTION: - count on party registration? Isthat the basis for divvying it up?MR. SMITH: No, Your Honor. It's how people havevoted and how -QUESTION: In the last election.MR. SMITH: Yes. And it - it would again be theburden of the plaintiff to show that there are predictablevoting patterns, that there's a large chunk of people whoare consistent Democratic or Republican supporters who arebeing injured in their voting rights by means of a - of adeliberate scheme by the legislature.Now, the idea that these people are hard toidentify is a little hard to square with a map, in which you have these incredibly complicated peninsulas going outto find -QUESTION: Any particular election, they are veryhard to identify in any particular election, which is whythe parties go about selecting their candidates verycarefully. If it didn't make any different, they'd pickany old body -MR. SMITH: What the evidence -QUESTION: - and run them and - and you'd get allof the same Republican and the same Democrat votes. That's not the way the world works. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. MR. SMITH: Well, what the plaintiff would haveto show in such a case is that there's a sufficientlyconsistent pattern of voting in the state that a racial -that a political gerrymander is possible and it hasoccurred and it - and that it will - and that, in fact, inthe future there will be an injury to one class of voterswho have been packed into a small number of percentDemocratic districts, while there's a much larger numberof relatively safe Republican districts.Now, you can say that's not true or we can'tknow it, but we all sit here knowing - know that's whatthey did.QUESTION: Mr. Smith -QUESTION: Well, what is it -QUESTION: To - to what extent - what - to whatextent, Mr. Smith, does your - does your theory depend onthe registration of the voters?MR. SMITH: Registration might be an indicationof voting patterns, but our theory is - is you look atvoting patterns and decide in advance of the nextelection, will there in fact be a - a situation where it'simpossible for - if the Democrats got half the votes orthe Republicans got half the votes, it would be impossiblefor them to get close to half the seats.QUESTION: Well, what is the - th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. QUESTION: The point is it -QUESTION: - particular vice of - ofredistricting, just on the basis of politics? Suppose youdid it on the basis of isolating or - or fracturing unionvotes, or - or the gay vote or the environmentalist voteor farm subsidies?MR. SMITH: Well -QUESTION: Where - where - where does your - your- your principle particularly elect political parties? In- in - in fact, it seems to me that parties might - mightwell conclude - include some of these groups that I'vementioned.MR. SMITH: This Court has - has made clear in anumber of cases that the Government has no businessdiscriminating against people based on their partisanaffiliation or their political viewpoint, in contracting,in jobs. And it seems to us it would - it should be clearthat at some point, a level of discrimination in designingthe machinery of democracy, the electoral process itself,a - a form of discrimination that's equivalent to saying,in two-thirds of the district we're going to count all theRepublican votes twice, in one-third of the districtswe're going to count all the Democratic votes twice.QUESTION: But certainly you allow for somediscrimination? I mean, that - that's the way th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. legislatures go at it.MR. SMITH: Well, as this - this Court has madeclear, both in the race area and the politics area,redistricting is a little different from other areas. Itdoesn't make any sense to demand purity and a completenon-consideration of these factors, but there has to be anouter boundary. If there's no outer boundary, then -QUESTION: Mr. - Mr. Smith, you're - you'reessentially asking how much is too much. You say you havethis decision that said people have this claim that theycan bring, Bandemer. But that was a case where the bottomline was, and you have no claim on the merits. Now, if ajudge, a district judge, in - in one of these cases said,well, here's the Indiana plan and the court said that that was okay, and this one doesn't look any worse to me. Isthere a difference between the Pennsylvania plan and the -a significant difference between those two? MR. SMITH: There's a -QUESTION: With our precedent, I mean, you haveto take the whole of it, not just half. The half standingto sue you like, the bottom line, but the Indiana plan,egregious as it may look, is okay.MR. SMITH: Well, the facts shown in the Indianacase, in the Bandemer case, were much less severe thanthose we alleged here, in terms of - here we had th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. allegations which were ultimately supported by experttestimony in the one person, one vote trial, that theywould get a large super-majority of the districts withonly half the - with half the votes or less. And in - in Bandemer, the facts as they werepresented, there was no such expert analysis. Instead,they relied on the results of one election in which one ofthe bodies actually came out the right way and one of themcame out slightly the wrong way. They had not suppliedthe Court with the same kind of evidence that we wouldpropose to supply, and - and did not meet, at least as anevidentiary matter, the standard that we propose here.It might be that, in fact, if somebody looked atthat Indiana map, it might have met that, but nobody studied it in that way. They were simply saying, look,it's really ugly, they've got these unfair, multi-memberdistricts in certain cities, and, in fact, the way thevote came out in the House, the Democrats got more thanhalf the votes and got only percent of the seats. ThatI - that, I submit, is not a sufficient basis to establishthe outer boundary that we would suggest you have to meet.QUESTION: But if you're going to say it's notfair, fairness in what sense? If we say it's not fair todraw lines that will pack and crack one party or another,you're going to end up with no geographical boundaries, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. because all geographical boundaries do that. A randomsystem in Pennsylvania would give the Democrats noRepresentatives -MR. SMITH: What -QUESTION: - purely random.MR. SMITH: Well, that's -QUESTION: So - so it's, I mean, my point is thatpoliticians and the public, in fact, in form has one ideaof what's fair and it's very hard for a judge to turn thatidea into judicially administrable rules. MR. SMITH: Your Honor, with - with respect, I -I think that it is perfectly possible for somebody to lookat a map and decide whether or not it does or does notunfairly discriminate against one of the political parties. Courts draw maps themselves fairly - fairlyfrequently. They collect testimony from experts, the mapin Pennsylvania that was -QUESTION: You - you can tell whether itdiscriminates against one political party, I guess on thebasis of - of - of projections that may turn out to bewrong. You -nobody can say for sure. But what - what youcan say, what you can guess about, is simply that it willfavor one party over another, yes. But - but is it soeasy to tell that it will unfairly favor one party overanother? And that's what you're arguing here. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. How unfair is unfair? I don't know. What isit, /?MR. SMITH: If it gets to the point where oneparty's getting two-thirds of the seats with less thanhalf the votes, in a democracy, I submit that's the placewhere it crosses the line.QUESTION: Okay. Mr. Smith, you - is - is thatthe - the - the force of your argument, I take it, is notthat this happens in one electoral year, because there maybe all sorts of reasons. It's something, your argumentis, it happens over time.MR. SMITH: It -QUESTION: Let's - let's - let me start with thatassumption. Let's assume that we come up with a rule in which we - we come up with a wait-and-see rule, and wesay, it's not enough for you to prove a - a violation topredict in advance. You've in fact got to prove aviolation by looking back and establishing through thecourse of three or four elections that - that this patternis emerging. And let's assume we say, if you can do that,you win.My question, which then goes to the substance ofwhat you're going to win, and ultimately the substance ofwhat your claim must be is, what is the principle that thedistrict court must apply in a case like that to reform or th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. - or redraw the districts? Does he - does he come up witha principle that says anything that follows traditionalredistricting principles, you know, compactness, etcetera, is okay? That won't necessarily solve yourproblem.Has he got to come up with a scheme that saysthere's a presumption that all districts have got to becompetitive? If he does that, there's going to be a clearbreak with tradition because there are loads of placeswhere you can't have competitive districts. What is theprinciple on which he's going to reform it?MR. SMITH: Well, let - let - I will - let medirectly answer that question in a moment, but let me justcomment. I think the idea of a rule that says you have to wait three or four election cycles to - to prove yourcase, it would essentially be - mean that the claim isworthless, because you're going to redraw the districtsevery years, and there's an enormous amount ofirreparable harm, as you suggest.QUESTION: Two elections.MR. SMITH: As you suggest, there's alreadyirreparable harm. Once you've thrown out all theincumbents of the disfavored party, they have newincumbents that have come in now. It doesn't mean that th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. you can't have a remedy, and it would seem to me the veryfirst thing you'd want to do, just as you do in a racecase under section II is - is have a map which does notinherently pack and crack the disfavored group to thepoint where they don't have the opportunity to -QUESTION: The - the trouble is, in the racecase, you have a relatively simple objective in mind. Andthat is, the relatively simple objective is that once youidentify the political party of the racial voter, theminority voter, that minority voter ought to have, ineffect, the same opportunity as a non-minority voter ofthat political party.Here, we have a different problem. What is theforce or power that a member of a given political party ought to have? It's not as simple as the race case.MR. SMITH: Well, I think the inquiry wouldessentially be the same though. They - the parties wouldhave to come with the remedial map, the - presuming thelegislature would have an opportunity to draw on in theusual situation, in which they could show that it is nolonger the case that there is such packing and cracking ofDemocrats that - that at percent, they would have nochance of getting percent of the seats.QUESTION: What - what if you have more than twoparties? I mean, like Minnesota, where you have besides th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. the Republicans and the Democrats a very strong farmerlabor party?MR. SMITH: I assume that the experts could dealwith that. In - in reality, in this country -QUESTION: I - well, I - I'm sure they can. What- what - what test do you want them to apply?MR. SMITH: Well, the -QUESTION: Each proportional representation foreach of the parties?MR. SMITH: No, Your Honor. The - the - the testwe're talking about here is - is if one of the partieswould get to percent, would they have an opportunity to- to have a majority of the delegation?QUESTION: Do you take into account at all in -in this picture, this is not something that could havebeen adopted by the Republicans in the state legislaturealone. It took quite a number of Democratic votes to putit through.MR. SMITH: Well, Your Honor -QUESTION: Is that - is that relevant?MR. SMITH: It - it might be relevant at trial ifwe ever get to trial. Our claim was dismissed. What wewould attempt to show at trial, and I think we would showat trial, is first of all, not a single Democratic Senatorvoted for it. There were some Democratic House Members th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. who voted for it, and the reason for that is because thereare five Members of Congress who are Democrats in theState of Pennsylvania who are real, real happy with thedistricts they got.And the General Assembly, the Republicanleadership said, well, if you guys want these districts,you know what - you know what the price you have to payfor, you need to get us some votes. So that - there aredynamics that take place, and in any partisan gerrymanderthere's going to be some really good districts for thedisfavored party, just not enough, not - not a fair - fairallocation, not one that would allow the party to have amajority control.QUESTION: Mr. Smith, over a period of years, can you identify any state where your test of partisangerrymandering has persisted over a period of time, fiveyears or more? Can you give us examples of states whereit's persisted over a period of years?MR. SMITH: I'm not sure that I - that I haveenough knowledge of political history going back decadesto be able to tell you whether that's the case or not. Itcertainly will persist through a decade as long as thewhole leadership of the state doesn't shift over to theother party, as long as the party that committed the - thecrime, so to speak, maintains either the governorship or th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. one house of the legislature to be able to -QUESTION: Because in how many states do we havea situation currently where both houses of the legislatureand the Governor are of one political party?MR. SMITH: There's quite a number of states,including, as it happened in - in this round, a number ofvery competitive states, the - which caused quite a - hadquite a consequential impact on the Congress, Florida,Michigan, Ohio, Pennsylvania, and now more recently, Texashas come into play and decided to play this game.QUESTION: I suppose typically we would expectthat over any period of time that condition wouldn'tremain. You'd - one branch would be in the hands of theother party in time. Certainly if - if you had something like percent of the voters -MR. SMITH: Which, in order to fix the problem,once it already exists, you have to get both houses andthe governorship back to - to pass a second bill. Otherwise, it's in place for the years and then whatalso happens in most states is the state legislatures, ofcourse, gerrymander themselves as well as the - thecongressional seats, in order to keep themselves in aposition where - years hence they'll still be aroundand in control of the process again.So there is a - a fundamental - fundamentally th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. anti-democratic part of this, which means in - in the longrun, you are - you do have very competitive states withextremely skewed congressional delegations. The - thedelegation from Florida is to in a state that has arobust two-party democracy. Now, that - that ultimatelyis not democracy. That's our submission.I'd like to save the balance of my time, YourHonor.QUESTION: Very well, Mr. Smith.Mr. Krill, we'll hear from you.ORAL ARGUMENT OF JOHN P. KRILL, JR.ON BEHALF OF RESPONDENTS JUBELIRER AND PERZELMR. KRILL: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it pleasethe Court:Because politics is inherent in redistricting,any test, including the appellants' proposed test in theirreply brief, requires inherent political choices to bemade, choices that we submit are inappropriate for thejudiciary to make.Appellants' latest test, for example, has hiddenpolitical choices in it that are outcome determinative. For example, they use years of statewide races ratherthan using a single base race, as recommended by thesource they cite in footnote of the -QUESTION: May I ask you kind of a preliminary th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. question? Let's assume that them - that their theorywon't fly, this majority theory is just too impracticaland so forth. But what about the theory advanced in theircomplaint that the - some of the districts, and perhapsall - they allege all - were - were drafted by relyingexclusively on a principle of maximum partisan advantage? And supposing the evidence shows that no neutral criteriaat all were used except let's do the best we can to helpour own party get as many seats as we can. Would thatraise a question at all in your mind?MR. KRILL: No, Your Honor. First, because Idon't think that that's a question that should ever cometo trial. The legislative process is so complex. Everylegislator -QUESTION: Well, what if - what if they narrowedthe allegation, said just district or district wasclearly drawn for this purpose and no other, no neutral,no effort to be compact or contiguous or follow boundarylines or rivers or anything, we just want to get themaximum vote for one particular party here. Would you saythat was permissible?MR. KRILL: It - yes, I would, Your Honor. And -and I would also say that it - it is not only impossibleto prove at trial, but improper to even attempt to proveat trial, because - and we'll - let's take district in th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. Pennsylvania as an example. Because it would requireinquiring into the legislative process in violation oflegislative privilege.QUESTION: No, it would just -MR. KRILL: Legislators are pulled in a milliondirections.QUESTION: It would just say to the - when youhave a - a really strangely distorted district, the burdenis on you to point out one neutral justification for it,and we'll assume that if you - you won't have to go intothe minds of the legislature, just assume there issomething we can point to, such as a boundary line or ifit's fairly compact or it's - but you can't point toanything. You don't have to go into anybody's mind. Youjust say - you give them the opportunity to explain, andthey - they say, well, we have no explanation. We did itjust because we want to get that to be a democraticdistrict.MR. KRILL: If - if the entire legislature enmasse came forward and admitted that -QUESTION: Yes.MR. KRILL: - every legislator said, that's why Ivoted for it, Justice Stevens, I would still say it's apermissible legislative choice. James Madison, after all,in the Constitutional Convention, acknowledged that they th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. were giving to state legislators the power under articleI, section , quote, to so mold their regulations as tofavor certain candidates, closed quote.QUESTION: Is there any duty at all to - any dutyat all in drawing districts to try to do it impartially? Your answer is no?MR. KRILL: Not constitutionally, Your Honor, butthere are -QUESTION: Yeah.MR. KRILL: - political forces that pull them in-QUESTION: I understand that.MR. KRILL: - in a multitude of directions.QUESTION: But then on the Constitution, what about if the legislature decided that the salaries of themajority legislature should be percent higher than theminority legislators?MR. KRILL: I -QUESTION: There'd be a good reason for it,because they have more work to do. They have to vote andthey - they get statutes adopted and programs enacted, sowould that satisfy the constitutional duty? If there is aduty to govern impartially, do you think it would?MR. KRILL: I'm not sure that would prevent a -present a Federal question, Your Honor, but I'm - I'm th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. certain that our supreme court in Pennsylvania wouldaddress it. Our - my - my individual clients, thelegislative leaders, in fact do have higher salaries,precisely for that reason.QUESTION: But that the - all the members of themajority party?MR. KRILL: No. I - I don't think so, YourHonor. I - I can't imagine that even happening.QUESTION: Suppose I have in my -QUESTION: Why not?QUESTION: Oh, sorry. In - in my mind the, whichI don't - I want you to assume for the sake of argument -that - that one thing the Constitution aims at, one thingthough, it wants to leave all this up to the legislature as much as possible, et cetera. But one thing it aims atis majority rule. Therefore, if, over a period of time,we have a districting system where the minority - themajority who get the - the majority of votes end up with aminority of seats in a serious way, that undercuts thedemocracy that the Constitution foresees. And withcomputers, that might happen. Now, suppose I start with that assumption, andI'm looking for a standard. So suppose I combine JusticeStevens' standard with the requirement to keep judges outof it, that this has really to have happened. It's not the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. Harvard faculty. It really happened. And in fact, afterreally happening once, then we also have the experts whotell us it has to happen in the future.Now, we have three things - three requirementsthere that really are designed to police the outer fringe. And if I start with that assumption of what theConstitution wants, why don't I say it imposes those threerequirements?MR. KRILL: All right. Accepting yourassumption, Justice Breyer, I - first of all, I - I thinkthat one would have to look at a lot of different things. The appellants' test, for example, assumes that Democratsare evenly disbursed across the state -QUESTION: Oh, I've rejected their test. MR. KRILL: Right.QUESTION: I've rejected their test. I'veborrowed from it, but rejected it.MR. KRILL: But because -QUESTION: All right. So the test has the threeelements that I said. One, they're experts. Two, itreally happened. And three, Justice Stevens' objectiveversion of there-is-no-other-explanation requirement.MR. KRILL: All right. It - it really did happenin Pennsylvania in . The - and this was under ajudicially-drawn map. All right. The party that had a th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. majority of the popular vote got a minority of thecongressional seats. The same thing happened again in a -in another - in a subsequent election, but it was exactlythe reverse. You know, the Democrats and Republicansflipped.So it - it can, in fact, happen, Your Honor. But if you allow the experts to control over the voters,then you'll never know the truth of what would reallyhappen. And let me give you an example in Bandemeritself. The aftermath of - of the Bandemer case inIndiana is instructive, because two years after this Courthanded down its decision in Bandemer, the Democrats, whowould have had the Court believe that they were consignedto an eternity of Republican tyranny, actually won percent of the state House seats in Indiana. And only twoyears after that, in , they won control, and controlhas flipped back and forth ever since in Indiana.So, I believe that Justice O'Connor's concurringopinion in Bandemer was - was quite on point. The systemis self-correcting. Now, the appellants test in using years, instead of a base race as their own academic sourcerecommends, actually gives a lot of weight to the pastpreferences of voters, dead voters, voters who have moved. Naturally, this is a political choice, because any partythat perceives this influence as waning over time will ask th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. you to adopt a test that gives weight to past choices.They also use high profile offices in choosingtheir races instead of low-profile statewide races, non-charismatic races as their - as their academic sourcerecommends. And, of course, we have such non-charismaticraces in Pennsylvania. We call them statewide appellatejudicial races. Nothing could be more non-charismatic.QUESTION: Unkind of you to say it, sir, unkindof you.(Laughter.)MR. KRILL: And, of course, it - they've made apolitical choice in not using those races either, becausein , the year that our legislature was consideringthis plan, the Republicans took seven out of seven statewide appellate races. They also, as - as - as Imentioned, in their test assumed dispersion of Democratsuniformly, when, in fact, Democrats, as we all know, arecompacted, self-compacted, into urban areas. So, the -the test is very tilted.A curious thing that they do in their test isturn real races into hypothetical races by normalizingthem so as to remove the popularity factor from thoseraces. Well, that's curious, since politics is all abouttrying to achieve that popular edge. What they did notdo, and this is another political choice in constructing th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. the test, is to a use a very - a - a race that waspractically / in Pennsylvania in , a race, by theway, that's cited in their complaint. It's - it's the AlGore race for President. Mr. Gore won . percent of thepopular vote in Pennsylvania.Now, the statistics show that he also would havewon a majority of the congressional districts under theplan that's before this Court if he had been packaged as acongressional candidate. Actually, he would have won amajority, out of districts. The statistics are inthe joint appendix, page . QUESTION: May - may I again ask you just onequestion about the complaint? Do you think it states acause of action under the theory espoused by Justice Powell in his Davis against Bandemer concurrence in thejudgment? And if not, why not? And then the finalquestion is, and if it does meet that standard, why isn'tthat adequate judicially manageable standards?MR. KRILL: Yeah, I - I confess that I don'tclearly remember Justice Powell's standard forjusticiability in - in his concurrence, Justice Stevens. I do disagree, however, with - with his standard for - forremedial action. He called for a searching and sensitiveinquiry. And I submit there really are no neutral -QUESTION: Well, but the first question - th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. MR. KRILL: - principles.QUESTION: - before you reach remedy is whetherthere's a violation.MR. KRILL: Yes.QUESTION: And his theory basically was, there'sa violation if there are certain wildly - wildly-defineddistricts that have no neutral justification except togive partisan advantage to the people who had the power todraft them and who did not even consult the adversaryparty in drafting them. That was his standard.MR. KRILL: Well, that's impossible to prove andimproper to prove. For example -QUESTION: It's a matter of burden-shifting, andif they can't come up with any explanation whatsoever other than partisan advantage, that that's a violation ofthe - of the duty to govern impartially. And either thereis no such duty or it is a violation.MR. KRILL: Justice Powell's standard wouldrequire individual legislators to come in and say, here'swhy I voted. Here's - here's the - here's the -QUESTION: Well, do you think - do you think it'simpossible to prove that race was the predominant motivein a particular redistricting plan?MR. KRILL: There are standards this Court hasadopted, the Gingles standards for - for making - making th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. that case, Your Honor. However, I - I think -QUESTION: Well, I mean, do you have to be areally tricky, astute, very clever fact-finder to figureout what was going on here?MR. KRILL: Well, yes you would, in fact. Infact, I don't think - see how you could. In - in thiscase, for example, it's impossible for the appellants'counsel to even say whether their clients were SantorumDemocrats or Gore Democrats. Both won Pennsylvania in.QUESTION: But again, under Justice Powell'sstandard, they wouldn't have to do that.MR. KRILL: No.QUESTION: They would just have to say, this is totally irrational unless you can come up with anexplanation.MR. KRILL: That - that's correct. Now, voters -they would have to believe -QUESTION: Of course, it doesn't - it doesn'tmake much sense to find something justiciable that youcan't possibly devise a remedy for, does it? I mean, toseparate the question of - of whether there's a violationfrom the question of remedy, as though, you know, we'll -we'll - we'll cross that bridge when we get to it, doesn'tseem to me very realistic. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. MR. KRILL: Oh, if, in fact, I agree, JusticeScalia. If the court ignores the remedial phase thatwould necessarily follow -QUESTION: But, of course, the remedy would bethat redraw district using some neutral criteria.MR. KRILL: There are no -QUESTION: That's certainly not an impossiblestandard.MR. KRILL: It is, Your Honor. There are noneutral criteria. Name a criterion and I'll show you whyit represents a political choice.QUESTION: Historical boundaries, contiguity,compactness, maintaining incumbents of both parties. There are lots of neutral criteria available, and any one of them might justify an other - what seemed on its faceto be a very wild district.MR. KRILL: Respectfully, Justice Stevens,patterns of development over the last two generations, ifyou - if you put them on a - on a map, they look likesplatters of paint on a canvas. They're not pretty.QUESTION: Not as much as some -MR. KRILL: But -QUESTION: Not as much as the one in Karcher orthe one in this case do.MR. KRILL: Well, I would point out that - th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. QUESTION: Of course, I guess if there are fivedifferent criteria: compactness, past practice, orwhatever, it's very much a political call which of thefive criteria you decide to - to use.QUESTION: That's a - that's true, and the onlyjudicial call is you've got to use at least one.MR. KRILL: Well, but - but by saying that - bydesignating them as neutral criteria, the judiciary itselfmakes a choice and takes that choice away from the statelegislatures.Voters are not automatons in a matrix controlledby supercomputers. Voters continue to matter, and theycontinue to prove it in election after election. In fact,they proved it in Pennsylvania in under this plan. The th congressional district, which the expertspredicted would go Republican did not. Voters and goodcandidates and good issues and good party organizationcontinue to make the difference, just as they did in -QUESTION: How about the rest of theirpredictions? They got the others right, didn't they?MR. KRILL: Not quite right. QUESTION: Nobody has to bat a thousand, do they?MR. KRILL: Well, but we - if - if the plan hadbeen enjoined, we'd never know how right or wrong theywere. And - and - th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. QUESTION: But we do - we do now know, which doestell us something at least about their predictivecriterion -MR. KRILL: Well -QUESTION: - and - and it is that it - it gets itwrong in one time out of , was that it?MR. KRILL: Yes.QUESTION: One instance out of ?MR. KRILL: Yeah.QUESTION: That's not bad.MR. KRILL: And in - in - in the th district, itwas very close. It was a razor-edge race. But voterscontinue to pull the candidates towards themselves. It's- voters are not disenfranchised. For example, in our th district in western Pennsylvania, the incumbentCongresswoman is - is a fairly conservative Republican -QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. Krill.Ms. DeLone -MR. KRILL: Thank you.QUESTION: We'll hear from you. Mr. DeLone.ORAL ARGUMENT OF J. BART DeLONEON BEHALF OF RESPONDENTS CORTES AND ACCURTIMR. DeLONE: That's all right, Mr. Chief Justice.Mr. Chief Justice, and may it please the Court:The Court should hold that political th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. gerrymandering, if it is justiciable at all, violates theConstitution if and only if the disadvantaged group hasbeen shut out of a political process as a whole. This isthe standard applied by the Court's unconstitutional votedilution cases, and it is consistent with our system ofelecting Members of Congress from individual districts.In a district system such as ours, there are nostatewide elections for a slate of candidates. Rather,individual congressional elections are defined by theunique characteristics of each race. That is whystatewide election results offer no meaningful standardfor judging congressional outcomes. It is also why aproportionality, the idea that some statewide level ofsupport should entitle a political party to capture some specified number of seats, is incompatible with the veryidea of districting, and it is why the Court hasrepeatedly -QUESTION: But Mr. DeLone, I - I think our rulessay we frown on people simply reading their arguments.MR. DeLONE: Yes, Your Honor, I'm sorry. And thepoint, Your Honor, is that Mr. Smith and appellants' planwill lead the Court to proportionality if - if the Courtdoes not consistently apply the - the vote dilutionstandard that has - has applied in the past. And thatstandard is that you have to be shut out of the political th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. process -QUESTION: Well, the - the - tell - answer - I'llask you a question and then you will get away from yourprepared argument.MR. DeLONE: Thank you.QUESTION: But the - the - the - in - in my ownview, not - not the Court's - in - in my own view in thepositive discrimination race cases, I believed -MR. DeLONE: The - the Whitcomb v. Chavis -QUESTION: The positive discrimination cases, thecases that say you cannot draw a racial district, racial,minority district -MR. DeLONE: The Shaw Line - the Shaw Line cases?QUESTION: Yes, correct.MR. DeLONE: Yes, Your Honor.QUESTION: I said you could, I thought that thelegislature could do that, primarily because if they coulddo it in political party cases, why couldn't they do itin race cases where it's meant to help the minority? Well, I lost that. So believing what I thought, doesn'tthe reverse hold true? If this Court has found manageablestandards to use to control positive discrimination infavor of racial minorities for drawing boundaries, then mygoodness, why can't it find standards to prevent theRepublicans from doing the same thing to the Democrats or th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. the Democrats from doing the same thing to theRepublicans?MR. DeLONE: Because, Your Honor, in the ShawLine of cases, what they were doing is they were trying toisolate race from all other factors, including politics.QUESTION: And in here, we're trying to - toisolate being a Democrat or being a Republican -MR. DeLONE: Yes, Your -QUESTION: - from all other factors, becauseafter all, as Justice Stevens pointed out, they've beenable to come up with no explanation other than we did itbecause they're Democrats.MR. DeLONE: Well, Your Honor -QUESTION: That's what the word predominate means -MR. DeLONE: Right.QUESTION: - and you'd insist on that showing -MR. DeLONE: But, but Your -QUESTION: - just as you do insist on thepredominant showing in the race case.MR. DeLONE: But, Your Honor, assuming that to becorrect, there's nothing wrong with them saying, we did itjust because they're Democrats.QUESTION: Ah, yes, there is, because what'swrong with it is if you carry it to an extreme with th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. computers, you prevent the majority of voters fromsecuring the majority of seats. And that simple principlethat the majority should govern is the basic principle ofdemocracy. So if you find that in the Constitution, it'sjust as wrong.MR. DeLONE: Well, I think you have to - you haveto look at what majority you're talking about, Your Honor. If - in a districting system, you're talking about themajority in a particular district at a particular time.QUESTION: Correct. What we would do is look atthe state and we would look to see if in the - we couldeven give a margin of error. The party that got percent of the votes ended up with percent of theseats, okay? Objective, contrary to majority rule, and produced simply by intentional gerrymandering for no otherpurpose.MR. DeLONE: But, Your Honor, if you're doingthat, you're - you're - you're going into proportionality. You're saying, if you're entitled to a - to a sum state.QUESTION: No, no proportionality. Forget theproportionality. I agree with you a perfectly randomsystem will produce Republican delegation, so I agreewith you about that. I'm only sticking to the majorityrule.QUESTION: Do - do people always vote for a th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. particular candidate because he's a Republican or - or -or she's a Democrat?MR. DeLONE: Absolutely not, Your Honor, and that-QUESTION: Of course not. So you can't tell fromthe Republican votes how many of those are Republicanvotes and how many of them are, you know, Smith votes or -MR. DeLONE: Exactly right, Your Honor, andthat's why the idea of comparing any sort of statewidevote with the districting votes that you actually have isinconsistent with -QUESTION: Even if that's true, is it not obviousfrom the configuration of some of the districts, thatthose who drafted the districts thought they could predict what they were going to do?MR. DeLONE: Again, Your Honor, assuming thatthat's correct, there's nothing wrong with it.QUESTION: Oh, okay.MR. DeLONE: And as far as the - the - what levelyou come to in a - in a majority/minority consignment,Justice Breyer, I think the way that the Bandemerplurality did it, again, applying what this Court hasconsistently applied in vote - in the vote dilution cases,by which I mean the Whitcomb v. Chavis line of cases, isto say, all right, let's look at this and see if it's like th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. a diagnostic test, like a threshold. Have we got aproblem here where, over time, and I'm not sure how muchtime, but over a significant amount of time, it looks likethe majority overall is being consigned in some way.But, once you do that, you must look elsewhere,which is what Rogers says, Whitcomb says, all of the - thevote dilution cases say. You can't ever look at electoralresults alone. That's never sufficient. What you mustlook to is whether or not there's been something else thathas caused a self-perpetuating breakdown in the democraticprocess, because as soon as you - and -QUESTION: Do you agree with your colleague thatthere is no need for any neutral justification when you'redrawing districts? That it can be done solely for the purpose - granted it be an attempt that might not succeed,nobody knows for sure how people are going to vote, but isit permissible for a legislative body not even to consult- I mean, the majority of a legislative body not even toconsult another party, not even to take anything intoconsideration except trying to get the maximum results atthe - the election?MR. DeLONE: Yes, Your Honor. That'spermissible, and we think that was the whole point of whatwe call the racial gerrymandering line of cases, that is,the Shaw Line of cases, where they were saying, okay, we th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. have a special category here that relates to race, andwhat we're trying to do is define the difference betweenrace, which is inherently suspect, and which requiresspecial scrutiny, and politics, which the Court repeatedlysaid -QUESTION: But if you take that position, thenyou must be taking the position, I guess you are, that the- the holding in Bandemer that this was a just -justiciable issue is just erroneous?MR. DeLONE: Your Honor, we think that -QUESTION: That's your basic position?MR. DeLONE: We certainly think that the Courtshould take this opportunity to find that - that - thatpolitical gerrymandering is non-justiciable. We thinkthat would be the simplest and the cleanest way to franklyget out of the political thicket.But - but even if you don't do that, what - whatthe Bandemer plurality was doing was simply applying whatthis Court has - has always applied with respect to votedilution. And we think it would be kind of strange if the- excuse me, Your Honor.QUESTION: May I ask you this? Do you think thecomplaint states a cause of action under Justice Powell'sopinion in Bandemer?MR. DeLONE: I heard you ask that before, Your th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. Honor.QUESTION: That's why I thought I'd ask you. Youhad fair warning of the question.(Laughter.)QUESTION: Don't tell me you didn't read theopinion.MR. DeLONE: No, no. Yes, Your Honor, I - I - Ithink it would, because Justice Powell thought in terms ofneutral districting criteria and thought there was someobjective reality out there. And frankly, we don't thinkthere is one, and if you start down the road of electoralresults, we submit that -QUESTION: No, no. He doesn't start down theroad of electoral results. He - he focuses on intent, that it's an intent to use nothing except a non-neutralcriterion in drafting the regulations. And you'resuggesting that's permissible. That would not requirecounting votes after the election.MR. DeLONE: With respect to intent, Your Honor,we - we think it - it's - you certainly can assume thatthere was political intent in a - in a politicalgerrymander -QUESTION: And nothing else.MR. DeLONE: It - it certainly could be nothingelse, Your Honor. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. QUESTION: So is this a - an intent of a baremajority or all of them? What - what - what if -MR. DeLONE: Well, I think you can presume thatas - as Justice Ginsburg pointed out, of in theDemocratic caucus voted for the plan. I think you canpresume that they were in some way -QUESTION: You can only - that's a matter ofdefense. You can't presume that based on the allegationsat the complaint.MR. DeLONE: No, I - I was trying to addressJustice Scalia's question about -QUESTION: I'm trying to get to how you - how youdetermine intent.MR. DeLONE: Well, I - I -QUESTION: Or whether it's based on the majorityor -MR. DeLONE: I - I think you can presume thatwhatever the voting, there was some political motivation,and I think you can presume that the political motivationmight be different for different groups, differentparties. And - and frankly, we - we don't - we don't havea problem with the intent -QUESTION: Belling the cat. I mean, it'swonderful to use intent. How do you find intent? That's- legislative intent is very hard to determine. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. MR. DeLONE: And - and - and I think the intentwould be - would different. But it's - you can evenassume that it's political -QUESTION: Well, how did you find it in the - inthe first racial gerrymandering case? Didn't you find itpartly by looking at the shape of that district in NorthCarolina?MR. DeLONE: Yes, Your Honor.QUESTION: Didn't that shift the burden?MR. DeLONE: Yes, Your Honor, you did. But inthe - in the racial gerrymandering cases, you were lookingfor something that was race-neutral.QUESTION: You were also looking for predominantmotive, not what the exclusive motive is, which is the test that Justice Stevens is - is proposing.MR. DeLONE: That - that's correct, Your Honor.QUESTION: The - the exclusive motive just iseasier to respond to, because all you got to do is come upwith one neutral justification and you use the neutraljustifications that the Court identified itself in theracial gerrymandering cases, such as contiguity andcompactness and so forth.MR. DeLONE: But again, Your Honor, your - your -the premise of your question is that there's somethingwrong with political motivation. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. QUESTION: Correct. That's exactly right. No,no, the premise of the - what the question is that there'sa duty to govern impartially, and that if you have no dutyexcept partisan advantage, the case is just like saying,we're going to pay the majority legislatures a highersalary than the minority legislatures.MR. DeLONE: Well, Your Honor, I - I think thatwhen you're - when you're dealing with a - a politicalquestion like districting, you're - you're - I think nopolitical party worth its salt is going to be - not thinkit's - it's doing what's in the public interest to giveitself as much advantage as possible.QUESTION: It can do that as long as it has someother basis for doing it, and that's history what we did over years and years and years, states have followed anattempt to get compact districts, your neighbors are inthe same voting area as you are and so forth, not thesefancy designs that are really a recent product ofpolitics.MR. DeLONE: But, Your Honor, in - in all ofthese traditional districting criteria, they're basicallyused as tools by the political parties to seek what kindof political advantage they can. And again, we submitthat that is - is - there's nothing wrong with that. Andthe question is whether or not you've been shut out of the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. process, whether something else is happening that suggeststhat the - the process itself is broken. And if you -QUESTION: For example, what would that be?MR. DeLONE: Well, Your Honor, it's - it'shappened in the past. It's - it's - it's happened withReynolds and Baker, and it's happened with -QUESTION: But that isn't gerrymandering.MR. DeLONE: No, it isn't, but it's the kind ofbreakdown -QUESTION: You're saying there's nogerrymandering unless there's something else.MR. DeLONE: Yes.QUESTION: Which is to say there's no such thingas cognizable political gerrymandering, period. MR. DeLONE: I - I think what the Bandemerplurality was trying to do was to leave the door slightlyajar for something that, frankly, in our political systemis too resilient to - to allow to happen, but it'sconceivable that it could happen. And frankly, we thinkthat it's strange to try and change the - the standard,which is well established in this Court's jurisprudence,just because the political system doesn't allow it tooccur.And we think that once you go down the road ofelectoral results, you go down the road of th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. proportionality. And the - the references that - thatappellants' counsel keep making to majorities arestatewide majorities, and that is proportionality. Thatis a political judgement, and we believe that the Courthas properly rejected that and the Court should continueto apply the unconstitutional vote dilution standard andthat that - if - if they find that it's justiciable atall, and that the easiest and simplest thing for the Courtto do is to find that political gerrymandering is in factunconstitutional - excuse me, non-justiciable as a matterof law.QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. DeLone.Mr. Smith, you have two minutes remaining.REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF PAUL M. SMITHON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERSMR. SMITH: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice. Let mestart off by saying I do think that our complaintsatisfies the standards of the Powell opinion in - inBandemer that it alleges that partisan maximization wasthe sole driving force behind this map. And indeed, wehad the opportunity in the district court, because of theone person, one vote problem, for the state to come in andtry to come up with some justification for their line-drawing other than partisan maximization, and the districtcourt found as a fact in that trial that the map th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. jettisoned every criterion that this Court ever identifiedin Karcher, other than partisan maximization.QUESTION: I take it the results you're urging onus would require us to supervise local entities, citycouncils, boards of supervisors -MR. SMITH: They -QUESTION: - water districts.MR. SMITH: They - they - they as well canviolate the constitutional rights of the people who livein those jurisdictions, Your Honor.And let me just address the - the question ofwhether it makes sense to wait and see how the electionscome out and see whether there is, in fact, this antimajoritarian effect from the line-drawing. One of thereal practical problems with that is that the linesthemselves in a - in an extreme gerrymander like this, can- can effect the statewide aggregate vote totalsthemselves.You saw that right here where, in - with thehistory of votes very evenly divided in a - in a balancedmap through the 's, a court-drawn map. Suddenly withthis gerrymander you had five Republicans runningunopposed, you had a number of the Democratic incumbentsdefeated in the primaries because they squared off -QUESTION: I guess if it were the constitutional th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. rule, the party could adjust and try to run strongcandidates, even in overwhelmingly Republican districts.MR. SMITH: Well, I suppose that that is in factthe case, but you can't assume that the - the vote totalsunder a gerrymander are independent of the effects ofthat. First of all, if they pair the incumbents, they'rejust not there to run anymore, and there's a substantialdistortion caused by the map.There was some discussion by Mr. Krill ofjudicial races as the - the test of - of partisan balancein the map because the - the supposition was that judges,when they run, don't have any great personal magnetism, Iguess. But he didn't mention the - the race that wascited in our reply brief, which - this was - where Mr. Bayer ran as a Democrat, got percent of the votesstatewide, and carried six out of the districts. Thatis an indication of the basic fundamental packing andcracking that's in the map, and is in fact a form ofsevere discrimination, making some voters' votes countmuch more forcefully than others.Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice. CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: Thank you, Mr. Smith The case is submitted.(Whereupon, at : p.m., the case in theabove-entitled matter was submitted.) th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. 