 IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XBEDROC LIMITED, LLC, AND WESTERN ELITE, INC., Petitioners :::v. : No. -UNITED STATES, ET AL. :- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XWashington, D.C.Tuesday, January , The above-entitled matter came on for oralargument before the Supreme Court of the United States at: a.m.APPEARANCES:R. TIMOTHY McCRUM, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf ofthe Petitioners.THOMAS L. SANSONETTI, ESQ., Assistant Attorney General,Department of Justice; Washington, D.C.; on behalf ofthe Respondents. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. C O N T E N T SORAL ARGUMENT OF R. TIMOTHY McCRUM, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioners THOMAS L. SANSONETTI, ESQ.On behalf of the Respondents REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OFR. TIMOTHY McCRUM, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioners PAGE th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. P R O C E E D I N G S(: a.m.)CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: We'll hear argumentnow in No. -, BedRoc Limited and Western Elite v.the United States. Mr. McCrum.ORAL ARGUMENT OF R. TIMOTHY McCRUMON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERSMR. McCRUM: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court:This case began in when the Bureau of LandManagement issued notices of trespass for the extractionof common sand and gravel from private land in the Nevadadesert about miles from Las Vegas. The central issue in this case is whether, underthe Pittman Act, the reservation of valuable mineralsincluded common sand and gravel that were -- that werewidespread and made up the bulk of the land.Now, the purpose of the Pittman Act was todevelop the State of Nevada by granting private land tocitizens who made personal sacrifices to discover anddevelop underground sources of water that was not -- thatwere not previously known.QUESTION: It applied only in Nevada, did itnot? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. MR. McCRUM: Yes, Your Honor. Now, Mabel and Newton Butler in this caseexplored and found a -- a source of underground water andobtained a land patent from the United States Governmentin .As we've explained in the briefs, the plainmeaning of the words valuable minerals, as used in the Pittman Act, did not include the sand and gravel atissue here because these common earthen materials in theNevada desert were not included in the contemporaneouslegal understanding of the term mineral when the act waspassed in and these materials did not have intrinsicvalue at the time of the enactment of the act in -- and at the time of the patent granting in . QUESTION: Does the gravel excavation take upwhat? About to acres out of some , which is thetotal surface area or?MR. McCRUM: Yes, Justice Kennedy. That's --that's the approximate size at the time BLM conducted itsreport in or so.QUESTION: Do we know, is that the sum total ofthe gravel that's there? Could they -- does it go on forthe -- another acres or so?MR. McCRUM: We have photographs of the site inthe joint appendix of the case that show the area of the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. -- of the land in the general vicinity to be essentiallythe same. It's common. Sand and gravel is -- is prettymuch covering that whole general area.Now, the Pittman Act's structure reservedvaluable minerals to the Government in section , and atthe same time it did that, it provided that those reservedvaluable minerals would be subject to location anddevelopment by others. At that time, the -- theexpectation of how this -- how these materials would bedeveloped, whatever was reserved as valuable minerals, wasunder the Mining Law which itself applied to valuableminerals. So those were --QUESTION: Are you now -- the time you'rereferring to is or ?MR. McCRUM: , Mr. Chief Justice. At that -- in -- in the act itself, it providedfor location to occur of the reserved valuable mineralestate under the Mining Law. So, therefore, it's --it's quite important to look --QUESTION: Mr. McCrum, you left out one word inthe Mining Law. It didn't say valuable minerals. Itsaid, valuable mineral deposits, and there's a significantdifference between -- a lump of silver might betremendously valuable, but it wouldn't be a deposit ifthat's all there was. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. MR. McCRUM: Your Honor is -- is correct thatvaluable mineral deposits is the -- is the languagereferred to in -- in U.S.C., section of the Mining Law. U.S.C., section actually refers tovaluable mineral lands. And those terms were reallyviewed as quite similar by the Interior Department at thetime, and the question was whether a particular type ofmineral was -- was within the class of minerals that the Mining Law was subject to. And in , if an individual sought toestablish a mining claim for common sand and gravel,claiming a discovery of valuable minerals in , it isquite clear and certain how the Interior Department wouldhave addressed that in . Interior would have quickly denied the patent and rejected the application of the Mining Law to common sand and gravel.Now, we know that because we can look to thepublished Interior Department decisions of the day whichwere published at that time, as they are now, availablefor citizens, as well as the Congress to -- to look at. And the repeated decisions from , in particular,through made it very clear that common earthenmaterials, such as clay, sand and gravel, used for roadbase, cement-making purposes, things of that nature, weresimply not subject to the -- the Mining Law. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. QUESTION: Now, what would -- what would LandManagement have done in ?MR. McCRUM: In -- by , the -- the InteriorDepartment had modified its view in and there saidthat -- that sand and gravel could be subject to theMining Law if valuable on a site-specific basis. Andunder that modified view, adopted by Interior in inthe Layman v. Ellis decision, it confirmed the importanceof assessing the marketability on a site-specific basis.QUESTION: At -- at the time of the patent?MR. McCRUM: At -- well, the Layman decisioninvolved a -- a question of whether it was valuable at thetime of the patent in that case, which was a Mining Lawpatent being considered. And then in , the Interior Department, looking at the -- at the position that Laymanv. Ellis took, applied that in the context of a mineralreservation, as we have here, and said in the context of amineral reservation, if it's to include these -- thesecommon materials, it can only include those materials whenthere is value at the time of the patent.QUESTION: You say the Interior Department tookthat position. How? Was that a -- a solicitor's opinionor what?MR. McCRUM: Yes. Yes, Your Honor. That was ina solicitor's opinion in . It's a solicitor's opinion th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. which this Court took note of in the Western Nucleardecision in and -- and relied on.QUESTION: Well, Western Nuclear certainly cutsthe other way from your argument here today. I didn'tagree with the holding, but that was the holding of theCourt. It was under a different act, not the Pittman Act,but certainly very similar.MR. McCRUM: Justice O'Connor, the WesternNuclear decision did hold that gravel could be reservedunder the Stock-Raising Homestead Act of , butimportantly, the issue of whether that sand and gravel hadto be valuable at the time of the patent was not addressedin the holding of the Court, as the Government hasacknowledged in its brief.QUESTION: Well, wasn't that because the wordvaluable didn't include in the -- wasn't included in thereservation of Stock-Raisers Act?MR. McCRUM: It -- it could well have been --that -- that could have been part of the Court's thinking. In -- in the Pittman Act, we do have an emphasis on theterm, valuable minerals, in the plain language of thestatute, and certainly that is a further reason why theelement of value is all the more important in this case,both at the time of enactment in , as well as at -- atthe patent. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. QUESTION: Why couldn't it be that the -- theword valuable doesn't mean at the time of the patent? Itmeans reserves the mineral rights, and if and when theyprove valuable, the Government will assert its right. Imean, one could imagine a metal that was not consideredworth anything. Let's just suppose that was the view ofuranium. And then years later, one realizes thetremendous value of that metal. Would one say that, well,because when the patent was granted, no one had any ideahow valuable this would be, therefore when it turns outthat it is indeed very valuable, the United States hasn'tany reserved rights?MR. McCRUM: Well, Your Honor, that -- thatcould be a possible construction, but in this case the Interior Department in the solicitor's opinion tooknote of the common nature of sand and gravel and howwidespread it is across the western public domain andrecognized that there was a need to look at -- at value ona site-specific marketability basis, which was actuallyconsistent with the -- the approach the Department took inthe Layman v. Ellis decision in -- in , looking at thesite-specific marketability of sand and gravel, becauseunlike a precious metal like gold which, once you extractit, it can be sold on an international market withoutregard to transportation costs and has intrinsic value, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. sand and gravel and -- and similar materials are -- arecommon and widespread across the western public domainand, in fact, across the country. And it is only whereyou have a market on a site-specific basis that you canhave value established.QUESTION: What would happen, though, if you --what -- would any bad thing happen if the words wereinterpreted to mean any mineral at all that ever becomesvaluable in the future so that then a person who boughtthis land could never take anything off of it? TheGovernment would have the right to all the dirt. Anythingthat he -- anything that the individual sold, he couldn'tsell. It would be the Government that would have to sellit. Now, if you took that interpretation, what would happen?MR. McCRUM: Justice Breyer, if -- if you tookthat interpretation, you would have western landownersessentially being -- having a very, very limited surface-- surface estate interest that would essentially be atthe discretion of the Government where when local -- localdemands for these materials arose, the Government at anytime could come in and assert that they have ownership ofthese widespread common materials which would actuallydestroy -- potentially destroy the value of the land and-- and further, eliminate any private incentives to th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. develop the private land, which was the intent of Congressin .QUESTION: One -- one way to -- to rule for yourclient here would be for the Court to hold that it is nota mineral if it can't be removed without disturbing the --the surface, and that certainly would resolve this case. I'm hesitant to say that, though, because of the placermining of gold, et cetera. Could you comment on that?MR. McCRUM: Yes, Justice Kennedy. We are notadvocating such a rule, although it certainly in this casebears -- is certainly a significant factor that thiscommon, widespread material actually would essentiallydestroy the surface of the land.QUESTION: Yes, that's what's bothering me. What -- what are we to do with that factor? I just don'tsee how you can get the gravel without completelydestroying the -- the surface use that -- that the ownermight want to put to it --MR. McCRUM: Well --QUESTION: -- assuming there's a differentowner. This -- this happens to be the owner that makesthat choice.MR. McCRUM: Yes. Justice Kennedy, it's justthat type of factor that have caused the vast majority ofState and Federal court decisions that have addressed the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. question of whether gravel is a reserved mineral in anytype of private conveyance and cases involving theGovernment where they acquire a surface interest that havecaused these -- the Federal and State courts to rulealmost uniformly that gravel is not a -- a reservedmineral in the absence of some express intent to indicatethat it should be reserved.QUESTION: Of course, but you're -- you're inthat boat too. I mean, you -- you acknowledge that if thesand and gravel was valuable at the time the patent wasissued, the Government would -- would own it under themineral reservation. So, I mean, despite the fact thatyou'd have to chew up the surface land to -- to get at itwith a commercial value. Right? MR. McCRUM: Well, Justice Scalia, we -- we --so, I mean, we have two positions here and -- and one isthat sand and gravel was -- was not reasonably within the-- the meaning of this phrase as it was -- was used in considering the common legal understanding which had-- had been developed by the Interior Department quiteclearly between and that made it very clear that-- that common, widespread sand and gravel was not whatthe -- was not what was considered to be a valuablemineral at that time.QUESTION: Well, if it wouldn't be considered a th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. valuable -- I mean, that -- that does bring you into --into contradiction of our prior cases because if that --if that were so, it wouldn't have been considered amineral either, it seems to me. MR. McCRUM: That's correct, Justice Scalia, butwe -- we -- in this case we do have the further expresslanguage of -- of valuable.QUESTION: Yes, the problem is you have WesternNuclear, which said that gravel was a mineral. Now you'vegot a statute in the Pittman Act that says valuableminerals, which brings you to your fall-back positionwhich is that if at the time of patenting the land itwasn't valuable commercially, then it isn't covered. Isthat right?MR. McCRUM: Yes, Justice O'Connor. If -- ifthe Western Nuclear precedent is followed and applied tothe Pittman Act, then our -- our primary position isthat the material was not valuable at the time of patent.QUESTION: It's a little odd in this Pittman Actbecause it -- it does in section refer to valuableminerals, but at various other times in the act, it justsays minerals.MR. McCRUM: In -- in section of the PittmanAct, it -- the statute makes it quite clear that onlyvaluable minerals are reserved. And then it -- in -- in th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. later parts of that section, it refers to, and the mineralso reserved shall be disposed in accordance with law. Idon't think that changes the -- the meaning of thereservation, and it's further confirmed here by the actualpatent issued by the Interior Department in the jointappendix where only valuable minerals are reserved in thepatent.QUESTION: Suppose --QUESTION: Is that term used in any other actthat we'd be concerned with the term, valuable minerals,as a reservation?MR. McCRUM: Not as a reservation that I'm awareof, Your Honor, but it is -- is, of course, quite similarto the language used in the Mining Law which described what -- what -- how -- what would be done withthe reserved mineral estate.QUESTION: Suppose -- and -- and it's only asupposition -- that we were to reconsider our -- ourearlier case, Western Nuclear, and -- and overrule it. It-- it seems to me that then -- then there would be chaoticlawsuits to follow because there would not -- not havebeen intentional trespasses but the wrong people wouldhave been extracting the minerals if there had ever been a-- a grant by the Government to -- to a person other thanthe owner of the fee. Is there any precedent in the Court th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. for how we unwind the -- the clock, or whatever themetaphor is?MR. McCRUM: Well, as we -- as we point out inour reply brief, Justice Kennedy, the amount of land thatis potentially subject to contract issued by theGovernment for gravel on reserved mineral estates appearsto be on the order of less than two-tenths of percent ofthe lands patented under the Stock-Raising Homestead Act. So the vast majority of private lands at stake would --would not be affected by a ruling except to the extentthat it would confirm that the landowner has the commonsand and gravel that -- that was part of the landconveyed.QUESTION: But your fall -- your fall-back position would extend only to Nevada, I take it, and thefact that it was valuable would be distinguishing from theWestern Nuclear case.MR. McCRUM: Yes, Mr. Chief Justice. The -- thePittman Act itself applies solely in Nevada and regardlessof whether the Court were to reconsider Western Nuclear,we think that Western Nuclear should certainly not beextended to this act which has the term, valuableminerals, express in the statute and where the time ofpatenting issue was not addressed by Western Nuclear, asthe Government acknowledges. There's no issue of stare th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. decisis if -- if the Court is to say the time of patent isparamount, as the Interior Department itself has held inthe solicitor's opinion and as the Tenth Circuitruled in the Hess case only last fall.QUESTION: Mr. McCrum, I don't understand whatyour response to Justice Ginsburg's question is under yourfall-back position. That is to say, what do you do withuranium which was not regarded as a valuable mineral whenthe patent was issued and nowadays is regarded as a veryvaluable mineral? What happens to uranium under yourfall-back position?MR. McCRUM: Yes, Justice Scalia. Uranium isclearly a rare, valuable mineral. Whether or not itwas --QUESTION: Oh, it is now. It wasn't then.MR. McCRUM: Yes.QUESTION: I mean, it was rare but not valuable.MR. McCRUM: Yes, and -- and therefore, it is --it is clearly within the class of minerals that the --that the Mining Law applied. It has --QUESTION: Well, why is it if it's not valuable? I mean, that -- that's the problem. If it wasn't valuableat the time of patenting, what do you do with it? Itseems to me that if -- if your argument is going to beconsistent, you're going to say the -- the Government th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. hasn't reserved the right to uranium.MR. McCRUM: Justice Souter, the -- uranium isclearly of a -- a valuable, rare nature.QUESTION: No, but you're changing thehypothesis. Justice Scalia's question was, if it wasn'tvaluable at the time of the patent, but we have nowdiscovered uses for it so that it is valuable, what do youdo with uranium? And I would have thought that yourposition would be the Government loses on uranium too.MR. McCRUM: Of course, the Court may -- mayview it that way, Justice Souter. The -- the way I wouldview it is that uranium is a rare, valuable mineral,similar to gold, silver, lead, and zinc, and it's verydifferent --QUESTION: Well, I guess you could take theposition that a mineral like uranium has some intrinsicvalue, very little as of and more today, but thatsand and gravel neither in nor today has anyintrinsic value as a mineral. It is only when it islocated near an urban center and therefore has value as aconvenience. I suppose that would be your argument. MR. McCRUM: Yes, Justice O'Connor. Thank you. That -- that is -- that is precisely the distinction. (Laughter.) MR. McCRUM: That is precisely the distinction. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. QUESTION: Well, I mean, you -- you could sayuranium only has -- only -- has no intrinsic value. Itonly has value if you're splitting atoms. I mean, you canmake the same -- the same argument about uranium.MR. McCRUM: But uranium is -- is not dependentupon local transportation costs in the way that sand andgravel was, and that is the fundamental distinction --QUESTION: This must have come up under -- under-- it has nothing to do with -- I don't think, with theword valuable. It has to do with the word mineralscovered in leases all over the country. So it must havecome up in this other context too. Western Nuclear,putting that aside, that somebody looks at titanium orsome -- something. Maybe it's never come up, but I would think it would be true of every mineral lease, that --that you have some kind of a mineral that had no value in or and today it's fabulous. And -- and does --are they -- do they cover them or don't they cover them? Maybe you don't know. I don't know, but I don't see thatthe word value has much to do with it.MR. McCRUM: The -- the way that it has come upis -- would be in the -- the most analogous way that I canthink of is in the context of the Mining Law where,although that language was enacted in , the InteriorDepartment has had no trouble with the administration of th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. that law determining that -- that uranium is subject tolocation as a mining claim under the --QUESTION: It was a mineral in . I mean,nobody --QUESTION: Yes, but everything was.QUESTION: -- nobody disputes that it was amineral, which is what the -- what the mining act says. The -- the issue is whether it's a valuable mineral. Inyour fall-back position, you're placing a lot of weight onthe adjective valuable, and that -- that created problemswith -- with uranium.QUESTION: Didn't we have a case that involved,was it methane, that was thought not only did it have novalue, but it was a positive detriment to have it? Andthen years later it turned out to be something veryvaluable.MR. McCRUM: Yes, Justice Ginsburg, that wouldhave been the Amoco v. Southern Ute case in . Therethe question is -- was whether under the contemporaneousunderstanding in and did coal include coal bedmethane. The Court looked to that common understandingand common meaning and said, no, it didn't. And that'sprecisely the same approach we're asking the Court tofollow here.QUESTION: So who had the reserve? Didn't th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. somebody have reserved rights in it?MR. McCRUM: Yes. The -- the Government hadinitially reserved coal and -- and the question waswhether that pure coal reservation extended to the coalbed methane within the coal, and the -- and the Courtconcluded no. So it -- it is -- it is a case that we relyon to look to the contemporaneous interpretation andunderstanding at the time.And here, sand and gravel was well known. Itwas widespread, and there were repeated InteriorDepartment decisions that said this is not the type ofmineral that is subject to the Mining Law as a -- asa valuable mineral.QUESTION: May I ask you a question about an --an argument that hasn't specifically come up this morning? And, first, I just want to tell you what my -- myunderstanding of the argument is and -- and you tell me ifI've got it wrong. I thought one of your arguments was that it wasimportant to know whether the mineral was valuable or notat the time of the patent or the deed because the -- thegrantee, the patentee, ought to know, in effect, theextent to which his -- his land grant is -- is jeopardizedby the Government's right to come in. He ought to be ablemake a rough judgment as to whether at some point they're th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. going to come in and start extracting things. Is -- isthat a fair statement? MR. McCRUM: Yes, Justice Souter. Correct.QUESTION: My -- my question is this. If -- ifthat is the reason for saying we should look to value atthe time of the patent, isn't that an argument that is atodds with your position that if the mineral is valuable atthe time, it is reserved? Because -- the reason I saythat is this. There may be gold under the land, but thepatentee doesn't know it and the Government doesn't knowit. So that there is no way, at the time the deed passes,that the person taking that deed is going to be able toknow whether, at some point in the future, the Governmentis going to come in and -- and start drilling a mining shaft in the land. So my question is, regardless of what the dateat -- at which value is established, isn't it the casethat these patentees never really know whether at somefuture time the Government is going to come in and startdrilling? And if that is so, why should the patent datebe important? MR. McCRUM: Justice Souter, you're -- you'recorrect that there is -- there's always some level ofuncertainty when a party takes land subject to a mineralreservation. But the distinction that is important that th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. the Interior Department has long recognized and -- andthat the Federal and State courts have recognized is thatin the case of a common, widespread material such asgravel, it is -- it is the value at the time of patentwhich needs to be looked to. And that's what --QUESTION: So are you saying basically, look,that's the way we've done it and you ought to defer to thepractice? Is that -- I mean --MR. McCRUM: We are -- we are --QUESTION: -- is that the foundation for yourargument? MR. McCRUM: We are saying that this is the waythe Interior Department itself has done it, and this --and this is the Interior Department that here is asserting a different rule today. And the Interior Department andthe decisions of this Court have recognized a distinctionbetween common material such as sand and gravel andprecious metals and other materials that have intrinsicvalue and recognized a distinction to look tomarketability and local, site-specific factors.QUESTION: When -- when you say today about --and you cite the opinion of the solicitor from , butthe position that the Government is arguing today in thisCourt is not new. This is hardly the first time theGovernment has taken the position that sand and gravel can th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. be valuable minerals.MR. McCRUM: Justice Ginsburg, the -- theposition -- the litigation position which the Governmentis taking here today that value does not matter at thetime of patenting actually has -- is not supported byInterior Department decisions. We are relying on the solicitor's opinion. This Court referred approvingly tothe opinion in -- in Western Nuclear. That opinion hasnever been overruled by the Interior Department and the --and the Interior Department offers no other interpretationof -- on that issue as -- as something that this Courtshould rely on.A further reason that we think that -- thatthese issues should be resolved in a -- in a fair manneris the application of the Leo Sheep precedent of thisCourt which recognizes the sacrifice and -- and -- thathave been made by the private individuals in obtainingthese patents and the inducement that the Governmentcarried out in encouraging parties to make thesesacrifices to obtain these lands. And the purpose of theact would be defeated to -- if -- if the Government isable to later reserve common sand and gravel.QUESTION: But they didn't -- they didn't makesacrifices to get the sand and gravel.MR. McCRUM: Justice Stevens, they made th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. sacrifices to get the land, and the sand and gravel makesup the bulk of the land. And if the Government can latercome back and say, that sand and gravel is ours now thatit has acquired some economic worth, it really defeats thepurpose of putting the lands into -- into privateownership.QUESTION: You're saying it makes up the bulk ofthe land? I mean, I can understand that you would have anargument maybe for -- for limiting what the government cantake if out of your, whatever it is, acres, you know, are gravel and the Government says, too bad, we'retaking it all. But as I understand it, we -- we have notgotten any issue in this case or in other cases about aninequitable enforcement of the -- of the extraction condition. Am I wrong about that?MR. McCRUM: Justice Souter, the Government'sposition is that they own all the common sand and gravelthat makes up this entire parcel of land. As -- as muchas the extraction operations may continue, the Governmentwould continue to take the view that they own every bit ofit based upon the decision of the -- of the Ninth Circuitbelow.QUESTION: Well, you'd have an argument on thefirst prong of Western Nuclear if they took that positionin fact, wouldn't you? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. MR. McCRUM: Well --QUESTION: I mean, that -- that would beinconsistent with the -- with the purpose of the grant inthe first place I suppose. MR. McCRUM: We do -- we do believe that -- thatwe -- that the Government's position is -- is contrary toWestern Nuclear in the sense that it is not -- that it --that it is relying on the value of the sand and graveltoday without regard to what the value was in --QUESTION: No, no, but I'm talking about theextent of it. Does -- does the record indicate that the-- that the -- that you have claimed that -- that onebasis for -- that you should win this case is that theGovernment, in effect, will take, as you put it, the bulk of the property if they win? Is -- is that in the record?MR. McCRUM: What is in the record is that -- isthat this sand and gravel deposit is extracted from thesurface, that the -- that the character of the land iswidespread, abundant common sand and gravel. The -- thephotographs in the record show that the land is of thesame character. The Government's position in this case isthat they own the sand and gravel wherever it may be onthat property. And -- and I think there's no questionthat it comprises the bulk of the land, and -- and Iwouldn't expect the Government to dispute that here today. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. QUESTION: You wish to reserve the balance ofyour time, Mr. McCrum?MR. McCRUM: Yes, Mr. Chief Justice. QUESTION: Very well. We'll hear from you, Mr. Sansonetti.ORAL ARGUMENT OF THOMAS L. SANSONETTION BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTSMR. SANSONETTI: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court:QUESTION: Mr. Sansonetti, I looked in the -- toget some statistics about what Nevada was like in ,and it had a -- a total population of ,. It has anarea of , square miles, which is about person persquare mile. Las Vegas had a population of ,. Thisproperty is miles away from Las Vegas. Does the Government say that it -- that this wasa valuable mineral in when the patent was issued? And if not, when did it become valuable?MR. SANSONETTI: The United States is sayingthat the sand and gravel was, indeed, valuable as a matterof a category of minerals. In other words, the categoryof sand and gravel was valuable actually, we're saying, asfar back as , that the actual passage date of thePittman Act in was the exact time that sand andgravel was valuable. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. QUESTION: Well, dirt is valuable on that basis. I mean, people buy topsoil. And, you know, if you're inan area where -- where a lot of people need topsoil, Isuppose you'd say dirt is valuable.MR. SANSONETTI: In that case I wouldn't,though, Your Honor, because topsoil also mixes bothorganic and inorganic materials. And the test that the --that the Court set out in Western Nuclear was four-legged,and the four-part test for a mineral was that it beinorganic. Extractable from the soil was the second leg. Third one was usable for a commercial purpose, and thefourth one was that the -- the mineral was not somehow tobe included in the use of the surface estate.QUESTION: What if -- what if you had only sand, which wasn't covered by Western Nuclear?MR. SANSONETTI: That would not be a problem inthis particular instance, Mr. Chief Justice, because sandand the gravel are really just a matter of size. Inorder, they go silt, sand, gravel, cobble, building stone.QUESTION: So you say that's no problem for theGovernment. The Government gets the sand too?MR. SANSONETTI: Oh, yes, because sand is amineral.QUESTION: It's a problem for me, even if it'snot for you. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. MR. SANSONETTI: Yes, yes. QUESTION: Doesn't the Government get -- I mean,it gets everything. I mean, what -- what is it -- I mean,you -- mud is made into adobe bricks. I mean, and -- soit gets absolutely everything except for the inches orso that maybe was mixed up that you could grow corn in. And I don't even understand why they wouldn't get that tooif they wanted it.MR. SANSONETTI: Now, I think that the firstthing we have to do is take a look at the purposes of thepassage of both the Stock-Raising Homestead Act and thePittman Act.QUESTION: Am I right in thinking the Governmentgets absolutely everything with the possible exception because of the fourth point of Western Nuclear that I'mnot sure why it even came in, but that if it's mixed withsomething you could grow something in, then they don't getit. But everything else is the Government's. MR. SANSONETTI: Surface, yes. Minerals, no. The -- the Justice is -- Justice Breyer is -- is correct. The degree that the surface has been given to thepatentee, the patentee has total control of the surface --QUESTION: So and then -- if it's so, then atthis time what this amounted to what seemed to be givingthe land away -- it amounted to a lease or a right to use th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. a piece of land to grow crops. And that's all these greatgiveaways were. They were simply a right to use land togrow crops and nothing else.MR. SANSONETTI: Initially the answer to that --that question is yes because if you look at section ofthe Pittman Act, it refers to an affidavit that must besigned by the patentee coming onto the land, and thataffidavit states that they are applying for this patentfor the purposes of reclamation and cultivation and itstates that they are not there as an agent for any othercorporation, mining company, or anything like that. Theyare there for the surface. Basically --QUESTION: All right. Then that whole argumentwould be that's certainly a possible reading of the lease. That's certainly a possible way to look at it, but itwould have come as a great surprise to Senator Pittman andeverybody else at the time in the Interior Department andelsewhere. That's why, to make their argument, they saythat Western Nuclear was certainly wrong and thereforewhat we should do is limit it by turning everything on theword valuable. All right. That I think is their wholeargument and you don't want to --MR. SANSONETTI: And -- and let me -- if I mayshorten our own then, let me say that Congress, in lookingat both the Stock-Raising Homestead Act and the Pittman th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. Act, was basically saying to the patentees through themineral reservation, you could have the surface of theland -- initially the thought was, of course, farming.QUESTION: Well, what if -- what if the surfacehad -- what if the gravel was on the surface?MR. SANSONETTI: Okay. At -- the -- the gravelon the surface that is usable for commercial purposesbelongs to the United States. QUESTION: So they didn't even get that part ofthe surface.MR. SANSONETTI: If they wanted to use the sandand gravel as part of their surface operation as in thefarming where you want to gravel a road, when you turn itinto cement, as was done in this case -- the farmer Butler that obtained the patent in used some of the sand andgravel to make concrete to provide patios, et cetera. Aslong as it is linked to the purpose of the surface, itbelongs to the farmer, but if it's not, it belongs to theUnited States. QUESTION: Why is that? Why is that? Why isthat? Why is that? Is it the same with gold?MR. SANSONETTI: The -- the --QUESTION: So long as he uses the gold in hishouse, it's okay?MR. SANSONETTI: Well, I think that it -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. QUESTION: Or his teeth. QUESTION: Or his teeth, yes. (Laughter.) MR. SANSONETTI: Or his teeth, yes.For -- the long-term policy of the Department ofInterior and the Bureau of Land Management, as is spelledout in great length in footnotes and of WesternNuclear, is that it's always been okay for the owner of asurface estate to go ahead and utilize a mineral so longas it is incident to the purposes --QUESTION: Can I ask --MR. SANSONETTI: -- ordinary farming. QUESTION: -- what -- what are his surfacerights? Can -- can the -- can the Government do whateverit takes in order to get at these minerals?MR. SANSONETTI: The --QUESTION: I mean --MR. SANSONETTI: The answer is yes.QUESTION: -- he -- he supposedly has surfacerights. Don't -- don't they have to preserve his surfacerights when they do this?MR. SANSONETTI: The -- the answer is --QUESTION: But they can just go -- go in and ripup the whole -- the whole acreage in order to --MR. SANSONETTI: The -- the mineral estate is th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. indeed dominant, Justice Scalia, and in fact, the Congressalready thought ahead about what would happen if theentire surface did need to get destroyed to go into a veryvaluable mineral. And that is -- and that thought byCongress is included in sentences and of section ofthe Pittman Act where they make provisions for exactlywhat to do if you have to come in and locate a mineral ortoday you actually contract or sale your -- your sand andgravel.Here's what it said. It said that that personmay come on the land provided he shall not injure, damage,or destroy the permanent improvements of the entryman orpatentee and shall be liable and shall compensate theentryman or patentee for all damages to the crops by reason of such prospecting. And that covers those thatlocate under sentence , and under sentence it coversthose that acquire a right to obtain the mineral through acontract.QUESTION: Is it -- is it true? I -- I supposethere's -- there's placer mining even for gold and I -- Iguess in some instances for coal. But I -- I must tellyou my -- my assumption is that most mineral easements canbe exploited without undue disturbance of the surface. Doyou want to tell me that that's just wrong empirically,factually? Other than gravel. Other than gravel. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. MR. SANSONETTI: The fact here, though -- Imean, the -- the answer is, is that some minerals can beextracted without much harm to the surface. A lot of themdo require it, though.QUESTION: How about coal? How about coal andhow about copper --MR. SANSONETTI: Of course --QUESTION: -- where you destroy huge areas ofthe surface? Do you know? MR. SANSONETTI: You certainly do, JusticeO'Connor. And -- and the fact is that that is exactlywhat was contemplated ahead of time when this particularact was passed. The minerals belong to the United States. And if it was copper and you needed a gigantic pit, so be it. In this case, we have a gigantic pit. Let's not-- you know, if you take a look at the joint appendixpicture , you actually see what we're talking aboutthere. This is not just a -- a surface operation. It's ahuge pit.QUESTION: Well, that's the whole problembecause they say a person who went out to Nevada andinvested his time in this knew perfectly well that theyweren't going to find copper. But if you had told himthat the Government might come in and take all the dirt th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. out and take all the gravel out and take all the sand out,he would have said this is ridiculous. I'm not going togo out there and invest my time to -- to graze a cow whenthe Government can come along and build a copper mine notfor copper but for dirt. I mean, really. So that's -- that's why he says they've madethis historical distinction between something that hasintrinsic value, a precious metal then or now, uranium orgold, and something that's widespread and commonly found,dirt, copper -- dirt or gravel or sand. And when you'rein that second category, I'm sorry, you just can't digthese -- these great big holes. MR. SANSONETTI: And that's -- that's what wehave here. We have got a gigantic hole. And you have to keep in mind the difference between the dirt and thetopsoil which goes to the farming element of all this andthe sand and gravel which may be a humble mineral comparedto gold or silver. Maybe the sand and gravel are the --the poor stepchildren to brother gold and -- and sistersilver, but they're just as valuable as a member of themineral family. Let me note that --QUESTION: May -- may I just interrupt to ask? I thought that you -- we weren't going to talk about dirtbecause dirt is part animal, part vegetable, so it's notmineral. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. MR. SANSONETTI: Right, but I brought that upbecause the question about topsoil. I wanted to make surethat I was distinguishing what is part of the surfaceversus sand and gravel which is not part of the --QUESTION: How about clay? Is -- is clay likedirt or is clay like sand?MR. SANSONETTI: Clay can -- clay is like sandin there.But the point is is that sand and gravel, as farback in the 's, much less at the point that I want tobring our -- the -- the Court's attention to, which is where the Pittman Act is passed --QUESTION: I guess granite --MR. SANSONETTI: -- sand and gravel -- I'm sorry.QUESTION: So granite -- I mean, I'm thinking ofgranite. On our -- we have some granite. Somebody cancome in and dig up all the granite? MR. SANSONETTI: Yes, because actually thisCourt in in the Soderberg case said gravel is amineral. Sand and gravel is a mineral.QUESTION: And the -- and the same way withdecorative rocks which are a big thing in northernCalifornia now? People are selling decorative rocks offtheir -- off their property. That's -- that's a mineral. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. It belongs to the Government under these patents.MR. SANSONETTI: Actually in that particularcase, you would look at quartz. If it was something thatthey were using as part of their surface -- they may havea greenhouse or whatever -- then obviously the Bureau ofLand Management is not interested in -- in taking theperson's cactus or whatever.QUESTION: The -- the holding -- the holding inSoderberg was that granite outcroppings were reserved. That -- it didn't talk about -- it didn't hold as togravel, did it? MR. SANSONETTI: No, not -- not as to gravel. Isaid granite. He asked about granite. Granite. Soderberg said granite is a mineral. Now, there was dicta in Soderberg, though, that quoted that -- favorably thatgravel was also a mineral. QUESTION: At what -- at what point did theDepartment of Interior take the position that you couldget a mining claim under the mining act for sand andgravel claims?MR. SANSONETTI: As of , as I understand it,Justice O'Connor.And -- and now to the part --QUESTION: You -- you think you can show thatpatented mining claims were allowed for sand and gravel on th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. public lands that early?MR. SANSONETTI: In -- in fact, with the passageof the Mining Act, that was the first opportunityunder that law for people go after sand and gravel. Itwas not until with the passage of the MineralMaterials Act that you could obtain sand and gravel eitherby locating it through the Mining Act or obtaining acontract for lease. That changed. That contract forsale. Excuse me.And that changed in with the passage of theCommon Varietals Act where the only way you could obtainsand and gravel today -- well, ever since -- is bysale contract. You go to the Bureau of Land Managementand you say you want , cubic yards of sand and gravel. You pay cents or something like that that youbid to take each cubic yard out, and once that is out, ofcourse, the cents goes to the United States Government,Treasury, and the remainder, of course, goes for the saleof the sand and gravel. But while it is valuable, obviously, in when the petitioners were so interested in coming into thefarmer's shoes -- this is a mining operator BedRocstepping into the shoes of a farmer, those that had goneahead and stayed on the surface of the land from to, now wanting to produce sand and gravel. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. QUESTION: Are you -- are you suggesting thatbecause the grantee in this case was -- was a commercialoperation, somehow the -- the value of the grant or theterms of the grant had changed?MR. SANSONETTI: Well, the -- the terms of thegrant did not change, but I think we have to keep in mindexactly what the purpose of the statute was. And here itwas Congress' intent to concurrently develop the surfaceof these lands and the mineral estates. The goal was toget new farmers to farm, new ranchers to ranch, whileleaving the mineral estate to those that would be able toexploit that mineral and were after the mineral becausethey wanted to be mineral operators, not because they cameon the land as farmers.This was the problem with all the fraud that wasgoing on under the old land classification system wherepeople would come onto the land saying this is non-mineral. I want it to be an agriculturalist, and then assoon as they'd get the patent to everything, including thesurface and -- and the minerals, they were selling out tothe coal companies.And that's what brought out the reservationof the coal, and then you have the act which says thepatentee gets everything but the coal. And then in and we have these two acts that say, nope, we're now th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. going, Congress says, to a split estate system where thesurface goes to the surface grantee, the patentee, and amineral operator must come to the United States to get anytype of mineral.QUESTION: Let me get something clear about the-- the Department of Interior's position. You said thatever since they had taken the position that sand andgravel was -- was mineral. But isn't it the case thatthey had taken that position only with respect to sand andgravel that was removable in -- in commercial quantities?MR. SANSONETTI: That is correct.QUESTION: Not all sand and gravel was minerals.MR. SANSONETTI: That -- that is correct. Andthat's where the test of Western Nuclear comes in. If youwant to know whether something is a mineral or not, youapply the test. QUESTION: Let's -- let's go back before Western-- I think Justice Scalia's question -- I don't think youranswer is consistent with what the Government did in theZimmerman case, the Department, which was questionedlater. But certainly at the time of Zimmerman, it -- itwas not a -- it was not regarded as a mineral, was it?MR. SANSONETTI: Well, Zimmerman in -- theZimmerman case was -- was the Department of the Interiorcase that counsel has been referring to, Zimmerman, which th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. was in , that said that sand and gravel did not equalmineral lands. So up until , the question was, yes,it was -- it was a mineral. And the things -- things tonote about this. First of all, Zimmerman was specifically part ofthe Western Nuclear case and is rejected at pages and of that opinion.The second thing is is that that opinion, issuedby the Department of the Interior, was never tested in thecourts. It is certainly --QUESTION: Well, wait a minute. Does that meanan opinion -- say, an agency opinion -- has no value ifit's never been tested in the courts?MR. SANSONETTI: No, but it does mean that there's a difference between the Department of theInterior's ability to inform the Congress at the time thatthis act passed in and their ability to bind theCongress. The solicitor's opinion is not binding on theCongress that that meant that sand and gravel fell outfrom the definition of valuable minerals in ,particularly since in sand and gravel was the fifthlargest value of minerals produced in the United Statesthat were nonmetallic.QUESTION: Yes, and where -- where was that sandand gravel value concentrated? It was concentrated on the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. east coast because of World War I, wasn't it?MR. SANSONETTI: No. Actually as -- as you cansee in the joint appendix, pages through , there area series of annual mineral reports that were utilized inboth of the -- the district court case and the appellatecourt case in -- in BedRoc, that spell out that by ,there was already a national association of sand andgravel producers, including associations of State sand andgravel producers, in different States. QUESTION: Where --MR. SANSONETTI: And -- and Nevada is included. QUESTION: And where -- and where else were the States? If you don't have it handy, don't --MR. SANSONETTI: Michigan, Texas, California, and I would note, I believe, it is at joint appendix -- Ibelieve the page is that shows that sand used for themaking of glass had already been discovered in Nevada asof . So -- and --QUESTION: Well, that just -- that just provesthat sand and gravel in certain places is valuable. That's conceded by the other side. Right? The issue wasthat -- is whether sand in the Gobi Desert is -- issomething that's worth anything. And the fact is that theInterior Department never took the position that all sandand gravel is -- is minerals under the Mineral Act until th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. when?MR. SANSONETTI: The -- the --QUESTION: When was the first time it came upwith the notion that whether it's commercially extractableor not at -- you know, at a profit, it is all mineralsunder -- under the mineral laws?MR. SANSONETTI: You could locate sand andgravel from up to .QUESTION: You could locate it if it wascommercially valuable, yes.MR. SANSONETTI: That is correct. QUESTION: That's not the question I asked. When is it that the Department first came up with theposition that all sand and gravel, no matter where it is, is covered by the mining laws?MR. SANSONETTI: I don't know the exact answerto your question, but I can say in regard to this --QUESTION: Is it after -- is it after ?MR. SANSONETTI: It's before because in the Department of the -- as of , the Congress hadstated that sand and gravel is a valuable mineral.QUESTION: Then how do you explain the solicitor letter -- opinion -- the DOI solicitor who saidthat -- that there's a reservation only if the gravel hada definite economic value because of the proximity of a th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. market at the date of the patent?MR. SANSONETTI: It was that -- okay, first ofall, the solicitor's opinion was also reviewed bythis Court in Western Nuclear. And the only portion ofthe solicitor's opinion that was approved by this Courtwas the finding that gravel was a mineral. The -- thisCourt in --QUESTION: Well, did this Court disapprove of aportion that Justice Ginsburg just referred to? I don'tremember.MR. SANSONETTI: It did not adopt it. In otherwords, it was considered, but not adopted.QUESTION: Did it say it was wrong? Did it saythat was wrong?MR. SANSONETTI: It did not, but then that'sbecause Western Nuclear didn't answer this precisequestion of site-specific. QUESTION: We're not talking for the momentabout what the Court adopted. We're talking about whatthe Interior Department adopted. What is there in theInterior Department that would have contradicted itssolicitor's opinion? MR. SANSONETTI: Well, for one, it's thepractice that has been followed since that time. Sincesite-specific is what's being mentioned in the solicitor's th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. opinion -- and frankly, it's an issue that related to anIndian reservation -- has absolutely no basis with theStock-Raising Homestead Act grants or the Pittman Actgrants. The statute at issue there related to an Indianreservation. It continued to grant United States controlover all the minerals on that reservation, considered thetrust responsibility. There were other elements beingconsidered there rather than whether or not sitespecificity should be what the BLM follows all across theboard. Note that we are here --QUESTION: There's -- there's another -- there'sanother piece from the Department of the Interior that Mr.McCrum emphasized in addition to the opinion letter,and it was a heading or a sentence in the Western Nuclear brief, in the SG's brief, stating that the reservationembraces only gravel deposits that are economicallyexploitable and would justify an entry under the Mining Act. So in Western Nuclear, according to Mr.McCrum, that issue wasn't before the Court and theGovernment said, indeed, the issue is it has to beeconomically exploitable at the time of the patent.MR. SANSONETTI: Your Honor, we're mixing up twothings. The Mining Act is an act that -- that tellsyou how to obtain a mineral. The reservation we'retalking about today is describing what is covered by the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. mineral. Once you've got the what, then you can decidethe how, whether it's the act which has these depositreferences and -- and the like, or whether something issaleable under contract. That -- those are the hows. Today we're talking about the what, what iscovered by the reservation. And the Pittman Act Housereport notes that the reservations in both the SRHA, theStock-Raising Homestead Act, and the Pittman Act areidentical.QUESTION: Well, but that -- that can't becorrect, can it, because one uses the term valuable andthe other doesn't? And the House report certainly doesn'tprevail over the statute.MR. SANSONETTI: It does not prevail over the statute except let me come back to the question about thetwo words being -- the two phrases being different becausesection of the bill -- again, Pittman was passed afterthe Stock-Raising Homestead Act, and the actual quote isthat section of the Pittman Act contains the samereservations of minerals which was passed by Congress inthe Stock-Raising Homestead Act. Now --QUESTION: Well, that's not a quote from thestatute. That's a quote from the report. MR. SANSONETTI: And now as to the quotes from th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. the statute.QUESTION: Will you -- will you answer myquestion? MR. SANSONETTI: The answer is yes.QUESTION: Okay.MR. SANSONETTI: Okay. Now as to the actualstatutes. In the Stock-Raising Homestead Act, it is allthe coal and other minerals. That's section . Insection of the Pittman Act, it is all the coal and othervaluable minerals.QUESTION: Right. So -- so can I -- can youdeal with this --MR. SANSONETTI: Yes.QUESTION: -- problem that's in the back of my mind? Okay? All right.You wanted to finish what you were saying.MR. SANSONETTI: If -- if I may, the position ofthe United States is that those two phrases, valuableminerals and minerals, are synonymous. The word valuabledefinitely has a meaning. That meaning was set out inWestern Nuclear as being used for commercial purposes. Soused for commercial purposes, the concept of value isdefinitely part of the Stock-Raising Homestead Act, andconsequently, it means the mineral must be valuable.In Pittman, you've got again the exact same th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. language of section and section with the addition ofthe word valuable. It appears eight times in both of --of those sections, and it is our -- our position then thatthey are interchangeable. Minerals sometimes, valuablemineral other times. So it's a distinction without adifference and valuable is definitely not a word ofsurplus.QUESTION: Okay. What's bothering me in theback of my mind, assuming all the opinion letters andeverything are sort of a wash, is that we don't ranch all-- as much as we used to and we don't farm as much as weused to. And therefore, what's really at stake is theability to transfer title.And once I begin to think in that way, I think that whoever might want to sell or buy some of this land,which now might be used for a city or a town or who knowswhat, might think to himself, well, I can deal with thereservation of, let's say, a specific precious mineralright like gold or even tungsten or even uranium. But ifthere's a possibility here that the Government can come inand start digging, because the mixture of organic onlygoes down about inches, and if everything below that inches potentially belongs to the Government, and theGovernment can come in and tear up even that inches tolook for rocks or look for sand or look for gravel or th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. granite or all that stuff, which is undoubtedly there, Ijust don't know what I'm getting into. And therefore, Iwould be pretty reluctant to buy this piece of land, or atleast not for much of a price.Now, it's that kind of uncertainty in landtransfer title that is coming on years after the eventthat's worrying me. So I would like you to reply and tellme what you think of that.MR. SANSONETTI: Let -- let me try it in -- inthis fashion because we're talking about expectations hereand what the patentee, the surface owner, is obtaining andhow it passes that on to successors. The United States was saying through theCongress through both of these acts that the mineral --through the mineral reservations that you, the patentee,can come onto the surface of this land, use it as youwill. We, the citizens of the United States, keepanything that may be found on or underneath that land thathas mineral value. The patentee gets to use the surfaceas his benefit of the bargain and should not expectanything else. If there are windfalls -- if there arewindfalls of valuable minerals that no one knew were underthese lands in Nevada, if any, they should belong to thecitizens of the United States and --QUESTION: Most of the States that have ruled on th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. this subject -- most of the State courts that have ruledon this subject, have come out the other way from WesternNuclear. Do they have a different perspective ordifferent concerns? MR. SANSONETTI: They -- they do -- they dobecause there's no congressional mandate in those -- inthose State court cases. Those State court casesinvariably have situations where the reservations may ormay not be applied by the Secretary of the Interior, inreference to the Hess case for instance. QUESTION: No, but the practical problems andthe -- and -- and the likely expectations andunderstanding of the purchasers would be the same.MR. SANSONETTI: They -- they would be the same except in our instance, they're much more clearly laid outbecause once that affidavit is signed under section ,then you have the person coming onto the landcontemplating cultivation. They are signing an affidavitsaying they want the free land, and it's free land. For acres of crops, they get up to acres of free land. And they get the appreciation of that land. Thisparticular plot happens to be just north of Las Vegas. Ifit appreciates --QUESTION: If they find -- if they find water. They have to come in -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. MR. SANSONETTI: They have to --QUESTION: -- and expend a certain amount ofmoney --MR. SANSONETTI: Yes, they did. QUESTION: -- considerable money sometimes, tofind water. And if they find it, then they have the rightto -- to farm. And, you know, I don't think that's a --such a terrific deal if they can be just dug out of their-- of their homestead by the Government. MR. SANSONETTI: But the fact is is at the pointwhere they did find water, they applied for the patent.They get their acres. In this case it was . Theyacknowledge that they are getting this free land forcrops. They grew the crops, the acres' worth of crops that had been grown that got them the opportunity to filetheir final certificate and obtain that patent.Now, remember, if this land appreciates, theyget the benefit of that bargain, the same way as if theUnited States happens to find that there is a valuablemineral underneath, they happen to benefit from it. Thiscould be a golf course or a WalMart or anything in a fewyears north of Las Vegas. QUESTION: If -- if the --MR. SANSONETTI: The United States is not askingfor that appreciation. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. QUESTION: If the property owner had exported --transported the water to Las Vegas for a municipal watersupply, would that be consistent with reclamation?MR. SANSONETTI: Any -- as I understand it, thatunder Nevada State law, the water actually that was foundby Farmer Butler in this case is -- is dealt with by theNevada State water engineer. So long as he uses it forbeneficial uses, the permission to take it off premises oron premises has nothing to do with this reservation. Ithas to do with Farmer Butler and Nevada State law.But I would like to note a couple quick thingsin regard to the bad consequences of a site-specific testbecause it does place the ownership of other minerals intodoubt. It's not just gold or silver that we're dealing with on one hand and sand and gravel or some ubiquitouscommon gravel over here. What happens? What's the testthen for things like trona or bentonite or limestone ordolomite or any other thing. You mentioned uranium. Uranium was used for watch dials way back in , but ofcourse, we now see it has a much more important purposetoday. QUESTION: The -- the test, as I understand it,would be whether it was commercially worthwhile to extractit and transport it to wherever you'd have to take it touse it. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. MR. SANSONETTI: Ah, and if it was, it would bea mineral reserved to the United States. But if the site-specific test is put into place, imagine then thepractical difficulties in trying to show that from theBureau of Land Management's point of view going back intime --QUESTION: No, no. I mean, the -- the Bureauhas always had a -- a doctrine of inherently valuableminerals, gold and silver. You don't have to show that itcan be extracted at a commercial profit. And benthamiteor kryptonite, which Superman uses --(Laughter.) QUESTION: -- whatever you want, all you have todo is say that that is an inherently valuable mineral. MR. SANSONETTI: Well, to the extent thatthere's any doubt on -- on the Court about whether or notgravel is a mineral reserved to the United States in thePittman Act reservation, we feel it should be resolved infavor of the Government due to the old canon ofconstruction that says that about the scope of land grantsare construed favorably to the Government. Thank you. QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. Sansonetti.Mr. McCrum, you have minutes remaining.REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF R. TIMOTHY McCRUM th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERSMR. McCRUM: Thank you. One point that I'd like to make as clear as Ipossibly could is that sand and gravel was not locatableunder the Mining Law from onward. It -- it -- theInterior Department was as clear as could be in publisheddecisions that common material like sand and gravel andclay were not subject to the Mining Law, not withinthe class of valuable minerals. The -- the firstpublished decision we see on this is in the 's and wesee a repeated line of cases from through . They're all cited in our opening brief. We reallyshouldn't have an issue about that.It was not until --QUESTION: Well, your opponent flatly disagreeswith you, doesn't he, on that?MR. McCRUM: I have great respect for myopponent, Mr. Sansonetti, but I -- I think that this pointthat I'm making is -- is as clear as could be in therecord. And the Zimmerman case is not an isolated case. It's merely a case in that is stating this veryexplicitly in the case of sand and gravel that this wasactually the general understanding and that the Departmentwas not even receiving applications for sand and gravel th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. mining claims because this was so well known. It was not until in the Layman v. Ellisdecision where the Department changed that rule, yearsafter the Pittman Act in this case. Then it wasdetermined on a site-specific basis. That's the site-specific base -- basis argument that we are puttingforward here, which then was adopted in the solicitor's opinion in the context of mineralreservations.There was some reference to the Soderberg caseof this Court in . That involved valuable granitebuilding stone of the type that we see here in theJefferson Memorial and around this city. Not -- it wasnot a surprising ruling when this Court upheld the position of the Interior Department patent that valuablegranite could be subject to the Mining Law within theclass of valuable minerals. By then, in , in the Pacific Coast Marblecase, the Interior Department had already ruled thatmarble was a valuable mineral, which is an eminently soundruling looking at the marble in this Court building, whichis quite different from common sand and gravel.CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: Thank you, Mr. McCrum.The case is submitted.(Whereupon, at : a.m., the case in the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. above-entitled matter was submitted.) th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. 