 IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XILLINOIS, Petitioner ::v. : No. -ROBERT S. LIDSTER :- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XWashington, D.C.Wednesday, November , The above-entitled matter came on for oralargument before the Supreme Court of the United States at: a.m.APPEARANCES:GARY FEINERMAN, ESQ., Solicitor General of Illinois,Chicago, Illinois; on behalf of the Petitioner. PATRICIA A. MILLETT, ESQ., Assistant Solicitor General,Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; as amicuscuriae, supporting the Petitioner.DONALD J. RAMSELL, ESQ., Wheaton, Illinois; on behalf ofthe Respondent. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. C O N T E N T SORAL ARGUMENT OF GARY FEINERMAN, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioner PATRICIA A. MILLETTAs amicus curiae, supporting the Petitioner DONALD J. RAMSELLOn behalf of the Respondent REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OFGARY FEINERMAN, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioner PAGE th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. P R O C E E D I N G S(: a.m.)CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: We'll hear argumentnow in No. - -, Illinois v. Robert S. Lidster.Mr. Feinerman.ORAL ARGUMENT OF GARY FEINERMANON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERMR. FEINERMAN: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice, andmay it please the Court:A Lombard informational checkpoint was designedto find witnesses to a specific known crime. Theprincipal question here is whether the checkpoint is perse invalid under the Fourth Amendment or whether it'sgoverned by the Brown balancing test. Now, the touchstoneof the Fourth Amendment is reasonableness, which generally is measured by balancing the Government interest advancedby a seizure against the intrusion on the individual andthis Court has held that road - roadway checkpoints,including those that serve a law enforcement purpose, aregoverned by the balancing factors set forth in Brown v.Texas.Now, in Edmond, an exception was carved for acertain category of law enforcement checkpoints, thosethat are designed to advance the general interest in crimecontrol. The Court held in Edmond that crime control th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. checkpoints are not subject to a balancing analysis, butrather are per se invalid. The Illinois Supreme Court inthis case held that informational checkpoints, includingthe Lombard checkpoint here, fall within that generalcrime control exception. That was an error. Per seinvalidity under the Fourth Amendment is very strongmedicine and ought to be reserved for exceptionalcircumstances, and those circumstances -QUESTION: Well, I suppose we'd have to decidehere not only whether it was per se invalid, but whetherit was reasonable under any other standard.MR. FEINERMAN: That's correct, Justice O'Connor.QUESTION: And let me ask you, is it often thatroadblocks are set up just to get information like this?MR. FEINERMAN: I - I would rely on the amicus briefs submitted by the Illinois Association of Chiefs ofPolice and the Major Cities Chiefs Association, and they -they have informed the Court that roadblocks are not usedfrequently, rather they are used judiciously in order tosolve certain -QUESTION: This was a little odd. It was a weeklater?MR. FEINERMAN: It was a week later, but therewas a very good reason why the checkpoint was set up atthat particular place and at that particular time. There th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. was a fatal hit-and-run accident at about midnight on aFriday night. There were no witnesses, at leastpedestrian witnesses, and the Lombard police reasonablyconcluded that, because people's driving habits, or atleast some people's driving habits might be regular, thatsome of the drivers that were there on the night inquestion would also be driving the same route at the sametime at the same place one week later, and we -QUESTION: The - the - you - you said that theyhad to be used judiciously and that's a good word, but our- do our precedents in this area generally say, well, wedefer to the good judgement of the police, they won't usethem too often. The Illinois Supreme Court said, oh, ifwe allow this, we're going to have roadblocks every other- every day, every other street and in part that's hyperbole, but on the other hand, it does caution us thatthere should be some limiting principle and I just don'tknow if our precedents would support us in adopting yourword, oh, if it's used judiciously.MR. FEINERMAN: Well, it's used judiciously for anumber of reasons. One are the resource limitations. These kinds of roadblocks are very resource-intensive. There's also the prudential limits that the policedepartments place upon themselves. They don't want toappear too intrusive to the public and this is a - a minor th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. inconvenience and the -QUESTION: What if that isn't enough? What ifthey - they're squandering their resources? You have adumb police chief who's - who's using most of hisresources in fruitless roadblocks. What do we do then?MR. FEINERMAN: Then the courts step in and applythe Brown reasonableness factors. QUESTION: Well, what - that's what I'm asking. What makes this reasonable that wouldn't make other onesreasonable? What would be unreasonable? A - a generalroadblock asking about general crime - you know, sir, haveyou seen any crime committed in the last months,something like that? Would that be -MR. FEINERMAN: That would be closer - that wouldbe closer to the situation that was presented in Edmond, although it wouldn't - it wouldn't present one of thehallmarks of what we believe is a general crime controlroadblock, which is that it's the goal of the police toincriminate the motorists as opposed to simply seekinformation.QUESTION: No, it wouldn't - it wouldn't comewithin that, but you think that that would - would beinvalid even though you would support these informationalroadblocks in some circumstances?MR. FEINERMAN: That - that question, of course, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. isn't presented here, but I - I -QUESTION: No kidding.MR. FEINERMAN: - I understand, but our - I - Isuppose we would say that such roadblocks should not bedeclared per se invalid under the Fourth Amendment, butrather they ought to be subject to the Brown balancingtest.QUESTION: You going to answer my question? Would that one be invalid or not?MR. FEINERMAN: It would depend upon thecircumstances. We could -QUESTION: I gave you the circumstances. It's ageneral roadblock. They stop everybody who comes alongsimply for the purpose of asking, sir or madam, have youseen a crime committed within the last months? MR. FEINERMAN: I think there - there would be -QUESTION: What other circumstances do you need? Whether it's raining or not?MR. FEINERMAN: No.QUESTION: Okay. Now, can you give me -MR. FEINERMAN: I can't -QUESTION: - a yes or no? Is that good or bad?MR. FEINERMAN: It's, in my most instances itwould be bad, but - th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. QUESTION: Okay.MR. FEINERMAN: - I - I don't know if we couldforeclose the possibility that there might be somecircumstances were such a roadblock would be reasonable. For example, let's assume that in - in some area of somecity that there's just rapid lawlessness because of ablackout or whatever and there are hundreds of crimescommitted and the police might want to canvass theneighborhood but nobody wants to be seen talking to apolice officer. So in that instance perhaps a roadblockwould be set up where the police would hand each motorista piece of paper saying, you don't have to talk to me nowbut here's a number, and if you know of anything that hadhappened that was unlawful, please feel free to give us acall, we'll maintain our confidentiality.QUESTION: Well, what - what about -QUESTION: Mr. -QUESTION: - a road - roadblock that you find inperhaps some smaller towns where the police just verybriefly stop you and ask you to contribute to the policeboys fund.MR. FEINERMAN: I'm - I'm not sure that would bea - a crime control roadblock.QUESTION: I don't think it is.(Laughter.) th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. MR. FEINERMAN: That - that perhaps would bevalid and now it would be a better practice, of course, ifthe police were to simply approach cars that were stoppedat a stoplight or a stop sign or a tollbooth. QUESTION: If you had that kind of a roadblockand one of the drivers just about ran into the policeman,do you think that the court - the courts would entertainthe argument that, well, the initial stop was invalid,therefore running into the policeman - it cannot begrounds for the arrest? I - it's just a clumsy way ofasking, I guess, whether - whether or not there is anykind of a causation break here, causation link problem.MR. FEINERMAN: Yeah, we - that - that argumentperhaps could been made below but it wasn't, and as thiscase comes to this Court, the assumption is that if - if the roadblock were invalid under the Fourth Amendment,then the subsequent arrest would be as well. Even thoughthe - the - Mr. Lidster almost running into the policeofficer did provide cause, that question's not presentedhere.QUESTION: Mr. Feinerman, may I go back to yourown hypothetical of a moment ago in which this crime hasbeen committed, people don't want to be seen talking tothe police, so the police might set up a roadblock underthose circumstances. What about the same situation in th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. which the police say - and I suppose it would bereasonable in your hypo that they need to talk to a lotmore people than simply the ones who were driving in cars- on your reasoning, could the police, in effect, cordonoff sidewalks so that any pedestrian coming down thesidewalk would have to pass through sort of a chute at theend and could not get through with stopping to talk to thepolice officer and answer questions in order to getthrough?MR. FEINERMAN: No, Justice Souter, becausepedestrians have greater Fourth Amendment rights thanmotorists.QUESTION: Well, they - they - they do in thesense that we - we recognize certain rights to stop themotorist because of the regulated nature and the highly dangerous nature of the - of the driving enterprise. Buthere we're talking about stops which bear absolutely norelation to the regulation of motor vehicles. The onlyreason for the stop in the case that you're defending, andthe only reason for the stop in my hypo is that there maybe an opportunity to gather evidence from a citizen whowon't come forward but would answer a question. So itseems to me that the difference between cars andpedestrians has nothing to do with the - the - the answerto my question. Am I wrong there? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. MR. FEINERMAN: I believe so, Your Honor, withrespect. It would be permissible with motorists. Itwouldn't be permissible with pedestrians because motoristsdo not have the same expectation of freedom of movementthat pedestrians do.QUESTION: No, but the - no, but thejustification for interfering with their freedom ofmovement is not the justification that's involved in thisstop. You're not looking for impaired motorists. You'renot checking licenses and registrations. You're simplystopping motorists because they might have seen a crime,and in the extension of your hypo I'm talking about thepedestrian who might have seen a crime or have someevidence of it. They're in exactly the same situation. If you can stop the cars, why can't you stop the pedestrians?MR. FEINERMAN: Again, I - I just have to rely onmy prior answer. It's because this Court has held that incertain - in certain situations, suspicionless roadwaystops are permissible, or at least subject - potentiallypermissible and subject to the Brown balancing test.QUESTION: Does one have a - in - is it - agreater sense of privacy walking down a main thoroughfarethan being in a car? I understand the distinction betweena home or an office, but you're out there on the street th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. and the police could make - could - the police could go toany particular pedestrian and say, could you tell me ifyou know anything about X crime that was committed in thisneighborhood and the police could do that?MR. FEINERMAN: That's correct. The police canwalk up to any pedestrian and ask questions and that's nota seizure under the Fourth Amendment.QUESTION: Can they make the pedestrian stop? Imean, I'm walking along, the police says, excuse me, sir,can I ask - I say, no, I'm too busy, and I keep walking.MR. FEINERMAN: No.QUESTION: Can they arrest me for keeping onwalking?MR. FEINERMAN: No. That's Brown v. Texas. Thepolice cannot do that, but -QUESTION: So why can they do it with a car? Isthat what happened here? Suppose this car were in firstgear as it cruised, you know, rolled up to the roadblockand the same thing happened, the policeman said, I want toask you, you know, sir, I'd like to ask you a question. I'm sorry, I'm too busy, just keeps rolling on through. Would - would he have been arrested in this roadblock?MR. FEINERMAN: If - if he's - if he rolled onthrough and - or - or if he stopped and said, I don't like- I don't want to - th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. QUESTION: He didn't stop at all. He keptrolling at a very slow speed and he just told thepoliceman, I'm sorry, I'm too busy.MR. FEINERMAN: The - the record doesn't reflectwhether any such instances happened and that would be aclose -QUESTION: He'd be arrested, let's - he'd bearrested pretty -MR. FEINERMAN: Perhaps he would be arrested fornot following -(Laughter.)MR. FEINERMAN: Perhaps he would be arrested fornot following the police officer's -QUESTION: Well, now -MR. FEINERMAN: - instruction, but really the -QUESTION: Do - do you think he could do the samething with a - with a pedestrian?MR. FEINERMAN: No, no. And that's Brown v.Texas. Pedestrians cannot be seized for this purpose andthat this -QUESTION: Well, now, in the Edmonds case, theCourt opinion said that under exigent circumstances therecould be some kind of a - an appropriately tailoredroadblock. Do you take the position that trying to find awitness was some kind of an exigent circumstance here? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. MR. FEINERMAN: No. Our position is not thatthere are exigent circumstances. Our position is thatthis is not a general crime control roadblock. A crime -QUESTION: When you make your balance underBrown, do you - does the time that it takes to answer theofficer's inquiry the relevant factor or the time you haveto wait in line if there's a big - it's a crowded street,you know, they - you cause a traffic jam, you have to wait minutes?MR. FEINERMAN: It's our position that it's onlythe time that - of the police-motorist encounter.QUESTION: So that even if in fact the delaycaused the - a bunch of people a half hour's delay, thatwould be irrelevant?MR. FEINERMAN: In - in our - we - we - if - werethat question presented, we would say that that'sirrelevant because that's simply endemic. That's just abyproduct of driving.QUESTION: It's a byproduct of the seizure of oneperson that you got to wait - wait in turn to be seizedyourself.MR. FEINERMAN: That's true, and - but what's -the reason why - the police don't want there to be a line. The police just want to talk to each motorist as they're th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. driving by.QUESTION: No, but if - if you're on a busystreet, as they were in - in - I forget which suburb ofChicago this was -QUESTION: Lombard.QUESTION: - in Lombard, you're gonna - you'regonna tie up traffic for a while.MR. FEINERMAN: Yeah, I should mention - I shouldmention that Mr. Lidster at his trial, at page of thetranscript, testified that there were only three cars infront of him. So he was stopped really for - at most onlya minute, which is permissible. But were there a case asin your hypothetical where a motorist were stopped for ahalf an hour, we would still say that that waiting timedoesn't count because that's really more a function of the number of vehicles on the street and it's not really - itwas not intended by the officer that there be this backup.QUESTION: I - I suppose part of thereasonableness inquiry has to be what alternatives wereavailable to achieve the same objective. And why couldn'tthe police just have had a big sign on the side of theroad, one of those, you know, illuminated signs that theyhave now, which said, you know, please help us, lookingfor hit-and-run -MR. FEINERMAN: It - th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. QUESTION: - last week, something like that. Andthen those people who are willing to cooperate could pullover and cooperate and those - those who want to havenothing to do with it can keep on moving.MR. FEINERMAN: That would be possible, but thisCourt has said very clearly that a less restrictive meanstest is not to be applied under the second Brown factor.QUESTION: I'm not applying the least - leastrestrictive means test, but surely one of the - one of thefactors in determining whether this was reasonable iswhether you could have done - achieved the same objectivein - in some other manner.MR. FEINERMAN: That's correct. That is a factorand - but these kinds of signs or billboards, it isn'tlike it just says, drink Budweiser or fly United Airlines, there's a lot of information on there, and if these carsare -QUESTION: It might distract drivers if - if abig sign on the road - on the highway when you're supposedto be looking at the road. That might be a reason, butthere's a - there's an aspect of this, you've repeated thepolice many times, and one of the worrisome things of thisset-up is all you need is a crime, and in majormetropolitan areas there are crimes, multiple crimes everyday. Who makes the decision? The local police chief. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. And then after some, you can get into court. It's - it'snot like the law dictates this or even the State'sAttorney General, but it's in every town, the local policechief that may have just a range of views about usingroadblocks. MR. FEINERMAN: That - that's what the Brownbalancing test is there for. It's there to determine whatkinds of stops are reasonable and which one aren't. Now,if there are some circumstances where we can imagine thatwe'd want to have this kind of informational checkpoint,then a - and that's really the principal question here. There ought not to be a per se rule, because there aresome situations, and we submit that this is one of them,where it makes perfect sense for the police to set up aroadblock because the physical evidence recovered from the scene was not sufficient to identify the perpetrator, andthe only witnesses to the crime were fellow motorists, andthere was really only one way our - there wasn't only oneway, but this was a very good way of getting at them. Andif there are circumstances where we can imagine that we'dwant to enable the police to solve crimes in this manner,then a per se rule is invalid. It ought to go throughBrown balancing.QUESTION: You - you mentioned that this is agood way to get at the people you want to get to. Is th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. there any indication that there - anything of value wasobtained in the investigation of this crime in thisparticular roadblock, or do you have any informationacross the - from - from broader statistics across thenation about the effectiveness of doing this?MR. FEINERMAN: I have no statistics from acrossthe nation and I'd have to go outside the record to answeryour question. The Lombard police asked the local news toactually cover the roadblock, which they did, and somebodywho was watching the local news realized that a gentlemanin her apartment complex had recently had damage to theright headlight of his F- and called -QUESTION: If - if the police had - if the policehad asked the local news to - to broadcast a -minute clipof a police officer saying, we're having trouble finding the perpetrator of this crime, please come forward,wouldn't that have gotten the same result?MR. FEINERMAN: Well, we have to -QUESTION: They wouldn't have done it, but I mean-MR. FEINERMAN: They may not have done that. If- if there are no further -QUESTION: - a roadblock is much more fun tocover.(Laughter.) th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. MR. FEINERMAN: Justice Scalia makes a goodpoint, and I'd like to reserve the remainder of my time.QUESTION: Very well, Mr. Feinerman.Ms. Millett, we'll hear from you.ORAL ARGUMENT OF PATRICIA A. MILLETTON BEHALF OF THE UNITED STATES AS AMICUS CURIAESUPPORTING THE PETITIONERMS. MILLETT: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court:The reason a news story covering a - a hit-and-run fatality, as in this case, is not as effective for anumber of reasons. First of all, statistically, themajority of Americans don't watch local news. Moreimportantly, there is significant value as - as has longbeen recognized when police deal with pedestrians and approach them, seeking their assistance in solving crimes,there is significant value to having a police officerapproach someone in a one-on-one manner in an effort tosolve a crime.First of all, the - the approach impresses onpeople, who are otherwise very busy, the importance of thematter before them and that this may be worth devotingtheir time. The police officer's one-on-one approach canadvise the person, in addition, that what you say might besignificant even though you didn't see an accident. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. QUESTION: But can you stop the person? I mean,put it in a pedestrian context, do you think a policeofficer can insist that the person stop, stand there, andlisten to his pitch?MS. MILLETT: No, absolutely not, Justice Scalia. There is a long - just there is a long historicdistinction between cars and homes, there's a longhistoric distinction between cars and pedestrians, and thereason - as a practical matter, you have to have a very,very brief seizure here to protect the life and limb ofthe police officer while he tries to make this approach. That's not needed when you're approaching pedestrians.QUESTION: Why - why does the distinction -you've mentioned it and - and Mr. Feinerman mentioned it -why does the distinction between cars and pedestrians apply in a case in which the - the justification formaking that distinction, regulation, a risk of impaireddriving, does not apply?MS. MILLETT: What - what is relevant is whatthis Court has long recognized is - is the difference inyour reasonable expectations of freedom of movementbetween people in cars and pedestrians on the sidewalk.QUESTION: No, but my expectation of freedom ofmovement in the car is that, yeah, the police can stop to- for a sobriety checkpoint and I'll assume they can - th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. they can stop to - to check my - my license and theregistration of the car, but I also assume that theycan't, you know, barring today, the result of today'scase, I - I'm assuming that they - they can't stop me for- for other reasons, barring some really exigentcircumstance. And if that expectation is reasonable, andI think it has been at least up until today, then I thinkmy expectation is - is the same as the pedestrian'sexpectation, barring the - the regulatory authority of -of exercising the regulatory authority, which is not in -in issue here.MS. MILLETT: Justice Souter, the essentialcommand of the Fourth Amendment is reasonableness, andthere's nothing in the Fourth Amendment that says stopsfor sobriety or stops to see if you have any aliens in your trunk are inherently reasonable and nothing else is. It's a balancing test, as this Court has long recognized,and an important part of that balance is the expectationsthat the individual brings to it, and the expectation ofthe individual behind the wheel is that there are a numberof times that I will come into contact with policeofficers and I will need to stop, I'm highly regulated,I'm highly restricted, and I am engaged in a privilege ofdriving on the public roadways. Walking is not aprivilege. Driving on the public roadways is and so the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. question -QUESTION: You're - you're saying that becausethey might have observed or - or observed evidence in theexercise of their privilege that that would be aregulatory basis for stopping them in the cars, whereasthere wouldn't be any such basis for the pedestrian?MS. MILLETT: The regulatory need for it is thatthere's - you have a very common police practice here, andone that we expect the police to do if a - a fatality hasbeen committed is try to find witnesses who were there atthe time. The only way that principle can work -QUESTION: And - and we understand that when -when there's something pretty contemporaneous between thestopping and the - and the accident. That's what I had inmind with exigency. But do we - is - is it such a common practice that a week later or two weeks later -MS. MILLETT: It is extremely common for thesetypes of informational checkpoints. There's two differenttypes of checkpoints. There is the one that's trying tocatch the person right after the crime's been committed.QUESTION: Yeah.MS. MILLETT: But the witness checkpoints arequite routinely done, either hours, or very routinely,a week after, because people are creatures of habit andthey tend to drive the same roads at the same time of - th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. the same days, and so it's very common - a number - anumber of Federal checkpoints have been done exactly likethis. They've been done a week after a child's beenabducted. In the Elizabeth Smart case, it was a weeklater. Federal checkpoints that I'm familiar with weredone exactly - exactly a week later, and you try to go atthe exact same time, because that is eminently sensiblefor police officers. If you want to look for thewitnesses, you want to find people who are most likely tohave been there at the same time.QUESTION: Have they been successful? Is yourknowledge of these things profound enough that you can sayhow successful they've been? MS. MILLETT: I - I can't give you -QUESTION: Do you know of any that have been successful?MS. MILLETT: Yes, absolutely. The - the ParkPolice did one - the Federal Park Police did one here inthe Washington, D.C. area a couple years ago that foundfour eyewitnesses to a hit-and-run fatality. But also,the ability to measure success here - we're not talkingabout immediately removing a drunk driver from the road oractually finding the alien - solving - you're successfulif you defined you solved the crime, and solving a crimeis not a linear project. It involves a lot of information th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. coming in from a different -QUESTION: But you couldn't - you couldn't dothis to try to get the perpetrator. That would clearly beEdmond, and there seems to be something odd about saying,police, you can't have a roadblock in a neighborhood whereyou think that it's likely the suspect is living, but youcan if you say what you're looking for, it's not thesuspect, but witnesses.MS. MILLETT: Justice Ginsburg, I - tworesponses. First of all there are - Edmond leaves openthat there are at least some circumstances when you can dothis - maybe to approach is exigency - but where you cando these types of checkpoints to catch someone. Thelanguage there was a fleeing dangerous criminal who wasgoing by particular routes, so it's not - that doesn't seem to be foreclosed in all circumstances. But thereason it makes a big differences for purposes of FourthAmendment principles, there's actually three reasons whylooking for witnesses is better and should be moreconsistent with the Fourth Amendment than what - the issuein Edmond. And that is, there - there's a differencebetween, just a practical difference, between policetaking action, seizing people first and looking for acrime to go with them, which is what was going on inEdmond, or having a specific crime and looking to solve it th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. in the most sensible and reasonable manner that policeofficers do, and that is looking for witnesses.QUESTION: Well, following Justice Ginsburg'squestion, which is the easier of the two cases? The onewe have here or a hypothetical case in which they have adescription of the hit-and-run driver and they stopeverybody to look in the car to see if the driver meetsthe description? Which is the easier of the two cases tosustain?MS. MILLETT: Assuming that this is not - it'snot right after the crime that I have the description -QUESTION: A week later, everything else thesame.MS. MILLETT: I think this Court's - I think bothof them are different from Edmond, but I do think this Court's doctrines establish why the witness approach is -is more - is less intrusive on Fourth Amendment interestsfor - for three reasons. One is that there is a self-incrimination component, self-protection component to theFourth Amendment and that has been very important in thedrug testing cases. It was central to the resolution ofthe Ferguson decision and mentioned in camera -QUESTION: I - I wonder if you'd answer JusticeKennedy's question. Which is the easier case?MS. MILLETT: I - I'm - th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. QUESTION: You don't know?MS. MILLETT: - oh, I'm sorry -QUESTION: Pardon me?MS. MILLETT: We would like to have them bothsustained, quite frankly, and we don't think they're -they're exactly covered by Edmond -QUESTION: Yes, yes, but which is more consistent- which is easier to say is consistent with the FourthAmendment?MS. MILLETT: There -QUESTION: I would just - I'm mixed up witheasier because I don't - which is - the two cases that hegave, in which do you think it's easier for you to winyour argument?MS. MILLETT: I - I think the witness one is easier for three reasons, and one is because the FourthAmendment has this self-protection principle, which is notimplicated when you're - you're looking for witnesses. The checkpoint does not -QUESTION: In other words, this case is easier?MS. MILLETT: Yes, yes, the witness checkpoint,the looking for information checkpoint.QUESTION: All right. I got mixed up -MS. MILLETT: I'm sorry if I'm not -QUESTION: This case is easier? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. MS. MILLETT: Yes. This case is easier, but -but there's - there's two other reasons besides the self-protection principle. One is, as a practical matter, oneof the balancing tests - factors - in Brown v. Texas isthe level of anxiety. When a police officer approachesyou and says - even if it's permissible - I want to knowif you're doing something wrong. Do you not have adriver's license? Are you drunk? That's - there's alittle more anxiety there when a police - than when apolice officer comes and says, I would like your help,someone was killed here.QUESTION: And what's the third reason?MS. MILLETT: And - and the third -QUESTION: The Fourth Amendment is an anxietything? My goodness.(Laughter.)QUESTION: That is a factor but -MS. MILLETT: It's all - it's all very - sorry.QUESTION: - that - that cuts against you in thiscase, though, doesn't it? This was at midnight.MS. MILLETT: No, no. Part of the Brown v. Texasbalancing factors is - is of - one of the things that'sbeen mentioned is the level of anxiety, and the reasonthat you don't have roving stops but you're allowed tohave checkpoints is when you see other people being th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. stopped around you, even if they want to know if you'redrunk -QUESTION: I have a pending question about the -the third reason. I - what's the third reason?MS. MILLETT: The third - thank you - the thirdreason is - is a - is a - there's a sort of a practicallimitation on the use of these checkpoints when police arenot allowed to use it to do their run-of-the-millbusiness. Their job is to find crimes and criminals. Edmond was a checkpoint to find crimes and criminals thatwe didn't know about, when instead all that's being donehere is this is an adjunct to a - adapting to the roadwaycontext the normal investigative processes of policeofficers. You - you don't have that abuse, and the sameway -QUESTION: So this is a built-in limitation onthe frequency of its use?MS. MILLETT: It is, and Justice Kennedy, youalso asked about doctrinal limitations in this Court'scases, and in Atwater v. City of Lago Vista the exact sameargument was made dealing with misdemeanor arrests. Andthis Court's decision there specifically relied upon thegood sense and political accountability of police, for thesame reason that we know police don't arrest for everycrime and infraction that - vehicle code infraction that th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. they find. A lot of police chiefs are arrested andcheckpoints are a great equalizer, especially these kind,because the location is dictated by where the crimeoccurred -QUESTION: Arrested or elected? What - did yousay arrested or elected? That a lot of police chiefs are-MS. MILLETT: Oh, I hope I said elected.(Laughter.)QUESTION: Okay. I thought you said arrested.MS. MILLETT: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice.QUESTION: Thank you, Ms. Millett.Mr. Ramsell, we'll hear from you.ORAL ARGUMENT OF DONALD J. RAMSELLON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTMR. RAMSELL: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court:The mass, suspicionless seizure of innocentcitizens for the purpose of investigating ordinarycriminal wrongdoing without exigent circumstances is aviolation of the Fourth Amendment, and Indianapolis v.Edmond is the controlling precedent.QUESTION: Well, that sounds a little colorful,but - but in my own mind I'm thinking that this is askingpeople to help with crime investigation and to spend th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. seconds listening to the request. Now, it's - I wasdelayed hours - not hours, but like minutes anyway,or minutes, this morning coming in, for the last coupleof days because they had some tree pruning equipment, allright? So maybe they could put that on the sidewalk andnot delay me, but I don't mind. I did actually mind, butI mean -(Laughter.)QUESTION: - but - you see, it's not - what theirargument is, and that's, at least for me, what I'd likeyou to address, is this is not much of a - of a demand onpeople to stop for seconds when they're trying to findout somebody who killed someone and - and we just want youto listen for seconds. Now, why - why is that such anunreasonable thing for the police to ask the public to do? Nobody has to take the flyer, they don't even have tohelp.MR. RAMSELL: Well, Justice Breyer, by definitionthis is a seizure.QUESTION: I - I don't care about the - I'masking you - I understand - I'm asking you why it'sunreasonable. That's the word in the Fourth Amendment andI tried to make it as - as reasonable-sounding as I could. Maybe somebody else could do better, but I want yourresponse to my effort to make this sound very reasonable. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. That's what I'm interested in, your response.MR. RAMSELL: It remains unreasonable for anumber of matters. It's the aggregate of thecircumstances then by which other innocent persons couldbe seized. It's the fact that the gravity of the publicconcern in this particular event is far less than thereasonableness - reasonableness factors that have beenused in Sitz. It's far less than the immigration factorthat was found in Martinez v. Fuerte.QUESTION: I don't really want to hear cases somuch. I want to hear in common sense why this isn't areasonable thing to do. I'm not saying you even have toconvince me to win your case, I'm just saying that for -I'd like to know why, in ordinary, common-sense English,this isn't the most reasonable thing in the world? Now,I'm - I'm now overstating it so you'll be sure to give mean answer.MR. RAMSELL: It's midnight. You're on a roadwhere you do not expect to be confronted by a policeofficer. You're waiting in line for several minutes asvarious other cars are evidently being interrogated, someare being transferred to secondary staging areas. Theanxiety builds and you arrive at the front of theroadblock to be questioned about where you were last week,personal indications, what have you seen? You feel th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. compelled to answer.QUESTION: I didn't think that was the evidence. I thought they were given a flyer saying if you - readthis and see if you observed anything that could help usfind the hit-and-run driver.MR. RAMSELL: Detective Vasil testified that theywere stopped, given a flyer, but also asked if they hadbeen in the area last week and if they had seen anythingunusual. That second phase was relativelyinterrogational, although field interrogational. Nevertheless, it is somewhat intrusive on what areconsidered some of our privacy -QUESTION: Well, suppose that there is aroadblock but the only purpose of the roadblock is thepolice are stopping people to see if they'll contribute to the police boys fund. The same thing - exactly the samething happens with that roadblock has happened with yourclient. He comes up, almost hits the policeman, smellsalcohol on his breath and so forth, he's charged withdrunken driving and is convicted. Does he have a FourthAmendment claim?MR. RAMSELL: Well, Mr. Chief Justice, it wouldbe a seizure, so the Fourth Amendment is implicated. However, applying the Edmond analysis, the programmaticpurpose of that seizure not being in the investigation or th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. detection of crime, I would submit it would not be aviolation of the Fourth Amendment.QUESTION: So they can hold him up for hours ifthey're collecting for the police boys fund but they can'thold him up for or seconds if they're trying tosolve a crime?QUESTION: That doesn't make any sense. Or holdhim up for no reason at all, just for a lark. Hey, let'shold up a bunch of people.(Laughter.)QUESTION: You - you say that passes the FourthAmendment test but if - but - but this very reasonableinvestigation does not. That can't be right.MR. RAMSELL: I - I would submit, Justice Scalia,that if you were to stop a person and seize them for no reason whatsoever that that would not survive a FourthAmendment analysis. Ten to seconds to deliver somefunds and put them in a can would certainly be reasonablefor that beneficent, non-crime control purpose. Two hourswould certainly exceed -QUESTION: Are you saying it would be okay tohave a roadblock to collect for the policemen's benevolentfund?MR. RAMSELL: Compulsive collection would bequestionable. That would seem to be a tax. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. (Laughter.)QUESTION: I think if we endorsed -MR. RAMSELL: But we do -QUESTION: - your view that they can stop for thechief just as a purpose, there's going to be massivechange in the way these organizations raise money.(Laughter.)MR. RAMSELL: It - it is often difficult to sayno when - when a fireman is seeking some funds. However,it is certainly not the detection or investigation ofcrime, and the analysis that would take place there wouldbe different, and certainly hours to put money in a canwould suggest that the scope and duration of that stop wasfar beyond what was reasonable.QUESTION: Maybe - maybe your response to Justice Breyer's question - I'm not sure that reasonableness forFourth Amendment purposes is the same as reasonableness ingeneral. Do you think it would be - in general, if you'renot talking about the Fourth Amendment - an unreasonablething for a policeman to knock on your door and say,excuse me, sir, we're investigating a crime, we reallyneed your help, do you mind if I - I come in and ask you acouple of questions just to help us solve this crime? Doyou think that's reasonable in - in - in a sense? I guessit is. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. MR. RAMSELL: It is considered a voluntaryencounter to the extent that if you choose to open thedoor and engage in that conversation the Fourth Amendmentisn't even implicated there.QUESTION: No, the person says, unreasonably saysno, and the policeman comes in anyway.MR. RAMSELL: That would be a violation of theFourth Amendment.QUESTION: Even though it isn't really thepoliceman that's being unreasonable in the general sense. It seems to me it's quite unreasonable for the homeownerto refuse to cooperate at all with the police in the - inthe solving of a - let's assume it's a major crime. Thatseems to me unreasonable, but even so, the policeman isnot allowed to come into the home.MR. RAMSELL: That's correct, Your Honor, andthere's the difference between the voluntary consensualencounter and what we have in this case was clearlyinvoluntary. They even had an officer -QUESTION: And so also here. It might be veryunreasonable for the person not to want to cooperate, andit might be quite reasonable for the policeman to seek thecooperation, but that doesn't necessarily answer theFourth Amendment question.MR. RAMSELL: I would suggest that the fact that th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. an innocent motorist would feel that he or she wasunreasonable by not cooperating suggests the compulsiveaspects of this scenario, make it more of a violation ofthe Fourth Amendment, and more unreasonable to thatextent. One -QUESTION: Mr. Ramsell, did I understand yourargument to be that if the crime had been a childabduction, that this kind of roadblock to try to getevidence would be permissible?MR. RAMSELL: In - in a general sense, yes. Ofcourse, there would be other factors involved, but childabductions generally fall within the exigent circumstanceanalysis. Clearly there would likely have to be furtherevaluation of the facts behind why they felt that -QUESTION: Well, why if - if it's the danger involved and wanting to save a life that we hope is stillin being, why isn't the same thing if you're trying to getevidence about a hit-and-run person who kills people onthe highway?MR. RAMSELL: Well, first off, the childabduction is a continuing crime, to the extent that theneed for action in order to prevent the passable future orimmediate harm to that child, makes that an exigentcircumstance by itself.QUESTION: So you think this would be different th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. if this was a serial hit-and-run killer, right? He doesone a week. Then - then you think it'd be a differentsituation and maybe they could conduct the - theroadblock.MR. RAMSELL: Well, as we had in Sitz with theimminent hazard of drunk drivers, if there were such athing as a serial hit-and-run driver, the imminency, theexigency would be suggested within that hypothetical, andso I believe that it would be more reasonable under thatcircumstance, but what we -QUESTION: And what about a rape murder that -you know that that's not just a hypothetical case?MR. RAMSELL: That had recently occurred?QUESTION: A rape murder recently occurred andthe police set up a roadblock to get evidence. MR. RAMSELL: Again, if there was - if it wasvery fresh, and the more fresh it is the more reasonableit tends to become under a simply an exigency analysis,the fresher the crime the more believability -QUESTION: So would this - would this case havebeen different if it had been the next day rather than aweek later?MR. RAMSELL: If they had some independentevidence to suggest that the person was still in the area,that may have been a different set of facts. Commonwealth th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. v. Burns was an example of a informational roadblock wherethey had independent evidence to believe that the murdererwas still in the area. I believe that was days later.QUESTION: So if you need a little - if you havea little evidence, then you can seek more. But if you hadnone, you can't try to get a lead by this technique?MR. RAMSELL: Justice Ginsburg, I believe theexigency of the circumstances would certainly authorizemore - a possible information roadblock under thosecircumstances.QUESTION: Did this - is it the case that in thisvery situation we're talking about it led to informationabout the person responsible?MR. RAMSELL: Justice O'Connor, my understandingis that the roadblock itself was entirely ineffective. Ithad zero effectiveness in seeking to obtain informationregarding this event. In fact, I believe that we've justheard that it was the television which led to someinformation, which is a standard police practice, does notimplicate the Fourth Amendment, does not require anyseizure of innocent persons -QUESTION: Yeah, but it requires a roadblock.MR. RAMSELL: I believe that in the televisioncontext there's no roadblock at issue and no one's evencompelled to watch the television - th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. QUESTION: Well, but maybe television won't coverjust a blurb put out by the police where they will cover aroadblock.MR. RAMSELL: That may or may not be true, YourHonor, but there are -QUESTION: Nothing duller than watching a wall of- of wanted posters, you know, and now, for our listeners,we're going to pan the wanted posters at the post office.I mean -MR. RAMSELL: That would -QUESTION: - that is not going to sell. Who'sgoing to sponsor that?MR. RAMSELL: That would certainly be very boringto - to watch wanted posters, certainly if they wererepetitious -QUESTION: But if - if they hired someone likeJustice Scalia to go on the screen and describe it -(Laughter.)QUESTION: - big audience.QUESTION: Can I ask you a question about thefacts of this case, please? The blue brief describes itas a - a roadblock - roadblock set up in the evening, andas I understand it the crime was at : a.m., which Iinterpret to be midnight. It was a midnight crime and Ithought the roadblock was at midnight, and I wonder, how th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. long did it last? Was it started in the evening andlasted several hours or was it just -MR. RAMSELL: To be frank, searching the recordit's - it's relatively unclear. My understanding is minutes to hours at most.QUESTION: And it - it was though in the dark at- at night, not during the day?MR. RAMSELL: Yes, it was at night.QUESTION: And I also don't understand if theyhanded something to read, how could you read in the - atthe - in the dark?MR. RAMSELL: That would also be equally asdifficult, Your Honor. I -QUESTION: Does the record explain that they didhand something legible to the person or use a flashlight or what - what was the -MR. RAMSELL: Logic would seem to dictate that bythe time the person received the flyer and drove away theywould again be away from the scene of the event beforethey even read the flyer, which also makes it somewhatineffective in that regard.QUESTION: But did they - were there somethingthey were asked to read before they left or just left withthem to drive away with? I just don't understand whathappened, to tell you the truth. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. MR. RAMSELL: Well, to - to take - to take the to seconds Detective Vasil describes as the duration ofhanding the flyer, asking two questions, and obtaining twoanswers, it would seem that reading the flyer would havehad to have occurred sometime after the seizure.QUESTION: I see.QUESTION: There wasn't very much on the flyer,was there?MR. RAMSELL: Well, it did have some - it - itindicated the -QUESTION: We - we have it someplace, don't we?MR. RAMSELL: Yes. It is in the joint appendixand it's located on page of the joint appendix, andthere is - there is a great amount of detail that's inthat flyer, certainly would suggest it would be difficult for one to read the entirety of it, understand the purposefor which they were even being stopped that evening, whichis another point. There was no advance signs, unlikesobriety checkpoints, where as you're arriving, and evenbefore you have contact with - with the police officers,there's a sign that says, warning, sobriety checkpointahead. At least you're putting - you're put on noticewhat it is that's taking place in front of you. Here,people are waiting in line having no idea what it is -QUESTION: Well, but that - that happens in a lot th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. of other contexts too. You can be driving on a highway,all of a sudden everything comes to a stop. What's thematter? Is it an accident? Are they having one-lanerepair? And you just don't know, I mean, that's part ofthe condition of driving.MR. RAMSELL: Well, certainly we have to expectthat we'll be stopped more often than anyone would wish inthat context, but it - it's quite different when you are -when there's six to twelve emergency vehicles there andas you get closer and closer you see this encounter takingplace before you with every single motorist in front ofyou. That raises the anxiety of even the - the mostinnocent citizen, I would suggest.QUESTION: Might I ask another question about the- the facts of the case? Reading the flyer, it's something you could have handed to a pedestrian too whomight have been at the scene. Does the record showwhether they did hand this flyer to pedestrians who mighthave been walking by at the same time the week after theaccident?MR. RAMSELL: Well, my understanding of thislocation, being familiar with the area, is that it's amajor thoroughfare with -QUESTION: Right. I know -MR. RAMSELL: - multiple lanes. It would be th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. highly unlikely at midnight that any pedestrian would orshould be walking on the shoulder of this high speed limit-QUESTION: Oh, there are no sidewalks there?MR. RAMSELL: No. There are rarely sidewalks inour town, unfortunately.QUESTION: Oh, okay.QUESTION: Mr. Ramsell, there's something I'dlike you to comment on. The - the Illinois Supreme Courtwas - was concerned about the - the effect of - of thispractice, in effect, in opening the door to stops all thetime. They said, you know, there are loads of crimes andif it's justified here it will be justified in other casesand so on, and there have been some questions from thebench to that effect.One answer to that might be that under the lawas it stands now the police can conduct sobrietycheckpoints and we will assume that they can make licenseand registration checks and things like that. So the -the police already have an opportunity, to put it bluntly,to abuse their right to stop if they want to do it. Isthere any indication that there is this kind of abusegoing on, and hence, is there any reason to believe thatthe abuse would be greater if this practice passed musterthan it is under the existing law? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. MR. RAMSELL: Well, I believe that lawenforcement is always appreciative of any techniques ortools that they're allowed to use for investigatorypurposes.QUESTION: But what - what do we know? Empirically, what we do know? What is - has there - hasthere been an indication of abuse? Is there a reason tobelieve that this invitation, this tool, would be abusedmore than the tools that they now have?MR. RAMSELL: I would believe that it would bemore - more likely for abuse if this Court were to suggestthat these type of roadblocks were a valid investigativetool.QUESTION: But why - why?MR. RAMSELL: Because it would simply, number one, it is - it makes for great publicity for lawenforcement to use these roadblocks. They feel that it'sa -QUESTION: Well, it makes for great publicity to- to have sobriety checkpoints. That's one reason whythey have them.MR. RAMSELL: And - I agree, even thoughstatistically roadblock sobriety checkpoints tend to befar less effective than saturation patrols. Most policechiefs comment that they don't get the type of publicity th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. they receive from a roadblock that they get fromsaturation patrols.QUESTION: Is it true that -QUESTION: Supposethey had done the same thing they did here, the samething, except that, in addition to giving them a flyer andasking them about what happened - were - you know, wereyou here a week before, they - it was also a check ofdriver registration?MR. RAMSELL: I would suggest the programmaticpurpose, the primary programmatic purpose employed inEdmond would still remain that this was for the purpose ofcrime detection and investigation, not for simply checkinglicenses. The same -QUESTION: Well, they were actually checkinglicenses. I mean, they're - they're really doing it. MR. RAMSELL: And I -QUESTION: And they - they pick up some peoplewho don't - don't have licenses, but while they're at itthey kill two birds with one stone. And you say it wouldmake it bad because its primary purpose was the other?MR. RAMSELL: Justice Scalia, I would suggest theprogrammatic purpose, which would be a question of intent,would still remain that it was truly for the investigationof this particular crime and certainly the duration andthe scope of the seizure would exceed the license check th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. when questions were being asked about whether you had beenhere last week, whether you had seen anything regarding ahit-and-run or any other crime. And that would seem toexceed even the suggested appropriateness of a roadblockfor license checks in Prouse.QUESTION: That - that incremental point of time- you're really playing with a - an inconsequential -inconsequential impingement upon the person's time.QUESTION: Mr. Ramsell, do you know - going backto Justice Souter's question - whether in the aftermath ofSitz there have been an increase in sobriety checkpointsin this country?MR. RAMSELL: I know that a - a far greaternumber have been reported since Sitz, but I cannot confessto knowing what the statistics or the record-keeping was prior to Sitz, but it has - it has now crept into theAmerican psyche that roadblocks are a - a regular way oflife.QUESTION: But do - do they exist in Michigananymore, these sobriety checkpoints?MR. RAMSELL: No. When the - when the case wasremanded to Michigan, Michigan found under their own Stateconstitution that this - that a sobriety checkpoint stillremained to be an unreasonable violation of the search andseizure clause of their own constitution, so they do not th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. have them.Now, in this case, what we have is we have a - avery stale event. In fact, the facts do not even suggestthat the driver was perhaps even negligent in how theaccident occurred. We have a - a bicyclist on a majorthoroughfare at midnight in a place where it's highlyunusual to - to find pedestrians in a dark area, andthere's been no indication that the driver was at faultother than failing to remain at the scene of the accident.QUESTION: That's pretty serious, isn't it,called hit-and-run?MR. RAMSELL: It's hit-and-run as -QUESTION: All right, so all that's at stake isthat it was a hit-and-run and the guy's dead, all right. So - so now what has that to do with the reasonableness of this? I'm not - not asking you facetiously because Ithink maybe you think you want to tie it in and I justwant you to do it.MR. RAMSELL: Well, the consequences are veryserious. However, hit-and-run would also fall withindinging the car in the grocery parking lot next to you andfailing to remain at the scene. These are single events -QUESTION: So you mean that it might bereasonable to do it for some serious crimes but not for th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. less serious?MR. RAMSELL: I would suggest that it cannot bedone for any crime except in exigent circumstances, whichwe do not have here. This is a stale event -QUESTION: So even - even if it were, say, acarjacking, where there was a fatality, if it's stale itcan't be done?MR. RAMSELL: Yes, Your Honor. I would - I wouldrespectfully say that, under the analysis in Edmonds,there is a lack of exigency. Edmonds suggests that, butfor the emergency circumstances of an - an imminentterrorist attack, otherwise that would be considered aviolation of the Fourth Amendment. This is a singleaccident. It - it does not fall within the magnitude ofany of the previous issues that have been brought before the Court -QUESTION: Now you seem - seem to be arguing thesame thing that, other things being equal, if you lose onyour other points you could only do it in a serious butnot non-serious. Is that what you're - is that the pointyou're making? And if so, I want to know what the lineis.MR. RAMSELL: Well, the line is exigency, andexigency meaning there was no - there's an immediatehazard on the roadway, which was what seemed to justify th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. sobriety checkpoints in Sitz, that there would have beenan effectiveness to removing then-hazardous drivers andpreventing the potential for future injury to life andlimb. This is a post-event, non-exigent roadblock. Thefacts, nevertheless, don't have the gravity of the publicconcern. In the Brown v. Texas -QUESTION: Well, what if - what if you've got a -a license number and for - for a serious crime that wascommitted, say, an hour ago? Can - can you then conduct a- this sort of program?MR. RAMSELL: I would submit yes, that you couldunder that circumstance. Number one, you could tailor theroadblock substantially less. You have the exigencybecause it is a fresh pursuit analysis. You certainlywouldn't need to pull over every car and question them if you had a license plate number to work from. And so it -it would certainly even be capable of being moresufficiently tailored so that those who are admittedlyinnocent are less likely to have their libertiesinterfered with.QUESTION: Of course -QUESTION: Well, what if you - what if you justhad the information that it's - it's a black Ford SUV?MR. RAMSELL: And it happened one hour ago?QUESTION: Yeah. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. MR. RAMSELL: I believe under that set ofcircumstances the exigency would suggest there would be apotential for a reasonable checkpoint tailored in scopeand duration with sufficient guidelines in place. Infact, in this particular checkpoint, we have virtually noguidelines in place. We have a field officer whotestifies that what he did was to ask some questions. There's no indication as to why other persons were sent tosecondary staging areas. We do not have any guidelines sothat if a motorist had said, yes, I was here last week,and yes, I think I have some information, we have noguidelines for those field officers as to what to do andhow to treat that motorist and how to detain that person.QUESTION: You know anybody's that's challengedthese things who - for any reason other than the exclusionary rule? This case wouldn't be here except forthe fact that your client during the stop was found to bedriving under the influence. Had that not happened, don'tyou think there's zero chance that anyone would have caredenough, would have felt beset upon enough by the police tobring some action to stop this Gestapo-like activity?MR. RAMSELL: I do believe there are -QUESTION: I mean, it's - it's really just theexclusionary rule driving - driving this case.MR. RAMSELL: Respectfully, Your Honor, I do - th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. there - I do believe there are people who care and thereare people who care about our right to be let alone, ourright of free passage.QUESTION: Well, if people in Lombard care aboutit, they can tell the police to stop doing it.MR. RAMSELL: I certainly would hope that theywould also exercise their right to let them know that theydislike these roadblocks as much as perhaps others in moreintellectual pursuits, but -QUESTION: Are there indications nationwide thatthe public makes objection to roadblocks, other than theperson that's caught for drunk driving?MR. RAMSELL: I would suggest that most - mostpersons are not pleased by roadblocks. I believe thatmost people feel that they do reflect on an invasion of their privacy and liberty.QUESTION: I mean, is there evidence of that?MR. RAMSELL: I - I cannot cite any pollingthat's been taken one way or the other that would reallyflesh that out. Here we have far less than the druginterdiction that was rejected in Edmond. We have asingle accident. We have far less than the concern aboutprotecting our national borders, as we had in Martinez v.Fuerte, and certainly not the imminency of the hazard thatwas found in Sitz. There's frankly no empirical or actual th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. data to even support that this roadblock will advance theinterest, and by the fact that nothing was advanced inthis particular event suggests that even in a balancingtest we don't have the sufficiency, the gravity of thepublic concern, nor do we have any indication of anydegree to which this seizure would advance the publicinterest. This is more akin to Prouse, where the Courtfound that the - the likelihood of finding an unlicencedmotorist versus the likely numbers of persons that will bestopped was so substantial that data was insufficient.QUESTION: Well, Prouse was random stops, though,wasn't it?MR. RAMSELL: It was random stops. However, theeffectiveness was mentioned as - as one of the factors,and there were certainly reasonable alternatives that were suggested that could have avoided the random stopscenario. And here we have admittedly innocent drivers aswell with no escape route, so a person couldn't even avoidthe - the compulsory stop and questioning. I would also submit that this analysis, if - iffound appropriate here, would equally allow for the stopof pedestrians at - on the sidewalk. It would allow thepolice to circle an office building and have the personsrun through the - with the gamut of brief questioningbefore they were allowed to leave an office building. And th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. it would be very unmanageable and unworkable to find anappropriate balancing test, even though I would submitthat one thing the Court needs to do is to, of course, letlaw enforcement know in advance what will be acceptableconduct on their part and that it would be inappropriateto allow for a case-by-case, fact-sensitive analysis basedon the plethora of crimes that could potentially lead toit, the geographic area in a small rural town. The ruralpolice chief may find roadblocks or - may find their mostserious crime to be the stealing of a purse and thereforea roadblock of some form justifiable there, where thatsame roadblock in an urban setting would be found to beunreasonable and unjustifiable, and certainly thosepolitically accountable officials that feel that theircitizenry are more favorable to roadblocks may be encouraged to allow them to occur more often. Thank you.QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. Ramsell.Mr. Feinerman, you have minutes remaining.REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF GARY FEINERMANON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERMR. FEINERMAN: This Court in Edmond found thatnarcotics check - narcotics checkpoints are so obnoxiousto core Fourth Amendment values that a per se rule ofinvalidity was justified and the principal question hereis whether informational checkpoints present the same th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. Fourth Amendment dangers that general crime controlcheckpoints present, and the answer to that is no.And in order to answer that, we - we have tofigure out what the hallmarks are of a crime controlcheckpoint, and we suggest that there are at least two. The first is that it's the purpose of the checkpoint toincriminate the motorist as opposed to the situation inLombard, which was simply the police asking for help, andthat distinction makes a difference under the FourthAmendment for several reasons. The first has to do withprivacy. At a general crime control checkpoint, thepolice are trying to learn something about you, whetheryou've committed a wrongdoing, whereas at an informationalcheckpoint there's just asking for help, somebody diedhere last week, could you help us find the perpetrator. There's also a difference in terms of jeopardy. At a general crime control checkpoint you may beinterrogated, detained, arrested, prosecuted, and possiblyjailed, whereas at an informational checkpoint, again,you're just being asked for help, and that's a criticaldistinction that this Court drew in Ferguson between thedrug test that was invalidated in Ferguson and the drugtesting programs that were upheld in Skinner, Acton, andVon Raab. There's also an indignity element to a general th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. crime control checkpoint. You're being - it's - it's abit of an indignity to be suspected as being a potentiallaw-breaker, whereas in - in an informational checkpointthere's really no impingement on dignity, you're just,again, being treated as an ally of the police and beingasked for help, and in fact, it's an act of responsiblecitizenship to provide help in that kind of situation. The second distinction is that a general crimecontrol checkpoint - the police are simply trolling forhitherto undiscovered crimes, whereas in an informationalcheckpoint, they're investigating a known, specific crime,and that's who makes a difference. There's a differencebetween - as Ms. Millett pointed out - there's adifference between knowing a crime and finding thecriminal and then simply rounding up a bunch of potential criminals and trying to peg a crime on them. And that'simportant not only for the fact that we're uncomfortablewith general - general surveillance, but also it's atraditional police function. When a crime happens, policeought to return to the scene of the crime and findwitnesses. Thank you.CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: Thank you, Mr.Feinerman. The case is submitted.(Whereupon, at :a.m., the case in the above-entitled matter wassubmitted.) th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. 