 IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XDASTAR CORPORATION, Petitioner ::v. : No. -TWENTIETH CENTURY FOX FILM CORPORATION, ET AL. ::- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XWashington, D.C.Wednesday, April , The above-entitled matter came on for oralargument before the Supreme Court of the United States at: a.m.APPEARANCES:DAVID A. GERBER, ESQ., Oxnard, California; on behalf of the Petitioner.GREGORY G. GARRE, ESQ., Assistant to the SolicitorGeneral, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; onbehalf of the United States, as amicus curiae,supporting the Petitioner.DALE M. CENDALI, ESQ., New York, New York; on behalf ofthe Respondents. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC C O N T E N T SORAL ARGUMENT OF DAVID A. GERBER, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioner GREGORY G. GARRE, ESQ.On behalf of the United States,as amicus curiae, supporting the Petitioner DALE M. CENDALI, ESQ.On behalf of the Respondents REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OFDAVID A. GERBER, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioner PAGE th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC P R O C E E D I N G S(: a.m.)CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: We'll hear argumentnow in Number -, Dastar Corporation versus TwentiethCentury Fox Film Corporation.Mr. Gerber.ORAL ARGUMENT OF DAVID A. GERBERON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERMR. GERBER: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice, andmay it please the Court:Dastar discovered that an old TV show made byTime Inc. was in the public domain because Fox neglectedto renew the copyright. Dastar adapted the public domainshow at considerable expense to make it into a warnarrative as opposed to Eisenhower's story. Dastar'sproduct did not refer to Time Inc. Dastar's product alsodid not refer to respondents who had their own competitivevideo of the same TV show.QUESTION: Of the same what?MR. GERBER: TV show.Because of the latter, that is, the omission ofcredits to respondents, and the finding that Dastar actedwillfully in omitting those credits, the lower courtawarded $. million, substantially in excess of the$, total gross of Dastar, in order to deter it. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC The lower courts departed from the Lanham Act ina very expansionary way in our view in six separatedimensions.QUESTION: Can we go back to your statement? AsI -- as I understood it, it wasn't the omission of Fox,but the addition of your people. In other words, itwasn't the failure to give credit to respondents, but itwas petitioner's taking credit for it that was what thelower courts thought was wrong.MR. GERBER: Taking the lower courts inascending order, on page a of the cert petition, thelanguage is that the court finds that defendant's failureto identify the television series and the book ismisleading to the public. And then at the Ninth Circuitlevel, on page a of the petition, the language is that Dastar copied, et cetera, and marketed it withoutattribution to Fox.Neither court, Justice Ginsburg, examinedDastar's credits, affirmative credits, for accuracy, forwhether they registered with the consumers, formisleadingness or falsity in any way. I would suggestthat the record indeed is that it was the omission ofcredits for their competitors that was, in fact, the basisfor the double award.QUESTION: This is a failure -- this is a th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC failure to attribute case then?MR. GERBER: Yes, it is, Your Honor.Our first and most sweeping point --QUESTION: But may I just point out on a, it --the quote -- you left out the first clause I think. They -- they labeled the -- the resulting product with adifferent name and marketed it without attribution.MR. GERBER: Oh, yes. That's a reference tochanging the title of the work. The entire phrase -- andpardon my truncation of it -- on page a is that Dastarcopied substantially the entire Crusade in Europe seriescreated by Twentieth Century Fox, labeled the resultingproduct with a different name, and marketed it withoutattribution. The name Dastar put on it, instead ofCrusade in Europe, was World War II Campaigns in Europe. And you will, I believe, see that in neitheropinion does either court take a look at the credits onDastar's product and conclude that they were in any waymisleading, nor does the court examine them at all.Our first --QUESTION: Counsel, would -- would the newDastar video qualify as a derivative work that woulddeserve copyright protection on its own?MR. GERBER: Yes, yes. The --QUESTION: And is that issue being litigated? th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC MR. GERBER: No, it isn't.QUESTION: No. Thank you.MR. GERBER: Our -- our most sweeping statutorypoint is, while not necessary for this opinioncertainly -- this case, certainly would dispose of it,that the current version of the governing statute, LanhamAct (a)()(A), does not recognize reverse passing off atall. The judicial interpretations of the Lanham Act,under which this claim was born, were under a priorversion that was substantially amended in , and whileno court has construed the ' language, we think that thenatural and plain meaning of it is that it encompassesonly forward passing off.QUESTION: Only what kind of passing?MR. GERBER: Forward passing off.QUESTION: What is forward passing off? Itsounds like a football game.MR. GERBER: It's not football, Your Honor.(Laughter.)MR. GERBER: It is the standard type oftrademark or trade dress infringement in which thewrongdoer -- let's call it Brand X -- utilizes the markRolex -- of usually a well-recognized company and putsthat mark on its product.QUESTION: Is it some kind of affirmative th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC misrepresentation?MR. GERBER: In forward passing off?QUESTION: Mm-hmm.MR. GERBER: I -- I --QUESTION: To -- to get some kind of liabilityunder the Lanham Act under a reverse passing off theory.MR. GERBER: If I may first distinguish reversepassing off and then come back to Your Honor's question.QUESTION: Yes.MR. GERBER: Reverse passing off, in contrast,is where Brand X for some reason -- the commercialmotivation is often hard to discern -- gets a legitimateRolex, removes the Rolex name and puts the Brand X name onit. Instead of passing its goods off as Rolex, it'spassing Rolex's goods off as its own.I'm sorry, Justice O'Connor, I --QUESTION: Well, it's -- it's related to this. This is a so-called reverse passing off theory that theNinth Circuit is relying on. Right?MR. GERBER: Yes.QUESTION: And do you say there is no such thingat all or do you acknowledge that there could be someLanham Act violation if there were some kind ofaffirmative misrepresentation?MR. GERBER: Both. Our -- our most ambitious th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC argument is none at all, and we do have as a lessambitious argument the second.QUESTION: Indeed, the Solicitor General wouldurge that we -- we not take the broader view. Right?MR. GERBER: I don't believe so, from theSolicitor General's brief. And let me --QUESTION: Okay. Well, we'll find out in aminute.(Laughter.)MR. GERBER: Yes. I -- our view, which Ibelieve is shared by the Solicitor General, is that underthe particular statute in issue in this case, subsection(a)()(A), reverse passing off is a no.QUESTION: Where -- where is that? Let's --let's look at the statute and talk about it. MR. GERBER: It's on -- it's on page of thecert petition.QUESTION: Okay.MR. GERBER: And if I may present our mostsweeping argument, the language in particular in (a)()(A)requires a designation as to the origin, sponsorship, orapproval of Dastar's goods by another person. So thatwould naturally cover the situation in which Dastar'sgoods had the name of another person such as Fox on them,but it would not cover the situation in which Dastar's th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC goods had its own name on them because of the by anotherperson language. When Fox's name is on Dastar's goods --and that is the normal passing off, forward passing off --there is a designation that Fox sponsored Dastar's goodsor approved it or was the origin of it. But you can --QUESTION: Now, I mean, that's -- that's onereading of that. I mean, you could say -- and maybe --maybe it's the more natural reading -- that as to theorigin by another person means that some other personoriginated it. But it could mean as to the origin byanother person, if I represent that I originated it, okay,when in fact another person originated it, I would bemaking a misrepresentation as to the origin by anotherperson because I'm denying that that other personoriginated it. I'm saying that I did. Wouldn't that be a misrepresentation as to the origin by another person?MR. GERBER: I don't think -- the -- the latterprinciple that Your Honor stated I think would be correct,but I would suggest that it's not illustrated by theexample.I think Your Honor is perhaps looking at the asto language here. And in our view what that means is thata representation by Dastar that Fox did sponsor Dastar'swork or that Fox did not sponsor Dastar's work would becovered. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC QUESTION: Yes, either it did or did not. Either it did or did not.MR. GERBER: But neither of -- both of those arein contrast to reverse passing off in which the offendingparty is putting its own name on the work. So thatdoesn't help.And the -- the other argument -- the otherconstruction, which is the only competitor on the tablehere by respondents to --QUESTION: Well, excuse me. Before you geton --MR. GERBER: Excuse me, Your Honor.QUESTION: When -- when you put your own name onit, aren't you denying that it was originated by somebodyelse?MR. GERBER: You're not stating that it wasoriginated by another person, and that is the statutoryrequirement.QUESTION: You're -- you're stating that it wasnot. You're saying that it was not originated by anotherperson. And that seems to me it could be interpreted asbeing a misrepresentation as to the origin by anotherperson.MR. GERBER: Well, I --QUESTION: If you put your name on it, you're th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC saying I did it. Nobody else did it. You -- you madea -- well --MR. GERBER: Pardon me. I -- I would rely onthe statutory distinction. It's one thing to make arepresentation that the wrongdoer is the originator, withwhatever implications that may have, and another to make amisrepresentation which -- which seems down the middle ofthe alley of the statutory language, that another person,Fox, originated the work.QUESTION: Well, and is this affected at all bythe fact that the copyright had expired? This was in thepublic domain.MR. GERBER: Well --QUESTION: Is there some -- how does that affectit? Can you put your own name on something that's now in the public domain?MR. GERBER: That, separate and apart from themost sweeping argument we have, really goes to a number ofother attacks on what the lower court did. The shortanswer is you can if it is not likely --QUESTION: Mr. Gerber, I'd like to go back towhat the lower court did because I don't think that youwere accurate when you said in the view of the lowercourt, this was a non-attribution case. I'm looking atpage , and the court indeed does start out by saying th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC that defendants failed to identify the series, but thenthere's a semicolon, and it goes on to say --QUESTION: Excuse me. Where -- where is this? At what page -- what page are we on?QUESTION: -- a of the petition.I'm questioning Mr. Gerber's characterizationthat this case is simply a non-attribution one becauseafter the semicolon, it says why that was a problem. It's -- it gives the false impression that the seriescontains only the work of those listed in the credits. Sothat was the problem that was central for the districtcourt, not simply a non-attribution, but an incorrectattribution. And I don't see how you can ignore thatclear statement by the district court.MR. GERBER: Well, in the district court, if one is talking about the -- the wheat and the chaff, onpage a in which the district court introduces itslengthy discussion, the statement is that the lawsuit isbased on defendant's distribution of a video series, whichplaintiffs claim is an infringement of the protectedmaterial found in the book, and is an appropriation of thetelevision series, Crusade in Europe, without propercredit.Now, the reason I think that is the correctinterpretation of what the district court was doing -- th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC QUESTION: Without proper credit could meanimproper credit, but when the court is developing thatpoint in full, it says there are two things. It was thefailure to identify. Why was that a violation of theLanham Act in the court's view? Because it gave the falseimpression that only those listed --MR. GERBER: Yes. I would suggest that withoutproper credit means what it says. It doesn't meanimproper credit. It means that the proper credits werenot affixed.And then, of course, when you look at the NinthCircuit -- Circuit --QUESTION: It was an improper attribution case,not simply a non-attribution case. I'm simply questioningyour original characterization which I do not think pays attention to what the district court, in fact, said.MR. GERBER: I understand, Justice Ginsburg, butagain I would urge that without proper credit, thatphrase, is not a statement that there were impropercredits. It's a statement that the proper credits wereabsent. And I would add that whatever ambiguity may lurkin the district court's findings, it's quite clear that atthe Ninth Circuit level, which, of course, is what thisCourt is reviewing, the case is a non-attribution case.QUESTION: The Ninth Circuit had a rather quick, th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC unpublished opinion --MR. GERBER: Correct.QUESTION: -- in this case.MR. GERBER: We agree with that.QUESTION: So it didn't tell us very much.(Laughter.)MR. GERBER: If -- if I may turn just for amoment to some of the -- to the question , the remediesissue. Here we would urge that the statutory language andlegislative intent, to the extent that it is pertinent,coalesce. Subject to the principles of equity, meanssubject to the principles of equity.This Court, while the Lanham Act was beingdebated, applied equitable principles in an intellectualproperty case to define the circumstances under which profits may be disgorged. That's the Sheldon case. Andit said equitable disgorgement of profits is permissibleonly for restitutionary purposes, only to restore toplaintiff something that he has lost. That by definitionprecludes a purely deterrent award which is notrestitutionary in the slightest.If the Court has no further questions, I wouldlike to reserve my remaining time.QUESTION: Very well, Mr. Gerber.Mr. Garre, we'll hear from you. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC ORAL ARGUMENT OF GREGORY G. GARREON BEHALF OF THE UNITED STATES,AS AMICUS CURIAE, SUPPORTING THE PETITIONERMR. GARRE: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice, andmay it please the Court:The petitioner in this case did not make anyfalse designation as to the origin of its good, avideotaped series on World War II, when it put its ownlabel on that good. Petitioner manufactured the good atissue in this case, the video series. It produced it andit and it distributed it to consumers. Under this Court'sdecisions interpreting the Lanham Act and under the LanhamAct itself, petitioner is, therefore, the origin of thegood at issue at this case and is the source of that goodin the way that this Court has used that term. In , Congress addressed the question ofartistic attribution and it addressed it in the -- in thecontext of the copyright laws. And it --QUESTION: Excuse me. Before you go on,suppose -- suppose they hadn't edited the -- the priorCrusade in Europe thing at all. They had not doneanything to it, didn't have a -- a new introduction,didn't have the little snippets of addition that they had. However, they did, indeed, make the copies and they --they made the -- the plastic cassette in which it was th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC inserted and so forth.Would you take the position that -- that theywere the origin of that -- of that product and thereforecould represent that it was their product?MR. GARRE: We -- we would take that position,Justice Scalia, and I think that -- that would beconsistent with the way this Court has consistentlyinterpreted the term origin, if you look at the Wal-Martcase, the Qualitex case, and going back to the concurringdecisions in the Two Pesos, which is to refer to thesource of production or manufacture.QUESTION: Production not in the Hollywood senseof production.MR. GARRE: Absolutely, and --QUESTION: Production in the sense of I made this -- this physical article.MR. GARRE: That's correct, Justice Scalia. Andthat's -- of course, we encourage the intellectualproperty laws, and this Court's decisions encourage firmsto go out and copy goods that come into the public domain. In the Court's recent TrafFix case --QUESTION: That's what this was, in the publicdomain, was it not?MR. GARRE: That's correct. The television --QUESTION: Do you think that this Dastar product th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC could have been copyrightable as a derivative work on itsown?MR. GARRE: We do think that it could becopyrightable as a derivative work to the extent that it'snot subject to copyright protection. Of course, the --the original television series was subject to a copyright,but that copyright expired in because respondent,Twentieth Century Fox, failed to renew it. And of course,if -- if the respondent had renew it, one suspects that wewouldn't be here today arguing about the -- an expansiveinterpretation of the Lanham Act.Now, Congress has addressed the -- the questionof artistic rights of attribution. It did so in thecontext of the copyright laws, and it did so verycarefully. It limited -- it recognized specific rights of artistic attribution in , but it limited those rightsto a small class of visual arts, made them personal to theauthor of those works, and limited the duration of thelife -- limited the duration of the -- the rights to thelife of the author.In this case, the Ninth Circuit recognized ageneral right of artistic attribution that is not limitedin time, that applies to a work, an audiovisual work, thatCongress specifically exempted from the scope of its legislation and that is not personal to the author of the th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC work, which in this case was Time Inc. who initiallyproduced the television series.QUESTION: Now, is there -- is there no -- Iunderstand you're saying I say I produced this, all itmeans is I produced this physical object. But suppose inaddition the person says I produced this -- this physicalobject and, moreover, I -- I produced the show that is onthis physical object. That is, I'm using produced in theHollywood sense now. Is there -- is there -- when in factI didn't. I just did a little bit and most of it was doneby Fox.MR. GARRE: Well --QUESTION: Is there no remedy for that? Becausethat's what they say occurred here. They -- they wouldn'tmind your just saying, you know, I -- I am the maker of this cassette or of this disk. They wouldn't mind that. But -- but what happened was that on the disk it said I amthe artistic producer of this thing. That's what they'recomplaining about. Now, is there no remedy for that whenthey weren't?MR. GARRE: Two responses. First, when theylabeled a good that they manufactured and produced astheir own good, they didn't make any false designation oforigin within the meaning of section (a)()(A) of the Lanham Act. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC Now, as we've discussed in our brief, section(a)()(B) of the Lanham Act, which the respondents in thiscase have never invoked and the courts below didn'taddress, isn't limited to false designations of origin. It applies to false designations that misrepresent thenature or qualities or characteristics of a good.So the second type of description that YourHonor characterized conceivably could fall within thescope of section (a)()(B), but of course section(a)()(B) was not raised in this case and it's alsolimited to the context of commercial advertising andprotection.The purpose of the Lanham Act and the trademarklaws -- and this is made clear in the definition oftrademark that appears at U.S.C. , is to ensure that firms identify and distinguish their goods in orderto prevent consumer confusion as to the source of goods.QUESTION: There isn't any general Federalanti-lying law --MR. GARRE: Well --QUESTION: -- that you could get these people --(Laughter.)MR. GARRE: No. There's -- there's anothersource, Justice Scalia, and we've mentioned in note ofour brief, the Federal Trade Commission Act gives the th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC Federal Trade Commission authority to go out and addressdeceptive or unfair trade practices. But that statute tooisn't limited to false designations of origin. Origindoesn't even appear in that -- in that statute. Originhas --QUESTION: If I -- if I just read the -- thelabel on the videotape and it says Campaigns in Europe andit's identical to Crusades in Europe, and I want to sueunder (B) because I've just bought something thatduplicated what I bought last week, does the labelconstitute commercial advertising or promotion?MR. GARRE: We haven't addressed that issue,Justice Kennedy, and -- and there is some varying case lawon that. I think most courts would probably answer thatquestion in the negative. Most courts have interpreted section (a)()(B) to refer to advertising in the printad --QUESTION: Well, then (B) doesn't -- doesn'thelp and if -- if --MR. GARRE: Well, of course --QUESTION: -- in the case I put, the -- the hopeyou hold out for us under (B) isn't -- isn't verypromising unless you're talking about sitting and readingwhat comes on in -- in --MR. GARRE: Of course, advertising is often -- th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC QUESTION: -- in the credits which no one everreads.(Laughter.)MR. GARRE: Advertising is often associated withthe sale of products, but more importantly, (a)()(A) isaddressed -- it's intended to ensure that consumers canlook at a product and identify the source of that productso if they do have complaints about the product, they cango to that person. And notably, in this case, no consumerwho has ever purchased petitioner's videos has registeredany complaint along the lines that Your Honor issuggesting. And if --QUESTION: Well, I'm -- I'm supposing a case,and I thought you had indicated that (B) might cover it,but there has to be some advertising other than what's on -- on the label.MR. GARRE: Under section (a)()(B), that'scorrect, but I think that the important distinctionbetween (a)()(B) and (a)()(A) in this case with respectto origin is that -- is that (a)()(A) is limited tofalse designations of origin or as to sponsorship orapproval, and -- and the latter two elements, sponsorshipor approval, aren't addressed in -- in this case. (a)()(B) is much broader and -- and would include thetypes of other representations that Your Honor is th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC concerned about.And of course, all this we think goes back tothe notion that respondents seek artistic attribution fortheir product.QUESTION: May I -- on that score, may I go backto your answer to Justice O'Connor's question about the --the possibility of copyright as derivative work? Wouldthat copyright cover not only the new material, but allthe original material that they incorporated in?MR. GARRE: I believe that the copyright wouldcover the new material. And of course, the --QUESTION: So -- so that if they -- if they didthat, if they got that copyright, they then couldn't turnaround and sue for copyright infringement when theoriginal Crusade in Europe was -- was marketed by the others.MR. GARRE: I -- I think that's right. Wehaven't addressed that --QUESTION: Okay. Okay.MR. GARRE: -- question in detail in our brief.QUESTION: But your -- in that case your -- yourunderstanding is that it's only the new material thatwould be subject to copyright.MR. GARRE: Under the derivative work.QUESTION: Yes. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC MR. GARRE: I believe that that's true.But we think it's also important that when aconsumer buys the product in this case, a video -- apackage of videotapes on World War II, the consumerdoesn't purchase the intellectual property on those tapes. And that's the purpose of the FBI warning that appears atthe very beginning of -- of the tape. The consumerpurchases a videotape series package and a copy of thatwhich it can view at home. Nothing in the Lanham Act,which is not an artistic credit statute, required thepetitioner in this case to provide any attribution to thetrue creator of the television series that petitionerinitially copied.QUESTION: Or prevented him from -- preventedthem from making a misattribution. You have to add that. MR. GARRE: Well, we -- we think that -- that'strue with respect to authorship because we don't thinkauthorship or -- or the concept of invention is covered by(a)()(A).And, of course, the notion of attribution thatrespondents would urge this Court to adopt this case wouldhave to apply to other types of goods like the sign standin the TrafFix case. No one in TrafFix suggested thatpetitioner could go out and reverse engineer and copy thesign stand which had entered the public domain. But that th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC when it did that, it had to go and give credit toMarketing Displays, the firm that initially had the -- thepatent on that, or to the original inventor himself,Robert Sarkisian.Now --QUESTION: Mr. Garre, before you finish, therewas a reference in your brief that I didn't follow. Itcropped up in another brief too, and it had -- it was areference to the Berne Convention. Could you -- what isthe relevance of that international treaty to this -- tothis case?MR. GARRE: May I answer that question?QUESTION: Briefly.MR. GARRE: It is relevant in that it's aninternational convention that -- that covers copyrights, but we explain our brief it -- we don't think that itaffects the analysis in this case because it -- as -- asthe Berne Convention Implementation Act states, it doesn'texpand or reduce existing rights under -- under domesticlaw.QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. Garre.MR. GARRE: Thank you.QUESTION: Ms. Cendali, we'll hear from you.QUESTION: It's still too high.(Laughter.) th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC ORAL ARGUMENT OF DALE M. CENDALION BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTSMS. CENDALI: Italians.Mr. Chief Justice, and may it please the Court:This is not a case about copying. It's a caseabout deception. No one is disputing that someone has theright to copy works when they're no longer protected bycopyright or patent, but as this Court has long recognizedin decisions like Bonita Boats, Sears, and Compco, thatdoesn't give you the right to create consumer confusion inhow you label such works.This, I should correct, is not a case about awork that's actually in the public domain. Since theNinth Circuit decision, as we've explained in our brief,we retried the work for hire issue. The district court once again affirmed her previous summary judgment decisionthat the work was work for hire. So the underlying bookby General Eisenhower is, in fact, still protected bycopyright, though they intend to appeal.In any case, here Dastar violated the Lanham Actby advertising, packaging, titling, and crediting Crusadein Europe in a manner intentionally designed to give thefalse impression that it was an original productoriginally created by it. And Dastar knew, moreover, thatconsumer confusion was likely. Norman Andersen, Dastar's th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC President, admitted that a consumer would not be happy tohave purchased a copy of Campaigns if he or she alreadyhad a copy of Crusade.QUESTION: But the -- the issue is whether theLanham Act creates a cause of action with respect to thatparticular unhappiness. What do you respond to thecontention that the word origin in this provision simplymeans who manufactured it, not whose -- whose idea it was?And to put it in -- it applies in a patentcontext as -- as well. You know these -- these vise gripsthat you can have a pliers that will hold on automaticallyuntil you release it. Suppose the patent has -- hasexpired on that, and I produce an identical copy of -- ofthe vise grip and I sell it and I say, you know,manufactured by Scalia. Do I have to say, oh, but it's not my idea? I want you to know that, you know, Mr. ViseGrip is the guy that -- that originally did it.(Laughter.)QUESTION: I don't have to say that, do I?MS. CENDALI: Absolutely not, Your Honor, andwe're not urging that, but --QUESTION: And what if I say, and moreover itwas my original idea? Would there be a cause of actionunder the Lanham Act?MS. CENDALI: Yes, that would -- th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC QUESTION: It would be.MS. CENDALI: If -- if you hold yourself outfalsely --QUESTION: Oh, my.(Laughter.)MS. CENDALI: If you hold yourself out falselyas the inventor of a product when you are not, thatcreates liability under the Lanham Act.QUESTION: Why? What does -- what does thathave to do with -- all right. I don't see it.QUESTION: Why is it -- I mean, why is it LanhamAct rather than Copyright Act?MS. CENDALI: Well, the Copyright Act just dealswith copying, people making copies of something andselling it. The Lanham Act deals with deception, and that's what -- that's what this is. It's not just thatthey made the copies, but by crediting themselves as thecreator of Campaigns in Europe, they were able to jumpstart their video business and to be able to then get allthe good will associated with that product and say, look,we can make these videos --QUESTION: No. I -- I realize that, but yousay, well, the Copyright Act is concerned with copying. It's -- it's concerned basically with -- with copying acertain intellectual content. That's what's -- that's th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC what they're trying to protect.MS. CENDALI: That's right.QUESTION: The Lanham Act, I thought, was nottrying to protect intellectual content. It doesn't haveto. There's another statute there. The Lanham Act, Ithought, wanted to make it clear -- wanted producers tomake it clear who is at fault if somebody buys the productand doesn't like it. There's no deception here aboutthat, is there? They know they're going to go to Dastarand raise the devil if -- if they don't like it. Isn'tthat the point of the Lanham Act?MS. CENDALI: No, Your Honor. For one thing, ifthey don't like the content and they go to Dastar, they'llhave no one to talk to.With regard to the purposes of the Lanham Act, as this Court has made clear in Inwood and in Qualitex --QUESTION: No, but they will have somebody totalk to. Dastar will say -- I'm assuming they are honestpeople, and they will say, well, yes, we did that. You --MS. CENDALI: But --QUESTION: -- you don't like the fact that wecopied this other stuff and said it was ours? We're theones to blame.MS. CENDALI: But the purposes of the LanhamAct, as this Court has made clear numerous occasions, th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC most -- very recently in Qualitex, is to let consumers beable to know when they're getting a product, if they wantto get -- if they like it, they want to get other thingsfrom that product -- from that supplier, they can.QUESTION: Dastar knows who to plagiarize.(Laughter.)QUESTION: When -- when I see the Dastar name,I'm getting good stuff.(Laughter.)MS. CENDALI: Well -- well, Your Honor, you justdon't know whether the next person they plagiarize isgoing to be as good as Twentieth Century Fox --QUESTION: That's why I'm relying -- yes, butI'm relying on them.(Laughter.)QUESTION: They -- they knew who to copy thefirst time. It seems to me that is just as much a -- aguarantee that they'll know who to copy the next time, asif they had made it themselves.MS. CENDALI: Well, the other problem with it,beyond the fact that they are deprived, because you haveno idea whether the next time they copy will be as good asthe first time, you're also depriving the consumer of theability to end up buying two of the same product, a veryreal possibility that they would recognize. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC QUESTION: That's right, and they -- and theycan go to -- and they can go to Dastar and raise thedevil. They said, you didn't tell us that you copied thatother thing. We'll never buy Dastar again. But they knowexactly who to blame.MS. CENDALI: They don't know who to blamebecause if someone buys Campaigns and Crusade, they willnot know who cheated them. They will not be able to tell. The products are lodged with the Court. The Court canlook at them. If you bought them both, if I bought my dadone for Christmas and another one for him for hisbirthday, he's not going to be happy to find he has hours of the same -- two copies of the same -hourvideotape. And in page of the record, it's clear thatthere are hours of content in that.QUESTION: But the same point. Why can't he sueor you sue Dastar?MS. CENDALI: You wouldn't know who to sue. Andmaybe he also would think --QUESTION: You sue the person you bought itfrom.MS. CENDALI: But it could have been Fox. Hewouldn't have known who was the one telling the truth. Moreover, he also wouldn't know -- maybe he would think,you know what? th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC QUESTION: Well, he can sue -- he can sue themboth and find out.(Laughter.)MS. CENDALI: I don't know if that's -- that'sthe -- the best way the law should deal with it. Goingback to Justice Scalia's question, though, about origin,there's nothing in the Lanham Act to suggest that Congresswanted to limit the word origin to just the manufacture ofa product.Now, in Justice Stevens' concurring opinion inTwo Pesos, he specifically noted that the term origin hasexpanded over time from its original roots as denotinggeographic origin, a concept that's now in (a)()(B) ofthe Lanham Act, to encompass origin of both source andmanufacture. So just by this Court's own opinion, source is something different from manufacture.What is source? Going back to Justice O'Connorwriting for the Court in Feist, in talking about origin,originator, author, the common reading of what --QUESTION: Yes, but there is -- there is a sortof an ambiguity or at least a debate over what the sourceis. I think your Traficante -- the -- the sign that stoodup well in the wind -- what obligation did the -- did thesecond manufacturer have to say the idea was somebodyelse's? th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC MS. CENDALI: Absolutely none. They could --QUESTION: Why not? Why isn't it the same case?MS. CENDALI: It's not at all the same case. But when you're -- because you're simply selling aphysical product -- if all Dastar did here was sellCrusade in Europe as Crusade in Europe, it would be atotally different case. But what they did here is theyheld themselves out as the maker of it, as the creator ofit.QUESTION: No, but they didn't hold themselvesout as the people who took all the pictures. A lot ofthem were secondhand pictures, you know, taken by newsphotographers and all sorts of people.MS. CENDALI: They held themselves out byputting their names and only their names on the credits, by -- by having a special thanks to the National Archivesright before their names, when they admitted they had nocontact -- contact with the National Archives with regardto creating these products, by putting only a 'copyright notice on it, by -- by listing only themselvesas producers. The only conclusion one can reach --QUESTION: I don't -- I don't readily see thedifference between that and the sign situation. The signmanufacturer wants everybody to think what a brilliantbuilder of signs he is. He has a lot of other models in th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC his catalog.MS. CENDALI: But the sign manufacturer -- whenwe deal with products, we don't normally think, when youhave a product, that someone is saying I invented this. We're accustomed to lots of people selling similarproducts. The commercial context is very different.QUESTION: Is what you're -- is what you'resaying that when you buy the books or the videotape,you're buying it because you think it's going to bedifferent and you're disappointed when you find out thatit isn't. With -- with TrafFix you know if it's a signthat stands in the wind that --MS. CENDALI: Well, you're right, Your Honor.QUESTION: But that goes again to what I --Justice Souter's initial line of questioning. I -- Ireally think it's the major problem in the case for me.QUESTION: Yes, and --QUESTION: What you do is you sue the sellerDastar -- Dastar -- for misrepresenting.MS. CENDALI: But --QUESTION: And -- and that Fox is not theinjured person.MS. CENDALI: I maybe can help you on that, YourHonor --QUESTION: And that's critical in the case for th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC me.MS. CENDALI: -- because -- because the LanhamAct does not provide a cause of action for consumers. Soif you -- if you posit the idea that consumers need to --can sue Dastar if they're disgruntled, they cannot do thatunder the Lanham Act. The Lanham Act provides -- it'sbeen well recognized that there's only -- there's no causeof action for consumers. The only people then who cansue --QUESTION: There's no cause of action if acommercial advertising misrepresents the nature of the --of the goods?MS. CENDALI: No, Your Honor. There's been --if you can look in McCarthy, there's well-established caselaw.QUESTION: No. But who has the cause of action? The cause of action is the other company.MS. CENDALI: The -- that's right. The peoplewho can sue are people such as -- as respondents --QUESTION: All right.MS. CENDALI: -- who are -- who are -- who havehad some other company come along, steal the --QUESTION: No, I -- I --MS. CENDALI: -- good will of this productand -- th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC QUESTION: I realize.QUESTION: Well, you know, I -- I -- this justtotally ignores the fact that it was in the public domain. I mean, of course, they had a right to copy it. Whydidn't Fox renew the copyright if they wanted to do that?MS. CENDALI: Your Honor, they had --QUESTION: You wouldn't have all this trouble ifthey had renewed the copyright.MS. CENDALI: There's -- there's no issue ifthey simply copied it as Crusade in Europe and sold it asCrusade in Europe. There -- we would not be here on aLanham Act cause of action. Our problem is, as we said inour complaint at -- at paragraphs and I believe,what they did was that they held themselves out as theproducers.QUESTION: No, but isn't the --QUESTION: Does someone have a right to go inand take part of a previous work that's now in the publicdomain and add original work to it and reissue it undertheir name and get a derivative copyright for at least thenew part? Now, is that authorized?MS. CENDALI: Yes, they absolutely can dothat --QUESTION: Yes.MS. CENDALI: -- but when you have a case like th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC this which is two courts have found it was a bodilyappropriation. The only things they changed were to --QUESTION: -- the State court, we're talkingabout the district court and the court of appeals in a --MS. CENDALI: That's right.QUESTION: -- a jurisdiction that has taken arather extreme view of what the Lanham Act protects. That's what we're reviewing. I mean, there -- it -- it'sa means, it seems to me, of expanding copyrightprotection.MS. CENDALI: Your Honor, I -- I really don'tthink so because, again, they could have copied. Theproblem isn't with the copying. The problem was thetaking credit for themselves. Going back to themisattribution point on page of the cert petition and Justice -- Judge Cooper's description of her own summaryjudgment decision, she says, by bodily appropriating theCrusade series and falsely identifying themselves asproducers of Campaigns --QUESTION: How does the phrase, bodilyappropriation, fit into the Lanham Act?MS. CENDALI: I think it's designed as a -- as atool in reverse passing off cases where you're dealingwith products to help assess how similar those -- thoseproducts are. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC To go back to --QUESTION: Certainly there's nothing like thatin the Lanham Act itself.MS. CENDALI: No, but -- but what it's trying todo is to find a way of getting at the reverse passing offproblem. The Lanham Act doesn't provide a particular wayof establishing confusion, deception, or --QUESTION: But what it -- what the Ninth Circuittheory seems to me to do is to equate the likelihood ofconsumer confusion with bodily appropriation. Now, in --in the case of the traffic sign, once there was no moreprotection under law for that, some other manufacturer cancome in and sell it and produce it and that's a bodilyappropriation, all right, but it wasn't treated asproducing consumer confusion. Why should this? MS. CENDALI: I don't think it -- there would beliability for TrafFix under the Ninth Circuit test becauseit's not just bodily appropriation, but it'smisattribution. And as I say, when you're just simplysaying I manufactured the product, you're notmisattributing it. If Dastar said, Dastar -- Imanufactured and distributed this product, that would notbe reverse passing off. They are allowed to creditthemselves for what they did. They just cannot creditthemselves for what they didn't do. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC QUESTION: What -- Ms. Cendali, how far back doyou go? I mean, my problem with your interpretation ofthe word origin -- it seems to me a very good cut-offpoint means origin means who's selling it, who -- whoproduced the physical thing. Now, you -- you don't wantto limit it to that. You want to say it also includeswhat the physical thing contains if it's a -- if it's anintellectual matter.But why do you cut it off at the last copyrightowner? I mean, suppose the cassette contained CarmenJones. Okay? Why -- why -- would I have to identify notonly whoever was the author of the derivative work, CarmenJones, Harry Belafonte -- I don't know who did it. WouldI also have to identify Bizet as -- as the, you know,the -- the author of the original idea, plus the unknown Frenchman who wrote the novel from whom Bizet got the --got the idea?MS. CENDALI: Absolutely not, Your Honor. There --QUESTION: Why not?MS. CENDALI: Because --QUESTION: Why -- why do you arbitrarily say,you know, you go back to the last copyright owner?MS. CENDALI: It has nothing to do with who isthe copyright owner or not. It's distinct from copyright. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC The issue is and the only issue a court needs to decide inthese cases is does the person claiming a credit forthemselves --QUESTION: Right.MS. CENDALI: -- was that accurate. So if theperson --QUESTION: Okay. But may I ask what differencewould it make if the person claiming the credit, insteadof claiming for himself, said, developed by an unknowngenius --(Laughter.)QUESTION: -- when he knows it was developed byyou? That would be equally misleading. And would it becovered?it.MS. CENDALI: I'm -- I'm sorry. If --QUESTION: The representation is not I developedMS. CENDALI: Right.QUESTION: I know you developed it. What I --what I represent is it was developed by a brilliant thirdparty whose name I'm not going to disclose. Would that bealso actionable?MS. CENDALI: I don't think so, Your Honor.QUESTION: Why not? It's the same -- it's thesame impact on you. It fails to give you credit for what th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC you did.MS. CENDALI: But again, the issue isn't givingus credit. The -- the danger here is them taking thecredit, them taking it --QUESTION: Well, but what does it matter whetherthey take the credit for themselves or -- or for ThomasEdison or some third party that everybody assumes reallyis the genius here? It's false in both cases.MS. CENDALI: You're -- you're right. If -- ifI understand what you're saying is if someone mislabels aproduct in a false way as to what the origin of thatproduct is --QUESTION: Yes.MS. CENDALI: -- that is -- that I believe isactionable under the Lanham Act, and I think it should be. QUESTION: Even you didn't have a copyright. And that would apply even if you had no copyright on theproduct, just -- just --MS. CENDALI: Copyright really has nothing to dowith -- with this case. They're separate causes of actionfor separate purposes --QUESTION: Does it have to be a deliberate orcould be a mistake? Suppose the person thought the thirdparty did it and he was wrong. He said this was reallywritten by William Shakespeare and it was written by Joe th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC Smith. Would that also be actionable?MS. CENDALI: If it was -- if it was a mistake,it may be false or misleading, but there wouldn't beany -- the damage is likely to be very different if therewas a mistake.QUESTION: Why wouldn't the damage be exactlythe same? You didn't get credit for something youdeveloped.MS. CENDALI: But again, it's not the -- to goback, Your Honor, it's not the giving us credit. It'ssimply the injury lies from someone taking the credit forthemselves, for a company such as Dastar with noexperience in the video business to suddenly in months,at the investment of $,, be able to produce a -hourvideo tape that it can represent to the world and use to jump start its video business and sell other boxedsets in competition with our client.QUESTION: Well, that's certainly -- it may beunfair competition, but I'm not sure that it has anythingto do with confusion.Let me -- may I ask you a different kind ofquestion? I thought, in answer to a question I put to youearlier, that you might be suggesting -- you did not comeout and say it, but I thought you might be suggesting thatthere would be a different kind of analysis, depending on th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC whether we were talking about an object like the sign onthe two springs, on the one hand, and an object withintellectual content on the other.You said to me -- I -- I said, you know, they --if they don't like what they get, they will know thatDastar is to blame. And your answer was, no, they won't because they won't know whether Dastar copied or Fox orFox copied Dastar. And therefore Fox will suffer becausethere is confusion and Fox will get hurt. And -- and thatseems to be a distinction based on the fact that you'rebuying intellectual content as opposed simply to buying asign that either stays up or it doesn't stay up. Is -- isthat an argument that -- that you would make?MS. CENDALI: Well, yes, in part, in the sensethat certainly when someone buys a creative work knowing the author is important to the person. If you like a TomClancy novel, you'll buy another Tom Clancy novel.QUESTION: No, but I mean, that's important tome, but I thought your argument was that the originalproducer is -- is, in fact, going to be hurt by theconfusion because maybe the original producer will beblamed for the fact that there are these two identicalintellectual products on the market.MS. CENDALI: Yes. That's exactly right.QUESTION: All right. Now, what happens in the th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC case -- what would happen in the case in -- in which we --we start out with -- with Fox marketing its -- its seriesand they call it Crusade in Europe, just -- just asthey -- they labeled the original TV program, and Dastarcomes out with a -- with a series which is identical toit, again, copyright has expired? Dastar comes out with aseries that is identical to it and calls it War and simplysays at the bottom of -- of the cassette, cassettemanufactured by Dastar. Is there a Lanham Act violationthen? There is no claim that Dastar produced anything. Is there a Lanham Act violation then?MS. CENDALI: There would not be a falsedesignation of origin claim under (a)()(A). It's --because -- because Dastar is not representing itself to bethe -- the creator. It's accurately just simply listing itself --QUESTION: But the consumer would be just as madand -- I suppose, and there would be a danger even in thesecond case of Fox being blamed for the identity of thesetwo products.MS. CENDALI: But there might -- there would be,however, I believe in that scenario a claim under(a)()(B) of the Lanham Act for falsely describing thenature of the product. As -- as the cases cited in ourbrief -- th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC QUESTION: No, but in my second example, theydidn't falsely describe it. They just said, cassetteproduced by Dastar.MS. CENDALI: Only -- that was true from thepurposes of origin, and I'm saying there wouldn't be anorigin claim.QUESTION: Yes.MS. CENDALI: But with regard to the title, forthe reasons discussed in the Second Circuit cases, the newAmerican Library cases, when someone comes up with acreative work, and puts a title on it, inherent in thatuse is the idea that -- that this --QUESTION: Any change in title is therefore adeception.MS. CENDALI: It -- it -- that's what those cases said, so to the --QUESTION: It's a deception in the sense thatit's an implicit denial of the identity.MS. CENDALI: That's right --QUESTION: Yes, okay.MS. CENDALI: -- and so therefore, I think thatwould be a separate issue. And that's why as consumers,we all know when we look at a book and we check to see,you know, if it was the same Agatha Christie bookpublished under a different title. And that's an example th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC where disclaimers are not very difficult for people todeal with in -- in reality, and something that consumersall can expect.QUESTION: Ms. Cendali, could you describe to usprecisely what it is that Dastar could represent? It hasthis cassette that it's selling, and you said that theycan't say produced by Dastar and not say Fox. Whatexactly could they say? You don't question that theycould copy word for word what's in the public domain. Inpackaging it, what could they say?MS. CENDALI: Probably the easiest thing forthem to have done would have been to have copied it downto the last iota of the frame and simply called it andsaid, manufactured and distributed by Dastar. That wouldnot have been a problem under the Lanham Act or the -- or the Copyright Act if -- but for the fact that the work isnot truly in public domain.If they had want -- they could have also said,new credits created by Dastar. They could have accuratelycredited themselves for that.They could have chosen not to credit anybody. There's no requirement of credit.Or they could have given credit to everyone. They could have listed the original creditors and theycould have -- creators, and they could have added their th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC name on it.All of these things they could have done whichwould have protected the consumer. The consumer wouldhave known what he or she was getting and also not usurpedfor themselves unjustly in an unjust enrichment way thegood will to which they do not deserve. This is --QUESTION: You haven't had time to address thedamages aspect of it, and if you're right that what wentwrong here was not the copying -- they were free tocopy --MS. CENDALI: Absolutely, Your Honor.QUESTION: Then -- and the only thing that waswrong was that they -- the attribution of creator.MS. CENDALI: The misattribution, yes, YourHonor.QUESTION: Why should they get the profits ofDastar when -- when all they did wrong -- I mean, did --copying the pages, copying the cassettes was fine. Itseems to me to -- to have that large disgorgement ofdamages is a misfit.MS. CENDALI: For several reasons, Your Honor. First, the -- what they -- the disgorgement is the normalremedy in cases like this because it's very difficult toestablish actual damages of -- of any type.The statute is premised and works this way. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC You -- you establish your entitlement to profits. Inother words, the plaintiff just simply, once they showliability, needs to show what their -- that they are --what the sales were, and then the burden is on Dastar tocome forward and establish what -- what deductions shouldbe from that. Deductions have included the ability toargue apportionment, that only some of the sales should beattributed to the infringement, for example.QUESTION: Yes, but can I interrupt with --with -- you got double profits in this case, didn't you?MS. CENDALI: Yes, we did. The court had --QUESTION: And wasn't the theory of that todeter new violations, which I find strange when there's aninjunction against new violations.MS. CENDALI: No, but -- but the issue here is the -- they -- this was undisputed. This was the first of videos. And as Judge Posner in the Louis Vuittonopinion, discussed in our brief, discusses the enhanceddamages, and, in fact, damages of any type, areparticularly proper in cases such as this where there's arisk of surreptitious infringement. And it's not easy todetect reverse passing off.You could easily have a situation where someonewould rather -- a rational, economic actor would ratherlose the profits on a particular item if -- if they can th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC get their entire stream of -- of business going forward. This is just such a case because this was their firstvideo. They -- they were able to use this to get instantlegitimacy in the video business, and get -- the injury tous isn't just with regard to this product, but the injuryfor us is the entire future diversion of sales thatthey've been able to get by suddenly using TwentiethCentury Fox's work to march into the video business andget profits time immemorial.That is why Congress has enacted the kind ofdamages provisions it has under the Lanham Act which Ithink are singularly suited for just this type of casewhere it's difficult to show actual damages in any givenway.I'll note, though, that the court in our case did specifically find that we did suffer actual damagesand they did not appeal from that. The -- the recordis -- is clear and they're bound with it, that we lostsales and that we also lost good will. They have notappealed from that. The court did not quantify that inany way, but the court then went on to award us profitsand, in her discretion, to award us double profits. Shewas using her discretion. She could have awarded trebleprofits, but she chose in the -- in the principles ofequity to make a rational decision as befitting the facts th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC of this case.And I -- she also had the opportunity, after adamages trial, to see the demeanor in each of everyone ofthe witnesses and to assess the credibility of theirvarious statements, and I'm sure she factored that intoher analysis as well.And I think that the award should be upheld andwe hope that the Court will affirm summary judgment. Inote that even though the Ninth Circuit opinion was -- wasshort, given the fact it was a summary unpublishedopinion, my understanding is that this Court has de novoreview and has the ability, if it so chooses, to affirmthe district court's opinion on any fact in the record.We think that the record amply supports the factthat there was reverse passing off here. It is a cause of action. I'm not aware of any court to ever suggest areading of the Lanham Act that reads reverse passing offout of the Lanham Act the way that the Solicitor Generaland Dastar urges here. I'm not aware of a single court toever make that suggestion. It just doesn't make sense inlight of the plain language of the Lanham Act. It doesn'tmake sense in light of the fact that, as this Court againhas recognized in Two Pesos, the ' amendments were onlydesigned to codify existing law. They weren't entitled --intended to make any change, and there was absolutely no th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC suggestion anywhere that anyone ever thought that reversepassing off should be eliminated. It's --QUESTION: Did the disclaimer or theacknowledgement have to be on the package or just in theforewords -- or on the film, just in the screen credits?MS. CENDALI: The disclaimer -- I'm sorry, YourHonor.QUESTION: If -- if Dastar had done what you saythey're required to do, would it have sufficed if they putthe information just on the screen credits, or does ithave to be on the package that the consumer buys?MS. CENDALI: Well, I think it -- probably onthe package the consumer buys it should have said,manufactured and distributed by Dastar.QUESTION: But -- and if it's not on the package, then there's --MS. CENDALI: And --QUESTION: -- then there's a cause of actioneven if it's on the screen credits?MS. CENDALI: No. I think that if thecredits -- if our credits are on the inside and not on theoutside, they wouldn't need to put a disclaimer probablyon the -- on the outside. In other words --QUESTION: But the buyer doesn't -- the buyerhas already bought it by the -- I mean, the screen th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC credits, you know, you're going to the refrigerator orreading cert petitions or something.(Laughter.)QUESTION: No one -- no one looks at --MS. CENDALI: Well, that -- well, that's why theouter packaging has to be correct. All I'm saying is thatif they simply put on the outer packaging manufactured anddistributed by Dastar, they wouldn't need to have adisclaimer. If on -- if on the inside they were doingsomething different, or if they --QUESTION: Again, I -- I'm bothered. It doesn'tseem to me this is for the protection of the consumer atall. I -- I understand what you're telling me about theact.MS. CENDALI: Well, again, you know, as this Court in Qualitex and other decisions have said, aconsumer -- and Colgate-Palmolive -- has the right to knowwhen they buy something, even if it's a capricious reason,you know, who they're getting it from and they should havethe right to base their future purchasing decisions basedon accurate information. Here Dastar took that right fromthe consumer. A consumer, if they liked Campaigns inEurope, they may go out --QUESTION: Yes, but if that's right, there's aduty to disclose the true producer then. That's your th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC position.MS. CENDALI: No. You would think it could be,but it doesn't have to be.QUESTION: Well, if you're saying they have aright to know that, there must be a duty to disclose.MS. CENDALI: No. Only that they had the rightnot to know what's false. In other words, the law couldgo so far --QUESTION: Well, that's a very lesser right thanthe one you were just describing --MS. CENDALI: I appreciate that, but -- butat -- at a minimum a consumer should not have falseinformation.And again, as I come back to where I started,that's what this is about. These videos have been lodged with the Court. I invite the Court to -- to look at them. And you will see how deceptive they are on the inside andon the outside and how going back to the -- my -- thefather getting the -- the Christmas and birthday presentsthat are identical, which is a very real possibility, thatis not a happy situation for the consumer. Congress putin the competitor the -- the private attorney general roleto stop it.And I note, moreover, that this was verytargeted act -- misconduct on their part. Before they th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC released Campaigns in Europe, they saw in a video catalogthat Crusade in Europe in a boxed set was for sale. Theydidn't care. They targeted the competition and theycontinued.Thank you.QUESTION: Thank you, Ms. Cendali.Mr. Gerber, you have minutes remaining.REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF DAVID A. GERBERON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERMR. GERBER: I have two short points.Number one, Ms. Cendali contends that there isno textual support in the section of the Lanham Act atissue, (a)()(A), supporting our and the SG'sinterpretation of origin and excluding the authorshipconcept. I would suggest that she's wrong.The textual support is the word origin. Unlikethe Copyright Act, which uses the word author, the PatentAct, which uses the word inventor, the Lanham Act uses adifferent word and the word is origin. And that iscompletely in accord with this Court's jurisprudence. Ithink perhaps as Justice Souter had suggested, the -- thepurpose from a policy perspective is to render efficientpurchasing decisions, as this Court stated in Qualitex.QUESTION: And you -- you would stand by thatfor forward -- th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC MR. GERBER: Absolutely.QUESTION: -- causes of action --MR. GERBER: Yes.QUESTION: -- as well as -- as well as reverse.MR. GERBER: Yes.QUESTION: So that if I sold a cassette that Iphysical manufactured and I advertised it as being CarmenJones, the original MGM production, and in fact it was TheCapitol Steps, there wouldn't be any -- there wouldn't beany Lanham Act cause of action.MR. GERBER: I think that is forward passingoff. I may be --QUESTION: That's what I'm saying. That'sforward passing off, and you would say that since originmeans what you say it means, I've manufactured the piece of plastic, there's no -- there's no cause of action underthe Lanham Act.MR. GERBER: Oh, excuse me. Yes.QUESTION: I mean, he who says A must say B,right?MR. GERBER: The -- the answer under thespecific, myopic section we're looking at that it iscorrect. That would not be assertable.It would be redressable under, arguably,subsection (B) and we may differ from the SG with respect th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC to commercial advertising and promotion and whether apoint of sale labeling qualifies.And under a lot of consumer protection statutesin the States as well as the Federal Trade Act, the -- thesecond point that I promised responds, I believe, toJustice O'Connor. I wanted to add to the answer to thequestion yes, this would be a copyrightable derivativework, the observation that the copyright defines propercredits for derivative works. It tells owners ofderivative works who may be designated as the copyrightproprietor, and the law there is that the owner of aderivative work, such as Dastar, may use its name. Itdoesn't have to refer to the names of owners ofpreexisting works. So what we have with the suggestion ofrespondents is a kind of dual series of credits, proper credits under the Copyright Act, and then authorialcredits.I -- I would suggest another example in responseto Justice Scalia's question, it can become quiteburdensome. You know, for a very highly complex,iterative product like a car, you might have pages ofcredits in the owner's manual before you even get to howdo you turn on the key under the alternative universe ofcredits that is completely different from the derivativework credits required by the Copyright Act. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC Unless the Court has further questions, then --QUESTION: Well, if you have a minute, would youaddress Ms. Cendali's argument that there is significancewhen a product has intellectual content and there isduplication because then the confusion may very well,indeed, redound to the -- to the original -- to theoriginator of the product? The consumer doesn't know whoto blame, so the originator of the product may well behurt. What is your response to that argument?MR. GERBER: I'm not sure I -- I'm recalling theexample completely. If I get it, the consumer does knowwho to blame. It has the --QUESTION: No. Her -- her point is you got --you got two sets of videos out. One has got Dastar on itsaying, in effect, it's ours. The other one has got Crusade in Europe saying Fox. The consumer is mad becausethe consumer has both. The consumer doesn't know who toblame, so the consumer blames both. What's the responseto that argument?MR. GERBER: I'm not sure I will buy into thatconsequence. Where both parties state their names asmanufacturer, the consumer could be quite happy. He couldsay Dastar's cost one-fifth of what Fox's did andrecommend it to all of his friends. So while there mightbe confusion in the literal sense, it might actually be th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC salutary. And the efficiency of that type of consumerdecision is really what putting the name of themanufacturer on enables the consumer to do. It rendersthe transactions efficient.CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: Thank you, Mr. Gerber.The case is submitted.(Whereupon, at : a.m., the case in theabove-entitled matter was submitted.) th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC 