 IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES---------------------------XBARBARA GRUTTER, Petitioner v. LEE BOLLINGER, et al., Respondents. :: : : : ---------------------------XNO. - Washington, D.C.Tuesday, April , The above-entitled matter came on for oralargument before the Supreme Court of the United Statesat : a.m.APPEARANCES:MR. KIRK O. KOLBO, ESQ., Minneapolis, Minnesota; on behalf of the Petitioner.GENERAL THEODORE B. OLSON, ESQ., Solicitor General,Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; as amicuscuriae, supporting Petitioner.MAUREEN E. MAHONEY, ESQ., Washington, D.C., onbehalf of the Respondents. C O N T E N T SORAL ARGUMENT OF KIRK O. KOLBO, ESQ. On behalf of the PetitionerGENERAL THEODORE B. OLSON, ESQ. As amicus curiae, supportingPetitioner MAUREEN MAHONEY, ESQ. On behalf of the RespondentsREBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF KIRK KOLBO, ESQ. On behalf of the PetitionerPAGE P R O C E E D I N G S(: a.m.)CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: We'll hear argumentnow in No. -, Barbara Grutter v. Lee Bollinger. Mr. Kolbo.ORAL ARGUMENT OF KIRK O. KOLBOON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERTHE WITNESS: Mr. Chief Justice and May itplease the Court: Barbara Grutter applied for admission to theUniversity of Michigan Law School with a personal rightguaranteed by the Constitution that she would not have herrace counted against her. That race -- that theapplication would be considered for free from the taint ofracial discrimination. The law school intentionally disregarded that right by discriminating against her onthe basis of race as it does each year in the case ofthousands of individuals who apply for admission.The law school defends its practice of racediscrimination as necessary to achieve a diverse studentbody. With the loss -- with the diversity that the lawschool is committed to ensuring and meaningful numbers orcritical mass, is of a narrow kind defined exclusively byrace and ethnicity.The constitutional promise of equality would not be necessary in a society composed of a single homogenousmass.It is precisely because we are a nation teemingwith different races and ethnicities -- one that isincreasingly interracial, multiracial, that it is socrucial for our Government to honor its solemn obligationto treat all members of our society equally withoutpreferring some individuals over others.QUESTION: Well, of course, you -- I mean, auniversity or a law school is faced with a serious problemwhen it's one that gets thousands of applications for justa few slots. Where it has to be selective. And inherentin that setting is making choices about what students toadmit.So you have an element here that suggests that there are many reasons why a particular student would beadmitted or not. And a lot of factors go into it.So how do you single this out and how are wecertain that there's an injury to your client that shewouldn't have experienced for other reasons?MR. KOLBO: Well, Your Honor, first of all, raceis impermissible because of the constitutional command ofequality. The university is certainly free to make manydifferent kinds of choices in selecting students.And to look for all kinds of different diversity, experiential diversity, prospective diversitywithout regard to race, but race because, Your Honor, ofthe constitutional command of equality, must be beyond thebounds --QUESTION: You say that's not -- it can't be afactor at all. Is that it? Is that your position that itcannot be one of many factors?MR. KOLBO: Our view, Your Honor, is that raceitself should not be a factor among others in choosingstudents because of the Constitution.QUESTION: Well, you have some -- someprecedents out there that you have to come to grips with,because the Court obviously has upheld the use of race inmaking selections or choices in certain contexts, forinstance, to remedy prior to discrimination in other contexts.We are --MR. KOLBO: Oh, absolutely, Your Honor.QUESTION: All right.MR. KOLBO: And I want to be clear about that. QUESTION: Well, but you are speaking inabsolutes and it isn't quite that. I think we have givenrecognition to the use of race in a variety of settings.MR. KOLBO: And we absolutely agree, JusticeO'Connor. QUESTION: Is it cause for concern with your --if you're the dean of the law school or the president inthe university or the Governor of the State that minoritystudents, particularly from the Black and Hispaniccommunity are underrepresented by a large factor,according to their -- their share of the population.Suppose you have a law school with two or threepercent Hispanic and -- and black students, is that alegitimate concern for the university and for the Stateofficials?MR. KOLBO: We believe not, Your Honor, for thereason that we need to get away from the notion thatthere's some right number for each racial group.QUESTION: So if year after year after yearthere's an underrepresentation, there is no cause for the State or the Government or its educational experts to beconcerned whatsoever?MR. KOLBO: I wouldn't say not to be concerned,Your Honor, I think the mere fact of underrepresentation,that is that say, blacks are not represented as they arein the population is not a concern that would justifyracial preferences. It certainly would justify perhapsbroad social and political concerns.QUESTION: Well, it's a broad social andpolitical concern that there are not adequate members of -- of a profession which is designed to protect our rightsand to -- and to promote progress. I would -- I shouldthink that's a very legitimate concern on the part of theState.MR. KOLBO: The current concern there, YourHonor, ought to be addressed by -- by addressing theproblem. If there is some reason that -- that particularminority groups are not participating as fully in thefruits of our society such as being represented at theschools, we need to address those problems.But racial preferences don't address thoseproblems.QUESTION: Mr. Kolbo, may I call your attentionin that regard to the brief that was filed on behalf ofsome retired military officers who said that to have an officer corps that includes minority members in anynumber, there is no way to do it other than to give not anoverriding preference, but a plus for race. It cannot bedone through a percentage plan, because of the importanceof having people who are highly qualified. What is youranswer to the argument made in that brief that theresimply is no other way to have Armed Forces in whichminorities will be represented not only largely among theenlisted members, but also among the officer cadre?MR. KOLBO: Justice Ginsburg, I don't believe we have an adequate record in this case from which toconclude that we wouldn't have representation ofminorities. The military in the absence of --QUESTION: Suppose that were true. Let's takethat as the fact, would you still say nonetheless even ifit's true that there will be very few, if any, minoritymembers admitted to the military academies, still youcannot use race?MR. KOLBO: I believe race could not be used,Your Honor. I think that other solutions could be lookedat addressing the problem why they are not minorities inthe military. I note that the United States has not takena position. We have the brief as Your Honor has mentionedfrom several individuals, the United States has not takena position in this case, the military academies have not taken a position.QUESTION: Yes, they have, if the brief isaccurate about the regulations, the academies have taken aposition?MR. KOLBO: As I understand it, Justice Stevens,the briefs are filed on the behalf of individuals.QUESTION: I understand that. But they arequoting material that the academies have distributed,which indicate they do give preferences.MR. KOLBO: Well, Your Honor -- QUESTION: Do you challenge the fact -- thatthat is a matter of fact?MR. KOLBO: We don't challenge what they say,Your Honor. We're just suggesting -- we don't have arecord in this case.QUESTION: No, but do you challenge the factthat they are giving the preference?MR. KOLBO: We don't have enough information onit to know whether --QUESTION: Are you serious that you think thereis a serious question about that? That we cannot takethat green brief as a representation of fact?MR. KOLBO: I just don't know, Your Honor, whatthe facts are with respect to the military because thiscase was --QUESTION: It depends on what factor you'retalking about, doesn't it? You accept the fact thatthey're giving preferences, but that doesn't convert tothe fact that if they didn't give preferences, there is noother way to get an officer corps that includes someminority people, does the brief say that?MR. KOLBO: It does not, Your Honor. We have noevidence as to what the extent of representation is.QUESTION: The issue as I understand it is notwhether without preferences there can be a military academy population with some minorities, the question iswhether without the -- the weighting of race that they doin fact give, they can have an adequate number ofminorities in the academies to furnish ultimately areasonable number of minorities in the officer corps,that's the issue, isn't it?MR. KOLBO: Well, Your Honor, again, the -- theterms you've used, reasonable and adequate, we have noinformation in this record on which I can make those --QUESTION: More than what would happen if theydid nothing?MR. KOLBO: And that number, Your Honor, I don'tknow what it is. Again, because it wasn't part of thiscase. I think it's more --QUESTION: More than what would happen if they did something else, such as making special provision forall people of economically disadvantaged background. Wedon't know whether that would have produced the samenumber, either.MR. KOLBO: That's correct, Your Honor. As theCourt --QUESTION: Do you believe that that would be anadequate -- at least means of experimenting here -- takeit as an alternative?MR. KOLBO: Taking race neutral alternatives into consideration?QUESTION: Well, taking for example economicdisadvantage?MR. KOLBO: Yes, Your Honor.QUESTION: Do you seriously believe that thatwould be anything but a surrogate to race? It would takethe word race out of the categorization of the label thatwe put on it, but do you believe it would function in adifferent way but as a surreptitious approach to race?MR. KOLBO: It certainly functions differently,Your Honor. Race controls --QUESTION: Do you think it would?MR. KOLBO: Certainly, yes --QUESTION: Is there any reason to believe thatit would?MR. KOLBO: I do, Your Honor, because it's notjust minorities that are socioeconomically disadvantagedin this country. That happens with respect across raciallines. So race neutral alternatives --QUESTION: The object -- but the object I wouldhave assumed given the dialogue, the object is to increasethe racial number of the percentage of minorities. Ifthat is the object, than whatever it is, it's not a raceneutral measure.MR. KOLBO: Well, I would disagree, Your Honor, because I think if you have a race neutral means thataccomplishes many purposes, and one of them is race, thatis not necessarily under this Court's precedentsunconstitutional. The Court --QUESTION: Well, let me ask you this, it's aboutthe military brief that you didn't come here to argueabout, but it will maybe get you back to your case.MR. KOLBO: Sure.QUESTION: The military brief tells us -- thegreen brief -- that there are preparatory schools that theacademies have and percent of the registration in thosepreparatory schools are racial minorities.And they -- suppose the Government does this andexpends money for the purpose of recruiting and helpingracial minorities apply to the academies and succeed there.Is that a proper constitutional purpose?MR. KOLBO: I see no constitutional objectionthere, Justice Kennedy. For the reason I think it -- it'squite permissible in principle to draw a line betweencasting a wider net, recruiting and -- and the point ofcompetition where people -- where people -- where thedecision must be made whether people are going to betreated on the basis of the same --QUESTION: Would you allow recruiting targeted at minorities?MR. KOLBO: I don't see the constitutionalobjection with that, Your Honor.QUESTION: Fine. If you can use race as acriterion for spending money, I take it one argument onthe other side, which I'd like you to address, is that welive in a world where more than than half of all theminority -- really percent of black students below thecollege level are at schools that are more than percentminority. And percent of those schools are in areas ofpoverty.And many among other things that they tell us onthe other side is that many people feel in the schools,the universities, that the way -- the only way to breakthis cycle is to have a leadership that is diverse. Andto have a leadership across the country that is diverse,you have to train a diverse student body for law, for themilitary, for business, for all the other positions inthis country that will allow us to have a diverseleadership in a country that is diverse.Now, you're familiar with that argument. But ifit is reasonable to use race as a criterion, as a plus forspending money, why isn't it also reasonable to use it asa plus to see that -- to obtain that set of objectivesthat I've tried to summarize in a second that you're very familiar with.MR. KOLBO: Because very simply, Justice Breyer,the Constitution provides the right of -- individuals withthe right of equal protection. And by discriminating onthe basis of race at a point of competition, innocentindividuals are being injured in their constitutionalrights. That's the distinction between that and simplytrying to cast a wider net, recruiting spending money onoutreach efforts, a very principal line it seems to me canbe drawn between those two things.QUESTION: The reason that the injury is moresevere to the white person who doesn't get in when thatwhite person doesn't get in because she's not an athleteor he's not a -- he's not a alumnus or he's not any of theother things that fits within these other criteria? Whatis the difference there is?MR. KOLBO: The difference is the EqualProtection Clause, Your Honor. It does not apply toalumni preferences in scholarships. It applies to race.QUESTION: That's the legal conclusion. But thereason if I thought, for example, that there is adifference under the Equal Protection Clause, between asystem that says to the discriminated-against people, thelaw does not respect you, and a system that says the lawdoes respect you, but we are trying to help some others, suppose I thought that that is a sound legal distinctionas reflected in this Court's cases, you would reply that?MR. KOLBO: Sound and reasonable, Your Honor, isnot enough when it comes to race. It must be a compellingpurpose. And that is the difference. There are manypolicy choices a university can make that I may disagreeor agree with, and that I have no legal standing or noclient has a legal standing to challenge, because theydon't implicate important constitutional rights. There issomething special about race in this country. It's why wehave a Constitution about it. It's why we have aconstitutional amendment about it.QUESTION: Why -- why do you draw the line at --you said you can recruit -- you can use a race criterion,if I understood you correctly, to recruit, you could have minority students only given the benefit of scholarshipsto go to these preparatory schools. You were surelyrecognizing the race criterion there. Why is thatpermissible?MR. KOLBO: Because it doesn't prevent someonefrom applying. The key is to be able to compete on thesame footing at the point of competition.QUESTION: These preparatory schools -- do youconcede that they're only for minority students? I'mfamiliar with those preparatory schools, familiar or not? MR. KOLBO: Certainly not --QUESTION: The majority of the people thatattend them are young men and women who really want to getinto the service academies, but don't have the grades forit. And the service academy tells them whether they'reblack, white or anything else, go to these preparatoryschools and you'll have a better chance next time around.MR. KOLBO: That --QUESTION: It isn't just for minorities.MR. KOLBO: They're not, Your Honor. They areopen to -- accessible to all.QUESTION: I was asking you about your answer tothe question, not -- the fact may very well be, but Ithought you had answered the question, yes, you could havespecial preparation for minorities only, yes, you could have recruitment for minorities only. I thought that thatwas your answer.MR. KOLBO: I believe you can -- as part of abroad program, I believe you could. You could seekoutreach for minority students, because it's very simpleit seems to me to draw a principal distinction betweenoutreach, casting a wider net and applying the samestandard at the point of -- at the point of competition.QUESTION: Including at the point of giving thebenefit of going to one of these preparatory schools. You wouldn't allow one of these preparatory schools to be forminority only, would you?MR. KOLBO: No, of course not, Your Honor. AndI'm not suggesting that outreach would be limited tominorities only. I'm just suggesting that -- I don'tunderstand why there would be a constitutional objectionto trying to cast a wider net by focusing as part of abroader effort of outreach in recruiting minority studentsand it can be quite -- it's quite easy to draw the linebetween that and -- and the point of competition.QUESTION: May I ask --QUESTION: If you're right -- if you're rightabout what equal protection requires and we have also twostatutes that incorporate the equal protection principle,then there could be no affirmative action, I take it, in employment?MR. KOLBO: There could be, Your Honor, toremedy past identified discrimination, but not to exceeddiversity and there is not today as I understand it anycompelling interest in the employment context with respectto --QUESTION: So, for example, if we have a prisonthat was largely minority population and the state wantedto give a preference so that it would have a critical massof correction officers of the minority race, that would be impermissible?MR. KOLBO: It would be impermissible, YourHonor, unless based upon a compelling interest and theonly one that has been recognized in the employmentcontext is identified discrimination. And I don't seethat in your hypothetical.QUESTION: No, it's not in my hypothetical.MR. KOLBO: Mr. Chief Justice.QUESTION: Can I ask you one question about theextent of your position? There's a brief applied, I thinkit's by the Potawatomi tribe. If Michigan had made -- thegovernor of Michigan many years ago had made a commitmentto an Indian tribe to allow three persons into theUniversity of Michigan every year, three tribemen, andnothing else, would that be constitutionally permissible? MR. KOLBO: I don't believe so Your Honor.Again, it's a distinction drawn on the basis of race.QUESTION: Or just one, still would be a -- thatwould exclude an impermissible number of slots for --MR. KOLBO: If it's slots on the basis of race,Your Honor. And if there are no further questions, if Imay reserve the balance of my time, Mr. Chief Justice.QUESTION: Very well, Mr. Kolbo. General Olson, we'll hear from you.ON BEHALF OF THE UNITED STATES, AS AMICUS CURIAE, IN SUPPORT OF THE PETITIONERGENERAL OLSON: Mr. Chief Justice and may itplease the Court:The Michigan law school admissions program failsevery test this Court has articulated for evaluatinggovernmental racial preferences.First, it is --QUESTION: General Olson, just let me get aquestion out and you answer it at your convenience. I'dlike you to comment on Carter Phyllip's brief. What isyour view of the strength of that argument?GENERAL OLSON: Well, I'm not sure --QUESTION: That's the one about the generals andabout the military academies.GENERAL OLSON: I understand -- the -- ourposition with respect to that is we respect the opinionsof those individuals, but the position of the UnitedStates is that we do not accept the proposition that blacksoldiers will only fight for -- black officers or thereverse that race neutral means should be used in theacademies as well as other places.And that to the extent that there's anydifference in analysis, the Court might consider itsposition, the position it articulated in connection with the military in Rostker v. Goldberg. But our positionwith respect to that brief is that --QUESTION: Your suggestion is that the militaryhas broader latitude than the private university?GENERAL OLSON: No, I'm suggesting that --QUESTION: Well, you're pointing to Rostkersuggests that.GENERAL OLSON: Yes, I'm suggesting that theCourt will want to look at each of these individualsituations according to the circumstances and that may bea factor in that context. But I started my answer,Justice Stevens, by saying you do not accept theproposition that race neutral means should not be used andemployed fully to -- to make sure that the academies areaccessible and open and -- and offer opportunities for as many people as possible.QUESTION: But you recognize, General Olson,that here and now, all of the military academies do haverace preference programs in admissions?GENERAL OLSON: The Coast Guard does not. It'sprohibited by Congress from doing so. I do acknowledge,Justice Ginsburg that the other academies are doing so. It's the position of the United States --QUESTION: Is that that's illegal what they'redoing? GENERAL OLSON: Pardon me?QUESTION: Is it -- that it is illegal, aviolation of the Constitution?GENERAL OLSON: We haven't examined that and wehaven't presented a brief with respect to the specifics ofeach individual academy. And we would want to take intoconsideration any potential impact suggested by the Courtin the Rostker case.QUESTION: What do you -- what do you think isthe -- is the principal race neutral means, that theacademy should use?GENERAL OLSON: Well --QUESTION: Without criticizing necessarily whatthey're doing now, what would be the -- in your judgment,the best race neutral way for them to go about reaching your objective?GENERAL OLSON: Well, there are a variety ofrace neutral means and narrowly tailored methods by whichacademies and universities can reach out to people of allbackgrounds to make sure that they've eliminated --QUESTION: No, no. I realize your position. But specifically, which -- which of the race neutralsuggestions that have been considered do you think wouldbe, you know, most adaptable to the academy situation?MR. KOLBO: Widespread recruiting, making sure that there's opportunities for education and advancementin the -- in the academies.QUESTION: Recruiting with an objective ofminority students?GENERAL OLSON: Not limited, a race neutralsystem of broad scale recruiting that this Court hasalways supported the proposition that efforts may be madeby governmental institutions to eliminate barriers thathave existed where artificial barriers --QUESTION: Okay. But my question is, if theydon't do it with a racial objective, how does therecruiting respond to the position taken in -- in Mr.Phillips's brief that without the kind of -- of racialweighting and admissions that is given now, they simplywill not reach a -- a -- a substantial number of -- or be able to attain a substantial number of minority slots inthe class?GENERAL OLSON: That is the opinion of certainindividuals. It is -- we do not accept that conclusionbased upon those opinions. And this Court has repeatedlyheld that race neutral means must be demonstrated and willbe accepted, and will not -- and the Court will not acceptthe proposition that race neutral means will not besuccessful unless they've been attempted and demonstrated. These -- this program at the University of Michigan Law School fails every one of the Court's tests. First, it'sa thinly disguised quota which sets aside a significantportion of each year's entering class for preferred ethnicgroups.Secondly, it overtly employs stigmatizing anddivisive racial stereotypes, what the law school callsdiversity-relevant characteristics. It identifies personsby diversity-relevant characteristics.QUESTION: Well, what they do is they use race.GENERAL OLSON: Exactly.QUESTION: I know. But they have a reason forit. The reason for it is they want to produce a diverseclass and the reason they want to do that, using it as aplus, they say, is to do the things I said before. Theythink it breaks down stereotypes within the class. Theythink it's educationally beneficial. They think itsupplies a legal profession that will be diverse and theythink a legal profession like business and the militarythat is diverse is good for America from a civics point ofview, et cetera, breaks the cycle. Those are thearguments which you well know.So what is your response?GENERAL OLSON: Well, a response to those manyarguments is that they've -- they're using stereotypes toin an effort, they say to break down stereotypes, they're using race as a -- a surrogate for experience. And ifthey want to look at experience, they can look atexperience. If they want to improve the educationalopportunities of minority groups, one of the biggestproblems --QUESTION: That's not what they say. They saythey're not using race as a surrogate for anything,because if you have a person who went to Exeter who's veryrich and happens to be black and is a conservativeRepublican, it's great for the class to know that, too. And that's why they want a certain number.GENERAL OLSON: But that person -- that personif he went to Exeter and he has a great GPA and so forthgets an extra opportunity either a portion of the class isset aside for that individual solely on the basis of race, irrespective of his experience. And the -- and theapplication isn't examined for the type of experience orthe type of viewpoint that race-diversity characteristicis used as a substitute for any examination of theindividual on the individual.QUESTION: General Olson, do you -- do you agreewith the articulated proposal of Justice Powell in theBakke case of using race as a plus factor as he -- as hesaw the use of it. Do you disagree with that approach?GENERAL OLSON: We disagree with that approach in the sense that we -- we -- in the first place, contraryto what our opponents have said, we would not believe thatthat single opinion, which was the only opinion, toexamine the issue of diversity under a compelling argument--QUESTION: I don't think it commanded a court. I'm just asking if you agreed with that approach.GENERAL OLSON: We're reluctant to say never,Justice O'Connor. But this test -- every test thatJustice Powell applied in that opinion, the law schoolprogram here fails. It's a stereotype.QUESTION: But General Olson, is race differentfrom sex in that regard? I thought we have -- we havedisapproved using sex as just a plus factor? That is onefactor among many, but, you know, when you get down to it, this is -- this person is a male and therefore we'll putthat into the mix and that'll favor the person. We'vedisapproved that with regard to sex discrimination,haven't we?GENERAL OLSON: I don't disagree with that.QUESTION: Why would race discrimination be anydifferent?GENERAL OLSON: I'm suggesting that the programshere, without getting to the point of whether are thereany other circumstances whether they be remedial, which this Court -- a factor of the Court has recognized before,or something else in an unusual situation, where it couldbe appropriate. I don't know what that might be. Butthis test --QUESTION: I think Santa Clara -- I think whatJustice Scalia said bears modification, because in fact inSanta Clara, the highway dispatcher, there was a plus forsex, although there was no proven discrimination againstthat particular woman and this Court approved that.GENERAL OLSON: I would also say that it'sconceivable if you're constructing -- the NationalInstitutes of Health is constructing this study ofdiseases that focus on particular races, the race may be afactor but the fact is that the law school program here,not only is a set aside and a quota, but it -- but it ----QUESTION: General Olson, I'm not sure youanswered Justice O'Connor's question.Do you agree with Justice Powell's suggestionthat race could be used as a plus in something like theHarvard program?GENERAL OLSON: No, the Harvard program A wasn'texamined according to to any compelling governmentalinterest. It was examined only --QUESTION: So your answer is no, you would not agree with that?GENERAL OLSON: We would not based upon any whatwe see in that opinion, which is --QUESTION: Would you disagree with his use ofthe term diversity as being a permissible governmentalgoal?GENERAL OLSON: Well, the only way to answerthat Justice Kennedy is that the word diversity means somany things to so many different people. It means both ameans to get experience and a diversity of experience. Italso means, I think what the law school has done, it's anend in and of itself. If it's an end in and of itself,obviously it's constitutionally objectable that this Court--QUESTION: So is the Texas plan constitutional? If it's designed solely in order to have a diverse mix inthe colleges they take percent, but their motive statedand their purpose is to have diversity in the college?GENERAL OLSON: Justice Breyer, I don't believethat that is the stated motive of the Texas plan or theCalifornia or the Florida plan. Those are intended toopen up those institutions to a broader selection, one ofthe ways in which this Court has accepted the institutionsuch as universities may operate is to make sure thatbarriers are broken down, accessibility is made more available and that is one very race neutral means ofaccomplishing that legitimate objective.QUESTION: General, what do you say to theargument that the only reason accomplishes it is becauseit depends on segregation at the lower level of theschools, otherwise it would not accomplish that?GENERAL OLSON: No, there is no evidence that itdepends upon segregation of the schools in Texas or in anyother place.It is a diverse selection of the high schools inthat state.QUESTION: Thank you, General Olson.Ms. Mahoney, we'll hear from you.ORAL ARGUMENT OF MAUREEN MAHONEYON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTSMS. MAHONEY: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court:The Solicitor General acknowledges thatdiversity may be a compelling interest but contends thatthe University of Michigan Law School can achieve adiverse student body through facially race neutral means.His argument ignores the record in this case.QUESTION: I'm not sure -- in his brief does heacknowledge that can be a compelling interest?MS. MAHONEY: The brief says that it is one of the paramount interests of government to have diversity inhigher education. And it has certainly been theconsistent position of the Department of Education for thepast years that Bakke is the governing standard, thatschools are encouraged to use programs to achievediversity, because of the important interests it servesfor students of all color.QUESTION: Ms. Mahoney, supposing that after ourBakke decision came down, whereas Cal. Davis set aside seats for disadvantaged minorities, and Cal. Davis saidwe're going to try to get those seats in some otherway, we're going to try high school graduates, we're goingto try socioeconomic and none of the -- none of thosemethods get the seats that they want.Can they then go back and say we've tried everything, now we're entitled to set aside seats?MS. MAHONEY: I don't think so, Your Honor. Ithink what the Court's judgment in Bakke said andcertainly what Justice Powell's opinion said is that it'ssimply not necessary to do a set aside because a plan likethe Harvard plan, which takes race into account as onefactor can be used as an effective means to --QUESTION: But my hypothesis was, they wanted seats and that plan just won't give it to them?MS. MAHONEY: Well, if -- if the program was designed to have a fixed seats, no matter what thequalifications of the applicant pool, no matter what thedisparities between the minority and majority studentswould be, then I think it's fair to say that that would bea quota.If that is the nature of the program. But herethe record indicates that the -- the law school's programis nothing of the kind.That what has occurred over the years with thisprogram is that there have been offers that have rangedfrom to over the course of eight years there havebeen enrollments that went from to . It has been avery flexible program.QUESTION: Ms. Mahoney, I -- I find it hard totake seriously the State of Michigan's contention that racial diversity is a compelling State interest,compelling enough to warrant ignoring the Constitution'sprohibition of discrimination on the basis of race.The reason I say that is that the problem is aproblem of Michigan's own creation, that is to say, it hasdecided to create an elite law school, it is one of thebest law schools in the country. And there are few Statelaw schools that -- that get to that level.Now, it's done this by taking only the beststudents with the best grades and the best SATs or LSATs knowing that the result of this will be to exclude to alarge degree minorities.It is -- it's not unconstitutional to do that,because it's -- that's not -- not the purpose of whatMichigan did, but it is the predictable result. Nonetheless, Michigan says we want an elite law school.Now, having created this situation by makingthat decision, it then turns around and says, oh, we havea compelling State interest in eliminating this racialimbalance that we ourselves have created.Now, if Michigan really cares enough about thatracial imbalance, why doesn't it do as many other Statelaw schools do, lower the standards, not have a flagshipelite law school, it solves the problem.MS. MAHONEY: Your Honor, I don't think there's anything in this Court's cases that suggests that the lawschool has to make an election between academic excellenceand racial diversity. The interest here is having a --QUESTION: If it claims it's a compelling Stateinterest. If it's important enough to override theConstitution's prohibition of racial discrimination, itseems to me it's important enough to override Michigan'sdesire to have a super-duper law school?MS. MAHONEY: Your Honor, the question isn'twhether it's important to override the prohibition on discrimination. It's whether this is discrimination.Michigan -- what Michigan is doing benefits --QUESTION: No, no. No. The question is whetheror not there is a compelling interest that allows race tobe used.MS. MAHONEY: That's correct, Your Honor.QUESTION: And Justice Scalia's question isdesigned to put to you the fact that this isn't acompelling interest, because it's a choice that theMichigan law school has made to be like this.MS. MAHONEY: Your Honor, the issue is whetherit is sufficiently compelling to allow Michigan to takerace into account in this limited fashion in order toprovide a much better education for students of all races. The benefits are race neutral, Your Honor, and the burdens are really quite limited.What we're talking about here --QUESTION: But the question put to you isMichigan has designed its school in a particular way andit doesn't have to do that.MS. MAHONEY: But Your Honor there is acompelling interest in having an institution that is bothacademically excellent and richly diverse, because ourleaders need to be trained in institutions that areexcellent, that are superior academically, but they also need to be trained with exposure to the viewpoints, to theprospectives, to the experiences of individuals fromdiverse backgrounds.QUESTION: But -- but that brings us to thequestion of the use of race, which is being used here.Let me ask you this: Suppose there's areasonable disagreement as to whether or not the so-calledcritical mass is, in fact, a disguised quota, you wouldsay it is not. Suppose there's a reasonable disagreementon that point, if that's so, you lose, is that notcorrect.MS. MAHONEY: No, Your Honor, because thedistrict court did not make any factual findings thatwould support the conclusion that this is a disguisedquota.QUESTION: Is it beyond this Court's capacity tosay that? It certainly at a minimum a mixed question oflaw and fact. You're arguing here that it isn't. I'mcertainly -- at least open the possibility that we candisagree with you.MS. MAHONEY: Well, Your Honor, the -- there hasto be evidence in the record that would support theconclusion that it's a quota. And what this Court hassaid that means is a fixed number -- that is sufficientlyrigid that no matter what the qualifications of the applicant pool, the law school is going to adhere to afixed minimum and I think it's important to say what thejudge found on this issue, at A of the position ofappendix, the judge says in conclusion, the Court findsthat the law school wants, to percent of each classto consist of African Americans, Native Americans andHispanics. Wants. That's an aspiration.QUESTION: It says wants or wants Maureen?MS. MAHONEY: Wants. Wants.QUESTION: Wants. Okay.MS. MAHONEY: Wants, Your Honor. That's anaspiration, that is not a fixed minimum. He made nofindings that there was a fixed minimum.QUESTION: Is there in fact a difference betweenthe Michigan plan and the Harvard plan that the Harvard plan is tauted in Bakke, it seems to me, that they werepretty close and is there any suggestion that Michigan islooking for critical mass that Harvard didn't look for?MS. MAHONEY: Absolutely not, Your Honor. Theevidence indicates that the Harvard plan works in exactlythe way the Michigan plan does. In fact, Harvard's briefin this case indicates that under their plan over the lastfour years, they enrolled eight to percent AfricanAmericans which is a stable range. In the last four yearsof the record evidence here, the University of Michigan Law School enrolled to percent African Americans.QUESTION: Excuse me. Did Bakke hold that theHarvard plan was constitutional?MS. MAHONEY: Yes, Your Honor.QUESTION: If adopted by -- by a Stateinstitution?MS. MAHONEY: Yes, Your Honor.QUESTION: It held that it was constitutional?MS. MAHONEY: Yes. What we --QUESTION: We didn't even -- we didn't even havethe details of the Harvard plan before us?MS. MAHONEY: Your Honor, in fact, the Courtappended -- or Justice Powell appended the Harvard plan tohis opinion in this case and there were five votes thatthe reason that the mandate of the California Supreme Court should be reversed was because there was aneffective alternative for -- for enrolling minorities andthat effective alternative was a plan like the Harvardplan.And the -- the dissenting --QUESTION: Did -- did the Court know what --what social scientists have later pointed out and manypeople knew before it that when the Harvard plan wasoriginally adopted, its purpose was to achieve diversityby reducing the number of Jewish students from New York that were -- that were -- that were getting into Harvardon the basis of merit alone?MS. MAHONEY: Your Honor, I don't think that was--case?QUESTION: Did that come up in the course of theMS. MAHONEY: Your Honor, I don't think that'sthe purpose of the Harvard plan that was attached.QUESTION: Not today, I'm sure. But -- but --but that was its origin.MS. MAHONEY: Your Honor, there is -- there iscertainly a major difference between an educational policythat is motivated by an intent to exclude people based onracial animus and one like the Law School's policy and theHarvard plan, which is designed to include students of all races, so that the education of all students will beenriched as a result.QUESTION: But not too many of any race?MS. MAHONEY: Well, Your Honor --QUESTION: Or not too many of any religion, Iassume?MS. MAHONEY: Your Honor it is not a question ofnot too many. It's that the law school has attempted totake race into account in a very modest limited fashion,no more than necessary to achieve the goal of trying to have sufficient numbers of minorities that there can be anexcellent educational experience for everyone.QUESTION: But -- but without a quota? Justsufficient numbers, but that's not a quota?MS. MAHONEY: Your Honor it is not a quota.QUESTION: When you say sufficient numbers,you're -- I mean that suggests to me that there is --there is some minimum. Now, you don't name it. But therehas to be some minimum. But you say there isn't aminimum?MS. MAHONEY: Your Honor there is not a minimum.QUESTION: Well, then you have to eliminate theword sufficient.MS. MAHONEY: Your Honor, it -- it can berelated to numbers without being a quota. In fact, the Department of Education in after Bakke came out,issued a policy interpretation at Federal register which specifically says authorizes schools toestablish and pursue numerical goals, end quote, as longas they don't set aside a fixed number of places or makerace the sole criterion for eligibility. That was theDepartment of Education's interpretation.QUESTION: Certainly they don't interpret theConstitution?MS. MAHONEY: No, they don't Your Honor, but that is what Bakke held. That was -- that was the -- whatwas at issue in that case, that that was the differencebetween the program that U C Davis had used and theprogram that was at issue in the Harvard plan.QUESTION: Is it fair to say that the -- whatthe -- what -- what Justice Powell and the five who agreedor the four who agreed on the Harvard plan were getting atwas that there is a permissible zone between a purelytoken number and a quota or a set aside and you can shootfor something in that zone? Is that a fair --MS. MAHONEY: Absolutely Your Honor. WhatJustice Powell's opinion says when paraphrasing theHarvard plan is that there needs to be an awareness of thenecessity for more than token numbers. And that's becausethe educational benefits of diversity can't be achieved. QUESTION: It's hard to see that that's --that's true here, when every day the admission staff looksto see what the numbers are based on race?MS. MAHONEY: Your Honor, that's not correct. The -- there is a report which is called The Daily. Butit is not looked at everyday. The evidence was clear thatit is simply something that can be printed out.QUESTION: You just have a daily report thatthey look at once a week?MS. MAHONEY: Your Honor, the reason it's called a daily is that it is a running database that allows forthe report to be printed at any time.And -- and the evidence indicated that --QUESTION: To show how well they're doing ingetting the so-called critical mass which is just asynonym for a number?MS. MAHONEY: Your Honor, the dailies actuallytrack a whole variety of admissions information includingdeposits, they're trying to see how they're doing in termsof whether --QUESTION: They -- they don't track, as Iunderstand it, the other pluses that the University talksabout?MS. MAHONEY: Well, they track -- they trackresidency, they track gender, they don't track, for instance, socioeconomic status which is a plus or, infact, the evidence is uncontradicted that the Universitytakes any racial background, any ethnic background, anyunusual characteristic that would add to the diversity ofthe class into account, but it doesn't find a need totrack that, because of the nature of the applicant pool.QUESTION: Is two percent a critical mass, Ms.Mahoney?MS. MAHONEY: I don't think so, Your Honor.QUESTION: Okay. Four percent? MS. MAHONEY: No, Your Honor, what --QUESTION: You have to pick some number, don'tyou?MS. MAHONEY: Well, actually what --QUESTION: Like eight, is eight percent?MS. MAHONEY: Now, Your Honor.QUESTION: Now, does it stop being a quotabecause it's somewhere between and , but it is a quotaif it's ? I don't understand that reasoning. Once youuse the term critical mass and -- you're -- you're intoquota land?MS. MAHONEY: Your Honor, what a quota is underthis Court's cases is a fixed number. And there is nofixed number here. The testimony was that it depends onthe characteristics of the applicant pool.QUESTION: As long as you say between and ,you're okay? Is that it? If you said it's bad you butbetween and it's okay, because it's not a fixednumber? Is that -- that's what you think the Constitutionis?MS. MAHONEY: No, Your Honor, if it was a fixedrange that said that it will be a minimum of percent,come hell or high water, no matter what the qualificationsof these applicants look like, no matter what it is thatthe majority applicants could contribute to the benefits of diversity, then certainly that would be a quota, butthat is not what occurred here. And in fact the testimonywas undisputed, that this was not intended to be a fixedgoal.QUESTION: Ms. Mahoney may I shift focus awayfrom this to another point before you're finished, that Iam concerned about. In all programs which this Court hasupheld in the area of -- you want to label it affirmativeaction, there's been a fixed time period within which itwould operate. You could see at the end -- an end to it,there is none in this, is there? How do we deal with thataspect?MS. MAHONEY: What the policy says, of course,is that it will only take race into account as long as itis necessary in order to achieve the educational objectives.I don't think that this Court should concludethat this is permanent, because there are two things thatcan happen that will make this come to an end. The firstis that the number of high-achieving minorities willcontinue to grow and that law school will be able toenroll a sufficient number to have a critical mass ormeaningful numbers or substantial presence without havingto take race into account.The second thing that can happen, Your Honor, is that we could reach a point in our society where theexperience of being a minority did not make such afundamental difference in their lives, where race didn'tmatter so much that it's truly salient to the law school'seducational mission.While that I can't say when that will happen, wecertainly know that as a nation, we have made tremendousprogress in overcoming intolerance. And we certainlyshould expect that that will occur with respect tominorities.QUESTION: We approved any other affirmativeaction program with such a vague distant termination base?MS. MAHONEY: Well, in Bakke itself, Your Honor. In Bakke itself, there were five votes to allow theUniversity of California Davis to use a plan modeled on the Harvard plan. It's been in effect for about years. It has reaped extraordinary benefits for this country'seducational system.And I think it's far too soon for this Court toinclude that --QUESTION: Can -- can we tell from thestatistics whether things have been improved say, more andmore minorities are getting in on their own to theUniversity of Michigan Law School without the quotas?MS. MAHONEY: Yes. QUESTION: Or whether --MS. MAHONEY: Yes, they're not quotas, YourHonor.QUESTION: The critical mass?MS. MAHONEY: We do know -- aspirations --QUESTION: Aspirations.MS. MAHONEY: -- but we do know Your Honor thatthere has been improvement, in fact, Justice Powell citedto a study, it was done by Manning it's in footnote ofJustice Powell's opinion and it gives the number ofminorities who had achieved a and a . on the LSAT.QUESTION: How about say the last years, atthe University of Michigan, which wasn't being underconsideration which Justice Powell's opinion?MS. MAHONEY: I think the answer would be that we do know that in when there was a race-blindpolicy, there were no blacks admitted, and under arace-blind policy today, probably six blacks would beadmitted without consideration of race.So there has not been enough progress to allowfor meaningful numbers at this point, but there has beenprogress.QUESTION: Do we know what's happened in the lawschools in California since it was determined by State lawaffirmative action? MS. MAHONEY: Yes, Your Honor. We know that forthe first -- I think, or years, both only enrolledabout -- between I think zero and African-Americanstudents. They do better on Hispanics because of thedemographics of that State, where it's virtually percent Hispanic at the college-age level. But what wehave learned is that in the -- they changed their program years ago and this fall they succeeded in enrolling African-American students, but what we know from talkingto the law school admissions counsel with Boalt'spermission is that the African-Americans who were enrolledunder that program have a point LSAT score gap from thewhites who have been enrolled, so the same gap --QUESTION: Well, there are other law schools inCalifornia, too, are there not?MS. MAHONEY: Yes, UCLA, well, this is mainly aproblem Your Honor for the highly selective schoolsbecause of the nature of the pool.QUESTION: You have some good law schools, youhave UCLA, you have USC?MS. MAHONEY: UCLA.QUESTION: SC is private?MS. MAHONEY: Yes.QUESTION: But UCLA?MR. KOLBO: UCLA -- UCLA had -- the class that's graduatiing this year, for instance, I believe had fiveblacks in it. So I believe last fall they did better andwe have been told that that's because they were able torecruit some additional numbers of black students becauseof a special critical race studies program they'reoffering but that's not a solution to the pool problem,Your Honor.The pool problem is that if we look at theranges of LSATs where the University of Michigan takes itsstudents, there are literally about in the entirecountry, three or four per top schools.So some kind of, you know, race-consciousrecruiting that schools are using doesn't solve thatproblem.And if I could go back to Boalt for just another minute, because that is something that the petitionersraised in their reply brief, is that given that we knowthat they have exactly the same nine-point LSAT gap thatMichigan gets under its program, there is no reason tothink that what they are doing would satisfy thepetitioner's conception of the Equal Protection Clause.QUESTION: That's difficult when it's not in therecord.I do have one more question on this quota point.I don't think the answer that you gave to Justice Scalia was in -- in all respects complete. Yousaid well, if -- if there were a program that no matterwhat you used a somewhat different phrase, no matter what,there would be people taken regardless of qualifications-- that would be a quota.Suppose the pool is large enough so that you canfind minorities to fill your percent aspiration. Whyisn't that a quota even if they're qualified?MS. MAHONEY: Because, Your Honor I think --QUESTION: It seems to me that that was a -- areally a false -- or an improper qualification that yougave to your answer?MS. MAHONEY: I don't think so, Your Honor.Because I think -- certainly if it's a fixed number thatyou're going to take no matter what, then that is a quota, but I think the difference between a quota and a goal isthe flexibility.And what this Court, for instance, said inJohnson when talking about, they authorized the use of agoal and they said that the line between a goal and aquota is in fact whether or not you have to automaticallyand blindly promote people in order to meet the goal orwhether it is a factor that is taken into account andthat's exactly what occurs here.QUESTION: How does the University determine from one year to the next, you say some years it'll comeout eight percent, some year nine percent, do they make aconscious decision?MS. MAHONEY: No, Your Honor, the evidence shows--QUESTION: Just toss a coin?MS. MAHONEY: No, it's not tossing a coin, butit is not a fixed number. What they do is, they look --it's responsive to the applicant pool. They look at theapplicants, they are looking at a variety of factors on aholistic basis and they find the applicants that theythink are going to bring the most in toto to the lawschool class, but it is not measured against a specificnumerical target. And the district court did not findotherwise.It is simply looking at that pool and whatMichigan is --QUESTION: Ms. Mahoney, do you know any quotaprogram that would take somebody to fill the quota nomatter what? All the quota programs I know start off bysaying we will only take qualified applicants, but thensetting the level of qualified low enough that they canfill the quota. I don't know any program that said nomatter what we're going to fill this quota.MS. MAHONEY: Your Honor -- QUESTION: To establish that kind of a standardfor quota is -- is to -- is to just eliminate the -- thewhole purpose of -- of that aspect of our law.MS. MAHONEY: Actually, Your Honor, the way thatin Bakke it worked, it wasn't the situation that theywould take someone no matter what, but they did have arule, that you could not be considered for the spaces thathad been set aside if you were white. And so it works in avery different way, Your Honor.There -- Bakke applied, there were four spacesavailable in the special admissions program, but hecouldn't be considered for them, because of his race.That doesn't happen at the University ofMichigan. When someone applies, whether they're white, itdoesn't matter how many minorities have been accepted or rejected. They are considered on their merits just likeevery other applicant. That's the defining differencebetween what happened in the UC Davis program.QUESTION: But they aren't just like everyapplicant. Some applicants are given a preference becauseof their race.MS. MAHONEY: Your Honor, they are given extraweight in the process, because they have something unusualand important to bring to the class. That's what every --that's the way every applicant is considered and -- QUESTION: Which you say automatically followsfrom race?MS. MAHONEY: Your Honor, they also write essaysabout diversity. Every applicant is given the chance towrite an essay about diversity. The law school does --QUESTION: Ms. Mahoney, how does the Michiganplan differ or the Harvard plan, for that matter, fromwhat was familiar, that is, highly selected schools willreject a certain number of people, take a number of peopleas automatic acceptance and in the large middle will say,well, we'll -- we'll take people because they'redifferent, because they play the bassoon, because theybelong to a minority race? Because in the days that whenI went to law school, they are female, because we want theclass to be diverse and so they used race, they used sex, they used --MS. MAHONEY: That's exactly what the Universityof Michigan Law School plan does. It looks at allpotential contributions to diversity. And what theevidence shows in this case is that it is common for whiteapplicants to be admitted with lower grades and testscores than even minorities who are rejected because --QUESTION: Does the Constitution prohibitdiscrimination against -- against oboe players as opposedto flute players? MS. MAHONEY: No, Your Honor.QUESTION: Does it prohibit discrimination onthe basis of alumna status?MS. MAHONEY: No, Your Honor.QUESTION: But it does prohibit disrimination onthe basis of race?MS. MAHONEY: But the question is whether thisis prohibited discrimination. And the answer that wewould ask this Court to give is that a minority applicantbrings something special. They are not similarly situatedto the white applicant who has the exact same grades andtest scores.QUESTION: Ms. Mahoney, may I ask you a questionthat is really prompted by Justice O'Connor's questionabout the terminal point in all of this? And we're all hoping some day race will be a totally irrelevant factorin all decisions. One of the arguments on the other sideof your case is that there's actually -- these programsactually generate racial hostility particularly on thepart of the excluded members. And that in turn delays theultimate day we are all hoping for.What is your comment about that?MS. MAHONEY: The record certainly does notsupport that inference under this program. And the reasonis this: The program -- one of the ways to prevent that from happening is to have a narrowly tailored program tohave very limited consideration of race and not to, forinstance, have two great a disparity between thequalifications of the white students who are admitted andthe minority students who are admitted under the program. Here it's actually quite limited. In fact, you know, thevast -- the most -- the most of the minorities who areadmitted are in the top percent of all LSAT takers inthe country. So we're talking about a really exceptionalgroup of students.By keeping the relative qualifications fairlyclose, like that, you really minimize the potential forany kind of stigmatizing or hostility, that sort of thing.And what the record shows is that in the Orfieldstudy which was done of Harvard and University of Michigan's students, it's in the record at Exhibit ,that there is overwhelming support by the students atHarvard and Michigan Law Schools for maintaining thediversity program, because they regard it as so positive. That's --QUESTION: Sure, they're in already.MS. MAHONEY: Your Honor that's for the --QUESTION: The people you want to talk to arethe high school seniors who have seen -- who have seenpeople visibly less qualified than they are get into prestigious institutions where they are rejected. If youthink that is not creating resentment, you are just wrong.MS. MAHONEY: Well, Your Honor, certainly theminorities who have been admitted under the program arenot feeling stigmatized by it. If they continue tosupport the program in the ways that they do. Inaddition, the whites who are seeing their performance inthe class and who are confirming that they find it highlybeneficial to have the -- the chance to share theexperiences of the minority students when they arelearning about the law, has to be given substantial weightin considering whether this is somehow stigmatizing orperpetuating historic stereotypes, which is really thetest that this Court used in VMI to determine whether ornot something really should be condemned because of its potential to stigmatize.QUESTION: If Justice Powell's opinion in Bakkecan be viewed as, yes, you can use race as a plus factor,where the program is not against anyone, but you cannot gotoo far, and it says individualized consideration isnecessary there, what in your opinion would be going toofar, other than quotas? How would this be maintainedwithin limits?MS. MAHONEY: I think there are really threethings other than a quota to look for. The first is whether there is flexible consideration of the diversitycontributions of every potential student, which Michiganprogram clearly satisfies, whether the minorities who arebeing admitted are well qualified, because you don't wantto have a situation where they can't contribute to theclass and can't succeed, and the third is the degree ofthe burden on the rejected applicants, that's certainlyrelevant under any narrow tier learning program. Andhere, what the record tells us is that percent of allthe admissions decisions that are made each year are notaffected by the consideration of race.That the chance -- that there are about students who are rejected each year probably only ofthem would have been -- would have gotten an offer ofadmission from Michigan under a race-blind system. That is a very small and diffuse burden. It'snot one to be minimized. It's certainly something thatthe Court has to pay attention to, but this is extremelylimited in scope and relative to the benefits to studentsof all races and to our Nation. It has to be weighed inthe balance and this Court certainly should conclude thatthe interests that are being served, the legitimateinterests that are being served are sufficientlycompelling to allow this kind of limited consideration ofrace. QUESTION: Do we know what would be the increaseof the named Plaintiffs, the increase in their chance ofadmission, were there no affirmative action programs?MS. MAHONEY: I don't know what the increase forthe -- for Barbara Grutter would have been, for instance,we do know that across the class, it would have beenapproximately percent.One might say that that could vary, you know, byindividual. The record evidence would indicate, however,that Barbara Grutter would not have been admitted under arace-blind program, although that issue has not beenlitigated to conclusion.QUESTION: I don't know any other area where we-- where we decide the case by saying well, there are veryfew people who are being treated unconstitutionally. I mean, if this indeed is an unconstitutionaltreatment of -- of this woman, because of her race,surely, it doesn't make any difference whether she is oneof very few who have been treated unconstitutionally.QUESTION: I think you can regard that as astatement rather than a question.MS. MAHONEY: Thank you, Your Honor.CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: Mr. Kolbo, you havetwo minutes remaining.REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF KIRK KOLBO ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERTHE WITNESS: Thank you, if I may follow-up onthe last question.Counsel's answer to the last couple ofquestions, I think, really crystallizes the differencebetween their position and ours. The University ofMichigan sees this as a question of group rights. Thereare rights on the part of minorities. And there arerights -- there are rights on the part of whites andAsians and other -- other groups.We see it very differently. The Constitutionprotects the rights of individuals, not racial groups.The Bakke case opening up spaces in the classwhen that system was struck down meant that about ,students, , to , students who had previously been discriminated against now had an opportunity to competefor those seats.So it seems to me the question is not answeredby how many have been discriminated against.The question is whether in fact discriminationis occurring against the individual and it certainly is inthis particular case.Counsel was asked some questions about theopen-ended nature of the policy at issue here. And Ithink it's very critical that we understand that if the interests that they are asserting here to be compelling isupheld as compelling by this Court, we have in fact thefirst indefinite, ongoing, unlimited compelling interest.The Court previously has confined its analysisto remedying -- remedying identified discrimination. Aremedy based on societal discrimination or a role-modeltheory for example in Wygant. A couple of the reasonsthat the Court struck down those rationals was becausethey were so unlimited, so amorphus, indefinite withrespect to time.That certainly is the case with the interestthat is being urged here today.And it seems to me that that is -- it becomesvery clear in the University's argument that what they'vedone -- and they didn't argue so much this in the lower court, but they made it very clear that theirjustification for the preferences is based in effect onremedying societal discrimination.Their argument and their briefs and in thisCourt has been that when the day comes, someday and maybeit will come someday, we hope that it will, that somedaythat we will be able to stop using race for thesepurposes.And the opinion that accepted that rationale itseems to me would be a dramatic step backward from this Court's precedents which have rejected the notion thatsomething as amorphus as societal discrimination would besufficient.CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: Thank you Mr. Kolbo. The case is submitted. (Whereupon, at : a.m., the case in theabove-entitled matter was submitted.) 