 IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XOLYMPIC AIRWAYS, : Petitioner : v. : No. -RUBINA HUSAIN, : INDIVIDUALLY, AND AS : PERSONAL REPRESENTATIVE OF : THE ESTATE OF ABID M. HANSON, : DECEASED, ET AL. :- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -X Washington, D.C. Wednesday, November , The above-entitled matter came on for oralargument before the Supreme Court of the United States at: a.m.APPEARANCES:ANDREW J. HARAKAS, ESQ., New York, New York; on behalf of the Petitioner.H. BARTOW FARR, III, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf of the Respondents.BARBARA B. McDOWELL, ESQ., Assistant to the Solicitor General, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on behalf of the United States, as amicus curiae, supporting the Respondents. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. C O N T E N T SORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGEANDREW J. HARAKAS, ESQ. On behalf of the Petitioner H. BARTOW FARR, III, ESQ. On behalf of the Respondents BARBARA B. McDOWELL, ESQ. On behalf of the United States, as amicus curiae, supporting the Respondents REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OFANDREW J. HARAKAS, ESQ. On behalf of the Petitioner th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. P R O C E E D I N G S (: a.m.) CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: We'll hear argumentnext in No. -, Olympic Airways v. Rubina Husain. Mr. Harakas. Am I pronouncing your namecorrectly? ORAL ARGUMENT OF ANDREW J. HARAKAS ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER MR. HARAKAS: Yes, Your Honor. Mr. Chief Justice, and may it please the Court: Over years ago, the drafters of the WarsawConvention created a treaty which set forth thecircumstances under which air carrier liability should becreated in the event of passenger injury or death. Thelegal regime they created recognized there's circumstanceswhere the passenger should be entitled to a cause ofaction, but it also expressly recognized the need to limitthat liability and set forth certain conditions when thatlimited liability would apply. Article of the WarsawConvention creates a presumption of liability but onlywhen three conditions precedent are satisfied. One, there has to be an accident in which thepassenger suffers a bodily injury or dies and the accidenttook place on board the aircraft or during the course ofembarking or disembarking. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. The issue before the Court here today -- we'redealing with the accident condition precedent. Was thatsatisfied in this case? Of course, the -- the Court in Saks in specifically addressed the issue of what is an accident,and the Court defined an accident as an unusual andunexpected event that's external to the passenger. Of a particular importance to this case is wherethe Court declined to extend the accident and encompass aninjury that results from the passenger's own internalcondition and -- and in response to the normal andexpected operations of the aircraft. Thus, until recently, the courts have held thatinjuries arising out of the passenger's preexistingmedical conditions do not satisfy the accident conditionprecedent even if there were allegations of air carriernegligence. QUESTION: I take it you don't take the positionthat -- that, let's say, any death resulting in part as aresult of one, but not the only, cause of the preexistingconditions is thereby excluded from the -- the class ofliability. MR. HARAKAS: I think you have -- Justice -- QUESTION: Every -- in other words, having aheart condition does not immunize Olympic Airlines against th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. liability if somebody dies of a heart attack per se.You're not taking that position. MR. HARAKAS: Our position is that if somebodyis on board an aircraft and they die of a heart attack,that is -- that is not an -- that's a -- the passenger'sown internal reaction and it just happened to be -- thepassengers happened to be on board the aircraft. QUESTION: Sure, if -- if they're simply sittingin the seat and nothing unusual happens and they have aheart attack and die, sure, there's no liability. But ifthere are other conditions -- and the argument here isthat there are other conditions -- and the heart attackwas merely a contributing cause -- it was a condition uponwhich those other conditions acted -- that does not -- theexistence of the heart condition does not immunize OlympicAirlines against liability. That's -- I don't thinkthat's your argument, is it? MR. HARAKAS: Well, no. What the argument is --and in this case here, you have to look to what is theinjury-producing event? The injury-producing eventhere -- QUESTION: And -- and they say the injury-producing event is -- or one of the -- the analyses is theunexpected refusal of the airline personnel to allow thisindividual to get moved into a smoke-free zone. And that th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. unusual and unexpected event, combined with the smoke andthe heart condition, caused the death. But it was theunexpected refusal to remove from a smoke zone that is theunexpected event or occurrence that is the accident. Whatis your answer to that? MR. HARAKAS: I respectfully disagree with thecharacterization, which was adopted by the court below, inthat in this case you have to -- you -- you can't justsimply look to the fact that you had the flight attendantsaying we're not going to move you. He was assigned anon-smoking seat. He -- QUESTION: He was assigned a non-smoking seatwhich happened to be in a zone with smoke. MR. HARAKAS: Well, in -- on board any aircraft,when smoking is allowed, you have ambient cigarette smokethroughout the aircraft, and in this case you have to lookto -- it can't be disputed that this passenger reacted tothe cigarette smoke and the injury-producing eventindirect -- QUESTION: But less in -- less in row than inrow . MR. HARAKAS: That's -- that's correct, JusticeGinsburg. However, when you have -- when you -- in anyaircraft when you -- when they used to allow smoking onthe aircraft, as at this time, you could be rows away th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. and you would still be exposed to that ambient cigarettesmoke. But the point we have to look to is with respectto the Warsaw Convention is what type of liability didthey want to create. You know, when we get into issues ofstraying away from the direct cause -- because when welook to almost every single Warsaw Convention accidentcase, the focus has always been on what is that directinjury-producing event. When we start inserting commonlaw concepts of -- QUESTION: Well, you say direct, are -- are youtrying to make the -- the act omission distinction? MR. HARAKAS: Well, the act and -- in onerespect, but -- but in the broader sense, you have to lookto is what has always been the event the courts havelooked to, what did the drafters intend the event -- the-- the cause to be? It's not -- I don't think it's properto inject full-blown common law notions of proximatecausation. QUESTION: No -- no one is -- no one is makingthe common -- I don't think is making the common lawargument here. They're saying it was unexpected as amatter of fact that somebody who wanted a -- a smokelessseat, who found there was smoke in the area of the seatand who was asked to be moved, would be refused by the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. airline. That is the unexpected event. MR. HARAKAS: But -- but that's what courts havedone after the Supreme Court's decision here by the Courtin Tseng because at that time, before Tseng, courts usedto find that it didn't matter whether you had allegationsof true negligence because we do have to look to -- QUESTION: The -- the point is the allegationsare not of negligence, which is a legal and normativeconclusion. MR. HARAKAS: Yes. QUESTION: The allegation is simply, as a matterof fact, it is not to be expected that a stewardess wouldstand there and say, no, you can't move him. Whether itwas negligent or not negligent, it simply was unexpectedas a matter of fact, and they're saying that satisfies theunexpected event. MR. HARAKAS: I -- I disagree. I don't thinkthat satisfies the unexpected event. QUESTION: Well, it could and it is differentfrom ordinary negligence. I mean, it is conceivable atleast that to have an airline stewardess say no when thepolicy of the airline and the standard generally is to thecontrary and to say, no, I will not consider moving youeven though there were seats further away from the smokeorigin. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. MR. HARAKAS: I don't believe in the -- forpurposes of the article accident analysis, you -- you-- your -- you should or should be allowed or it's properto go beyond looking to asking what is that injury-producing event. In this instance here, we have to remember toothat, yes, there were three requests to be moved.However, the passenger himself never asked to be moved.It was always through his wife. He was a doctor. He knewhis own condition. I mean, we can all get into the wholereasonableness issue, but what happened -- QUESTION: Which -- which is a matter ofdefense. QUESTION: Yes. MR. HARAKAS: Yes, it's a matter of defense. QUESTION: But Justice O'Connor's question andmy question is -- is the question that goes to whether youget into court to defend. And you're -- you're giving usa -- an argument that, in effect, we weren't negligent. MR. HARAKAS: No. QUESTION: But our questions were wasn't itunexpected in fact that somebody would be in the positionthat this passenger was in. MR. HARAKAS: I don't -- well, I think that'swhere the courts below and where you get -- where you can th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. cross the lines and confuse the concepts of negligence andcausation in this case because here you could say was itunusual, unexpected for a -- for a -- when a passengermakes a request to be moved. In a certain sense, yes, youcould say that it was -- it could unusual, unexpected, butI think you have to come back to is but is that theinjury-producing event. And that's what the courts lookto. QUESTION: Were there other seats available inthe economy section? MR. HARAKAS: There were other seats available,Chief Justice. QUESTION: In the economy section? MR. HARAKAS: In the economy seat section. Ithink when you -- it was very difficult to determinebecause the plane was -- there were approximately seats. Some of those seats were in the smokingsection, but the -- QUESTION: And in addition, there were the no-revenue people who could have been asked to leave. MR. HARAKAS: There were the non-revenue people,but when you look to the record, the only way you coulddetermine the non-revenue people -- in fact, we had tosubmit post-trial submissions after the trial to -- forsomebody to testify to interpret the codes that were on th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. the passenger manifest to determine who were revenue andwho were non-revenue. QUESTION: This doesn't have anything to do withthe case, does it? MR. HARAKAS: No, it doesn't, Your Honor. Itdoesn't have -- QUESTION: So what are we talking about it for?I mean, it -- it -- the issue before us is not negligence. MR. HARAKAS: It's not -- QUESTION: The issue before us is whether it wasan accident. MR. HARAKAS: Exactly. It is whether it was anaccident. QUESTION: May I ask this question? I know youdidn't argue about negligence, but you do seem to draw adistinction between affirmative conduct on the one handand failure to act on the other hand. And my question toyou is, supposing that without asking the stewardess, thepassenger had gotten into a -- a non-smoking seat seven oreight rows ahead of where he was sitting and then wasordered to return to his seat. Would that have been anaccident? MR. HARAKAS: Under the circumstances, no, Idon't think under -- for purposes of the WarsawConvention, that would have been an accident. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. QUESTION: That would have been. MR. HARAKAS: It would not have been anaccident. QUESTION: It would not have been. MR. HARAKAS: Because again, the injury -- QUESTION: So then -- then you don't rely on adistinction for the action and non-action. MR. HARAKAS: Well, because -- well, I do relyon the distinction between action and non-action becauseyou could have an omission which in and of itself cannotbe an accident. I -- I really gave a lot of thought tothis. I looked at the cases and I could never find a pureomission being an accident. A omission can result in anaccident. QUESTION: Well, why is this a pure omission?It seems to me she misrepresented that the plane was fulltwice when that wasn't true. That doesn't sound like anomission to me. She told the wife to sit down. She --well, how do you treat that she was supposed to reportsuch incidents to her supervisor and she didn't do that? MR. HARAKAS: The -- the bottom line of theallegations here were that the -- the flight attendantshould have taken action to move Mr. -- Dr. Hanson toanother seat, and failure to do so would be -- QUESTION: And part of what -- part of what she th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. had -- MR. HARAKAS: -- in itself an omission. QUESTION: Part of the picture is things thatshe affirmatively did do, and part are things she didn'tdo. And I don't understand that the law makes adistinction between doing what one should not have done ornot doing what one should have done. MR. HARAKAS: Generally in -- under negligencelaw -- under negligence law a negligence can be an act oromission. But here, when you're looking to the treaty ofan accident defined as an unusual, unexpected event orhappening, you basically have a non-event, something thatdid not happen. You -- you see that I think in the -- QUESTION: Yes, but you -- you say you wouldn'tdraw the distinction I suggested. So assume the case wasthe other way around, that the stewardess told him to getback to his seat. Now, why would that not be an accident? MR. HARAKAS: Because at that point, when he gotback to his seat, he would be back to his normal assignednon-smoking seat. While in close proximity to the smokingsection, again, you have to see that smoke on a smokingaircraft, a known smoking aircraft, nobody -- you know,there was no surprise here when he got on board on thisaircraft that there was a -- there was going to be smokeon this aircraft -- is not an unusual, unexpected event. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. QUESTION: But I want to be sure I understandyour position. If the stewardess had gone to the captainof the plane and said, we've got a guy in the back seatwho said he's going to die because he can't stand smoke,he wants to sit in the front seat, and he's grabbed a seatup there, should I order him back to the old seat, and thecaptain says, yes, send him back, would that be anaccident? MR. HARAKAS: Under the Warsaw Convention, Idon't think it would be an accident, and here's why. It-- these are extreme examples that -- with respect to thatwhere -- the passenger in this case -- don't forget too,the flight attendant did give the option to this passengerto move. He could have taken self-help to remedy thesituation, but he opted not to. But in those type ofsituations, you have instances where they're very extremeexamples, but -- and the convention doesn't necessarilyprovide a remedy for all those types of situations. QUESTION: I -- I take it -- I take it you think-- is it Abramson in the Third Circuit where they -- the-- the passenger can't lie -- lie down. MR. HARAKAS: Exactly, Justice Kennedy. QUESTION: You take the position that case iswrong? MR. HARAKAS: No. That -- that position -- that th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. case is -- is percent correct and it's very analogousto our case because in the Abramson -- QUESTION: That's -- that's -- it seems to methere's an accident in that case. MR. HARAKAS: In that case, the -- the court ofappeals found there was not an accident. QUESTION: I understand, but it seems to me thatthere is. MR. HARAKAS: Well, Abramson followed the --almost the exact criteria set forth by the Court in Saks.Was it an unusual, unexpected event? And they found thatbeing seated in an aircraft seat -- you're assigned anaircraft seat -- is not -- and sustaining an injury due toyour own internal reaction was not an accident becausethey, again, focused on what was the precise factual eventthat led to the injury. QUESTION: Of course, there it seems to me thatthe -- the internal cause is -- is much greater than it --it is here. Let -- let's -- can we take the case on theassumption -- I think we must take the case on theassumption, based on the -- on the findings of thedistrict court, that if they had moved the passenger, theevent would not have occurred. MR. HARAKAS: We have to -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. QUESTION: Now -- MR. HARAKAS: Yes. We have to take -- QUESTION: -- if we take the case on thatassumption, it's -- it seems to me it's got to be anaccident. MR. HARAKAS: I disagree, Justice Kennedy,because again, I -- I just come back to when I was lookingat all the cases and looking at the treaty and the text ofthe convention, you always do have to look to the injury-producing event because the text of the treaty says anaccident which causes the damage. And I think it doescome down to showing what is the direct event. I think when you look at the Krys case, I thinkthe Court -- the Eleventh Circuit in Krys clearly setforth, I think, a very workable standard. They say let'slook at the -- we ask let's look at the precise event. Welook at what were the precise events that caused thisinjury, not the actions of the air carrier that they couldhave taken to avert that injury. QUESTION: But was it determined here that thepassenger died from smoke exposure? MR. HARAKAS: There was at the -- there was a --a legal finding that it was the smoke that killed thepassenger even though -- QUESTION: And do we take the case on that th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. understanding? MR. HARAKAS: You would have to take the case onthe understanding because we didn't raise the factualissue that he would have died from the food poisoning. QUESTION: And is it the case that there wouldhave been seats possibly available more removed from thesmoke so that it wouldn't have been as heavy an exposureto smoke? MR. HARAKAS: I don't -- I don't think there wasany evidence to establish the concentrations of thecigarette smoke. There were seats that were furtherremoved, but then you come down to, again, factual issuesor determinations as to, well, how far do you remove thepassenger. Is three further rows further ahead, five rowsfurther ahead enough? QUESTION: But here there was a total refusalto -- MR. HARAKAS: There was a -- well, there wasa -- QUESTION: -- to provide any help. MR. HARAKAS: There was a refusal to -- therewas a refusal to move him because the flight attendantbelieved the flight was full, and it was, other than the seats. But the -- the flight attendant did give thispassenger the option to reseat himself. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. QUESTION: Well, you -- you say you have toconsider just very precisely what caused the injury. Whatis your view here of what caused the injury? MR. HARAKAS: What caused the injury was hisexposure to the cigarette smoke under the facts of thiscase and on the findings. And then we have to determinewas cigarette smoke in that area, ambient cigarette smoke,unusual, unexpected, and even the lower court found thatcigarette smoke on a smoking aircraft is not an unusual,unexpected event. QUESTION: When you say the -- the airline gavethe passenger the option to reseat himself, wasn't it theoption to -- to request another passenger to change seatswith him? MR. HARAKAS: To change seats with him. QUESTION: Yes. MR. HARAKAS: Or he could have -- what the -- orhe could have moved through the cabin to see if he couldlocate an empty seat. But mind you, the flight attendant never had anydirect communications with Dr. Hanson. It was alwaysthrough his wife. There were two requests made to move oninitial boarding. QUESTION: Well, but does that make -- does thatmake any difference in -- in this case, the fact that his th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. wife was speaking for him? MR. HARAKAS: No. I mean, it would have made adifference in the lower court as to the issue ofreasonableness and things like that, but for purpose ofthe legal issue before the Court, no, it doesn't make adifference because, again, when you look at -- when youlook at all the various cases, when you come through Krys,Abramson, and the other pre-Tseng cases -- and I draw thatdistinction before Tseng -- the courts universally hadheld that a passenger's injury arising out of his owninternal reaction to the conditions on the aircraft is notan accident. And when you look to the history of theconvention itself, here the lower courts, in effect --while we say they didn't use negligence, they, in effect,imported concepts of negligence, reasonableness,reasonable alternatives, things like that, those types ofconcepts. QUESTION: How about other courts? I mean, wedo look to see what our treaty partners do in this area.The two other courts that were cited in the brief thataddressed this question seem to agree with the decision ofthe Ninth Circuit in this case. MR. HARAKAS: Yes. Yes, Justice Ginsburg. Theone court was an Australian court in Povi, a lower court th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. case, which that case has been appealed and argued onappeal. And that case -- that was in the DVT context. Ithink that court suffered from the same fundamental errorsthat the courts here below did in viewing what the -- QUESTION: What about the court of appeals inEngland -- MR. HARAKAS: -- that -- QUESTION: -- that disagreed on the -- on the --whatever that -- MR. HARAKAS: Yes, the DVT litigation. QUESTION: Disagreed on that, but did say, wentout of its way to say, it thought that this case was theright way to go about it. MR. HARAKAS: Well, the -- on the DVT litigationcase, the court found that -- he disagreed with thereasoning of the lower courts, but he said that he couldcertainly understand the result. But he was, again,focusing in on the facts because if you applied the -- QUESTION: Well, that's surely dictum anyway. Imean -- MR. HARAKAS: Yes, well -- QUESTION: -- the dictum in that case that --that he thought that this case came out right below. Wewouldn't even -- we wouldn't even give dispositive effectto our own dictum much less to the dictum of a court of th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. appeals in England. MR. HARAKAS: You're -- you're right, JusticeScalia. It was dicta. And what happened was in thatcase, I think he had a misperception of the facts at theend of the day, and if you applied the rationale that heused for his opinion in dismissing those cases, the factsof this case would inevitably lead to the dismissal ofthis case and a finding of no accident. QUESTION: I don't think so, having read hisdecision and the other members of the court of appeals. QUESTION: What was Lord Phillips'misperception? MR. HARAKAS: As to the enforced exposure to thecigarette smoke because -- because the passenger here wasgiven the option to relocate, and he could have relocatedhimself. QUESTION: The option being -- the option beingthe one that was mentioned a moment ago. Your husband canget up and try to get somebody else to move? MR. HARAKAS: Switch or find another -- one ofthe available empty seats. Because then you also have toremember, again, I -- well, I don't want to get intothe -- QUESTION: She -- she said positively there areno empty seats. The -- the option that was given to the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. wife was that you go ask another passenger to switchseats. MR. HARAKAS: Sure, because -- because at thetime, you know, there were only empty seats, and shesaid that the plane is full. And that -- and that's atthe time of boarding as well, in the middle of boarding.It's a flight that had been delayed for hours.Everybody is coming on board the plane. QUESTION: But by the time the second and thirdinquiries were asked, it should have been evident thatthere were empty seats. MR. HARAKAS: Well, the -- the second inquirywas just before -- shortly before takeoff on -- on aflight delayed for hours, and they're trying to takeoff, and she says, I can't help you right now. And onething -- and then the third one was shortly after takeoff. QUESTION: Well, but the -- I wouldn't thinkthey allowed smoking before takeoff. MR. HARAKAS: No, they did not allow smokingbefore takeoff. It wasn't until the third incidentshortly after takeoff when smoking was allowed, and thenshe said, can you please move my husband now? And therequest was denied. But I think with -- with respect to the wholeaccident inquiry issue here, we also have to look to, when th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. you start bringing in the definition of what is anaccident, when you start equating with issues ofnegligence and common law, I think we go astray and gocontrary to what the drafters intended as to what theCourt here in Tseng held, that you don't -- accident isnot a common law concept. It's a self-contained -- QUESTION: If Tseng had held nothing on thispoint, in fact, it -- it said that the Second Circuit'sconclusion that that wasn't an accident was doubtful. InTseng, it was an academic question. What barred her fromgetting recovery under the treaty was she didn't sufferfrom a physical injury or from a psychological injury with-- with physical manifestations. She didn't die and shedidn't have the kind of injury that would qualify. Tseng-- I think you are quite wrong in saying that thatdecision passed on the concept of accident. MR. HARAKAS: No. I agree with you, JusticeGinsburg. I may have misspoke because you're absolutelyright. There was only that one footnote that -- where theCourt did express concern as to whether the court in theSecond Circuit flexibly applied the Tseng decision. But Iwas talking about the -- what I meant was the broadercontext of Tseng with respect to importation or allowing aparallel state cause of action in light of the exclusivityof the convention and the uniformity principles set forth th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. in the convention. And if you start importing concepts ofnegligence back into the convention -- because, in effect,what the courts are doing below is they're saying, fine,we can't go to State law, but what we'll do is we'll --we'll define an accident to make it equivalent to anegligence cause of action. So there's really nodifference. What the courts are doing is nullifying theexclusivity holding by equating any act of negligence asan accident. QUESTION: But are -- are you saying here thatthe court of appeals really wrote an opinion about -- innegligence and saying that's an accident? MR. HARAKAS: When you read the -- the languageof the court of appeals, it's -- it's pure negligencelanguage. QUESTION: But -- but it seems to me whateveryou think about what the flight attendant did, it -- itcan't be classed as negligence here. It was a refusal todo something. MR. HARAKAS: It was a refusal. It was a -- itwas a -- in my view, it was an omission, and I think at --when you take omissions and put it in the context of whatis -- is that an unusual, unexpected event, that anomission cannot in and of itself be the accident. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. QUESTION: I don't know if we really have to getinto the act versus omission question here because thiswas more than that. It was a refusal to take action inthe face of an alleged severe medical problem and in -- incontravention to the rules of the airline at the time. Soyou could characterize this, I think, as some kind ofpositive action, in effect. MR. HARAKAS: Well, I -- when I think of anevent, I think of some type of positive action, and inthis instance, when -- when I look at a refusal to dosomething, I look at it as -- as an omission. But even if you did look at it as a positiveevent here, Justice O'Connor, I think you -- although --everything leads us back to trying to identify was theevent that caused the injury here unusual, unexpected.And that -- there's only one injury-producing event. Forexample, let's say nobody asked the airline in this caseto move Dr. Hanson. There was no request made, and heremained in his non-smoking seat. QUESTION: No request made? I thought the wifemade a request. MR. HARAKAS: I'm sorry. QUESTION: Excuse me. MR. HARAKAS: A hypothetical. QUESTION: Oh. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. MR. HARAKAS: Let's assume no request had beenmade, and he would have remained in that same non-smokingseat and he would have died because of the exposure to theambient cigarette smoke, according to plaintiffs' theory.What would be the injury-producing event there? Whatcaused that death? His internal reaction to the cigarettesmoke, the normal -- which was normal and expected. Now, the fact that they asked -- somebody askedfor him to be moved doesn't change the injury-producingevent. The injury-producing event is the same. It's theexposure to the cigarette smoke. QUESTION: Well, but of course, the exposuremight have been substantially reduced if the passenger hadbeen able to get seated in an area further removed fromthe active smokers. MR. HARAKAS: There -- he still would have had-- there still would have been ambient cigarette smokethroughout the cabin, as we all well know. QUESTION: Well, suppose there were five rows ofempty seats in front and a -- a stewardess -- and thereare stewardesses like this sometimes that we don't peoplewandering around the plane. We're serving food. You mustsit down in your seat. A different case? MR. HARAKAS: No, not a different case becauseyou are assigned to your assigned seat, and again, it's th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. one of those extreme examples that if I believed therewere five empty rows here, he probably would have gottenup and found it himself. But in that case, I don't feelthere would be a different case because, again, I -- Ifocus in on this injury-producing event here, and theinjury-producing event is the exposure to cigarette smokewhich was normal and expected. QUESTION: So your -- your submission is if theairline requires you to sit in the no-smoking seat for noparticularly good reason, there's still no accident. MR. HARAKAS: Oh, I -- I disagree on that onebecause if they required you to sit in a non-smoking seatand you had -- QUESTION: Well, that was my hypothetical. MR. HARAKAS: Okay. If they -- if you -- ifthey require you to sit in a smoking section? QUESTION: No. One -- just one -- one rowahead. MR. HARAKAS: There would be no difference inthe situation from this -- from our scenario. There stillwould not be an accident. He was assigned a non-smokingseat and you -- again, you look to was his own internalreaction here to the normal and expected operation of theaircraft. And I think when -- when you look at the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. convention, the structure of the convention, and what theyhad in mind by the term accident, you have to -- you canonly come back to that one basic conclusion, that you lookto what is that injury-producing event. I'd like just to reserve the remaining -- mytime for rebuttal if there are no further questions. QUESTION: Very well, Mr. Harakas. Mr. Farr, we'll hear from you. ORAL ARGUMENT OF H. BARTOW FARR, III ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTS MR. FARR: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it pleasethe Court: There are basically two reasons why we thinkthat article imposes liability when an airlineknowingly leaves a passenger in medical jeopardy withouttaking basic measures to alleviate the harm. First, because that kind of action violatesnormal industry safety practices and thus, under Saks -- QUESTION: Well, that's the question. Is it anaccident? You assume it. You say that kind of accident.Well, I think that's the issue. Is it an accident? MR. FARR: I'm sorry if I said that kind of -- Imeant to say that kind of action under Saks is contrary to-- to the normal industry safety practices. QUESTION: Let me ask about Saks. It's -- it th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. seems to me that the fallacy in the argument that -- thatyou -- you run and that the Government runs is that itaccepts the language of Saks as the totality of what isnecessary to be an accident. Now, Saks involved a fellow who had some problemwith his ear which was -- caused him harm because of thenormal depressor -- pressurization of the -- of thecockpit. And in denying relief under the -- under theconvention, the Court says, no, that wasn't an accidentbecause the cockpits are pressurized all the time, and ifit -- it has -- to be an accident, it has to be anunexpected or unusual event or happening. Okay. Saks was not saying that that is a sufficientcondition to be an accident. It was just saying that thatis a necessary condition. Now, let me -- let me give -- give you ahypothetical and you tell me why -- why this would be anaccident. It seems to me the hypothetical closelyparallels what happened here. A man hurls himself into the sea intending tocommit suicide. There is right nearby to where he hurledhimself into the sea a dock with people on it and life preservers at their feet, and not a single one ofthem picks up the life preserver and throws it to thedrowning man. I don't know why. Maybe they're th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. libertarians who think people should be able to killthemselves. Whatever. (Laughter.) QUESTION: Certainly -- certainly an unexpectedand unusual event. Who would imagine that with lifepreservers within reach of the man, nobody would throwone. Now, would anybody in his right mind say thatthis man died because of an accident? Of course, not.Unexpected and unanticipated is a -- a necessary conditionfor -- for saying that something was caused by anaccident, but it's surely not a sufficient condition. And it seems to me what happened in this planeis exactly like that. It is an event after the person wasendangered. I -- I don't think that this person diedbecause of an accident. It just doesn't make it. Andthat's the language of the convention, not Saks. MR. FARR: Well, Justice Scalia, it seems to methat -- that the point that you're making, which in onesense I think is a correct one, is that the language of --of article , if one looks at it in purely colloquialterms, may not exactly correspond with the definition inSaks. But the language in article isn't used -- theterm accident isn't used purely in the colloquial sense.What we know from the context of the convention as a whole th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. and the liability system as a whole and from Saks is thatsometimes it actually captures less than the colloquialsense of the term accident, sometimes it's more. For example, the mere fact that somebody has aheart attack typically would be, in the colloquial sense,thought of as an accident. But we've learned from Saksthat it is not itself going to be considered the accidentbecause of the context of article and the -- thelanguage about accidents causing death or bodily injury. By the same token, the deliberate refusal tohelp somebody, as the Chief Justice pointed out in his --his earlier question I think, is -- is normally, incolloquial terms, not thought of as an accident. It's notinadvertent. It's deliberate. But we know under article that deliberate conduct can, in fact, be an accident.If a flight attendant strikes a passenger in the face orthrows coffee on the passenger in a fit of rage, that isan accident for purposes of article . QUESTION: I'm willing to say that negligentconduct such as occurred here can be an accident. Ofcourse, it can. If -- if the flight attendant spills somehot liquid on the passenger causing the passenger to bescalded, of course, that -- that's an accident. MR. FARR: Well, Justice Scalia -- QUESTION: That fits the normal -- the normal th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. concept of accident. MR. FARR: Of course, but -- but -- QUESTION: What happened here does not fit thenormal description of accident. MR. FARR: But my example is not a -- anaccidental spilling. I'm -- I'm actually talking about itjust to try to get at the colloquial sense, which I thinkis what disturbs you, that -- that if -- if in fact the --the flight attendant purposely throws the coffee on thepassenger, just become irritated with the passenger, thatwould not normally be thought of as an accident, if you'reasking people around the coffee shop whether there's beenan accident. But in terms of article , it is an accidentbecause we know article covers instances of willfulmisconduct. Article is the gateway by which you get toany liability, and willful misconduct includes certainlythe kinds of -- of things that I'm talking about,deliberate conduct. QUESTION: Can this be said to be that kind ofconduct where it's contrary to the policy of the airline? MR. FARR: Yes, it can, Justice O'Connor. Imean, one of the things that's a little bit curious in --in tying the two questions together with Justice Scalia'squestion, this is a -- this is an incident which in fact th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. is to some extent intentional. QUESTION: Yes. MR. FARR: I mean, the -- it was not inadvertentthat -- that the passenger was left in his seat. Forexample, just -- just to take a different, slightlychanged analogy, if in fact the passenger had -- had askedto be moved in -- out of the vicinity of the smoke, andthe flight attendant had said, let me wait until everybodyis seated, I'll come back and get you in half an hour, andshe forgot to do that, that would actually in colloquialterms seem more like an accident. Somehow negligently sheforgot to come back. But in fact, in this particularcase, she was asked three times and knowing in fact whatshe was doing, she said, no, I'm not going to move you. QUESTION: What if she -- what if she'd beenasked to move him, and she said I'll be back, and thenanother passenger gets very ill and she has to take careof him right away, and then the facts are the same.Accident there? MR. FARR: The question then I think -- the --the proper way to answer that, Justice Kennedy, is to lookat what would happen in the normal flight under the normalcircumstances. Obviously, under the circumstances we hadhere, it's unusual and unexpected that she didn't movehim. If in fact the reason was that there was some other th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. enormous problem on the plane and all of the flightattendants had to deal with that particular problem, thenit seems to me the -- the action here would not be unusualand unexpected. QUESTION: Well, that's -- QUESTION: Your -- you stated in your openingthat the airline's conduct here was contrary to industrypolicy, and I think Justice O'Connor premised an earlierquestion on saying it was against the policy of -- of thisparticular airline. Spell that out a little, will you?What was the policy of -- of the airline and why did thisaction violate it? MR. FARR: The policy of the airline and thepolicy generally, because I think they're in this case thesame -- QUESTION: They're the same. MR. FARR: -- was when a passenger requests amove for medical reasons, that the policy is toaccommodate that request if it's possible to do so. Andit was possible here because there were empty seats in thecoach cabin, so we don't have to get into the complicatedquestions of whether you have to move someone to firstclass or to -- to alleviate the problem. QUESTION: Would -- would it have been any moreor less of an accident if that practice had not prevailed th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. in the industry? MR. FARR: I think it's possible that it would.I mean, I -- our position is not that essentially theindustry can give itself immunity by lowering itsstandards so much that -- that acts that -- that clearlyare unusual, but nonetheless within the -- the industrystandard are -- are immune from liability. But I thinkthe general idea is in trying to evaluate things thataren't obviously accidents, we have to have some sort ofbenchmark to judge whether what's happened is unusual.The natural place is to look -- is -- is at the industrypractice. And if in fact what they've done is consistentwith industry practice, I would think in the usual casecertainly that would suggest there hasn't been an unusualevent. QUESTION: Well, but it was unusual here. MR. FARR: Absolutely. QUESTION: So why isn't this an accident in thesame sense that having an attendant throw hot coffee on apassenger would be? MR. FARR: It is. QUESTION: Supposing the airline's defense tothrowing hot coffee on the passenger said our stewardessesdo that all the time. (Laughter.) th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. QUESTION: There's unexpected about it. MR. FARR: I mean, the -- the fact is as I say,that I don't think that necessarily having a very lowstandard in the company itself or in the industry will, infact, give you immunity, although I have to say I thinkthat in fact that's an unlikely thing to happen becausewhen we talk about the Warsaw Convention, there's anatural -- QUESTION: Mr. Farr, can I interrupt for asecond? It seems to me that in the question of whetheryou move a passenger or not, you could have a situationwhich for security reasons, as they have aroundWashington, every passenger must remain in his or her --her seat for miles or minutes or so, and refusal tomove during that period could not possibly be an accident. MR. FARR: That's correct, Justice Stevens. Ithink -- but -- but the analysis would be the same. Imean, one of the instructions that Saks gives, I thinkcorrectly, is that you have to look at all thecircumstances. What is unusual or unexpected undercertain circumstances would not be unusual or expected --unexpected under other circumstances like the one -- QUESTION: What -- what role does fault play?It -- it seemed to me, as I was reading the Ninth Circuitopinion in Saks, that negligence is probably not a th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. requisite. I don't know if that makes it necessary for usto send it back. Suppose we think that's true. Would wesend it back to the court of appeals and say, no, no,negligence is -- is not the standard, go ahead and findfault on their -- or whether or not there's an accidentunder some other standard? MR. FARR: Justice Kennedy, I -- I don't thinkthat's necessary. I mean, what the Ninth Circuitbasically said was this is an unusual or unexpected eventunder Saks because it violates industry policies, industrystandards, the company policy, and particularly given thenature of the request. If the Ninth Circuit had stoppedthere, it seems to me that their decision would beabsolutely correct. QUESTION: Well, it didn't. It went on and gota bunch of negligence language in there. MR. FARR: Well, it's the following sentencethat obviously raises at least some questions. And Ishould say I'm not sure that -- that language in itselfshould be as troubling as it perhaps appears to somebecause the -- the situations that -- that the courtdescribes there very often will be, it seems to me,unusual or unexpected situations. But nonetheless, it seems to me that -- thatfollowing the adage that the Court sits to review th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. judgments and not opinions, that the Court can simply say,as we -- we suggest would be sufficient, that you do havean unusual and unexpected event when you fail to help apassenger in violation of the standard industry practice. Now, if the standard industry practice would benot to help a passenger under certain circumstances andthe claim is still made that it's unusual or unexpected,one would need another benchmark for reference, but theCourt doesn't need to reach that in this case. Now, I would like to -- to also point out thatin -- in -- when we're talking about the language of -- ofarticle , while I think it's -- it's proper to -- tofocus on the language itself and discuss it in -- in thecontext of Saks, that it's also I think proper to look atthe context of the convention as a whole and whether, infact, competing interpretations of the term accident wouldlead to absurd consequences. Here I think if in fact the definition or theapplication of the definition that Olympic tries to -- tourge on the Court is accepted, that one is going to findthat -- that this convention, which is intended to be theexclusive means of remedy for passengers who suffer deathor bodily injury on an international flight, is -- isgoing to have essentially a hole in it where it doesn'tcover situations even, as in this case, whether it's th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. willful misconduct by the airline crew that causes theinjury. And the focus that -- you know, in terms ofwhether that is a reasonable understanding to attribute tothe parties to the convention under the circumstances, itseems to me when you -- when you say a positive act wouldbe an accident, an omission that would cause an accidentwould be -- you know, would -- would involve an accident,but there's liability whatsoever for situations in whichthe -- the conduct itself is the contributing factor, thefailure to do something is the -- is a strong contributingfactor, doesn't really make any reasonable sense as aconstruction, and particularly because one of the thingsthat the -- the parties must have understood is thatduring the time that the passenger is -- is covered byarticle , if you will, from the time of embarkation tothe time of disembarkation, the passenger is largely inthe control of the airline. The airline determines wherethe passenger sits. So the passenger's opportunities toengage in self-help are greatly reduced. And in that situation, the idea that the -- thatthe parties thought that airlines could simply say we havepassengers on our plane who need our help for medicalreasons, and we're not going to provide any helpwhatsoever and that either causes greater injury -- causes th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. injury in the first place, causes greater injury, or in anunhappy case like this one, actually causes a death, theirtheory would say there's still no liability. And it wouldseem to me you would need a very, very clear indicationfrom the text, which doesn't exist here, to reach thatresult. QUESTION: Well, what if someone suffered, say,a heart attack on the plane and it was hours from itsdestination and the doctor there said, you know, you'vereally got to -- in -- in order to avoid this guy probablydying, you're going to have to land somewhere en route?Now, would an airline be obligated to do that in order toavoid this sort of accident? MR. FARR: It depends on the circumstances, butI think the general industry practice would be, in fact,that an airline would be -- would -- would normally divertto a nearer airport in fact to -- to save the -- thepassenger from death or from much more severe injury. That in a sense is the Krys case, the EleventhCircuit case, that Olympic says is in conflict with thedecision in this case. That was a case in which theEleventh Circuit said, well, the -- the failure to divert,which it -- it was agreed would -- would have made asignificant difference to the passenger's health, was notunusual because the plane just did the normal thing. It th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. just flew to its regular destination. But the problemwith Krys is that if you look at all the circumstances, asSaks says, it's not the normal thing just to fly on toyour intended destination when a passenger has had a heartattack and the medical indication -- QUESTION: Well, then -- then you're sayingbasically it depends on airline practice whether somethingis expected or unexpected and whether it's the normalpractice. MR. FARR: In this context. I mean, obviously,sometimes it's -- it's -- if -- if the context is the --the failure to help a passenger in -- in medical distress,then it seems to me that the usual practice of -- of theairline or the industry in general is -- is the properbenchmark, at least initially, for determining whethersomething is usual or unusual. Now, obviously, there are other kinds ofaccidents, crashes and hijackings and all, where -- wherecommon knowledge tells you what happened is unusual, butwhere common knowledge doesn't necessarily tell you theanswer, then it does seem that reference to industrystandards is a useful benchmark. QUESTION: Would you comment on the distinctionbetween an event and an accident? MR. FARR: Well, the event is under -- under th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. Saks -- I mean, the difference is that an accident has tobe an unusual event, that not every event is an accident.You have to demonstrate that it's unusual, and -- and muchof what we've talked about this morning, obviously, is --is why this would be unusual by reference to industrystandards. But an event, if one looks at a dictionarydefinition, is simply something that happened on theplane. QUESTION: I think it would affect the liabilityfor loss of baggage and so forth. That's triggered by anevent, as I understand it. MR. FARR: That's correct. It is now. It wasat one time triggered by an occurrence, and under the Montreal Convention it's triggered by an event. Yes. QUESTION: Do you think the Abramson case in theThird Circuit was properly decided? MR. FARR: I don't -- I am not sure the resultwas wrong. I don't think the approach was correct. Ithink the court should have asked what the usual industrypractice would have been in that case, and if the usualindustry practice would have been to make an accommodationalong the lines that -- that the passenger requested, thenI think that might have well have been an accident. Ithink it's a -- it's a difficult question as to whetherthat would have been true because that particular th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. passenger needed to be moved into first class, needed twofirst class seats, and in fact part of the solution was hewas perhaps going to introduce self-induced vomiting as acure, which obviously would affect other passengers in thecabin. So, you know, on the facts, one ultimately mighthave said -- the -- the judgment that was made thereactually comported with -- with the usual industrystandards. However, we don't know the answer because theThird Circuit didn't ask the right question. QUESTION: But you do think the Eleventh CircuitKrys case was wrong in both reasoning and result. MR. FARR: Well, Krys -- we have an additionalpiece of information because the court went on to decidethe case. This was pre Tseng. So it actually decided thecase as a common law negligence case, and when it did so,it found that what the airline had done by not divertingin that particular case was a violation of industrystandards. So in that case I think what should havehappened in Krys is that the court should have made thatinquiry as part of the Warsaw Convention analysis, and ifit had done so in fact, it would have limited the recoveryin Krys, which was many millions of dollars, to the limitsof the Warsaw Convention, supplemented by the agreements. If the Court has no further questions, thankyou. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. Farr. Ms. McDowell, we'll hear from you. ORAL ARGUMENT OF BARBARA B. McDOWELL ON BEHALF OF THE UNITED STATES, AS AMICUS CURIAE, SUPPORTING THE RESPONDENTS MS. McDOWELL: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court: A flight attendant's refusal to assist an illpassenger can amount to an accident within the meaning ofthe Warsaw Convention. The analysis focuses on whethersuch conduct is, objectively speaking, unusual orunexpected, taking into account the ordinary practices inthe industry and other indicia of what would be expectedin the circumstances. At a minimum it's reasonable to construe theconvention's term accident, as the United States construesit, to encompass the aberrant conduct of the flight crew,and this Court has ordinarily accorded weight to theUnited States' reasonable construction of treaties towhich it is a party. Our reading of the term accident comports withthe text structure and purposes of the convention. Theterm is a broad and inclusive one. It's not confined tocrashes or explosions or equipment failures. As the Courtrecognized in Saks, it can encompass a wide array of th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. unusual and unexpected events external to the passengerpotentially -- QUESTION: Ms. McDowell -- MS. McDOWELL: Yes. QUESTION: -- assuming that it could havehappened somehow in an airline context, would you say thatJustice Scalia's hypothetical was an accident? MS. McDOWELL: I think that a failure of anairline employee to come to the assistance of a passengercan, indeed, be an accident. One must recall that evenunder the common law, common carriers such as airlineshave been understood to have special obligations towardtheir passengers, not expansive obligations to act asphysicians to them, but to provide reasonable first aiduntil they reach the destination. So I think that -- thatthis particular context is -- is quite different from thecontext when one is dealing with just a bystander. And I think under the common law as well, therehave been other situations that might well be viewed asaccidents that involved omissions when one is under a dutyto act. QUESTION: Okay. Let's say it wasn't abystander. Let's say that, you know, they were -- theywere relatives. They're the parents of -- of the personwho jumped. You still wouldn't call that an accident, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. would you? Does it have anything to do with -- withwhether there's a duty or not? Some States do impose aduty on -- on bystanders, by the way, and let's assumethat happens in a State where there is a duty. MS. McDOWELL: Well, I think the inquiry here -- QUESTION: You still wouldn't call it anaccident, I don't think. I mean, nobody would use theEnglish language that way. MS. McDOWELL: Well, I think here under theWarsaw Convention, the term accident has been understoodto refer to an unusual, unexpected event. QUESTION: Okay. But wouldn't you -- WarsawConvention or not, wouldn't you call it an accident if thebystanders had put up an advertisement saying, swim withus for $, and then they stood there? MS. McDOWELL: Yes, that would -- that wouldseem to be an accident. QUESTION: That would get a little closer to oursituation, wouldn't it? And that -- MS. McDOWELL: Yes, Your Honor. QUESTION: -- and that might well be anaccident. MS. McDOWELL: Other circumstances -- medicalmalpractice cases, for example, might be those where anomission of some sort, because the doctor is under a duty th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. to act, could be viewed as an accident. For example, afailure to diagnose or to treat a particular medicalcondition until it's too late, if that was negligent,could be an accident. QUESTION: Would -- would you say that we oughtto write the opinion so that if there is negligence, thatis evidence that normal airline practices were not beingfollowed, and that's an accident? So that negligence isimportant to the analysis, not necessary, but it -- it canbe helpful. MS. McDOWELL: We would say that -- QUESTION: Or -- or should we write the opinionwithout talking about negligence? MS. McDOWELL: We would say that the test isobjective reasonableness which connotes some of the sameconcepts as negligence does in the common law. QUESTION: Well, how does -- how does thatdiffer from -- from the common law at all? If you sayobjective reasonableness, you're really just changingaccident into common law negligence, aren't you? MS. McDOWELL: Well, not in all circumstancesbecause negligence isn't a necessary condition for anaccident to occur. An accident could be an act of God andan event that did not involve negligence. In this particular case, yes, the inquiry into th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. due care and the inquiry into an -- whether an accidenthas occurred are quite similar, but they're still focusedon a different question. The accident inquiry askswhether something unusual or unexpected has happened, andthe due care inquiry under article asks whether theairline has acted with due care. QUESTION: Well, negligence is a proxy for thefact that normal airline operating rules were not beingfollowed. MS. McDOWELL: Correct. Now, there may beisolated instances where although ordinary practices werebeing followed, those practices were so deficient that,nonetheless, an accident might be found. Normally,however, I think that -- that airlines' practices are totreat passengers reasonably. So I think that asking thereasonableness question would be the same as -- as seeingwhether there was a deviation from standard policies andpractices. In construing the -- QUESTION: You know, I think there may be apublic policy reason for construing accident contrary toits normal meaning to embrace in this context intentionalacts whether by the airline employees or by pirates or --or terrorists or anybody else. But I don't -- I -- there-- there's a problem in my mind about interpreting it to th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. -- to embrace especially negligent omissions. It seems tome that's so far away from the normal meaning of accidentthat I don't -- I don't see the justification for doing itespecially where it converts the convention intoessentially what it was not intended to be, liability fornegligence. That -- MS. McDOWELL: Well, of course, in this case wedon't have a mere negligent omission. We have what thedistrict court found to be willful misconduct. We alsofound -- this case also involves a -- a refusal to act, aseries of refusals to act, and -- and provision ofmisinformation about whether the flight was completelyfull or not. So it's -- it's difficult to characterizethis particular case -- QUESTION: No, the misinformation didn't bearany causality. I mean, the -- the -- what caused theinjury here was -- was not the misrepresentation about theother seats. It was simply the failure to move the personto another seat, and that is totally an -- an omission, itseems to me. MS. McDOWELL: I don't think it's properlycharacterized as an omission when there were threeincreasingly desperate requests to reseat the passengerand the flight attendant responded on each occasion -- QUESTION: I take it back. Three -- three th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. omissions. MS. McDOWELL: I think that this sort of casecan be contrasted, for example, from a -- a simple failureto warn case where the question is whether an airlineshould have warned about a particular medical conditionthat a passenger might have in response to ordinaryflight. This seems to involve much more. Certainly LordPhillips in the English court of appeals thought that thiscase involved much more than -- than just a failure toact. The drafters of the Warsaw Convention certainlydidn't intend that airlines would be insurers for any harmthat befell a passenger during flight. They did intend,however, that airlines would be held liable when their ownfault caused a passenger's death or bodily injury.Indeed, they eliminated the caps on damages in cases whenthat fault rose to the level of willful misconduct. Thiswould seem doubtful that the drafters intended simply bytheir choice of the term accident to exempt airlinesentirely from liability in cases where passengers died orsuffered bodily injury because of the airline's fault,including willful misconduct in this case. QUESTION: Well, is airline's fault evenrequired? Supposing that before the plane took off, therewas a big fire in the area and smoke filled the -- filled th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. the aircraft while it was on the runway and then he diedfrom that smoke, would that be an accident? MS. McDOWELL: It could well be an accident,Your Honor. It might not be an accident for whichliability would -- would be properly -- QUESTION: Why wouldn't it be? QUESTION: There's going to be an accidentwithin the meaning of the convention is what I'm askingyou. MS. McDOWELL: Yes, it probably would. QUESTION: So then the smoke doesn't have -- the-- the -- whatever the accidental cause is, it doesn'thave to be fault of the airline. MS. McDOWELL: That's correct because theairlines have the opportunity under article of theconvention to come back and say that we cannot be heldresponsible for this accident because we did not actnegligently. The understanding -- QUESTION: I thought they had to show more thanthat. I thought they had to show that they did everythingpossible to prevent -- to prevent the -- MS. McDOWELL: Well, the term in the treaty isall necessary measures. QUESTION: Yes. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. MS. McDOWELL: But it's been construed to meanall reasonable measures. So it's essentially beenunderstood as a -- a due care defense. And that'sreinforced in the Montreal Convention, the new conventionthat has just come into force, that -- that uses the termnegligence in its own words. The understanding that the accident requirementcan be satisfied in cases like this one serves theconvention's purpose of balancing the interests of aircarriers and passengers. Such cases do not pose a threatof particularly expansive liability to airlines. Casessuch as this one where air carriers do something that isunusual and unexpected and thereby cause a passenger'sdeath or bodily injury can be expected to remainrelatively few under the convention, as they are underU.S. domestic law. Imposing liability, meanwhile, enablespassengers and their families to receive some measure ofcompensation for their injuries and provides appropriateincentives for airline supervision and -- and training oftheir personnel. For all of these reasons, we'd ask the judgmentof the court of appeals be affirmed. QUESTION: Thank you, Ms. McDowell. Mr. Harakas, you have minutes remaining. REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF ANDREW J. HARAKAS th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER MR. HARAKAS: Mr. Chief Justice, I think whenyou -- when you look at the arguments that were made bothby the respondents and the Solicitor General, it all comesback to the issue of negligence, wanting to equate anaccident with negligence. The Warsaw Convention wasn't an all-encompassingtreaty. There were certain holes left in the conventionwhere there wasn't going to be recovery. For example, ifthere's no bodily injury, there's no recovery under theWarsaw Convention, as set forth by the Floyd decision, nomatter, let's say, how egregious the air carrier's conductmay have been. It set forth certain things, and theconvention wanted to define the liability based on the --by using that term accident not making reference tovarious common law notions. I think one of the problems that we're seeing isthat confusing what is the accident -- and that's why Ialways come back to the injury-producing event. In thehijacking situation, for example, the accident there isn'tthe failure of the airline to conduct proper screening andallowing the hijackers to come on board the aircraft. Theaccident is those hijackers get on the -- on the airplaneand they injure a passenger. And that -- the injuryitself is the accident. Just like in the smoke example, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. if there was a fire someplace and the cabin filled up withsmoke, the smoke itself injuring the passenger is theaccident. Why the smoke got there is completelyirrelevant. So when you -- when you start injecting thewhole concepts of negligence, I think you upset the wholebalance of the convention, and -- and one of the principalgoals of the convention was to have a uniformity and tolimit the liability of the carrier. In fact, the MontrealConvention of , which just -- which just entered intoforce last week here in the United States, retained theterm accident. The issue of whether the carrier should beliable for the state of the health of the passenger hasalways been a very special and unique issue in the contextof the convention's history. Post-ratification conductfrom all the way through the -- all the way to the --the Montreal Convention of , the contracting stateswere very careful and very reluctant to make the carriersliable for injuries arising out of their -- out of thestate of health of the passenger. And the -- with respect to the policy argumentswhere they say -- where the respondents and SolicitorGeneral say that the -- there are certainly policy reasonsshould be considered in weighing in favor of thepassengers in this instance, I think when you look to -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. you have to apply the strict terms of the convention. Andeach time this Court has been confronted with similarpolicy arguments, they have been rejected. In Saks, the-- the passenger was left without a remedy because theycouldn't -- because the passenger couldn't satisfy the --the accident condition precedent. The same thing inFloyd. There they couldn't satisfy the bodily injuryrequirement. And in Tseng, where the -- there was noremedy allowed under State law when they couldn't satisfythe accident or the bodily injury conditions precedent. Focusing on what the injury-producing event andwhether that event is unusual, unexpected, and external tothe passenger -- thank you, Your Honor. CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: Thank you, Mr.Harakas. The case is submitted. (Whereupon, at : p.m., the case in theabove-entitled matter was submitted.) th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. 