 IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XJ. ELLIOTT HIBBS, DIRECTOR, ARIZONA DEPARTMENT OF REVENUE, Petitioner ::::v. : No. -KATHLEEN M. WINN, ET AL. :- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XWashington, D.C.Tuesday, January , The above-entitled matter came on for oralargument before the Supreme Court of the United States at: a.m.APPEARANCES:SAMUEL GODDARD, ESQ., Attorney General, Phoenix, Arizona;on behalf of the Petitioner.THOMAS G. HUNGAR, ESQ., Deputy Solicitor General,Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on behalf ofthe United States, as amicus curiae, supporting thePetitioner. MARVIN S. COHEN, ESQ., Scottsdale, Arizona; on behalf ofthe Respondents. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. C O N T E N T SORAL ARGUMENT OF SAMUEL GODDARD, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioner THOMAS G. HUNGAR, ESQ.On behalf of the United States, as amicus curiae, supporting the Petitioner MARVIN S. COHEN, ESQ.On behalf of the Respondents REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OFSAMUEL GODDARD, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioner PAGE th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. P R O C E E D I N G S(: a.m.)CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: We'll hear argumentnext in No. -, J. Elliott Hibbs v. Kathleen Winn.Very well, General Goddard. You may proceed.ORAL ARGUMENT OF SAMUEL GODDARDON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERMR. GODDARD: Mr. Chief Justice, may it pleasethe Court:The fundamental -- the fundamental question inthis case is whether the meaning of the term assessment,as used in the Tax Injunction Act, includes Arizona'sschool tax credit. As this Court has written on several occasions, the Tax Injunction Act has a very broad reach. Itdrastically limits the access to Federal district courts. The act is relatively simple and -- and straightforward. It's just words, as I count it, and it specificallysays the Federal district courts shall not enjoin,restrain, or suspend the assessment, levy, or collectionof a tax under State law where there is a plain, speedy,and efficient remedy in the courts of that State.QUESTION: Where is the assessment here that --that supposedly is being enjoined?MR. GODDARD: Your Honor, the assessment is the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. calculation of a tax by the -- for the taxpayer. In otherwords, it's the bottom line. It's the plain meaning ofassessment and the dictionary meaning. It is what happensafter you've done all the additions and subtractions andyou get to line on the Arizona tax return form whichis --QUESTION: It's -- it's a self-assessment? Soyou -- it's a self-assessment that's being enjoined?MR. GODDARD: Your Honor, I'm not talking abouta self-assessment. I believe a self-assessment is acolloquialism that talks about what all of us go throughas taxpayers. The assessment I'm talking about is whatthe defendant in this case, Elliott Hibbs, the Director ofthe Department of Revenue in Arizona, does both for individual taxpayers and for all the taxpayerscollectively to determine what the State's revenues aregoing to be from the taxpayers. And the only way you getto the revenue is that bottom line on the tax form --QUESTION: Mr. Goddard --MR. GODDARD: -- after you've done all thecredits.QUESTION: Mr. Goddard, I thought that in aself-assessment system, such as the one we have, theFederal Government, Arizona, that assessment is associatedwith assertion of a deficiency. In Arizona, is every th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. taxpayer assessed by the government? That would be quitea different system, wouldn't it?MR. GODDARD: Your Honor, every taxpayer inArizona has their form calculated by the government. Wecheck the math.QUESTION: You -- you audit everyone in theState?MR. GODDARD: No, Your Honor. I'm not trying tosay we audit everyone, but technically the assessment, andas it is used also in the Internal Revenue Code to myunderstanding, is the assessment -- and I'm quoting fromthe Internal Revenue Code -- shall be made by recordingthe liability of the taxpayer in the Office of theSecretary. QUESTION: Which the Government does when itwants to assert a deficiency. And we were told that theassessment just a week ago is nothing more than abookkeeping entry, and what it does is it triggers certainadministrative remedies. But my understanding was that anassessment is made when the Government wants to assert adeficiency. Otherwise, there isn't this entry, thisbookkeeping entry someplace, that every taxpayer isn'tassessed. MR. GODDARD: Your Honor, it is -- it is ourposition that the State of Arizona under our State tax th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. system assesses all taxes in the State and that --QUESTION: When -- when does that happen? Whenthe return is received in the office or?MR. GODDARD: It -- it returns during -- excuseme. Your Honor, the -- the activity perhaps is -- issomewhat fictional in terms of the -- of the director. He's not going to sit down, as in the old days, with agreen eyeshade and write down a number for each taxpayer. But he does, in fact, and his office does, in fact,calculate the gross revenues in the State, what creditsare going to be applied against those gross revenues,various adjustments, and comes up with a bottom line. Andthat bottom line is our dictionary -- Black's Dictionarydefinition of what an assessment is.QUESTION: But that's not the assessment thatyou -- I mean, you used the Internal Revenue Codeprovision. That is an entry. We were told it's abookkeeping entry. And it's made as a prerequisite tolevying liens, to extending the statute of limitations. But it certainly isn't true that that kind of assessment,which is what your brief suggested you were talking about,is made in the case of every taxpayer.MR. GODDARD: Your Honor, I'm not saying thatevery taxpayer has a -- a specific entry next to theirname. That would -- that would certainly be more than we th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. could do. But our statutes, our tax system in Arizonadoes, in fact, call for an assessment of the liability ofeach taxpayer. And that assessment, the entire plan,scheme fixed upon for charging and taxing, the Webster'sdefinition of assessment, is the bottom line. And I guessthat's the plain meaning that I'm trying to get to.QUESTION: Because I -- I assume that assessmentis -- is -- the assessment that we're concerned with is --is within the meaning of Federal law.But let me just ask you this question. Do youhave a statute in Arizona that in effect says what thedepartment does with respect to each taxpayer is to assessthat taxpayer? Does -- does that word occur as astatement for some technical function that you go through with respect to every taxpayer within the meaning ofArizona law?MR. GODDARD: Your Honor, I -- I can't say thatwe have that specific word in our statute. Wecertainly --QUESTION: Well, then -- then isn't your problemthis, that -- that there -- that that specific word isused in the Federal statutes, quite apart from the TaxInjunction Act? And -- and my understanding is the sameas Justice Ginsburg's. It is used in -- in a way that --that involves a -- a predicate to the -- the assertion of th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. a lien or -- or steps to collect a deficiency. And -- andthat doesn't seem to be what is involved here. Isn't --isn't that a problem for you in your position?MR. GODDARD: Your Honor, I don't believe sobecause the -- the first step -- and -- and the threewords in the statute I think are -- are certainly helpful: assessment, levy, collection. What essentially theCongress --QUESTION: Well, there's no issue of a levygoing on here, and they're not trying to stop you fromcollecting anything. I mean, their -- their argument isyou ought to be collecting more, but they're certainly notinterfering in a way that's going to leave Arizona withoutmoney while it litigates. What they're saying is we want to litigate so that you'll get more money, and -- and sothat I suppose that's why the Ninth Circuit said why --that the closest thing to a word involved here that --that might let the statute apply is assessment. MR. GODDARD: Yes, Your Honor, we believethat --QUESTION: And it didn't think it did. But, Imean, it seems to me that that's a basic textual problemin -- in your case, and I don't understand how you getaround it. QUESTION: The technical assessment that's made th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. tied to a deficiency you don't fit. So you're talkingabout some other kind of assessment than the one that, forexample, the Government was telling us about last Mondayin the Galletti case, not that technical -- some -- ifwe're talking about property, say, a property tax, thenmaybe an assessor comes on the land, looks at the house,attributes a value to it. That wouldn't be a self-assessing system from the taxpayer's point of view. But-- but the income tax is quite different. You assessyourself. Sometimes you get audited; sometimes you don't.And I don't see that anybody here is trying tostop the government from making the assessment that wouldbe a trigger to asserting a deficiency. No one is tryingto stop Arizona from asserting a deficiency against any taxpayer.MR. GODDARD: No, Your Honor, but -- but whatwe're asking for is that the -- the director, Mr. Hibbs,be able to -- as the statute says, to implement the -- thetax system under State law.QUESTION: Well, is it the case, though, thatother courts of appeal at the Federal level have concludedthat the Tax Injunction Act does not bar suits that wouldincrease State revenues rather than reduce them, that thepurpose of the Tax Injunction Act was to prevent reductionof State tax revenues, specifically by corporations coming th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. in and getting injunctions and preventing the State fromreceiving revenues, but that it doesn't apply where theeffect of the -- the suit would be to increase the State'scoffers?MR. GODDARD: Your Honor, if I could deal with-- there -- there are two questions, one, the legislativehistory and -- and the -- as this Court has noted --QUESTION: First of all, with the courts ofappeal, the majority have so held, I guess, who haveaddressed it.MR. GODDARD: No, Your Honor. I -- I wouldsubmit that -- that that's not the case.QUESTION: Only the Fifth Circuit has gone theother way.MR. GODDARD: The Fifth Circuit in ACLUFoundation v. Bridges has -- has very convincingly --QUESTION: Yes, but the others went the otherway on it.MR. GODDARD: Your Honor, I could --QUESTION: The Seventh, the Eighth, and theNinth. Right?MR. GODDARD: Your Honor, there is -- islanguage in the Seventh Circuit opinion which speaks aboutthis, but it is in a very limited sense in -- in Dunn v.Kerry. I don't think it's applicable here. I'd be happy th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. to discuss that.I would refer the course also -- the Court also,as our brief does, to First Circuit U.S. Brewers v. Perezinterpreting the Butler Act which is identical in languageto the Tax Injunction Act; to Kraebel v. New York HousingDepartment in the Second Circuit which talks about a taxbenefit.That's what we have on -- at -- at stake here iswe try -- the -- the respondents are trying to draw adivision between all State tax systems to say anythingthat involves raising revenue is challengeable only inState court, but if there's a benefit involved, if there'sanything else that accrues to the benefit of the taxpayer,that has to go Federal court. I believe that's --QUESTION: I don't know about that, but a -- achallenge to a tax credit I think is what we're talkingabout. Right?MR. GODDARD: Well, Your Honor, I don't believethere's any logical distinction between a deduction, anexclusion, an exemption, and a credit. They all --QUESTION: Well, I suppose you could -- Isuppose you could make the argument that it -- it's wrongto say the State is only interested in increasing revenue. The State may be interested in fairness for its taxpayers,giving its taxpayers the -- the benefit of the lower rate. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. That's certainly a -- a sound State policy. MR. GODDARD: Thank you, Your Honor. I -- Ithink that's one of the policies, if not the principalpolicy, behind the Tax Injunction Act is respect for Stateprocedures and also --QUESTION: General Goddard, the -- what we'vebeen talking about is this section of that talksabout assessment, levy, or collection of any debt. Thosethree words fit perfectly into a property tax scheme. They really don't fit nearly as well into an income taxscheme. Are there cases from courts of appeals that saythat the -- the act does apply to income tax as well asproperty tax?MR. GODDARD: Yes, Your Honor, and that distinction -- the cases I'm referring to involve both. And -- and you're absolutely correct. Many of them areproperty tax oriented. That's true of In re Gillis. That's true of several others. Colonial Pipeline isanother that I would cite showing a tax benefit not a taxdeduction to the State.But the most precisely on point is ACLUFoundation v. Bridges from the Fifth Circuit,interestingly after a couple of other cases which mighthave -- which have been cited by the respondents for theirproposition that -- that somehow the revenue -- I mean, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. the State revenue -- things that give revenues to theState are significantly different from items that benefitthe taxpayer. I would submit that under this scheme andunder the scheme that this Court has discussed in the sixcases that -- where it has discussed the Tax InjunctionAct in detail speak about a much broader application.QUESTION: You were going to go to the historyor something else. I -- I don't want you to forget that,and the reason I don't want you to forget is I'm thinkingyours is a plausible interpretation --MR. GODDARD: Thank you, Your Honor. QUESTION: -- that could be -- well, I mean, itcould. I'm about to say maybe it isn't plausible enough.(Laughter.) QUESTION: The -- the -- but what I'm -- whatI'm driving at is that the -- the Congress might have saidthat although Federal courts are in the business quiteoften, along with State courts, of deciding whether aState law is unconstitutional or violates some otherFederal law, and although millions of State laws are veryimportant, we're separating out a set of cases here wherethey can't do it. Now, one reason for doing that would be we don'twant to interfere with States getting money that they needfor their business. And that would limit these words to th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. interferences with collection of revenue.MR. GODDARD: Yes, Your Honor. QUESTION: Now, you were about to explain to mewhy --MR. GODDARD: I -- I would --QUESTION: -- there's evidence that Congresswanted to do more than that.MR. GODDARD: I would greatly appreciate --QUESTION: It wanted to do more than that. Itwanted, in fact, to say you just can't stop them from --you cannot, Federal courts, go and have our tax divisionhere interfered with, even though it doesn't affectcollection of revenue. We -- we don't want you tointerfere with their rules, with their administration, with anything. You can do it for the police department,but not the tax.All right. Now -- now, what's the evidencethat's what -- what Congress wanted?MR. GODDARD: Well, the first evidence is thewords of the statute. They didn't just say collections.QUESTION: All right. The words -- I thinkthey're pretty ambiguous. MR. GODDARD: They -- well, they don't just saycollections, though, Your Honor. QUESTION: No, I know. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. MR. GODDARD: They say assessment and levy. Those words are not modified. QUESTION: Let's go beyond these words.MR. GODDARD: Thank you. Also, the history of the Tax Injunction Act --it comes from a period when the -- the Congress wasreacting to this Court's decision in Ex parte Young, andthey felt that extensive equitable relief against Stateofficials was inappropriate, and they passed several laws,the Johnson Act and the Tax Injunction Act in the ''sbeing the most important, which spoke very broadly aboutkeeping in State courts State proceedings. They did notsay anything about just collections, although --QUESTION: Mr. Goddard, in that -- in that regard, wasn't what Congress had in mind -- it wastaxpayer suits. They didn't want taxpayers to avoid goingthrough the whole process. I mean, most of the cases thatcome up under the Tax Injunction Act are taxpayers who sayplease enjoin the tax or don't assess me or don't levy. But this is not that kind of case. There's no one here who's trying to stop theState from collecting revenue. It's an attack by a non-taxpayer, and that at the time of the Tax Injunction Act,I don't think that kind of action was even on the scene. Do you have any claims where a non-taxpayer was seeking to th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. enjoin the collection of a tax? What they -- what -- what Congress was aiming atis that, taxpayer, you've got a prompt, speedy, efficientremedy in your State, you use that, don't rush to theFederal court.MR. GODDARD: Your -- Your Honor, the -- theCongress had several reasons, and -- and you're absolutelycorrect that one of the primary ones was not allowingtaxpayers, especially out of State, to come in andinterrupt the flow of taxes. I'm not denying that thatwas a -- a very important reason. But as this Court has said in Rosewell v.LaSalle National Bank, if that was the only reason thatthey were concerned about the collection of taxes, they could have said so. They could have said only diversityjurisdiction cases will be barred from Federal court. They did not. They used -- they said essentially districtcourts shall not consider cases to restrain, enjoin, orsuspend actions for the assessment, levy, and collectionof taxes. They also --QUESTION: That was a taxpayer's case too,wasn't it? MR. GODDARD: Excuse me?QUESTION: Wasn't the case you just cited -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. wasn't it -- that also a taxpayer's attempt to --MR. GODDARD: Yes, Your Honor. QUESTION: Yes.MR. GODDARD: It was an assessment on property.QUESTION: So I'm asking you about cases wherewe don't have a taxpayer who's not trying to stop anyassessment of his tax, any -- anything else about --MR. GODDARD: Well, I guess the -- the directcollision, Your Honor, is between the decision below inthe Ninth Circuit and ACLU Foundation v. Bridges --QUESTION: It's the only one that I know.MR. GODDARD: -- which involves a challenge to aspecific tax benefit given to religious organizations inLouisiana. So I believe that's as close as I can come.Your Honor, if I could reserve the balance of mytime, I would like to do so.QUESTION: Very well, General Goddard.Mr. Hungar, we'll hear from you.ORAL ARGUMENT OF THOMAS G. HUNGARON BEHALF OF THE UNITED STATES,AS AMICUS CURIAE, SUPPORTING THE PETITIONERMR. HUNGAR: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court:The position of the United States is thatrespondents' suit is barred by the plain language of the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. Tax Injunction Act because it seeks to enjoin and restrainthe assessment of a tax under State law. And to turn directly to the --QUESTION: May I ask you if you think thelanguage is so plain that we should not even look at thelegislative history?MR. HUNGAR: We think it's -- yes. We thinkthat the -- the language is sufficiently plain thatthere's no need to look at the legislative history, butthat if you do, the legislative history also supports theinterpretation we advance.QUESTION: And Judge Easterbrook was just deadwrong in looking at the legislative history and he alsointerpreted it dead wrong. MR. HUNGAR: Judge -- the case before JudgeEasterbrook, Justice Stevens, was quite different fromthis case. That involved not an -- a -- a suit againsttax -- the tax collector to affect the manner in which thetax collector administered the tax code, but rather a suitagainst private plaintiffs who had brought a State courtaction. It was a Federal court suit to enjoin a Statecourt action. And so the considerations applicable inthat case were obviously quite different from those whatwe have -- where we have presented here. The point of the Tax Injunction Act is to -- to th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. protect the tax collector against Federal court suits toenjoin or restrain the tax collector's assessment,collection, and levy of tax.QUESTION: Does -- does that -- were youfinished your answer?MR. HUNGAR: Yes. QUESTION: The -- the -- if you use the wordenjoin to mean command, which it can mean, can you saythat they are commanding the collection of a tax, contraryto the words of the statute?MR. HUNGAR: Yes. We think that is also quitecorrect here. That was not the issue addressed by theNinth Circuit, but that is certainly another way to get tothe result which we think is the correct result, that the plain language of the statute bars this kind of suit.Turning to the questions about the meaning ofassessment, it is perfectly clear beyond peradventure thatunder -- in the Federal system, the term assessment meansthe tax collector's recorded determination of the amountof tax due under Federal law --QUESTION: Do we have a self-assessment?MR. HUNGAR: No, Your Honor. QUESTION: We don't. MR. HUNGAR: No, Your Honor. QUESTION: Is every -- every taxpayer is th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. assessed?MR. HUNGAR: Yes, Your Honor. The -- the --QUESTION: Every taxpayer is assessed even whenno deficiency is sought?MR. HUNGAR: Yes, Your Honor. The practice ofthe Internal Revenue Service is to assess the amount oftaxes shown on the return if that is -- absent some auditor some reason to think there's an error in the return. And in fact, the Internal Revenue Code so provides. Section --QUESTION: That every taxpayer is assessed evenwhen there's no deficiency.MR. HUNGAR: Correct. Well, if a taxpayer filesa return showing a bottom line calculation of how much tax is due after all credits, deductions, and so forth havebeen taken into account, that amount and -- and the tax --and the IRS checks the addition, concludes that it'saccurate, and is not conducting an audit, that amount isassessed. It's -- it's recorded in the transcript. Now,of course, it's on the computer.QUESTION: You don't have to send them a noticeof -- in other words, I file my income tax. I thoughtthere's some provisions that say if somebody thinks I madea mistake, they have to send me some special notice. Someprocess takes place. We have some other case on this. I th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. thought all that involved an assessment, that it was aparticular thing under the IRC, not just my filing of a --of the return.MR. HUNGAR: The assessment is a particularthing. Under the Internal Revenue Code, it's the -- it'sthe tax collect -- the IRS's determination of the amountof tax --QUESTION: But you just said to Justice Ginsburgthat if nothing happens -- like I try to pay my taxesaccurately. So I file these pieces of paper. And now,nothing happens. They just take the money. They cash thecheck. And -- and you're going to say when that's allthat happened, there was an assessment? I thought it hada particular meaning that wasn't that, that was when you thought I was wrong, you did something and then went afterme. But -- but it just -- everybody is called anassessment? Does it say that in the code where --MR. HUNGAR: U.S.C. . This is not in the-- the briefs. U.S.C. (a)() provides, quote, theSecretary shall assess all taxes determined by thetaxpayer or by the Secretary as to which returns or listsare made under this title. So if the taxpayer hasadmitted on their tax return that they owe X dollars intaxes, the Secretary shall assess that amount and also hasthe discretion to conduct an audit. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. QUESTION: But -- but nobody -- nobody here iscontesting, as far as I can tell, what we were told Mondayis a mere bookkeeping entry. Does it -- does it -- is anotice and demand sent out to everyone who's assessed?MR. HUNGAR: Not if the taxpayer has concededthe amount of liability. That's the point. If thetaxpayer concedes on the return that their liability isX --QUESTION: So why is anybody trying to enjoin abookkeeping entry that nobody knows anything about?MR. HUNGAR: Because assessment is the formaldetermination by the -- by the --QUESTION: But I don't see that there's anyeffort to stop a bookkeeping entry from being made --MR. HUNGAR: There is, Your Honor. QUESTION: -- that nobody gets any notice of anddoesn't -- is -- is, we were told, just a mere bookkeepingentry. That doesn't -- doesn't -- it's not necessary inorder to collect the tax?MR. HUNGAR: But the statute, Justice Ginsburg,doesn't say anything about notice. It says the -- theFederal district courts shall not enjoin the assessment ofa tax under State law. QUESTION: But nobody is seeking to enjoin anyassessment. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. MR. HUNGAR: They -- they are. The plaintiffsare seeking --QUESTION: They -- as assessment being abookkeeping entry that nobody knows anything about. Youjust said you don't need any notice and demand. In theGalletti case, we were told that's what the assessment is. It's a notation in a book someplace. It doesn't even havethe taxpayer's name on it.MR. HUNGAR: If I may answer, Justice Ginsburg. What plaintiffs are seeking to do is prevent and restrainand enjoin the -- the tax department from assessing taxesunder State law in the manner required by State law, whichincludes, as part of the assessment, computation andallowance of the credit where it is due. And the -- andthe suit in this case would preclude the tax collectorfrom doing that if respondents were to succeed. QUESTION: May I ask you --MR. HUNGAR: That's exactly what the actprecludes.QUESTION: -- does the Arizona tax code have aprovision in it comparable to the one that you read us --to us from the Federal code?MR. HUNGAR: I don't believe so, Your Honor. Ibelieve what the Arizona tax code provides --QUESTION: Then it's hardly relevant, is it? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. MR. HUNGAR: -- is that the -- is that the taxcollector there, the Department of Revenue, makes adetermination or reviews the returns and ultimately eitherdetermines that that amount will be accepted, that -- thatthe amount of tax shown on the return is the -- going tobe accepted as the amount of tax due from the taxcollector, or that they're going to try to require some --you know, assess a deficiency or whatever it may be.But in either case, within the meaning ofFederal law, the tax collector's determination of what theamount is due, either if it's the amount shown on return-- on the return or if they think it's a different amount,within the meaning of Federal law, that is the assessment.And that is what the respondents are trying to change. They're trying to require the tax collector toassess taxes not in a manner required under State law,which is the -- the text of the statute, but rather in amanner contrary to State law. QUESTION: Suppose they clarify that they're nottrying to stop a bookkeeping entry from being made inArizona, even though Arizona law doesn't require it, justlike the Feds.MR. HUNGAR: Your Honor, the assessment underState law in Arizona includes the tax credit. Therespondents would change that and would preclude the tax th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. collector from doing that.QUESTION: If they couldn't stop a bookkeepingentry, I assume they couldn't stop the acceptance of thetax in accordance with a bookkeeping entry. Isn't thatright? MR. HUNGAR: That's correct.QUESTION: I -- I assume it's essential to theircase that they stop that ultimate bookkeeping entry whichdetermines how much the taxpayer owes.MR. HUNGAR: Exactly. And the purpose of the --QUESTION: Although we were told that thereisn't that bookkeeping entry in Arizona, that they don'thave it.MR. HUNGAR: Well, Justice Ginsburg, I'mobviously no expert in Arizona tax law. I'm informed thatthe tax collector looks at the returns when they come in,checks the addition, and in a certain number of cases goesfurther.QUESTION: But that's not what you described asthe assessment. MR. HUNGAR: The assessment is the taxcollector's recorded determination of the amount due.QUESTION: Which we were told they don't have inArizona. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. MR. HUNGAR: Well, it -- again, I think forpurposes of Federal law, it -- it is not unreasonable toassume that the tax collector in Arizona decides whetherthey're going to accept the amount of return shown on thetax as --for --QUESTION: And keeps a record of it.MR. HUNGAR: And keeps a record of it. Exactly.QUESTION: I mean, he must keep a record of itMR. HUNGAR: Exactly, exactly. Now, theAttorney General can address that, but -- but that's myunderstanding of Arizona law.QUESTION: Isn't the case just simpler if we sayyou cannot command the collection of a tax, which is what's happening here?MR. HUNGAR: Yes, Justice Kennedy. That -- thatis exactly right. That is -- that is entirely consistentwith the United States' view of and interpretation of thisact and the Anti-Injunction Act. And it's also consistent with the legislativehistory and purposes of the act. This Court hasrepeatedly recognized, in Justice O'Connor's opinion forthe -- for the Court in the Grace Brethren case and inother cases, that the purpose of the act sweeps morebroadly than simply a focus on collection and -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. QUESTION: But those were all taxpayers tryingto stop the collection of tax from them.MR. HUNGAR: Yes, Justice Ginsburg, but theCourt did not say that the purpose and scope of the act islimited to that context, nor is the language limited tothat context. To the contrary, the Court said this -- theact sweeps broadly to prevent Federal court interferencein the administration of -- of State tax systems. QUESTION: But wouldn't you agree that theprimary purpose of the statute was to protect the State'sfisc?MR. HUNGAR: That is certainly a primary purposeof the statute.QUESTION: And insofar as that purpose is relevant, you lose on that purpose.MR. HUNGAR: It's -- it's not applicable here,although I think it is important to recognize that itwould be quite extraordinary for Federal courts to be inthe business of ordering State tax collectors to collect-- to collect taxes from their citizens that thelegislature of the State had deemed should not becollected.QUESTION: It's curious that the Moore's FederalPractice and Wright and Miller and Hart and Wechsler allsuggest that the Tax Injunction Act does not prevent a th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. challenge in Federal court to the constitutionality ofState tax credits. They seem uniform in that view.MR. HUNGAR: Well, I think some of those quotes,if I recall correctly, Justice O'Connor, deal with -- theysay the -- the Tax Injunction Act does not apply to suitsto collect taxes, which is a different situation thanhere.credits. QUESTION: Well, they speak in terms of taxHas this Court taken some cases that appear tofly in the face of your theory and just not said anythingabout it?MR. HUNGAR: This Court in two or three casesidentified by respondents has not addressed the Tax Injunction Act where it might be -- it might be relevant.Thank you. QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. Hungar.Mr. Cohen, we'll hear from you.ORAL ARGUMENT OF MARVIN S. COHENON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTSMR. COHEN: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it pleasethe Court:I'll begin by stating what our position is. TheTax Injunction Act and the associated principles of comityonly -- only -- apply when a district court is asked to th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. stop the flow of revenue to the State. For more than years, the act and the associated principles of comityhave been applied only when claimants sought to stop theflow of tax revenues. The decisions of this Court supportthis.In challenges to tax credits, the Tax InjunctionAct has been either not considered at all by this Court orin other Federal courts has specifically -- they'vespecifically held, except in Bridges last summer --they've specifically held that the Tax Injunction Act didnot apply.It -- this is -- also our position is consistentwith the revenue protective purpose of the Tax InjunctionAct and common sense supports this. If there's no threatto the flow of State revenue -- State tax revenues, thenthe administration of the State tax laws is the same asthe administration of education laws and penal laws --QUESTION: Mr. Cohen, going back to thelanguage, assessment, levy, or collection of any tax,which was the subject of questions to your -- youropponent, you don't question, do you, that the statuteapplies to income taxes as well as to property taxes?MR. COHEN: Mr. Chief Justice, we don't questionthat.QUESTION: And would you question its th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. applicability if the -- the State could not point to aparticular act of assessment or levy or collection in itsprocedures? MR. COHEN: Your Honor, we view the phrase,enjoin, suspend, or restrain the assessment, levy, orcollection, as a phrase. We -- we don't believe that anyone word there has special meanings. That phrase has beeninterpreted by the courts to say that the process ofcausing a flow of tax revenues to the State will not bestopped. QUESTION: You mean I -- I can't read thisstatute to say that the district court shall not enjointhe collection of a tax? I have to read all the otherthings with it? That -- that's a very strange interpretation of any statute.MR. COHEN: Justice Kennedy, the -- let's take a-- I -- I believe the idea was that there is a process. The -- at the time the word assessment was first used, itwas in the Federal Anti-Injunction Act, which was themodel for the Tax Injunction Act in , as this Courtheld in Jefferson County. And at that time if a -- and a-- the assessment process which was valuing property -- ifthat had been stopped, then -- then they wouldn't get tothe collection phase, or if they stopped the levy phase,they wouldn't get to the collection phase. So it's a -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. the concept was that it took these three things to makethe flow of revenue come to the State.And that while individuals have an option underthe section and together to choose either theFederal or State courts in which to vindicate theirconstitutional rights, the Congress decided that theyshould not have that option if it could interfere -- if itcould stop the flow of revenues to the State --QUESTION: Let's assume --MR. COHEN: -- but it didn't go farther thanthat.QUESTION: Let's assume it means just that.MR. COHEN: Yes.QUESTION: And -- and let's assume that -- thatyou get your injunction in a Federal district courtagainst the Secretary of State's collection of this tax. What is the Secretary of State to do? His -- his Statestatute tells him that he should collect less. Thisinjunction says he should collect more. He will appealthe case from the district court to the court of appeals. Meanwhile, what is he to do? He is not authorized byState law, which he thinks is valid, to collect more.It seems to me during the whole period whilethat -- that case is on appeal from the district court tothe court of appeals to the Supreme Court, if it gets th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. here, the Secretary of State doesn't know what to do, andhis collection of the tax is impaired.MR. COHEN: Justice Scalia --QUESTION: Why isn't that so?MR. COHEN: The -- two -- two answers, if -- ifyou allow me. The first is that the district court, ofcourse, has the power to stay the effectiveness of thatjudgment until there is a final decision, and he could beasked --QUESTION: Well, then the statute wouldn't applyI suppose. It just says it shall not enjoin. We'reassuming it has enjoined. If your reading is correct, itshould be able to enjoin because there's nothing wrongwith enjoining. Okay?Let's assume it does enjoin. Does that notinterfere with the collection, even if you think thatthat's -- that's all that's at issue is the collection oftaxes? How is the State going to collect its taxes?MR. COHEN: Justice Scalia, the statute does notsay interfere. The statute talks about stopping thecollection, and this would not stop the collection. Itwould -- it would allow the collection --QUESTION: You have a much narrower position. Your earlier position was this whole purpose was just toprotect the State's tax revenue and so long as it doesn't th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. impair that. Now you say it can impair that so long as itdoes not enjoin it. That's a much narrower position.MR. COHEN: Justice Scalia, I'm not saying that. I -- I -- you --QUESTION: I thought that's what --MR. COHEN: I must have misspoke myself becausewhat I am saying is that they can't stop the collection oftaxes and that this would not stop the collection.QUESTION: But the statute doesn't say stop. Itsays enjoin and enjoin can mean -- can mean command.MR. COHEN: In Jefferson --QUESTION: And that's exactly what you're doing. You're commanding the collection of the tax.MR. COHEN: Justice Kennedy, in Jefferson County, this Court unanimously interpreted the statute tosay stop the collection. That's what this Court said inJefferson County, and there are a number of cases in whicha commandment seeking to command the payment of taxes hasbeen held to be outside the Tax Injunction Act.QUESTION: Can I bring you -- can I bring youback to my question which I don't think I got an answerto? What is the Secretary of State supposed to do? Hehas gotten an order from a Federal district court tocollect more taxes than he is authorized to collect underState law. He intends to appeal that district court th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. order, but meanwhile, he has been enjoined fromcollecting. What is he supposed to do?MR. COHEN: Justice Scalia, he obeys the orderof the court and he's -- he's only enjoined from --QUESTION: Well, that means --MR. COHEN: He's only enjoined with regard tothe tax credit. He's not enjoined from collecting the taxwhich includes not honoring the tax credit.QUESTION: And I take that -- I take it that'sthe answer to -- to Justice Kennedy's question, that hisobligation to collect the tax is an obligation under Statelaw, and once he is enjoined from recognizing the credit,he simply follows State law and collects the tax withoutreference to the credit. The Federal court, conversely, doesn't say, you go out and collect the tax. The Statelaw does that. Is -- is -- do you buy that?MR. COHEN: Yes, absolutely.QUESTION: He believes the district courtdecision is wrong, and let's assume it is wrong. What ishe supposed to do while it is on appeal?MR. COHEN: Unless it -- Your Honor, unless itis stayed, he is to obey it, and --QUESTION: And that does not --MR. COHEN: It does not interfere with thecollection -- with the flow -- it does not interfere with th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. the flow of revenue to the State, and that's what the TaxInjunction Act is basically about. QUESTION: He -- he obeys the injunction and heobeys State law except with respect to the credit which heis enjoined from giving.MR. COHEN: I agree, Your Honor. QUESTION: And the result is that he collectsthe -- the full tax. That's the way it would work.MR. COHEN: That's correct, Your Honor. QUESTION: Suppose -- suppose the State law saysif these tax credits are invalidated, all other taxpayersshall be assessed an additional percent to make up for-- I'm sorry. If these -- if these tax credits areinvalidated, other taxpayers shall be -- their taxes shall be reduced by percent. Okay? I mean, the -- the Statelooks forward to this possibility that there will be aninjunction. What is the Secretary of State to do then? Is he to assess everybody else at a lesser amount?MR. COHEN: Your Honor, I believe --QUESTION: In other words, he is prevented fromcollecting the additional amount that he would have had tocollect from other taxpayers had this tax credit beenacknowledged. The tax credit is struck down, and what thelaw says is, if it's struck down, you have to collect morefrom everybody else. Now, I assume in that situation the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. district court would not be able to enjoin the collection,would it? So all you're talking about is whether the Statelaw is -- is drafted in a clever way or not.MR. COHEN: Your Honor, if -- if the tax creditis struck down, the State gets more money. It has no needto assess an additional or percent of its taxpayers. But if -- if the State in its wisdom chose to do so, thenwhoever collects taxes would obey the State law untilanother case came to court and another judge told themwhat to do.QUESTION: All right. So -- so there would besome interference. But what do you do about the word?I mean, I'm somewhat shaken by the fact that the -- the Internal Revenue Code does -- as I have just read and , it does use that word assessment asapparently to refer simply to the record keeping functionof the tax division which it says under rules andregulations the assessment shall be made by recording theliability of the taxpayer in the Office of the Secretary. And therefore, what it seems to have in mind in the IRC isa simple bookkeeping notation of how much money thistaxpayer owes which takes place in every case.Now, the -- the act says there shall be no suitthat restrains the assessment of that tax; i.e., you th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. cannot restrain the Secretary in noting the amount thatthe taxpayer owes. Now, they're saying stop right there. End ofthe matter. Now, what in your opinion overcomes thatargument? MR. COHEN: Your Honor, Justice Breyer, it'sinteresting about the Internal Revenue Code and the -- theFederal income tax law because there is a corollary to theTax Injunction Act: the Anti-Injunction Act of . Andit uses the word assessment. And there are a number ofFederal court decisions saying that that does not apply totax credits. And in each --QUESTION: That's not an answer for thereason --MR. COHEN: May I --QUESTION: -- that they're saying they're wrong,just as they say we were wrong in five cases not to noticethis. So continue, please.MR. COHEN: Yes. None of them -- none of themlooked at the word assessment in isolation. What itlooked at -- what those cases looked at was the phrase, as-- as I've suggested to the Court, that the phraseassessment, levy, and collection is the process ofcreating the flow of revenue.QUESTION: But it isn't and; it's or. Isn't it? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. MR. COHEN: The -- Justice Scalia, it -- it isor for purposes of saying that you can't restrain any ofthose because if you restrain any of those in the contextof creating the stream of revenue, you have stopped thestream of revenue. And that -- that's what history of theact shows, the purpose of the act.QUESTION: So your answer is this. You sayindeed they've got it correctly defined. Indeed, it saysassessment. It says assessment, levy, or collection. Butthat phrase does not refer to every assessment, levy, orcollection. Rather, in context it refers to thoseassessments, levies, and collections that will have, werethey enjoined, the impact of cutting the revenue streamflowing to the State.MR. COHEN: That's our position, Your Honor. QUESTION: That's your view. So we should lookat that in context. That's why you go to the history andthese other things. MR. COHEN: That's correct, Your Honor. QUESTION: All right. I understand. MR. COHEN: I -- I would like to also point outto the Court that this use of a tax credit as a mechanismcould also to -- that is to funnel money to school tuitionorganizations could just as well have been anappropriation of dollars and vouchers. And if instead the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. State was giving vouchers to school tuition organizations, percent of which went to religious schools, there wouldbe no question about the individual citizen's option tochoose to go to the Federal court.QUESTION: But it wasn't done that way. I mean,it's just like saying it could have been extracted bytorture too, and that would have been clearlyunconstitutional. (Laughter.) QUESTION: But that happens not to be the way itwas done. MR. COHEN: That's correct, Your Honor, but inNyquist this Court particularly pointed out that a taxcredit was the same as giving money to the State. That --that was this Court dealing with a tax credit that --where the money was used to support religious schools,which is just what we're asserting here.QUESTION: Mueller certainly distinguished thatpart of Nyquist.MR. COHEN: I'm sorry, Mr. Chief Justice. Ididn't --QUESTION: The Mueller against Allen case surelydistinguished that part of Nyquist. I mean, it's muchless valuable to -- after Mueller than it was beforeMueller. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. MR. COHEN: Mr. Chief Justice, Mueller was a taxdeduction case rather than a tax credit case. In a taxcredit case --QUESTION: Why should -- why should that makeany difference to your argument? MR. COHEN: It -- generally, it wouldn't, but atax credit is every dollar that goes to the benefit of theschool tuition organization -- if it wasn't given to them,every dollar of that would go to the State. In a taxdeduction, a tax deduction is a more generalized --helping to support charity, and only a portion of thatmoney goes to the State --QUESTION: Yes. It may be -- it may be asmaller amount, but in both cases it goes to the person who -- who claims it.MR. COHEN: Mr. Chief Justice, that's correct,but it's a smaller percentage. My use of tax credit withNyquist is that that's an unusual feature of Nyquist isit's dollar for dollar. In Mueller, there was the --there were a number of considerations when you deal with atax deduction. They're a little different than taxcredit, and this Court has recognized those. Generallythey are tax benefits and generally they are to beconsidered outside the Tax Injunction Act according to thecases. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. QUESTION: Is the point you're making is -- isit's the taxpayer who's designating a certain portion ofmoney which would otherwise go to the general revenueswill instead go to this charitable purpose. It's kind oflike on the Federal return where you can check off and sayI want $ -- instead of going to general revenues, it goesto fund campaign -- to presidential elections.MR. COHEN: Justice --QUESTION: That's on the -- that's what this is,isn't it?MR. COHEN: Justice Ginsburg, that's exactlyright. That's what I'm saying. And if you have no further questions --QUESTION: I have --QUESTION: I do. I do have one.QUESTION: Don't kid yourself.QUESTION: Go on. Go first.QUESTION: I just want to make sure I didn'tmiss something in your argument, Mr. Cohen. Talking aboutthe history of this statute, did you refer to an earlierstatute that used the similar language in the same order,assessment, levy, and collection or collection and levy,whichever it is, and that that statute only applied toreal estate taxes? Was that -- did you say that? I wantto make sure I didn't -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. MR. COHEN: Justice Stewart, I was referring tothe Anti-Injunction Act of --QUESTION: Right. MR. COHEN: -- in which the word levy was notused. It was assessment or collection, and I said it wasin the context of valuation then because there was noincome tax in . And that could be -- for instance, Iknow there weren't Federal property taxes, but it could bein -- in valuation of -- of property for tariffs coming inor things of that nature. The word assessment then wasnot used in the context of the income tax laws. That'sall I was saying because there were none.QUESTION: And -- and it would be perfectlynatural in the real estate tax context to use them in thatorder because the assessment comes first. Whereas, theargument of your opponents here is the assessment is thelast thing in the chain of events, which seems somewhatcounter-intuitive if you're -- when you're referring toincome taxes.MR. COHEN: I -- I agree, Justice Stewart.QUESTION: See, this -- in -- in -- do you knowthis in State tax systems? Apparently in the Federal taxsystem assessment refers to an official determination ofthe amount that the individual taxpayer owes. Now, thereare State systems plus the District of Columbia. Do th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. you know if there are a significant number of States thatwould not consider that official determination of theamount owed to be an assessment? MR. COHEN: Mr. Justice Breyer, no, I do notknow. We haven't done a survey of the States.QUESTION: But the question I was going to putwas you -- you say that the -- the principal purpose ofthis law was to protect the fisc of the State. And I --you know, I will concede that, that -- that what Congresswas most concerned about was preventing somebody fromstopping the State from collecting money. But it's notunusual that Congress drafts its prohibitions broader thanis necessary to achieve just the narrow purpose. And ifindeed they -- they prohibited not just stopping the collection but also stopping the assessment, it seems tome we have to take the statute for what it says, if indeedthis is an assessment. And the mere fact that it goesbeyond what the principal purpose was, I mean, that --that's often the case with statutes.MR. COHEN: Justice Scalia, the State contendsand the United States both contend that this statute is --the purpose of it was to stop any court -- Federal courtinterference with the tax administration process itself. And the -- the Federal court decisions, other thanBridges, reject that point of view. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. And this Court rejected that point of view inJefferson County when the -- the issue there was that thecounty had sued in the State court against Federal judgesto try to get an occupational tax. And the Federal judgesremoved the case to Federal court, and the county said,well, the Tax Injunction Act applies here because theFederal judges are going to raise State tax issues andthis Federal court will be deciding cases having to dowith State tax administration. And they cited theKelleher case out of the Second Circuit which it held thatthe Tax Injunction Act was so broad that it applied to tax-- all State tax administration. And this Court rejectedthat position, and this Court I believe unanimouslyoverruled Kelleher. So we --QUESTION: Mr. Cohen, we are ships passing inthe night because you're -- I don't care what the purposewas. I care what the language says, and my point is thatvery often the language goes beyond the narrow purposethat Congress had in mind. And when -- when the languagedoes so, we read the statute as it's written, but youdon't -- don't agree with that apparently. We -- we haveto intuit the purpose and limit the language no matterwhat it says to that purpose.MR. COHEN: Mr. Justice, I -- I'm saying thatfor years with the Tax Injunction Act and for years th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. -- no -- I guess years with the Anti-Injunction Act that is the way the Federal courts -- the way we'resuggesting is the way the Federal courts have interpretedthis language.And we suggest that if there's a problem, aslong as the tax revenue is flowing to the State and we'renot interfering -- we're not stopping that, if there's aproblem with -- with that system that's been there nowfor, oh, , years for States, years for theFederal fisc, if there's a problem, the States can takethat problem to Congress to change this exemption. Thisis an exemption from the Federal jurisdiction, which underthe Phillips case is to be narrowly construed. If -- ifthey -- if there's a real problem -- and I suggest there is not because the money will continue to flow to theState notwithstanding our -- the Federal courtjurisdiction here.And we believe that the law should not bechanged and we request that the -- this Court remain withthe past years and years of judicial experience onthis issue.Thank you very --QUESTION: Mr. Cohen --QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. Cohen. General Goddard, you have minutes remaining. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF SAMUEL GODDARDON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERMR. GODDARD: Thank you, Your Honor. If -- if I may go to the overriding principlehere because I think to some extent that's what governsthe actions of the State and should be appropriate here.As this Court said in -- many years ago underthe principle of comity, which Mr. Cohen referred to,comity refers to the scrupulous regard for the rightfulindependence of State governments which should at alltimes actuate the Federal courts and a proper reluctanceto interfere by injunction with their fiscal operations. That's Matthews v. Rodgers. QUESTION: What -- what happened in -- in Nyquist and Mueller? Is that just the Court overlookedit?MR. GODDARD: Your -- Your Honor, the Court didnot deal in any way with the issue of -- of section in either Nyquist or Mueller, and I believe under -- underyour decision in DeBuono there is -- which also deals with and the failure to raise it, there can be apresumption that the escape clause was exercised. It is-- if there is no plain, speedy, or adequate remedy underState law, obviously jurisdiction in the Federal court isappropriate. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. QUESTION: But there -- one sees plain, speedy,and effective --MR. GODDARD: Efficient. QUESTION: -- that's a taxpayer who has to gothrough the system. But that -- that's -- how does thatfit when it's a non-taxpayer who's stopping -- who's --who's trying to declare a credit unconstitutional? This-- this quick, speedy remedy is -- is that the taxpayergets a refund remedy, gets a deficiency, whatever it is,but how does this swift -- how does that play intosomebody who is not a taxpayer?MR. GODDARD: Your Honor, in -- in the Anti-Injunction Act, that creates a serious problem. In the --in this issue -- and I think that a critical thing is these -- these taxpayers have a remedy at State law. Thiscase was decided by the Arizona Supreme Court in Kottermanv. Killian, and this -- this -- the Supreme Court deniedcert years ago. The exact same issues that have beenbrought forward in Federal court by the petitioners inthis case were decided by the Arizona Supreme Court underthe Arizona constitution and the United StatesConstitution, and there was not an establishment issue inthis case. And that brings me back --QUESTION: I meant within the meaning of the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. Injunction Act, it seems that swift, whatever, remedy wasreferring to the taxpayer's remedy under State law --MR. GODDARD: Yes.QUESTION: -- could take care of --MR. GODDARD: Yes, Your Honor, and under theFederal law there's a problem because you can't pay a taxand get it refunded if you're a third party. But inArizona law, there is standing for -- for these partiesand that's already been exercised. They're trying to takeanother shot by going into Federal court and trying to getan -- another opinion which will deviate from the ArizonaSupreme Court. And excuse me. If I could refer --QUESTION: The same plaintiffs? If it's thesame plaintiffs, you would have a -- a --MR. GODDARD: Your Honor, I -- I didn't mean toimply they were the same plaintiffs, but they were exactlythe same issues in turning a constitutional violation.If I could to Justice Scalia's earlier question,as the -- as the legal representative of the ArizonaDepartment of Revenue, if there were an adverse decisionin the -- in the district court of Arizona -- and ourSupreme Court has already spoken on the same issue -- Ihave a very hard time advising a client as to what theyshould do going forward in terms of honoring, under th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. Arizona law, the school tax credit.QUESTION: We have that same problem in habeassometimes too when the State Supreme Court disagrees withthe Federal district court. MR. GODDARD: Yes, Your Honor, but in thesituation in habeas, we don't have the Tax Injunction Act. We don't have a specific legislative bar that says therewill not be jurisdiction in the district court if there isa plain, speedy, and efficient remedy at the State court.And I believe that is -- it doesn't tolerate any -- anydegrees of variation. As this Court has said, it's --it's automatic. There is -- it is -- there are noexceptions.CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: Thank you, General Goddard. The case is submitted. (Whereupon, at : a.m., the case in theabove-entitled matter was submitted.) th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. 