 IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES- - - - - - - - - - - - - XDESERT PALACE, INC., DBA :CAESARS PALACE HOTEL & :CASINO, Petitioner ::v. : No. -CATHARINA F. COSTA. :- - - - - - - - - - - - - XWashington, D.C.Monday, April , The above-entitled matter came on for oralargument before the Supreme Court of the United States at: a.m.APPEARANCES:MARK J. RICCIARDI, ESQ., Las Vegas, Nevada; on behalf ofthe Petitioner.IRVING L. GORNSTEIN, ESQ., Assistant to the SolicitorGeneral, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; onbehalf of the United States, as amicus curiae,supporting the Petitioner.ROBERT N. PECCOLE, ESQ., Las Vegas, Nevada; on behalf ofthe Respondent. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC C O N T E N T SORAL ARGUMENT OF MARK J. RICCIARDI, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioner IRVING L. GORNSTEIN, ESQ.On behalf of the United States,as amicus curiae, supporting the Petitioner ROBERT N. PECCOLE, ESQ.On behalf of the Respondent REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OFMARK J. RICCIARDI, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioner PAGE th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC P R O C E E D I N G S(: a.m.)CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: We'll hear argumentnext in No. -, the Desert Palace, doing business asCaesars Palace Hotel, v. Costa.Mr. Ricciardi. Am I pronouncing your namecorrectly?ORAL ARGUMENT OF MARK J. RICCIARDION BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERMR. RICCIARDI: It's Ricciardi, sir.QUESTION: Mr. Ricciardi.MR. RICCIARDI: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court:This case involves the extraordinary situationin the law where the burden of proof is shifted to a defendant. Courts have recognized this type of burdenshift in certain limited situations, certain torts, and in this Court recognized that burden shift in Title VIIcases.We are here today because the court below hasheld and the respondent argues that the Civil Rights ActAmendment of shifts the burden of proof to thedefendant in virtually all Title VII disparate treatmentcases. That conclusion does not follow from the text ofthe Civil Rights Act, nor does it make sense based on this th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC Court's history of fashioning the orderly presentation ofproof in Title VII cases.The Civil Rights Act of was passed in partas a response to certain decisions of this Court. One ofthose decisions was Price Waterhouse v. Hopkins where theCourt recognized that in certain limited situations in aTitle VII disparate treatment case, when the plaintiffpresents direct evidence of an unlawful motive that wasactually relied upon in making a decision, the burden ofcausation then shifts to the defendant.The Price Waterhouse mixed-motive frameworkapplies to a narrow subset of cases. The Court recognizedearly on in Title VII that most of these cases will becircumstantial evidence cases, and as a way to deal withthat, the McDonnell Douglas case set up a framework for considering the vast majority of those cases. In the fewcases where there is direct evidence of illegal animustied to an employment decision, the Court said that thedefendant must now prove that it would have made the samedecision either way.QUESTION: And what is your definition of directevidence, Mr. Ricciardi?MR. RICCIARDI: There's two definitions thatwe've briefed, Your Honor. Both of them I think arehelpful. The first one is quoted in the SG's brief at th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC page , and that's from the EEOC guidance. And I'll readthat. Any written or verbal policy or statement made by arespondent or a respondent official that on its facedemonstrates a bias against a protected group and islinked to the complained-of adverse action.We proposed, Your Honor, in our blue brief aslightly different formulation, but I believe it gets youto the same place. On page of our blue brief,borrowing from the First Circuit Febres case, a three-part test which we think gets you to the same place. Thefirst is there has to be a statement by a decisionmaker;second, that directly reflects the alleged animus; andthird, that it bears squarely on the contested employmentdecision.QUESTION: The first -- the first of those three is -- goes beyond what the -- what the Government -- theEEOC guideline would require, doesn't it? As I understandthe EEOC guideline, it doesn't require that -- that theindication come from a decisionmaker.MR. RICCIARDI: You're correct, Your Honor. Thewords of the EEOC are the respondent or respondentofficial. Yes, so it does go a bit beyond. I -- I --QUESTION: Although the fact that it has to bearupon the decision, it's hard to get there without --MR. RICCIARDI: Well, I think maybe -- th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC QUESTION: -- pinning it on a decisionmakersomehow.MR. RICCIARDI: What could be contemplated Iguess is a respondent official, who's maybe even higherthan the decisionmaker, makes the statement.QUESTION: Yes.MR. RICCIARDI: The Civil Rights Act of sets out a new section, and we've set it out in appendixA.QUESTION: Of your brief?MR. RICCIARDI: Of the brief, of the blue brief,Your Honor. It sets out U.S.C. e-(m), which was(a) of the Civil Rights Act. And that described thatan unlawful employment practice would be established whenthe complaining party demonstrates that race, color, religion, sex, or national origin was a motivating factorfor any employment practice. And then this is the keylanguage: even though other factors also motivated thepractice.This indicates that Congress intended for thereto be the distinction, recognized in Price Waterhouse,between the standard McDonnell Douglas pretext case, whichyou prove under e-(a), and the mixed-motive casewhich was first recognized in Price Waterhouse.The second part of the text that evidences this th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC distinction is section (b) of the Civil Rights Actwhich is codified there in that same place at e-(g)()(B), and that talks about where an individualproves a violation under (m) that -- and where theemployer does not succeed in proving -- excuse me -- wherethe employer does succeed in proving the affirmativedefense, then in that case the plaintiff is entitled onlyto declaratory relief, injunctive relief, and attorneys'fees demonstrated to be directly attributable only to thepursuit of a claim under section e-(m).QUESTION: Mr. Ricciardi, would thatdemonstration by the defendant also have to be made bydirect evidence? The words Congress used is the same. One is respondent demonstrates, and the other is theplaintiff demonstrates.MR. RICCIARDI: The word demonstrate is usedtwice, Your Honor, but I do not agree that the respondentor the defendant or the employer has any heightenedstandard. And the reason I say that is because in orderto interpret the burdens of proof, this Court historicallylooks at background principles. And when we look at thisstatute, using the Court's background principles ofMcDonnell Douglas for the standard pretext case and PriceWaterhouse for the standard mixed-motive case, there's noheightened evidentiary standard for the respondent or the th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC employer.QUESTION: Well, the question whether there is,you would be suggesting a rule that, as far as I know, isalien to our law, that is, to make a distinction betweendirect evidence and circumstantial evidence. You can havedirect evidence by a liar and you can have highlyconvincing circumstantial evidence. So why would the lawin this one area make a distinction that, as far as Iknow, is not made elsewhere?MR. RICCIARDI: Your Honor, I believe thedistinction is made because the shifting of the burden tothe defendant in employment cases is an unusual thing. Itdoes not happen in other areas of the law. Courts need abright line rule in order to --QUESTION: It is -- it is unquestionably -- it was unquestionably made in Price Waterhouse, wasn't it?MR. RICCIARDI: Absolutely, Your Honor.QUESTION: I mean, that's what it said.MR. RICCIARDI: Price Waterhouse --QUESTION: What -- what was it -- the it thatwas said in Price Waterhouse? Not in the -- not in theplurality opinion. The direct evidence rule doesn't comeout of a plurality --QUESTION: Concurring opinion.MR. RICCIARDI: Well -- th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC QUESTION: It came out of a concurring opinionthat bore my name, did it not?(Laughter.)MR. RICCIARDI: That is correct, Your Honor.QUESTION: Yes. And I don't think it appearedin the plurality opinion, nor in Justice White'sconcurring opinion, did it?MR. RICCIARDI: No, it did not, Your Honor. What I believe the --QUESTION: I know a number of courts havefollowed it, but I -- it's hard to extract a -- a ruleunder those circumstances.MR. RICCIARDI: I -- I --QUESTION: Congress, in making its amendments in, did not mention anything about direct evidence, did it?MR. RICCIARDI: No, it did not, Your Honor.And -- and I think there are two things that --that we have to look at. One of them is the pluralityopinion did in -- in note state that -- that itsformulation was not meaningfully different from JusticeO'Connor's concurrence. For what -- for what that'sworth, that's there. And another way I think to look atthe direct evidence picture is that six Justices of theSupreme Court all found that the facts in Price Waterhouse th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC were sufficient to have a mixed-motive burden shift.QUESTION: Fine. So that's what I took thestatement -- I mean, far be it from me to characterizesomebody else's opinion, but I thought the statement wassimply saying, and here this is an added feature thatshows how right the majority is and that's true in thatcase, but what is there that suggests that it's not justan added feature showing the majority was right in thatcase, but that you have to have it and can't have anythingthat isn't direct evidence.MR. RICCIARDI: Well, Your Honor, I think --QUESTION: Where does it say that?MR. RICCIARDI: I think we get that from goingback to background principles. The McDonnell Douglasdecision, which has still been followed and has been referred to by this Court, is the rubric that's used forcircumstantial evidence cases.QUESTION: But wait I didn't -- then I probablyam unclear about it. What I thought happened is thatPrice -- that McDonnell Douglas governs a circumstancewhere a plaintiff puts on a case, however he puts it on. Once you show the McDonnell Douglas factors, you can getto the jury unless, of course, the defendant putssomething on. And once the defendant puts something on,McDonnell Douglas bursts and goes away. Now, am I right th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC about that or not?MR. RICCIARDI: That is correct, Your Honor. And the plaintiff --QUESTION: All right. Then -- then I don't seewhat McDonnell Douglas has to do with this because I wouldthink percent of the cases in which there is a mixedmotive are going to come up because the defendant willsay, I did it for a different reason, and the plaintiffwill come back and say, you did it for both reasons. So Ithink in percent of the cases, we're not going to haveany McDonnell Douglas involved.MR. RICCIARDI: I -- I --QUESTION: It will just be -- am I right or not?MR. RICCIARDI: I -- I don't agree with that,Your Honor. The reason is because in -- if you look at the facts on the classic mixed-motive cases -- Mt.Healthy, for example, and -- and that was a casespecifically relied upon in Justice White's concurrence. There we had a school district in a written letter makingan admission, yes, we considered the illegal aspect ofyour First Amendment rights. And then we have PriceWaterhouse where, on the facts it's uncontested that thewritten evaluations by those partners, which were reliedupon by the policy board, used sexual stereotypes.QUESTION: Did -- did the defendants in those th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC two cases put on any evidence?MR. RICCIARDI: I would -- I would imagine theyabsolutely did, Your Honor.QUESTION: Yes, so do I. So neither of thosecases does McDonnell Douglas have to do with anything,because they aren't involved in the case I gather, if I'mright, once the defendant put on some evidence.MR. RICCIARDI: That is correct, Your Honor.QUESTION: All right. So my question really issince McDonnell Douglas doesn't have much to do with thecases in which mixed motive comes up, why does -- why areyou talking about McDonnell Douglas? What has McDonnellDouglas to do with the background rule? Why isn't thebackground rule just -- well, what your opponents aresaying?MR. RICCIARDI: Well, because, Your Honor, thebackgrounds rule enables us to deal with the cases wherethere is not direct evidence of the illegal motivation,and those cases will be rare. And if you look at Mt.Healthy and if you look at the facts -- Price Waterhousefacts, in the concurrence by Justice O'Connor in PriceWaterhouse, it says, the employer has created uncertaintyas to causation by knowingly giving substantial weight toan impermissible criteria. I believe these cases will befew and far between where you -- th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC QUESTION: Mr. Ricciardi, can we go back to thebackground, which I find very difficult to understandbecause if an elevated proof standard is wanted, thencourts not uncommonly will say, we will require you toprove something by more than a mere preponderance. Wewill require you to prove this by clear and convincingevidence. Then I can understand. But a line betweendirect evidence and circumstantial evidence -- is thereany other area where direct evidence counts for more thansubstantial evidence just by virtue of being direct?MR. RICCIARDI: I have not uncovered ones, YourHonor. I think that is what the Court in Price Waterhousewas faced with, and I think it's a bright line rule thatwould give our trial judges the ability --QUESTION: Then how do you get it out of Price Waterhouse when it's in the opinion, as Justice O'Connorsaid? Her opinion. There were four people who didn't saydirect evidence. There was Justice White who said asubstantial factor, but didn't say direct evidence. That's a lot to load on two words in a concurring opinion.MR. RICCIARDI: Well, Your Honor, unfortunatelybecause of the fractured opinions there, we have had torely on, besides the actual words on the page, we had torely on, what -- the way the circuits have read the case-- and they have all consistently -- almost all th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC consistently read it as having a heightened evidentiarystandard and --QUESTION: Well, wouldn't heightened ordinarily be clear and convincing evidence, whether direct orcircumstantial?MR. RICCIARDI: Your Honor, it might ordinarily,but I believe in employment cases it's very difficult todo. In employment cases we have stray remarks, we haverumors, we have maybe documents that are --QUESTION: Sure. But doesn't -- doesn't astandard like clear and convincing address that kind ofproblem? If all you have are stray remarks that, youknow, cannot be taken as company policy, et cetera, thenyou're going to have a hard time getting to the clear andconvincing standard. I don't see why the -- the quality of evidence, direct or indirect, is -- is necessary toaddress that problem as opposed to the -- to the quantumof proof, clear and convincing versus preponderance.MR. RICCIARDI: Your Honor, I think that you'reputting too much weight on the shoulders of the trialjudges. In our case, our trial judge was convinced thatthere was direct evidence, and he was sifting through whatwe believed amounted to nothing more than a pile ofcircumstantial evidence. And I think had he had theguidance of the bright line rule, it would have been th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC easier for him.QUESTION: Can you explain to me -- and you'rethe expert on this, I'm not. You try a lot of thesecases. When I look at it, being naive in this area, sinceI'm not trying a lot of them, I think, well, this -- thisseems to make perfectly good sense. A plaintiff comes inand has to show that the bad motive was a motivatingfactor. Well, once the plaintiff has shown that, whyshouldn't the plaintiff win? And if, by the way, thedefendant can come in and show that she would have beenfired anyway because she was a bad typist, well, thenmaybe he shouldn't have to pay damages.MR. RICCIARDI: Your Honor, going back to thetext of the statute, (m) defined the plaintiff's duty asshowing that the illegal criteria was a motivating factor. But the vast majority of cases fall under (a)() wherethe plaintiff must show that he or she was discriminatedagainst because of sex, gender, race, whatever. So thatis a but for standard in (a), which means that theplaintiff has to carry the ball all the way across thegoal line, does not shift the burden of proof to thedefendant.QUESTION: But the burden of proof that -- thatyou keep referring to, in effect, is the burden of prooffor what under the statutory scheme is -- is a partial th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC affirmative defense. What is remarkable about saying ifyou -- if you want to claim a partial affirmative defense,you have the burden of proof on it? You always have theburden of proof on an affirmative defense.MR. RICCIARDI: Well, what makes thisextraordinary, Your Honor, is that under (m), theplaintiff never has to prove that what this defendant didcaused this injury. The but for is in (a), but in (m),the plaintiff can say --QUESTION: (m) is addressing something else. (m) is -- is addressing what happens if, in fact, a -- adefendant wants to raise an affirmative defense, a partialaffirmative defense. That's all it addresses.MR. RICCIARDI: Your Honor, I believe --QUESTION: Well, it isn't all it -- I mean, it addresses the sufficiency of -- of liability, and then itgoes on to address the -- the affirmative defense.MR. RICCIARDI: Well, Your Honor, my response tothat is I believe that the Civil Rights Act incorporated(m) as a direct response and a partial codification ofthe Price Waterhouse decision because there was no burdenshift under Title VII until Price Waterhouse created it.QUESTION: When that was enacted, was therealready a considerable body of court of appeals opinionswhich had interpreted Price Waterhouse as establishing the th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC direct evidence rule, or did they come later?MR. RICCIARDI: Your Honor, I believe these arecited in the -- in the SG's brief, and I believe therewere five circuit courts that had, between PriceWaterhouse and the Civil Rights Act, recognized that.Your Honor, may I reserve?QUESTION: Yes, Mr. Ricciardi.We'll hear from Mr. Gornstein.ORAL ARGUMENT OF IRVING L. GORNSTEINON BEHALF OF THE UNITED STATES AS AMICUS CURIAESUPPORTING THE PETITIONERMR. GORNSTEIN: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court:Since , Title VII's disparate treatmentprohibition has required a finding that a protected characteristic such as gender was a but for cause of anadverse employment decision. Now, the ' amendmentscreate a special rule of liability for mixed-motive caseswhere proof of but for cause is not required. To qualifyfor --QUESTION: How do we know that those amendmentsapply only to mixed-motive cases? The language in thestatute Congress passed is pretty broad.MR. GORNSTEIN: It -- the --QUESTION: And in theory, it could apply across th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC the board.MR. GORNSTEIN: The text that says, even thoughother factors also motivated the practice, make clear thatthe amendment only applies to mixed-motive cases. Itdoesn't say, even if, which would be regardless ofwhether, but it says, even though, which means the factorswere present, but that it doesn't matter. And so the textmakes clear that it applies only to mixed-motive cases,but it doesn't address --QUESTION: Well, the text makes clear that theexception does, but why does (m) not apply to all cases?MR. GORNSTEIN: (m) says, even though otherfactors also motivated the -- the practice. That's what(m) says. And that -- that limits it to mixed-motivecases.QUESTION: It says whether or not they -- otherfactors motivate it.MR. GORNSTEIN: No. If it -- if it was whetheror not, it would be even if. Even though means thefactors were present. Other factors were present, but itdoesn't matter under this statute that they were.Now, the text of the law doesn't address whatkind of evidence is sufficient to make out a mixed-motivecase, and it leaves that to resolution through backgroundprinciples as Congress typically does. Congress typically th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC does not address what kind of evidence is sufficient. Andthe key and most relevant and pertinent backgroundprinciple here was that before the amendment, directevidence was required to make out a mixed-motive case.QUESTION: Do you say that because that's theway a lot of court of appeals determined, or do you thinkthat was a necessity by virtue of the split in theopinions on this Court?MR. GORNSTEIN: Two sources for that, JusticeSouter. One is the court of appeals' decisions, and therewere five between the time of Price Waterhouse and thetime of the ' amendments, and that formed an importantpart of the backdrop against which Congress --QUESTION: Were those -- were those opinionsbased on the reading of this Court as depending upon Justice O'Connor's opinion where those words were used?MR. GORNSTEIN: I -- I would not --QUESTION: Or did the courts independentlycreate a distinction between direct and substantialevidence?MR. GORNSTEIN: I think that those two -- thosecases, for the most part, were trying to reconcile thisCourt's decisions in McDonnell Douglas with PriceWaterhouse, and that's exactly the first source for wherewe would get the background rule as well. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC QUESTION: Well, then would you tell me --QUESTION: Why would you have that background?QUESTION: -- why would the court -- if that'swhat it was trying to do, why would it resort to somethingas extraordinary -- now that we no longer have formalrules of evidence, like you need two witnesses to prove Aand three witnesses to prove B, why would it resort tothat kind of distinction between direct and circumstantialrather than a heightened burden expressed as clear andconvincing?MR. GORNSTEIN: Because it was trying to be --they were trying to be faithful to this Court's decisionsin McDonnell Douglas and Price Waterhouse. And let meexplain how those two decisions fit together because in --in Price Waterhouse, there was direct evidence, and six Justices said that was sufficient to shift the burden ofproof. Now, no opinion expressly stated that somethingother than that would be sufficient to shift the burden ofproof.QUESTION: But only one stated that it wasnecessary as well as sufficient.MR. GORNSTEIN: That's correct.QUESTION: So you had five that did not say itwas necessary as well as sufficient.MR. GORNSTEIN: That's correct. And five did th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC not say that it would -- that anything less would besufficient, however, and that issue is resolved byMcDonnell Douglas and -- and that line of cases.And what McDonnell Douglas and that line ofcases say is that in a purely circumstantial evident case-- evidence case -- the plaintiff has a very light burdenat the outset, but that once the employer comes back andputs on a nondiscriminatory explanation, the plaintiff hasto carry the burden of proof all the way to showingpretext and but for causation. The plaintiff under theMcDonnell Douglas line of cases has to show but forcausation.So when you put the two decisions together,Price Waterhouse and McDonnell Douglas, the rule thatemerges is in -- to get into the Price Waterhouse box, where you get a shift in the burden of proof, you needdirect evidence.QUESTION: Are there cases in which a motivatingfactor is not but for causation when it's not a mixed-motive case?MR. GORNSTEIN: It -- it's a mixed-motive casewhere it's not a but for factor. That's correct.QUESTION: No. I'm asking the other -- theconverse of that. If there is no second motive, butmerely there's evidence of -- of a motivating factor, th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC period, isn't that enough?MR. GORNSTEIN: No. If it's -- if it's the solemotive, then it would be a violation under e-(a)(). That would be a --QUESTION: Would it also not be a violation ofthis statute?MR. GORNSTEIN: No, because e-(m) isdesigned just for cases where there's more than onemotive.QUESTION: It's designed to create a specialdefense and a special remedy, but it doesn't say anythingabout what it takes to prove the case, does it?MR. GORNSTEIN: It leaves that to backgroundprinciples. And as I was saying, that's the backgroundprinciple.The second point that's very crucial here isthat if there's not a direct evidence requirement, JusticeStevens, the result would be that you are going toeffectively render superfluous e-() which up untilnow has been the principal safeguard againstdiscrimination, and the reason is that e-(a)()requires proof of but for cause. e-(m) requiresproof --QUESTION: But I -- I still -- maybe I'm juststupid, but I don't understand the difference between a th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC but for cause and a motivating factor that is not part ofa mixed-motive case.MR. GORNSTEIN: If it's just --QUESTION: If -- if the only motivating -- ifthere's a motivating factor and there's nothing else,isn't that but for causation?MR. GORNSTEIN: It -- certainly it is --QUESTION: And so is it if you have two, isn'tit?MR. GORNSTEIN: -- e-(a)() but not -- itdoesn't apply where cases where it's not a but for cause. That's what --QUESTION: Why not? In -- in law school, in myfirst year in torts, I learned that there's an odd casewhere you have two hunters shooting at the same person. Now, in both cases, you know, they're not actuallyliterally but for conditions, but they fall within theword because. My torts teacher used to call them co­causal conditions.MR. GORNSTEIN: Well --QUESTION: So I'm amazed that you're readingbecause, contrary to all tort law --MR. GORNSTEIN: No.QUESTION: -- to mean that if you have the co­causal condition, which happens to be two motives here, th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC not two hunters, that it wouldn't fall within thebeginning.MR. GORNSTEIN: No. That -- that's a specialcase, Justice Breyer.QUESTION: Yes, it is.MR. GORNSTEIN: And -- and the ordinary rule isthat you have to show that it's but for cause, and theCourt said as much in --QUESTION: All right, but it's a special casewe're dealing with where you have two hunters -- I'm sorry-- two motives. And so in that unusual two-hunter/two-motive case, what the Congress did was write (m) to tellyou treat it okay for liability, but don't award damages. Now, where am I wrong in that analysis?MR. GORNSTEIN: The -- the key point that you're missing there is that if you interpret e-(m) in thatway, you would be rendering superfluous e-(a)()which requires but for cause by virtue of the because oflanguage. And if -- if under the -- that's because inorder to show a violation, a plaintiff would only have toshow motivating factor, not but for cause. It wouldrender -- no plaintiff would ever seek to prove a e-(a) case. They'd always seek to prove a e-(m) case.And the result would be that what up until nowhas been the principal safeguard in literally thousands of th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC cases under Title VII would be translated -- transformedinto something that is almost completely obsolete, andthere's just nothing to indicate that Congress intended toso radically change the fabric of Title VII law. And whatwe have is a much more modest adjustment.QUESTION: Would it be a radical change in ourlaw if we said that instead of direct evidence, it's clearand convincing evidence?MR. GORNSTEIN: That would be a very big changein this Court's law if -- if this Court said that becausethis Court has already said, under Title VII, thebackground understanding is more likely than not, andthat's what the plaintiff has to show. And so the way tolook at this amendment is not as a very fundamental changein the basic fabric of Title VII law, but a response to a particular decision. That's what Congress was respondingto.And if you'll recall in that case, there wasdirect evidence. An employer basically admitted that ithad taken gender into account, and then the Court said,well, the employer can get out from all liability byshowing absence of but -- but for cause. And Congressresponded to that particular decision in doing that.But that didn't mean that Congress thereafterwent on to undertake a complete reexamination of the law. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC It left it where it was, and where it was is in purelycircumstantial evidence cases, under McDonnell Douglas,once the employer introduces a nondiscriminatoryexplanation, the plaintiff has to carry the burden ofproof of showing pretext and but for cause.If the Court has nothing further.QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. Gornstein.Mr. Peccole, we'll hear from you.ORAL ARGUMENT OF ROBERT N. PECCOLEON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTMR. PECCOLE: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court:This case, at the very middle of it, when we'retrying to settle instructions, the parties involved agreedto instructions through . Instruction number to the jury was, in fact, the (a) instruction. It read -- andthis jury instruction is found at the joint appendix and . It read, the plaintiff has the burden of provingeach of the following by a preponderance of the evidence. One, Costa suffered adverse work conditions, and two,Costa's gender was a motivating factor in any such workconditions imposed upon her. Gender refers to the qualityof being male or female.If you find that each of these things has beenproved against a defendant, your verdict should be for the th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC plaintiff and against the defendant. On the other hand,if any of these things has not been proved against adefendant, your verdict should be for the defendant.What I'm trying to point out is the parties atthat point and at that juncture had agreed that thisdefinitely was a (a) case and it would go to the juryas such.The only objection that Caesars had toinstructions was instruction number , and instructionnumber was the same action defense that aids Caesars inthe fact that it actually cuts down the type of damagesthat can be awarded. In fact, monetary damages cannot beawarded. That instruction aided Caesars and in no eventis it easy for them to now come before this Court and saythey were harmed by the fact that that instruction was given.I would point out that this is similar to theReeves case, and the reason it is similar is in Reeves,the parties in that case had basically agreed that theMcDonnell Douglas framework would be used, and this Courtsaid since that seems to be the position of the parties,we'll accept that. Well, I would submit that the samething occurred in this case. The parties agreed that thisis a (a) case, and that's -- that's the way it waspresented to the jury. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC Reading (m), which is Title VII e-(m) --and that's found at the respondent's brief, page -- thesection specifically states, except as otherwise providedin this title, an unlawful employment practice isestablished when a complaining party demonstrates a race,color, religion, sex, or national origin was a motivatingfactor for any employment practice, even though otherfactors also motivated the practice. That's stating anyemployment practice that -- that takes into considerationany of the things listed, and in this case, it was gender. So it was a gender-motivated case.I would point out that when we look at thisstatute, it talks in terms of a plaintiff having todemonstrate, and the plaintiff under that terminologymerely had to show and bear the burden of showing a case which actually would indicate that gender was a motivatingfactor.In the case that was presented to the jury,there was absolutely no question that Ms. Costa showed acase every bit as strong as the case and the facts thatwere found in Price Waterhouse. Reference does not haveto be made to Price Waterhouse. The statute itself doesnot talk in terms of any heightened burden placed on theplaintiff, nor does it talk in terms of substantialevidence. It goes right to what it says on its face that th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC a plaintiff merely has to demonstrate.QUESTION: And what do you -- what do yourespond to the argument made by the Government if -- thatif that is what it means and if it does not embody theunderstood requirement of direct evidence, it effectivelysupplants (a)(). It -- nobody would -- would try toprove a case under (a)(), which is what has been thetraditional approach.MR. PECCOLE: In our brief, Your Honor, we -- weactually took the position that the language in (m)does, in fact, supplant the language in (a).QUESTION: So you -- you accept that argument.MR. PECCOLE: (a). Excuse me. But --QUESTION: Well, that's a massive change in --in --MR. PECCOLE: I -- I would like to maybe --QUESTION: I mean, it just shifts the burden tothe employer to prove nondiscrimination effectively. That's a -- that's a very big change.MR. PECCOLE: I would like to backtrack just alittle bit on that. I think there's an explanationnecessary. It has to be more detailed.In the Price Waterhouse case, the pluralityactually had said, first of all, the motivating factor wasthe -- the motive involved. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC The plurality also said that the -- the wordsbecause of, in (a), really didn't mean because of. Itsaid something along the lines that it does not meansolely because of. That's how the plurality basically gotto motivating factor. The language motivating factor ofthe plurality ended up in (m), and I think you couldalso say that it -- the definition given by the plurality,to because of in (a), actually came over into (m)too.QUESTION: But they are still contradictory. Imean, (a)() would require in a mixed-motive case -- okay-- if -- if you apply (a)() to a mixed-motive case, itwould require the plaintiff to show that the -- theimproper motive was an effective cause and that theemployer would not have dismissed this person anyway. Whereas, if the new (m) governs, it's just the opposite. Once you show an improper motive, it is up to the employerto show that if he wishes to get off, he would have takenthe same action anyway. So I -- the -- the two are justnot -- not compatible.MR. PECCOLE: I think the Ninth Circuit'sapproach is the best. The Ninth Circuit actually saidthat if you show a single-motive type case which fallsunder (a), that it goes to the jury as a because of. There is just absolutely no question that is the better th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC approach.The other approach is, if there is a mixedmotive -- and these are decisions that have to be made bythe judge before the instructions go to the jury. Ifthere are mixed motives, then it goes to the jury as a(m).In this case, the mixed motives were there. Itdid go to the jury as a (m), and it also included thedefense that Caesars had available under (g)()(b).QUESTION: And as I understand --QUESTION: Am I right --QUESTION: -- as I understand (m), it isn't aquestion of shifting the burden to the defendant. Theplaintiff wins at that point. If the plaintiffdemonstrates sex is a motivating factor, at that point plaintiff wins. The affirmative defense doesn't take awaythe plaintiff's victory. It just limits the remedy. Sothe defendant can't get off the hook. As (m) isstructured, it's not that you're loading on the defendantan extraordinary burden of showing nonliability. If theplaintiff makes the demonstration that (m) calls for,plaintiff is the winner, and the only thing that -- theonly function of the defense is to limit the remedy.That's how I understand --MR. PECCOLE: I -- I agree with you th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC wholeheartedly on that. In fact -- and that's whatoccurred in this case. If you look at the verdict form,which is at the joint appendix on page , you'll see thatwhat happened is the jury was instructed exactly the wayyou just commented. If the plaintiff had established by apreponderance of an evidence that gender was a motivatingfactor, then the plaintiff proved its case and should winright then and there.And if you see, you will find in number of theinterrogatories, it asks the question, do you find thatthe defendant's wrongful treatment of plaintiff wasmotivated both by gender and lawful reasons? And the jurymarked yes. But had they marked no, if you look down tothe next sentence, it says, if your answer was yes, answerthe next question. If your answer was no, proceed to question number , which was the damage section.QUESTION: Well, Mr. Peccole, what is yourunderstanding of the relationship between (a)() ande-(m)?--about.statutes?MR. PECCOLE: e-(m), Your Honor? Let me justQUESTION: The -- the one we've been talkingMR. PECCOLE: The relationship between the two th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC QUESTION: Between the two sections, yes.MR. PECCOLE: Okay. First of all, therelationship, if we're talking about (m), what -- whathappens there is the plaintiff --QUESTION: Why don't you refer to the statutorynumbers that -- that are in the -- the appendix.MR. PECCOLE: Yes. That's -- that will be alittle bit easier.Okay. (m) is U.S.C. e-(m).QUESTION: Right.MR. PECCOLE: What -- what that new statute didis it placed on the burden of the plaintiff to show -- andI -- and this -- this burden never changes. It neverchanged with McDonnell Douglas. It does not change here. The -- the burden is always on the plaintiff to prove by a preponderance of the evidence that gender was a motivatingfactor. So what happens is once the plaintiffs haveproved that, he's proved his case.The problem now shifts, and it's -- it's anaffirmative defense. It's not a shifting of burdens. Anaffirmative defense comes into play under U.S.C. e-(g)()(B) which -- which allows the employer to come inand show that if they took the same action, even thoughthere was a gender-motivating factor, then it reducestheir damages or the possibility -- th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC QUESTION: Well, are there any -- are there anycases that are covered by e-(m) that are not covered by(a)()?MR. PECCOLE: My answer in that case would haveto be that conceivably -- the Ninth Circuit did say this,that there are those cases. The cases are when you have a-- a single-motive case. They got back into thedistinction between single and mixed-motive. If you havea true single-motive case, then it would come under the --the section (a) which is -(a)().QUESTION: Does it matter?QUESTION: In your view, what -- what didCongress accomplish by (m), also known as e-(m)?MR. PECCOLE: I think what they accomplishedwas, first of all, they clarified Price Waterhouse from the standpoint that there was no heightened burden, nodirect evidence burden, no substantial factor burden. Itdid that for sure.The next thing that it did is it -- it made itso a plaintiff would bear the burden of having toestablish that gender played a motivating factor. Andthat is in any employment decision, not just, you know,the very limited type or anything like that. It says, anyemployment decision. And that becomes an unlawfulemployment action. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC QUESTION: Is -- is this correct, that McDonnellDouglas survives on your reading in a case in which thedefendant does not go forward with anything? Theplaintiff puts in enough to make a prima facie case. Defendant sits mute. McDonnell Douglas controls theresult there. If the defendant does go forward withsomething at that point -- and -- and here I'm not sure ofthis, but I think -- by definition, it then becomes amixed-motive case, doesn't it? Under (m)?MR. PECCOLE: I believe it does.QUESTION: Okay.MR. PECCOLE: I -- I think --QUESTION: So McDonnell survives in the case ofthe mute defendant. In the non-mute defendant, (m)governs everything.MR. PECCOLE: Let me see if I can answer. McDonnell Douglas, as has been suggested -- it's used atthe very preliminary stage of a -- of a case. McDonnellDouglas at some point in that decision then bursts. Itgoes away. And so what you're left with is the -- or(a) and the (m).Now, I'm -- here I'm -- again I'm relying onwhat the Ninth Circuit said. They are still givingMcDonnell Douglas cases some deference, but what they aresaying in fact is yes, once you're past that stage, th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC basically the (m) cases will come into play. Thatwill be the instructions to the jury.QUESTION: Does it -- does it -- just forclarifying in my mind, does it matter or doesn't it matterwhether you say (m) governs a separate set of cases? WhenI came in, I thought the answer to that was no, itdoesn't, that (e) governs every case because the cause cangovern the two-motive cases too, and that in (m) Congresswas simply clarifying that there could be such cases, andthen they go on to say what happens.But the Government made a very good point andsaid no, I shouldn't look at it that way and I should lookat it as if (e) governs the single-motive case and then(m) comes in to govern the dual-motive case. And that wasa good argument too.And so what I'm asking you, who understands thisa little better than I do, does it matter?MR. PECCOLE: No.QUESTION: No, it doesn't matter. That's it.QUESTION: Well, how many -- what percentage ofall these cases, do you think, are single-motive cases?MR. PECCOLE: To guess, I would -- I would sayprobably a vast majority of the cases are. They're -- ornot single. Excuse me. Those are mixed-motive cases.QUESTION: Well, you don't suggest the defendant th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC always admits liability, do you?MR. PECCOLE: No.QUESTION: If there's only issue about onemotive, it's always that the defendant has some kind ofdefense in every case.QUESTION: If he stands mute, he -- he loses. Imean, under McDonnell Douglas, if the plaintiff comes inwith -- with a claim that this was the motive and the --and the defendant doesn't come up with anything, he loses,doesn't he?MR. PECCOLE: Yes.QUESTION: So any case that goes forward is amixed-motive -- is a mixed-motive case.MR. PECCOLE: Yes.QUESTION: Yes.MR. PECCOLE: Yes. And -- and the only thing --the only time that I could see otherwise would be a -- aspecific instance where, for example, you have workingwomen in a -- in a department. The employer comes in andsays we have to make a layoff because we're -- we're indire straits. We can't afford it. They lay off thatwhole division, and then weeks later they hire a wholemale division. I think that you have the single motivethere and -- and you -- those are the only kind of cases Ican think of. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC QUESTION: Yes, they settle, don't they?MR. PECCOLE: Yes.(Laughter.)MR. PECCOLE: I -- I would entertain any otherfurther questions.I think that one -- one other point I would liketo make is that (m) and the way the Ninth Circuit hasapproached it, has made it simple and easy for the judgesto handle, for the trial attorneys to handle, and for thejury to handle through instructions. It's a -- it's amuch easier way of handling these type cases.It -- it's like any other civil case basically. Plaintiff has to come in and show by a preponderance ofthe evidence that it's entitled to what it's -- it'ssaying it's entitled to, that certain things occurred. Then the defense can either sit back and say, well, wait asecond, you didn't prove your case, or the defense cansay, well, maybe there's a motivating factor here. Evenafter I presented valid reasons for the termination, forexample, then what they'll do is they'll say, well, maybeI want this instruction that limits my damages. But it --it's a simple structure, and we have got to get to that. I mean, it is --QUESTION: But if you -- if you --MR. PECCOLE: -- so chaotic out there in the th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC circuits right now, it's just unbelievable.QUESTION: If you were right, Mr. Peccole, about(m) taking over the field so that every case becomes amixed-motive case, why would Congress have added not evenif, but even though other factors also motivated thepractice?MR. PECCOLE: I don't think it has anythingactually to do with the mixed-motive. I think what it is-- they're saying is even if that -- that kind of evidenceis present. In any event, you succeed.QUESTION: Well, if they said whether or not,then --MR. PECCOLE: Yes.QUESTION: -- I would see your point clearly. But they didn't say whether or not. They said even though, which seems to assume that two -- at least twomotivating factors have been shown: one, sex; two,another motive -- another even though another motivatingfactor existed.MR. PECCOLE: I think if you read the anyemployment practice means any. And I think what it doesis it takes away from that last sentence or phrase. Whatit's done is it's basically said any employment practicewhere you can show that gender, for example, is amotivating factor, you've proven your case. It doesn't th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC make any difference whether there's other factors present,whether they're legitimate or illegitimate.QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. Peccole.Mr. Ricciardi, you have minutes left.REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF MARK J. RICCIARDION BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERMR. RICCIARDI: I'd like to call the Court'sattention to the joint appendix, page , the middle ofthe page. It's the jury instructions colloquy. The courtsays, all right, may I hear from the defense? And I say,yes, Your Honor. We have no objections to the court'sinstructions through . I believe this is not a mixed-motive case, and under Price Waterhouse, direct evidenceis required.I should have said through . There's no question about that. I don't think that's fatal to thisappeal for several reasons.There's no question that the trial judge was onfull notice of my position that it was not a -- it was nota Price Waterhouse case.QUESTION: You also should have said, I believethis is a mixed-motive case, not I believe this is not,shouldn't you? You had a bad morning I think.(Laughter.)QUESTION: Did you think it was a mixed-motive th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC case or not?MR. RICCIARDI: No. No, Your Honor, it was not. It was a McDonnell Douglas case. We should have gotten --if you look back to the actual jury instruction that wasgiven, number on page --QUESTION: I see. Okay.MR. RICCIARDI: It was not a Price Waterhousecase. That's why I'm here today. I've been living withthis for many years.But jury instruction number was the (a)()because of language, and the trial judge was on noticefrom our colloquy on my motion for judgment as a matter oflaw, which starts on page , that I was objecting thatthe prima facie case hadn't been shown. There was no juryissue raised to show pretext.Furthermore, the Ninth Circuit, both the paneland the full en banc court, passed on the propriety of themixed-motive instruction and never once had any problemwith the way I had preserved the objection.And then finally, in this Court, in the -- inthe petition for certiorari, we formulated the question,and in the opposition, which I believe is an optionalfiling, the opposition to the petition for certiorariraises nothing about instruction number or the (m)formulation. And it was only for the very first time in th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC any of these many appeals was it raised in the meritsbrief. So I believe --CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: Thank you, Mr.Ricciardi.The case is submitted.(Whereupon, at : a.m., the case in theabove-entitled matter was submitted.) th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC 