 IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XANDREW J. KONTRICK, Petitioner ::v. : No. -ROBERT A. RYAN :- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XWashington, D.C.Monday, November , The above-entitled matter came on for oralargument before the Supreme Court of the United States at: a.m.APPEARANCES:E. KING POOR, ESQ., Chicago, Illinois; on behalf ofthe Petitioner.JAMES R. FIGLIULO, ESQ., Chicago, Illinois; on behalfof the Respondent.KENT L. JONES, ESQ., Assistant to the Solicitor General,Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; as amicuscuriae, supporting the Respondent. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. C O N T E N T SORAL ARGUMENT OF E. KING POOR, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioner JAMES R. FIGLIULO, ESQ.On behalf of the Respondent KENT L. JONESAs amicus curiae, supporting the Respondent REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OFE. KING POOR, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioner PAGE th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. P R O C E E D I N G S(: a.m.)CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: We'll hear argumentnow in No. -, Andrew J. Kontrick v. Robert A. Ryan.Mr. Poor.ORAL ARGUMENT OF E. KING POORON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERMR. POOR: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it pleasethe Court:This case presents a single question: Can thedeadline for objecting to a bankruptcy discharge bealtered by equitable exceptions? To answer that question,we start with the language of the rules. Bankruptcy Rule states that an objection to discharge must be filedno later than days after the first date set for the meeting of creditors. This rule also allows for anextension of the time, but only by motion and only if thatmotion is filed, quote, before the time expires.QUESTION: Mr. Poor, may I suggest that thequestion you have raised is not the one that I understoodthis case to involve. It's not whether the provisionallows for equitable exceptions, it's whether youforfeited that claim, the claim that it does not - whetheryou forfeited it by letting the thing go past your answer. You didn't raise it in your answer. You let the case go th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. off on summary judgment on the merits and remained silentuntil after there was an adverse judgment against you. Soat least in my thinking, the forfeiture question, whetheryou forfeited, the argument that you would now like us totreat as the question presented, that is the thresholdquestion.MR. POOR: And I - and I would agree with YourHonor that the question of waiver, or sometimes referredto as forfeiture, is - is part of - that is the questionthat's before your Court, whether that - the fact that wehad not raised it until some later date is something thatcan be waived or forfeited.QUESTION: Well, Mr. Poor -QUESTION: I - I would agree with JusticeGinsburg that that's the way that the question reads on the petition for writ of certiorari. It's helpful thatyou did set forth, that the parties did set forth in thejoint appendix the chronology here. I take it that thefirst time your client raised the late filing issue wasJune , , or am I wrong about that?MR. POOR: No, Your Honor. We raised it in Marchof in a motion to reconsider, but we also havemaintained -QUESTION: Oh, that was in the motion toreconsider? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. MR. POOR: Correct, but I would hasten to addthat we have steadfastly maintained that we raised it inopposition to the motion for summary judgment in that wespecifically said that the family account claim was not inthe original complaint, and that to be timely, a claim hadto be in that - that original complaint. QUESTION: But in that very pleading you askedthe court to strike a number of things in the complaint,and yet you did not ask to strike the family accountclaim.MR. POOR: Well, Your Honor, we have maintainedthat we did and in the context of this -QUESTION: But you didn't - did you expressly saythat you wanted those certain allegations struck?MR. POOR: Well, we did as best we could at the time because this was part of a -QUESTION: Did you - did you say, court, strikethese allegations?MR. POOR: Yes.QUESTION: Yes, the answer is yes?MR. POOR: Yes, we believe we - we did, YourHonor.QUESTION: And you did not say, strike withrespect to this allegation?MR. POOR: Not specifically as to that, and th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. that's - and that's what the - what the bankruptcy courtfound. However, at the time this was part of a mass ofother allegations, and we felt that we had raised itsufficiently by -QUESTION: What was your reason fordistinguishing the two, for saying strike others, but asto this one all that you did was mention that it wasn't inthe original complaint?MR. POOR: Well, we felt that that was - at the -in the opposition we raised the untimeliness issue. There were just a number of others that were not even inthe - any complaint.QUESTION: Well, if we're going to get into allof that, then they would say there's a relation back andnone of those issues are really before. We took the issue on the pure question of whether or not, assuming that youwere late in objecting that that - that that's a bar.MR. POOR: That's correct, Your Honor, and I -QUESTION: Mr. Poor, there are cases with whichI'm sure you're familiar where a statute of limitationshas been held to be deemed waived, even though there'snothing in the statute itself talking about waiver.MR. POOR: That's correct, Your Honor.QUESTION: And this is much like that, is it not? There's a provision in the rules for a deadline for making th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. a claim, but perhaps as in a statute of limitations case,it's not an extension of time to find a waiver. It's -it's a different concept, and maybe should be viewed muchlike a waiver of a statute of limitations.MR. POOR: Well, in this case, Your Honor, thisdeadline is very much unlike a classic statute oflimitations where you have a, say, a -year statute. Thisis different because here the language of the days ismodified or altered by Bankruptcy Rule - (b). Therulemakers didn't stop with the -day deadline. Theystated that this rule will be incorporated into a specialsubgroup of other rules that may only be extended, quote,to the extent and under the conditions stated.QUESTION: But what's your answer to the argumentthat a waiver is not an extension, it's a waiver? That'sa different kettle of fish.MR. POOR: Well, it - any - any attempt to excusea late filing, whether it is waiver, equitable estoppel,and it could be waiver in the sense of it's an impliedwaiver where a debtor, by inaction, does not raise it, orit could be a situation where there's a stipulation by thedebtor to - with the creditor and says, after the deadlinethe creditor goes to the debtor and says, I want you tostipulate to a late time period. In the language here, ifyou take the plain language of and (b), that th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. plain language simply does not allow for any type ofequitable exceptions, whether they're deemed to be waiveror forfeiture or if -QUESTION: But you could make the same argumentfor an ordinary statute of limitations that doesn't talkabout waiver or equitable alteration.MR. POOR: You - and that's correct, Your Honor,for an ordinary statute of limitations. This one isdifferent for this reason, that the presumption here isthat when the drafters adopted , what they did wasthey patterned it after Federal Rule of Civil Procedure(b), almost - almost virtually identically, and thelanguage of (b), on which (b) is patterned, has had along history of being - had an established meaning assetting jurisdictional deadlines and - for its own subgroup of rules, and those rules, as this Court held inthe Robinson case, we must presume that rules that arebased on that (b) rule are presumed to be - to have thesame meaning, that is, in the words of the Robinson case,as mandatory and jurisdictional.QUESTION: Well, do you think that Rule (a)limits the Court's subject matter jurisdiction?MR. POOR: Not in the least, Your Honor, and Ithink that's a very important distinction in this case,because I think that's where the court below got off the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. trail in focusing on the concept of subject matterjurisdiction. This case does not deal with subject matterjurisdiction. That's the idea that - whether the courthas the competency. We're not saying that the, forinstance, the Circuit Court of Cook County was the propercourt to hear this objection.In this case we're talking about an entirelydifferent concept, and that is jurisdiction used in thesense that a court may not extend a deadline beyond theplain meaning of the rule with any type of equitableexception, whether it's called -QUESTION: Why do you pin the word jurisdictionon it at all when rules, whether bankruptcy rules orcreditor rules, cannot alter or affect the Court'sjurisdiction? That's what both rules' enabling acts say, so whatever it is, it - if it is jurisdiction, then itviolates - the rule violates the statute. The rule isn'tpassed by Congress.MR. POOR: I - and I - I, Your Honor, and as Irecall in Your Honor's concurrence in the Carlisle case,you pointed out that to use the term subject matterjurisdiction for something like this, for a timeprescription, is - is anomalous, where in - in this caseif we're not - we're not dealing with subject matterjurisdiction, we're talking about jurisdiction as a th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. shorthand for a time -QUESTION: You're talking about a rigid timelimit, a time limit that cannot be extended for goodcause.MR. POOR: Exactly, and I - I know there are anumber of courts that decline to even use the termjurisdiction, because they think that that's probably notthe best term to use. It's used by many courts.QUESTION: Could you - could you have, accordingto your analysis of what this animal is, here you madeyour motion to reconsider after the summary judgmentmotion was granted, but before judgment was entered -MR. POOR: Correct.QUESTION: - final judgment was entered. Suppose final judgment had been entered. Could you then come into the court and say, sorry, court, I forgot totell you that you couldn't enter any judgment here becausean unalterable time bar had passed?MR. POOR: I think, so long as it's within thesame proceeding, Your Honor, you could, and that's - thatwas the holding in the Kirsch case, which the Seventh -QUESTION: How about initially on appeal? Suppose you - you suffered the adverse judgment in thebankruptcy court and then you want to raise that, afterall, the complaint was untimely, on appeal for the first th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. time?MR. POOR: I think that that would probably be arare instance, but I think that in - if it isjurisdictional or unalterable, then so long as it's withinthe same proceeding that's just - that is part of what ajurisdictional rule is.QUESTION: Do you have any authority with respectto this kind of rule, a rigid time limit, that it's okayto untimely bring that to the court's attention? I mean,all the precedent that your brief cites are cases wherethe party who opposes the time extension timely brings upthat the complaint was untimely.MR. POOR: We have cited a number of those, YourHonor, in our - both our opening brief and our replybrief, and I would invite the Court's attention to -QUESTION: Where the defendant was untimely -that -MR. POOR: Yes, Your Honor.QUESTION: - where as here?MR. POOR: Yes, and - and even more extreme, amore extreme example, if I would invite the Court'sattention to the Dollar case, where after the time limithad passed, the creditor went to the debtor and says -said I want you to extend the time limit, and for whateverreason, the debtor said, okay, I'll agree to that, and th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. then they brought that to the bankruptcy court forapproval and the bankruptcy court said, no, this is ajurisdictional time limit, you can't have a side deal witha creditor -QUESTION: That was a case where the court madean - an initial ruling without having expended any time inadjudicating the case. Here, you present the situationwhere the court grants a motion for summary judgment andthen the debtor says, sorry, court, you never should haveadjudicated this. We didn't tell you, but now you have toerase all - everything that you did. MR. POOR: Well -QUESTION: I did - was not aware of such a case.MR. POOR: Well, there - there are a number ofthem where they're not raised in the - there's a whole spectrum. They're not raised in the answer -QUESTION: Raised after the case is adjudicatedon the merits?MR. POOR: Yes. The Kirsch case is one casewhere it - actually after trial, in Kirsch, the courtfound that since the rule - and I - it was not alterableunder the plain meaning of the twin here, this , ,that that could not be altered, even after a trial, and asI recall, the Poskanzer case is yet another one of thosewhere - th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. QUESTION: Who made those decision where the -MR. POOR: The - the Kirsch case is from thebankruptcy court in the Northern District of Illinois, and- and the Poskanzer case is from New Jersey and we cite anumber of them in page and in our footnote on that -QUESTION: The - the law - like - like the timelimit here, the law is unalterable, and if you fail tomake a legal argument at the trial level, you're notnormally permitted to raise that argument on appeal whereyou haven't raised the objection below. MR. POOR: That -QUESTION: The court - the court doesn't say,well, the law is unalterable so you're entitled to - toraise this point at any stage in the proceeding. That's -that's just not the way we do things, and that's why we do have this terminology jurisdictional. There issomething special about that, but the mere fact thatsomething is unalterable certainly doesn't allow you toraise it whenever you like.MR. POOR: Well, Your Honor, the - to go back tothe - the concept of - of waiver or - or forfeiture, ifthe rule is - is truly jurisdictional, using the shorthandthat it cannot be altered, then -QUESTION: No, no, no. That was the point of -of my question. It is not a synonym for - for the term th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. jurisdictional that it can't be altered. There are a lotof things that - that can't be altered which you're notallowed to raise late.MR. POOR: But if - if the rule itself, forinstance, does not allow a - a debtor and a creditor toextend this time line themselves, then it would be, Isubmit, anomalous to allow the debtor to do, by inaction,what the Court could never do on its own or - or permit arule that says that -QUESTION: Well, that - that's like saying youcannot let the defendant change the law by merely failingto raise a legal objection that was fully available. He'snot changing the law, he's just forfeited the - that - thebenefit of that provision of law.MR. POOR: Well, if it can be forfeited, Your Honor, then I would submit that it can also be waived. Itcould be - and -QUESTION: What's - what's the citation of that? I mean, you refer to Rule , and Rule governs a wholelot of famous time limits, new trials, (b) motions, etcetera. So, therefore, there must be a lot of cases wherethe following thing happened: Somebody made a motion underRule , or whatever it is, out of time, all right, a daylate -MR. POOR: A day - th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. QUESTION: A day late.MR. POOR: Right.QUESTION: And then nobody said a word about it. Then one year later, for the first time on appeal, theother side says, oh, I agree we never said a word aboutthis before so we're raising it now for the first time,and the court said, fine, you can raise it for the firsttime. Now, what are the cases that hold that? I mean,I'm not saying there aren't any, I haven't faced thisbefore, but I would have thought it comes up million - youknow, quite a lot of times where people forget to - orthey don't care or whatever it is, and they raisesomething very late. What are those cases?MR. POOR: Well, I - I would invite the Court'sattention to the cases that we cite on pages and , such as the - the Rinde case, debtor failed to plead -QUESTION: No, I'm not talking about bankruptcy. I'm talking about Rule , ordinary civil cases.MR. POOR: Well, I can - I can point the Court toa case that is in that (b) family, in the Criminal Rule(b).QUESTION: I'm talking about civil rules ofprocedure, ordinary civil cases. Probably there are, Iwould guess conservatively , cases a year that mayfall into this category. In a certain percentage of th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. those, the deadlines will be missed -MR. POOR: And -QUESTION: - and in a certain percentage of thatpercentage, the other side will have said nothing -MR. POOR: And -QUESTION: - waking up on appeal.MR. POOR: And in -QUESTION: And then there must be a lot of cases,if you're right, that would say, that's okay. I'm justrepeating myself because I think there are no cases and Ithink, to me, that shows you're wrong, but now I'm open tohearing that there are a lot or even one.MR. POOR: Well, I would - I would invite theCourt to the Kirsch case that we cite in our brief.QUESTION: Is Kirsch a bankruptcy case? I'm nottalking about a bankruptcy case.QUESTION: District court - that's a districtcourt case.MR. POOR: In - in Kirsch, the court relied uponthat (b) analysis in a case called Hulson from theSeventh Circuit, where just such a thing happened whereafter the - after trial the - the party did not - did notfile his Rule motion on time and actually the otherside - they stipulated to an untimely rule - theystipulated to it, and then on appeal in that case they - th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. the Seventh Circuit said, we don't care if you stipulatedto it, it's untimely and you cannot -QUESTION: All right, so that would definitelysupport you, and what's the name of that case?MR. POOR: That's Hulson, H-u-l-s-o-n.QUESTION: All right.MR. POOR: And that's - and that was the basis -that was the basis of this whole analysis in the Kirschcase.QUESTION: Under your - your view of the law,could the respondent here, the creditor have argued thatthis amendment relates back to the complaint?MR. POOR: Relation back has never been in our -QUESTION: Could he - could he have made that argument under your view of the law, post-judgment, afteryou - March , it was decided in - - , March, you object. At that point, could the creditor say,oh, well, this relates back, it's okay?MR. POOR: He - he could have, Your Honor.QUESTION: All right. Well, then what you'redoing is you're putting this issue potentially in theappellate courts. We don't do that sort of thing. It's -it's for the trial judge to say it relates back or not.MR. POOR: Well - th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. QUESTION: And that's - that's - you put all ofthe parties in a very difficult position by your rule.QUESTION: Didn't the court of appeals said - sayyou didn't suggest that it related back, therefore,they're assuming it didn't?MR. POOR: That's correct, that we - we - we'venever argued the - there's never - the relation back issuewas never before the Seventh Circuit.QUESTION: I'm not saying it is before, but I'msaying under your view, under your framework, it would bevery difficult to handle that at such a late point, andit's a legitimate argument that they could have made.MR. POOR: If they - they raised it on appeal, asit might be a - an issue. I think it's probably morelikely in the trial court, but yes, I would agree with Your Honor on that.QUESTION: Mr. Poor, I'm still looking for thatcase that you cited, because at least the two cases thatyou relied on principally, Taylor and Carlisle, those wereboth cases where the untimeliness point was timely raised.MR. POOR: That is true, Your Honor, both inTaylor and Carlisle it was raised, but I would suggestthat in Taylor, if the Court did not allow a lateextension based upon a bad faith claim of exemption -QUESTION: Well, the rule says good faith isn't th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. an excuse, so -MR. POOR: And -QUESTION: But - but you are arguing that anuntimely raising of the lack of timeliness is okay, andneither Carlisle nor Taylor stand for that proposition.MR. POOR: Well, they do in a broader sense, YourHonors, that they do not - I would submit that they do notallow any kind of equitable -QUESTION: They were both cases where theobjection to the untimeliness was timely made, right?MR. POOR: That's correct.QUESTION: So then they could not have consideredthe case such as this one where the objection is untimely made?MR. POOR: And that - what that gets - what that gets back to our point in our brief that in the Santoscase that the Seventh Circuit relied upon most heavilyhere, they did what I would call a pick and choose ofdifferent type of equitable exceptions. In -QUESTION: I didn't think that forfeiture was anequitable exception.MR. POOR: Well, in -QUESTION: There is a difference between waiver,which is a conscious act, and forfeiture, which is rulethat says, if you don't raise the point, which is the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. ordinary consequence of not raising a defense, if youdon't raise it and the time to amend passes and you have ajudgment on the merits, you can't go back to square oneand said, oh, sorry, I should have put it in my answer,but -MR. POOR: Well, our - our biggest point here,Your Honor, is that either these rules set time limitsthat cannot be altered by any type of equitable doctrine,be it forfeiture, waiver, or equitable estoppel, I mean,either all of those are in or -QUESTION: I didn't think that forfeiture was anequitable doctrine.MR. POOR: Well, I - I guess in this case we'vealways talked about waiver as - as what we're talkingabout here in terms of - it was an implied waiver in terms of - it was inaction - inaction by the debtor -QUESTION: Well, you're - you're talking aboutthe same thing as implied exceptions to the statute oflimitations that, you know, the statute may have run butthere are certain exceptions where the thing will still beconsidered.MR. POOR: That's - that's correct, Your Honor. If - a tolling type, and I think that's what we're gettingat here is are there tolling-type exceptions to thislanguage and I come back - we come back to the point that th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. if this rule was designed by the rulemakers to track thelanguage of (b) and not allow any type of exception,whether it's equitable tolling or - or whatever, theneither - either all those exceptions come in or they - orthey don't, because -QUESTION: But - but you cite only - in responseto Justice Breyer, you cite only one (b) case that you'reaware of that applied the principle you're arguing forhere, namely that a late-raised objection will - will beheard, right?QUESTION: It isn't an exception. The point is,I think some of us have been pointing out to you, is ourbelief, which you could try to disabuse us of, that thishas nothing to do with exceptions. We'll assume there areno exceptions no matter what, but there can be a rule of law that you win and there are no exceptions, but still,because you didn't raise the point, you lose it. That hasnothing to do with exceptions. It has to do with thenormal rule, in a court you have to raise a point. Nowthat's what I'm interested in.MR. POOR: And -QUESTION: And that's what I wonder - I'm askingbecause Rule , I think, would be analogous to that and soif you - there are some cases -MR. POOR: And I would - the Hulson case is an th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. excellent example.QUESTION: Which case? Because I'm looking forit in your brief.MR. POOR: No, it's in the - the Kirsch - theKirsch -QUESTION: Cited by another case, right?MR. POOR: That's correct.QUESTION: It's cited in Kirsch?MR. POOR: Yeah, but - and the - the other pointI would make, though, is that the - the overall concepthere is this case is really no different than the Carlislecase in that if the claimant Carlisle, one day late, orthe - the motion one day late could not be extendedbecause of attorney error -QUESTION: But Mr. Poor, it can't be like Carlisle because the Government timely made thatobjection.MR. POOR: But the - the question, Your Honor, is- I would come back to this: Could the Government waivethe - the objection deadline in (b)? And I think theanswer, and I think this is where this all comes together,all of this comes together in this point, is that theGovernment could not waive that (b) deadline, and that(b) deadline is the same as (b) and it's the -QUESTION: So you think that case stands for the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. proposition that the Government had said nothing and thecourt had said, I considered this, I grant the motion toacquit, that the Government could then come in and say, ohsorry, we forgot to tell you that this was one day lateand so you couldn't consider it.MR. POOR: If there are - I would submit, YourHonor, that if these - if these deadlines are such thatthey may not be -QUESTION: But the - the opinion of this Courtcertainly doesn't give any basis for that - for such ajudgment.MR. POOR: Well, it dealt with the idea it wastheir inherent power to do that, but if - if the Courtallows a rule that says the Government can waive this orthe Government can - if the Government can stipulate to it, which is, in effect, a waiver-type argument, then Ithink that that pretty much unravels Carlisle. If theGovernment is able to stipulate to a late - a late timeperiod by either action or inaction, then I think thatunravels Carlisle and all these (b) family of cases.QUESTION: Do you wish to reserve the balance ofyour time, Mr. Poor?MR. POOR: I do, Mr. Chief Justice.QUESTION: Very well. Mr. Figliulo we'll hear from. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTMR. FIGLIULO: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court:The best way for me to understand this case isjust to walk through the case. This is a - an adversaryproceeding. Rule deals with the time for filing acomplaint objecting to discharge, and that specifically isprovided as an adversary proceeding. Once we move intothe realm or the arena of an adversary proceeding, therules are pretty clear. If - if the complaint is late,the plaintiff runs the risk of losing his case if thedefense is timely raised, but there's obligations thatshift to the defendant once we're in the adversaryproceeding. The defendant has to answer -QUESTION: Mr. Figliulo, do you know of any case in which an objection could be waived and yet prior to thetime of waiver, the parties could not, by stipulation,eliminate the objection?MR. FIGLIULO: There's a - a bankruptcy case thatholds that, but I don't think - I don't think that'sright. I think the -QUESTION: Well -MR. FIGLIULO: I think you can't agree -QUESTION: - that - that holds what? You - youthink - you think the parties can waive the limitation of th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. - of ?MR. FIGLIULO: I believe they can, yes.QUESTION: The parties, if they get together, canwaive it?that.MR. FIGLIULO: Yes, I - I believe they can.QUESTION: All right.MR. FIGLIULO: And I think - I think -QUESTION: I have trouble - I have trouble withMR. FIGLIULO: Here - here's - here's -QUESTION: I can't imagine that - that you'reunable to, by stipulation, agree to eliminate it, but youcan - one of the parties can nonetheless waive it. That ­that'd be a very unusual -MR. FIGLIULO: I think the statute of limitations is a personal defense and -QUESTION: It can be waived.MR. FIGLIULO: - therefore, it can be waived, andthere's tolling agreements that are entered into regularly-QUESTION: Exactly.MR. FIGLIULO: - with respect to statute oflimitations -QUESTION: Right.MR. FIGLIULO: - and I think it could apply to th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. (a) as well.QUESTION: So you think the what's his case iswrong - what was the name of the one that -MR. FIGLIULO: I think it was Barley, In reBarley, Your Honor. I think that case said that thestipulation was not -QUESTION: And was that a case in which the - inwhich the court expressly addressed the issue and say -and said, I'm not going to allow - I'm not going to permitthe extension of time?MR. FIGLIULO: I think that was.QUESTION: That - that's - that's far differentthan just a waiver.MR. FIGLIULO: I do understand.QUESTION: There the judges said, you're - we're not going to allow you to delay the processes of thiscourt, and that's quite different than parties simplydoing it on their own without the judges' intervention.MR. FIGLIULO: I agree, Your Honor, and the rule,like Rule (b) or ()(b) focuses on motions forextension and enlargement and it is strict and it doesprovide the guidelines for the court to follow, but I -QUESTION: I - I'm not sure what you're sayingnow. You -MR. FIGLIULO: Well - th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. QUESTION: - you think in Barley, when theparties signed an agreement to extend the time limit, thecourt should have accepted?MR. FIGLIULO: I believe that, yes.QUESTION: Okay.MR. FIGLIULO: But I think the court - the reasonin the court, as I understood it, was that they could notagree to do that because extensions and enlargement oftime is governed by the rule and that it wasn't permittedby the rule. But in this case I think we have a classicsituation where we have a limitations period that's the -it should have been raised in the answer. It was notraised in the answer. It wasn't raised until after thecourt granted summary judgment. That's a classic case ofan implied waiver of a limitations defense and the court recognized that at the bankruptcy level, it's beenrecognized that way at the district court level, it's beenrecognized that way by the Seventh Circuit, and it's a, Ithink, percent right.It's also directly in accord with the backgroundprinciples of waiver that apply to a civil-type action.QUESTION: Would you agree - do you agree withthe Government that if the statute in question, not thebankruptcy rule, but at (b)()(J), if that requiredtimely objection as some other statutes in the bankruptcy th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. realm do, then you would lose, if the statute rather thanthe rule required timely objection?MR. FIGLIULO: I think if the statute provided -if Section provided timely, like it does forabstention, I think that would make the rules more of anexercise of the code and perhaps a stronger basis forarguing the mandatory strictness of the rules. I do notthink it would make it jurisdictional.QUESTION: Well, many - many statute oflimitations are, of course, enacted by the legislaturerather than by rule, and nonetheless you have tollingthere, do you not?MR. FIGLIULO: Exactly, Your Honor. In fact,traditionally, and as this Court has recognized from timeto time, that statute of limitations, which are phrased in mandatory terms, are silent with respect to whethercertain exceptions or defenses traditionally apply, butregularly apply those, and that would apply particularlyhere where the bankruptcy court is a court of equity, andwaiver is one of those principles.QUESTION: In the typical case there's not awhole bunch of people who are hanging on the resolution ofthis issue. I mean, what's involved here is, I mean, it -it says no later than days after the first date setfor meeting of creditors. The problem is you have a whole th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. bunch of people who don't know what their rights are goingto be until this matter is settled and it - it seems to methat it's - it's quite reasonable to insist uponcompliance with that time limit no matter what, becausethere are other people's interests involved.MR. FIGLIULO: Your Honor, I don't quarrel withthe fact that the time limit is important and it serves avalid purpose, but when we look at waiver - and we're nottalking about exceptions to extend time here, we'relooking at the defendant's obligation to - to assert atimely objection to the untimeliness of the complaint. That promotes finality because that brings the issue to ahead and it - it conserves judicial resources - it doeseverything waivers should do.QUESTION: But are you -QUESTION: Except - except that it does not leadto the conclusion that they should be able voluntarily toagree to extend the time period, which - which is aposition you support?MR. FIGLIULO: It's a position I support but it'snot critical to the -QUESTION: Well -MR. FIGLIULO: - position that we advocate, but Ido think it's right, because I do think -QUESTION: Well, would you - would you agree that th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. a district court could override that determination of theparties, say I'm not going to allow the late filing? Other - the rights of other persons are involved and thedistrict court in the hypothetical case says, I know thisis not jurisdictional but it is within my control.MR. FIGLIULO: I think the - the bankruptcy courtlevel, that probably would be within the court'sdiscretion, but I - my view is that it's - it's like atolling agreement and it should be permitted, because astatute of limitations or a limitations period is apersonal defense. Now, if there's extraordinarycircumstances where the court refuses to enforce theagreement, I can't conceive of why that would bepermitted.QUESTION: Isn't the difference between the statute of limitations and the case we've got here that inthe statute of limitations case we make the assumptionthat the only two interested parties are the plaintiff andthe defendant, and if they don't care, why should anybodyelse? In this case, however, there are other interestedparties and there is a pretty well-articulatedgovernmental interest in wrapping this up quickly. So itseems to me that in - in the bankruptcy case, the courtwould have every reason, if it was brought to itsattention, e.g., in the form of a stipulation, to say, no, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. I'm going to keep the ball rolling fast. Isn't that thedistinction?MR. FIGLIULO: Your Honor, I think that's a sounddistinction. I - I happen to believe thatdischargeability is a complaint for objecting todischargeability primarily affects the objecting party andthe debtor, and while there may be other rights of peopleimplicated, it's still very personal with respect to thedebtor and the creditor who's making the objection todischarge. And that would also be even more true withrespect to dischargeability of particular debts as in.So I understand the policy consideration, thereis a distinction there. I - I've probably bitten off morethan I should have with respect to whether that can be agreed on or not -QUESTION: You don't have to maintain that.(Laughter.)QUESTION: Why don't you recognize that -MR. FIGLIULO: But I do -QUESTION: - that this is simply - the questionis essentially, where does one draw the line? And onemight say, even if the objection to the timeliness isn'traised in the initial answer, it could be raised in anamendment to the answer. It could even be raised in th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. opposition to the summary judgment motion. But therecomes a point where it's too late to make that objection,and that's essentially the question for us: Where do youdraw the line when it's too late? Now, it could be onappeal, it could be after adjudication on the merits inthe trial court. So on that question of where do we drawthe line about raising this objection, what is yourposition?MR. FIGLIULO: I know that in this case, once -once the court adjudicates the merits, it is waived, it'sover, it's too late. I would -QUESTION: And that's all you have to maintain toprevail here?MR. FIGLIULO: I do believe - I do believe thatwhether there's been an implied waiver or a waiver has some of a fact inquiry that's necessary. It can be asearly as the failure to raise it in the answer, but I dorecognize the liberal rules of amendment to answers andthat may be permitted it by the court in its discretion,so it's not a bright line before judgment, it's not brightline where you draw the line, in my judgement, but in -and certainly once the court rules, it's too late.QUESTION: I have one question of bankruptcypractice. You just - you can tell me how it works. Isthe - is the order for the first meeting of creditors, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. which is what triggers the - the time limit here, is -does that date often fluctuate the - the order of thefirst meeting of creditor and then they'll - and thenthey'll change it?MR. FIGLIULO: No, that - it's pretty set, YourHonor. That - it can happen, but that's unusual. Thedate is - the set - there's notice that goes out and it'sa relatively fixed point in time from which thesedeadlines then are calculated.QUESTION: There was a timely complaint filed andit is a little odd that it was never argued that, well,this is really within the - within the frame of theoriginal complaint, so it - it should relate back. Whydidn't you argue that?MR. FIGLIULO: Your Honor, that was argued before the bankruptcy court. The bankruptcy court did notdiscuss it at all in its opinion. It was argued beforethe district court. It wasn't discussed by the districtcourt at all. My client represented himself pro se beforethe Seventh Circuit. It was not raised in the briefs onappeal, so with respect to whether that's an alternativegrounds for affirmance, that's been waived, somewhatironically, but I think it has been.QUESTION: If you're through I'd like to ask youan irrelevant question. I don't want to take your time. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. I noticed Judge Schwartz ordered a special hearing onsanctions at the end of the proceeding. What happened atthat hearing?MR. FIGLIULO: Your Honor, I wasn't involved atthat time. My - my understanding is that there was a lotof stuff going back and forth and there was a sanction ofattorneys' fees of $, or $, assessed. That's -that's what my recollection is.QUESTION: I gather it was a pretty acrimoniousproceeding in the district court.MR. FIGLIULO: It - it was, Your Honor. It'sformer partners and we know that -QUESTION: Is your view on this as a bankruptcyattorney thinking, I mean, I don't see that it affectsyour client one way or the other, but, I mean, obviously the Solicitor General in this case has suggested anaffirmance on the very narrow ground that maybe they'requite right about what the rule should be interpreted, butstill they lost the chance to raise the rule because theydidn't raise it. All right, that's a very narrow ground. On the other hand, the split in the circuits is more onthe broader question of how absolute are these rules in -how absolute are the deadlines in this particular rule,and that's a broader question, which is also a possibleground for affirmance, so either way your client would th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. win. But, as a bankruptcy lawyer, what's your opinion?MR. FIGLIULO: My - and I approach this withlittle trepidation, but I believe equitable exceptions,the traditional equitable exceptions of tolling andequitable estoppel, continue to apply and should apply toRule (a) and . I don't think they've beenexpressly abrogated. I think they're such a powerful part-QUESTION: A problem then about the other partthat says you can't extend the deadlines in this main partexcept for the reasons that are there given, which is goodcause, et cetera, what do we do about that?MR. FIGLIULO: I - I think the - the - Rule(b) or (b), it eliminates excusable neglect as agrounds for extending time for a late-filed motion, but I don't think it eliminates equitable tolling. I think it'sdifferent. I think tolling and excusable neglect overlapsome cases, and to the extent it's excusable neglect, it'snot grounds for extension, but a - a true tolling -QUESTION: What would be a cause for tolling ifexcusable neglect is out of it? It seems to me that thisrule is saying there are no exceptions, period, and to saythat even if you can show good cause you don't get itextended, but there's some other equitable.MR. FIGLIULO: I - it's a relatively - I think th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. equitable tolling, in the context of this rule, isrelatively narrow exception, it's not - it's littlebroader than the unique circumstances that relate to if aparty's misled by a rule of court. But I do think that itcan - there can be circumstances, for example, if aclient's lawyer dies right before the deadline is -passes, and there's -QUESTION: Why isn't that excusable neglect?MR. FIGLIULO: I don't think it's neglect. I - Ithink there's equitable tolling and - and that - that'swhy I do think it survives in some way, but I - it's notcritical to our position. Our position is waiver. Ithink we're classically correct. It's approached underthe adversary proceeding rules, which engage all the rulesof civil procedure, which we all know about, it's a familiar arena, and it should apply as - as it has beenapplied by the lower courts, and I ask that this Courtaffirm it. Thank you very much.QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. Figliulo.Mr. Jones, we'll hear from you.ORAL ARGUMENT OF KENT L. JONESON BEHALF OF THE UNITED STATES AS AMICUS CURIAESUPPORTING THE RESPONDENTMR. JONES: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it pleasethe Court: th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. I have very little to add to what's already beensaid because basically what's been said by respondent isour view as well, which is that this is a question ofwaiver, not a question of enlargement or extension of thetime to file a timely complaint, and the one thing I dowant to add, though, is that the court of appeals, itseems to us, correctly pointed out that there is a rules-based answer to the waiver question as well as the generalprinciples that we have articulated.The rules-based answer is alluded to byrespondent, which is the Rule (d) expresslyincorporates through Part of the bankruptcy code thepleading requirements of (c) of the Federal Rules ofCivil Procedure. Now, that means that the - the debtorhas an obligation to plead his affirmative defenses at the answer or they would be treated as waived. This was anaffirmative defense, and so just by applying the rules itwas subject to waiver when it was not raised in theanswer. We think the court was right in exercising itsdiscretion to determine that when it's not raised untilafter the trial, or in this case after summary judgmentwas entered, it's plainly too late, and it was waived.QUESTION: Mr. Jones, when - at what point inthat spectrum would it have been tiled permissible toallow it? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. MR. JONES: The broad answer to that question -well, the first answer is, that's not been raised. They've - they've suggested it can't be waived, not thatthe court abused its discretion. The answer to yourquestion, though, is that it's - if it would not be toolate to amend the answer, then it's not forfeited orwaived.answer?QUESTION: Well, when is it too late to amend theMR. JONES: That's - there's a - a whole body ofprecedent about that, and as respondent correctly says,it's clearly too late once the judgment has beendetermined. If -QUESTION: Now wait, do you mean judgment is - isdetermined, or judgment is entered?MR. JONES: In this case judgment was announcedafter the trial. I - let me back up. I think that it's -the court retains discretion to allow an amendment up tothe pre-trial stage. Up to the pre-trial answer, thecourt sometimes allows complaints to be amended in itsdiscretion, and -QUESTION: Well, quite frequently, does it not,at pre-trial?MR. JONES: Not infrequently, but it's also thecase that sometimes amendments are denied at that point th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. because of the particularity, facts of the case. But mypoint is simply, at this stage of the case it's clearlyhave been waived and - and -QUESTION: Well, now, at this stage of the case,judgment had not yet been entered, but the motion forsummary judgment had been granted. You - are you sayingit can never be done at that stage?MR. JONES: It would be - I - I think that it -it might be not an abusive direction - there's a lot ofnots there. A court might be able to exercise discretionif it thought in the circumstances it was appropriate, butit is a matter committed to the discretion of the trialcourt, and certainly at that stage it was well within itsdiscretion, and again, that issue hasn't been presented orraised. What was raised is the idea you can't waive it, and the reason that it was raised in that fashion is theysaid it's jurisdictional. But it's - but they'veconceded, both in their reply brief and in - and in courttoday, that it doesn't affect the subject matterjurisdiction of the court. And the cases are clear that -QUESTION: How do you - how do you reconcile yourview about the court having such broad discretion with -with the wording of (b), which says that on motion,the court may for cause extend the time, but the motion th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. shall be filed before the time has expired? And whatyou're saying is, well, it really doesn't matter, thecourt has discretion to go ahead even though the motionwasn't filed before the time has expired.MR. JONES: I'm sorry, Justice Scalia. Thequestion that I was answering was whether the court haddiscretion to accept the late-raised objection to the latecomplaint.QUESTION: I'm sorry.MR. JONES: And that's a different - and I dothink the court has that discretion. Whether it had -would have had discretion to allow a late complaint atthat - at some later point really isn't before the Court,because they haven't claimed that there is any equitablegrounds for enlarging or extending the deadline, so that question isn't presented.QUESTION: I don't - you're distinguishingbetween granting - I'm sorry - granting -MR. JONES: The -QUESTION: - granting a late-raised objection andgranting a late-filed complaint?MR. JONES: Correct.QUESTION: Okay.MR. JONES: Under ordinary principles of (c) andthe Rules of Federal Procedure which are applicable here. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. My point is that a court could allow the late-raiseddefense that it - that the complaint was untimely, up tosome point it would have discretion to do that, but itexercised its discretion not to allow that late-raisedobjection, late-raised defense in this case.QUESTION: Well, the rule on amendment, which thepleading rules, the Federal rules would apply, says thatit should be - if after you miss the time limit in whichyou are allowed to amend as a matter of right, then youmay amend - and with the court's permission, and leaveshall be freely given when justice so requires.MR. JONES: That's the discretionary standard andI don't - I will be frank, I do not know if there's a casethat says that discretion stops at this point. That's notbefore the Court. It would just be odd for the Court to exercise such discretion after it had already determinedthat the judgment should be awarded to one of the parties. That's all I was trying to say.QUESTION: At the outset you said there's a text-based or a rule-based -MR. JONES: Rule-based.QUESTION: And that's (e)?MR. JONES: (b).QUESTION: (e)?MR. JONES: B. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. QUESTION: Where is - where is that?MR. JONES: It's at -QUESTION: Was that in - did you make thatargument in your brief?MR. JONES: We did not make that argument. Therespondent made the argument and the court of appeals madethe point. That provision is quoted in footnote ofrespondent's brief. It's a very short provision. It justsays that the - the procedures of Part will havegoverned, and then Rule says that incorporates Rule(c) of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure.Now, we have not addressed the question ofwhether equitable exceptions would be available under thisrule, but we do think that the Court's decision in theSantos case provides a sensible explanation of how to address that question. In Santos, the Court made thepoint that the rules appear to say you cannot extend byexcusable neglect, but that doesn't preclude equitableestoppel, because estoppel is based on the misconduct ofthe debtor, excusable neglect is the neglect of thecreditor. So not allowing an extension for neglectdoesn't preclude allowing an extension for estoppel.QUESTION: So you think this is a totallydifferent issue and it's a much broader issue and moreimportant - th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. MR. JONES: This is a much - this is -QUESTION: And you think, in other words, if theyhad come in and said, hey, we - I've been taking all themoney out of wife's account, putting - put it in - youknow, I put it all in her name, ha ha ha, and I had hiredpeople to prevent the creditor from ever finding out, thatthen the correct defense there would be equitableestoppel, which is an enlargement of the time period?MR. JONES: If the - if I understood yourhypothetical, if the basis of the estoppel was that -QUESTION: I'm - I'm assuming they acted veryinequitably.MR. JONES: - that we were unable to find - theyhid from us what they were doing -QUESTION: Yes, yes.MR. JONES: - yes, I think that would apply. ButI should also point out that in that specific factualscenario, (d) of the bankruptcy code would allow thedischarge to be reopened in -QUESTION: You see, that - that's the argumentthe other way. The argument the other way is you don'treally need to import these defenses into the rule itselfbecause there are other ways in the bankruptcy law that anunfair kind of conduct that can be dealt with.MR. JONES: If, to the extent that there are th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. other ways to deal with it, then equity doesn't need tostep in if there's an adequate legal remedy. But if -when there's not an adequate answer in the code to this -to whatever facts come up about the estoppel situation,we would think that the rules don't preclude the court -QUESTION: Mr. Kent, as I remember the - thiscase itself, the debtor was never secretive about what hehad done. He told the creditors, he told everybody, yeah,I took my name off the account -MR. JONES: Yes. QUESTION: - but I continued to deposit my salaryin it, I continued to pay the family expenses from it. Itwasn't concealed.MR. JONES: It's a hypothetical -QUESTION: It's a hypothetical case. I'm tryingto get to the issue the - that's bothering me. Can youjust give me one word about whether my belief about theRule - it refers to a new trial motion in a civil case,motion to amend the opinion, JNOV, all those time limitsit says are absolute. Now, I take it it's never been heldor isn't at least normally held that a lawyer can sitthere, notice that the time limits weren't complied with,wait to see if he wins, and then if he loses, bring it upfor the first time on appeal. Am I right about that? Because they're saying, no, I'm not right about it. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. MR. JONES: Well, I - I think you're right aboutthat that you can waive an argument of any - based onthose rules in - in the trial court, but let me -QUESTION: Is it - do you know of any case, Mr.Kent, because those are all motions that are brought afterthe trial, after the adjudication, and I can't imagine ascenario where a lawyer who won would then - and the otherparty moves for a new trial - would then say nothing.MR. JONES: I'm not familiar with a case of thattype, but there - I can imagine that there's a case outthere that says something along the following, that thisCourt's jurisdiction, by statute, is based on therequirement, for example, that there be a notice of appealfiled within days.QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. Jones.Mr. Poor, you have minutes remaining. REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF E. KING POORON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERMR. POOR: I'd like to return to the - thefundamental point is when these were adopted, (b) waspatterned after (b), and that identical language, as thisCourt instructed in the Robinson case, should be read tobe mandatory and jurisdictional, that is, not waiveable. And if we look at a case like Santos, there's nothing inthe language that allows Santos to pick and choose between th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. - between saying equitable estoppel would - would notapply but waiver would apply. The only possible way youcan get there in Santos is not through the text, notthrough the language, which Robinson has told us ismandatory and jurisdictional. The only way you can getthere is through the - a policy argument that says, wethink it's a good idea not to have equitable estoppel, buton the other hand, yeah, for policy reasons, we - weshould allow waiver to apply.And if you allow waiver, whether it is waiver inthe implied sense of inaction or waiver in the expresssense of allowing a stipulation, in that case, you willhave really taken what is in the text and these are nolonger jurisdictional rules without exception. Rather,they have become rules that the parties themselves may change, and this deadline has never been like a statute oflimitations. It has always been different. It allows theparties to, before there's any - before there's anyadjudication, any deadline, to take discovery and move thedeadline along. That's not like a typical statute oflimitation, and the reason for that is the text. The textsays it may only be extended to the extent and under theconditions stated, the exact language that was at issue inCarlisle and in Robinson, and we would submit that youhave to read the same language in the same way, whether th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. it's (b), (b), Criminal Rule (b), they all arebased on the same language.CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: Thank you, Mr. Poor. The case is submitted.(Whereupon, at : a.m., the case in theabove-entitled matter was submitted.) th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. 