 IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XJO ANNE B. BARNHART, COMMISSIONER OF SOCIAL SECURITY, Petitioner ::::v. : No. -PAULINE THOMAS. :- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XWashington, D.C.Tuesday, October , The above-entitled matter came on for oralargument before the Supreme Court of the United States at: a.m.APPEARANCES:JEFFREY A. LAMKEN, ESQ., Assistant to the SolicitorGeneral, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; onbehalf of the Petitioner. ABRAHAM S. ALTER, ESQ., Rahway, New Jersey; on behalf of the Respondent. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY C O N T E N T SORAL ARGUMENT OF JEFFREY A. LAMKEN, ESQ. On behalf of the Petitioner ABRAHAM S. ALTER, ESQ.On behalf of the Respondent REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OFJEFFREY A. LAMKEN, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioner PAGE th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY P R O C E E D I N G S(: a.m.)CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: We'll hear argumentnow in No. -, Jo Anne Barnhart v. Pauline Thomas.Mr. Lamken.ORAL ARGUMENT OF JEFFREY A. LAMKENON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERMR. LAMKEN: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court:As the Commissioner of Social Security has longconstrued the disability insurance program, there can beno finding of disability unless at least two conditionsare met. First, the claimant's impairment must be of suchseverity that she cannot -- she is unable to do her previous work. Second, the impairments must be of suchseverity that the claimant cannot, considering her age,education, and experience, engage in any other kind ofsubstantial, gainful work which exists in the nationaleconomy.Construing and applying those provisions formore than decades, the commissioner has consistentlyconcluded that if a claimant continues to function at alevel sufficient to meet the demands of past work, thenthe claimant is not disabled without the necessity ofinquiring into whether that particular past job exists in th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY significant numbers. That's the most natural reading ofthe statutory text.QUESTION: Mr. Lamken, this case, I think,involves provisions of both title II and title XVI of theact, and there are regulations under each.MR. LAMKEN: That is correct. It is --QUESTION: Now, are there any relevantdifferences in the text of the two statutes or the regs onthis issue?MR. LAMKEN: No, Your Honor. We don't believethat there are any relevant differences, that thecommissioner's regulations and the statutes themselves areall phrased in parallel if not identical languagethroughout.There is one difference in that for a disabilityinsurance, these title II provisions, you have to besomeone who has paid into the program in order to beeligible for benefits on the way out; whereas, title XVIis more of a welfare program where whether you've paid inin the past doesn't matter. But that simply means thatone who has paid into the title II program would getconsiderably more benefits than one who has not.QUESTION: But on the test.MR. LAMKEN: On the test, it is an identicaltest. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY QUESTION: There's no difference. MR. LAMKEN: There is no test, Justice O'Connor.QUESTION: Thank you. MR. LAMKEN: That construction preserves thedistinction long recognized in the commissioner'sregulations, in fact, recognizing the commissioner'sregulations from the earliest days of administering thisstatute. Between disability insurance, on the one hand,and insurance against other causes of unemployment, suchas technological and economic change, on the other, anindividual who's doing a job who remains fully capable ofdoing that job, but then loses the job because of economicchange or perhaps the job never existed in significantnumbers and the individual chooses to leave, is not unable to engage in that activity by reason of an impairment,which is the test under the statute for being entitled tobenefits. And it made sense for Congress to draw that linebecause if someone continues to function at a levelsufficient to meet the demands of their previous work,it's virtually certain that they're capable of doing somework whether or not that particular past job exists insignificant numbers in the national economy. The pointisn't that the person is expected to return to thatparticular past job. Rather, it is their continued th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY functioning at a level sufficient to meet the demands ofthat job provides a highly accurate and administrable testof the fact that they continue to function at a levelsufficient to meet the demands of work generally. In a program that must resolve more than million claims a year, the need for that type of a highlyadministrable test, that type of highly accurate test isparticularly acute. And this is precisely the type oftest one would have expected Congress to provide.A potentially large number of Americans today donot work in jobs that exist in significant numbers in thenational economy. When those workers leave their jobs,whether they quit, are fired for misconduct, or leave forother reasons which are good and sufficient, the court of appeals would preclude the commissioner from denying thembenefits based on their continued capacity to do that pastjob even if that job is still available to them, even ifthe employer is on the phone begging them to return to thejob. The commissioner reasonably construed the statute asnot compelling that result.If there are no questions, I will reserve theremainder of my time for rebuttal. QUESTION: I have a -- a question about theconsistency of the argument you're now making with the --with the commissioner's regulation concerning you don't go th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY back more than years. That seems to be a recognitionthat even if a person can do the job that he or she did years ago, yet there's a likelihood that maybe that kindof work isn't in abundant supply anymore.MR. LAMKEN: Justice O'Connor, the concern ofthat -year --QUESTION: I'm Justice Ginsburg. MR. LAMKEN: Oh, Justice Ginsburg. The concern of that regulation isn't whether ornot that particular past job exists in significantnumbers. It provides an administrable and in factprophylactic test to make sure that the demands of thatjob are demands that are ones that are likely to berelevant in the national economy. It's unlikely that a set of demands of a job would completely disappear fromthe economy entirely during any one person's lifetime.But to make assurance doubly sure, to makeabsolutely certain, the commissioner has set forth anadministrable bright line, -year rule that says if thejob is more than -- if you did the job more than yearsago, we won't consider it out of that concern. But it isnot a consideration of whether the particular past jobexists. It's a consideration to make sure that yourcontinued ability to the demands of that job is anappropriate and accurate measure of your ability -- your th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY level of functioning, and that your level of functioningis consistent with work generally. If there are no further --QUESTION: May I ask this question just aboutthe facts of this case, Mr. Lamken? When this applicantsuffered her physical impairment -- I forget just what itwas now -- she was able to go out and find a job as a -- a-- an elevator operator. Right?MR. LAMKEN: That's correct. From -- if Iremember correctly, from to , she worked as anelevator operator.QUESTION: If the absence of elevator jobs hadoccurred earlier and she hadn't been able to find thisjob, she would clearly be disabled, wouldn't she? MR. LAMKEN: No, Justice Stevens, I'm not surethat she would be found disabled. The commissioner wouldhave gone through the steps and -- and determined whetheror not she had a severe --QUESTION: She would have made the fifth step.MR. LAMKEN: If you were not to consider the --the previous work of an elevator operator and you onlyapplied the fifth step, which is the other work step, inisolation, that's correct, that she would have been foundnot able to do other work in the national economy. Butthe fifth step is designed to work in conjunction with all th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY the other previous steps and, standing alone, does notnecessarily represent an accurate determination.Congress provided two conditions that must bemet, previous work and other work, precisely because thesomewhat abstract inquiry into other work that plaintiffhas -- the claimant has never done may not be a fullyaccurate or necessarily an easily administered mechanismfor determining the level of work that the claimant cando.QUESTION: See, the thought that was runningthrough my mind, just to put it on the table, is that in asense perhaps the Government's position creates adisincentive to look for other marginal jobs when you'rein this position. You might be better off just not to look.MR. LAMKEN: Justice Stevens, the commissioner'srules actually take into account incentives to look forwork through the unsuccessful work attempt regulations. And so that is something that has been dealt with. Andthe same -- the same problem existed in the Walton case,for example. It is unfortunate that sometimes people, byengaging in socially desirable conduct, going out andworking, will actually provide the evidence that showsthat they're capable of working, but that is just anecessary consequence of a program that -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY QUESTION: Capable of working in a disappearingspecies of jobs.MR. LAMKEN: Well, Justice Stevens, the keypoint about the court of appeals decision is not limitedto cases of job obsolescence. It's any time somebody isworking in a job that may never have existed insubstantial numbers. If they leave that job for whateverreason, if they quit or are fired for misconduct, underthe court of appeals rule, the commissioner cannot denythem benefits based on their demonstrated ability to dothat job.QUESTION: Suppose in Justice Stevens'hypothetical the employer said, you know, you can operatethe elevator but it's just going to be going for months. We're rehabbing the building and after that -- it's just a-month job.MR. LAMKEN: Right.QUESTION: Then -- then is she again barredunder step four?MR. LAMKEN: Justice Kennedy, that would -- itwould depend on whether or not that sort of a temporaryposition would qualify as substantial, gainful work underthe commissioner's regulations. If it is a make-workposition or it's a position that does not representfunctioning at a level -- it's a sheltered position or it th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY is some other -- some other reason that it is not evidenceof functioning --QUESTION: No, no. She can -- she can performthe elevator job completely well.MR. LAMKEN: If this is something --QUESTION: Everybody knows it's a -- it's a jobthat's soon to be obsolete, and she's told that.MR. LAMKEN: Justice Kennedy, I think --QUESTION: She'd be better off not taking thatjob.MR. LAMKEN: In terms of getting --QUESTION: Or suppose -- or -- or suppose shedidn't take that job. Would she then still be barred?MR. LAMKEN: If the -- if she did take the job, Justice Kennedy, and the job represented functioning at alevel that's consistent with work generally that issubstantial, gainful work, she would be barred. And sheperhaps might be better off not taking the -- taking a joblike that under the commissioner's regulations. However, the mere fact that somebody taking ajob provides evidence that they function at a level thatis consistent with past work doesn't mean that we shouldcome up with less accurate determinations by ignoringtheir demonstrated capacity to engage in their -- in theirpast work. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY If there are no further questions. QUESTION: Yes.QUESTION: Very well, Mr. --QUESTION: One -- one -- just one furtherquestion. In -- in this case if she made it to step five,it wouldn't be just a question that the burden would beswitched to the Government, she would automaticallyprevail. Isn't that the case? Because of her age?MR. LAMKEN: That's correct, Justice Ginsburg. The -- the way the commissioner's grids are set up, theymake various assumptions regarding the effects of age, theexertion levels demanded by particular jobs, and othermatters. And because it is a somewhat hypotheticalinquiry to look into the many jobs somebody hasn't done in the past, the step five inquiry sometimes will render --will deem somebody not -- will deem somebody disabled eventhough they actually can work.It is precisely because of that reason thatCongress provided two measures of capacity to work: ahighly empirical one, can the person do the jobs theyactually have previously done in the past; and second,whether or not the person can engage in the other jobsthat they haven't actually done in the past. And becausethe two steps work more accurately together, that's why we-- one of the reasons we believe that Congress provided th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY those two steps. In addition, it also preserves the line betweenpeople who become unemployed because of their impairment,and ones who happen to be fully capable of doing theirpast jobs but lose those jobs for whatever reason, such aseither technological obsolescence or they simply choose toleave those jobs voluntarily. If there are no further questions. QUESTION: Very well, Mr. Lamken.Mr. Alter, we'll hear from you.ORAL ARGUMENT OF ABRAHAM S. ALTERON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTMR. ALTER: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it pleasethe Court:Today the commissioner argues against its owntheme of providing a remedy when someone is disabled.Congress did, indeed, intend to make adifference, to separate step four, previous work, fromstep five, or other work, but Congress told us what thatseparation is.At the fourth step, previous work, age is not afactor, education is not a factor, and prior workexperience is not a factor. This is simply because if aperson wasn't too old to do his job or her job in , weassume they weren't too old to do it in . If a person th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY had the requisite education and skill level to perform thepast job in , then they have the same skill level andeducation level in . And of course, prior workexperience is irrelevant at step four because we'retalking about the actual job that she did.What Congress didn't intend was to pretend thata job that doesn't exist can still be used to denybenefits. Work has to be substantial. The commissionerconcedes that. It has to be gainful. The commissionerconcedes that. And it has to exist.QUESTION: But your -- no. It has to exist insubstantial numbers in the national economy. What you're-- you're arguing that a job that does exist and that thisparticular supposedly disabled person used to perform and which is offered to that supposedly disabled person butwhich that person turns down can, nonetheless, not countagainst the person's disability.MR. ALTER: That is correct, Justice Scalia. QUESTION: So it seems to me it's your positionthat -- that presents a really extraordinary situation. Let's say I'm a juggler, and I become disabled. And --and the circus I was a juggler at comes and says, youknow, we -- we want you back. We can't find anotherjuggler. There aren't that many because there are notthat many juggler jobs in the national economy. Okay? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY And I turn them down. I say, I'm tired of juggling. Andyou say that I'm handicapped even though my -- my priorjob is -- is right there waiting for me. That seems to mean extraordinary result.MR. ALTER: That is exactly what I'm saying,Judge Scalia -- Justice Scalia. I'm sorry. And thereason I say that is because a person is not disabled ornot disabled at any one step of the sequential evaluation. Your Honor's question focuses on the immediate reason forthe disengagement of the person from the workforce. That's not the commissioner's position. That hasn't beenthe commissioner's position. A person is not disabled ornot disabled because of Ringling Brothers calls them onthe phone and says, please, come back. They are disabled by operation of the sequential evaluation.And the commissioner is the one who promulgatedthe sequential evaluation. And the sequential evaluationis a recipe with alternating steps regarding medical andvocational factors. And --QUESTION: The commissioner has explained thatit's -- using this test, can you perform your most recentjob, as a proxy for instead of testing people to see therange of light work that exists in the economy. They say,we're just using this as a shorthand because it'sadministratively convenient. And it's not using it to th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY say, this person can do this job that's obsolescing,therefore she is not disabled. This particular job is aproxy for other jobs that require the same skill level.Now, what's wrong with taking that positioninstead of subjecting people to a whole battery of tests?MR. ALTER: Justice Ginsburg, your rendition ofthe commissioner's argument is exactly correct. If I werepermitted to ask a question, I would ask myself a proxyfor what. It is a -- the job doesn't exist. So,therefore, her ability to do the job --QUESTION: In substantial numbers in thenational economy.MR. ALTER: National economy.QUESTION: The very job may exist and be open for her to take.MR. ALTER: Correct, but in most cases itwouldn't be open for her to take. That's the extremeposition where -- and that's our position that happened inthis case. And that's a very extreme position. And itwould be an unintended consequence of the statute.But Your Honor is absolutely correct that thatis their position, that past work, even if it doesn'texist in substantial numbers, is a proxy for her abilityto do other work. What other work?At the fifth step, she's disabled because she th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY would not be able to make an adjustment to other workwhich exists in substantial numbers in the nationaleconomy, according to the commissioner's statistics.QUESTION: Well, it's not according to thecommissioner. It's according to the statute.Can -- can we focus on the -- on the words ofthe statute? It says that the mental impairments --physical or mental impairments are of such severity thathe is not only unable to do -- not only unable to do hisprevious work, but cannot, considering his age, education,and work experience, engage in any other kind ofsubstantial, gainful work which exists in the nationaleconomy. Now, you want to take that last phrase, which exists in the national economy, and attribute it to theearlier phrase, previous work. But if that's whatCongress meant, why wouldn't they just have said that heis unable, considering his age, education, and workexperience, to engage in any substantial, gainful workwhich exists in the national economy?You -- you want to effectively read the firstphrase, is not only unable to do his previous work, rightout of the statute. They may just as well have droppedit. We don't read statutes to contain words that aretotally superfluous, and you have made them totally th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY superfluous.MR. ALTER: On the contrary, Your Honor. Thewords, any other kind, would be superfluous. Congress,indeed, intended to make a difference between previouswork and any other kind of work, and that difference is,besides age, education, and prior work experience, whichare irrelevant at step five -- they wanted to have theburden on the claimant for disability to show at the firstfour steps that she is disabled.At the fifth step, it is the commissioner whomust show that she isn't disabled. And that's why thewords, which exist in the national economy, are in thereto begin with because what they wanted to preclude was thecommissioner saying, well, you can't do your prior job, but you can be a juggler.QUESTION: Well, you see -- can we go back for asecond to Justice Ginsburg's question? Does this -- Imean, your reading of it is a possible reading, I -- Iagree. But they're saying their reading makesadministrative sense.Now, this is my understanding of it. A personhas a bad back. Now, there are bad backs and bad backs,but it's not a good thing to have. So she has a bad back,and we want to know how bad it is. And they're saying ifit's very bad, she automatically is going to get the money th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY because at step three they'll look and see and say, look,this is a pretty bad back. It meets our criteria. That'sthe end of it.But if it's medium bad, then what they're goingto say is, well, first question is can she still do herlast job as an elevator operator. And if the answer tothat question is yes, that's the end of it.And, therefore, if the answer, however, is no,then we've to go and gear up our vocational experts. Arethere dolls' eyes' sewers? You know, they have a few oddjobs they usually bring in here --MR. ALTER: I know. QUESTION: -- to show they exist in the nationaleconomy. And -- and we get -- we don't want to go through that rigmarole.So for a medium bad back, if you can still doyour previous work as an elevator operator, you're notthat handicapped. That's the end of it. Go to theunemployment office. Don't go to the -- the healthoffice. Now, what -- that to me makes sense. Now, whatto you doesn't make sense?MR. ALTER: Oh, it doesn't make sense at allYour Honor, to me, obviously. (Laughter.) th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY QUESTION: No, no. Well, go ahead. MR. ALTER: Your Honor's question seems to makestep four, previous work, a gauge as to how severe thesevere impairment is.QUESTION: Exactly, and I think they suggestthat might be so. MR. ALTER: And -- but step four, previous work,is a remedy that the commissioner can use for theirconvenience. Why look at every job in the nationaleconomy? Let's start here and see if that medium bad backwould preclude her from her past job. But to what end? So that she can resume that job. It seems to me, YourHonor, that once --QUESTION: So you're not saying it is to that end because it's the unemployment office that's concernedabout people who are out of work because you don't haveelevator operators in the economy anymore. That -- it'snot the Social Security office, they say, which isconcerned about people who are physically hurt or mentallyhurt.MR. ALTER: Number one, Your Honor, PaulineThomas could never collect unemployment insurance becausethe first thing they would ask her, are you ready,willing, and able to work? Do you have any medicalproblems? Once she has a severe impairment, at step two th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY the unemployment argument, issue, or -- or controversy isover. Once she shows -- because that's the threshold. When the -- when the statute says, by reason of amedically determinable impairment, it doesn't meanexclusively for medical reasons. But once she shows thatmedical impairment, to who? To the satisfaction of thecommissioner. Once the commissioner says, yes, you have asevere impairment, then vocational issues, such as, okay,you can do a job, but does the job exist, become paramountbecause the -- the purpose of the statute, it seems to me,is to provide a remedy. Now, there are two remedies that are possibleafter this sequential evaluation process. Remedy one,there are no jobs existing in significant numbers in the national economy that you can do. So here's yourbenefits. Remedy two, you know what? There are jobsexisting, whether it's your job, whether it's another job. And therefore, we've done you a favor. We've told youthat the economy can accommodate you after your injury. Therefore, go get that job.QUESTION: Mr. Alter, if --if we think thestatute may have certain ambiguities in it, why don't weowe deference to the Secretary's regulations andinterpretation, which has been pretty consistent throughthe years? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY MR. ALTER: There are three answers to thatquestion, Your Honor. First of all, I'm -- I'mcrestfallen that -- that the Court would find that there'sambiguity. But given that -- that they would --QUESTION: If we think there is. (Laughter.) QUESTION: And if we're not crestfallen.(Laughter.) QUESTION: Pick up your crest and go on, Mr.Alter. (Laughter.) MR. ALTER: If the statute is ambiguous, thecommissioner's construction must still be reasonable. Here, I would say it is not reasonable. That's the first. Because it -- it begs reality. The reality is this jobdoesn't exist in substantial numbers. Or at least, wewant to be able to show that at an administrative hearing.QUESTION: Mr. Alter, how do you deal with thefact that a number of circuits and, indeed, three judgeson this en banc court thought exactly that, that this wasan ambiguous regulation, that it had been appliedconsistently by the Secretary, and that it was entirelyreasonable, the -- the notion that your current work is aproxy for can you do light work, that that's a -- not anecessary or inevitable one, but a reasonable one? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY MR. ALTER: Justice Ginsburg, first, let me takethe -- the last part of your sentence. Proxy to do lightwork. She wins at light work at step five. So again,it's a proxy to do light work.QUESTION: No. Step five in her case we'veestablished is an automatic. It's not that she's shownthat she can't do light work. The commissioner says,look, when you get to be years old, we're not going tomess with that. If you can't do your prior job, that'sit.MR. ALTER: But it's the reason why, Your Honor,because she can't make an adjustment to any jobs. If aperson can do light work, that proxy issue, she can do herpast job which is light, then she can do other light jobs. But the commissioner tells us that she won't be able toadjust to other light jobs. And will she be able toadjust to her current job? There is no adjustment to acurrent job, unless the job doesn't exist. But to answer your question about the othercircuits, the other circuits -- circuits focused on theregulation, focused on the ruling, -. That says,well, it doesn't make a difference whether the job exists. It's whether you can do that job. And most of the othercircuits said, well, the regulation says do your past job-- a strict reading of do your past job means the capacity th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY rather than a reality standard. But they didn't focus onthe statute. And if I might answer Judge -- JusticeO'Connor's question about ambiguity, if I haven't answeredyour question. QUESTION: No, you haven't because there'sanother piece of it. For the future, regulation thatdoesn't apply in your case, the -- the commissioner hasclarified that what we mean is can you do the physicalaspects of this job and we don't look to see whether it'san obsolescing job, a brand new regulation that doesn'tapply to your case. On your argument, I take it -- you're going nowback to the statute -- that new regulation is an impermissible construction of the statute.MR. ALTER: That is exactly correct, Your Honor.May I, Justice O'Connor, answer your question? The deference owed to their -- the commissioner'sconstruction of the statute is not much. It's Skidmoredeference. QUESTION: What?MR. ALTER: Skidmore deference, Skidmore v.Swift.QUESTION: Oh, I thought you said Skinmore. (Laughter.) th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY MR. ALTER: Chevron, the -- the great case, theelephant in this room -- Chevron has a two-step policy. The first one has been precluded by Your Honor's question,whether the statute is ambiguous. The second part says,well, it owes great deference to the commissioner'sposition, but not, Your Honor, in a construction of astatute. It is this Court's role to tell us what the lawis and what the law means. QUESTION: Now, what does Chevron amount to? Imean, if -- if you're -- it struck me always that the --the first step is is the statute ambiguous, and second, ifit is, is -- is the construction reasonable. It is bydefinition a construction of the statute you're talkingabout in the second step.MR. ALTER: Yes, Your Honor, but I believe underU.S. v. Mead the Court did make a distinction between a --an administrative policy --QUESTION: But Mead was -- but Mead was not aChevron case.MR. ALTER: Mead was a construction by an agencycase, and Mead says, I think -- my -- my reading is thatif a -- an administrative policy is at issue, greatdeference has to be given. But a construction of astatute -- an agency does not have deference, greatdeference, because of administrative -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY QUESTION: I -- I rather thought that's whatChevron was all about. I'm interested that you don'tthink so.MR. ALTER: Well, my reading, Your Honor, isthat Chevron deference will only apply to an agency'sstatutory interpretation if it emerged from a formaladjudication.QUESTION: I certainly don't see that in Mead. I -- I mean, I understand that there have been viewsaround taken from the dissent I think, that maybe that'swhat it says, but when I read it about times now --(Laughter.) QUESTION: -- it didn't seem to say that. Imean, it said that -- that certainly if they have formal proceedings, that would be a strong ground for thinkingthat we would apply Chevron. And if they didn't, itdoesn't mean we won't. Did you get all the doublenegatives? (Laughter.) MR. ALTER: I understand. All I can do isassert that if Chevron means that if we find some sort ofambiguity in a Federal statute, we give pretty much carteblanche to the agency. That was my reading of Chevron. That would be a disappointing reading of Chevron because Ithink -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY QUESTION: If it's reasonable. If the agencyhas given it a reasonable construction. And from formerquestions this morning, the suggestion is that theregulatory approach is kind of an administrative shortcutfor finding out whether this employee is basically able todo certain types of light work.MR. ALTER: I would argue, Your Honor, that itis not reasonable in any -- by any stretch of the wordbecause may I remind, Your Honor, that we're talking abouta job which may not exist at all, and a finding that aperson is not disabled because they're capable of doing ajob that doesn't exist can't be reasonable. If we take --I -- I say that --QUESTION: Why is that? What does -- what doesdisabled have to do with doing a job? I mean, disabled isa -- is a physical condition, and they say if you can dothe job you used to do, you're not disabled.MR. ALTER: Your Honor --QUESTION: The word is disabled, not unemployed. Unemployment insurance is something different. It's adifferent program. This program is not meant to providefor unemployment. It's meant to provide for disability.MR. ALTER: But what I meant --QUESTION: And all the -- all the Secretary issaying is if you can do your prior job, you're not th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY disabled. That seems quite logical to me. I --MR. ALTER: Let me try to highlight theillogical parts of that then, Your Honor. Unemployment has nothing to do with thislitigation. The person has a severe impairment. As amatter of fact, let's be precise. The person has cardiacarrhythmias. The person had a heart attack and returnedto work. The person had a -- a herniated disc andcervical radiculopathy. According to the commissioner'sconstruction here, the only job in the world that shecould adjust to is a job which may not exist.Once she has a severe impairment, Your Honor canbring up unemployment for the rest of the session, butunemployment is a red herring in this case because once you have a severe impairment, we're not talking aboutunemployment anymore. We're talking about --QUESTION: Then she should -- we should haveended it at step three, but the commissioner makes adistinction. And her impairment, because it wasn't on thechart, doesn't make it. She is not at that pointdisabled. You have to go on to the next step. If shewere disabled, that would be the end of it and we wouldn't-- but she isn't disabled under this formulation becauseshe's not within the conditions that that's the end of theexamination. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY MR. ALTER: Justice Ginsburg, your question andJustice Scalia's question seem to me to define disabilityin a vacuum. She is disabled -- she isn't disabledbecause she can do a job. Suppose she can be -- she be --she can deliver ice. That job doesn't exist anymoreeither. Suppose she could be a court jester. Disabilityhas --QUESTION: You're the one that -- that is tyingdisability to employment, not -- not Justice Ginsburg andI. And -- and yet, you keep saying that -- thatunemployment insurance is a red herring. You're the onethat keeps bringing it in. You -- you say we can't tellwhether the person is disabled unless the person can get ajob, but that's not the statutory requirement for disability.MR. ALTER: Your Honor, I am not saying that aperson is disabled unless they can go get a job. What I'msaying is that disability means that a medical impairmentprevents you from adjusting to work which exists in thenational economy.QUESTION: And they are saying, to take yourexample, if you're a former iceman and you're still strongenough to deliver ice, you're probably able to do otherjobs. What is unreasonable about that, even if there's noice delivery anymore? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY MR. ALTER: Because at step five, when thecommissioner says that you cannot adjust to other jobs, Itake them at their word. Statistically, according to thecommissioner's sequential evaluation, according to thecommissioner's vocational rules, there will not be anability to adjust to any other job which exists in thenational economy.QUESTION: And -- and at the point at which youget to step five, you've already found that the personcan't deliver ice anymore. So there has already been afinding of some disability to some degree irrespective ofthe capacity to go to a nonexistent job. I mean, the --the proxy determination has already been made before youget to step five. Isn't that right?MR. ALTER: That is correct, Your Honor. QUESTION: That's what step four is there for.MR. ALTER: That -- that is correct, Your Honor,but we keep getting back to that proxy, that word proxy. Well, even if your job doesn't exist, it's a proxy foryour ability to do other jobs. But what other jobs?QUESTION: Well, if you're an -- first of all, Idon't know why it doesn't exist. We have elevatoroperators in this building.MR. ALTER: Yes, Your Honor. I gave her mycard. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY QUESTION: All right. So -- so, I mean --(Laughter.) QUESTION: It points out a certain unrealism. Aperson who works in an elevator is a pleasant person, andthey sit down for some of the day and they're up --standing up for some of the day. And they have to seethat people get on and off properly. It requires a degreeof intelligence. It requires a degree of personality. Itrequires a certain degree of skill. And so there -- youwould have thought there would have been a lot of otherjobs like that in the economy. And, I mean, even if therearen't too many elevator operators, there are some.I mean, I'm trying to point out the realism thatthey say exists behind their -- their assumption there. And it's pretty hard. We're talking about -- it's reallyhard to find an example that fits the category you want tosay this is in. MR. ALTER: Your Honor's question about theelevator operator is a -- a serious one because anelevator operator we have in this Court pushes buttons. Yes, there's personality involved, but I -- I don't thinkthat one of these individuals would be denied this job ifshe didn't have a sterling or -- or a wonderfulpersonality. She pushes buttons. That's not what myclient did. My client operated an elevator. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY The reason we have elevator operators in thisbuilding, I'm assuming, is to add to the majesty of thebuilding, for security purposes so I don't wander up anddown the halls where I'm not supposed to go. There areelevator operators in luxury buildings which really act assecurity or helping people with parcels.This person pushes a button, and she's here fora reason, which really has nothing to do with what myclient was doing. She was opening a gate and opening adoor, et cetera, and pushing the actual buttons, andoperating -- well, you've -- everyone has seen an elevatoroperator from the old days. The point is -- the point is that all we want todo is show -- an opportunity to show what every SSI claimant can show. I believe it was Justice O'Connor who-- who asked is there a difference between the regulationsin title II and title XVI, and my colleagues saidcorrectly, no, there aren't.How about this? How about Pauline Thomas neverworked a day in her life? She was on welfare her wholelife. She doesn't have a step four. We treat peopleunder this construction who have worked, as Pauline Thomasdoes -- and I promised her I would say this, so I'm goingto say it -- for -and-a-half years, quarters ofcoverage. And she paid in all that time, sweeping and th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY cleaning, and mopping bathrooms in a nursing home, and hada heart attack and went back to work. We don't treat her,under this construction, as well as we treat a person whonever worked a day in her life because then sheautomatically goes to step five where she's disabled. That's the first prong. The second thing -- I don't know if the Courthas an actual transcript, but how do we treat this persondifferently? Pauline Thomas will get -- this controversyis about $ a month in disability benefits after -and-a-half years. If she had not worked a day in her life --QUESTION: Mr. Alter, can we go back to onething that you said I don't think was quite right? Yousaid all we want is an opportunity to show. That's notso. If you get to step five, you win, and the Governmenthas conceded that. You don't have to show anything. Soyou're looking for -- you say if -- step four, if sheprevails on that, that is the end of the inquiry. Youwill not -- it's not incumbent on you to show anything.MR. ALTER: In this particular case, if we getto step five, we will win. But what we want to show isnot -- obviously, Ms. Thomas wants the benefits and I wantto win the case. But what we would be showing is thatpast work is not a proxy for another kind of work if thepast work doesn't exist because we want to be able to show th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY -- it's what we already know -- that the commissioner saysthat there is no ability to adjust to another job. Here,if her job doesn't exist, she will have to adjust toanother job whether we call it her past job or not.What I want to --QUESTION: She did work at this job for -- well, years, did she not?MR. ALTER: Correct.QUESTION: Because she -- at one point in yourbrief, you said that she had been an elevator operator. At page , you said for a few months. That was wrong.MR. ALTER: A few years, Your Honor. I'm -- mymistake.As I was saying, if she went and applied for SSI in New Jersey, she would get $. as we sit here rightnow. So the difference between the years of work andno work is, number one, she has a better chance, becauseshe doesn't have to go through step four; and number two,she gets another $. That construction leads to adisengagement between the worker who's paying the freightso that the commissioner can have their convenience andtheir construction and the actual program. The programmust reflect reality. Disability is a word, but it's aconcept that comes after the commissioner has put in placea sequential evaluation. And that sequential evaluation th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY is based on the realities of the workplace. It has alwaysbeen.As a matter of fact, may I point one thing out-- two things actually. Number one, the commissionerdoesn't call it past work. The statute calls it previouswork. The commissioner calls it past relevant work. Whatis more irrelevant than a job that doesn't exist? Numberone. Number two, the commissioner says that there areno vocational considerations at step four. We don't careabout whether the job exists or not. But that's not thecase because the commissioner's own ruling states for afact that if you can't do your past job as you performedit, we can still deny you benefits at step four by saying that we -- you can do your past job as it's performed inthe national economy. That's a vocational consideration. I never performed that job that way. My job is muchharder. Yes, but when we look into the dictionary ofoccupational titles, we find your job and many jobs aredone in a lighter version. You can do that job. But Inever did it before. Vocational considerations.SSI claimants have more rights and make the samemoney as disability claimants. There's something wrongwith that in terms of public policy. QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. Alter. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY MR. ALTER: Thank you. QUESTION: Mr. Lamken, you have minutesremaining. REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF JEFFREY A. LAMKENON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERMR. LAMKEN: Thank you. First, I wanted to point out that step four infact is a measure of severity. The question is how severedoes the impairment have to be, and the statute tells youexactly how far -- how severe it has to be. It has to beso severe that the claimant is unable to do his previouswork. So the step four inquiry of previous work is ameasure of severity, and the commissioner has consistentlyused that measure of severity to determine whether the individual is functioning at a level that is consistentwith work generally. Second, in terms of the deference to which thecommissioner's construction is entitled, this has been thecommissioner's current construction from the outset of theprogram, both from before this -- the particularprovisions we've been discussing were adopted in andafter. We believe that they're clearly reflected in thecommissioner's regulations from , and any -- anyambiguity in those regulations was cleared up in withrespect -- by the issuance of SSR -. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY The commissioner's current regulations, whichbecame effective September th, now make it abundantlyclear and explain in absolutely certain terms that thecommissioner does not consider whether or not the previouswork exists in significant numbers in the nationaleconomy. Because that is the result of a rulemaking,because it is clearly the commissioner's well-consideredand longstanding interpretation of the statute, it isentitled to deference.QUESTION: Those regulations were subject tonotice and comment rulemaking? MR. LAMKEN: Yes. In fact, there was a very --there was a lengthy comment period, and then they wentthrough the entire process and were issued quite a few years actually after the comment period was completed. But yes, those were not -- notice and comment rulemaking,Justice Ginsburg.In fact, the clarification came in in responseto a public comment that particular issue wasn't -- wasgermane to the rulemaking, but it wasn't one thecommissioner had initially planned to address. But acommenter said, please clarify that in fact you doconsider whether previous work exists in the nationaleconomy. And the commissioner said, no, no, you've got itwrong. We do not consider it. Our longstanding view has th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY always been we do not consider whether previous work exitsin substantial numbers in the national economy.QUESTION: Mr. Lamken --MR. LAMKEN: Yes. QUESTION: -- could you clarify something? Iasked this of -- of Mr. Alter, and I -- I didn't quiteunderstand his -- his answer. Do you understand therespondent's position in this case to be anything otherthan saying that the statute means it could be abbreviatedto read this way, that he is unable, considering his age,education, and work experience, to engage in any kind ofsubstantial, gainful work which subsists in the nationaleconomy? MR. LAMKEN: I -- the respondent's position does have the effect of completing the two separate inquiries.QUESTION: Well, eliminating the first entirely,does it not eliminate the first entirely?MR. LAMKEN: The one thing that -- that itwouldn't take into account is that in the first inquiry,the commissioner does not take into -- in the previouswork inquiry, the commissioner does not take into accountage, education, and work experience. And your formulationwould make age, education, and work experience relevant toall work, previous work and past work. However, webelieve that if Congress had intended -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY QUESTION: Well, but -- but if he was doing hisprevious work, it is impossible to find that consideringhis age, education, and work experience, he couldn't doit. I mean, it's --MR. LAMKEN: I -- I think that's preciselyright. It makes it -- as a --QUESTION: It's an impossibility anyway.MR. LAMKEN: Right. As a structural matter, itwould make it relevant, but in fact it would be rarely, ifever, a factor the commissioner would use in terms ofdenying disability benefits. So it does definitely havethe effect of taking what Congress set out as two separateconditions precedent and merging them to a degree whichCongress probably did not intend.Finally, for years in adjudicating more than million claims -- and that includes approximately, step four, that is, previous work denials a year. That's denials a day for every day of every year --the commissioner has consistently applied thisconstruction. That construction has functioned wellthroughout all these years. Accordingly, we ask the Courtto reverse the judgment of the court of appeals and toreinstate the commissioner's construction.QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. Lamken.The case is submitted. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY (Whereupon, at : a.m., the case in theabove-entitled matter was submitted.) th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY 