 IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES- - - - - - - - - - - - - -XBUCK DOE, ET AL., Petitioner ::v. : No. -ELAINE L.CHAO, SECRETARY :OF LABOR :- - - - - - - - - - - - - -XWashington, D.C.Wednesday, December , The above-entitled matter came on for oralargument before the Supreme Court of the United States at: a.m.APPEARANCES:JACK W. CAMPBELL, IV, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf ofthe Petitioner.MALCOLM L. STEWART, ESQ., Assistant Solicitor General, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on behalf ofthe Respondent. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. C O N T E N T SORAL ARGUMENT OF JACK W. CAMPBELL, IV, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioner MALCOLM L. STEWART, ESQ.On behalf of the Respondent REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OFJACK W. CAMPBELL, IV, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioner PAGE th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. P R O C E E D I N G S(: a.m.)CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: We'll hear argumentnext in No. -, Buck Doe v. Elaine Chao.Mr. Campbell.ORAL ARGUMENT OF JACK W. CAMPBELL, IVON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERMR. CAMPBELL: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court:In this case, it is undisputed that petitionerBuck Doe suffered an adverse effect, the emotionaldistress typical of a privacy invasion caused by theDepartment of Labor's intentional and willful violation ofthe Privacy Act. The only question is whether under these circumstances, petitioner is entitled to recover thePrivacy Act's modest $, statutory damages remedy.QUESTION: Before we go further, could you helpme out on one thing? You spoke of the modest $,recovery. The argument is made on the other side that, infact, it would be $, for every publication in thiscase, for example, for every caption of a - of - of anorder that went out, to everyone to whom that order wassent, so that it would not be $,, it would be many,many thousands. Is that the proper construction of thestatute? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. MR. CAMPBELL: The answer to that is no, JusticeSouter, and let me answer that in at least two ways. First of all, the District of Columbia Circuit has alreadyheld that the number of - that the $, is key to eachindividual and not to the number of disclosures. Forexample, in the Tomasello case in the D.C. Circuit, therewas a simultaneous disclosure of information about asingle individual to some , recipients. That courtheld -QUESTION: Okay.MR. CAMPBELL: - and I think correctly, that thatwould be considered one disclosure under the act and,thus, the individual would be entitled to only a single$, recovery.QUESTION: What if - what if there had been aninitial disclosure and he had protested it? He said,you're violating the statute when you do this and they didit again. Would that be a separate offense?MR. CAMPBELL: That's a closer question - it -because then you - you've got the - the temporalseparation that did not exist in the Tomasello case.QUESTION: Yeah, but you'd have temporalseparation if there were pleadings over a period of months.MR. CAMPBELL: But - th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. QUESTION: And I take it in that case you'resaying, no, there would still just be a - a - a oneviolation and - and the maximum recovery, at least underthis provision, would be ,.MR. CAMPBELL: I - I - I think that's right,Justice Souter, and I want to make clear too that for eachof those disclosures you're describing, there would haveto be an adverse effect described and - and a causationelement met in each of those in any case before you evengot to the question.QUESTION: But suppose the IRS -QUESTION: But that's so easy to establish, asshown here. I mean, it bothers me that somebody elseknows my Social Security number. You don't think that's arealistic reason for not assuming application of thestatute, do you?MR. CAMPBELL: I - if I understand your question,Justice O'Connor, the answer is, yes, there is a real harmsuffered here, and adverse effect is not a meaninglessstandard. And in this case, you don't just have asituation in which Buck Doe - it's obviously a pseudonym -just alleges, I was harmed. This is a case in which hesubmitted an affidavit, and more importantly, testified inopen court as to the severity and veracity of hisemotional - th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. QUESTION: Well, but wouldn't -MR. CAMPBELL: - and was cross-examined.QUESTION: - wouldn't every person who wanted tomake such a claim make similar allegations? Is a classaction a reasonable possibility in a case like this?MR. CAMPBELL: Let me answer both parts of yourquestion. As to the first part, I - I don't think we canpresume that plaintiffs are going to make up an adverseeffect. They are certainly under the obligations totestify truthfully, and in this case, the Government hadevery opportunity that - to - and did cross-examine Mr.Doe as to the veracity of his adverse effect. Themagistrate found as a matter of fact he did suffer anadverse effect, the district court adopted it and the Government never appealed that finding, so whateverarguments they have at this point are gone.Second part of your question, class actions. That's certainly the parade of horribles that theGovernment is trotting out here, and I think perhaps,Justice Souter, may go more - more directly to yourquestion as well. The answer is no. Even if anindividual who has suffered an adverse effect caused by anintentional or willful violation of the act is entitled toa statutory damages award without being required toquantify actual damages. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. There are still at least two individualizedissues that will exist in every case. One is the pleadingand proof of the adverse effect, which necessarily mayvary among different plaintiffs. Second is the causation,and particularly in the causation question, JusticeO'Connor, this is not a - a standard that - thatplaintiffs lightly leap over.In fact, there are a number of cases, one ofwhich is the Oroquoia decision of the First Circuit, whichwas handed down while this petition was pending, notedthat in cases where the - the adverse effect alleged is a- an emotional distress-type problem, you may well runinto causation problems. There could be any number ofother stressors in this person's life.QUESTION: Let's assume that somebody wrongfullyand intentionally releases Social Security numbers, youknow, just - just a whole bunch of Social Security numbersof their - their entire list. They sell their - theirlist to somebody. Why wouldn't that be a perfectly validclass action? Every one of them has had the adverseeffect of having his Social Security number out there, andevery one of them has this same adverse effect, which isthe, I don't know, the trauma of knowing that - that your- your Social Security number is floating out there whereanybody can use it. Why wouldn't that be a perfectly good th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. class action?MR. CAMPBELL: Well, I - I think that the exampleyou give, the problem remains, particularly one ofcausation. Some folks may not have an adverse effect,they may not be concerned, I think, particularly if you'redescribing a case in which it's only the number that'sreleased but the number's not linked to a name. I thinkin those cases you might have difficulty.QUESTION: Those numbers are - are linked tonames.MR. CAMPBELL: I'd still go back to the - there'sa causation problem. If - if you're going to talk - thatis an individualized issue. Now, I -QUESTION: May I ask, with respect to that, you brought this case. I mean, you tried to get it certifiedas a class action and you were unsuccessful. So I - Ihear you telling this Court, we were way off-base inattempting to bring this as a class action because theadverse effect is different for each person. So you'regiving up on your first loss. I mean, there are othercircuits that might say, yeah, why not class action?MR. CAMPBELL: I don't - I don't - I don'tcontend that there aren't arguments to be made. What I amstating here is that there are some very strong -QUESTION: But you say you lost fair and square, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. and now you've seen the error of your ways?MR. CAMPBELL: Well, we lost fair and square andI - and I want to point out too, I want to give anotherexample of a case, and it's one of the cases that theGovernment cites in its brief as the example of - of this- this problem, and that's the Schmidt case that ispending in the Western District of Wisconsin, whichinvolves a putative class action against the VeteransAdministration. In that case, the Western District ofWisconsin held, and this has been since cert was grantedin this case, held that, if you prove an adverse effectcaused by an intentional, willful violation of the act,you are entitled to statutory damages of $,. Nonetheless, that district court refused to certify a class on precisely the grounds that I am describing to youtoday.So is it conceivable there could be a classaction in a case? Yes, it's conceivable, and I do -QUESTION: But even if they're not class actions,I have, I think, the same problem people have expressed. In Massachusetts, we put our Social Security number on ourdriver's license. I have it right in my pocket. I showit million times a day, or however many. So supposethat, you know, the IRS releases - California wants to dothe same thing. They have million drivers, and the IRS th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. sends them a list so they can check it out, or the SocialSecurity Administration does that and, my God, there's million lawsuits, $, each, that's only billion. Suppose they do it nationwide. There's billion, andthat's only Social Security numbers. All you have to dois read through these pages of fine print of therequirements of the Privacy Act, certain days have to bemet, certain deadlines, and it's very easy to imaginebankruptcy in the Federal Treasury.All right. So, I mean, you know, trillions,it's easy to see that. I can make up hypotheticals, whichI'll spare you, but you see where I'm going, because whatI want is that is the horrible. And when I read thehorrible, I think, my God, they're right. All right. Now, you tell me why they're not.MR. CAMPBELL: In the hypothetical that you'reproposing, Justice Breyer, I think there are severalanswers.QUESTION: And just make up, you know, it's easyfor both of us to make up a lot.MR. CAMPBELL: Sure.QUESTION: I want to know what are theprotections if you win against generating millions andmillions of lawsuits with billions of dollars.MR. CAMPBELL: In - in the hypotheticals that th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. you've described, if I could take those on their termsfirst. It's very likely that one of the exceptions to thePrivacy Act disclosure is going to apply usual - if it'sthe case that - that this is a working relationshipbetween the Federal Government and various stategovernments and the like, that may well fall within theusual use.There are a number of these exceptions listed,so certainly you have to look to those first. Have to go- go back to - this would have to be intentionallywrongful conduct by the Government -QUESTION: Well, yeah, I can't imagine anygovernment agency that takes place that isn't intentional. You always have people intending to do what they do in the Government.MR. CAMPBELL: Well -QUESTION: Nobody released these - nobody -nobody puts anything on a piece of paper, releases it,isn't intentional. MR. CAMPBELL: Certainly the - the intent torelease the - the information would be correct, but that'snot the same as to say there was an intent to violate thePrivacy Act.QUESTION: Ah, in other words, in order torecover - now, that's an important point to me - in order th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. to recover, the plaintiff has to show that the governmentindividuals or the agency not only intended to do what didviolate the act, but they intended that what they didwould violate the Act. They knew about the - that'swillful, it's like they knew about the legal obligationand they intentionally violated it.MR. CAMPBELL: That's correct, Justice -QUESTION: Well, then, how did you ever win thisone?strong -QUESTION: That's - that's - that's a veryQUESTION: Yeah, very strong.QUESTION: - instruction. Ordinary - ignoranceof the law is - is no defense, and there are all sorts of statutes that use the word willful, which simply meansthat you intended to do the act that you did, not that youknew it violated the law.MR. CAMPBELL: Well, in - in this case - I - theconsistent constructions of - of the Privacy Act is it's -it's greater than gross negligence. It - it necessarilyencompasses more than just I intended to do something. It's that I - I willfully blind to my obligations in the -QUESTION: Well, how about this case? How - howwas that shown in this case? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. MR. CAMPBELL: In pages - if I could point theCourt to pages - bear with me for one moment - pages - -QUESTION: This was a - this was a distributionby administrative law judges -MR. CAMPBELL: That's correct.QUESTION: - of hearing notices and decisions?MR. CAMPBELL: That - among other things. Theanswer is yes, Justice O'Connor. On pages A to A ofthe petitioner's appendix, there is the description of themagistrate judge's finding that there was a willfulviolation of the Privacy Act here and that there was a -there was no attempt even - no even attempt to comply withthe act's requirements, and I - I would point -QUESTION: But to say there's no intent to complyisn't the same thing as saying that you knew you wereviolating the act when you acted.MR. CAMPBELL: Well, let me amend my answer inthis way, Mr. Chief Justice. A willful ignorance - awillful ignoring of the act's requirements would qualifyas a willful - and I - I want to -QUESTION: Well, how can you - how can youwillfully ignore an act's requirements?MR. CAMPBELL: Well, the Department of Labor waswell aware of what the Privacy Act's requirements were and th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. made no attempt to get the administrative law judges tocomply, and - and I want to go back here this - to one ofthe answers I gave with respect to your adverse effectquestions. This issue was decided by the magistratejudge, adopted by the district court, and this was neverappealed by the Federal Government.QUESTION: Well, but our concern -QUESTION: We're concerned here, Justice Breyerand I guess - what is going to happen if we rule in yourfavor? That will probably not result in any benefit forthe Government on this ground, but are we just opening acan of worms or is - by ruling in your favor?MR. CAMPBELL: The answer is no, and - andcertainly I acknowledge, Mr. Chief Justice, and Justice Souter and Justice Breyer, that in future cases theremight well be a lot more time spent litigating the issuesof whether there was an adverse - truly an adverse effectand whether - and - and whether the - the violation wastruly intentional and willful. But I want to -QUESTION: Okay, but can - can we just go back tothat for a second?MR. CAMPBELL: Sure.QUESTION: Because we've been concentrating onwillful, and you say, well, willful requires a very highstandard. As - as you just indicated in your answers, the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. statute doesn't require willful. It requires intentionalor willful.MR. CAMPBELL: Or willful.QUESTION: And it would be even more remarkableto construe the - the term intentional as requiringconscious disregard of - of a known statutory obligation.MR. CAMPBELL: Let - let me answer this way inresponse, and maybe it will - will help ease the concerns. For years, the interpretation of the Privacy Act thatpetitioner offers today has been the law of the land, andin that -QUESTION: Do you have a case that saysintentional standing alone must be construed to includethis conscious disregard of a - of a known legal provision?MR. CAMPBELL: I can't cite a specific case forthat proposition, Justice Souter, but I again go back towe were talking about intentional or willful, it's a highburden under any concept of what intentional or willfulwill be, and for years, for years, from to, at theearliest , when the Sixth Circuit decided the Renocase, the interpretation that I am offering this Court isthe one that the courts of appeals had unanimouslyadopted, and never in those years had the kind ofparade of horribles that the Government posits in this th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. case materialize.Indeed, if anything, if you look - there is a -a reporter that lists every single case decided under thePrivacy Act since .QUESTION: But have any of those cases involveddisclosure of Social Security numbers?MR. CAMPBELL: None that I recall. That seems tobe a relatively new -QUESTION: See, this seems to me a particularkind of disclosure that might happen over and over againin a very casual way.MR. CAMPBELL: I - I submit, Justice Stevens, ifit happens in a casual way, that's not going to provideanyone with a cause of action.QUESTION: Well, pursuant to a policy such asthey had here of that's the way they use to identify -driver's license they use it on, the Holiday Inn uses itfor their social - all sorts of people use Social Securitynumber for another purpose.MR. CAMPBELL: That's true. It's certainly truethat Social Security numbers are used for other purposes. But what is clear from this statute is that Congress wasspecifically focused on concerns about Social Securitynumbers being disclosed and the adverse effects that canresult from that. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. QUESTION: That - that may be true. What'sbothering me, which may be the same thing, as JusticeStevens says, is that I might have thought that a LaborDepartment official could reasonably think, I have a listof , people here, several are named John Smith, Iwant to be sure we get the right ones so I'll put theSocial Security number as identifier. That doesn't on its- on its face seem like such an unreasonable thing tothink, even if it's wrong.And - and yet we have here a finding that notonly is it wrong, but that it's intentional and willful,and that's what brings up the problem you come to argue,and I don't know how to deal with it, because I think,well, if this statute, intentional, willful really means the tough thing that you say, well, then it'll work, thenyou're right, there won't be a horrible. But then I seethis case, which seems to me to stand for the propositionthat that tough standard isn't being applied. And then Ithink, my goodness, you're opening the door to thehorribles and - and I don't know how to do it because theother part isn't being argued. That's my honest dilemma. I put it to you.MR. CAMPBELL: I - I - I under - I wellunderstand your dilemma, Justice Breyer, and I again goback to, I don't doubt if this - if the statute is given th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. its natural reading, that the $, statutory damages isavailable to those to whom the United States shall beliable, there will be an awful lot more traction, a lotmore fighting over the adverse effect and the particularcircumstances that would rise to the level of anintentional or willful violation in the future.QUESTION: Mr. Campbell -MR. CAMPBELL: That's simply not an issue here.QUESTION: Really what - what Justice Breyer issaying is - is that this issue of willfulness or not isnot in the case and we wish it were, because the answer tothat is important. Could we talk a little bit about whatis in the case?MR. CAMPBELL: Yes, yes, Justice Scalia, thank you.QUESTION: Can - can you tell me what - I - Ireally have trouble understanding how there can be anadverse effect without actual damage. That's a verystrange line. I mean, in - in the AdministrativeProcedure Act, you talk about any person adverselyaffected or aggrieved, and that's a person who suffereddamage. It seems very strange for Congress to uselanguage that - that sets up two different categories,adverse effect on the one hand, and actual damage on theother. When - when is there an adverse effect without th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. actual damage?MR. CAMPBELL: I think there frequently can be an- an emotional harm that is not quantifiable in dollarterms -law.QUESTION: Well -MR. CAMPBELL: - and that's very common in theQUESTION: That doesn't mean that it's notactual. It just means that it's hard to quantify, butyou've had the emotional harm. Why isn't that an - whyisn't that actual - actual harm?MR. CAMPBELL: I - I want - I - I agree with youthat that is an actual harm, and I think that's one of thethings that the Government is - is trying to cloud the issue a bit in this case, and that is to equate actualdamages and actual harm. I submit they are different,that the - in - in interpreting the statute, thedeliberate use of a term adverse effect and the deliberateuse of a term actual damages, those must be givendifferent meanings.QUESTION: Well, do you agree that, or do youcontend that adverse effect include - includes emotionaldistress and that you have to show something likeemotional distress before there is an adverse effect?MR. CAMPBELL: Yes, yes indeed, Justice Kennedy, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. and that is indeed the unanimous position of the Federalcourts on that question.QUESTION: What - what do you say about theposition of the - which I understood the circuit to betaking that, on the assumption that there - there was someemotional damage, at least in the sense that the - the mansaid, I was very upset when I heard that the number wasout. Assuming that, I thought the Fourth Circuit wassaying, there is a category of harm that is generally non­compensable in the law, and we assume it ought to be non­compensable here, and that category is emotional damage,which has no physical manifestation. And the generalpolicy behind that is, we don't allow generally, tort lawdoesn't allow recovery there because it's too easy to fake.And the Fourth Circuit, I thought, was saying,you know, whether you're talking about damage or whetheryou're talking about effect, this is an effect that thelaw simply doesn't generally recognize and it shouldn't berecognized here. That's a different issue from whether itcan be quantified or not. What the circuit was saying is,you don't even get to the point of proving quantification.What - what is your response to that?MR. CAMPBELL: If that is indeed what the FourthCircuit's position is, it's squarely wrong. At common law th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. and intentional torts generally, and in privacy tortsspecifically, this type of harm is compensable in some atleast minimal way, even if it cannot be quantified, and Ithink that's why -QUESTION: What about - even if there is nophysical manifestation?MR. CAMPBELL: Even if there is no physicalmanifestation. Indeed, I submit, Justice Souter, it's -there's nothing surprising about the overall remedialscheme here, because it does track what happened at commonlaw and intentional torts and with respect to intentionalprivacy torts. In fact, the Privacy Act is more stricteven than what was required at common law. At common law,even no damage at all, no - I'm sorry - I don't - I don't want to get back into the confusion over the terms. Evenif there was no harm at all, there would be still be someat least minimal award, recognizing the invasion.QUESTION: Sure, because privacy -MR. CAMPBELL: Here you have to put -QUESTION: - I mean, in your - I understand yourprivacy argument, but that's because the invasion ofprivacy or the infringement of privacy is regarded simplyas - as injury per se, and - and I thought the circuit wassaying, that's not what we're dealing with here. Butyou're saying, what, privacy is privacy and - and - th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. MR. CAMPBELL: Well, I - I want to -QUESTION: But it's - but if that is so, then letme just get to my question. If that is so, why did thestatute go into speaking of actual damage at all? Whydidn't the statute simply say, if they invade the privacyby publishing something they shouldn't publish, you get atleast $, regardless. But that's not what it said. It's keyed it to actual damage, and it said, if there'sactual damage, the person entitled to recovery for actualdamage gets at least ,, which is something quitedifferent. It does not take the position that it's a perse compensable harm.MR. CAMPBELL: Well, I - I, of course, disagreewith your characterization of what subsection (A) in fact says, but let me go back to first part of the answer. Weare talking about an adverse effect, so we are talkingabout having to prove a harm. We're not just talkingabout the ability to vindicate a privacy interest in theabstract. You can certainly do that at common law, andCongress could have written a statute that allowed you todo that under the Privacy Act. It didn't. It did atleast require that you demonstrate an adverse effect andreal harm.QUESTION: And what - can - can you - and thisgoes back to Justice Scalia's initial question, what is th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. the difference in adverse effect and actual damage?MR. CAMPBELL: The difference is the ability toquantify the harm in some dollar amount.QUESTION: Yes, but if that's - if that's thecase, I don't see why the risk of being subjected toidentity theft would be increased by the disclosure ofyour Social Security number, and if that's true, and Ithink some people could prove the risk is increased, thatwould be true of every release of every Social Securitynumber.MR. CAMPBELL: I - I - I would certainly agreethat there is a real risk of identity theft any timethere's a disclosure of a Social Security number,particularly as here when it's linked directly with the name.QUESTION: So does it not necessarily follow thatevery one of those releases causes an adverse effect?MR. CAMPBELL: I don't think it is. There couldbe - there could be people who aren't bothered by that orwho don't share that fear.QUESTION: Whether they're bothered about it ornot, they're - they have an increased risk, just if youincrease your risk of death, maybe they're not aware ofit, but it's still an adverse effect.MR. CAMPBELL: Well, I do not contend that the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. Privacy Act is a statute that - that compensates in someway for merely increased risk. I think that does go backto the adverse effect here. You do have to have some sortof harm that actualizes, and here it did actualize in hisreal emotional distress about the disclosure.QUESTION: Well, I mean, that doesn't answer it. The harm does actualize, as you say it, once the SocialSecurity number is released, the harm actualizes. You'reat greater risk than you were before. That's - that'sactual as can be.MR. CAMPBELL: I can't support thatinterpretation of the act, although candidly, it - itprobably would be a better one for plaintiffs in the - inthe run-of-the-mine case. And the reason is this: If the- if the disclosure itself is the adverse effect, whathappens is that the causation language in subsection(g)()(D) becomes superfluous, and I am being careful tothe - the text here -QUESTION: Well, it's superfluous with respect toSocial Security numbers, but the statute covers a wholerange of activities other than this particular case.MR. CAMPBELL: Absolutely, Justice Stevens, and I- I - but I'm not sure - I - I don't think the answer isthat it would be just superfluous with respect to SocialSecurity numbers. In every case, if the release of any th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. information, let's say it's a medical record, not a SocialSecurity number. If the release itself is the adverseeffect, the problem is that does not - that does not hewto the - the causation language contained in subsection(g)()(D).QUESTION: Well, the release of medicalinformation doesn't necessarily increase the risk of anyparticular harm. But this particular information doesincrease the risk of an identity theft for everybody.MR. CAMPBELL: It does increase that - it doesincrease the risk -QUESTION: It is not true if you say, well,you're taking aspirin three times a day or something likethat. So what? But this is not a so-what situation.MR. CAMPBELL: No, it's a - I agree, JusticeStevens. It does increase the risk, but - but for somepeople, that increased risk may not cause them an adverseeffect, the personal adverse effect.I would like to reserve the remainder of my timefor rebuttal, if I may.QUESTION: Very well, Mr. Campbell.Mr. Stewart, we'll hear from you.ORAL ARGUMENT OF MALCOLM L. STEWARTON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTMR. STEWART: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. please the Court:I'd like to begin by discussing the distinctionas we see it between the terms adverse effect and actualdamages. And as one of Justice Scalia's questionsindicate, the term adverse effect is not one thatoriginated in the Privacy Act. It's - it's a term of art. The general judicial review provision of theAdministrative Procedure Act grants a right of action topersons adversely affected or aggrieved, and I don't thinkit's the case that a plaintiff under the APA needs to showthat he has suffered the type of harm that wouldordinarily be compensable in damages.Because the APA excludes money damages as anavailable item of relief, the typical inquiry in - under the APA in determining whether a plaintiff has standing iswhether he is likely to suffer harm in the future, notwhether he has been harmed in the past. And if we had ahypothetical APA suit, for instance, challenging anongoing or imminent program by which the Governmentintended to release Social Security numbers, and aparticular plaintiff could show there is a likelihood thatmy own Social Security number will be released in the nearfuture, I think that would be sufficient in and of itselfto establish that that person was adversely affected oraggrieved within the meaning of the act. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. He would be suffering a - a violation of hislegal right to have information about him maintainedwithin the Government's files and he would also suffer atleast an increased risk of identity theft. That would beenough to get him into the - into court to seekprospective, injunctive, or declaratory relief. But thosecertainly wouldn't be the types of harms that wouldordinarily be compensable in damages.QUESTION: Well, but that - but that's not thequestion. It - it - the point is it's - it's not onlyenough to get him into court, which is what it is saidadverse effect does here, it is enough under the APA togive him judgment. He wins.MR. STEWART: He wins -QUESTION: It - it is enough to give - to makehis claim a valid - a valid claim.MR. STEWART: He - he wins but -QUESTION: And the reason he can't get moneydamages has nothing to do with the magic words, adverselyaffected. It has to do with simply the fact that moneydamages are not available under the APA.MR. STEWART: But -QUESTION: But he wins under the APA.MR. STEWART: But the fact that a plaintiff canwin under the APA and, in our view, can't win under the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. damages provision of the Privacy Act simply reflects whatis implicit in the APA's exclusion of money damages as anavailable item of relief, namely the view that agencyaction should ordinarily be reviewable in court, andplaintiffs who can show that they would be injured byunlawful government conduct in the future shouldordinarily be able to get a judicial order decreeing thatthat not take place. But plaintiffs are not ordinarilyentitled to receive money damages from the Government forwrongs committed against them.QUESTION: And I take it you're - you're sayinghere - and they're not here because there's a furtherrequirement of actual damage before they get money.MR. STEWART: That - that's right.QUESTION: Yeah.MR. STEWART: That the damages provisionsrestricts the availability of monetary relief to a personentitled to recovery, and the phrase, person entitled torecovery, is most naturally construed to mean someone whohas not only established a violation of law, but who hasestablished the prerequisites to an award of compensatoryrelief.QUESTION: Why - why did they put that phrase,entitled to recovery, in there in addition to actualdamages? I'll be candid with you that I - I was thinking th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. that maybe they put it in there because they anticipatedthis - this category of cases like emotional damagewithout physical manifestations is non-compensable, andthat - and that they were trying to leave open that kindof a condition.MR. STEWART: One - one hypothesis as to why thephrase may appear as it does. The phrase originated inthe Senate version of the legislation, and the Senateversion said that a plaintiff who establishes a will - anintentional or willful violation can collect actual orgeneral damages, but a person entitled to recovery shallreceive no less than $,. And so, in the context ofthat provision, the phrase, person entitled to recovery,could be a shorthand for person entitled to recover either actual or general damages.QUESTION: Well, he is entitled to recover actualdamages if he has any.QUESTION: Yeah.MR. STEWART: But that -QUESTION: And he's entitled to recover it if hedoesn't have any. He's entitled to recover it, whether hehas some or whether he doesn't have some. So I will - Idon't understand, you say the most natural meaning of aperson entitled to recovery is a person entitled torecovery who actually has actual damages. That isn't how th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. I'd normally read it. I'd - I'd read it somebody who's -who's entitled to get it if he has it.QUESTION: Well, I guess that's the issue.QUESTION: Yeah, that is the issue. So I justwant you to explain a little bit more -(Laughter.)MR. STEWART: I mean, I think - I think -QUESTION: - about why that's the most naturalreading.MR. STEWART: I mean, the more - I think the morenatural reading is that a person entitled to recovery issomeone who not only has established some of theprerequisites to an actual recovery, namely a compensatoryaward, but who has established all of them. And if theonly compensatory relief available is actual damages, thena person who hasn't established actual damages is notentitled to recovery.But even if a plausible argument could be madethe other way, then the canon of construction that waiversof sovereign immunity are to be construed narrowly wouldcompel the Court to read it in - in the narrow way.QUESTION: Well, plus - plus the canon that -that you don't give words a meaning that renders themtotally superfluous.MR. STEWART: That - that's - th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. QUESTION: And if it means what Justice Breyersuggests, you can just leave out the words, a personentitled to recovery.MR. STEWART: Or - or -QUESTION: Just read it, but in no case shall hereceive less than the sum of ,, of $,.MR. STEWART: That's correct. If - if Congresshad intended that any plaintiff who established an adverseeffect from a willful or intentional violation wouldautomatically receive at least $,, it could have usedthe word person or individual or complainant, which was -which were the words that Congress used elsewhere in thePrivacy Act to describe the individual whose rights hadarguably been violated.QUESTION: Or just - just drop entitled torecovery.sum of -MR. STEWART: Exactly.QUESTION: Shall a person receive less than theMR. STEWART: And the other point I would - wewould make in following up on one of Justice -QUESTION: Mr. Stewart, if - and before going tothe words of the statute, this - there are any number ofstatutes that have actual damages and it can say, or thestatutory damages, and some of them have this formula, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. actual damages and person entitled to recover, and thenthere's shades in between. Do you - do you really thinkthat Congress, by using those different formulas, meant adifferent result in what would seem to be cases that don't- are not sensibly distinguished?MR. STEWART: I mean, I think - I think we haveto infer that Congress or presume that Congress meantsomething by the choice of words that it used. And thephrase entitled to recovery is -QUESTION: A benign fiction, right?MR. STEWART: A benign fiction, that's right. And I think it is also the case that the phrase, personentitled to recovery, is used very rarely in the UnitedStates Code. There are a number of provisions along the lines of actual damages or $,, whichever is greater,references to statutory damages or liquidated damages. But the phrase, person entitled to recovery, is very rareand we would presume that Congress intended somethingspecific -QUESTION: All right. I - I would - rather thando the presumption of what they intended deduced fromcanons, et cetera. You assume that it is ambiguous. Youcertainly got me there. I'm - I see it's ambiguous. AndI also believe that Congress did not want to bankrupt theTreasury, destroying Medicare, Social Security, and every th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. other programs we give $ trillion in damages to peoplewho have the social - I - I - you've got me there.Now, how do - what they - what your opponentssay is that is a made-up problem. It doesn't - it isn'tgoing to happen, and the reason it isn't going to happenis because these words, intentional or willful, are notused, the word intentional, as it normally is. It's usedin a very special way so that they have to almost - well,you've - now, you've - I'm cross-referencing our earlierargument and I'm at a dilemma here because it's notargued, I don't know how to deal with it, but it seemsrelevant to the underlying question that is moving meabout what Congress intended.MR. STEWART: The petitioner is correct that the phrase intentional or willful has been construed by thelower courts essentially as a term of art, and theprevailing test in the lower courts is whether the agencyexhibited flagrant disregard for -QUESTION: Oh, I'm sorry. The lower court thingthat we've looked up uses an or about that, and one of theparts of the or is without grounds for believing theaction to be lawful, which means that part of the test,that if we have an ALJ, or we have people in the agency,just never think about it, as they might not in this case,that that cover - is covered by intentional or lawful. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. And that's one of the problems I'm having, because itmakes me think that that word intentional is a prettycomplicated issue, which isn't argued. It seems to bevery important, and I don't know what to do.MR. STEWART: I - I think, with respect to the -the language from the court of appeals' opinion that youquoted, the without grounds to believe that -QUESTION: I have three of them like that.MR. STEWART: Right. I - I think what the courtsare getting at is something at least akin to the standardthat would prevail in a Bivens action, where an individualFederal officer was sued, where the question would be,could a reasonable officer in this person's position havebelieved that what he was doing was legal? Probably the courts have applied it in a - in a manner that's slightlymore deferential to the Government.In - in - it doesn't mean, however, that theGovernment has to have been shown either to haveintentionally violated the law or to have intentionallysought to bring about harm to the plaintiff. QUESTION: Do we have to decide that in thiscase?MR. STEWART: No, no, I don't think you need todecide that.QUESTION: I'd like a lot more argument on it th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. before I decide that question.MR. STEWART: That - that's correct. QUESTION: Why -QUESTION: And some briefing on it.MR. STEWART: As the case comes to this Court,both parties are in agreement, or neither party conteststhe proposition that an intentional or willful violationwas established.QUESTION: Mr. Stewart, what has happened in the-some years that this has been in effect concerning theamount of recoveries against the Government?MR. STEWART: I - I would candidly acknowledge wehave not had a problem with enormous recoveries againstthe Government up to this point.QUESTION: What happened in the lawsuit yourefer to on mailing of IRS farm - form s, that had aSocial Security number and the name.MR. STEWART: That - that was -QUESTION: What happened to that case?MR. STEWART: That was ultimately dismissed onthe ground that the Social Security numbers were notrecords, which is contrary to the general course of thelaw, which is that Social Security numbers would be - berecords. I - I want to be careful about this because weare not arguing that exorbitant liability would inevitably th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. follow from a loss in this case. What we are saying is,if we lose this issue and if the word adverse effect isgiven the same meaning in the Privacy Act that it has inthe APA, the Government would be subject to enormouspotential liability.To take an example, following up on one ofJustice Breyer's questions, as - as you pointed out, thePrivacy Act is not limited to a prohibition on unlawfuldisclosures. It contains a range of other provisions thatcould be best be described as technical or evenbureaucratic. One, for instance, is that when theGovernment collects information from private individuals,it has to identify, among other things, the source ofauthority, either a U.S. Code provision or an executive order that authorizes the information to be collected. And if an agency circulated , forms andleft off the U.S. Code cite, I think, under ordinary APAstandards, any person who returned information on thatform would be - would suffer an adverse effect, because hewould have been deprived of -QUESTION: Yeah, but that won't hurt you if - if,in fact, to show liability here, you have to show that theagency officials who made up that form knew - let's makeit really tough - knew that leaving it off was command -putting it on was commanded by the act and they say, ha ha th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. ha, I know it's commanded by the act, but I'm not going todo it. MR. STEWART: I mean -QUESTION: Now, that'll be pretty rare and the -MR. STEWART: It would be rare.QUESTION: So the -MR. STEWART: Well, you could - you could imaginea situation, and we wouldn't condone this - this conduct,but you can imagine a situation in which an agencyofficial gets back the , forms from the printer andsays, oh my gosh, the U.S. Code cite was left off, butthen decides, I know we're supposed to do this, but I'mnot going to reprint , forms for something likethat, let's circulate them. We don't condone thatbehavior. It would be a violation of law, but it's hardto imagine that Congress would have intended thateverybody who fills out information on those forms wouldthen be entitled to $,.QUESTION: Just to try to get this issue out ofthe case, are you content to have us decide this case on -on the assumption, just for the sake of argument butwithout ruling, that - that the act requires willfulnessin the - in the most extreme sense that Justice Breyerdescribes? Are you willing to have us decide the case onthat assumption? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. MR. STEWART: Yes.QUESTION: You're willing to have us decide whatwas not - what it was over, that there is an adverseeffect? In fact, the - the Government didn't disputethat, didn't dispute adverse effect, did it?MR. STEWART: Not - not as to Buck Doe. The -the magistrate judge held that each of the plaintiffs hadestablished an adverse effect simply by release of theSocial Security numbers, and the district court didn'texpressly endorse that view, but didn't reject it either.QUESTION: Is it your - is it your argument - andI'm glad we're back to the statute - that in order todetermine in this case, in this case, whether there was acause of action, you had to read beyond the adverse effect clause and go down to for - or before - and decide alsowhether there was actual damages, before there was a causeof action?MR. STEWART: You - you wouldn't have to decidewhether there was proof of actual damages, but yes, Ithink if it was apparent on the complaint that there wasan adverse effect but no possibility of proving actualdamages, then the suit shouldn't be - shouldn't goforward, but -QUESTION: That - that's an - that's an unusualway to write the statute. It's unusual to - to write the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. statute in a way where I don't know if I have a cause ofaction until I get down to where the damages are defined.MR. STEWART: I - I agree, but I think it wouldbe -QUESTION: Usually I would say that any personinjured is the way we would expect this statute to havebeen written.MR. STEWART: I agree, and it may be that to -Congress anticipated that questions concerning damageswould be resolved at the end of the day, and there wouldobviously be a lot of cases in which a plaintiff wouldallege damages at the outset, and therefore, would have acause of action, but if he failed to prove damages in the- the course of the trial, he wouldn't be entitled to the $,, even if he proved that he suffered an adverseeffect from a willful or intentional violation.QUESTION: But Mr. Stewart, I - I take it thateven - even if there was no indication of actual damage,the - by - by pleading the violation of the statute, hewould at least have pleaded enough to entitle him to - toask for a - to ask for equitable relief.MR. STEWART: We would say that equitable reliefis not, in this context, is not specifically authorized bythe Privacy Act. But we would say that equitable reliefwould be available under the APA, and the allegation would th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. be that the -QUESTION: Okay.MR. STEWART: - agency's action was not inaccordance with law -QUESTION: I - I see.MR. STEWART: - because it violated the PrivacyAct.QUESTION: May -MR. STEWART: So - so - and indeed, this suit atthe outset included a request for injunctive reliefagainst further disclosures, and the Government settledthat part of the case with lightning speed. There was -the - the plaintiff did obtain a judicial order directingthe Government not to continue with its practice. QUESTION: So indeed there's - there - there'snothing bizarre about letting him get into court just onthe basis of - of an adverse effect, because he can win incourt on the basis of an adverse effect, not by reason ofthis act alone, but by reason of the obligations underthis Act plus the APA.MR. STEWART: That's correct.QUESTION: Right.QUESTION: May I - may I go to another issue? Imean, one of things that's bothering us is several issuesthat seem crucial, which we're just having to make th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. assumptions about here, and depending on the assumptions,the scope of liability may - may be enormous.Here's the one that is bothering me. The - theGovernment is not contesting here that in fact there -there was some kind of actual damage, even though it wasnot quantified.MR. STEWART: No, I think we are contesting that.QUESTION: Well, I - but - but you're notcontesting the fact - let me put it - I - I misspoke -you're not contesting the fact that if he showed emotionaldamage and emotional damage alone, no physical effects,that that would be enough for recovery if - if a fact-finder said, well, I think the emotional damage is worth$ -MR. STEWART: No, no. We - we are contestingthat and -QUESTION: You are contesting that?MR. STEWART: It hasn't really been -QUESTION: Are - may - may I ask you just afurther question, then you can tell me which - whateveryou want. Are you contesting as a matter of law thesufficiency of this plaintiff's testimony to at least getto the fact-finder on whether there was actual damage? Hetestified - I forget his exact words - but he testified,you know, I was so upset when I heard that they had th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. released my Social Security number, I just didn't knowwhat to do or what to say, something like that. Are youcontesting the sufficiency of that evidence to put anissue of actual damage to the fact-finder?MR. STEWART: Yes, and let me backtrack for asecond to say that the Fourth Circuit decided that Mr. Doehad not proved actual damages, and the petitioner did notseek this Court's review of that holding, so -QUESTION: But they said he didn't prove actualdamages because there was no physical effect.MR. STEWART: That - that's right. There was -QUESTION: They didn't say that, as a matter oflaw, if you don't have the emotional physical effect rule,he wouldn't have had enough to - to get to the fact-finder an actual damage.MR. STEWART: That - that's correct. My - myonly point was, the reason we haven't briefed the questionof whether there were in fact actual damages is that ourunderstanding is that, because petitioner didn't seek thisCourt's review of that aspect of the - the court ofappeals' holding, as the case comes to the Court, we'reassuming that there were no actual damages.QUESTION: And you didn't - you didn't cross?MR. STEWART: But - but to answer your - yourquestion about what the Government's position on the law th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. is, our - our first argument is that in the context ofthis specific statute, the phrase actual damages refersonly to pecuniary harm, and we've cited in a footnote aconflict among the circuits with respect to that question,and that - that isn't presented by this case.QUESTION: Okay.MR. STEWART: But we would -QUESTION: Mr. Stewart, may I ask you a questionwith respect to that? Suppose this Doe said, I'm veryconcerned about the impact of this on my credit rating, soI'm going to spend $ to a credit - credit reportingcompany to find out whether there's been any theft of myidentity, $. Would there then be a claim under thisstatute for actual damages?MR. STEWART: I mean, there - there would be aquestion of whether that was - whether there wascausation, whether that was a reasonable response to thethreat, but in theory, an expense like that could qualifyas pecuniary harm and, thus, is actual damages.QUESTION: But it made - it made me think that ifthere's ambiguity in this statute, that wouldn't have mademuch sense for Congress to write a statute like thiswhere, to meet the actual damage requirement, all you haveto do is make a $ expense.MR. STEWART: I mean, I agree that it's a th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. somewhat anomalous result that the availability of thethousand can turn on a relatively small pecuniary loss. It's - it's somewhat analogous at least to the common lawrule that punitive damages are available only to aplaintiff who's shown some level of compensatory damages,and there also a plaintiff might be able to contrive asmall loss that is compensable, and thereby make himselfeligible for punitive damages that far exceed the amountof -QUESTION: But it's not just not contrived,because now it's a formula for - for all the people whohave this kind of complaint, so I think if that's what -what the line is, then Mr. Doe, is it, all the future Mr.Does will ask to have their credit checked.MR. STEWART: I mean, we would still want to - wewould still have to know whether that was in fact areasonable response to what the Government had did - done- and what the - the threat that it posed to the - theplaintiff. And even if that kind of machination might bepossible in in one category of cases, it would still notbe possible in a lot of other categories of potential - ofPrivacy Act violations.To continue with my answer to Justice Souter'squestion, the - the second thing we would say about theemotional injury is that, even if some emotional harms th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. were compensable as actual damages under the statute, wedon't think that the particular emotional harm allegedhere would be, because a Social Security number, unlike,for instance, intimate details about a person's familylife, is not inherently private or secret or confidential. It's not the sort of information that would cause a personto say, I would be horrified to think that somebody elseknew that even if I could be sure that that person wasn'tgoing to misuse it against me.The - the reason that people are worried aboutrelease of Social Security numbers is that that releasemay lead to some further, more tangible harm, identifytheft or -QUESTION: So you're saying as a matter of law, this is just what he testified to is simply too de minimisto be considered evidence -MR. STEWART: That -QUESTION: - sufficient evidence.MR. STEWART: That's correct. And we've citedthe Metro-North case in our brief, and I think that theharm - the emotional harm that he's alleged is really -really very similar to the fear of cancer as a result ofasbestos exposure that was held not to be compensable inthe absence of some current physical impairment.So to - to - follow up on this and make our th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. position absolutely clear, we are saying that if the termadverse effect is given its usual meaning, and everyplaintiff who establishes an adverse effect from a willfulor intentional violation is entitled to $,, that thepotential financial consequences would be enormous. Now,I would say in all candor that if we lose this case, it'squite possible that the Government would argue in thelower courts that to protect the public fisc, the - thephrase adverse effect should be given a narrowerconstruction under this statute than under the APA. Butour basic point is -QUESTION: May I ask, with respect to the paradeof horribles that we're confronted with, is I - it's myunderstanding that there are several other statutes under entirely different statutes, they have the similarprovision but they're clearly worded in a way that says,if you get anything, you'll get the minimum, and - butit's the position that your opponent contends is theproper reading of that statute. There are several suchstatutes, am I -MR. STEWART: There are a lot of statutes withwording, for instance, to the effect of a plaintiff whoestablishes a violation will receive actual damages or$,, whichever is greater. Most of those don't applyto suits against the United States - th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. QUESTION: And - and -MR. STEWART: - but there are many such laws.QUESTION: And most of those would not requireproof of actual damages?MR. STEWART: That's correct. Under the plainterms of the statute, the plaintiff would get the , -QUESTION: Why in your view did Congress come upwith a different formula in this case than it has in that- in the pattern of statutes that those represent?MR. STEWART: I'm - part of it may be that mostof those statutes are not dealing with suits against theUnited States, and Congress may be more protective of thepublic fisc, and part of it is the - the legislativedebates reveal that Congress considered a variety of potential damages provisions, some of which were moregenerous than the one that was ultimately enacted, some ofthem less generous. For instance, the more generousprovisions -QUESTION: But this statute is unique, is it not?MR. STEWART: It's not quite unique. I believethere are a couple of other provisions that use thephrase, person entitled to recovery, and that phrase hasnot been authoritatively construed by this Court, so those- interpretation of those statutes would raise the samequestion this one does. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. QUESTION: But there's a number of them thatstart out with actual damages. MR. STEWART: And - and sometimes, again, thewords are to the effect of actual damages or $,,whichever is greater. And because the availability of the$, is not limited to a, quote, person entitled torecovery, unquote, the plain language of many of thosestatutes compels the conclusion that $, will beawardable regardless of actual damages.QUESTION: Now, there was an interpretation -Congress told OMB to do interpretive guides, and it did,and it - and it gave it the meaning that this plaintiffgives it. It's - it read the statute - didn't - wasn'tthat what OMB said? Wasn't that their contemporaneous -MR. STEWART: I mean, I think the more - I thinkyou're right that the more natural reading - the OMBguideline didn't address in terms the situation where aplaintiff shows no actual damages but nevertheless claimsthe thousand, but the OMB guideline did say, a person whosuffers an adverse effect from a willful or an intentionviolation shall receive a , - actual damages or$,, whichever is greater.QUESTION: It said actual damages or ,. As Iunderstood the - that original interpretation, it was thereading that the plaintiff is putting forward here and th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. your response to it in your brief seemed to be that was awrong interpretation because it didn't take account ofsovereign immunity or saving the sovereign fisc and anofficial at OMB said it was wrong and it's not - no longereffective.MR. STEWART: I mean, I think if - if plaintiffsare using the OMB interpretation to establish the pointthat intelligent people can read the statute the way thatthey did, I - I think it's validly used for that purpose. But the OMB guideline is not entitled to deference, as theCourt held in Adams Fruit, a statutory provision that isto administered solely by the courts is not one as towhich the Court will defer to administrativeinterpretations. The - the OMB -QUESTION: But didn't - didn't Congress designateOMB to - to these guides?MR. STEWART: Congress designated OMB, but it's -the particular provision that is at - specifically atissue is reprinted at page a to the appendix to theGovernment's brief. And it says, the director of theOffice of Management and Budget shall develop and, afternotice and opportunity for public comment, prescribeguidelines and regulations for the use of agencies inimplementing the provisions of this section.So the only specific directive that OMB had was th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. to instruct or direct agencies as to their substantiveobligations under the act. Now, in the course of doingthat, it was entirely appropriate for OMB to go furtherand offer its view to the agencies as to what consequenceswould follow if they breached their substantiveobligations, but that wasn't a task that was specificallyentrusted to OMB by statute, so I don't think there's anybasis for inferring that Congress -QUESTION: I see. You're - you're saying that -that it - it was meant just to tell the agencies what youhave to do to comply with the act.MR. STEWART: Exactly.QUESTION: Yeah, that - that's probably the bestreading of it.MR. STEWART: Exactly.QUESTION: Yeah.MR. STEWART: So the - the last - the last pointI wanted to make is, it might be possible, if - if we lostthis case, it might be possible to mitigate the financialconsequences to the Government by giving the term adverseeffect a narrow construction, but our - our view is, ifthe consequence of adopting plaintiff's reading of thephrase person entitled to recovery is that an establishedterm of art like adverse effect has to be construed inother than its normal manner in order to make the statute th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. make sense, there's something wrong with plaintiff'sreading.QUESTION: But why - why do you say that? Because, see, the adverse effect part governs people whodon't even want damages. I mean, it - it's to get intocourt, it's just to get into court, bring the suit, isn'tit?MR. STEWART: Right.QUESTION: So - so I would have thought that your- your reaction - I just want you to clarify this - wouldbe, if they win this case, then the reaction would be togo back and say, all right, if we're going to give $,to people who really are just feeling bad about whathappened, we've got to give them all $,, well, it's only in circumstances where the agency really didsomething quite wrong. And so you'll read thatintentional or willful requirement toughly, not - not theadverse effect part tough. I mean, why - why wouldn'tthat be the reaction?MR. STEWART: I mean, I guess if - if this - ifthis Court held that the phrase intentional or willful waslimited to situations -QUESTION: I don't see - yeah?MR. STEWART: If it - if it was limited tosituations in which the Government set out to violate an th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. individual's rights under the Privacy Act, that - thatwould be another way at least of -QUESTION: Yeah, yeah, and then you'd say, well,we should assume that's what happened here, though. Itcertainly didn't -MR. STEWART: I - I mean -QUESTION: - but we should assume that. Now,suppose I assume that, and then I decide that they'reright on the basis of that assumption, and then in thenext case it turns out my assumption happened to be quitewrong because Congress had a broad intent there. Now whathappens?MR. STEWART: I mean, even under the narrowestpossible interpretation of what intentional or willful means, you could have hypotheticals like the one with theform that left off the U.S.C. cite, and again, we - wehope those things would happen very rarely, but it seemshighly unlikely that Congress would have wanted each ofthe hundred thousand people who put on - information onthe form to get $,. Thank you.QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. Stewart. Mr. Campbell, you have five minutes remaining.REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF MR. JACK W. CAMPBELL, IVON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERMR. CAMPBELL: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. Justice Kennedy, I'd like to address my firstpoint to you, because I - I think you put your finger onone of the number of - of absurd results, or difficult-to-swallow results that flow from accepting theGovernment's interpretation. The Government's essentialcontention here is that quantification of actual damagesis an essential element of a Privacy Act claim, but boy,what a strange way to write the statute if that's whatCongress intended.The - the relative language is reproduced atpages and of petitioner's brief, and it says thatwhenever an agency fails to comply with any otherprovision of this section, and I'm going to ellipsis, insuch a way as to have an adverse effect on an individual, the individual may bring a civil action against theagency, and I'm putting another ellipsis there. You thengo to subsection (g)(), which states that if that adverseeffect was the result of an intentional or willfulviolation, then the Government, the United States shall beliable, in the sum - in an amount equal to the sum of. Liability is established once those threeprerequisites are met. All that is left at that point isan exercise of arithmetic. It would be a very strangestatute that says the United States shall be liable in thesum of the following amounts you are to add up, and that th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. amount would be zero. And, in fact, that would never bethe case. Costs are always available to a Privacy Actplaintiff who establishes an adverse effect caused by anintentional or willful violation of the act.So there are certainly going to be at least somerecovery. There's no qualification of the costs awardwith reasonableness of precondition of actual damages. Sosome - there is going to be a recovery in those cases. Now, if that's the only recovery that's available, it's avery - it's, one, a very strange statute, and number two,a statute that arguably is unconstitutional. But youdon't need to read it that way, because the naturalreading is, as was pointed out in the argument, that, yes,Congress did anticipate precisely this issue, that privacy invasions very typically result in emotional harms thatinherently are not quantifiable, and Congress didn'tintend, I can't imagine, to - to make the line of recoveryturn on whether you can prove that you put - a -centstamp on an - on an envelope to get your credit report orpay the $ fee. That's a very arbitrary line. Why wouldCongress be solicitous of people who suffer the same harm- be solicitous of the one who put a stamp on an envelope? That's a nonsensical.Moreover, it reduces any efficiency savings thatare realized under the act as Congress intended by saying, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. look, we're not going to get into those sorts of proofissues. If you have an emotional distress and it'stypical, it's caused by the intentional violation, wedon't go through that. You get your damages of $, andlet's not go through the proof. That's a very naturalreading of the act. But the Government - the Government is askingyou to adopt a - an interpretation that has a number ofadditional problems. It renders the adverse effectrequirement superfluous. Proof of actual damages willnecessarily in every case require proof of an actual harmand causation. So even the attempt by the Government toplace a - a meaning on the adverse effect requirement mustfail. Again, it turns the shall language into may, or at best, renders shall illusory, because the sum would bezero in much cases.QUESTION: As to your point about the - thecosts. You don't get costs unless, it says the court mayassess reasonable attorneys' fees and other litigationcosts reasonably incurred in any case in which thecomplainant has substantially prevailed. And I assumethat when later on they - they say the costs of the actiontogether with reasonable attorneys' fees as determined bythe court, they're referring back to the court has allowedthose - those costs and fees, because he has substantially th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. prevailed?MR. STEWART: I'm sorry, Justice Scalia. I - areyou referring to the language that's in (g)() and (g)()of the statute?QUESTION: Yes, I am.MR. STEWART: (g)() and (g)() are entirelydifferent causes of actions. Those deal with requests forinjunctive relief, and this is the only type of injunctiverelief under the Privacy Act, injunctive relief for accessto files or correction of files. Those are separatecauses of action. In fact, I submit, Justice Scalia -QUESTION: I see. I see what you're saying.MR. STEWART: - that the contrast in the languagebetween (g)() and (g)() -QUESTION: I see what you're saying.MR. STEWART: - and (g)() proves my point. Here, Congress anticipated that there is a substantial -substantially prevailing party. That party -QUESTION: Well, what assumption would you likeus to make -QUESTION: Right, right.QUESTION: - in respect to the meaning ofintentional or willful?MR. STEWART: I - I submit that a perfectlyproper interpretation of intentional or willful can th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. include conscious disregard of - of the - of the legalobligations. That's a well-established standard.Thank you.CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: Thank you, Mr.Campbell. The case is submitted.(Whereupon, at : a.m., the case in theabove-entitled matter was submitted.) th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. 