 IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XWILLIAM OVERTON, DIRECTOR, MICHIGAN DEPARTMENT OF CORRECTIONS, ET AL., Petitioners ::::v. : No. -MICHELLE BAZZETTA, ET AL. :- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XWashington, D.C.Wednesday, March , The above-entitled matter came on for oralargument before the Supreme Court of the United States at: a.m.APPEARANCES:THOMAS L. CASEY ESQ., Michigan Solicitor General,Lansing, Michigan; on behalf of the Petitioners.JEFFREY A. LAMKEN, ESQ, Assistant to the SolicitorGeneral, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on behalf of the United States, as amicus curiae,supporting Petitioners.DEBORAH LaBELLE, ESQ., Ann Arbor, Michigan; on behalf of Respondents. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC C O N T E N T SORAL ARGUMENT OF THOMAS L. CASEY, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioners ORAL ARGUMENT OFJEFFREY A. LAMKEN, ESQ. On behalf of the United States,as amicus curiae, supporting Petitioners DEBORAH LaBELLE, ESQ.On behalf of the Respondents REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OFTHOMAS L. CASEY, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioners PAGE th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC P R O C E E D I N G S(: a.m.)CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: We'll hear argumentnow in No. -, William Overton v. Michelle Bazzetta. Mr. Casey.ORAL ARGUMENT OF THOMAS L. CASEYON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERSMR. CASEY: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it pleasethe Court, the lower courts in this case were wrong fortwo reasons. First, because the Constitution does notgive prison inmates a right to receive in-person visitssince that activity is inherently inconsistent with thestatus as a prisoner and with legitimate penologicalobjectives and second, because the Michigan visitationrules are rational and reasonably related to legitimate penological interest. The Court has recognized the right of intimateassociation with certain people in certain circumstancesoutside of the prison context in cases such as Roberts v.United States Jaycees. In Turner v. Safley, the Court examined thequestion of how to evaluate a right which is recognizedoutside of the prison context and determine whether itapplies inside the prison. The right there was the right to marry. The th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC Court said you should look at the elements or incidents ofthe rights to determine whether it is affected byincarceration or the pursuit of legitimate correctionsgoals. In Roberts, the Court also identified severalattributes of the right of intimate association whichrespondents assert. These rights include a high degree ofselectivity and decisions regarding the affiliation,seclusion from others, relative smallness of the group. Our contention is that all of the theseattributes are significantly affected by incarceration andthey are inherently inconsistent with incarceration. Andso the --QUESTION: Well, does the right to associationwhile in prison survive in some form, do you think? MR. CASEY: In -- the right to have therelationship which is what was actually at issue in Safleywith marriage and in the Jones case with prisoner -- withthe union membership. That status can survive. There'sno effect on the relationship here. What this case isabout is activity --QUESTION: Noncontact visits, aren't we talkingabout here? MR. CASEY: Noncontact visits but it involvesactivities inside the secure prison walls in furtherance th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC of the relationship. There's no impact on therelationship itself, the question is, can prison officials-- do the necessities of prison have an impact on theright of association.QUESTION: What would exist outside -- whatrelationship are you talking about? MR. CASEY: The relationships that the prisonersare asserting are family members beyond the definition ofthe Michigan prison system -- has adopted particularlyminor nieces and nephews. One of the problems with --QUESTION: Well, presumably children of theprisoner are included, are they not? MR. CASEY: Children of the prisoner areincluded within the definition --QUESTION: There are limited -- they have to be accompanied by, what is it, a legal guardian? MR. CASEY: By a family member within thedefinition or a legal guardian, that's the Michiganregulation. QUESTION: As I understand it, the regsoriginally would have prohibited visits from minorsiblings of the prisoner and that has been changed bystatute; is that correct?MR. CASEY: There was a statute passed, right atthe close of the district court opinion that permitted the th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC Department to permit visits by siblings, the Departmentchanged the regulation to include siblings, minor siblingvisits, so that issue is no longer before the courts. QUESTION: Excuse me. I'm sorry.MR. CASEY: Pardon. QUESTION: On the class of visitor eligibilitythen, what we're arguing about is nieces and nephew, minornieces and nephews? MR. CASEY: That is the class with respect tominor children, they also have a contention about formerinmates and --QUESTION: That's, that's what I meant. What isthe State's interest in -- in restricting visits fromminor nieces and nephews of the prisoner? MR. CASEY: The prison officials testified uniformly that there were serious overcrowding problems,prison management problems, concerns about safety, so theoverriding interest was to reduce the volume of visitors.QUESTION: So it's simply a means of reducingvolume? There's nothing peculiar to the niece/nephewrelationship?MR. CASEY: That's correct. QUESTION: You just want to keep the numbers down and this is one way to do it. MR. CASEY: To keep the numbers down, the th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC Department is permitted to draw lines. And that is todraw a line --QUESTION: Is it also of some concern with theactivities of children within the prison as opposed toadults? MR. CASEY: Oh, absolutely. That -- there was-- there is extensive testimony that not only was there aproblem with overcrowding and management, just because ofthe volume in general, but particularly, because ofchildren. QUESTION: Mr. Casey, I would like to back up togo where you were when you were responding to JusticeO'Connor's question. Do I take it that your position iswhatever rights there may be to have a relationship, forexample, by telephone call, correspondence, there is absolutely no right to any visitation, even noncontact, sothat whatever you permit is a matter of administrativegrace? Is that your starting position? MR. CASEY: Yes. In response to --QUESTION: There is no right to visitation,noncontact visitation at all? MR. CASEY: That's correct. QUESTION: So everything that we're arguingabout -- you -- in your view of this is a matter ofadministrative grace? th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC MR. CASEY: That's correct. QUESTION: Do you have a fallback position fromthat? And if so, what is it? MR. CASEY: The Court specified three issues andthe first issue is whether there is a right to visitationat all. Our position on that question is there is noconstitutional right. It's a privilege. It's not aright. The second question was whether assuming thereis some limited right, are the Michigan regulationsrational and reasonably related to legitimate correctional goals. QUESTION: Mr. Casey, would you explain -- youhave been very clear of what is your position about --round one of this case in the lower courts, when you clarified that your regulations went only to contactvisits and then you came around and said it applies to allvisits. MR. CASEY: The way the case evolved -- the regulations on their face apply to all visitation. Therestrictions apply to both contact and noncontact. Whenthe case was initially filed, there were motions forsummary judgment. There was a -day hearing on thatmotion and most of the testimony that was introducedrelated to contact visitation. So when the case first th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC went to the court of appeals, the court of appealsmistakenly viewed the case as relating only to contactvisitation. QUESTION: Well, I got the impression that theState had represented that they -- that they covered onlycontact visitation? MR. CASEY: There were statements in the briefreferring to contact visitation, largely because that wasthe evidence that was adduced at the summary judgmentproceeding. But the complaint challenged the regulationsin their entirety. And the parties, I believe, understoodthat it applied to both contact and noncontact. QUESTION: But the Court thought it only appliedto contact visitation --MR. CASEY: In the court of appeals' first opinion it held that it applied only to contact. Then itwent back to the district court and then we had longertrial, more elaborative evidentiary proceeding. QUESTION: In the district court the first timearound the district court didn't think it was limited tocontact? MR. CASEY: The district court dismissed thecomplaint in its entirety on our motion. There was nomisrepresentation. There may have been some unintentionalstatements which led the court of appeals to conclude in th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC the first view --QUESTION: But the district court understoodthat it was dismissing the complaint with respect to anyvisitation, contact and noncontact, or we just don't know?MR. CASEY: The first order of the districtcourt dismissed the complaint in its entirety. And thecomplaint, the initial complaint, did not say we arechallenging only contact. The -- as I say, because of theway the summary judgment evidence went in, it evolved thatthe -- the court of appeals thought it was related only tocontact. But the rules on their face don't make adistinction between contact and noncontact. QUESTION: May I ask this question? The rules asI understand are at page of the appendix of the certpetition and they don't tell us anything, at least I couldn't find anything, about the number of visits aperson can have or how often. Do the rules regulate thatthe number of times a particular visitor may visit aninmate? MR. CASEY: Yes. At page of the jointappendix, there's a memorandum that was issued in April of, which sets out hours of visitation for differentinstitutions -- it varies between institutions. QUESTION: of the joint appendix? MR. CASEY: Of the joint appendix. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC QUESTION: I see. MR. CASEY: Yes. And it varies -- excuse me,Your Honor. QUESTION: It limits the number at any one time. But does it limit, you know, you can only have so manyvisitors a month? MR. CASEY: Yes. QUESTION: Why isn't that sufficient to solvethe problem of overcrowding and too many -- too manypeople? If -- if you have too many people, an easy way tosolve it is just to reduce the number of visits each oneof the inmates is allowed to have per month. MR. CASEY: That would have been one solution.The Department chose a solution where they evaluated thevisitors and concluded that it would be best to make quality visits for close family members followingessentially --QUESTION: Is there any evidence they found outhow many nephews and nieces would be excluded by the rulesand, therefore, worked that into the quantitydetermination, that's a strange way to regulate quantity.MR. CASEY: They did not know in advance howmany nieces and nephews. We simply don't keep that kindof record. QUESTION: Is there a specific anti-niece -- I th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC didn't understand this case, I guess. I thought there's asimple determination by the prison authorities, we don'twant children in the room, period. Now, we'll make anexception for that if they're your children. MR. CASEY: That's essentially what they did. QUESTION: And the reason had nothing to do --it had something to do with a lot of people, but basicallythey think children are more dangerous to the child ormore disruptive, because they're younger, harder todiscipline, they might run around in the room. They mightlearn things that -- that they don't want children exposedto the language or behavior of the prisoners, et cetera.So I just thought it was -- now maybe you're telling me,no no, that's not the reason it was totally different. MR. CASEY: No. That's --QUESTION: This is quite interesting to me. MR. CASEY: No, that's one of the bases, it would possible to prohibit all children in prisons. QUESTION: No, they don't prohibit all children.They say generally children are more of a problem thanadults to have in visits. MR. CASEY: That's correct. QUESTION: So we draw a line. We say nochildren except for your own children.MR. CASEY: That's correct. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC QUESTION: Right. MR. CASEY: That's our position. QUESTION: So why don't you defend it on thatbasis, if that's what it is? MR. CASEY: Well, I thought I was, I'm sorry ifI didn't make that clear, Your Honor. The Department madedecisions on who is to visit. And they said we are goingto permit visits with close family members, children,grandchildren, at some point they have to draw a line, asyou've said, Justice Kennedy -- and they drew a line toeliminate certain extended family members. One of the problems is -- is -- if the Courtfinds that there is a right to visitation, the -- therewill be -- I suspect a great deal of additional litigationon where those lines can appropriately be drawn. Michigan, for example, has very generous rulesconcerning times of visitation, they permit visits onevenings, on weekends and holidays, some States don't dothat. If there's a right to visitation, I suspect therewill be litigation on --QUESTION: Is there any limit on the number oftimes the same person can come in a given month? MR. CASEY: No. There -- inmates, for example,in the lowest security level are entitled to eight visitsper month. And the time is -- is not regulated either. It th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC depends on overcrowding and situations like that. QUESTION: What adults are permitted? Suppose Idon't have any children, I don't have any spouse, I don'teven have any siblings. MR. CASEY: The rule permits an inmate todesignate immediate family members as defined by theDepartment and other individuals. QUESTION: Ten others, okay.MR. CASEY: Now, there are certain prohibitions,former prisoners are prohibited, I think, unless they're afamily member and receive the warden's permission. Thatis being challenged here as well, but --QUESTION: In relation to the family, this onelast question, a child must be accompanied by an adult andyou cut that back from any adult on the filing of the affidavit to only an immediate family member. Does animmediate family member include an unwed father? MR. CASEY: No, it includes spouses, but itwould include, it would include --QUESTION: But an unwed father would not be aspouse? This is the child -- the mother is incarcerated,the child is brought to visit her. Can the person whobrings the child be that child's biological father, maybeeven care-giving father? MR. CASEY: The child can visit if the child, th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC you know, is the biological child, but the child has to bebrought by a member of the immediate family. QUESTION: But the unwed father would be amember of the child's immediate family. MR. CASEY: That's correct. QUESTION: Although not of the mother'simmediate family? MR. CASEY: That's correct. Someone other thanthe unwed mother would have to bring that child under therules. QUESTION: The mother is in prison? MR. CASEY: But someone other than the unwedfather would have to bring --QUESTION: The unwed father would not qualify? MR. CASEY: He is not qualified --QUESTION: Unless he's the guardian? Unlesshe's the guardian? MR. CASEY: If he is the legal guardian, yes. QUESTION: If he's the legal guardian, he would?MR. CASEY: Yes. If the mother, the custodialparent, has gone through legal guardianship. QUESTION: That's enough family relationshipdespite the lack of the wedding bond, he would probably bethe guardian, I would guess, wouldn't he? MR. CASEY: The guardian in fact, perhaps, but th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC the Department is permitted to insist on enough evidenceto demonstrate the legal relationship. And, again, thiscase is about drawing lines, and the prison officials heredrew reasonable lines based on a perception that theyobserved in --QUESTION: This is a facial challenge not as anas-applied? Would an as-applied challenge be possible,assuming we recognize some right of visitation? MR. CASEY: These rules could be challenged asan -- on an as-applied basis but we did go through acomplete trial on the merits here. There is evidence.Our position is we submitted evidence todemonstrate the reasonable relationship under Turner v.Safley. So if there is a right, then we satisfied therequirements of -- of permitting our rules to take -- to take a --QUESTION: A particular person brought thisaction, did they not? Michelle Bazzetta? MR. CASEY: Yes. It's a class action. Inmatesand --QUESTION: And she was an inmate somewhere? MR. CASEY: She was an inmate. So -- I have notaddressed the Court's third question, the cruel andunusual punishment. If there are no questions on that,I'll rely on the briefs. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC And I would like to reserve my remaining timefor rebuttal. QUESTION: Very well, Mr. Casey. Mr. Lamken. ORAL ARGUMENT OF JEFFREY A. LAMKENAS AMICUS CURIAE, SUPPORTING PETITIONERSMR. LAMKEN: Mr. Chief Justice and may itplease the Court. The right asserted here for inmates toreceive in-person visits other than those permitted byCorrections Department rules is consistent neither withinmate status nor with the legitimate penologicalinterests underlying Michigan's rules. QUESTION: But, Mr. Lamken, you are thenagreeing with Mr. Casey that there is no right of -- noright to any visitation, contact, noncontact, that what right -- what privilege is extended is a matter ofadministrative grace? MR. LAMKEN: That is our initial position, yes. And we also have two backup positions. QUESTION: On your initial position, in yourview, under a scheme like this could complete discretionbe given to the warden to determine who gets thevisitation and who does not? He said, you know, youdidn't really -- you've been looking sloppy for a coupleof days so I'm going to take away your visiting th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC privileges? MR. LAMKEN: Not necessarily. The fact that theFederal Constitution itself does not create a liberty or aproperty interest in visitation, does not preclude thepossibility that State prison regulations or State lawmight create that type of interest. It could not be takenaway under --QUESTION: I know it isn't an issue here. Butone of the reasons I'm asking is because if the wardendoesn't have complete discretion, then that indicates thatmaybe there's some right that's either conferred by thestatute or by the Constitution. You say the warden hascomplete discretion? MR. LAMKEN: The answer is not necessarily. Andthat is the Court would have to examine under the standards established by -- in Sandin v. Conner, whetheror not State law provides a property or a liberty interestthat can't be taken away without sufficient process. And that --QUESTION: As you read these regulations, doesthe warden have the complete discretion? MR. LAMKEN: Well, it's not a question of whatthe content of the regulations are. That was -- Sandin v.Conner got rid of that inquiry. Instead, the question iswhether it is a grievous deprivation or an adverse -- or th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC excuse me, an atypical hardship that is contrary to thetypical norms of incarceration. QUESTION: And under that standard, do you thinkthe warden should have complete discretion to deny anybodyfor any reason visiting privileges? MR. LAMKEN: We think that's a very difficultquestion. If push came to shove, our answer would be thewarden should have that discretion but I should point outthat Bureau of Prison regulations and the State ofMichigan both provide extensive hearing procedures beforesuch rights are withdrawn. And such that the type of --for example, in Michigan, you can challenge the underlyingfinding of misconduct if your rights are going to be takenaway for the minimum -year period ban that's at issuehere. And you get not only an investigation, you get a hearing, you get administrative review, you get judicialreview. And we believe that those types of procedures arecertainly sufficient in terms of due process. The answer to our question would be if push cameto shove, we would say no, it could be a matter of --QUESTION: Then how would you distinguish theholding in Turner against Safley pertaining to the rightto marry? MR. LAMKEN: On two bases, Justice Stevens. First, marriage has or can have a religious, that is free th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC exercise element, and it also has an effect on propertyrights and the rights to certain benefits outside theprison context. Neither is true of the right to -- ofvisitation. Second, incarceration as a form of punishmentnecessarily places a barrier between the prisoner andthose with whom he would otherwise associate. The veryessence of the punishment is that separation and thevesting of control over exceptions to that separation, inthe State and corrections authority. Marital status in contrast, such as freeexercise of religion, doesn't have the necessaryrelationship to incarceration as a form of punishment. QUESTION: But if you say there's --QUESTION: Do all prisons allow some form of visitation for prisoners? Isn't that a pretty universallyaccepted practice? MR. LAMKEN: It is a universally acceptedpractice, that for certain prisoners under properconditions, certain visits, will aid in rehabilitation andthat is the accepted view and one that the Bureau ofPrisons firmly supports. QUESTION: Right. If you're going to releasesomebody back into society, you don't want to cut off allcontact with family members or friends who might help that th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC person on release, do you? MR. LAMKEN: Well, that, Justice O'Connor, is amatter of penological philosophy, but not a matter ofconstitutional right. And as a matter of soundpenological philosophy, the Bureau of Prisons, forexample, does allow visits. But it will restrict thosevisits rather severely if the -- if the circumstancesprovide. And we believe that one --QUESTION: Well, why isn't the Turner/Safleyrule quite adequate here to deal with this? MR. LAMKEN: Well, Your Honor, you could decideit -- actually Turner v. Safley, as we read it has twocomponents. On page in particular, it says that aninmate retains those rights that are not inconsistent withincarceration or with the penological interests of the corrections system. And so we believe that this Courtcould resolve it under either of the inconsistent-with-inmate status problem, which is to say that there is noright. Or it could go into the Turner v. Safley balancingand determine that, in fact, Michigan's rules do have therequisite relationship to legitimate penologicalobjectives. QUESTION: But as to the first, if you're righton the first point, which is what is disturbing about thefirst point, a prisoner would have no right whatsoever to th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC any kind of visit or communication or association withoutside people, even if there were virtually nopenological reason for doing that? And that's -- why doyou have to go that far? MR. LAMKEN: Justice Breyer, I think part --whenyou say communication, I wouldn't go that far. We aresaying that --QUESTION: You say that because that's what'sthat the cases seem to say. Communication, association. MR. LAMKEN: Well, in fact, what incarcerationcuts off and what the punishment of incarceration is isthe physical separation of the inmate from the rest ofsociety. The inmate, for example, it's not inconsistent,for example, for a corrections official to have authorityto give an inmate a furlough to go outside to work for example. But it is inconsistent, for an inmate to say youmust give me a furlough to go outside because your failureto do so interferes with my in-person associationalrights. The very essence --QUESTION: You're thinking of cases where that'sjustified what the prison is doing. And if you win onyour first point, you better think of cases where theprison is unjustified, but it still wins. MR. LAMKEN: Well, I think the answer is, thevery essence of the punishment of incarceration is th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC separation from society and the vesting of exceptionsthereto in corrections officials. That is the punishmentand that is the difference between, for example, a broaderright to communicate, which wouldn't necessarily be cutoff. A broader right --QUESTION: You would say that even if -- even ifthe prison -- even if the prison administration isunjustified in refusing to allow the prisoner a furloughout into society, even if a thoroughly trustworthyprisoner, you'd still say he has no right to that? MR. LAMKEN: Absolutely. That is the nature ofincarceration as punishment, Justice Scalia. Turning to the Turner balance argument --QUESTION: So you say there can be solitaryconfinement for life, if that's what the State wants? MR. LAMKEN: Justice Kennedy, solitaryconfinement should be distinguished from merely cuttingoff visitors from outside. And the answer to yourquestion is, yes, under certain circumstances, solitaryconfinement for life would be permissible, but one would,as the Court has pointed out in various cases, have to --QUESTION: Well, then under all circumstancesunder your view? MR. LAMKEN: Well, the barrier for solitaryconfinement for life would be whether or not that's cruel th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC and unusual punishment. But the reality of prison life isthat prisoners don't get to choose who their cellmatesare. They don't get to choose who they bunk with. Theydon't get to choose who they dine with. They don't getto choose the institution in which they're incarcerated. Even though each of those personal choices may beprotected outside. QUESTION: Well, presumably, the prison allowsprisoners to send mail? MR. LAMKEN: Yes, that's correct. QUESTION: Okay. How about phone calls? MR. LAMKEN: In this case the prison does allowphone calls for outside, which are other means by whichgeneral First Amendment community rights --QUESTION: So a prisoner who doesn't know how to read and write and who has -- whose family has notelephone, what are they supposed to do without a contactvisit? MR. LAMKEN: Well, the Court --QUESTION: Or a noncontact visit? MR. LAMKEN: The Court actually addressed thatin Pell, which is to say that that's not a problem unlessthe State precludes the prisoner from getting aid inwriting letters. And Pell actually addressed the specificclaim that the prisoners were unable to write. And th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC there's no evidence in this case that the State precludesprisoners from getting aid in writing or reading lettersso that they may communicate with the outside world. Butthe --QUESTION: Are you saying that there is a rightto communicate to that extent, or you've been candid andupfront and said there's no right to visitation. MR. LAMKEN: That's exactly the line we draw,Justice. QUESTION: Do you extend that as well totelephone calls and writing letters? MR. LAMKEN: No. There may be -- there may oris a distinct First Amendment and societal interest inallowing general communications between inmates and theoutside world. In that sense it's important to distinguish between the two rights at issue. One is asubstantive due process in-person associational right, andthe other is a more general First Amendment right tocommunicate or like a more general First Amendment rightto free exercise of religion. The former is whatincarceration cuts off. The latter is something thatincarceration may limit but generally only to --QUESTION: But you would agree that the inmatecould be -- have a visit from his lawyer? MR. LAMKEN: Yes, Your Honor. The inmate would th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC have a visit from the lawyer and potentially clergy as anexception as well. And that's because of the distinct andhybrid nature of the right. It's not merely anassociational right, but the right to a fair trial may beat issue, the right to petition for redress of grievances,the right to free exercise of religion may also be atissue in the case of clergy. That's why almost all ofthese limits, except clergy and lawyers. Turning to the Turner balance, the Court belowinvalidated the -- these rules as applied to noncontactvisits based on the principle that noncontact visits donot raise the penological concerns that contact visits do. That was incorrect for three reasons. First, many prisonsincluding Federal Bureau of Prisons' facilities, lacknoncontact facilities. The construction of new facilities is not the type of de minimis or ready alternative thisCourt contemplated in Turner. Second, the portable noncontact booths used bythe State of Michigan separate the visitor from the --QUESTION: Are there any high-security prisonsthat don't have noncontact facilities? I know there'ssome --MR. LAMKEN: No. QUESTION: -- low security. MR. LAMKEN: No. No. In fact, the Federal th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC Bureau of Prisons' facilities, if they are high securityor pretrial detention centers, they will have noncontactfacilities. If they are lower security --QUESTION: Well, shouldn't we decide the case onthe assumption that we're dealing with facilities that canhave noncontact visits? MR. LAMKEN: The facilities in these cases --may I answer the question, Chief Justice? I see I'm outof time.CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: Yes, you can. MR. LAMKEN: Okay. The facilities at issue inthese cases are portable booths, which separate the inmatefrom its visitor but not the visitor from all the inmateswho are having contact visits so they do not address theproblems of the child visitors having contact with inmates. CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: Thank you Mr. Lamken. Ms. LaBelle, we'll hear from you. ORAL ARGUMENT OF DEBORAH LaBELLEON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTSMS. LABELLE: Mr. Chief Justice, and if itplease the Court. The Court -- I would like to clarifyquickly the administrative proceedings before we got totrial in this Court, because the Court asked an inquiry. We did have a -day trial and a preliminary injunction th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC hearing and at that time the Corrections Departmentrepresented that the rules were only as to contact visitsand the Court, recognizing that there were some smugglingand contraband issues, thereafter denied a preliminaryinjunction and followed with the summary judgment, summarydisposition based solely on the understanding that it waslimiting -- these rules only limited contact visits. Andthat's how it went to the Sixth Circuit. QUESTION: So there's nothing in the district --in the district court's opinion or order that clarifiesthat? MS. LABELLE: No. The district court ruled onlywith regard to thinking it was contact and the SixthCircuit accepted it that way, when it became clear, whenit was sent down, that the visits were being applied to ban all visits for certain categories of people, we askedfor a rehearing in the Sixth Circuit, they used aclarifying opinion and then said that, no, thejustification is given for limiting contact visits,smuggling and contraband did not suffice for limiting allvisits for these categories of visitors. QUESTION: Did the case go to the Sixth Circuittwice? MS. LABELLE: Yes, Your Honor. It went to the Sixth Circuit after a whole -- th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC first on the initial preliminary injunction, then it wentback down, it was tried on the issue of noncontact visitsand the permanent ban. The permanent ban, Mr. ChiefJustice, was not tried in the first go-around, becausethey indicated that they had not yet implemented it in anyform, so it was not yet right. QUESTION: Is that particular procedural historysignificant in what we decide on the issues before us? MS. LABELLE: I think that it is notsignificant, only to clarify one point, the issue ofwhether the siblings are before this Court. It was afterthe district court's decision that the Department chose topass -- that a rule was passed voluntarily allowing theDepartment to allow siblings in, which they have, but theyhave put a position throughout the case and up through the Sixth Circuit that they had the right, at any time, towithdraw that voluntary choice to allow siblings. So Ithink the siblings issue is still very much before thisCourt. QUESTION: But their position is they have theright to say no to all children? MS. LABELLE: That's correct, Your Honor,including siblings, children, that it is all a matter ofdiscretion. QUESTION: So their position is not different th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC with respect to a child, a grandchild, a sibling. Theysay whatever we want to do, it's up to us to do in ourjudgment and you have no right at all, whatever you get isa privilege. MS. LABELLE: That's correct, Your Honor. And I think that that is why the case has gottenso far. It is because that the insistence that familiesand prisoners do not retain the rights of intimateassociation past the prison door. QUESTION: Is it unconstitutional then, and thisis why I'm reluctant to get this Court into a whole newline of constitutional law -- is it unconstitutional tosend a prisoner from the East Coast to a prison farremoved from his family and friends? MS. LABELLE: Certainly not, Justice Scalia. QUESTION: Why not? MS. LABELLE: Because that is a collateralconsequence of something that happens to prisoners. Theyget moved. They get transferred. This Court addressedthat in Olim. That's not what happened. QUESTION: Suppose they do it for the purpose ofdenying the prisoner the contact? MS. LABELLE: I think that if they are targetingthe intimate associational rights at issue, if that is thepurpose that we are going to target the intimate th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC associational rights, then a fundamental right has arisenand then it's a Turner question. QUESTION: You're not targeting the rights. Their object is not to cut off those rights. Their objectis to reduce the number of children in the room, to reducethe number of visitors, just as in the other case, theirobject is to use prison facilities that are more -- thatare cheaper, that are -- that are more readily available,so they send the inmates somewhere else. But if you have a constitutional right to the --to the visitations you're talking about, it doesn't seemright to me that you should be able to be removed from thepeople who could possibly visit you. MS. LABELLE: I think that, Your Honor, what'sgoing on here is that the decision to slice deeply into the family and to make that decision as to who gets tovisit and who doesn't goes directly to, and that's exactlywhat they did, they said, here are minors and we're goingto select out certain intimate associations, we're goingto slice --QUESTION: We're going to have to pass on one byone nieces, nephews, grandchildren, illegitimate children,children of -- one by one, all of these are constitutionalquestions, on the theory, I suppose, that what is trulystupid must be unconstitutional. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC MS. LABELLE: I think you don't have to for tworeasons, Your Honor. One I think if this Court affirmsthat the intimate associational rights that are at issuehere do pass through the doors for the families, that youwill have Departments of Corrections exercising theirdiscretion and their expertise under Turner, which they'reallowed to do, something that is clearly not evident here. They didn't -- there is no expertise in theirdecision. QUESTION: What -- what is the basis of the --is this some kind of a facial challenge to the wholescheme of regulating noncontact visits? MS. LABELLE: No, Your Honor. I think that --QUESTION: What is it? Is it an as-appliedchallenge, of some kind? MS. LABELLE: Thank you, Your Honor. With regard to the categorical restrictions,they are challenged as both facially and as-applied underTurner, because I think Turner is a very fact-intensivequestion. QUESTION: Well, what -- what happened to Mrs.Bazzetta who wrote this -- who brought this action? Didshe ask for all these things and was denied them? MS. LABELLE: The -- Your Honor, the -- it was aclass action. And she represented -- th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC QUESTION: I know it was a class action. MS. LABELLE: -- one of the -- what happened isthat she -- her sister wanted to bring in her newbornchild to visit Ms. Bazzetta and that would have been thenieces and nephews which were precluded. There were otherclass representatives --QUESTION: But her sister wanted to. I meanshouldn't her sister have brought the action, then? MS. LABELLE: The -- Ms. Bazzetta was denied thevisit with her niece and nephew. Her sister was also aclass representative. QUESTION: Ms. Bazzetta is the inmate? MS. LABELLE: Is the inmate. There were --theclass representatives were both the prisoners on theinside and the family members on the outside who joined together to bring this action. QUESTION: And what else did Ms. Bazzettachallenge that had happened to her, besides the visit fromher sister? MS. LABELLE: Ms. Bazzetta challenged only thedenial of her ability to see her nieces and nephew. Ms.Bunton challenged the ability to see her children. Ms.Barker challenged --QUESTION: Well, how -- how can one of themrepresent an entire class then if each of them is th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC challenging something different? MS. LABELLE: We had class representatives, YourHonor, that were certified as adequate to represent eachof the interests in which we presented to the Court. QUESTION: Is the claim a First Amendment claim or what? What -- what is -- what provisions of the Constitutionspecifically are you looking to? MS. LABELLE: With regard to the categoricalrestrictions on the minor siblings, children, nieces andnephews, it is both a First and Fourteenth Amendment claimof intimate association, and family association. And whatwe have said here is that the Department can make itsdecisions to limit people. They can do it eitherneutrally by volume, they can say we're going to sayneutrally that you can only have so many minors, just as they do adults. You can only have so many minors come tovisit at any time and we are not going to slice into who-- who is your most intimate family member. Or we can doit with regard to the further-out reaches, which is theycan say cousins, I suppose, or even further, but theycan't go into --QUESTION: What, where -- where --MS. LABELLE: I'm sorry, Your Honor. QUESTION: Where do you get this out of theConstitution? th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC MS. LABELLE: I think that I get it from theCourt's decisions in Moore, in Roberts and that this Courthas already said that --QUESTION: Well, Roberts was a case involvingwhether you can get into the Jaycees or not, not whetheryou could get out of prison. MS. LABELLE: I think that you're correct,YourHonor, in that the Roberts edicta, which everyone hasrelied upon in this case, is what I'm referring to. ButMoore directly says that you have to protect certainintimate family relationships and by anyone'sunderstanding of what it means to be family --QUESTION: Well, Moore was a zoning case. Imean, it had nothing to do with prisons. MS. LABELLE: It had nothing to do with prisons, Your Honor, but it did identify that there are intimateassociational rights involved in families choosing --QUESTION: But -- but when in the prisoncontext, we've had specific cases and have tried toarticulate some governing principles outlined largely inTurner v. Safley about what the prison can do and not do. Should we just look to that case and analyzing this ratherthan the -- some zoning cases and other things?MS. LABELLE: I think that -- I think thatTurner is the governing case in here and in fact, I think th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC if -- further that if these rules, if this is not affirmedit would be -- do great damage to the Turner case, becausewhat Turner says is when you have these fundamentalrights, that then you look to extreme deference to theCorrections Department. QUESTION: But Turner assumes the question thatwe've been immediately discussing, that there is afundamental right. Before you get to the Turnerquestions, you have to establish that there is a -- aright to -- to -- to visitation in prison. If you talkabout intimate -- the right to intimate familyassociation, I suppose there is no more stronger right tointimate family association than the right of -- of -- ofa man and wife to cohabit, and that's -- that's eliminatedin prison, unless you think that conjugal visits are constitutionally required. Do think that they're constitutionally required?MS. LABELLE: No, I don't think --QUESTION: It's a pretty intimate familyassociation that you're cutting off there, isn't it? MS. LABELLE: I think that although some Statescertainly allow it, it's not constitutionally required,because there is two prongs of Turner. One is whether it-- it is inconsistent with incarceration and certainly youcan argue that people going outside the prison, the th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC conjugal visits puts certain burdens and may beinconsistent with the general incarceration. QUESTION: You can arrange for it. MS. LABELLE: If every --QUESTION: You can arrange for it. MS. LABELLE: You can arrange for it. And Ithink that you would not win under a Turner test with thatlimit on that associational right. But here where theyhave impinged on the associational and intimateassociational right in such a way but if --QUESTION: Well, that's where we have --Mr. Lamken clarified that -- that there is a right ofexpression, and that's why he said you couldn't cut offletters. But he maintains that there is not this right ofintimate association, that the right doesn't exist at all. So you never get into Turner v. Safley balancing. And Ithink your first job is to establish that -- that just asa prisoner retains a right of expression, which can becurtailed drastically given incarceration, just as thereis that interest and expression, so there is a retainedinterest in intimate association, which can be shrunk, butnot totally eliminated. MS. LABELLE: Yes, I think that's correct,Justice Ginsburg. The -- this -- this Court has on the outside th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC recognized that we have intimate association rights, wehave companionship rights. And although they may -- theremay be attributes of that right, that are necessarilydiminished by -- by having one member of your family inprison, the many attributes of what it means to be afamily is not gone. The ability to see your -- yourwife's face, the ability to see your child and assure thatyou're --QUESTION: Well, all that is true, but I thought-- I thought that this case -- it's much more complicatedthan I thought. I thought it was fairly simple, at leastin my mind. I assume with you that Turner is the law andthere's some kind of constitutional right here. But Ithought we had basically four regulations, one says nochildren can visit unless they're your own children. Thesecond one says no prisoners can visit unless they're inyour family. The third one says that you lose thoserights if you're on drugs, you lose them for two years ifyou have two drug problems. And there was one other,which -- if the children come in, they have to beaccompanied by an adult, okay? And I thought that's whatthe regs say and, in addition, there's another reg whichsays, warden, if you feel you need to make an exceptionfor a particular visit, you can do it. Okay? Now, that's what the regs were, the district th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC court said those are unconstitutional. The court ofappeals said that's right and I would like to know,assuming with you, that Turner is the law, what'sunconstitutional about them? It strikes me as the mostreasonable thing to say that you can't have children in aprison environment unless they're your own children. What's wrong with that? MS. LABELLE: And I think, Justice Breyer,what's wrong with that is that it's not the business ofthe Department of Corrections to start making decisionsonce you decide that family members and children can comein, that to make decisions as to which family members areclose -- which -- for those people who are , , , whohave no children but wanted to see their only familymember, which was their brother or sister, the questions -- QUESTION: They've now dealt with that, I takeit. And you're saying that -- that we should decide whatis a totally hypothetical thing, whether a regulation in-- are they seeking damages? I take it they're seeking --MS. LABELLE: No. QUESTION: -- an injunction. The law is nowthat they will let the family members in, if you have abrother who's years old, they can bring the brother. So-- so I would think that's pretty hypothetical, but any th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC way, I'll consider that. What about the rest of it? MS. LABELLE: I think that the question iswhether it's reasonable to slice off certain familymembers and there's a penological --QUESTION: They say, sure, it's reasonable? MS. LABELLE: -- interest in doing it. QUESTION: Sure it's reasonable. The reasonablething is we want as few children as possible. But we'renot prepared to say, if they're your own children, you cannever see them. That tome sounds like a reasonable thing. Why isn't it? MS. LABELLE: Because it is total discretion onwhat constitutes the family and who comes in and itinterferes with the fundamental right at issue here whichis --QUESTION: Can't they -- can't they regulatecategorically rather than just tuning it to eachparticular family to say that your own children are in adifferent class than siblings or nieces or nephews and sayone can -- I mean, the whole thing is line-drawn. You'regoing to draw lines or slice somewhere as you put it. MS. LABELLE: I think that's true that you candraw lines, and you can draw lines that are content-neutral with regard to the family, because that's what theconcern was here, volume. So you can say, you can only th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC have two minors, or you can only -- on your list, or youcan only have five minors visit or we're going to limitthe number or they can say, we are only going to protectthe recognized intimate associations which include yourchildren, your grandchildren, your siblings and yournieces and nephews. QUESTION: Well, of course. QUESTION: You say nieces and nephews are thesame as a child, that I guess, that's a matter ofjudgment. And I take it I can imagine a case where aperson and who is a prisoner would have the samerelationship with let's say a foster step-child orsomething that he's raised that I might have or you mighthave with a natural child. But that's why I thought thereis a reg here that permits the warden to make exceptions in unusual cases. Now, why isn't that good enough? So that if thewarden turns a person down, where that is therelationship, then that person could complain about it andbring a lawsuit rather than striking down the whole reg. MS.re LABELLE: The -- the record in this caseis that the warden had neither discretion or at least thewardens that testified felt they had neither discretion toallow minor siblings in and -- or do they have anydiscretion whatsoever with regard to the permanent ban. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC QUESTION: Of course, Ms. LaBelle, once you leapover the -- the prior constitutional question, as JusticeBreyer has and go immediately to Turner v. Safley, we arein the line-drawing business. And it becomes aconstitutional question, whether it is unreasonable toexclude an nephew or a niece or somebody who has this, isas close to the prisoner as a child might be. Why do we want to get in this line-drawing? Why-- what is the problem here? Is there any real risk thatprisons are going to arbitrarily and unreasonably limitvisitation? Would -- would any prison -- or any persontrying to manage a prison without -- without a revoltarbitrarily cut off visitation? It seems to me a problemin search of a solution. MS. LABELLE: I think that, Your Honor, they did arbitrarily here, they denied all minor siblings --QUESTION: Solution in search of a problem. I'msorry.MS. LABELLE: They denied -- excuse me, YourHonor. They denied all minor siblings coming in. Theyrestricted who can bring the child in to such an extentthat there were -- that children were no longer allowed tocome in to visit their parents. They denied allbiological children. QUESTION: What do you mean they couldn't? The th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC children couldn't visit -- I'm now confused about thefacts. I have a reg in front of me, by the way, whichsays the warden may, quote, allow a single visit between aperson and a prisoner and a person not on the approvedvisitor's list as long as it's in the best interests ofthe prisoner and there's no threat to order and security. Now, why is it that that reg doesn't give the warden thepower to deal with unusual cases? MS. LABELLE: The testimony of the warden was ifyou were not on the -- the visiting list, Your Honor, youcould come in during the time that you were waiting to getcleared. But if by policy you were prohibited from comingin, if you were a minor sibling --QUESTION: I don't understand. MS. LABELLE: The testimony of the warden was that if by policy you were prohibited, then there could beno exception to policy. There could be --QUESTION: He said there's no exception, if, infact, a prisoner has raised a -year old child just asit's his own child, but, in fact, there's no formaladoption paper. So there's testimony that he would neverlet that child in? MS. LABELLE: There's testimony that -- thatthere was no ability for wardens to make exceptions withregard to policy decisions. If, in fact, the person had th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC not yet been able to clear and be put on the visitinglist, but they were allowed, those exceptions could bemade, but, for example, the -- the prisoner whose youngerbrother was begging to come in after their mother had diedand this was his only relative, the warden testified shecould not make an exception to that. QUESTION: I'm not concerned -- although Ibelieve you also said that there were -- their ownchildren weren't allowed in. What's the example of that?MS. LABELLE: The example of that was actuallythat there was -- some testimony with regard to JusticeGinsburg's example with regard to the -- the father of thechild who was unwed could not -- and who had custody ofthe child but was not the legal guardian could not bringthe child in to visit. There are many --QUESTION: No -- so, in other words, you have tobe the legal guardian of the child if it's not your child,in order to have a visit? MS. LABELLE: If you were not -- no. Even if itis your child, your biological child, you must be thelegal guardian, if you are not married. So that if you'renot married, you cannot bring -- the parent can't bringthe child in to visit the other parent, unless you gothrough the full legal guardianship proceedings. And -- th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC QUESTION: The relationship that counts is therelationship to the prisoner, not to the child? MS. LABELLE: Correct, Your Honor. QUESTION: And the unwed parent would not berelated to the prisoner, but you have on that list, let'sassume we're past the basic question and there is someconstitutional right, you have on the list a person whoseparental rights have been terminated, and you would allowthat person a right that doesn't exist outside the prison,in other words, once a parental relationship has beenterminated, there is no visitation right, according in thelarger society, but you would say that it's arbitrary inthe prison setting to deny that?MS. LABELLE: I think -- yes, Your Honor. Ithink because it's not a right to visit, you do have a right on the outside to that intimate association. If --and here, I mean you're not precluded from intimateassociation with your biological child and the parent, thelegal parent, can make a decision can make a decision asto whether --QUESTION: Well, then it's no right of yours, if-- if you -- if the legal parent wants to allow someonewith no parental rights, but you've -- as far as the lawis concerned, as far as any right is concerned, a personwho has -- whose parental rights have been terminated is a th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC stranger to the child. And it's one thing to talk aboutwhat would be reasonable for a prison to do. But I don'tknow how you get any right with respect to someone who hasno right outside the prison? MS. LABELLE: I think the protection forintimate association on the outside is not limited tolegal relationships. In here are legal parents on theoutside who are members of this class, and who were classrepresentatives saying, listen, the adoption here was anopen adoption. We all agreed that this child, in the bestinterests of this child, that it should see it -- his orher natural parent. And I'm making a decision that it'sin the best interests of this child to come in and visit. And it's the prison saying -- and I have to say the prison didn't say there's some reason for us to do this. Theysaid we never thought about it. We really --QUESTION: So this case -- this case, in otherwords, it sounds to me from having listened to it andlooked at it a little bit, it's a kind of litigationproblem, I mean, there's a long litigation history here ofcontention. And perhaps extreme positions. But given that, is it up to us to say, could wesay, look, on their face, these regs are okay, underTurner? If they're not -- if they're being applied in a th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC way that makes really very little sense, let theindividual who has this unusual situation of the, youknow, adopted child or something like that, let him askfor the visit, let him ask for an exception to be made, ifnecessary, and then if that doesn't happen, and I wouldimagine normally, if calm prevails, it would happen, butif it didn't happen, then he could bring his case. Or ifthere is such a person in this case, you could proceedwith that person. MS. LABELLE: Your Honor, assuming the rightthat exists and we go to Turner --QUESTION: Yes. MS. LABELLE: -- I think there has to be somereasonable justification for infringing on the right. Inthe case of, for example, the biological children, the guardianship -- which is not just one, Your Honor, but percent of the women in prison have their kids in fostercare or people who cannot bring them. We're not talkingabout one or two. We're talking about hundreds of peoplehere. To the extent that they have any reason, butwhat they said is we just didn't think about it. Theydidn't exercise their expertise. QUESTION: Ms. LaBelle, are you asking them toexercise their expertise on a subcategory of children th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC basis? Or are you saying as -- is your real pointsomething you mentioned a moment ago, that once they makea decision to allow child visitation, they've got torestrict it? If they restrict it at all on what you call-- I think you called a content-neutral basis. And Ibelieve you meant by that they can put a number on it,only X number of children in Y period of time or somethinglike that, but they cannot -- I thought you were saying --determine subcategories of children who will be privilegedand others that will not be. That would be one answer to Justice Breyer andone answer I guess to the problem that we've all got abouthow are we going to manage this litigation if -- if we'vegot to do it on a case-by-case basis. Is -- is your basicposition the so-called content-neutral position? All youcan regulate is number once you allow any in? MS. LABELLE: Yes, because that was the concernarticulated. If, in fact -- I suppose there could be oneexception. If in fact, there was some evidence of a -- ofa wild minor sibling smuggling ring and there was somebasis to target certain individuals, they could do it. But what they said --QUESTION: Well, then you would say the burdenwould be on the -- on the prison to say despite the numberregulation, this one can't get in as opposed to the burden th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC on the prisoner saying despite your regulation, anexception ought to be made for me? You're switching theburden? MS. LABELLE: Correct, Your Honor. QUESTION: All right. Now, so --QUESTION: What is your authority for -- incases from this Court, say, for the content neutralprinciple? MS. LABELLE: I think that the -- the authorityis -- is Turner itself, because what they said --QUESTION: Does it say something about beingcontent-neutral? MS. LABELLE: No, but it did say what you haveto do is compare the rationale for the regulation thatinfringes, you have to see if there's a reasonable penological purpose, are there alternatives and look atthe balancing. QUESTION: Well, do you think that's fair? Youthink that's fair? I have children that want to visit me. They are my children in -- in a stable wedlock situation,they can't visit, because we've adopted an absolute numberof children and and some of my coprisoners whose niecesand nephews want to visit, they have been visiting, so Ican't see my kids? Does that seem fair to you? MS. LABELLE: The -- the rules themselves, the th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC time, place and manner restriction. QUESTION: Well, you want an absolute number. Kids are kids. So since some of my coprisoners are seeingnieces and nephews, I can't see my children. There arejust too many. MS. LABELLE: I think that that wouldn't occur,Your Honor. QUESTION: It wouldn't occur? MS. LABELLE: Because, first if, in fact, youlimited the number of children down to such a minusculeamount of minors that had no relationship with theirconcerns with --QUESTION: Well, it would be anything under ninejust on --QUESTION: You put me in prison, you got big troubles. MS. LABELLE: But they allow that amount, YourHonor. What they said was we need to reduce volume by to percent. And we had absolutely no problem with thetime, place and manner restrictions it did so. What theydid by this sort of overbreadth and basically because theyfelt there were no rights at issue here, they reduced itover percent. There's -- I think that you have to look to seeif there's a reasonable relationship here. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC QUESTION: Let me ask you --MS. LABELLE: -- and there's not.QUESTION: I'm sorry. I didn't mean to cut youoff. Finish your --MS. LABELLE: No, Your Honor. Go ahead. QUESTION: How do you square your argument oncontent-neutral with respect to child visitation? Withother visitation that might be an issue, for example, oneof the things that's an issue here is the possiblevisitation of other prisoners. Would you say that theanswer to that is that once the prison allows any adultvisitation, the only limitation it can place as a generalmatter is numbers, and, therefore, the prison would haveto object on a specific basis with the burden to establishon a specific basis that the visitation of any prior prisoner would be deleterious? MS. LABELLE: I think that the -- what they dois, for adults, there's a limit there. QUESTION: No, no, just as a threshold question,are you going to apply your -- your content neutral-theory across the board to adults, as well as children? MS. LABELLE: Yes, absent there being arationale or a specific security concern, which is --QUESTION: And it would be the burden of theprison to show that in a given case? th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC MS. LABELLE: I think that if you're doing acategorical restriction, it is their burden. If they'redoing --QUESTION: I thought you were saying the onlycategorical restriction you can make is visitors,nonvisitors. When you say you can have visitors, the onlyfurther restriction is one of numbers given at least thisprison's rationale? Is that correct? MS. LABELLE: No, I think that you can haveindividual requirements as many States do with regard to arational basis to say someone who has been out of thisprison for months, we're not going to allow you to comein, because it's -- there's a rational basis. QUESTION: Okay. If you're going to accept thatkind of categorization as legitimate, what's your basis for saying that in the case of child visitation, it's gotto be content-neutral? MS. LABELLE: I think because --QUESTION: Or are you merely quantifying? MS. LABELLE: I think that because there wasabsolutely no basis, the only concerns -- I think becauseit was a different -- a deference to the differentconcerns articulated, the concern with regard to minorswas simply volume. There was no articulation that anyparticular group of minors raised any specific concern. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC QUESTION: So you're -- so you're saying, lookwe will take their rationale at their word, and if we takeit, this is the only limitation that they could put on? MS. LABELLE: That's correct, Your Honor. QUESTION: Okay. And the limitation by the wayin --QUESTION: But if you -- but if you spread toother prisoners, then you're going beyond theconstitutional right that you've identified as intimateassociation. I understand that for family. But just afriend who is an ex-prisoner. How does that come withintimate association? MS. LABELLE: May I answer the question, YourHonor? CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: You may answer the question briefly. MS. LABELLE: I think that the general rightthere was both a general associational right that you haveto companionships with loved ones as well as an equalprotection argument. CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: Thank you, Ms.LaBelle. MS. LABELLE: Thank you, Your Honor. CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: Mr. Casey, you have minutes remaining. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC REBUTTAL ORAL ARGUMENT OF THOMAS L. CASEYON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERSMR. CASEY: I would just like to clear up acouple of points initially. This case is not about visitsfrom lawyers or clergy. It's not about custody level. Persons can be or prisoners can be in minimum custodylevel and still have these visitor restrictions. So whenJustice Kennedy referred to solitary confinement, JusticeBreyer, excuse me, we're not talking about that. We'rejust talking about visitation. And Justice Ginsburg, I stand by my earlierstatements about the nature of the arguments in theinitial district court proceeding as it proceeded in thefirst court of appeals. The issue of a distinctionbetween noncontact and contact visits simply didn't come up in that -- -- in the -- in those district courtproceedings. QUESTION: And do I understand your positionthat you don't get to any Turner against Safley question,because there's simply no right to beginning with, noright that can be shown? MR. CASEY: That's our initial position, yes. The limitation to contact -- or to noncontactvisits is not a panacea. Children still present problemsof the -- they have unique risks and burdens. When a th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC guard and a visitationer is watching a child, they'redistracted from watching some other visitation. TheMichigan prison system, most facilities with multicustodylevels have one large room for visitation. They havetables and chairs for the contact, along one wall, therewill be vending machines and along another wall, therewill be one or two of these temporary booths. Andnoncontact prisoners are brought through the contact roomto that booth. Visitors for the noncontact prisoner arebrought through the contact room. There's ampleopportunity for exchange of contraband and visibility ofother activity that's going on in this one room. With respect to the argument about content-neutral regulations regarding children, prison officialsare entitled to make categorical decisions. The decisionhere is that it's better to permit the quality closevisits based on a parent-child relationship, partlybecause of limitations on time as Justice Scalia alludedto, there were overcrowding problems before theregulations were put into effect. All of the wardenstestified after the regulations were put into effect, theconditions were noticeably better. In closing, I would just like to emphasize, thatthe -- the judgment of the corrections officials here wasa valid exercise of their informed discretion regarding th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC the conditions of confinements. The courts should havedeferred to that, this Court has recognized deferral to,deference to prison officials as an important factor. And in summary the court of appeals should bereversed. QUESTION: If you have a minute, I have onefactual question? MR. CASEY: I would be happy to. QUESTION: From the brief from the respondents,I just want this clarified, there are a certain number ofprisoners who have families and they have children, butthey aren't legally married. Now from the briefs, I hadthe impression that visits are allowed by those children,even though they're not legally married, unless parentalrights have been terminated. But from respondents' argument, I had the impression that you could not have avisit from such a child, period, unless you went throughsome formal adoption procedure. Which is it? MR. CASEY: The -- a child of a prisoner isentitled to visit if they're brought by a member of theimmediate family or a legal guardian. QUESTION: Whether they're married or notmarried? MR. CASEY: That's correct. QUESTION: Thank you. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: Thank you, Mr. Casey. The case is submitted. (Whereupon, at : p.m., the case in theabove-entitled matter was submitted.) th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC 