 IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XBASIM OMAR SABRI, Petitioner :: v. : No. -UNITED STATES. :- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -X Washington, D.C. Wednesday, March , The above-entitled matter came on for oralargument before the Supreme Court of the United States at: a.m.APPEARANCES:ANDREW S. BIRRELL, ESQ., Minneapolis, Minnesota; on behalf of the Petitioner.MICHAEL R. DREEBEN, ESQ., Deputy Solicitor General, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on behalf of the Respondent. , Inc. C O N T E N T SORAL ARGUMENT OF ANDREW S. BIRRELL, ESQ. On behalf of the Petitioner MICHAEL R. DREEBEN, ESQ. On behalf of the Respondent REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF ANDREW S. BIRRELL, ESQ. On behalf of the Petitioner PAGE , Inc. P R O C E E D I N G S (: a.m.) CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: We'll hear argumentnow in No. -, Basim Omar Sabri v. the United States. Mr. Birrell. ORAL ARGUMENT OF ANDREW S. BIRRELL ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER MR. BIRRELL: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court: Section (a)() of title isunconstitutional on its face because it never requires thejury to find an element that the Constitution alwaysrequires. The statute's unambiguous language allows aviolation to be proved with entirely local conductunrelated to Federal spending. It thus intrudes deeplyinto an area the Court has recognized as one in which theStates possess primary authority. QUESTION: Yet there's no doubt, Mr. Birrell, isthere, that in some circumstances the statute could beconstitutionally applied? MR. BIRRELL: There are no circumstances where(a)() -- (a)() could be constitutionally applied,Your Honor, because the -- because the statute neverrequires that the jury find a connection between theFederal spending and the offense conduct. In the same way, Inc. that there were possibly circumstances in Lopez wherethere might have been an adequate Federal connection, butbecause the jury is not required to find it, there are notany circumstances where the statute could beconstitutional. QUESTION: Why -- why can't it be constitutionalunder the Commerce Clause? I know the Government doesn'trely on that, but respondent can be supported here on any-- any ground. Why -- why isn't this a commercialtransaction as -- as, you know, our -- our Commerce Clauselaw is? So long as the transaction is commercial, we willassume it's interstate commerce. We will accept Congress'judgment on that. Why isn't it a commercial transaction when youbribe somebody? Money for -- for whatever the favor hedoes. MR. BIRRELL: A couple things, Your Honor.First of all, there is not a requirement that interstatecommerce nexus be proved in the statute. QUESTION: That's not necessary. So long asit's commercial, our cases -- our recent cases, say solong as it's commercial, we'll accept Congress' judgmentthat it's interstate. MR. BIRRELL: Well, if Congress could createcommerce -- Commerce Clause jurisdiction everywhere that , Inc. it could spend money, then -­QUESTION: No, no, not everywhere it could spendmoney. Everywhere there is a commercial transaction. Oneof our cases, for example, held that loan-sharking couldbe covered under the Commerce Clause because it was acommercial transaction, just as illegal as -- as the -­the bribery here, but if that could be covered by theCommerce Clause, why can't this? MR. BIRRELL: Because without -- without ashowing that in each case there was a connection betweeninterstate commerce and the transaction -­QUESTION: That's not what our cases require. QUESTION: Is that true of the drug statutes too? MR. BIRRELL: I'm sorry, Your Honor? QUESTION: I mean, is it true whenever the Fedsprosecute a person for a drug transaction, a jury has todetermine there was a connection between these drugs andinterstate commerce? I've never heard of that requirement that -­that the -- that the jury would have to determine whateverfacts are necessary for the statute to be constitutionaleven -- even though that's not an element of the offense.Does that come out of a case or someplace? Where does itcome from? , Inc. MR. BIRRELL: Well, unless -- unless there wasan understanding that in every instance there was an effect on interstate commerce, then -­QUESTION: I mean, there might be instances where there's no effect on interstate commerce, a home -­you know, that -- that will be an issue, homegrownmarijuana. So suppose there is some drug somewhere thathas no effect. Suppose it didn't. There could be such athing. We can imagine it. But does that mean in allthese other cases that Congress -- that the statute isvoid because the jury hasn't found -- I'd be repeatingmyself. You answer. MR. BIRRELL: I -- I think that it is differentbecause the Commerce Clause is -- is a regulatory powerthat permits Congress to regulate. The Spending Clausepower is -- is a different sort of power. It does notmake that -­QUESTION: And you say here Congress does notrely on the Spending Clause because it -- it makes conductcriminal against an individual. MR. BIRRELL: I believe that Congress passedthis law under the Spending Clause power. I believethat's what they intended to do. All the -­QUESTION: To spend for the general welfare wasthe basis in the court below and that combined with, Inc. Necessary and Proper. MR. BIRRELL: That's right, Your Honor. QUESTION: And that's the position that wastaken below, and I think most of the courts of appealswent on that same ground. MR. BIRRELL: It's my understanding that everycourt that has looked at this has said that Congressattempted to pass this -- this particular statute underthe Spending Clause. QUESTION: Does -- does it matter what theyintended to pass it under? I mean, if they have the powerunder another -- under another head, would -- would thatnot be enough? MR. BIRRELL: That is true, Your Honor. Theycould -- they could -- the statute could be upheld ifCongress has the power to do it on any basis. QUESTION: The justification sounds like aSpending Clause justification, doesn't it, that the -­that they could not by a lesser means safeguard theseFederal funds? They tried narrower statutes and theydidn't work. But what they were trying to do was tosafeguard the integrity of the money that they were givingto these units by not having corrupt operations. Isn'tthat the case? MR. BIRRELL: That -- that's what they said they , Inc. were trying to do. They were trying to regulate theintegrity of -- or -- or police the integrity oforganizations, agencies, and local and State governmentsthat receive Federal funds. That's what they said theywere trying to do. QUESTION: And why is that not satisfactory? MR. BIRRELL: It's not satisfactory because thestatute doesn't require any connection between thespending -- Federal spending and the criminal conduct. QUESTION: Suppose that, just to use an analogyin the private sphere, a major corporation has a choice oftwo subcontractors and one subcontractor is known forengaging in lots of bribery and kickbacks, et cetera.It's confident that it's got auditors that will be able toprotect it in this instance. But don't you think if youwere the CEO of the corporation, you'd rather prefer -­rather deal with the subcontractor that was always clean?It's just a common sense business judgment, and that's allthe Government is doing here. MR. BIRRELL: That's not what the Government isdoing here, Your Honor. What the Government is doing hereis to criminalize purely local conduct. They'recriminalizing conduct that has no relation to any Federalspending. QUESTION: Well, it has relation because it , Inc. wants to give its funds to those entities that it hasconfidence in with respect to all of their operations. MR. BIRRELL: Well, it can make a choice aboutgiving money or not without criminalizing conduct.Congress has a number of ways that it can protect itsFederal money. It can protect it under Commerce Clause,Property Clause, not giving money, relying on the Statesto do -- to do what they need to do, False Claims Act,conditional spending. There's -­QUESTION: They really say if we find a citycouncil that takes money and -- from us, the city counciltakes the money for us for some of its programs here.There's a corrupt city councilman. We want to prosecutethat person. Why? Because we want council -- members ofcouncils to know that we're not going to toleratecorruption on behalf of the agency that's giving out ourmoney, whether in the particular instance it involved ourmoney or not. Now -- now, why isn't that sufficientconnection? MR. BIRRELL: Because, Your Honor, there is -­it may be that what -- that is what the Government wantsto do, but the question is whether the Government has thepower to do that. QUESTION: That's true, but why doesn't it? MR. BIRRELL: It doesn't have the power to do , Inc. that because there's not an element in the statute thatrequires there be a connection proved between the Federalspending and the wrongful conduct. There may be one, butthe jury is not required to find one. QUESTION: Suppose the Federal Government hadrecast the statute and said no State can get -- what's thelimit -- $, or more from the Federal Governmentunless it agrees to criminalize and impose the samepenalty set forth here for any State corruption. Wouldthat be constitutional under the spending power? It's acondition to the grant. MR. BIRRELL: It might be if -­QUESTION: It unquestionably would be, wouldn'tit? It's take it or leave it. It's -­MR. BIRRELL: Assuming it wasn't -­QUESTION: -- it's connected to the grant. Ithas some remote connection to it. That ought to beenough. It just seems very strange to me that the FederalGovernment would be able to compel the State to imposesuch criminal penalties, but it cannot itself do so inconnection with its spending. MR. BIRRELL: In --in Your Honor'shypothetical, it might be coercive, unduly coercive, butother than that, I don't see a problem with yourhypothetical. , Inc. But there's a -- the -- the Court -- this -- theCourt has said that Congress can attach conditions tomoney provided that the four Dole factors are met. Butthat is not what's occurring here. This Court has neversaid that Congress can use the Spending Clause power tocreate a criminal law statute. And the danger with thisis -­QUESTION: Well, have we ever said it can't? MR. BIRRELL: Well, only inferentially by Dole.So the question is never square with -­QUESTION: I think it's kind of hard to readDole for that proposition. I may have missed your response to an earlierquestion. You -- you bring a facial challenge. Whyshould we entertain a facial challenge? What if wetreated it as an as-applied challenge? Do you say theGovernment cannot prove the elements that you think arenecessary and thereby obtain a conviction? MR. BIRRELL: I -- I say that we -- we properlybring a facial challenge because the statute has no element requiring a connection between the Federal spending -­QUESTION: I don't -- we don't normally entertain facial challenges to statutes on a ground likethat. If it could be applied properly in an individual, Inc. case, why would we entertain the broader challenge? MR. BIRRELL: This statute cannot be properlyapplied in any case. It's always unconstitutional becauseit lacks this connection element. The statute is like -­QUESTION: You say because it lacks the requirement of a jury finding that there was the connection. MR. BIRRELL: Yes. Well, there are twoconcepts, both that there's not an element and that thejury doesn't need to find it. This statute is -- is likethe statute in Lopez. QUESTION: Well, what if -- what if Congress hadfound that interstate commerce is involved here and didnot provide for an individual jury finding in every case,would your argument be the same? MR. BIRRELL: I don't know, Your Honor, butCongress didn't make that finding. QUESTION: It's a very candid answer. (Laughter.) QUESTION: Where -- where does this -- I mean,I've asked you this before, but I'm not sure. Where doesthis jury finding thing come from? It's quiteinteresting. But -- but where -- I mean, suppose thatCongress passed a statute under the Patent Clause , Inc. criminalizing certain conduct in respect to patent, and atthe border there might be an -- a question of whether itdoes or does not fall within the Patent Clause, thatparticular criminal behavior. But I wouldn't jump fromthat fact that you'd have a legal argument it's outsidethe Patent Clause to the conclusion that therefore a juryhas to find in every patent crime -- a jury has to findthat it is within the clause. I'd have thought that was aquestion for the judge, not the jury. So you've beenemphasizing the contrary idea, and where do you get itfrom? MR. BIRRELL: Well, in the -- in the -- in YourHonor's Patent Clause hypothetical, that is a case wherethe Court would -- or the Congress would have a -- anenumerated regulatory power. This is -- this is a different thing. Now -­QUESTION: Well, it has the Commerce Clause power. I -- I don't understand your reliance on Lopez.You just said just -- just as Lopez was bad, whether ornot there -- Lopez was -- was bad because it was notcommerce, which is a judgment that this Court will make,whether it's commerce or not, but once it is commerce,you're in a different ball park. Once it is commerce, weassume it's interstate commerce, and that explains, you , Inc. know, a whole bunch of our cases, such as our loan­sharking cases. So Lopez has nothing to do with thiscase. Lopez was not commerce. Now, you -- you may argue that -- that briberyis not commerce although loan-sharking is, but I'm notsure how strong an argument that is. MR. BIRRELL: This case is like Lopez becausethe way I read Lopez -- I mean, I understand your pointabout whether the conduct in Lopez was commerce conduct ornot, but the way I'm reading Lopez is that the point isthat when you're on the -- the fringes of the power,commerce power in that case, that there needs to be a -­an element where the jury would find in each case that there was a connection between the exercised power of Congress and the conduct. So in our case -­QUESTION: You think there is such a -- such aconnection with loan-sharking, good, old, local, you know,break-your-knees loan-sharking. It's not -- not aninterstate thing. MR. BIRRELL: Well, you've -- you've told methat -- that the Court has said that there is, and I -- Iaccept that. QUESTION: That's United States v. Perez. Wetook a very expansive view of the Commerce Clause. And it , Inc. was pretty much of a local transaction in -- in the case,but the Court pointed out, you know, the ripple effectthat all commercial transactions have. MR. BIRRELL: Well, I would return to my pointthat I think that if the Congress can create CommerceClause jurisdiction by spending money and Congress isentitled to spend money under the Constitution anywhere itdeems it important for the general welfare, then whatwould naturally follow, it seems to me, is the generalpolice power that the Constitution denies to the FederalGovernment. It seems to me to be an inescapable chain ofreasoning that will get us there. QUESTION: Have any local law enforcementoffices complained about the Federal presence? MR. BIRRELL: There -- there's nothing in therecord about it, and I don't have anything to offeroutside the record of it. But the -- the question whetherthe local governments or government agents consent to aninvasion of their area of authority is -- is notdispositive. QUESTION: Question whether they regard it as aninvasion of their authority or rather a legitimateendeavor by the Federal Government to protect its money. MR. BIRRELL: Well, the -- the statute doesn'trequire the Federal Government to be acting to protect its , Inc. money. There -- there is not any requirement that thismoney be the Government's money. For example, a privatecitizen offers a -- a bribe to an agent. It could be anagent of a -- a corporation. The offer is refused and months later and for the first time more than $, isgiven to an unrelated part of the agent's business, thebusiness the agent works for. Then we now have a Federalcrime committed. There's not any requirement in thestatute that there be a connection between the Federalmoney and the offense conduct. And furthermore, there'snot any requirement that the jury find it. QUESTION: Would you like to reserve the balanceof your time, Mr. Birrell? MR. BIRRELL: I will reserve the balance of mytime, Your Honor. QUESTION: Very well. We'll hear from you, Mr. Dreeben. ORAL ARGUMENT OF MICHAEL R. DREEBEN ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT MR. DREEBEN: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court: The court of appeals correctly held that section does not require proof of a Federal connection betweenthe offense conduct and the federally funded program orFederal funds beyond that which the text of the statute , Inc. itself requires. QUESTION: What -- what is the basis, Mr. Dreeben? Under what authority did Congress pass the statute? MR. DREEBEN: Mr. Chief Justice, the Governmenthas relied on Congress' Necessary and Proper Clauseauthority to protect its Spending Clause expenditures andprograms in this case. I recognize that the Commerce Clause could alsoprovide a basis for Congress to reach transactionsinvolving criminal activity that affect commerce, but thisCourt in Salinas v. United States, in describing whysection was constitutional, as applied to the facts ofthat case, discussed that there was a legitimate Federalinterest in protecting the particular program thatcorruption had affected in that case. And the outgrowthof section historically is of an effort by Congress toimprove on previously deficient methods of protectingfederally funded programs. There were -­QUESTION: How far does that go? What if -­what if the Federal Government gave the State $? Couldit make -- could it make it -- it a crime for any personto bribe any State officer anywhere in any program at all?You know, the -- really is -- is there no end to the -- tothe scope of Congress' purported protection of its funds? , Inc. MR. DREEBEN: Justice Scalia, I think that thisCourt recognized, as recently as last term in Jinks v.Richland County, that analysis under the Necessary andProper Clause is deferential, tracing its roots back toMcCulloch v. Maryland, but there is an attenuation elementto the analysis. The law does need to be conducive andplainly adapted to the end that Congress is seeking toprotect. And in your example of $ to a State and thenprotection through criminalizing the activities of hundreds of thousands of agents, there might be an attenuation problem. QUESTION: Do you think $, is -- is clearly-- what's -- what's the -- what's the annual budget of NewYork State, do you know, or California? MR. DREEBEN: Okay. The annual budget ofCalifornia is -- at least in , was $ billion. QUESTION: $ billion. MR. DREEBEN: And the Federal Government -­QUESTION: And because there's $, ofFederal money, a drop of Federal money in this sea of -­of California funds, the -- the Federal Government cancontrol the whole thing. MR. DREEBEN: But there's not a drop. There's avirtual flood. There was -­QUESTION: No, no. But for the statute to, Inc. apply, it takes only $,. MR. DREEBEN: It does, Justice Scalia, butCongress was well aware that every State is the recipientof billion upon billions of dollars in Federal aid. Thereis substantial Federal money flowing to all of the States,and Congress could have dispensed with any dollarlimitation whatsoever with respect to State aid and simplymade a per se finding that Federal money is so infusedinto the State's budgetary activities, Federal programsare so pervasive -­QUESTION: How much does it give California? Ijust -- just --(Laughter.) QUESTION: You say it's a big -- a big figure.I believe you, but -­MR. DREEBEN: As of -- as of , Californiareceived $,,,. QUESTION: But why is California relevant? Thisis Minnesota, isn't it? (Laughter.) MR. DREEBEN: Justice Stevens -­QUESTION: It was my fault. I brought it up asa hypothetical. Right? (Laughter.) MR. DREEBEN: But I have Minnesota too. , Inc. (Laughter.) MR. DREEBEN: Minnesota received -- Minnesota'sbudget was $ billion, and it received ,,,Federal dollars -­QUESTION: What about Massachusetts? (Laughter.) MR. DREEBEN: Justice Breyer, I only have minutes and there are States. (Laughter.) QUESTION: Mr. Dreeben, I am concerned about thebreadth of your reliance on the Necessary and ProperClause and the Spending Clause power here. It seems to methat Federal funding extends to a huge range ofactivities, and why, under your theory, couldn't Congressmake -- take over the entire criminal law scheme becauseit affects Federal taxpayers? I mean, I don't see anylimit to your theory, and I'm curious why you're soreluctant to rely on the Commerce Clause. What's going onin this case? MR. DREEBEN: Justice O'Connor -­QUESTION: Are you trying to overcome theproblems of Lopez somehow, get a new thread of analysisthat gets you out from under that? What's -- what'shappening in this case? MR. DREEBEN: No. I think there are ample, Inc. avenues for the Federal Government to legislate, whenthings involve interstate commerce, without worrying aboutLopez. I believe the Court could uphold the statute asa regulation of interstate commerce, but it was clearlynot designed with that in mind, and this Court did not soregard it, or at least didn't articulate itself asregarding it that way in Salinas v. United States. Theproblem that Congress was trying to solve was a veryparticularized problem, not the generalized problem ofthere is crime in America, therefore it will affectfederally funded activities. The problem that Congress was trying to solvewas that it would give Federal money to particularentities to -- to administer Federal programs, and therewould be crime that had the potential to affect thoseFederal interests, but because of deficiencies orperceived deficiencies in prior statutory law, that crimecould not be prosecuted. In particular, with theft crimesthere was a problem because once title had passed with themoney to the local entity or State entity, some courtswere saying that was no longer theft from the FederalGovernment and the theft statute didn't apply. Withrespect to the Federal bribery statute, U.S.C. ,lower courts had divided on whether State and local , Inc. officials who were administering Federal programs could beheld accountable as Federal officials. And to remedy those deficiencies of prior law,section , as the court of appeals I think aptlydescribed it, changed the enforcement paradigm, and itsaid that what we want now is not to focus on particularFederal monies that we have difficulty tracing intofederally funded entities or who is a Federal official.We want to make sure that the entities that we fund tocarry out Federal assistance programs are clean, and theway that we are going to do that is to draft aprophylactic statute that ensures that all agents who areinvolved in the authority to conduct business on behalf ofthe entity are not engaged in significant acts of theft, embezzlement, or bribery. It, therefore, included various limitations in section that prevent it from being an all-encompassing, all-devouring statute that sweeps in allrelated crimes to the entities that are funded. There's a$, limitation with respect to the transactions thatare going to be influenced. It's not every traffic ticketthat is issued by any State agency. And there is a -- acondition, of course, that there be $, of Federalmoney going into the entity. Of course, there are going to be cases under , Inc. this statute where it will be difficult to articulate aclear -­QUESTION: $, annually or is it just a -­could it be a one-shot deal? MR. DREEBEN: It's -- could be a one-shot deal.it's a $, grant during a -month period that spansthe offense conduct in question. And as I was saying -­QUESTION: If -- if the State got -- I mean, theway you read it, just because you got $, last yeardoesn't mean that next year you're still subject to theact. It has to be -­MR. DREEBEN: That's right. QUESTION: -- during the year. Okay. MR. DREEBEN: That's right. The offense conducthas to be -­QUESTION: It says in any -year period, but I-- I assume that that means -­MR. DREEBEN: Any -year period, but there'sanother provision in the statute that makes clear that theperiod can include time before the offense conduct andtime after the offense conduct, which is naturally read tomean that it has to span the offense conduct. And thatprovision was designed to overcome the difficulty thatState and local agents would be bribed for activities that , Inc. they would have the power to engage in once the Federalmoney was awarded to their agency. And in anticipation ofFederal money coming into the entity, the officials couldengage in corrupt conduct. QUESTION: I assume this means that the FederalGovernment could also criminalize federally robbery orburglary committed against a private individual who hasreceived Federal funds, who has received a Federal subsidyin one way or another. Right? MR. DREEBEN: Yes, Justice Scalia, withinlimits. I think that there could be a -- a point in timeat which the Court might say that if the Federal Government passed a statute that said every robbery involves -­you know. forth?QUESTION: I mean, that's probably all of us,QUESTION: All welfare recipients --MR. DREEBEN: All money -­QUESTION: -- all Medicare beneficiaries, and so MR. DREEBEN: Well, the Court -- the Court longago upheld in United States v. Hall a statute thatprevented fraud and embezzlement directed at funds goingto veterans. So it has already upheld statutes in whichthe Federal interest in protecting the beneficiary's , Inc. use -­QUESTION: It was limited to the funds, though.It didn't say anything you -- anybody who gets any moneyfrom a veteran is -- is -- you know. MR. DREEBEN: That's -­QUESTION: And that's what this says. Anybodywho -- who bribes any State official, whether the Federalfunds are at issue or not. MR. DREEBEN: Well, this -- this statute,though, I think rests on a generalization that is lessattenuated and more reasonable than statutes that wouldtake the form of the statute Your Honor has described.This statute basically says if you have corrupt officialsin the entity that's getting Federal money, we have reasonto worry that you have poor internal controls, that youhave a culture of corruption, that you have insufficientmechanisms to root it out, and that the officials that areengaged in corruption today with respect to State moneymay tomorrow be engaged in corruption with respect toFederal money. QUESTION: So -- so call -- call this the cleanfunnel rationale. The agencies are funnels funnelingmoney to the -- and say, look, we have a pretty strongrationale here. We want clean funnels because a littlebit of the money going through is Federal. Take that as , Inc. given. If I were to say you're right, what's thestandard where the Spending Clause is at issue? Whatwords would be used there? And the reason that this isdifficult at the moment for me is because this is not acondition imposed upon spending. You're not saying to theState, we'll give you the transport money if you -- thisis really a Federal law protecting the -- the spending.You may be right in this case, but we're going to have tosay some kind of standard. Should we say it's just whatever would benecessary and proper to protect the object of thespending, which is quite far out because you can spend forthings you don't otherwise have the power to do? Orshould we say something else, or should we say we don'thave to reach that here because if in fact the power wouldbe there under the Commerce Clause anyway, that at leastis good enough and isn't a stretch of the Spending Clausewhere there's a necessary and proper rationale? What inyour view is the proper way to write those words? MR. DREEBEN: Justice Breyer, I think the mostlogical way to write this opinion is to rely on the testthat this Court articulated in through Chief JusticeMarshall with respect to the power under the Necessary andProper Clause. Here the enumerated power that's being , Inc. protected is the spending power. The Necessary and ProperClause was long ago construed to give Congress substantialdeference to pass laws so long as they are conducive tothe end that Congress is trying to achieve and its legitimate. QUESTION: The -- the McCulloch language? Let the end be legitimate -­MR. DREEBEN: That's -- that's correct. That'scorrect, Justice Kennedy. QUESTION: Suppose that -- that to -- to takethe phrase, the clean funnel theory, we thought that thattheory is best sustained under the Commerce Clause. Whatwould be the closest case that we could cite in support ofour position if we were writing under the Commerce Clause?Are there cases in which governmental entities and -- andtheir -- the integrity of the operations are protectedunder the Commerce Clause? Have we ever talked aboutthat? MR. DREEBEN: I can't think, off the top of myhead, Justice Kennedy, of a Commerce Clause case that wasspecifically directed at governmental activity. Ofcourse, this statute is not specifically directed atgovernmental activity. It's directed at any fundrecipient, be it private, Indian tribe, or governmental.So the Court could rely on cases probably like Reno v. , Inc. Condon in which the Court upheld a law that dealt with anitem in commerce, be it in the hands of the Government orin hands of private parties. And of course, United Statesv. Perez did uphold a very broad view of the Congress'power to regulate transactional conduct. QUESTION: No governmental entities in that case, as I recall. MR. DREEBEN: No governmental entities in -- in Perez, but of course, this case doesn't focus ongovernmental entities as such. What it focuses on them is-- it focuses on them in their capacity as administratorsof funds that are paid out under Federal assistanceprograms. It treats them identically to private entitiesthat also receive Federal funds under Federal programs,which is strong evidence that what Congress had in mindhere was ensuring that its purposes and goals under theSpending Clause aren't frustrated by corruption withinwhatever entity it is that happens to be taking the fundsto administer the program. QUESTION: I think some of our -­QUESTION: Is the -- is the Spending Clause -­is it -- is it something new or were the statutes thatwere inadequate, the predecessors of -- what was theconstitutional heading of authority that the predecessorsof -­ , Inc. MR. DREEBEN: Justice Ginsburg, U.S.C.,section , which was the Federal theft statute, wasreally a protection of Federal property, and that probablycould be justified under a variety of enumerated powersunder Article I. U.S.C., section was the Federal briberystatute that primarily focuses on people who are Federalofficials or who are designated to become Federalofficials. And this Court in United States v. Dixsoninterpreted the statute to cover State and local officialswho were administering Federal programs because they wereacting on behalf of the United States. And with respectto that branch of section , although the Court did notaddress the constitutional question in Dixson, I thinkthat the proper grant of authority to analyze it is theNecessary and Proper Clause as applied to the spendingpower because it, like section , criminalizes theactivities of non-U.S. persons because they are engaged inan activity that relates to federally funded programs. So the theory of protecting through criminal lawthe misdeeds of agents that may impair Federal programs orimpair Federal funds is not new. What was new aboutsection was its removal of the impediments thatCongress found in the prior law so that it could have aneffective mechanism to ensure the integrity of its, Inc. programs. The case that is before the Court today is afacial challenge to section , arguing that it is alwaysand everywhere unconstitutional. That submission isimpossible to reconcile with this Court's decision inSalinas v. United States which specifically said that asapplied to the conduct in that case, where there was aconnection to a Federal program, the statute wasconstitutional as applied. What that means is that the court of appeals wasclearly correct in holding that section is notfacially unconstitutional. It leaves open whether thereis an as-applied constitutional challenge to section .No such challenge was brought in this case, and the UnitedStates made a proffer to the district court indicating howthe particular bribery in this case would have had aneffect on Federal funds and Federal programs, making clearthat no such as-applied challenge would have succeeded. So the only way that petitioner can prevail inthis case if this Court is prepared to say thatnotwithstanding its prior decision in Salinas, holdingthat section was constitutional as applied, it nowturns out that section is facially unconstitutionaland can never be applied to anyone anywhere. We submitthat that is incorrect. , Inc. QUESTION: If there were a nexus requirementthat we wrote into the statute -- the hypothetical gets alittle murky at this point -- would -- would juries haveto find that there was a nexus or could the judgeinstruct -­MR. DREEBEN: Judging from the way that thisCourt resolved the Salinas decision, Justice Kennedy, itwould be a constitutional as-applied challenge to beresolved by the Court. This Court in Salinas said thatthe statute was constitutional as applied and there hadbeen no jury finding on any nexus requirement. QUESTION: But in subsequent trials, if we founda nexus requirement, would the juries have to determinethe nexus? MR. DREEBEN: I don't think that they would,Justice Kennedy. Just as in a case like New York v.Ferber where the Court held that child pornography can beoutlawed across the board, the statute is not --QUESTION: Well, but --MR. DREEBEN: It's not invalid on overbreadthgrounds. QUESTION: Yes. MR. DREEBEN: But the Court left open thepossibility that there would be as-applied challenges, andit didn't suggest that those as-applied constitutional, Inc. challenges would raise jury issues. They would insteadraise issues of law for the -­QUESTION: Well, but if Congress in its -- in -­in the statute says there must be some connection withinterstate commerce, then certainly it's a jury issue. And Justice Kennedy's question, as I understoodit, was that supposing the Court were to read in a nexusrequirement, just exactly what Congress might have put in.You say that would not be a jury question then. MR. DREEBEN: I am judging, Chief JusticeRehnquist, by the way that this Court resolved the legalissue in the Salinas case. The Court would have twooptions open to it if it decided, contrary to our arguments today, to read in some sort of a nexus requirement. It could do what the Second and Third Circuits have done, which is, we think incorrectly,superimpose on the statute as an implicit element that hasno textual foundation some sort of a Federal nexus. Now, if the Court did construe section torequire a Federal nexus, that's clearly a jury issue underUnited States v. Gaudin. Every element, be it implicit orexplicit, has to be found by the jury. But alternatively, I understood Justice Kennedyto be suggesting that there could be a constitutionaloverlay to ensure that there was no unconstitutional , Inc. application of section , and if it's treated as a pureconstitutional question, then I think the better readingof this Court's decisions is that it would be a questionof law -­QUESTION: Do you think this Court's decisionshave been consistent on that question? (Laughter.) MR. DREEBEN: I think they have been groping towards consistency. (Laughter.) QUESTION: Let me write that down. Groping towards --(Laughter.) QUESTION: I can -- I can use that in --(Laughter.) QUESTION: Mr. Dreeben, what answer do you giveto the dissenting judge in the Eighth Circuit who said itis now a Federal crime for an auto mechanic to induce apublic high school principal to hire him to teach shopclass by offering free car repair? MR. DREEBEN: Well, so long, Justice Ginsburg,as the statutory valuation elements are met, that thetransaction involves $, or more, which it probablywould, given teacher salaries, then it would be covered bysection , and the Government would have discretion to , Inc. prosecute it. I think what that illustrates is that thebroad prophylactic approach that section takes leadseasily to the manufacturing of hypotheticals that seemattenuated from core Federal interests. And the choice that Congress had before it wasto draft a statute that would go to that degree of breadthbut eliminate impediments that had previously hobbled theenforcement of a law or draft a statute which Congressbelieved was both under-inclusive and would put to thejury perhaps difficult and murky issues of whether therereally was a Federal connection that justified applicationof the statute. And let me give an example because it's a very important, classic example of the way that we use section . Suppose that there is a city council person or amayor or some other official who has responsibilities forsome respect -- in some respects administering a Federalprogram or Federal funds, and he turns out to be engagedin corruption with respect to non-Federal monies and non-Federal programs. The Government wants to prosecute himto ensure that he doesn't begin to widen his field ofoperation and harm the Federal program, but in the factsthat can actually be proved, there's no connection betweenthe Federal program and the offense conduct. Conceivably could a statute be drafted that , Inc. would allow the Government to say that's the kind ofFederal nexus that's covered? Certainly, but there aremany, many hypotheticals where the potential injury toFederal interests is not necessarily going to be easy toarticulate and prove to a jury. As a matter of discretion, the United -­QUESTION: Who -- whose burden is it? I mean,assume we accept your -- your proposition that we shoulduphold it on its face, at least, and that future as-applied challenges will still be allowed. Would it be theburden of the defendant to establish that -- that thisgoes too far, that this is not reasonable protection ofthe Federal monetary interest? MR. DREEBEN: Yes, Justice Scalia. If it's a question of law, is the statute unconstitutional as applied, then the defendant should have the burden of establishing that. But I understood Justice Ginsburg'shypothetical to raise the question what if Congress haddrafted a narrower statute that had some sort of anoffense nexus element. Then we'd have to prove it up. The United States Attorneys Manual does directprosecutors to use in cases where there's asubstantial and identifiable Federal interest. So whatyou have here is a combination of Congress saying we needa statute that's adequate to vindicate Federal interests , Inc. and prior efforts to draft narrower ones have frustratedthat goal. We're going to draft a broader statute. Andthen the Federal executive branch uses its discretion toprosecute cases that do, indeed, pose a real threat toFederal interests. Now, that's as a matter of discretion.It's not as a matter of constitutional law, and it's notas a matter of what the statute provides. QUESTION: Well, then why should we take thatinto consideration deciding the question before us? MR. DREEBEN: It's not relevant, strictlyspeaking, to the constitutional question. What it isrelevant to is why it was rational for Congress to draft asomewhat broader statute without fearing that, by virtueof having given the executive branch this power, Statecriminal law would be thoroughly swamped, I believe as oneof the dissenting opinions said. QUESTION: But what if you have a new executivecoming in who is really hot on this subject and says wewant to prosecute every case we can under it? MR. DREEBEN: Then I'll have to withdraw thisstatement. (Laughter.) QUESTION: Or an even more realistichypothetical is the United States Attorney in Chicago orNew York, who are not always, shall I say, responsive to , Inc. the directives of central justice, bringing a prosecutionagainst a political opponent that has really no connectionwith a Federal interest. That might happen. MR. DREEBEN: Justice Scalia, I often say thatthe only way that we get uniformity in Federal criminallaw enforcement is from a decision by this Court. If the Court has no further questions. QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. Dreeben. MR. DREEBEN: Thank you. QUESTION: Mr. Birrell, you have minutesremaining. REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF ANDREW S. BIRRELL ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER MR. BIRRELL: Thank you, Your Honor. Turning first to the discussion about Salinas,Salinas did not decide the issue presented in this case.The constitutionality of the statute was not before theCourt in Salinas. Salinas was a question of statutoryinterpretation. What the Court appeared to do was toconduct a harmless error review because theconstitutionality had not been raised in the briefs, wasnot in the cert petition, and it does not impede ourfacial challenge. I think that this -- this -­QUESTION: You -- you think Salinas, had the , Inc. constitutional been raised, would have -- should have comeout the other way. MR. BIRRELL: I think that if the constitutionalissue had been raised in Salinas, it would have come outthe other way, yes. I think as well that if I could direct the Courtto page of our brief, that this will respond to thediscussion about the element, that this is an analysisabout the element in Lopez. We would submit the samewould apply here. There are many noncommercial applications ofthis statute, for example, bribery regarding civil rightslaw. So I don't think the Commerce Clause is -- is theanswer. Furthermore, in -- (a)() doesn't evenrequire any actual recipient corruption because the thirdparty to the funding contract under (a)() can -- canoffer a bribe to an absolutely incorruptible official andyet still be charged with a Federal crime. The -- the overreaching question in this case,Your Honors, is that Federal power must have judiciallyenforceable limits and this statute ignores them and isunconstitutional in every instance. Thank you. CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: Thank you, Mr. , Inc. Birrell. The case is submitted. (Whereupon, at : a.m., the case in theabove-entitled matter was submitted.) , Inc. 