 IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XUNITED STATES, Petitioner ::V. : No. - BILLY JO LARA. :- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XWashington, D.C.Wednesday, January , The above-entitled matter came on for oralargument before the Supreme Court of the United States at: a.m.APPEARANCES:EDWIN S. KNEEDLER, ESQ., Deputy Solicitor General,Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; onbehalf of the Petitioner. ALEXANDER F. REICHERT, ESQ., Grand Forks, North Dakota; onbehalf of the Respondent. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY C O N T E N T SORAL ARGUMENT OF EDWIN S. KNEEDLER, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioner ALEXANDER F. REICHERT, ESQ.On behalf of the Respondent REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OFEDWIN S. KNEEDLER, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioner PAGE th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY P R O C E E D I N G S(: a.m.)CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: We'll hear argumentnow in No. -, the United States v. Billy Jo Lara.Mr. Kneedler.ORAL ARGUMENT OF EDWIN S. KNEEDLERON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERMR. KNEEDLER: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court: years ago in the Duro decision this Courtheld that under the state of Indian law, as it then stood,and Indian tribe could not prosecute an Indian who was nota member of that tribe. The Court recognized, though,that its decision might create a jurisdictional gap onmany reservations, but the Court concluded that if thepresent jurisdictional regime proves insufficient to meetthe needs of reservation law enforcement, the proper bodyto address that concern is Congress, which has plenarypower over Indian affairs.Congress responded immediately to this Court'sdecision. It -- it conducted an extensive inquiry andheard hearings about the consequences of the Court'sdecision and heard strong expressions of concern by manyIndian tribes, by the Federal Government, and by numerousStates about the law enforcement vacuum that would be th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY created over many misdemeanor offenses on Indianreservations. And there was widespread support forCongress to restore the power to Indian tribes to exercisetheir sovereign power to prosecute non-member Indians.QUESTION: Why didn't -- why didn't they extendit to non-Indians? I mean, if it's a problem when a -- anon-member Indian commits an offense on an Indianreservation, why isn't it an equivalent problem when a --a white man commits the same crime on an Indianreservation?MR. KNEEDLER: I think the answer lies in -- inthe longstanding jurisdictional regime on Indianreservations. Going back to , the general Indiancrimes statute has authorized prosecutions by the FederalGovernment over crimes committed by non-Indians, includingmisdemeanor crimes, and so there was not a jurisdictionalvoid. The difficulty came -- the -- the most acutedifficulty came from the fact that that statute, againsince the earliest times, had -- has exempted crimescommitted by one Indian against the person or property ofanother.QUESTION: Well, why couldn't they have changedthat? They could have solved the problem by simplytreating non-member Indians the same way they treat non-Indians. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY MR. KNEEDLER: Congress could have done so, butCongress, with the plenary power over Indian affairs,chose -- decided that the proper course or the mostappropriate course was to have that jurisdiction exercisedby the Indian tribes. And Congress heard considerable --considerable evidence that that power had long, in fact,been exercised by Indian tribes over other Indians whowere not members of the particular tribe.QUESTION: What's --QUESTION: There's some ambiguity about whatIndian refers to. Is it -- must it be someone who isenrolled in an Indian tribe or can it be anyone who is thechild of Indian parents?MR. KNEEDLER: It -- generally, it has beenunderstood to require a tribal affiliation. First of all,the definition under -- under the Indian Civil Rights Actfor tribal power, Congress adopted the same meaning ofIndian that is applied under the Federal criminal statutesfor the purpose of having the two mesh completely.QUESTION: Yes, but what is that? What is thatdefinition?MR. KNEEDLER: And under that, obviously,someone who is an enrolled -- formally enrolled memberwould be an Indian, but as this Court pointed out infootnote of its Antelope decision, the -- that provision th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY has not been construed to require that strictly, thatordinarily someone who is an Indian and has a tribalaffiliation and is recognized by the tribe is alsoregarded as an Indian.In this case, though, we have a situation wheresomeone who is an enrolled member of another tribe. Soquestions about the -- about the -- how the statute shouldbe construed or applied in situations where there's notone -- someone who's formally a member are -- are notpresent in this case.QUESTION: Mr. Kneedler, is it the case that theBill of Rights is -- has not been thought applicable tocriminal defendants who are members of the tribe in atribal court or to non-tribal Indian -- non-tribal memberIndians?MR. KNEEDLER: Yes. Under this Court'sdecision, this --QUESTION: In -- in tribal court.MR. KNEEDLER: Yes. This Court's decision inTalton v. Mayes said that the Fifth Amendment did notapply to the exercise of powers by Indian tribes, andthat's been understood to apply to --QUESTION: Would that be perhaps one reason whyCongress didn't go ahead and subject non-Indians to tribalprosecution? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY MR. KNEEDLER: Well, it -- it may be, but -- butit's important to recognize what -- what Congress has alsodone here was to enact the Indian Civil Rights Act whichextends to Indian tribes many of the requirements of theBill of Rights.QUESTION: But not all.MR. KNEEDLER: Not all of them, but Congress in examined the question of the -- of the rights of --of Indians and others subject to tribal jurisdiction and-- and applied the -- the provisions of the -- of theIndian Civil Rights Act. So there -- the -- the --QUESTION: Should we consider in this case thedue process and equal protection arguments that are --MR. KNEEDLER: I don't -- I don't believe theyare before the Court. What was before the -- those --those questions go to what restraints are on the tribeitself when it's exercising its own power. That was notthe basis of the court of appeals decision in this case. The court of appeals decision was really on the separateground of what happens when you have, first, the tribeexercising its sovereign power and then the United Statesexercising power after that under the Double JeopardyClause. QUESTION: Well, I suppose under one view of thecase -- and it's -- it's not your view -- if this were th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY deemed to be a delegated power, then the absence or the --the presence of obligations under the Bill of Rights wouldbecome very important. MR. KNEEDLER: Well, I -- it depends what onemeans by delegation. The word delegation is -- is used ina variety of ways. I mean, for -- for example, it'scommon to speak of Congress delegating power to anexecutive agency to carry out a certain function, but whenthe executive agency does this, it's not exercisingcongressional power. It's exercising power that Congressin its plenary authority has -- has conferred on theexecutive branch to --QUESTION: But -- but it --MR. KNEEDLER: -- to then execute those laws.QUESTION: But it is exercising the power of theUnited States as distinct from the power of some othersovereign. And -- and the issue in this case is whetherthe -- as I understand it, is -- is whether the tribe isexercising its own power or the power of the UnitedStates. MR. KNEEDLER: Right. I -- I was using that byanalogy to say that the word delegate is -- is often used,including in this Court's opinions I think, in a -- in asomewhat looser sense in terms of -- of authorizingsomeone else to act. But I think -- I think -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY QUESTION: Well, if it's authorized --exercising its own power, how then can Congress make theBill of Rights applicable. As -- as a condition to theexercise of sovereignty? Is that the way it works?MR. KNEEDLER: Yes. And that's -- I thinkthat's exactly what Congress did in the Indian CivilRights Act. It -- it require -- and -- and this Courtsaid in Wheeler and has said in numerous other decisionsthat Congress has plenary power over the exercise of atribe's own sovereign powers. And what Congress did inthe Indian Civil Rights Act was precisely to regulatethat.QUESTION: Mr. Kneedler, may I raise the -- thepoint that is -- is the greatest trouble for me so -- soyou perhaps could address that? Because it follows fromwhat Justice Kennedy has raised. As I understand what we held -- forget ourlanguage about delegation for a minute. As I understandwhat we held in Oliphant, which we followed in Duro, wasthat the very concept of -- of this dependent orsubordinate sovereignty that tribes are -- are understoodto have, the way we look at Indian issues, is inconsistentwith the exercise of tribal jurisdiction over a -- a non-member. Whether that notion of subordinate or -- ordependent sovereignty is constitutional or common law th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY doesn't really matter. As long as we're going to havethat concept, that concept is inconsistent with theexercise of the tribe's own sovereign jurisdiction over a-- a non-tribal member.If we are going to stick with that concept then,it seems to me that we have got to understand the statutein question here as a statute that confers Federal poweron the tribe as distinct from one that restores thetribe's sovereign power because the tribe can't have thesovereign power as long as we are going to understand thattribe to have this subordinate sovereignty. Andtherefore, for me the concepts that we're using prettymuch force the conclusion that the -- that the powerthat's being exercised is Federal not Indian. Could you comment on -- on that analysis? MR. KNEEDLER: Yes. I -- I think there -- thereare several responses to that point. First of all, I think it matters a lot whetherone views the limitations on tribal power as mandated bythe Constitution or as a product of Federal common law. And in -- and --QUESTION: Well, it may have a great deal to dowith whether we can change our conceptualization aboutdependent sovereignty, but as long as we keep thatconceptualization, it seems to me we've got to accept the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY conclusion that -- that I suggested.MR. KNEEDLER: No. I -- I -- with respect, Idon't think that's correct because I think if it -- if itis not -- if this conception is not constitutionallymandated, then Congress has the authority, the plenaryauthority, over Indian affairs to regulate, to modifytribal jurisdiction. And -- and in fact, I think that --that --QUESTION: Okay, but if it does so, we have toaccept the -- if we're going to follow that route, we willhave to accept the conclusion that the whole concept ofdependent sovereignty has -- has been modified in -- insome way because you can't have it both ways.MR. KNEEDLER: No. I -- I believe that's --that's an expression of the dependency or a manifestationof the dependency, not in derogation of it, becausedependent means that your ability to exercise authority --in this case, the Indian tribe is always subject to theoverriding powers of the Federal Government. And whatthis Court said precisely in the --QUESTION: Well, if that -- if that were all wemeant in Oliphant, we would have said the -- the FederalGovernment could take away this power by statute. Wedidn't say the Federal Government could take away thepower by statute. We said it is gone by virtue of the -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY the sovereignty relationship. MR. KNEEDLER: But it -- if -- if one looks backat the Oliphant decision, what the Court there describedits -- its undertaking was was essentially a -- a -- anarticulation of what it called Indian law which is a -- acombination of judge-made law but against the backdrop oftreaties and statutes. Those treaties and statutes arenot themselves embodying constitutionally mandated rules. They are the product of the political branches. Theysometimes don't answer precise questions, and this Courtis required to articulate judicial principles as best itcan against the backdrop of those principles. But becausethose principles themselves are traced to treaties andstatutes, it must be up to -- Congress must have theauthority to modify those rules, and that's consistentwith its plenary power over Indian affairs.What this Court said in the Montana decision,which -- which has been identified as the path-markingdecision over -- concerning jurisdiction over non-tribalmembers, was what tribes lost by virtue of their dependentstatus was the power independently to determine theirexternal relations. This is not what we have here --QUESTION: Well, isn't -- isn't that what we'retalking about -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY MR. KNEEDLER: No. No, it isn't --QUESTION: -- when we talk about sovereignpower?MR. KNEEDLER: This is not a unilateralassertion of tribal power. This Court held in -- inOliphant and Duro, by looking at the -- at the backdrop of-- of statutory enactments, that its power had beenlimited, but -- and the tribe did not unilaterallyovercome that. What Congress did was lift the limits sothat the tribe -- the tribe would then be authorized toexercise sovereign power that it previously had -- hadhad. And it's in that -- it's directly analogous totwo important examples that I think are very instructivehere. One is that Constitution itself in the CommerceClause has been held to, of its own force, preempt Statelaws in the interstate commerce and also in the IndianCommerce Clause area. But Congress can, in the exerciseof its authority over commerce under either one, liftthose restrictions and authorize States to regulate inareas they otherwise could not do.QUESTION: And that has always been thought tobe a great anomaly that a constitutional requirement couldbe eliminated by a Federal statute. I -- I hope you'renot urging that as -- as a rule which should be followed. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY MR. KNEEDLER: No, but -- but the point is thatin that situation, even when the Constitution itself has,as a matter of constitutional law, limited Stateauthority, Congress can lift that. The other -- the other example --QUESTION: Well, let's -- let's apply thatacross the board then. I guess Congress can lift theFifth Amendment?MR. KNEEDLER: No. It's --QUESTION: Clearly you're not going to urge --MR. KNEEDLER: No. It's --QUESTION: Congress can lift the Double JeopardyClause? MR. KNEEDLER: No. I'm -- I'm not speaking ofBill -- Bill of Rights provisions. I'm speaking ofCongress' Article I power.QUESTION: There's -- there's a distinctionbetween the Bill of Rights and the rest of theConstitution. MR. KNEEDLER: Well, under -- under this Court'sdecision -- decisions, Congress has been authorized toallow States to regulate in areas it -- it would otherwisenot be able to, and when it does so, it's exercising itsown sovereign power, not power delegated by the FederalGovernment. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY The other -- the other instructive example isPublic Law . Since the outset of the Constitution,really by the -- by carrying forward arrangements of -- inIndian law prior to the adoption of the Constitution,States have not been able to exercise jurisdiction overmatters involving Indians in Indian country absent anaffirmative authorization by Congress. In Public Law Congress lifted those limitations and authorized tribes toexercise jurisdiction over Indians and others in Indiancountry.QUESTION: Authorized States.MR. KNEEDLER: Pardon me?QUESTION: Authorized States. MR. KNEEDLER: Excuse me. Authorized States. And in doing so, those States are not exercisingdelegated Federal power. Congress lifted a barrier to theexercise by States of their own sovereign power toprosecute according to their laws.QUESTION: So in saying that, what you're doing-- is what you're doing taking the word dependent indomestic dependent nation and saying that Congress has adegree of leeway to define what is and what is notencompassed by the word dependent so that if Congresswants to, it can say that whereas previously an exerciseof pre-, your Indian jurisdiction, because they could th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY have, you know -- which was removed by the word dependentis not removed --MR. KNEEDLER: Yes. QUESTION: -- because Congress -- Congress canredefine the term dependent? MR. KNEEDLER: I -- I agree with your result. I -- I think conceptually what I would say is dependentdefines the relationship between the tribe and theNational Government --QUESTION: Yes.MR. KNEEDLER: -- in this case Congress. And --and Congress in the -- in the exercise of its superiorsovereignty is -- is defining the contours of thedependent sovereign's authority. So it -- it is amanifestation of the dependent relationship. QUESTION: So when you look at Duro, it -- itsaid that what it found the exercise of criminaljurisdiction inconsistent with was the notion ofdependency in the phrase, domestic dependent nation.MR. KNEEDLER: Yes. And --QUESTION: And -- and therefore -- and -- andthere -- so Congress has the authority to say no, at leastas to future, it is not inconsistent.MR. KNEEDLER: Yes.QUESTION: Is that right? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY QUESTION: And -- and since this has nothing todo with prior Indian tribal power but simply witharrangements that Congress chooses to adopt, itnecessarily follows that Congress could provide thatanyone in this room, whether an Indian -- whether anenrolled Indian or not, could be subjected to trial by a-- a tribal court and then subjected to a second trial,despite the Double Jeopardy Clause, by a court of theUnited States. Right? Congress could provide that.MR. KNEEDLER: Yes. I -- I think that's right. And --QUESTION: I -- I find it hard to think thatthat's all that the Double Jeopardy Clause means.MR. KNEEDLER: Well, the -- this Court held inWheeler that prosecution by an Indian tribe of a -- of amember of the tribe in that situation, followed by aprosecution by the Federal Government for what would --the same conduct, was not the same offense because theultimate authority to prosecute derived from differentsources. And we think the same --QUESTION: But derived from inherent tribalauthority, which had not been taken away. What'sdifferent here is that it had been taken away and wasgiven back, and it's hard to decide -- it's hard toconsider that inherent tribal authority, even though the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY -- the statute refers to it that way.MR. KNEEDLER: Well, it -- I -- I think byinherent what the Court meant in both Oliphant and -- andin Duro was original sovereignty that has continuedunlimited or unrestricted down to the present day. Inother words, it -- it has been -- it has been allowed tocontinue, and in that sense it's inherent in being --QUESTION: That provides a limitation. Thatprovides a limitation to -- you know, to jurisdiction overthe -- over the tribal members, and that was a veryimportant limitation. Now you're saying that limitationdoesn't exist.MR. KNEEDLER: Well, I -- I --QUESTION: It doesn't matter what has beenallowed to -- to continue down to the present day. Congress can change all of that and permit jurisdictionover non-tribal members and, it necessarily follows,permit jurisdiction over non-Indians without violating theDouble Jeopardy Clause. MR. KNEEDLER: If -- if we -- if we look at thereality of the nature of the prosecutions here, this was aprosecution brought by tribal officials in a triballyconstituted court enforcing provisions of tribal law, nottitle , under a tribal constitution. That --QUESTION: Are you saying that Congress could th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY require the trial of non-Indians before a -- an Indiantribal court?MR. KNEEDLER: Yes. I -- I believe the -- thisCourt's decision in -- in Oliphant says so in severalrespects. What the Court -- in several locations. Whatthe Court said in Oliphant is that the -- the tribesnecessarily lost their dependent -- excuse me -- by virtueof their dependent status, lost their ability to prosecutenon-Indians except in a manner acceptable to Congress. Sothe -- the Court necessarily assumed that Congress couldrevest this authority in the Indian tribes.QUESTION: This is maybe -- it's veryinteresting. Suppose -- I would think on your approachthen that the rights that the individual tribe gets is afunction of the Due Process Clause. And -- and is thereany basis? After all, Indian tribal members are personswithin the United States to whom the Due Process Clause isapplicable. Imagine a tribe that does not give youcounsel in a criminal trial. That could happen. Allright? Now, is there a basis under the Due Process Clausefor distinguishing between whether the defendant in such acase is, A, a member of that tribe; B, a non-tribe memberbut an Indian; C, a non-Indian?MR. KNEEDLER: Well, several things. First ofall, the -- the Due Process Clause of the Fifth Amendment th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY under this Court's decision in Talton probably would notapply of its own force to the tribe. But what does applyis the Indian Civil Rights Act. What -- Congress filledthat void by -- by -- as a statutory matter requiring thatcertain rights be --QUESTION: Well, the statute isn't going to helpin terms of my question because I'm interested inCongress' power.MR. KNEEDLER: Yes. I -- I think --QUESTION: And -- and maybe we don't have toreach that in this case.MR. KNEEDLER: I -- I think --QUESTION: And maybe the answer to this casemakes no difference in respect to that.MR. KNEEDLER: I -- I think -- I think in askinga due process question, you might be asking -- aprocedural due process question, you might be asking anequal protection type question. QUESTION: I'm asking a question in respect toright to counsel, for example. MR. KNEEDLER: Right -- right to counsel is not-- is not expressly guaranteed by the Indian Civil RightsAct. If there is a particular prosecution that is foundto violate fundamental fairness because of the absence ofcounsel, the Indian Civil Rights Act would -- would th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY provide a vehicle for that argument. QUESTION: Well, except -- except with respectto the Indian Civil Rights Act, you can -- you can -- andI think this solves due process problems. You -- you canassert the maxim of volenti non fit injuria. You -- youare not subject to -- to this kind of trial unless youchoose to be an enrolled member of the tribe. You canwithdraw from that at any time.MR. KNEEDLER: Yes. QUESTION: But to now extend the Government'spower to subject people to this kind of trial beyondmembers of the -- of the tribe that -- that has the tribalcourt to members of other tribes and, as you necessarilyacknowledge, even to non-Indians, that's a -- that's astep I'm -- I'm not prepared to contemplate.MR. KNEEDLER: Well, with -- first of all, withrespect to members of tribes other than the prosecutingtribe, Congress in the exercise of its plenary authorityover tribes we think certainly should have the power toregulate the relationship among tribes, tribes with eachother, and relationships of tribes and their respectivemembers with each other.QUESTION: Well, would it --MR. KNEEDLER: That's what Congress has donehere. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY QUESTION: Would it be a defense, say, tosomeone charged with a crime in Wisconsin to say volentinon fit -- you move to Minnesota. They don't treat you --MR. KNEEDLER: No, it would not. And that's --that is another -- there -- there are really two differentquestions. One, can someone be subjected to thejurisdiction of a court when he's not participating in the-- in the process there? And that happens all the timewhen people are prosecuted in another jurisdiction.There's a separate question of -- of whatprocedural protections would be afforded in such a trial,and that's where the Indian Civil Rights Act steps in.QUESTION: Mr. Kneedler, just to bring it backto this case, as I understand it, there was no due processor equal protection challenge by Mr. Lara. He'scontesting the second proceeding.MR. KNEEDLER: That's -- that's correct. Infact, it's a necessary -- he has to accept the validity ofhis -- of his prior prosecution and -- and leave itstanding in order to --QUESTION: Because if it's not valid, then he'sbeing prosecuted for the first time.MR. KNEEDLER: Right. That -- that's correct. QUESTION: Yes, but all these questions are veryrelevant to whether we should accept your -- or -- or the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY Government's assertion of what Congress can do. Those --if -- if your -- your proposal raises all of these seriousconstitutional questions, we're less inclined, it seems tome, to adopt that proposal.MR. KNEEDLER: Well, there -- there's I thinkanother important point to be made about the nature ofCongress' powers in this area. To say that an Indiantribe could only prosecute a non-member -- a non-memberIndian through the exercise of delegated Federal powerwould itself be a -- a substantial constitutional anomaly.I think it's important to -- to consider thescope of Congress' plenary powers within the framework ofthe structure of the Constitution itself. The --QUESTION: But -- but -- so -- so what you'resaying is that if the Court has very substantial concernsover the Government's proposition that within theterritorial United States a non-constitutional entity canbe allowed to try a United States citizen, if we haveconcerns about that, you're giving us no ability to draw aline so that you can prevail in this case. You are -- itseems to me that you are conceding, by your laststatement, that if we rule in favor of your position, itmust necessarily apply to non-Indians.MR. KNEEDLER: No, I -- I --QUESTION: And this is an astounding th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY proposition.MR. KNEEDLER: I did not -- I did not mean tosay -- to say that. I mean, first of all, I thinkOliphant contemplates that. What rights would attach is-- is a separate question.But I -- but I do think that there is a distinctauthority for Congress to regulate or to permit a tribe toexercise jurisdiction over members of other tribes. Thisis a power that has historically been left to tribes bythe Federal statutory regime in Indian country since down to the present time. There is still an exception --QUESTION: Yes, but that was before Indians werecitizens of the United States. MR. KNEEDLER: But -- no. That has continued upto the present time. There is still an exception in thestatutory regime for tribes to --QUESTION: Yes, but one wonders if you go beyondmembers of the tribe itself to outsiders, whether thatdistinction between citizens of the United States isvalid.MR. KNEEDLER: I -- I believe it is. In -- inDuro itself, the Court said that citizenship does notdetract from Congress' plenary power over Indian affairs.The -- the last point I wanted to make and thenI would like to reserve the -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY QUESTION: But that was -- that was not in thecontext of regulating non-Indians.MR. KNEEDLER: No. Here we're talking about --this case involves non-member Indians, and as I said, theability of Congress to regulate relationships betweentribes and -- and their members would seem to be at thecore of the power. And as this Court has said in its federalismcases, it would be a -- a mixing of sovereignty to regardthe States as mere agents of the Federal Government. Theyare separate sovereigns, and we think the same is true --QUESTION: Yes, but they are also not dependentsovereigns.MR. KNEEDLER: That's --QUESTION: I mean, there's an entirely differentconceptualization involved.MR. KNEEDLER: But again, in our -- in our view,the dependency describes Congress' power to regulate andlimit and prescribe the rights available in tribal courts.If I may reserve the balance of my time.QUESTION: Very well, Mr. Kneedler.Mr. Reichert, we'll hear from you.ORAL ARGUMENT OF ALEXANDER F. REICHERTON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTMR. REICHERT: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY please the Court:When Congress amended the Indian Civil rightsAct in response to this Court's invitation in Duro,Congress exceeded its power by overruling this -- thisCourt's determination on the limits of tribal sovereignty. The tribal power that Congress can give and take awaycannot by definition be a sovereign power. The tribalcourt, acting without its own sovereign authority,prosecuted Billy Jo Lara using this Federal authority, andhis subsequent Federal prosecution, therefore, double --violated the Double Jeopardy Clause. QUESTION: If we take your approach then intrying to carry out what was the will of Congress, I thinkwe'd have to say that the first prosecution doesn't countbecause the one thing is -- seems to me pretty clear fromthis record, that Congress did not want to have asituation where there was a delegation of Federalauthority. The whole idea was that you would have theFederal -- the possibility of the Federal prosecution andthe tribal prosecution. I -- I think that it's -- it'sinescapably clear that that's what Congress wanted to do,to preserve the possibility of a U.S. attorneyprosecution.So if you're right, then I think making the --the bottom line what would Congress do if it couldn't th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY accomplish what it set out to accomplish, one would say,well, all bets are off and not adopt your position thatCongress chose to delegate Federal authority when it seemsto me pretty clear that it didn't. MR. REICHERT: Your Honor, I believe thatCongress' intent was clear on two points. The first pointwas that they were attempting to restore tribalsovereignty, which they cannot do by its definition. Butthey were also clearly trying to close a jurisdictionalgap, a jurisdictional loophole.Under the Government's contention, the entirestatute should be thrown out and neither one of thoseclear intents from Congress can be saved. But under the-- under what the Eighth Circuit did and under what I'masking this Court to do, the -- one of those intents canbe saved and that is --QUESTION: But you can't do that. You can't --you can't achieve the end by a means other than the meanswhich Congress provided to that end. It did, indeed,intend to close a gap, but the means which it selected toclose that gap was the reconferral -- the attemptedreconferral of inherent sovereignty upon the Indiantribes. There's no delegation language in that. Theyclearly chose the means to the end of -- of covering thegap, the means of reconferring sovereignty. And if that th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY is invalid, then the statute is invalid. We -- we have nopower to transmogrify it into a -- a delegation when itclearly is not that. MR. REICHERT: And if this Court was todetermine that this is a -- that this is not a delegationand that this Court determines that the statute cannot besaved, then Mr. Lara still was prosecuted in the tribalcourt. He was still prosecuted under color of law. Heserved days in the tribal jail on this offense, days total. The tribal court believed it was actingproperly. It was told by Congress. Congress is the bodywhich tells the tribe what to do.QUESTION: Do you -- do you have authority forthe proposition that if you're tried by a court withoutjurisdiction, it's nevertheless sufficient to invokedouble jeopardy, if we have to reach that here? Do youhave authority for that or is that a novel proposition? MR. REICHERT: I don't believe that it's novel. There is -- this Court has not ruled that a court withoutjurisdiction can, therefore, subject some -- can subjectsomebody to initial jeopardy in the double jeopardy sense.But the Fifth Amendment clearly -- the FifthAmendment does not protect against dual investigations ordual prosecutions. It protects against dual punishment, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY and Mr. Lara has been punished. He served days injail. Congress can't now --QUESTION: What if -- what if he'd beenprosecuted in France and served days there and then hewas tried here? Would that be double jeopardy?MR. REICHERT: I don't believe so, Your Honor. QUESTION: Well, and -- and furthermore, youhave a habeas remedy after the first -- after the firsttrial to -- to object to the sentence.Getting back to the -- to the point, why is it-- let's assume for the moment -- it's just an assumption-- that the -- that the tribes had as a historical matterthe sovereign authority to try non-member Indians and thatCongress took that away. Could Congress then give itback?MR. REICHERT: Congress can -- could always giveit back under a delegation. Congress always has the powerto --QUESTION: Why -- why would it be a delegation? Why couldn't they say we -- we define the scope of Indiansovereignty and we -- we ratchet it up and we ratchet itdown?MR. REICHERT: What Congress takes away andCongress gives back is a power of Congress. It can't be areaffirmation of a tribal sovereign power. That which -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY QUESTION: May -- may I interrupt you on that? Supposing they had a -- a procedure for electing theirchiefs and Congress said that's unfair to women orsomething, so you can't do it anymore, and then yearslater just repealed the statute. Would they then havedelegated the power to elect the chiefs the way they didit for years?MR. REICHERT: I think technically they would,but in that situation it's -- it's not so importantwhether they're using a delegated power or a sovereignpower because this case presents unique facts wheresovereignty becomes of paramount importance because ofthis Court's adoption of the dual sovereignty doctrine. In many instances, Congress delegates authority and it --the importance of whether it be a delegation or whether itbe a -- a re-recognition or a restoration of inherenttribal sovereignty is not nearly as important. And inthat case, I think it would be a delegation of Federalpower, but I don't think it would affect the election ofthe tribal chairmen.QUESTION: Mr. Reichert --QUESTION: They could do it with Puerto Rico,couldn't they? Sorry. With Puerto Rico, can't Congress,for example, define the sovereign relation between theUnited States and the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico. I th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY would have thought it had considerable power there. Andif it can do it there, why can't it do it here?I mean, you could enter into a treaty changingthe nature of the sovereign power and the House ofRepresentatives and the Senate have basically taken tothemselves through statute the treaty-making authority. And so what's -- why is this any different from -- fromredefining the nature of the sovereign relationshipbetween, say, Guam, Puerto Rico, a whole -- you know,those entities that are not States?MR. REICHERT: When Congress acts with -- as itacts towards Puerto Rico, it can use its treaty powers andnot be conferring sovereign power on Puerto Rico. AndPuerto Rico is considerably --QUESTION: Suppose it does. Suppose it says thecommonwealth, which is a totally uncertain concept,henceforth means A, B, C, D, and E. All right? Now --now, whether that's wise or not wise I have no idea, but Idon't see anything in the Constitution that would stopCongress from doing that. And if there is nothing there,why is there here where, in fact -- I don't want to repeatmyself.But my understanding of this is that over theyears Congress has, through legislation -- or Congress haschanged the making of the treaty to define the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY relationship into a situation where we define therelationship with the Indian tribes through legislation. QUESTION: What about Philippines? QUESTION: At least I don't see why they --QUESTION: I assume we did precisely that withthe Philippines, and I -- I guess Justice Breyer issuggesting that we can simply revoke Philippineindependence, which we -- which we graciously gave them,and now, since it was all done through the treaty power,we can just revoke it.QUESTION: But this is the opposite. I supposewe could --MR. REICHERT: To address that, Puerto Rico isdifferent than a State and Puerto Rico and States are verydifferent from tribes. Tribes are dependent nations. They are a unique body within our constitutionalframework. And when Congress acts in relation to tribes,they can act in a number of different ways. In fact,Congress can completely take away a tribe's sovereignty,but it cannot restore that sovereignty once it's -- it hastaken it away. The reason that this -- the reason thatthis is --QUESTION: Can I just -- it seems to me that's acritical part of the case where the -- supposing the tribe th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY had a -- a criminal statute and saying you cannot cuttrees above , feet on the mountains because that'ssacred land or something like that. And Congress decidedthey wanted to build a road up there, so they preemptedthe -- the Indian statute and said we cannot enforce thatstatute. Then after they built the road, they decided,well, they'd let them go back to the way they did, andthey said we repeal the preempting statute. Now, wouldthat be a delegation of power to -- to protect thosereligious grounds, or would that be just a restoration ofa preexisting sovereign power? MR. REICHERT: I believe that that would be adelegation of Congress' power. Once it has takensomething away, it cannot give it back. And powers whichare -- which are sovereign cannot be defined as sovereignwhen --QUESTION: Where -- where do you get theauthority for that one-way ratcheting when we've said thatCongress has plenary power over the tribes? What opinionof this Court do you look to for that proposition?MR. REICHERT: I would look to Oliphant or toUnited States v. Sioux Nation or the Alcea Band of theTillamook Tribe wherein this Court said Congress' plenarypower is not absolute. Congress -- this Court has oftensaid Congress has plenary power, but that plenary power is th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY not absolute. And one of the -- one of the most importantlimitations on Congress' power with regard to Indiantribes is that it must be subject to the limitations ofthe Constitution. QUESTION: Okay. Mr. Reichert, may I interruptyou there? Because I -- I think -- I think there are twodifferent arguments in play in -- in what's going on here,and I thought you had started out with one and now youseem to be going to a different one.One argument is Congress didn't take away thispower over -- the tribal power to -- to prosecute non-tribal members. There's no act of Congress that said theycan't do that. The reason they can't do that is there's asovereignty relationship. There's no act of Congress thatarticulated that sovereignty relationship. It's just theway we understand things. The tribes are dependentsovereigns.And on that theory -- that's where I -- Ithought you were coming from originally, and -- and onthat theory, Congress can't restore it because it can'tchange that relationship, or at least it hasn't changedthat relationship of -- of dependent sovereignty.A second way that -- that is being explored hereis -- is on the assumption that Congress by some act tookaway the sovereignty to prosecute non-tribal members and th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY now wants to give it back.I'm not sure what the answer should be in thesecond case, but I thought your argument depended on thefirst case or the first example. Is -- is that correct?MR. REICHERT: The --QUESTION: In other words, it's -- it's thesovereign relationship rather than an act of Congress thattakes away that is crucial for understanding the issuehere.MR. REICHERT: If I could just -- it's thisCourt that said that that -- that recognized -- and itsrole is to say what the law is -- looked at the dependentnature of the Indian tribes and said this does not exist. This power to prosecute --QUESTION: We said that in Oliphant, among otherthings.MR. REICHERT: Correct. QUESTION: Yes, okay.QUESTION: So it's a power always to take away,but never to give back that's --MR. REICHERT: Yes, but Congress can always giveback using their plenary power. Congress can alwaysdelegate powers back to the tribes. It simply cannot makesovereign that which is not. That which is --QUESTION: But do we -- I'm sorry. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY QUESTION: Can I interrupt --QUESTION: Do we -- we have to get --QUESTION: What transformed the tribes fromindependent sovereigns to dependent sovereigns was not adecision of this Court and the act of Congress. It wasthe acts of the legislature and they took over a lot ofthings that were previously independent sovereignty of thetribes. And if you go back a couple hundred years, theyclearly had their own inherent power to try non-members. Maybe they lost it in the change in the relationshipbetween the United States and the tribe, but that's not asa result of an act of Congress or a decision of thisCourt. It's the result of historical events. MR. REICHERT: It's a result, Your Honor, oftheir accepting the dependent -- accepting the protectionand the benefits and the burdens of the United States. And that boils down to the essential question which is whohas the -- who has the final authority on what the limitson inherent sovereignty are. Is it this body or is itCongress? And --QUESTION: Essentially the trouble I have withyour case is that it depends on making a distinctionbetween the status of -- of Indian sovereignty whichhasn't yet been taken away but which exists totally the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY whim of Congress. And that, you say, is not -- is -- thatdoes not allow the Double Jeopardy Clause to be invokedbecause -- I don't know what. You call that sovereignty,that dependent sovereignty? But you say, however, ifCongress acts to take it away, then it can't give it back.It seems to me in both cases whatever power theIndian tribe has is power that exists at the pleasure ofthe United States, and I don't know why in -- the one caseis any better than the other as far as the Double JeopardyClause is concerned. Whatever power they exercise, theyexercise because we let them exercise it. Isn't thatright?MR. REICHERT: That's right, and --QUESTION: Well, why shouldn't the -- I mean, I-- I -- if the Double Jeopardy Clause doesn't apply in onesituation, it seems to me it shouldn't apply in the other.MR. REICHERT: And Billy Jo Lara was prosecutedusing Federal power, and that's -- and that's the premise. He -- when he was prosecuted by the tribe, he wasprosecuted using Federal power. And then his subsequentprosecution in the Federal court --QUESTION: Why -- why doesn't Gideon v.Wainwright and all the other provisions of the Bill ofRights apply? MR. REICHERT: To Billy Jo Lara as a non-member th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY of the tribe? I think that it should apply.QUESTION: To -- to any Indian tribalprosecution of its own -- even of its own members.MR. REICHERT: Because this Court said in UnitedStates v. Wheeler that the -- the member of a tribe hasaccepted the benefits and the burdens of being a member ofthat tribe, and one of the burdens is that the Bill ofRights does not apply. And at any time that tribal membercan decide to leave his or her tribe and no longer be amember, no longer accept the benefits and no longer acceptthe burdens, which is the fundamental unfairness of eitherplacing a non-Indian or a non-member Indian before atribal court which does not give that person their fullconstitutional rights.QUESTION: So -- so the answer then to the dueprocess problem, which you've just given, is that the --the member -- the tribal member, the non-tribal Indian,and the non-Indian are all persons subject to the DueProcess Clause, but what counts is due process may varybetween whether you are a tribal member or not because ofthe argument you just gave. Now, if that's so, thatsolves that problem. Then we're back to the question of why not allowCongress to define sovereignty. I thought JusticeScalia's point was a very good point to mention the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY Philippines. If you reverse it, don't we have theauthority in the United States to give the Philippinesindependence? And if in fact, we get into the habit ofmaking that kind of decision through a congressional law,why could we not do the same to the Indian tribes? And if there is a boundary there, it must haveto do with the nature of a Constitution of the UnitedStates, not some language. And I can't find anything herethat would suggest that in doing this, that boundary ispassed. argument? So what's -- what's the answer to that kind ofMR. REICHERT: Your Honor, as I understand yourquestion, you're looking for where in the ConstitutionCongress has the power or this -- or this body has thepower.QUESTION: To the contrary. I'm sayingnaturally Congress has the power to take, let's say,something that is not a State -- it is like Puerto Rico orthe Philippines -- and to say we are changing the statusof that entity. Now, I would think you'd start from theproposition that they do have the power to define therelationship of entities that are not States to the UnitedStates. Now, if there is a limit on that, it must be th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY found either explicitly, which I can't find, or implicitlyin the nature of the constitutional document itself. So Iam looking to you to tell me any kind of limit like thatwhich might prevent what Congress tried to do here.MR. REICHERT: Congress has specific enumeratedpowers in the Constitution. Nowhere in those specificenumerated powers -- and the Government has pointed to nospecific enumerated powers that allows Congress to takethe action they did.QUESTION: I want to turn the question then. Which is the power that allowed us to give independence tothe Philippines? Which is the power that allowed us topass the Federal Relations Act or the CommonwealthRelations Act that defines the relationship with PuertoRico? Which is the power -- where -- where are thesepowers in the -- I'm not saying they're not there. I'msaying that I'm not an expert in this area and I -- I'dlike you to make this argument of where they are.MR. REICHERT: In the Treaty Clause. AndCongress and the executive branch can have relations withother nations through the Treaty Clause and can definetheir relation. But this Court has said that dealings with thetribe is more than treaties and more than statutes, thatit also depends on the relationship of the tribes to this th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY dependent nation. And in giving their -- in -- inaccepting the protection of the United States, the tribesaccepted the burdens and necessarily gave up certainaspects of their sovereignty.QUESTION: Now, my impression is that we used todo this through treaty, but at some point the House ofRepresentatives was somewhat unhappy about not having arole in this and therefore it became changed such that therelationship with the Indian tribes is defined throughagreement ratified and enacted into law by both houses ofCongress. Now, was that unconstitutional to do that?MR. REICHERT: I'm not sure that it was -- if itwas unconstitutional or not, but I don't think that's theimportant distinction, Your Honor. What the importantdistinction is is where does this power to now deal withIndian tribes and to -- what they're trying to do isdefine sovereignty and take any role that this Court hasin defining sovereignty away. Under the Government'sanalysis --QUESTION: Well, I -- I suppose that if thisCourt said that the nature of sovereignty is such that ithas certain limits and that this is imposed because of theConstitution and because of long use, perhaps Congresscouldn't change it. But we haven't said that.MR. REICHERT: But Congress -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY QUESTION: We have not said that. Duro didn'tsay that. Duro said we'll look at the statute. Congressdidn't give this power. End of case. That's all. Insofar as the territories, because that's underArticle IV of the Constitution, it has nothing to do withthis case. MR. REICHERT: And Congress is alreadyattempting to -- with the Hicks fix to overrule Hicks,Montana, and Oliphant. And if this Court gives toCongress all the powers that the Government is asking themto --QUESTION: That may well be a different casebecause then we're concerned with the powers of -- ofIndian tribes as a historical matter of their sovereigntyover citizens of the United States who have directrelations, responsibilities, obligations, and rights bothwith their States and with the National Government, andunder the insular cases, the Constitution applies withfull force to the territory of the United States. Sothat's a very different -- that's a very different case.MR. REICHERT: But Mr. Lara owes no allegiancewhatsoever to the Spirit Lake Sioux Tribe. He's a memberof a different tribe. Using -- he is a citizen of theUnited States just like any other Indian. He receives nobenefits from the Spirit Lake Sioux Tribe. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY QUESTION: Then you're making a -- then you'remaking a constitutional argument and it's an appropriateargument. But I -- I don't think it follows from thatthat within the realm where Congress does have authority,i.e., the relations of Indian tribes with their ownmembers, that it can't give in one year and take away the-- the other year. I -- I just don't think you need thatargument to prevail in your case.MR. REICHERT: In -- and thank you. (Laughter.) MR. REICHERT: The -- and it is -- it iscritically important to look at what a tribe -- whatpowers a tribe exerts over its members and what -- whatsomebody who is a member of a tribe traveling across thecountry, traveling across an interstate highway and is nota member of that tribe, comes onto a reservation for noreason other than to get through that reservation --QUESTION: What about someone who lives on thereservation, marries a woman who is a member of the tribe? Why doesn't the tribe have at least the sovereignauthority -- it's always at the sufferance of Congress,but to say when things go wrong on our reservation, whenour people are hurt, we are entitled to prosecute thewrongdoer?MR. REICHERT: Because if the Court were to th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY adopt that position, then there would be no reason not tosubject non-Indians to tribal jurisdiction as well. That's a contact --QUESTION: Well, how do you distinguish Brendalewith a zoning ordinance and so forth? Is criminaljurisdiction different? MR. REICHERT: Criminal -- criminal jurisdictionis significantly different than civil jurisdiction. QUESTION: And -- and what's -- what's theauthority for that?MR. REICHERT: I believe that that's in mybrief, Your Honor. I don't have that cite in front of me.The -- but in -- in Duro this Court said that inthe criminal -- that the criminal context is unique, andthat in the -- in the realm of criminal law, we must firstlook -- no matter what we think of history, no matter whatour interpretation is of history and statutes andtreaties, this must be examined under the guise that BillyJo Lara, or in that case Albert Duro, is a citizen firstand foremost of the United States. QUESTION: But then you've given the answer toyour own question. If you're right -- if you're rightthat this does -- is absolutely, you know, a violation ofdue process to subject the non-tribal member, say, to atrial without a lawyer, well, then you would win, but not th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY this case. What you would win is a case where there wasan appeal from the tribal prosecution, and under thosecircumstances, they had raised the question just as youphrased it, say it may not violate due process, for thereasons you gave, not to give the tribal member a lawyer,but it does violate due process for Congress to pass a lawwhich subjects me to this criminal trial without a lawyerbecause I am not a tribal member. So if you are right,there is a vehicle to make that claim and you will win oryour client will. But he didn't take advantage of thatvehicle in this case. MR. REICHERT: And -- and it's interesting. TheGovernment says in numerous instances that habeas reliefis an appropriate remedy. This Court recognized in Durothat habeas is not an appropriate remedy, and it's not fortwo reasons, the first being habeas relief requires an in-custody -- has an in-custody requirement. Mr. Lara isquickly out of custody.And without a lawyer, how can one be expected toraise complex Federal rights such as habeas? When onewalks into a courtroom, one does not walk in and say --QUESTION: Well, we do it all the time. We havea lot of pro se applicants that make very complexarguments. That's not new.MR. REICHERT: But it's not required to step th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY into a courtroom in the United States and say before thisproceeding starts, I want to invoke all of my rights. Those rights must be waived. And at no point were these-- were these rights waived by Mr. Lara.QUESTION: Of course, he'd be subjected to thesame thing on his own reservation, on the reservation ofhis own tribe, and you say that's okay.MR. REICHERT: This Court has said that -- thatprosecuting a member on his own tribe is okay because hehas -- he has consented to that.QUESTION: Mightn't there be such a thing as,you know, when -- when you enroll in any tribe, yousubject yourself to what might be call Indian law --MR. REICHERT: No --QUESTION: -- the law of your tribal council andthe law of -- of other tribal councils? And just asyou're not entitled to an attorney before your own tribalcouncil, you're not entitled to an attorney before anotherone. Why -- that -- that would be a sensible resolutionit seems to me. MR. REICHERT: It would be wonderful if tribeswere the same, but tribes are not. Tribes are distinctlydifferent. To say that the -- that somebody in -- anIndian in Alaska is going to know what the criminal lawsin the State of Florida are going to be is simply not the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY case. He's not going to understand the customs. He --this person would not have had any input into the tribalcouncil, what the laws were, who the judges --QUESTION: How does that differ from somebodyfrom Virginia who caused some trouble in Louisiana anddoesn't want to go to the Louisiana courts because theyhave this mixed civil/common law system? MR. REICHERT: Because a criminal defendant inLouisiana under your -- under your example would have thefull benefit of the Bill of Rights which a -- which anIndian does not have in tribal courts. And that's thedifference. They would -- he would -- that person wouldhave a Louisiana lawyer who understood Louisiana law andcould speak on his behalf. Gideon v. Wainwright is --there is wonderful language in there, talking about howimportant it is to have a lawyer.QUESTION: But this is --QUESTION: Yes, but if -- if --QUESTION: -- this is so hypothetical becausethere's nothing in this record to show that he asked for alawyer, was denied a lawyer. We have to assume that --that's -- that's not an issue in this case. You're --you're not forced to have a lawyer.QUESTION: But even beyond that, if you convinceus that the other -- the other conviction is void, what's th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY the basis for double jeopardy?MR. REICHERT: Because Mr. Lara was prosecutedunder the color of law. He was prosecuted. He went tojail for days, and he --QUESTION: Yes, but there's no valid judgment ifyou're right. MR. REICHERT: And Mr. Lara never attacked his-- his judgment. The Government is attacking hisjudgment, coming in -- he -- he never attacked hisjudgment. Now the Government is coming in attacking hisjudgment collaterally in order to exact a more harshsentence in Federal court. QUESTION: No. They're relying on the dualsovereignty doctrine. And you -- you don't seem to me tochallenge that either, do you? You're not asking us toreexamine the basic double jeopardy doctrine.MR. REICHERT: No, I am not, Your Honor. No, Iam not. And -- and the tribe, acting under the directionof Congress which has control over the Indianreservations, acting under what they thought was a validstatute, acting under a statute that would not be invaliduntil this Court speaks, was placed in jail and hassuffered the constraints of being in jail, then wassubsequently prosecuted by that same body by Congress and th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY was indicted and now is going to be prosecuted a secondtime. The Government can't rewrite the logs of the jail. He was there and he -- and the fact that he was punishedis clear.For these reasons, I ask this Court to affirmthe decision of the Eighth Circuit and to find that BillyJo's -- Billy Jo Lara's subsequent Federal prosecutionviolated double jeopardy. Thank you. QUESTION: Can I ask just one question? Of whattribe is Lara a member?MR. REICHERT: The -- the --QUESTION: Well, it will be in the record.Do you know if there is a -- any kind of anagreement between his tribe and the prosecuting tribe?MR. REICHERT: No. In fact -- no, there is not. And historically there wouldn't have been. They are twotribes that were bitter enemies throughout history and --QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. Reichert.Mr. Kneedler, you have minutes remaining.REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF EDWIN S. KNEEDLERON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERMR. KNEEDLER: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice. The first point I'd like to make is that thiscase only involves the question of whether Congress canauthorize tribes to exercise jurisdiction over Indians who th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY are members of other tribes or affiliated with othertribes, not non-member Indians. And that -- that point issignificant because it calls into -- into play additionalpowers that Congress has in this area particularlydefining the attributes of membership in a tribe. Congress has -- among those attributes are the eligibilityfor special benefits, educational benefits, healthbenefits, housing benefits. So someone from anothertribe --QUESTION: And I take it tribal membership isalways consensual in the context that we're talking about?MR. KNEEDLER: I -- I think -- I think it would-- yes, it would be. Someone always would have the -- theability to disavow his -- his Indian affiliation. I thinkthat would be an important part of it.But -- so what Congress has done here is simplyto identify another attribute of membership or affiliationwith a tribe, which is that if you're on another tribe'sreservation, you will be subject to that tribe's criminaljurisdiction. And that is important to law and order onmany reservations, as Congress itself realized when itenacted this statute in .QUESTION: Is it correct that a defendant in thecase right before the trial starts could disavow hisIndian status? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY MR. KNEEDLER: No. He could not -- I -- I thinkhe -- as long as he was affiliated at the time of theconduct, I think -- I think the -- the consequences would-- would flow from that.QUESTION: I wonder if that -- why that wouldfollow? If he had that absolute right, it seems to meanytime before judgment he should -- he could say I'mstopped being an Indian.MR. KNEEDLER: No. I -- I think -- I thinkCongress at least under the Necessary and Proper Clausecould allow a tribe to maintain jurisdiction oversomething that happened while the person was triballyaffiliated.The -- another fundamental point is the one thatJustice Breyer mentioned is that there is nothing in theConstitution that prohibits, the places a limit in thissituation on Congress' exercise of its plenary power overIndian affairs. And in fact, there's much in theConstitution that points to the contrary. TheConstitution refers to the Indian tribes, and as thisCourt has said, that reference to tribes and to thetreaty-making power recognizes tribes as sovereigns, notsimply voluntary organizations, but in the Constitutionitself recognizes them as sovereigns. And the Court hassaid that because of those powers and implicit from that th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY is the power of Congress to exercise protective authorityover Indian tribes. And here that protection includesprotection of tribal -- tribes from crimes committed byother tribal members. In solving this serious law enforcement problem,Congress was entitled to be guided by the Constitutionitself which recognizes the tribes as sovereign and tovest authority in them as sovereign rather than act inderogation of the Constitution by deeming the tribes to beagents of the Federal Government when a tribal prosecutoris bringing a prosecution under tribal law in -- in tribalcourt. And Congress could rationally reach thisconclusion for another important reason, and that is thelesson in history. History is very important in Indianaffairs, and Congress throughout history, since undera jurisdictional regime that remains in effect, has leftto tribes the power to exercise jurisdiction over membersof other tribes, as this Court said in United States v.Rodgers where it construed the Indian against Indianexception as intended to allow tribe matters not -- and itexpressly said, not only with -- with their own tribe butother tribes, to be left to the tribe.QUESTION: Could the Congress define a -- acriminal offense between one Indian as another Indian and th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY require that the trial be in a tribal court?MR. KNEEDLER: A title offense?QUESTION: Yes.MR. KNEEDLER: I -- I think that --QUESTION: Because my next question would be ifthey did, could there then be double jeopardy if there wasa second trial.MR. KNEEDLER: That -- that would -- that --that might present a -- a separate problem, but if the --because there -- it might be the same offense.CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: Thank you, Mr.Kneedler.The case is submitted.(Whereupon, at : a.m., the case in theabove-entitled matter was submitted.) th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY 