 IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XLINDA LINGLE, GOVERNOR OF : HAWAII, ET AL., : Petitioners : v. : No. -CHEVRON U.S.A. INC. :- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -X Washington, D.C. Tuesday, February , The above-entitled matter came on for oralargument before the Supreme Court of the United States at: a.m.APPEARANCES:MARK J. BENNETT, ESQ., Attorney General, Honolulu, Hawaii; on behalf of the Petitioners.EDWIN S. KNEEDLER, ESQ., Deputy Solicitor General, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on behalf of the United States, as amicus curiae, supporting the Petitioners. CRAIG E. STEWART, ESQ., San Francisco, California; on behalf of the Respondent. th Street, NW Suite --FOR-DEPOWashington, DC C O N T E N T SORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGEMARK J. BENNETT, ESQ. On behalf of the Petitioners EDWIN S. KNEEDLER, ESQ. On behalf of the United States, as amicus curiae, supporting the Petitioners CRAIG E. STEWART, ESQ. On behalf of the Respondent REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OFMARK J. BENNETT, ESQ. On behalf of the Petitioners th Street, NW Suite --FOR-DEPOWashington, DC P R O C E E D I N G S (: a.m.) JUSTICE O'CONNOR: We will hear argument next inLingle v. Chevron U.S.A. Attorney General Bennett. ORAL ARGUMENT OF MARK J. BENNETT ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS MR. BENNETT: Justice O'Connor, and may itplease the Court: For years the Federal courts havedeferentially reviewed both the efficacy and the wisdom oflegislation, even when it affects property interests. This case squarely presents the question, should we nowturn back the clock? We make two main arguments: first, that thesubstantially advance test should not be a standalone testfor determining whether regulation affects a takingbecause such a test is fundamentally divorced from a majorprinciple of the regulatory takings doctrine itself,economic injury; and second, if there is such a standalonetest, it ought to be no more searching than the rationalbasis test of due process. As this Court has stated in First English, theJust Compensation Clause is not designed to interfere withthe ability of government to affect property interests, th Street, NW Suite --FOR-DEPOWashington, DC but rather to require just compensation in the event of anotherwise valid taking. In this particular case, we had a circumstancewhere one single Federal judge conducted a fact trialwhere she evaluated the demeanor and credibility of oneexpert from Chevron and one expert from the State ofHawaii in order to make a determination of whether or notgarden variety economic regulation was constitutional orunconstitutional. There was no -- the test applied wouldhave been no different if this had been an act of Congressinstead of an act of the Hawaii State legislature. Inthis case, what the district court did was whollyinconsistent, we submit, with any reasonable concepts offederalism, and if it had been an act of Congress thatthis district court judge was sitting in judgment of, itwould have been entirely inconsistent with the respectthat this Court has consistently said is due to a co-equal branch of government. A particular irony of the way the Ninth Circuitapplied what it believed to be the Agins test, which itindicated the standard of review fell somewhere betweenrational basis and rough proportionality, but the -- thesupreme irony of that, we suggest, is that if that testwere applied, it would have the effect of overruling thevery cases that Agins cited in supporting the language it th Street, NW Suite --FOR-DEPOWashington, DC -- it used, that if indeed you have this type ofintermediate scrutiny, cases like Nectow and Euclid v.Village of Ambler could not stand because, as this Courthas said, those cases set out a rational basis test,whether the object was in the power of the legislature or-- or the municipal authority and whether the means usedto achieve it were rational. And the test the NinthCircuit set up in this case, and as applied by thedistrict court, would have overruled those very casesbecause there would have been a fact trial necessary todetermine whether or not the -- the zoning ordinances atissue in that -- in those cases were efficacious orinefficacious. JUSTICE O'CONNOR: Well, does the fact thatdiscrete or individual property rights are being affectedand, indeed, taken justify some higher level of scrutinythan we would apply to general economic regulation by theState? MR. BENNETT: No, Your Honor. We -- we wouldthink, first of all, this -- this Court has establishedthat it doesn't look at whether some stick in the bundleof rights is affected by the regulation. It looks at theparcel as a whole. And second, this Court has said that it isshying away from per se tests, and indeed, it -- it looks th Street, NW Suite --FOR-DEPOWashington, DC at these types of cases under the rubric of Penn Centralwhere the primary factor that the Court looks at is theextent of the economic injury and also the extent to whichit interferes with reasonable investment-backedexpectations. A particular irony of this case is that theNinth Circuit has said this particular statute of theHawaii legislature affects a taking without any regard towhether or not it caused any economic injury to Chevron atall. This Court has found that when the major flaw inlegislation or the -- the major argument as to whylegislation should be deemed to be unconstitutional turnson the legitimacy of the legislation, that finds a naturalhome in the due process analysis, rather than in ananalysis that looks at whether or not the legislationactually effects a taking or not. Indeed, this Court, Your Honor, despite what itsaid in Agins in relying on the due process analysis, hasnever found a taking based upon doubt as to the likelyefficacy of economic legislation. JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, we've said it a lot,though, haven't we? Why do we keep on saying it? MR. BENNETT: Well, Your Honor, I think that in-- in Del Monte Dunes, every opinion in the case discussedthis language and -- and said that the Court has never th Street, NW Suite --FOR-DEPOWashington, DC indicated that this sets out a more exacting test thanrational basis other than in the rough proportionalitycontext of Nollan and Dolan. And I think the languageused in Agins, which came from due process cases, hassomewhat taken on a life of its own, and the lower courtsand the -- the supreme courts of the several States havehad quite -- have had a great deal of difficulty in -- indealing with what exactly the language means. We believe,as we've set forth in our brief, that to the extent itestablishes this intermediate scrutiny, as the NinthCircuit felt it did, that it would be dicta in Agins, butif the Court viewed it as not dicta, we think that theCourt ought to reconsider the constitutional rule underthe standards for such reconsideration that the Court hasidentified in cases like Payne v. Tennessee. JUSTICE BREYER: Suppose -- suppose a person hasa piece of property, and they zone it suddenly, nobuilding -- no building -- which destroys the value of theproperty pretty much. Now, should we just -- I thinkthose might be the cases where this language began toappear, something like that. Should that be just a simplerational basis review too? Because I'm trying to put thecase where it might be -- arguably you should havesomething stronger since the property value is -- isseriously hurt and -- th Street, NW Suite --FOR-DEPOWashington, DC MR. BENNETT: Your Honor, if -- if the claim wasthat the legislation was irrational, that it -- JUSTICE BREYER: No. They're going to say,well, we can imagine a reason, but if you look at itrealistically, you know there's no good reason. MR. BENNETT: No -- JUSTICE BREYER: I mean, if you put your mind toit, you can make one up, which is sort of the test forrational basis in the economic context. But as soon as webecome more realistic, there isn't much of a reason. Itcan't satisfy the stronger test, though it could satisfythe weaker. MR. BENNETT: No, Your Honor. We would suggestthat this Court's jurisprudence indicates that that typeof a claim of a taking ought to be analyzed under the PennCentral test where you first do look at the extent of theeconomic devaluation, if you will, of the property and youlook at whether there is an interference with reasonableinvestment-backed expectations -- JUSTICE BREYER: What are we supposed to do, toreturn to Justice Scalia's question, with the fact thatthis appears -- I counted about cases, I mean, where itimplicitly or explicitly appears, something like it. Arewe supposed to just, oh, say all those cases were wrongand -- what are we supposed to do about that? th Street, NW Suite --FOR-DEPOWashington, DC MR. BENNETT: Well, we would suggest, YourHonor, that what the Court does is say that -- that inAgins, what the Court was essentially doing was restatinga due process test, and either say -- JUSTICE O'CONNOR: Would you speak up a little? MR. BENNETT: I'm sorry, Your Honor. We would-- we would say that the Court ought to say that in Aginsthe Court was restating a due process test, and if this isto be a standalone test, it ought to be part of dueprocess. But if it finds a home in the Just CompensationClause, it ought to find a home in the -- in the publicuse portion of the Just Compensation Clause where if,indeed, the economic impact in a regulatory takingscontext is so severe that it constitutes a taking, thenwhether it rationally advances a State goal ought to be --ought to inform the question of whether or not it's apublic use, but that it shouldn't be a standalone test forreally sitting as a super-legislature to determine whetheror not this really advances the government's goals asopposed to whether it could rationally have advancedthe -- JUSTICE SCALIA: Why would you feel -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: So you want us to put -- JUSTICE SCALIA: Why would you feel better aboutour doing that in order to determine whether -- whether th Street, NW Suite --FOR-DEPOWashington, DC there's a public use than you would feel our doing it inorder to decide whether there's been a taking? MR. BENNETT: Well -- JUSTICE SCALIA: I mean, wouldn't all of your --all of your objections apply equally? MR. BENNETT: Certainly if it were more thanrational basis. So we're -- we're suggesting that itoughtn't, wherever it's put, be more than a rational basistest. JUSTICE SCALIA: You're -- you're not reallyurging us to -- to defer the -- the evil day and simplysay, well, this test, which is more than rational basis,may well apply to -- to whether there's been a -- a publicuse or not, but it certainly doesn't apply to whetherthere's been a taking. MR. BENNETT: No, absolutely not. It shouldn't-- it shouldn't -- JUSTICE SCALIA: I hope you won't do that. MR. BENNETT: -- it shouldn't apply to -- toeither one, and wherever this -- if the Court wants to saythat this language needs to find a home somewhere and itisn't in due process, then it shouldn't be more than arational basis test wherever it's put. In many ways, Your Honor, this statute, Act of the Hawaii legislature, is -- is almost identical, th Street, NW Suite --FOR-DEPOWashington, DC although less intrusive, than the statute that this Courtupheld in Exxon v. Maryland. The goal of the statute inboth cases was the same. It was to preserve competitionin the retail market, and in Hawaii, where we have at therefinery level a duopoly and at the wholesale level anoligopoly, it certainly was rational for the legislatureto believe that trying to prevent the -- the oligopolistfrom projecting their market share into the retail levelwould have the effect of preserving competition. And itwas certainly rational for the -- the legislature tobelieve that limiting the rents that oil companies couldcharge their independent service stations so that theycouldn't charge excessive or predatory rents would servethe goal of preserving competition in the retail market ina State where the oil -- where the gasoline prices at thepump are the highest in the country and the -- the marketat the two levels above the retail level isextraordinarily concentrated. This Court, indeed, has said -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, suppose it were clear,from what the legislature said, that the only purpose ofthis legislation was to help out some local dealers whowere politically powerful and the gasoline prices would goup. I assume you would be here defending the statute. MR. BENNETT: Well, Your Honor, what we would th Street, NW Suite --FOR-DEPOWashington, DC say is that this Court's jurisprudence is that in applyinga rational basis test, one doesn't look at what thelegislature said was the purpose of the statute, but onelooks at what could be advanced as a purpose for thestatute and -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: And you would be heredefending the statute on -- in my hypothetical case. MR. BENNETT: Yes, Your Honor, and we would --we would be, I imagine, positing additional reasons whythe statute would pass a rational basis test than thoseactually reflected in the legislative history because Ithink, as this Court has indicated a number of times, thatrequiring the legislature to state reasons or, indeed,looking at the precise reasons stated by the legislaturein deciding whether the statute furthers those goals asopposed to other goals the legislature might have had,simply sets this Court up as a -- as I said, a super-legislature, and -- and really opens the door to the typeof intrusive review of legislative acts that this Courthas not engaged in for more than years. The number of cases that the Court has looked atin which it has indicated that it is not going to get intothe business of determining efficacy or wisdom is, indeed,legion, and really since the New State Ice era, theLochner era, this Court has not engaged in that type of th Street, NW Suite --FOR-DEPOWashington, DC review. And in fact, in Lochner itself, the -- the Courtstated that we do not believe in the soundness of theviews which uphold this law, and one can take that andlook at the Ninth Circuit opinion in this case in whichthe Ninth Circuit does essentially the same thing. Your Honor, in our representative democracy,decisions as to the wisdom of economic legislation are forthe political branches, not the courts. The voters ofHawaii have a remedy if their elected officials fail them. It is in that forum that the wisdom of Act should bedebated. Justice O'Connor, I'd ask to reserve theremainder of my time. JUSTICE O'CONNOR: Very well, General Bennett. We'll hear next from Mr. Kneedler. ORAL ARGUMENT OF EDWIN S. KNEEDLER ON BEHALF OF THE UNITED STATES, AS AMICUS CURIAE, SUPPORTING THE PETITIONERS MR. KNEEDLER: Justice O'Connor, and may itplease the Court: The reasons why this Court has applied therational basis standard to review economic legislation ofthe sort involved here go to the heart of the role ofcourts in our democratic society. Legislatures, notcourts, are elected to enact the laws, and courts, th Street, NW Suite --FOR-DEPOWashington, DC therefore, do not substitute their judgment for theeconomic wisdom of legislation for that of thelegislature. And courts typically lack the fact-findingability and expertise of legislatures, especially to makethe sort of predictive judgments that the Ninth Circuitrelied upon in this case. These fundamental principles about the role ofcourts in our society would be greatly undermined if aplaintiff could simply -- could obtain heightened scrutinyof legislation by simply recasting his claim as a takingsclaim. And therefore, it's not surprising that thisnotion doesn't find support in the Just CompensationClause. When the government affirmatively exercises thepower of eminent domain to take property, the requirementthat compensation be paid doesn't rest on the propositionthat the legislation is ineffective. To the contrary, thetaking presupposes that the -- that the action will --will further a legitimate governmental purpose or at leastthat the legislature could have rationally so concluded. Any inquiry into the legitimacy of thegovernmental purpose or whether it will be served,instead, arises under the Public Use Clause, not whetherthere is a taking. And if those purposes are not servedor the legislature could not rationally so conclude, it is th Street, NW Suite --FOR-DEPOWashington, DC not a public use and it's invalid and it should beenjoined, the consequences not to trigger the payment of-- of compensation. And the -- the same analytical approach appliesfor regulatory takings. In deciding whether there is aregulatory taking, this Court has developed tests to lookto see whether the nature of the government's restrictionsare essentially the functional equivalent of the exerciseof the power of eminent domain or appropriation. And that-- that the Court has done by looking principally at theimpact on the property owner, not the rationality of whatthe legislature has done. That has not been part of it. For example, in the Lucas case, the -- the testfor finding a taking is whether all economic value hasbeen destroyed. Or in the physical appropriation cases,the Court has said that's such a fundamental interferenceburden on the landowner that there is a per se taking. And similarly under the Penn Central test, the centralinquiry is on the economic impact and the interferencewith investment-backed expectations, things that look tothe impact on the -- on the landowner. JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Kneedler -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, if you're going to usethe public use prong of the -- of the -- the Constitutionfor what we think are regulatory takings, then what th Street, NW Suite --FOR-DEPOWashington, DC happens is you just invalidate the regulation. You don'tpay compensation. MR. KNEEDLER: That's -- that's correct,although I -- although I should say -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: Because if it's not a publicuse, then you can't -- MR. KNEEDLER: Right. No. That -- that'scorrect. And I think that's -- that's the difference. Ifsomething doesn't -- if the legislature couldn'trationally conclude that -- that the measure will -- willserve a legitimate governmental purpose, it's invalid and-- and therefore not a taking. It's improper governmentalaction. JUSTICE GINSBURG: What about substantiallyadvances a legitimate State interest, which does soundlike it's a higher standard? And it has been said, as waspointed out, in several cases of this Court -- not that itmade any difference to the bottom line, but that languageis -- sounds -- sounds like it's a more toothful standardthan rational basis. MR. KNEEDLER: Well, in -- in fact, the pointyou made that it has not actually affected the outcome Ithink is an important consideration for this Court. And-- and now that the Court is focusing on the question ofwhether this really does logically fit into the Just th Street, NW Suite --FOR-DEPOWashington, DC Compensation Clause jurisprudence, I -- I think it -- Ithink it's important to consider that the Court has notactually ever struck down a measure under the JustCompensation Clause outside the exactions situation whichpresent the different consequence of -- of a physicalappropriation. The Court has not ever actually struckdown a statute on -- on that basis. But with respect to that language, it -- itarose in Agins. There was a little bit of discussionalong those lines in Penn Central, but in Agins, whichmost people see as -- as the origin of it, the Court, aswas pointed out, relied upon Village of Euclid and uponNectow, both of which were due process cases and both ofwhich applied a rational basis test. And in fact, onpages and of our brief, we set out the quotationsfrom Nectow and Euclid which show that the Court -- theCourt there was using the notion of whether the measurewill -- will further a substantial or has a substantialrelation to the public health, really in contradistinctionto something that is irrational. JUSTICE BREYER: What about Moore? MR. KNEEDLER: Excuse me? JUSTICE BREYER: What about Moore? MR. KNEEDLER: Moore? JUSTICE BREYER: Yes, City of East Cleveland th Street, NW Suite --FOR-DEPOWashington, DC where they had the grandmother and the -- the -- MR. KNEEDLER: Right. Well, cases -- casesinvolving the -- the family unit I think -- I mean, thoseare -- those go beyond simply the question of the -- ofregulating property. Those -- those get into -- those getinto questions of -- of who's occupying -- who's occupyingthe house. But -- but in Village of Belle Terre, the --the Court applied a rational basis test to the -- JUSTICE BREYER: So -- so we might still keep a-- a stronger test where a zoning ordinance affects thenumber of people that could live in a house or -- MR. KNEEDLER: No, not the number -- not thenumber of people. JUSTICE BREYER: Or who could live in the house. MR. KNEEDLER: That case concerned -- JUSTICE BREYER: Grandparents -- MR. KNEEDLER: -- a family, the -- the questionof interfering -- possible interference with a familyunit. But in Village of Belle Terre, the Court applied a-- a rational basis test to a zoning ordinance thatregulated unrelated people living in -- living in the samehouse. So the phrase, substantially advance, while itmay have that ring to it, in fact its origins, when youlook at page of our brief, the -- the Court in Nectow th Street, NW Suite --FOR-DEPOWashington, DC explained the test as being a -- a court may not set asidethe determination of public officers unless it's clearthat it has no foundation in reason and is a merearbitrary or irrational exercise, having no substantialrelation to the public health. The Court was -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: Well, they don't sound likesynonyms. So I'm asking you what you would recommend thatthis Court do. If you say that the standard is the sameas rational basis, perhaps this confusing phrase should beeliminated. MR. KNEEDLER: Yes. I'm sorry. Imisunderstood, if that was the question. We think itdefinitely should be eliminated, and the -- and the Courtshould say that it is applying the rational basis test. And I think it's instructive in the -- in thepost-Agins era to look at the Keystone decision, both thedissent and the majority in that case. It was -- theCourt was essentially unanimous that the -- that thetaking provision of a clause does not authorize an inquiryinto the efficacy of legislation. And in fact, on thatpoint, the dissent quoted this Court's decision inMidkiff. JUSTICE KENNEDY: Of course, when you have aphysical invasion of property and a inverse condemnationis tantamount to a physical invasion, then we've built up th Street, NW Suite --FOR-DEPOWashington, DC some doctrine in order to protect the concept of physicalinvasion so that that can't be avoided. Perhaps that'snot applicable to a -- to an economic regulation. MR. KNEEDLER: Well, I -- yes, this -- this -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: Even though this is aleasehold interest. I -- I understand that. MR. KNEEDLER: But the Court applied a rationalbasis test in Pennell under the Due Process Clause and itwould be odd to apply a -- a higher test. I mean, it would be a different question ifthere was a claim of -- of confiscation of the property,but Chevron has stipulated that it could not make out ataking claim on the basis of -- of its economic impact. So we're talking about a standalone inquiry into theefficacy of the legislation. JUSTICE SCALIA: But, Mr. Kneedler, simplygiving -- giving the phrase, substantially advance, the --the more modest meaning that you argue for doesn't solvethe problem. The -- the statement in Agins would still beincorrect. Agins says that the application of a generalzoning law to a particular property effects a taking ifthe ordinance does not substantially advance legitimateState interests. MR. KNEEDLER: Yes. Now I -- and that was thepoint -- th Street, NW Suite --FOR-DEPOWashington, DC JUSTICE SCALIA: I mean, so we have to eat crowno matter what we do. Right? (Laughter.) JUSTICE SCALIA: So why -- why go through allthe trouble of, you know, redefining substantiallyaffects? MR. KNEEDLER: Right. No. I -- I didn't meanto say that -- that it should -- JUSTICE SCALIA: Yes. MR. KNEEDLER: -- be a rational basis test andtherefore the Court would conclude it was a taking. In --in the regulatory area, if the court -- if a taking is notmade out on the basis of economic impact under -- underPenn Central or one of those tests, there's no taking. You don't get to the public use requirement then becausethat only kicks in if there is a taking. So it's the dueprocess rational basis test that -- that would apply. And-- and as I said, I think Keystone, with -- with respectto applying a rational basis test on the efficacy questionis -- is dispositive on that -- on that question. Now, the -- the Court did say you can look atthe character of the governmental action, what -- what thegovernment is doing as part of the Penn Central test, butnot this sort of means-end efficacy question. And we dothink it would be appropriate for the Court to jettison th Street, NW Suite --FOR-DEPOWashington, DC that. I would point out that throughout the course ofhistory, the Court has sometimes used takings and dueprocess kind of interchangeably. And we -- we quote, forexample, the -- this Court's Rowan decision which refersto the plaintiff's constitutional claim as saying that theregulatory action violates the Fifth Amendment because itconstitutes a taking without due process of law. I thinksometimes the Court has used or parties have used thoseterms interchangeably, and that may well be what the Courtwas doing in Agins. And I think if you look at Penn Central wherethat phraseology was -- was used, the same is true wherethe Court was -- was relying upon the due process part ofGoldblatt, and the Court put the word taking in -- inquotes, I think perhaps indicating that it was not lookingat a literal taking. JUSTICE O'CONNOR: Thank you, Mr. Kneedler. Mr. Stewart. ORAL ARGUMENT OF CRAIG E. STEWART ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT MR. STEWART: Justice O'Connor, may it pleasethe Court: The issue in this case is the content of thisCourt's regulatory takings doctrine and, in particular, th Street, NW Suite --FOR-DEPOWashington, DC whether that doctrine includes the inquiries called for bythe substantially advances test, which this Courtarticulated in Agins, but which is grounded in principlesthe Court has long recognized both before and after Agins. JUSTICE KENNEDY: Is it a regulatory taking inyour view because the substantially advances test is notmet, or is a regulatory taking and then I ask if itsubstantially advances? MR. STEWART: The -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: How do I know that this is aregulatory taking, in other words? MR. STEWART: It's a -- it's a regulatory takingbecause the government has not physically appropriated theproperty or condemned it. Instead, by operation of itsregulation, it has taken the property interest fromChevron. It's like -- JUSTICE SOUTER: No, but that -- that means ifit's a taking at all, it's got to be a regulatory taking. But Justice Kennedy's question is what is the test fordetermining whether it is a taking. MR. STEWART: And I believe that question, YourHonor, is answered by Pennsylvania Coal where the Courtfound that the fact that the statute at issue thereprevented Pennsylvania Coal from mining a certain amountof the coal that was in the ground that it was otherwise th Street, NW Suite --FOR-DEPOWashington, DC entitled -- be entitled to mine -- took that property justas assuredly as a condemnation of it would. And then theCourt said, but the seemingly absolute protection of theJust Compensation Clause in the context of a -- of aregulation that affects that kind of appropriation, asopposed to an outright condemnation of it, that thatprotection is subject to an implied limitation that exists to allow the government to serve its purposes, asPennsylvania Coal described it, if the government couldhardly function at all, if it were required to pay forevery interference with property rights occasioned by itsregulation. So what we have growing out of PennsylvaniaCoal is a -- a rationale for allowing the government tointerfere with private property rights that wouldotherwise be protected and otherwise could not be takenwithout compensation in order that the government mayserve its legitimate purposes. JUSTICE BREYER: And then the question, ofcourse, is let's imagine you're either right or you'rewrong as to its being a regulatory taking. And maybe ifit's -- they have no reason for it at all, they can't doit. Period. And if they have some reason for it, even asort of bad one, they can do it. But if that's thecontext -- we're in the game where they can do it -- whyshould it matter, in respect to paying compensation, th Street, NW Suite --FOR-DEPOWashington, DC whether their reason is quite a good one or just barelygood enough? And that's -- that's the puzzle, I think,that the other side is putting to you, and I must say I'mrather moved by their argument because it seems to mewhether it's a very good reason or just a barely adequatereason has nothing to do with whether they should paycompensation. MR. STEWART: I think it goes to the difference,Your Honor, between the public use standard and the --which governs in a situation in which the government ispaying compensation. And in that standard, as we've beendiscussing today, in that context, the Court has applieda very deferential standard because the -- the burden onproperty rights is lesser and the -- the impediment -- JUSTICE BREYER: But the burden on -- MR. STEWART: -- to governmental action isgreater. JUSTICE BREYER: Maybe I'm not -- I thought --are we in the world in which you agree the government cando it even though their reason -- or is your basicargument, no, they can't do this at all? In which caseit's not a compensation question. It's a question ofwhether the Constitution of the United States forbids themfrom doing it. Period. MR. STEWART: We -- we believe, Your Honor, that th Street, NW Suite --FOR-DEPOWashington, DC it is a compensation issue. JUSTICE BREYER: It's a compensation issue. JUSTICE SOUTER: So you want money? You want amoney judgment? I thought you wanted them to stop it. MR. STEWART: We wanted a declaration from thecourt that the -- that they cannot proceed with a statutethat takes our rents without paying -- paying for us. What's happened here is that this legislature hasenacted -- JUSTICE SOUTER: But -- but isn't -- I thoughtyour premise was that because the statute doesn'tauthorize any payment, that is a way of stopping it. MR. STEWART: Yes. The statute does notauthorize payment. JUSTICE SOUTER: So if -- if Hawaii modifies itsstatute and says, we will give to you the differencebetween, you know, whatever the rent we -- if we canfigure it out -- whatever the rent would be and -- andwhat our statute requires, you'd be perfectly happy. MR. STEWART: Yes, Your Honor. JUSTICE SOUTER: Okay. MR. STEWART: What we are arguing about here iscompensation, and the standard that we -- JUSTICE O'CONNOR: Well, it would seem thatyou're arguing about whether this amounts to a taking -- th Street, NW Suite --FOR-DEPOWashington, DC MR. STEWART: Yes. JUSTICE O'CONNOR: -- at all. And you have tolook at how severely the State law burdens the propertyrights. Don't you? MR. STEWART: Your Honor, the -- in Lucas, thisCourt found that a -- a complete deprivation of theeconomic value of property constitutes a categoricaltaking. But the Court has not held -- it did not hold inLucas and it has not otherwise held -- that a regulationthat affects less than a complete destruction of economicvalue is categorically not a taking. The point of theCourt's regulatory takings doctrine and the inquiries thatit mandates is to determine those circumstances in which adeprivation that is less than a complete destruction ofeconomic value require compensation. JUSTICE BREYER: Well, the -- let me go back tomy question because I haven't heard the answer. And I'min a world, imaginative if you like, where Hawaii passesthis statute, and what we're interested in is not whetherthey can do it, but whether they have to pay compensation. And my question is, what in heaven's name has the goodnessor badness of their reason to do with that question? After all, I can imagine instances in which their reasonfor the regulation is pretty bad. It just barelysurvives, and they shouldn't have to pay. And I can th Street, NW Suite --FOR-DEPOWashington, DC imagine cases where their reason is wonderful and theyshould have to pay or maybe they shouldn't. It's neithera necessary nor a sufficient condition. It has nothing todo with whether you should have to pay. Now, that's their argument I think, or at leastas I understand it, and I want you to explain to me whythe goodness or badness of the reason, once it has passedthe minimal point, has anything to do with whether youshould have to pay compensation. MR. STEWART: And my answer to that, Your Honor,is that it goes -- it stems from the rationale expressedin Pennsylvania Coal for allowing the government tointerfere with private property -- JUSTICE BREYER: Holmes said, though he didn'thold that -- what he said was you have to pay when theregulation, a legitimate regulation, goes too far. So Iwill repeat. Why does the goodness or badness of thereason, past the minimal point, have anything to do withwhether a regulation goes too far? MR. STEWART: Well, part of the question whetherthe regulation goes too far is whether there is a basisfor imposing the burden on a particular property right. Here we have -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: Yes, and in that respect,Holmes did not use the word legitimate. He said just when th Street, NW Suite --FOR-DEPOWashington, DC the regulation goes too far, and if it's illegitimate,that tends to show -- I suppose the jurisprudence is --that this is not an accepted form of regulation in theusual course and therefore unnecessary. I take it that'syour argument. MR. STEWART: Well, I think, Your Honor, thatthe -- growing out of Pennsylvania Coal, the Court hasrecognized that one of the critical factors, if not themost critical factor, in regulatory takings analysis isthe character of the government's action and the nature ofthe government's interest. It's not simply a matter ofhow much property has been taken. The question is thegovernment's basis for taking that property. When we -- what we have here, Justice Breyer, isa -- is a -- a right specifically protected by theConstitution. The Constitution provides that privateproperty shall not be taken for public use without justcompensation. And Justice Holmes in Pennsylvania Coal was-- said that that seemingly absolute protection isqualified, and the -- JUSTICE BREYER: But he -- he didn't go intothis question. Let me give you an example that will make itclear. Let's take a case where there's the best reason inthe world, fabulous reason. We're taking this property to th Street, NW Suite --FOR-DEPOWashington, DC build a highway, which is absolutely necessary. Would yousuggest that compensation doesn't have to be paid? MR. STEWART: Compensation, of course, has to bepaid. JUSTICE BREYER: Of course, it does. Now, let me suggest the other side of the coin,a really terrible reason. You cannot build your housewithout using metal pipes. That's our building reg inthis State. Now, everybody knows -- I'm imagining anyway-- plastic pipes are just as good, but not quite, so theyhave a barely adequate reason. Do you think that theyhave to pay compensation to have a general building codesaying you can't use plastic pipes? MR. STEWART: Your Honor, I -- to me there's athreshold question of whether a general buildingregulation of that type really would be a -- a regulationthat would implicate the Takings Clause at all. JUSTICE BREYER: Well, it is an -- it doesregulate the use of your property and it means added cost,in fact, several thousand dollars added cost, to thebuilding of a house, and come up here and argue we agreethere's a rational reason, but it isn't so you can do it,but it isn't a really good reason, not substantial. Now,do you think that has anything to do with payingcompensation? th Street, NW Suite --FOR-DEPOWashington, DC MR. STEWART: Yes, Your Honor, I do. Andbecause the -- the -- assuming -- on the assumption thatthis is really a -- a burden on property rights that wouldbe subject to the Takings Clause, then that burdenrequires compensation unless there's some limitation onthe compensation principle. And the limitation that theCourt has recognized, growing out of Pennsylvania Coal, isthe need for the government to function. So we have aninquiry into whether this furthers the governmentalpurposes. Now, in your example, Your Honor, I don't thinkthere's any question that that inquiry would be satisfied. Our point is simply that the inquiry must be made. JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Stewart, I'm trying tounderstand not your theory but its concrete applications. Here we're dealing with the rent to be paid by a lessee ofa gas station, but what you're saying, I take it, would gofor any kind of rent control. You could make the sameargument. So you're -- so you are saying that rentcontrol is a taking and the State could do it withcompensation? MR. STEWART: Yes, and -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: And -- and the measure ofcompensation would be? How would the State -- let's takea -- an ordinary rental property, and the city puts a rent th Street, NW Suite --FOR-DEPOWashington, DC control ordinance into effect. You say that's a taking,and how would one measure the compensation? MR. STEWART: The compensation would be measuredas the difference between the -- the rent that was allowedunder the regulation or the statute and the rent that the-- that the landlord, the lessor, would otherwise beentitled to collect in the marketplace. JUSTICE SCALIA: I didn't understand you assaying that all rent control constitutes a taking. Ithought it is only unintelligent rent control thatconstitutes a taking. (Laughter.) JUSTICE SCALIA: Or do you not think that anyrent control is intelligent? MR. STEWART: No, that is not our position, YourHonor. The -- the -- and in fact, the -- the State hasspecifically disclaimed any contention that -- that thisis like the typical residential rent control. So -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: I'm asking for not theState's position but your position. MR. STEWART: And our -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: And let's -- let's assumethat there's no better reason for the rent control for thebuilding, residential building, than there is for the rentcontrol on the lease for the gas station. th Street, NW Suite --FOR-DEPOWashington, DC MR. STEWART: Your Honor, our -- the questionwould be, under our analysis, is not the validity of the-- of the ends, of the legislative ends. That would betaken care of in the inquiry under public use. So -- sothe -- so the question of the legitimacy of thegovernment's interest in controlling rent would not be atissue. What would be at issue under our test is theconnection between the -- the rent control, the burden onprivate -- private property rights that's imposed and thenature of the asserted interests and the degree to whichthat burden furthers that interest. Now, in the typical residential rent controlcircumstance, where the purpose of the statute -- where --where the -- where the legislature is concerned about the-- the price, the rent -- the rental amount that residentsare having to pay, in that circumstance, the test thatwe're proposing would be easily met because the purpose ofthe statute would be to grant rent relief to the -- to thetenants. And that -- JUSTICE SOUTER: And on your theory it wouldeasily be met no matter how severe the control. I -- Itake it on your theory, if -- if the -- if the rentcontrol ordinance said, $ an apartment, that's the toprent, fine with you because it's extraordinarily efficient th Street, NW Suite --FOR-DEPOWashington, DC in relieving poor renters from the -- from the burden of-- of high rents. MR. STEWART: I think our -- JUSTICE SOUTER: That can't be the test. MR. STEWART: Well, I think our position, YourHonor, is that there are -- this -- this is a thresholdinquiry, the -- the hypothetical -- JUSTICE SOUTER: But -- but it would -- in anycase it would pass the threshold inquiry on your test. You would say, boy, it doesn't get any more efficient thanthis until it gets to zero. MR. STEWART: I think that it would pass theinquiry. I suppose you could -- you could -- JUSTICE SOUTER: So you would say at thethreshold level, there's no taking. MR. STEWART: Yes. JUSTICE SOUTER: And what would you then do? Goon to Penn Central? MR. STEWART: Yes. JUSTICE SOUTER: Okay. MR. STEWART: You would have an inquiry intowhether there is a categorical taking under Lucas becauseit deprived essentially all economic value of the propertyand you would inquire under Penn Central whether --because the threshold inquiry into the nature of the th Street, NW Suite --FOR-DEPOWashington, DC government's interest is satisfied, you then inquire intowhether the burden is such in light of the purposes to beserved that we believe it goes too far -- JUSTICE SOUTER: Okay. But if -- if the test isgoing to be as unhelpful as it would be in my extremehypothetical, why have the test at all? Because in themore difficult case where it's not $ an apartment, but acase like this in which the justification is ultimately ajustification in gasoline prices and so on, the -- theinquiry is going to be much more complex. Penn Central isa way of approaching that complexity. Why do we botherwith this threshold test which produces a bizarre resultin one case and is going to be very difficult to apply inanother case, in which event I don't see the reason forhaving it as distinct from the Penn Central difficultytest. What's -- what's its value? MR. STEWART: I mean -- part of my answer tothat, Your Honor, is that this test, in our view, doeshave very narrow application, which is the reason why wedon't believe that the State is correct in suggesting thatit will result in the invalidation of all kinds ofeconomic regulation. Having said that, though, I do believe that itis an important threshold requirement that should be met,and if the government has not identified a basis for th Street, NW Suite --FOR-DEPOWashington, DC singling out a given property right and imposing on thatthe burden of a regulation and if it has not demonstratedthat the burden it is imposing is related in a -- in a --in advancing the purpose for which the burden is beingimposed, then in that circumstance, the -- the rationalefor imposing that burden without compensation, incontravention of the compensation requirement in the FifthAmendment, is missing. JUSTICE SOUTER: But isn't the sensible responseto the situation you posit that the government shouldn'tbe doing it? I mean, it's a little crazy to say theGovernment is acting crazy. Therefore it -- it ought tocontribute money so the net economic effect is somehowzero. There's simply a transfer. The taxpayers bear aburden as -- as opposed to somebody else. On the -- on the justification you're giving forthe test, you would say, look, if it's not substantiallyadvancing this interest, why let the government do it atall? I'm not saying that should be the test for whetherthe government should do it at all. But isn't that kindof the sensible tendency of the test, to suggest that thegovernment shouldn't even be doing it? MR. STEWART: And I -- the distinction we'rerelying upon there, Your Honor, is -- is the questionwhether the government can proceed with compensation as th Street, NW Suite --FOR-DEPOWashington, DC distinct from proceeding without compensation. When thegovernment proceeds with compensation -- it's going to payfor the private property rights, the constitutionallyprotected private property rights, with which it'sinterfering -- then we demand a lesser showing. But whenthere is a constitutional right at stake, the -- theshowing should be higher. We're not asking whether thegovernment can proceed at all. We're simply askingwhether the government can proceed without compensation. And the without compensation is what triggers andinfringes upon the very rights that are protected by theJust Compensation Clause. JUSTICE SCALIA: I must say I agree with JusticeSouter. It seems to me if you say -- you're saying itdoesn't make sense, so you got to pay for it. I think it-- it's much more reasonable to say it doesn't make sense,so you can't do it. Why isn't the latter the -- theintelligent reaction? MR. STEWART: Your Honor, I -- the -- thequestion of whether it makes sense turns upon the standardof review that the Court is going to apply to answer thatquestion. And when we are -- JUSTICE SOUTER: No. The -- I mean, it seems tome that the -- the whole point of the argument you'remaking is it won't hurt me, the landowner, quite so much, th Street, NW Suite --FOR-DEPOWashington, DC but if it doesn't make sense at all, why should we evenhave to get to that question? Why isn't the more sensiblething to say to the government, stop doing it? MR. STEWART: Because of the -- the -- thedifference in the relative interests at stake when we'retalking about proceeding with compensation as againstwithout compensation. In -- in the -- it's similar to the otherprotections extended under the Bill of Rights. The Courthas indicated that the Just Compensation Clause is just asmuch a part of the Bill of Rights as any of the otherprotections of the Bill of Rights. And there arecircumstances in which the government may proceed. Therewould be a rational basis for it to proceed under a verydeferential standard that would be applied under the DueProcess Clause, but the Court, nonetheless, requires ahigher showing because of the intrusion onconstitutionally protected rights. JUSTICE GINSBURG: But isn't the effect of whatyou're arguing that you can't do it? Because you -- thegovernment would have to pay the same amount that -- bythe -- that the rent is being reduced. We'd have tofigure out how much higher the rent would have been, and-- so it -- it would be a -- a nonsensical thing for thegovernment to engage in. th Street, NW Suite --FOR-DEPOWashington, DC MR. STEWART: Your Honor, the State's positionin this case is that by preserving a network of lesseedealers, there will be benefits to the public in terms oflower gasoline prices. And I think their -- their theoryis that those benefits would far outweigh the -- themodest decrease in rent, lost rent to the oil companies. And so that it -- it would make sense if the governmentwished to make that choice and -- and to pay compensation,if the government's theory were correct. And one of the values of the Just CompensationClause and the constitutional rights that it protects isthat it forces that choice to be made. It -- it puts thedecision on budget as opposed to off budget. JUSTICE GINSBURG: Well, why wouldn't it makesense then for the government to say, Chevron, you chargewhat you want and, station owner, we, the government,gives you -- Hawaii gives you this money so you'll be ableto pay the excess rent? MR. STEWART: In fact, we believe that is -- is,in essence, what is occurring here. There -- there is noclaim that the rents that Chevron or the other oilcompanies were charging are excessive or that they havebeen the cause of any problem in the State of Hawaii thatHawaii is trying to address. JUSTICE BREYER: Explain it -- explain your th Street, NW Suite --FOR-DEPOWashington, DC theory in terms of the example. That is, imagine that thebenefits of the network of dealers of gasoline into thecommunity are fabulous and obvious. So there's a greatreason for doing this. Now, why is it that, on yourtheory, the government shouldn't have to pay compensationthen, but it should have to pay compensation just becausethe benefits are not obvious, that they're bizarre, thatthey don't -- may not really exist? That's -- you see whyI'm having a problem? MR. STEWART: Let me see if I can get to itbetter, Your Honor. One reading of the Takings Clause,the Just Compensation Clause, would be that the governmentshould pay compensation in those circumstances where it isdepriving property owners of protected property rights. But in Pennsylvania Coal, the Court said in the regulatorytakings area, because of the need for the government tofunction, we are going to allow the government in certaincircumstances to -- to interfere with rights withoutpaying for them. And the inquiry that we're saying theCourt should make is whether that need exists and whetherthe burden being imposed serves that need. And -- and again, I'd like to emphasize thatthis should not be considered an unfamiliar concept inconstitutional law. This Court has consistentlyrecognized that when the government seeks to intrude on th Street, NW Suite --FOR-DEPOWashington, DC protected -- rights protected by explicit provisions inthe Constitution, on the basis that its needs, itslegitimate interests require that intrusion, then thecourt's role to enforce the constitutional protections isto make that inquiry into whether the need is -- is beingactually served. Now, I'd like to at -- at this point emphasizethat our position is not that no deference may be given tolegislative judgments under this test. Our position issimply that it must be more than a mere rational basistest. The reason why the Court, in repudiating theLochner-era cases, has held that mere rationality isenough to satisfy the constitutional standard is thatthere was no specific constitutional prohibition. In the-- and -- and the Court specifically distinguished thosecircumstances in which there is a constitutional right -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: But there are so many thingsthat you could dress up as being a taking. And -- and soit seems to me that it's up to the artful pleader to saywhether this is a due process excessive regulation or thisis intrusive to the point where it amounts to a taking. I mean, the -- the -- would you -- rent controlis one. What about -- suppose Hawaii had said, we'regoing to cap the price of gas so it will make it easierfor these stations to survive. th Street, NW Suite --FOR-DEPOWashington, DC MR. STEWART: I think, Your Honor, that mostcourts have recognized, although I don't know that it'ssettled, that a -- a control on the price of a productthat -- that a business has produced would implicate theTakings Clause. And -- and in that circumstance, thesubstantially advances test almost certainly would be met,and our -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: Do we have a case involvingprice control where we have analyzed that as a taking? MR. STEWART: Yes. The Florida Power case v.the FCC where there was a regulation on the prices thattelecommunications companies could charge for access totheir poles. Back in the war era, there was casesinvolving rent control where the Court found that the rentcontrol was justified because there was a marketdistortion caused by the extraordinary imbalance in -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: I didn't know that those weretreated as taking cases. MR. STEWART: I believe they were, Your Honor,and that they have been -- that this Court has discussedthem in those terms. But I would like to, if I could, address thebroader point that I believe Your Honor was -- was making,which is can these claims just simply be repackaged and --and sweep into the takings analysis all of the regulation th Street, NW Suite --FOR-DEPOWashington, DC and apply to it the very same test that the Court hasrepudiated in Lochner. And the answer to that I believeis clearly no. The -- the Just Compensation Clause is limitedto rights of private property, would not extend -- and Idon't believe there's anything in this Court's precedentsthat would require it that it extend to the kinds of laws,minimum wage laws, wage and hour provisions, regulationson the size of bread loaves, that were the professionallicensing requirements that were the subject of theLochner-era cases. And the Due Process Clause extends even toexpectancy interests or -- or reliance interests ongovernmental benefit programs. Nothing in our positionhere would -- would apply to that because those, we don'tbelieve, have ever been held and -- and should not be heldto be covered within the specific provision of the JustCompensation Clause. Your Honors, in Nollan and Dolan and FirstEnglish, this Court recognized that the Just CompensationClause is not a poor relation among the provisions of theBill of Rights. In First English, the Court recognizedthat the constitutional provisions by their very naturelimit the freedom and flexibility of the government inorder to protect constitutional rights. And the Court in th Street, NW Suite --FOR-DEPOWashington, DC First English said that the Just Compensation Clause ofthe Fifth Amendment is one such provision. And our position here is that thisconstitutional right, that private property shall not betaken without just compensation, should be entitled to thesame protection as the other constitutional protections inthe Bill of Rights, and that just as with respect to thoserights, when the government seeks to intrude on thoseinterests, the court should properly inquire into thenature of that intrusion and the justification for thatintrusion. Thank you. JUSTICE O'CONNOR: Thank you. Attorney General Bennett, you have minutesremaining. REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF MARK J. BENNETT ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS MR. BENNETT: Your Honors, this case is notabout compensation. Indeed, Chevron's discussion ofcompensation -- the first time that that occurred in theentirety of this case was in its brief in this Court, aswe point out, in particular, in footnote at page ofour reply brief. This case is, indeed, about whether thiseconomic regulation is legitimate. The Ninth Circuit'stest was it doesn't work well enough, so it is th Street, NW Suite --FOR-DEPOWashington, DC illegitimate. That type of a test belongs under the DueProcess Clause, not under the Just Compensation Clause. This Court has time and time again said that itis not going to set up separate per se tests except invery limited circumstances and, indeed, it's not going todivide parcels in the way Chevron suggests here andwhether it's in Tahoe-Sierra or Penn Central or Keystone,the Court has said, absent taking all value or use of theproperty or in Loretto, in the case of a physicalinvasion, it is going to allow these types of regulatorytakings tests to be judged under Penn Central. What Chevron is arguing for here is a separatetest outside of Penn Central, divorced from economicimpact, that concerns solely the legitimacy of the regulation. We suggest that that belongs in due process. We believe that what the Court should do is saythat what was stated in Agins does not state a standalonetest. Tests for judging the legitimacy of a regulationbelong in due process based upon a rational basis test andthat other than the very limited per se categories thatthis Court has established, regulatory takings claimsdepend on economic impact and belong under the PennCentral analysis. Thank you. JUSTICE O'CONNOR: The case is submitted. th Street, NW Suite --FOR-DEPOWashington, DC (Whereupon, at : p.m., the case in theabove-entitled matter was submitted.) th Street, NW Suite --FOR-DEPOWashington, DC 