 IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - xARTHUR ANDERSEN LLP, : Petitioner, : v. : No. -UNITED STATES :- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x Washington, D.C. Wednesday, April , The above-entitled matter came on for oralargument before the Supreme Court of the United States at: a.m.APPEARANCES:MAUREEN E. MAHONEY, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf of the Petitioner.MICHAEL R. DREEBEN, ESQ., Deputy Solicitor General, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on behalf of the Respondent. th Street, NW Suite --FOR-DEPOWashington, DC C O In T E In T SORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGEMAUREEN E. MAHONEY, ESQ. On behalf of the Petitioner ORAL ARGUMENT OFMICHAEL R. DREEBEN, ESQ. On behalf of the Respondent REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OFMAUREEN E. MAHONEY, ESQ. On behalf of the Petitioner th Street, NW Suite --FOR-DEPOWashington, DC P R O C E E D I In G S [: a.m.] CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: We'll hear argumentnow in Arthur Andersen v. United States. Ms. Mahoney. ORAL ARGUMENT OF MAUREEN E. MAHONEY ON BEHALF OF PETITIONER MS. MAHONEY: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court: The Government concedes that the destruction ofdocuments in anticipation of a proceeding was not a crimein the fall of based upon a statutory rule thatCongress had preserved for over a century. The centralquestion in this case is whether Congress, nevertheless,intended to make a polite request to engage in that lawfulconduct, a form of witness tampering punishable by tenyears in prison. We ask this Court to reject thatinterpretation of the statute and to hold that ArthurAndersen did not commit a crime. I'd like to turn first to the term "corruptlypersuade" as it's used in Section and explain whyArthur Andersen's interpretation represents not only areasonable reading, but the best reading of the languagein the statute. The first thing that we see when we look at the th Street, NW Suite --FOR-DEPOWashington, DC statutory context is that Congress did not prohibit -- didnot prohibit -- all persuasion to destroy documents forthe specific purpose of making them unavailable for use inan official proceeding. It did not, because it did notsimply say, "Anyone who persuades a witness to do this hasviolated the statute." It added a very importantlimitation, and that is the word "corruptly" -- "corruptlypersuades." So what kinds of requests are excluded from thedefinition? When is it that it's okay to persuade someoneto destroy a document for use in an official proceeding? And the answer, we think, based on the traditional meaningof the term "corruptly," is that "corruptly" means thatyou have persuaded someone in a fashion that uses impropermeans, such as bribery, or you've asked the witness toviolate duties imposed by other law, whether that's theduties imposed by contempt or the duties imposed by awhole range of statutes that govern the obligations ofpeople in our society. JUSTICE KENNEDY: But suppose you persuaded --and I know that is not this case -- suppose you persuadedthe person to destroy the documents in order to conceal afraud. Would that be corrupt? MS. MAHONEY: If -- Your Honor, if it was acrime, then, yes -- th Street, NW Suite --FOR-DEPOWashington, DC JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, in order to -- let's sayit's a revenue audit, and you know that it's a fraud, andyou persuade somebody to destroy the documents in order toconceal the fraud. MS. MAHONEY: Okay, if this is in a -- in thecourse of a proceeding, of course, it's obviously going tobe a crime, it's obviously going to be prohibited bySection . If it is in advance of a proceeding -- andlet's assume that you know that a proceeding -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: Yes. MS. MAHONEY: -- is likely, then the answerdepends on whether you know that you are concealing --that you know a crime has been committed. And if you knowthat a crime has bee committed, then you are violating afederal statute, U.S.C. -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: My question is, Does that give-- would that give some content to the meaning of"corruptly," in your view? MS. MAHONEY: Well, in that case, if the witnessknows that you have committed a crime, and you are askingthem to violate, they have a duty, under thosecircumstances, not to assist you in concealing youroffense. That's a duty that's imposed by criminal law. So if you ask them to violate that duty, then you arecorrupting that witness; and, very definitely, that would th Street, NW Suite --FOR-DEPOWashington, DC fall within the interpretation of the statute that ArthurAndersen is advancing here. And it fits, Your Honor, with what Congressreally did for a hundred years before . What it didis, it said that -- under the Pettibone rule, that it isnot a crime to simply destroy documents in anticipation ofa proceeding. But if you know that -- if you know that acrime has been -- a crime has been committed and youdestroy documents, that is a crime. JUSTICE O'CONNOR: May I -- MS. MAHONEY: That's a crime -- JUSTICE O'CONNOR: -- may I ask you aboutanother provision, Section (c)? And that says, thischapter -- and it -- and it's referring back to Section -- "does not prohibit or punish the providing oflawful bona fide legal representation services inconnection with, or anticipation of, an officialproceeding." Now, how -- did Ms. Temple invoke that provisionin this case? MS. MAHONEY: Your Honor, the -- that sectionwas not argued to the District Court, but it was invokedin the following way, in two ways. First of all, therewas evidence introduced in the case that she was providinglegal advice. And since it is not in affirmative defense, th Street, NW Suite --FOR-DEPOWashington, DC it really was the Government's burden at all times, atleast once there was evidence introduced that she wasproviding legal advice, to get a finding from the jurythat she was not engaged in bona fide and lawful services,particularly in this case, Your Honor, where theGovernment argued, told the jury, that Nancy Temple wasthe, quote, "central figure," end quote, in this -- inthis episode. And in addition -- JUSTICE SCALIA: How do you know it's not anaffirmative defense? MS. MAHONEY: Well, it doesn't read like anaffirmative defense, Your Honor. It doesn't say"affirmative defense." It simply -- and in -- when it wasintroduced, it was listed in the legislation as a Rule ofConstruction. And I think that's exactly how it reads. It doesn't purport to put the burden of proof on Andersen,or on Nancy Temple. And, Your honor, I think, actually -- JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, of course, it has theword "lawful," "the providing of lawful bona fide legalrepresentation services." So, you know, it could beargued that if she violating the other provisions, she'sstill in violation. MS. MAHONEY: Well, Your Honor, under theGovernment's definition of "corruptly," she couldn't have th Street, NW Suite --FOR-DEPOWashington, DC been providing lawful bona fide services. JUSTICE O'CONNOR: Well, that's what I want toknow, is, in light of the Government's position and theway this case was resolved, how does that fit, and whatdoes it do to, that so-called safe-harbor provision? I'mjust curious how it all plays out. MS. MAHONEY: Your Honor, I think it negates itin its entirety, because what the jury was instructed inthis case was that any intent to impede the fact-findingability of a possible future proceeding, even if theAndersen employee had a good-faith and sincere belief thattheir conduct conformed to the law, was corrupt. Theywere instructed that they must find that. JUSTICE O'CONNOR: Well, does that have theeffect of negating the safe-harbor provision, in yourview? MS. MAHONEY: Absolutely. But I think, YourHonor -- because I think it would be impossible to satisfyit under this instruction. In addition, I also think thatthe -- that this provision really just demonstrates thatthe Government's interpretation of "corruptly" is wrong,to begin with. JUSTICE O'CONNOR: What's the effect, in(b), of the word "knowingly"? MS. MAHONEY: I think, Your Honor, that th Street, NW Suite --FOR-DEPOWashington, DC "knowingly" means, in this context -- just as it means"knowingly intimidate," "knowingly threatened," "knowinglycorruptly persuade" -- that means that you have to knowthat your persuasion is asking the witness to violatetheir duties, to violate the law. You have to know thatit's corrupt. JUSTICE SOUTER: Isn't that satisfied at leastby the part of the definition that refers to "subvertingan official proceeding"? I mean, that certainly carries,to me, the implication that you realize that you're doingsomething wrong. An official proceeding is, prima facieat least, lawful, and you are subverting it. Doesn't thatsatisfy the "knowingly" requirement? MS. MAHONEY: I don't think so, Your Honor,because the definition that was given to this jury was"subvert, undermine, or impede," and not just theintegrity of the proceeding; but, rather, the fact-findingability of a future proceeding -- JUSTICE SOUTER: I -- MS. MAHONEY: -- including a governmentalinquiry. JUSTICE SOUTER: -- I think I would go far inagreeing with you if the -- if the instruction had been"merely to impede" or "merely to undermine." Now, I guessthat gets to a question I wanted somebody to answer, and th Street, NW Suite --FOR-DEPOWashington, DC you can probably do it. Did the -- did the Court, ingiving the instructions, ever refer -- in defining theterm, ever refer to any of these three possibilities,separately, or did it do it simply as "subvert, undermine,or" -- what was the third? -- impede"? MS. MAHONEY: Impede. I believe -- I believe itwas done as a -- as a -- as a group. JUSTICE SOUTER: Okay. It did -- MS. MAHONEY: But it says "or." JUSTICE SOUTER: I -- one other question. Inanticipation of that instruction -- I assume the counselnew what was coming -- did the Government ever argue tothe jury that "merely impeding," alone, or "merelyundermining," alone, would be sufficient, as distinct fromsaying, "If he subverts, undermines, and impedes"? MS. MAHONEY: Your Honor, I'm not certain of theanswer, except that I do know that the Government didargue that simply -- the mere idea that David Duncantestified that, you know, he thought that the -- somebodyat the SEC might want to look at this information somedaywas sufficient to satisfy the instructions. And so, Ithink it is a fair inference that the way that they arguedthis case to the jury was that any intent to keep any kindof information away from the SEC was enough to satisfy thedefinition in this case. And, in fact, Your Honor, when th Street, NW Suite --FOR-DEPOWashington, DC the instructions were being debated, the patterninstruction for the Fifth Circuit for "corruptly," under, actually is -- includes the words "knowingly ordishonestly to subvert the integrity of the proceeding." The Government insisted that the word "dishonestly" not beused, that the word "impede" be added, and they changed"fact-finding" a bit -- changed it from "subverting theproceedings" to "the fact-finding ability." They dideverything they could to strip this instruction of anymens rea, and then went beyond that and said, "And inaddition, even if the Andersen employees had a good-faithand sincere belief that their conduct did not violate thelaw, it's still a crime." So, what we have here is an array of testimonyfrom people who say, "We honestly believed that this waspermissible conduct," but the jury was told that they hadto convict anyway if there was any possible partialmotivation to impede possible future fact-finding -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: How does -- MS. MAHONEY: -- of an inquiry. JUSTICE GINSBURG: -- how does -- how does DavidDuncan's guilty plea -- he entered a plea of guilty to acharge of obstruction, and he confessed the intent toimpede the SEC investigation by shredding documents. So,what were the elements of that offense that are absent in th Street, NW Suite --FOR-DEPOWashington, DC this one? MS. MAHONEY: Your Honor, he plead guilty to theoffense, as described to him and agreed upon between himand his lawyer; in other -- and the Government -- which isbasically the instruction that was given in this case. When he testified in this proceeding, he repeatedly said,despite his guilty plea, that he did not believe, at thetime, that he had done anything unlawful or improper. Hesaid, "I thought my conduct was perfectly appropriate. Iplead guilty because I was persuaded that it didn't matterwhat I thought at the time." JUSTICE SCALIA: What sentence did he get, bythe way? MS. MAHONEY: He's not been sentenced yet, YourHonor. And he was explicit throughout. He also said --he never testified that he even thought that an SECproceeding was probable at the time; he just thought itwas possible. Nor did he say that he ever consciouslytried to hide the truth or hide the facts. What he didsay is that, "Yes, part of what was on my mind at the timethat I asked for compliance with this policy was that theSEC and others might want to look at these files someday,and I'd better get them in compliance with our retentionpolicy, because I know that drafts and notes are the kinds th Street, NW Suite --FOR-DEPOWashington, DC of things that could be misused and misconstrued at somepoint in the future." That was the basis of his guiltyplea, that was the basis of his testimony in this case. And the Government's interpretation, the instructions thatwere given to this jury, deprived the term "corruptlypersuade" of any of its ordinary and traditional meaning. Under the Government's view, for instance, of"corruptly," bribery becomes irrelevant under thisstatute. I mean, if you look at this statute, and yousay, "What was Congress trying to prohibit here when itsays" -- it's a got a list of wrongful means ofinterfering with witnesses. It says "intimidate" and"threaten" and "use of physical force," and it says"corruptly persuades." The first thing that would come toyour mind is bribery. But bribery is irrelevant under theGovernment's interpretation, and let me explain why.Because they say that, "Well, yes, it's true, it says'corruptly persuade,' but all that means if you -- is ifyou had any intent to impede the fact-finding ability of aproceeding, then you're guilty, just for asking. Itdoesn't matter whether you used any money -- monetarycompensation in order to extract this behavior; you'reautomatically guilty. But if you use bribery -- JUSTICE SCALIA: I assume it also would make"intimidate," and so forth, quite superfluous. th Street, NW Suite --FOR-DEPOWashington, DC MS. MAHONEY: It absolutely would, Your Honor,because it would basically cover any kind of request. But, in addition, they say that under theirdefinition what it really means is that if you did it forsome other motive, if you got them to destroy the documentso that it couldn't be used in an official proceeding --and that was your intent, that it couldn't be used in anofficial proceeding -- and you bribed them to do it, butyour motive was to avoid embarrassment, it would not be acrime. Under Andersen's interpretation, it would still bea crime, because of course you have corruptly persuadedthem to destroy a document for use in an officialproceeding, even if -- at the appropriate time, if thereis a nexus -- because it doesn't matter whether you weretrying to avoid embarrassment; if you were bribing them tokeep it out of the -- of the proceeding, of course thatwould be covered by the traditional definition of"corruptly persuade." JUSTICE KENNEDY: Suppose you're anticipating arevenue audit from the Internal Revenue Service or fromthe SEC, and you destroy certain documents that you're notrequired to keep, but that would make the officials' taskeasier; he you could perform the audit in just a couple ofdays, instead of -- it's going to take him a week. Canyou make it harder for him? th Street, NW Suite --FOR-DEPOWashington, DC MS. MAHONEY: Your Honor, under Section ,now, it may well be that that is criminal behavior,because it -- Congress has now, basically, required you topreserve documents. But, at the time, no, that would nothave been a crime. And if you could do it yourself, thenasking your wife to throw them out instead can't be whatCongress really had in mind under Section . You know,hypothetical, the man could throw it out himself and notgo to jail, but if he asked his wife to do it, then hegoes to jail for ten years. JUSTICE KENNEDY: There is, in the case, thislingering feeling that something's wrong out there. Iknow that we don't -- we don't convict people on thatbasis; we require something more specific. MS. MAHONEY: Well, and I think that thisstatute, reasonably read, Your Honor, tells you exactlywhat that specific thing is. If you intimidate them, ifyou mislead them, if you use physical force, if youcorruptly persuade them. And that means either you'veused unlawful means, like bribery, or you asked them toviolate their independent legal duties. And thatdefinition, Your Honor, is quite consistent with thetraditional interpretation of the term "corruptly," evenin the obstruction statutes. And I'd like to just emphasize, for instance, in th Street, NW Suite --FOR-DEPOWashington, DC a tampering case, a juror tampering case that preceded thecongressional adoption of the term "corruptly persuades,"the Jackson case, the jury was specifically instructedthat "corruptly" means "knowingly and willfully, with thespecific intent to influence a juror to violate his dutiesas a petit juror." Similarly, in Aguilar, in the District Court, thejury was instructed -- that was a tampering case -- quote,"an act is done corruptly if it is done voluntarily andintentionally to bring about either an unlawful result ora lawful result by some unlawful method," end quote. This is exactly parallel to the interpretation thatAndersen is asking this Court to adopt. And if that ifthat interpretation is adopted, it makes sense of thisstatute. If this statute isn't read in reference to theviolation of other legal duties, than it covers a wholerange of conduct that is unquestionably innocent -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: Suppose I just don't like theIRS, and I know they're coming. I have some very detailedsummaries which will give them the answer they need rightaway. I throw away those summaries and make them go backto the original records just to make it tough for them. Can I do that? MS. MAHONEY: Section , I don't think youcan. Could you have done that in the -- in the fall of th Street, NW Suite --FOR-DEPOWashington, DC ? Yes, Your Honor, you could. What that reallyreflects is the Pettibone rule. The Pettibone rule, for ahundred years, was that destruction and other kinds ofacts of potential obstruction in advance of a proceedingwere not a crime. JUSTICE SCALIA: Ms. Mahoney, we -- you know, weall know that what are euphemistically termed "record-retention programs" are, in fact, record-destructionprograms, and that one of the purposes of the destructionis to eliminate from the files information that privateindividuals can use for lawsuits and that Governmentinvestigators can use for investigations. And there hasbeen nothing unlawful about having such a program, even ifone of your purposes is not to leave lying around in thefile stuff that can be used against you by either thegovernment or a private individual. So, I would have thought that your argument wasvery persuasive, except for the fact of . I thinkthat gives me cause to believe that Congress could,indeed, say, "You can't have record-retention programs." How else do you interpret ? MS. MAHONEY: Well, they certainly hadn't saidit in the fall of , Your Honor. And so, for thatreason -- JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, but I -- well, yeah, but th Street, NW Suite --FOR-DEPOWashington, DC -- MS. MAHONEY: But -- JUSTICE SCALIA: -- but your argument is, youknow, "It's inconceivable that they would have meantthat." But, my -- they said it in -- MS. MAHONEY: Well -- JUSTICE SCALIA: -- -- in . MS. MAHONEY: -- let me put it this way. Ifthey're gonna -- if they're going to say it, though, theyhave to say it with very clear language, because,otherwise, there would be no fair warning. You couldn'tconclude from the language of the witness-tamperingstatute, which is designed to protect witnesses, thatCongress had made all record-retention programs unlawful. I also think, Your Honor, that when it comestime to construe Section , some kind of nexus willhave to be, you know, reasonably read in there, because,otherwise, you are correct, all document retentionpolicies, or virtually all of them, are fatally doomed. CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: And what is a"document"? I mean, in Justice Kennedy's example, is itjust some handwritten notes? Do they become "documents"? MS. MAHONEY: Absolutely, Your Honor. And, inthis case, the evidence was quite clear that, you know,Andersen retained its work papers, and the work papers th Street, NW Suite --FOR-DEPOWashington, DC were extremely extensive, and they were required to fullydocument the audit. The only things that were thrown awaywere notes and preliminary drafts, which had already beenincorporated, in effect, into the final conclusions in thework papers; and yet that was the whole theory of thiscase, is that there were some documents that weredestroyed. They were precisely the kinds of documentsthat document-retention policies are designed toeliminate, in part -- for a variety of reasons, but, inpart, because they are preliminary in character and theycan be misconstrued. For instance, Your Honor, the FBI agents,generally speaking, have the practice of not keeping theirnotes of interviews. They take those notes, they make afile memorandum, they throw away the notes. Why do theydo that? Of course they know the defendant would love tohave those notes when it comes time for a trial. They doit because they feel that they have written it up in anaccurate way, and enough's enough. That's what we're talking about here, Your Honor. And there was nothing in the language of that wouldhave put Andersen on notice that its document-retentionpolicy was -- well, in fact, the Government doesn't sayits document retention was a crime; it says it wasn't acrime. Instead, the crime was when David Duncan asked his th Street, NW Suite --FOR-DEPOWashington, DC secretary to throw away documents that he could havethrown away, lawfully, himself. This statute does notgive fair warning that that -- JUSTICE O'CONNOR: Was Section at issue? MS. MAHONEY: No, Your Honor. Section didnot get passed until the year . It did not exist. Instead, the rule that was in force then was the Pettibonerule, the one that's reflected in the text of Section; and that is, "the proceeding must be pending." That's, no doubt, why the Government didn't chargeAndersen with a crime under Section . I mean, theymake it sound like the culpability here is the destructionof records. Well, if so, then you would think that theywould have charged Andersen with destroying documents -- JUSTICE SCALIA: Wait a minute -- MS. MAHONEY: -- but they didn't. JUSTICE SCALIA: -- wasn't there anotherprovision in effect that said it doesn't matter whetherthe -- whether the proceeding is pending? I forget whichone it is. MS. MAHONEY: Well, that -- no, that's just --- that's , for witness tampering. But for the act ofdestroying documents to interfere with a proceeding -- JUSTICE SCALIA: Right. MS. MAHONEY: -- that's Section , and the th Street, NW Suite --FOR-DEPOWashington, DC proceeding must be pending. And that is -- that is stillthe rule today, Your Honor. JUSTICE KENNEDY: But I -- just to make itclear, I take it you would still have the same objectionto the deficiency of the corruption instruction, even if aproceeding were pending, or am I wrong about that? MS. MAHONEY: Well, if a proceeding is -- yes,we would, in this case. Yes, absolutely. But, you know,if a proceeding is pending, then it changed the -- changesthe way that you apply the definition of "corruptly." Butyou're certainly right that the definition is the same. The question is, under the proper definition of"corruptly," did you induce the witnesses to engage inthis activity through improper means, such as bribery, ordid you try to get them to violate their independent legalduties? For instance, if they had duties, under Section, not to destroy, then it makes perfect sense, becausewhat you have done is, you have asked the witness toengage in conduct which violates the law, and thatcorrupts them, it harms them, it fits with the purposes ofthe statute, it fits with the structure. JUSTICE GINSBURG: So, it was proper, then, forMichael Odom to tell the Andersen personnel when he'sencouraging them to follow the policy -- he said, "If it'sdestroyed in the course of normal policy and litigation, th Street, NW Suite --FOR-DEPOWashington, DC and litigation is filed the next day, that's great. Wefollowed our policy, and whatever there was that mighthave been of interest to somebody, it's gone andirretrievable." MS. MAHONEY: Yes, Your Honor. JUSTICE GINSBURG: That's fine for him to makethat linkage between, "Destroy it. Maybe there's going tobe litigation filed tomorrow." "That's great. It will begone"? MS. MAHONEY: Your Honor, at the time that hemade that statement, what that statement actually reflectsis the Pettibone rule. He was accurate in his -- in hisstatement about what the law was governing documentdestruction at the time. That's a good-faith reasonablebelief that was absolutely supported by the law. But, more importantly, Your Honor, if we look at Mr.Odom's remarks, he wasn't working -- he wasn't -- thiswasn't in connection with the Enron engagement; there wereonly, I think, ten people, out of, like, , at thattraining seminar that had anything to do with Enron. Hewas talking about the firm's document-retention policy. The jury asked to see that videotape. They may haveactually convicted Andersen based upon his remarks aboutthe document-retention policy. They, similarly, may haveconvicted Andersen based upon Nancy Temple's memos that -- th Street, NW Suite --FOR-DEPOWashington, DC one of which was a reminder to the engagement team thatthey were supposed to applying -- complying with thedocument-retention policy. That's legal services. This -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: Odom wasn't saying this inthe abstract. There were other proceedings, weren'tthere? MS. MAHONEY: No, Your Honor, it was just atraining session that was just a -- a section of thetraining session. It has -- literally, I think there were attendees, only about ten of them -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: At the time of that training,were there not other proceedings involving ArthurAndersen? MS. MAHONEY: No, Your Honor. No, I don'tbelieve so. That's -- JUSTICE SOUTER: There were, involving Enron, atthat point, isn't that correct? The -- Enron had gottenthe letter? MS. MAHONEY: No, Your Honor. That was onOctober the th. The letter did not come until Octoberthe th. Andersen learned about it on October the th. I'd like to save the remainder of my time forrebuttal, please. CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: Very well, Ms. th Street, NW Suite --FOR-DEPOWashington, DC Mahoney. Mr. Dreeben, we'll hear from you. ORAL ARGUMENT OF MICHAEL R. DREEBEN ON BEHALF OF RESPONDENT MR. DREEBEN: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court: Arthur Andersen's conduct in this case explainswhy Congress enacted a statute like Section thatprotects against the anticipatory destruction of documentswhen a proceeding is -- JUSTICE O'CONNOR: Well, Section , enactedsubsequently, comes closer to the mark, doesn't it, than? MR. DREEBEN: Justice O'Connor, Section wasenacted after the events -- JUSTICE O'CONNOR: Right. MR. DREEBEN: -- in this case in order to plugthe loophole that Arthur Andersen has pointed out existedin Section at the time. JUSTICE SCALIA: So you think it's superfluous. , if you win this case, really is just an exercise infutility, because the law already did what said. MR. DREEBEN: No. The law did not already dowhat says. JUSTICE SCALIA: Wherein does it go further? th Street, NW Suite --FOR-DEPOWashington, DC MR. DREEBEN: It reaches single-actorobstructive conduct. What Ms. Mahoney has said -- JUSTICE O'CONNOR: Well, what about thePettibone interpretation that has been outstanding for along time? MR. DREEBEN: Pettibone applied, JusticeO'Connor, to a specific statute, Section , and it'ssimilarly incorporated in . Those statutes protectedagainst obstruction of pending judicial, administrative,and congressional proceedings. The innovation in Section was to reach beyond the existence of a pendingproceeding and to ensure that basically the store doesn'tget robbed before the proceeding starts. If Arthur Andersen is correct, the anticipation of agrand jury investigation that is thought to occur the nextday, a corporation can send out a directive to itsemployees and say, "Shred all the smoking guns." It's thecorporate equivalent of seeing something that looks like acrime scene and sending somebody in before the police canget the yellow tape up to wipe down the fingerprints. JUSTICE SCALIA: When can they do it? When canthey do it? You didn't allege here that it was inanticipation of any particular proceeding. You say theycan't do it once they know that the investigation is onthe way. But your theory in this case is that they can't th Street, NW Suite --FOR-DEPOWashington, DC do it, whether they know the investigation is on the wayor not. They can't destroy any evidence that might be thesubject of an investigation. MR. DREEBEN: No, that's not our theory -- JUSTICE SCALIA: What is your theory? MR. DREEBEN: Our theory is that a person actscorruptly when anticipating a reasonable possibility of aninvestigation into a specific matter, directs anotherperson to destroy documents that are potentially relevant. JUSTICE SCALIA: "A reasonable possibility of aninvestigation." MR. DREEBEN: That's right. JUSTICE SCALIA: And you want criminal liabilityto turn upon that. MR. DREEBEN: I think that -- JUSTICE SCALIA: Whether or not there is areasonable possibility of an investigation. You wantsomebody to go to jail on how a jury decides thatquestion. MR. DREEBEN: I don't think there's anythingunusual about the decision of that kind of question atall. It's a analogous, but different and quitedistinguishable nexus requirement from the kind of nexusrequirement that this Court interpreted Section tohave in the -- th Street, NW Suite --FOR-DEPOWashington, DC JUSTICE KENNEDY: Suppose I have a company and Iknow that the pattern is, I'm going to be audited everyfive years by the IRS. And in year four, I -- one year --one year before the investigation, I instruct mybookkeeping staff, "Keep everything you need to documentour expenses, but destroy everything that's remotelyrelated to that, or indirectly related to that. Give themjust a clean, simple file. Destroy anything that's -- allsupporting documentation. Give them what they need andwhat they're entitled to have, but nothing else. And step up that policy, because they're going to be here nextyear." Under your -- it seems to me that that violatesyour rule. MR. DREEBEN: Justice Kennedy, it turns onwhether the intent there is to subvert, undermine, orimpede the proceeding. And the answer is, if it is yes,then it would be prohibited by this statute. JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, it would be prohibited totell somebody to do it. MR. DREEBEN: That's right. JUSTICE SCALIA: But you could do it. The doingof it is perfectly okay. MR. DREEBEN: That was a -- JUSTICE SCALIA: Doesn't that seem strange toyou? th Street, NW Suite --FOR-DEPOWashington, DC MR. DREEBEN: It seemed strange to Congress,too. And when this case threw a spotlight on thatomission in the statute, Congress didn't react -- JUSTICE SCALIA: I would suggest that it throwsa spotlight on the fact that your theory is wrong. Itdoesn't -- [Laughter.] JUSTICE SCALIA: -- it doesn't make -- itdoesn't make any sense to make unlawful the asking ofsomebody to do something which is, itself, not unlawful,so that the person could do it, but if you asked them todo it, you're guilty, he's not guilty. And that's -- thatis weird. [Laughter.] MR. DREEBEN: What was weird about it, JusticeScalia, is that it allowed the person to do it himself. And when Congress -- JUSTICE O'CONNOR: Well, let me ask you aboutthis precise thing. Is it Mr. Duncan? If he had,himself, shredded the documents, or destroyed them, thatwas perfectly okay at the time it was done. MR. DREEBEN: It wasn't -- JUSTICE O'CONNOR: Is that right? MR. DREEBEN: -- prohibited by this statute. And when -- th Street, NW Suite --FOR-DEPOWashington, DC JUSTICE O'CONNOR: It would not have been aviolation. MR. DREEBEN: That's right. JUSTICE O'CONNOR: But the Government got theconviction, got him to plead guilty, apparently, on thebasis that if he asked somebody else to do what wasperfectly lawful for him to do, it would violate thestatute. MR. DREEBEN: That's right, Justice O'Connor. JUSTICE O'CONNOR: Well, what -- how do you readthat in coordination with the so-called safe-harborprovision for legal advice and so on? MR. DREEBEN: I don't think that the safe-harborprovision substantially bears on this case at all. Firstof all, Arthur Andersen never raised the safe-harborprovision, so that the Government would -- JUSTICE O'CONNOR: And the woman lawyer neverraised it, is that right? MR. DREEBEN: Nancy Temple was not a defendantin this case, but her conduct was at issue, because, afterhaving immediately recognized that an SEC investigationwas highly probable, Nancy Temple sends out a documentreminder saying -- JUSTICE O'CONNOR: Well -- MR. DREEBEN: -- basically, "purge the files." th Street, NW Suite --FOR-DEPOWashington, DC JUSTICE O'CONNOR: But under this statute, withthe safe-harbor provision in it, is it unlawful for her,as a lawyer, to say, "You can destroy these documents"? MR. DREEBEN: Yes, it is, in this case, if herintent was to subvert, undermine, or impede the -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: But your definition of"subvert, undermine" is, if you destroy any document thatmight raise a question, say, in the IRS audit. It seemsto me that is a sweeping position, which will causeproblems for every major corporation or small business inthis country. I just -- I just don't understand it. MR. DREEBEN: I don't think so, Justice Kennedy,because the Government's position here has never been thatthe mere existence of a document-destruction policy usedunder routine circumstances is a violation of the statute. What the Government focused on in this case was using adocument-destruction policy as a pretext and a cover toclean up and purge files when a government investigationwas anticipated and it was perceived that these materialswould be relevant. JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, that's like in -- theold -- the rule in the Army, "Make two copies ofeverything you throw out." I mean, that's what they'regoing to have to do. [Laughter.] th Street, NW Suite --FOR-DEPOWashington, DC MR. DREEBEN: I don't think -- JUSTICE BREYER: You used words -- MR. DREEBEN: Under this statute, JusticeKennedy, that's not the issue. I think the timeline hereis critical. This was not a company that was routinelyexercising a document-destruction policy, or document-retention policy, to maintain only that which wasnecessary for its ongoing business. JUSTICE SCALIA: Yes, it was. The trainingsession that you introduced in evidence was preciselythat, a general training session for all employees,saying, "This is our document," quote, "retention policy." MR. DREEBEN: Yes, but that was triggered, inpart, by Nancy Temple's recognition -- in the midst ofserving on a crisis response team, recognizing that Enronwas in the process of imploding, Arthur Andersen, whichwas basically on probation with the SEC -- because it hadbeen previously sanctioned, twice, during the priorsummer, and was under a cease and desist order -- andseeing the SEC coming down the pike, at that moment, shedecides to remind the Enron team, which had not been atall compliant with this document-retention policy, "It'stime to get the files in line." This wasn't because allof a sudden the company had become preoccupied withneatness; it was so that it could document, in its audit th Street, NW Suite --FOR-DEPOWashington, DC work papers, those things that supported its conclusions. That's what its document policy said. JUSTICE SCALIA: He says that occurred beforeEnron had even gotten a letter. MR. DREEBEN: But not -- JUSTICE SCALIA: That meeting. MR. DREEBEN: -- not before Enron's problems hadbegun to become -- surfacing in the Wall Street Journal,in the financial press, the stock price was sliding. Everybody who was sophisticated in this environment -- andsurely Arthur Andersen was -- knew that when a Fortune company is looking at a potential need to restate itsincome statements because the accountants have been --proved a black-and-white violation of GAAP, and they allknew that that was true, that SEC proceedings are likelyto occur. Even the witness -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: If you -- if you had allegedthat they did this in order to cover up a fraud, therewould be no problem. But what you're doing is to say it'sillegal to do what every other company in the country cando if they don't have an audit immediately on the horizon. I just don't understand it. MR. DREEBEN: No other company in the countrywould do this, Justice Kennedy. This is an extraordinarycase precisely because -- th Street, NW Suite --FOR-DEPOWashington, DC JUSTICE SCALIA: You say that it would beperfectly okay for this company, or any other one, todestroy their documents. What's bad is telling somebodyto destroy the documents. MR. DREEBEN: But in an organizational context,that's the only way that directives like this can be givenout and implemented. This wasn't a case of -- JUSTICE BREYER: I know you know that the --you've put your finger on a problem for me. You havesaid, Would it be the case that a person, before theproceeding begins, could simply tell somebody else todestroy the smoking gun? I understand that you fear thatAndersen's approach would lead to that result. And it'sbothering me. Therefore, I'd like you whether the word"corruptly" could include a person who knows three things:one, that the investigation, which has not yet started,almost certainly will want this document; two, there is nolegal right to withhold it; and, three, that if I tell himto do it, it will be destroyed -- I mean, that it'simportant to the investigation. Important to theinvestigation, they want it, it's cover-up, and they will,in fact, have no legal right to take it back. Now, wouldthat be "corrupt"? MR. DREEBEN: Yes, it would -- JUSTICE BREYER: Okay. th Street, NW Suite --FOR-DEPOWashington, DC MR. DREEBEN: -- be "corrupt." JUSTICE BREYER: Okay. IF that's "corrupt,"then does that cover this case? MR. DREEBEN: I think that it does cover thiscase, and -- JUSTICE BREYER: How? Because it seems to methere was quite a lot of -- by the way, the person who'sdoing the persuading has to know this. They have to knowthat it will be wanted, that it's important, and there isno legal right to withhold it. So it seems to me that, onthe one hand, that does cover your problem, and, on theother hand, it does not cover this case. Now, that's whatI'd like you to reply to. MR. DREEBEN: Well, Justice Breyer, I think thatthe facts of the case are subsumed within the descriptionthat you've given. The jury instructions did not requirefindings on all of those features; and that is, in largepart, because of the kinds of instructions that ArthurAndersen -- JUSTICE BREYER: No. The jury instruction leftout the word "corruptly," as far as I can see, in the partthat was critical. They define "corruptly" as simply anintent to impede. And the word "impede" goes well beyondwhat I've said, both because it does not cover the threethings, but, most particularly, because it does not say th Street, NW Suite --FOR-DEPOWashington, DC that it was dishonest or that the person who did thepersuading knew that the jury or the grand jury or theinvestigation would have the legal right to get thematerial and there was no right to withhold it. The wordsthat Arthur Andersen suggested, while they don't sayprecisely that, were at least a step in the rightdirection. MR. DREEBEN: The jury instruction said lessthan what you have suggested, Justice Breyer, no questionabout it, but what they did require was that there be anintent to undermine, subvert, or impede the investigation. I think -- JUSTICE SOUTER: Wasn't -- wasn't thatinstruction, itself, undermined by what I understand to bethe instruction that good-faith belief in the legality ofwhat was being done was no defense? I mean, if you had aninstruction that depended upon the word "subvert," I could-- I could understand your argument. But it seems to methat the difficulty with your argument, and the difficultywith your answer to Justice Breyer, is that it went beyond"subvert" to merely "impede," and it included aninstruction that good faith was no defense. MR. DREEBEN: Justice Souter, this is tostatute, and the word "corruptly" is not a word, that hasbeen ever construed to require consciousness of th Street, NW Suite --FOR-DEPOWashington, DC illegality. That is a -- JUSTICE SCALIA: How about "knowingly"? JUSTICE O'CONNOR: Yeah, the word "knowingly." JUSTICE SCALIA: How about "knowingly"? Doesthat -- does that usually connote knowledge of theillegality? MR. DREEBEN: Definitely not. The word"knowingly" usually connotes knowledge of the underlyingfacts. And, in this case -- JUSTICE SCALIA: "Knowingly corruptly." MR. DREEBEN: The word "knowingly" does nottravel down the statute to modify "corruptly." It -- JUSTICE SOUTER: I don't see why it doesn't. Imean, there's no grammatical break. MR. DREEBEN: Well, there is a logical break,because if it travel down the statute and reach all theway to "misleading conduct," what Congress would havewritten is a statute, when you read the definition of"misleading conduct," that says, "whoever knowinglyknowingly makes a false statement," because the definitionof misleading conduct includes "knowingly making falsestatements," "knowingly omitting things," "intentionallyengaging in deceptive behavior." And you'd end up with a-- in a redundancy that makes no sense whatsoever. It makes sense for Congress to have said, th Street, NW Suite --FOR-DEPOWashington, DC "knowingly used force or intimidation." But then when youget to the word "threat," there is inherent knowledge init. "Corruptly" inherently embodies knowledge. And thedefinition of "misleading conduct" inherently -- JUSTICE SOUTER: Well, it's certainly -- MR. DREEBEN: -- embodies knowledge. JUSTICE SOUTER: I mean, I will -- I will grantyou that the definition that the Government asked for, andgot, for "corruptly persuades," does have thatimplication, so far as the "subvert" prong is concerned. But when you get beyond the "subvert" prong, and you getdown to the third one, "merely to impede," you're gettingpretty thin, so far as the -- as the implication ofknowledge of wrongdoing is concerned, and you've still gothe problem of the instruction that negated good faith isa defense. MR. DREEBEN: Let me try to address each ofthose. First of all, the words were used as a definitionof "improper purpose," and they were used together,"subvert, undermine, or impede," and they logically have arelationship to each other. When the Court of Appealslooked at those words and defined them, which it did, ittalked about subversion and undermining as being a ruiningof the proceedings and an overthrow of the attempt thatthe Government was anticipated to make. And I think, th Street, NW Suite --FOR-DEPOWashington, DC "impede" has to be read logically in that group. Now, Iwill acknowledge that "impeding" can have broaderconnotations, but it's not a word that's is foreign to theobstruction -- JUSTICE SOUTER: Why did -- if that is so, whydid you need it? In other words, you had a -- you had apattern instruction, apparently, that was -- that waskeyed to "subversion," which I think would be an easyargument for you. If the addition of "impede" reallywasn't adding that much, why did you ask the Court to putit in there? MR. DREEBEN: Here is what it adds, JusticeSouter. "Undermine" and "subvert" have a connotation ofcompletely preventing the performance of the official dutyin the proceeding. "Impede" removes any implication thatyou need to totally thwart the government activity inorder to be guilty of this crime. It's enough to"interfere" with it, which is the word that the Court ofAppeals used to define it. CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: But you couldundermine and be unsuccessful. It's not as thoughundermine means that you're necessarily going to succeed. MR. DREEBEN: No, but it was to avoid anyconnotation that the jurors might put on the linkage ofthose words that the Government sought the use of the word th Street, NW Suite --FOR-DEPOWashington, DC "impede." And I should note that it appears, in Section, Section -- JUSTICE O'CONNOR: But not in . MR. DREEBEN: That's correct. That's correct. But what -- JUSTICE O'CONNOR: It's not there. MR. DREEBEN: -- what the Government was doingin this instance was attempting to give content to theword "corruptly" that would enable the jurors to know thatthey can convict if the purpose that the defendant had industing off this document policy and using it as a pretextto destroy documents was to interfere with the fact-finding ability of an anticipated proceeding. JUSTICE BREYER: Well, but it sounds like --actually, I'll grant you that it appears in the statute,but that's, in a sense, my problem. The statute talksabout "corruptly persuading another person to destroy apaper with the intent to impair that paper's availabilityfor use in an official proceeding." So, then we look atthe instruction, and the instruction speaks of "destroyingthe paper with the intent, at least in part, to impede." Fine. It sounds like it's just the same as the statute,but for one thing, the omission in the instruction of theword "corruptly." MR. DREEBEN: Justice Breyer, it's a definition th Street, NW Suite --FOR-DEPOWashington, DC of "corruptly" that -- JUSTICE BREYER: All right. So to define"corruptly" as "doing the same thing that the rest of thestatute does" seems a little strange. If I were a juror,I might think that there is missing here any dishonesty ofpurpose. MR. DREEBEN: The Court of Appeals addressed theargument, which Petitioner makes, that the definition of"corruptly" that was used in this case is redundant andsuperfluous in light of the additional intent that -- JUSTICE BREYER: It's not perfectly redundant. One can imagine driving a wedge between making somethingunavailable, which the jury would find relevant, or theinvestigator would find relevant, and impeding the fact-finding ability of the investigator. They're notlogically identical, but they do strike me as so similarthat it's hard to expect a juror to make much of adifference between those two phrases. MR. DREEBEN: Well, I think that they have avery significant difference, an important function inensuring that this statute is not applied beyond the scopeof protection of the integrity of proceedings, which iswhat Congress intended it to do. JUSTICE SCALIA: Mr. Dreeben, would you indulgeme to go back to a previous answer you gave? I'm sorry, I th Street, NW Suite --FOR-DEPOWashington, DC didn't quite get it. In responding to Justice Souter'sinquiry concerning the word "knowingly," you said the word"knowingly" appears later, so that it would be -- it wouldbe reduplicative. What later appearance are you talkingabout, in (b)? MR. DREEBEN: Justice Scalia, on page (a) --or, I'm sorry, on page (a) -- JUSTICE SCALIA: (a), right. MR. DREEBEN: -- of the Government's appendix -- JUSTICE SCALIA: Right. MR. DREEBEN: -- to its brief, at the bottom ofthe page, subsection (b) -- JUSTICE SCALIA: Right. MR. DREEBEN: -- appears, "Whoever knowinglyuses intimidation or physical force" -- JUSTICE SCALIA: Right. MR. DREEBEN: -- et cetera. JUSTICE SCALIA: Right. MR. DREEBEN: The last phrase in the sequence is"engages in misleading conduct towards another person." That phrase is, in turn, defined in the statute on page(a) and (a) of the same appendix, the Government'sappendix. It's Section (a)(). And it says the term"misleading conduct" means "knowingly making a falsestatement; intentionally omitting information from a th Street, NW Suite --FOR-DEPOWashington, DC statement; with intent to mislead, knowingly submitting orinviting reliance on a writing; or, with intent tomislead, knowingly submitting or inviting reliance on asample;" and, finally, "knowingly using a trick scheme ordevice." So, "knowingly" is to be read in as if it werepart of Section when it comes to defining the term"engaging in misleading conduct," so you would end up witha statute that Congress have, for some reason, draftedthat includes the word "knowingly" at the beginning, andthen "knowingly" later as the definition of one of theterms that the initial "knowingly" -- JUSTICE SCALIA: But I don't know how you canavoid that. MR. DREEBEN: You avoid it -- JUSTICE SCALIA: "Whoever knowingly engages inmisleading conduct," which is later defined as -- MR. DREEBEN: No. It's, "Whoever knowingly usesintimidation or physical force." That's what "knowingly"applies to. And then the words "threaten, corruptlypersuade, and engages in misleading conduct," haveinherent knowledge in them. In other words -- JUSTICE SCALIA: Oh, I see. The "knowingly"only applies to "uses intimidation or physical force." MR. DREEBEN: That's right, because "corruptly" th Street, NW Suite --FOR-DEPOWashington, DC is, and always has been, a scienter term, and itsappearance in Section is a direct lineal descendantfrom the fact that that word appears in Section . When Congress enacted this statute, it had every reason tobelieve, because it intended to do this, that thedefinition of "corruptly," that had been fairly widespreadin the use of the word in Section , would be appliedto . JUSTICE SOUTER: Why -- MR. DREEBEN: And, in that context -- JUSTICE SOUTER: -- why isn't the answer to yourargument that the requirement in (b) -- "knowingly"requirement in (b) doesn't travel all the way down throughthe series, but it travels at least as far as "corruptlypersuades"? MR. DREEBEN: Well, that's sort of reading thestatute just to achieve a result. JUSTICE SOUTER: No, but we know it -- MR. DREEBEN: I think it's contrary to -- JUSTICE SOUTER: -- applies to something at thebeginning of the series. It's got -- it's got some workto do. You've made an argument that it doesn't apply, orit would be logically absurd to apply it, to something atthe end of the series, and we're somewhere in the middle.And why isn't the answer to your argument simply to say, th Street, NW Suite --FOR-DEPOWashington, DC "Okay, it doesn't travel all the way to the end, but ittravels up to the end, and it travels as far as this"? MR. DREEBEN: Because a "threat," itself, whichis the third term in the series, and the one that precedesthe term that's at issue here, also involves an element ofscienter or knowledge. You can use intimidationinadvertently. You could be a very heavy, dangerous-looking guy, standing out in front of the grand jury room,and a witness might come along and see you and realize, tohimself, "Uh-oh, I'm in trouble if I testify." If youhaven't done that knowingly -- CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: So that big, heavy guywould violate the statute just by standing there? MR. DREEBEN: He wouldn't, Chief JusticeRehnquist, precisely because it requires that he knowinglyuse intimidation. So that -- JUSTICE SCALIA: I don't think you can -- youcan use intimidation unknowingly, any more than you canthreaten unknowingly. If they felt it necessary to put"knowingly" before "use intimidation," I think they wouldhave felt it necessary to put "knowingly" before"threaten." The two terms are just about identical. MR. DREEBEN: Well, I think that they'reactually quite different in the context of this statute,but even if the Court were to conclude that "knowingly" th Street, NW Suite --FOR-DEPOWashington, DC did travel down and produce a phrase, "knowinglycorruptly," the word "knowingly" generally in the criminallaw refers to "knowledge of the facts that make yourconduct unlawful." Arthur Andersen here is asking for avery -- JUSTICE BREYER: No, the --- in general terms,when you speak of "general interpretation," I suppose Ithink it possible to approach ambiguous criminal statuteswith the following idea. Congress did not intend to tryto make of the statute a highly general weapon for theJustice Department to pick and choose. That's anotification problem. It's also because we don't want onelaw, "It is a crime to do wrong, in the opinion of theAttorney General." You know, I mean, we want to havenarrow criminal statutes. Now, is it reasonable to start with that frameof mind? And if it is, doesn't that tend to cut againstyou in this case? MR. DREEBEN: I don't think that it does,Justice Breyer. There are, of course, contexts where theCourt concludes that a statute, after applying all thetools of statutory construction, is ambiguous, and thenrules of construction do apply to narrow it; but there isno provision that says that the Court should approach thequestion of construction with a view to narrow it. I th Street, NW Suite --FOR-DEPOWashington, DC think -- JUSTICE O'CONNOR: Well, how about the rule oflenity in the criminal statutes? If this thing is soconfusing, how's the business person supposed to know whatthey can do? How's the lawyer supposed to know? MR. DREEBEN: I don't think that it is thatconfusing, Justice O'Connor. This is a statute that wasenacted against the backdrop of Section in a well-understood meaning of the word "corruptly." The same wordappears in Section . When the D.C. Circuit concludedthat that provision was vague, as applied to a particularcase, Congress came back with a definition thatlegislatively overruled the D.C. Circuit decision and said"corruptly" means "acting with an improper purpose." The"improper purpose" in an obstruction-of-justice case hastraditionally been "the purpose to obstruct justice." That definition logically applies to Section, because Congress enacted the corruptly-persuadesprovision to remedy a deficiency in prior law, because ithad not included non-coercive, non-deceptive witness-tampering in the statute, originally. And some courtsconcluded that it was no longer punishable under Section, either. To fix that situation, Congress looked to the modelof Section case law, where there had been a variety th Street, NW Suite --FOR-DEPOWashington, DC of acts that are covered that under Petitioner's testwould not be, such as secreting a witness, or sequesteringa witness, in anticipation of a subpoena so that thewitness would be unavailable to testify, or destroyingdocuments before a subpoena had been issued, but in ananticipation that the subpoena was likely. Those kinds ofacts were considered to be unlawful. Similarly, giving advice, even as a lawyer, toan individual to assert the Fifth Amendment in bad faith,not to protect that individual's own interest, but toobstruct justice by protecting other members of a criminalorganization, or, indeed, the lawyer himself, lower courtshad recognized could be prosecuted; not uniformly hadrecognized, but they had uniformly recognized it at thetime of the enactment of this statute. And Congressspecifically said, "We want to be able to pick up thekinds of cases that some courts have said are no longerprosecutable under Section , and that had not beenincluded in the original version of ." So that thereis history here that explains how these terms should beapplied. And as far as Petitioner's contention that theword "corruptly" does nothing and leads to a series ofhorrible hypotheticals, actually a sensitive andappropriate use of the word "corruptly" solves those th Street, NW Suite --FOR-DEPOWashington, DC problems. Petitioners talk about how people should beable to urge each other not to cooperate with a voluntaryinvestigation, that it's part of citizenship to be able toengage in those conversations. But if an entity hassubpoena authority and it doesn't invoke it, and it simplyinvites people voluntarily to cooperate, it is not goingto be an intent to subvert, undermine, or impede thatproceeding to invite them to exercise that right. If theagency wants their testimony, it can get it throughcompulsion. Similarly, Petitioners argue that documentpolicies are, per se, made unlawful under the Government'sapproach. But as the Court of Appeals specificallyrecognized in this case, a sound application of the word"corruptly" would look to whether there is a threat ofsome kind of specific proceeding that might trigger anobligation not to destroy the documents before theproceeding gets started. And, as well, there are intents that are simplynot intents to subvert the administration of justice, thatmay result in rendering certain evidence unavailable. Andif a person engages in that conduct, it may well violateanother provision of criminal law, but it doesn't have toviolate . And a sound use of "corruptly" prevents allof those hypotheticals from materializing and leading to th Street, NW Suite --FOR-DEPOWashington, DC the conclusion that the statute is unduly broad. Now, Petitioner in this case, in addition toattacking the word "corruptly," also has advanced a numberof arguments that there was inadequate instruction on someconnection that had to be required between the Defendant'sintent in a possible future proceeding. But the reasonthat there was no adequate instruction on those issues islargely because Petitioner, itself, deliberately decidedto ask for two instructions that were contrary to thestatute, and never asked for what it's asked this Court toimpose today. It never asked that the Defendant must beshown to believe that some particular proceeding waslikely to occur in the near future. Instead, what it didis say that the Defendant had to have an intent to impairan object's availability for use in a particularproceeding. And what the Court of Appeals said is that ifthere was any problem in that, it's not reversible error;it's harmless, because everybody knew that the proceedingthat was anticipated was an SEC investigation of Enron. And the other instruction that Petitioners askedfor in the District Court is that the official proceedingmust be ongoing or scheduled to be commenced in thefuture. But that instruction is flatly contrary to thestatute. CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: Thank you, Mr. th Street, NW Suite --FOR-DEPOWashington, DC Dreeben. Ms. Mahoney, you have four minutes remaining. REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF MAUREEN E. MAHONEY ON BEHALF OF PETITIONER MS. MAHONEY: Thank you. I'd like to first address the fact that much ofthe Government's argument is focused on this nexus, theimminence of the proceeding, that sort of thing, butactually the jury was not required to find any nexuswhatsoever, and was told the wrong definition of an"official proceeding," to boot. It was told that theinformal inquiry by the SEC staff was an officialproceeding, and that an official proceeding was alreadygoing on at the time of the events at issue here; in fact,even before Nancy Temple even knew about that informalinquiry, which, in and of itself, is reversible error. And -- JUSTICE SCALIA: What do you think it shouldhave been? MS. MAHONEY: The "official proceeding," atworst, Your Honor, it was the formal investigation of theSEC, which is commenced by a vote of the Commission andhas compulsory process available. It is certainly not astaff person sitting in their office in Houston opening afile and doing some Internet searches. That's the th Street, NW Suite --FOR-DEPOWashington, DC Government's definition. That's in -- a matter within thejurisdiction of an agency, and that's not the languagethat appears in this statute. Also, in terms of whether Andersen raised thisargument, of course they did. They asked for aninstruction that the proceeding be ongoing or scheduled,because that was Fifth Circuit law at the time. Andersenwasn't supposed to guess that the Fifth Circuit was goingto change what it had held in case called Shively. Andthe Fifth Circuit understood that Andersen had preservedthe argument, and expressly says in its opinion that theissue is, What is the concreteness of the Defendant'sexpectation of a proceeding that should be required underthis statute? -- and found that "feared" was enough. That's not enough. "Possible" is not enough, especiallyif a broad definition, like the one the Government wantsto have -- there's got to be a serious nexus. Nexus problems can be avoided, though, if themore traditional definition of "corruptly" is used in thefirst place, which is not only required by lenity, but,frankly, is required even by the witness-tampering casesunder Section . As I read to you, the definitions of"corruptly" are completely consistent with Andersen'sdefinition. The Government says, "Oh, no. In fact, all it th Street, NW Suite --FOR-DEPOWashington, DC meant under was an intent to obstruct justice." Thatcan't possibly be what Congress intended for Section ,because this Court had held, for -- a hundred years ago,that you necessarily lack the evil intent to obstruct if aproceeding is not pending. And does apply evenbefore proceedings begin, so the definition had to betailored to the precise circumstances of Section . Itcouldn't import the precise thing. Plus, the definition under has never beenany intent to impede the fact-finding ability is aprohibited intent. That would require lawyers and clientsall over the country to go to jail. It's that you intendto subvert and undermine the integrity of the dueadministration of justice. And that term does not meansimply to impede the fact-finding; it means that youintend to disobey those duties that are imposed upon youin the course of a proceeding. And cases, including theHoward case cited in our brief and cited by theGovernment, make that crystal clear. It is not translatedto what this jury instruction was, which is that -- anyintent to impede fact-finding. Just take a look at the examples, if theGovernment were correct about this. If I were to ask mylawyer to assert, let's say, a reporter's privilege thatis debatable, under the Government's -- and I do it, th Street, NW Suite --FOR-DEPOWashington, DC because I know that that document is harmful, and I wantto keep it out of the proceeding -- under the Government'sdefinition, that is corrupt, because I am trying to getanother person to withhold a document in order to impedethe fact-finding ability of the decision-maker. It makes no sense to define "corruptly" thatway. If you, instead, define it with reference to duties,it makes perfect sense. That's not corrupt, because thereis no duty to provide a document when you have a good-faith claim of privilege. Thank you, Your Honor. CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: Thank you, Ms.Mahoney. The case is submitted. [Whereupon, at : a.m., the case in theabove-entitled matter was submitted.] th Street, NW Suite --FOR-DEPOWashington, DC 