 IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - xAT&T CORPORATION, : Petitioner : v. : No. -NOREEN HULTEEN, ET AL. :- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x Washington, D.C. Wednesday, December , The above-entitled matter came on for oralargument before the Supreme Court of the United Statesat : a.m.APPEARANCES:CARTER G. PHILLIPS, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf of the Petitioner.LISA S. BLATT, ESQ., Assistant Attorney General, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on behalf of the United States, as amicus curiae, supporting the Petitioner.KEVIN RUSSELL, ESQ., Bethesda, MD.; on behalf of the Respondents. C O N T E N T SORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGECARTER G. PHILLIPS, ESQ. On behalf of the Petitioner LISA S. BLATT, ESQ. On behalf of the United States, as amicus curiae, supporting the Petitioner KEVIN RUSSELL, ESQ. On behalf of the Respondent REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OFCARTER G. PHILLIPS, ESQ. On behalf of the Petitioner P R O C E E D I N G S (: a.m.) CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We will hearargument next in Case -, AT&T Corporation v.Hulteen. Mr. Phillips. ORAL ARGUMENT OF CARTER G. PHILLIPS ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER MR. PHILLIPS: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice,and may it please the Court: When Judge Wood on the Seventh Circuitaddressed precisely the same issue that's before thisCourt, I think she correctly observed that thedistinction between an ongoing violation that ariseswith each new use of a seniority system and the presenteffect of a past discrimination is a distinction that issubtle at best. But it is the line that this Court has askedthe lower courts to draw, and I think the majority ofthose courts have actually drawn that lineappropriately, although you could actually probablyargue that it's more a scatter plot than it is a line.And I think it's a scatter plot that essentially looksto three primary factors in evaluating whether or notthis is a case that is more like Evans and Lorance and Ledbetter, or a case that is more like Bazemore. And those three factors are the stale natureof the claims, whether or not there is a seniority atstake, and whether or not the employees have fair andadequate notice at the time of the action of theemployer. Let's look at the staleness of the claim.In this particular case, we are talking about maternityleaves that were taken by -- taken by the Respondentsbetween and . The information that's availableto AT&T today is simply whether or not these particularindividuals were paid for periods of time. There isnothing more than that. We have no way of knowing whether or notthese were maternity leaves or not maternity leaves,whether these were leaves to go to school, leaves totake care of -- of parents, or leaves for any otherparticular purpose. JUSTICE GINSBURG: But at the time -- at thetime of the original reduction of credits, was there anyright claimed that any of these women had? I mean,nothing had happened to them except there was abookkeeping entry. They wouldn't be hurt until theysought retirement or sought some other benefit thatincreased seniority would give them. But could they have come into court just from, on the books of AT&T,they were docked X number of days? Nothing has happenedas a consequence of that. MR. PHILLIPS: Justice Ginsburg, they notonly could have, but they did. If you look at theEighth Circuit's decision -- and, indeed, Respondents inthis case did -- in the Communications Worker case outof the Eighth Circuit, which is F.d , theyspecifically alleged that one of the Bell operatingcompanies, one of the subsidiaries, had, in fact,refused to grant these -- these exact service credits,sued on that basis pre-PDA, and alleged that they wereentitled to relief. The Eighth Circuit in that case looked atthis Court's decision in Gilbert and looked at thisCourt's decision in Satty, and said specifically thiscase is more like Gilbert than it's like Satty, butnever remotely questioned that that was an actionableclaim at that point in time. And, candidly, it seems tome clear that that's an actionable claim because there-- there is very little that is quite as critical inthis process -- in the employment relationship asseniority. And -- and we are not talking about simplybenefits seniority here. We are talking aboutcompetitive seniority. So whether you have a -- a better claim to acushier job or -- or to better working conditions, allof those are determined on the basis of -- of seniority,which is being decided on an individualized basis. JUSTICE GINSBURG: But it hadn't beenapplied in any of those situations yet. At -- at the --at the point when the person returns from leave and isdocked a certain number of days, it hasn't been appliedto any of the situations you mentioned. I grant you thecase would be totally ripe if there was a better job tobid for, if there was an early retirement opportunity.But here there was nothing -- nothing to be done. MR. PHILLIPS: Well, Justice Ginsburg, I --I question the premise that there was nothing to bedone. I think the average person told that they haveless seniority today than they had yesterday, and ifthey were told that on the basis of -- of gender-baseddiscrimination or race-based discrimination, would say:I am entitled to go to court today. Not only do I think that that's the way mostpeople would react to it, but the reality is if you lookat the way the litigation arose in the Eighth Circuitcase that I alluded to earlier, these very -- the sameunion here made exactly that claim prior to the passageof the PDA. So the notion that the employees, one, didn't have notice -- they clearly did have notice --and, two, didn't have an incentive to act, they clearlydid have an incentive to act. And I think this is not much different fromwhat the Court said in Ricks, which is that obviouslyyou have more of an incentive when you feel the truepain of a -- of a discriminatory act, assuming the actwas in -- was, in fact, discriminatory, but theobligation to respond more -- to respond sooner remainson the plaintiff. And, again, to go back to the point I wastrying to make initially, these are all claims thatarose -- these are all actions taken between and. And one of the -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: But you -- you have to, Ithink, recognize that there's a big difference betweenEvans, who was told, goodbye, you got married, you haveto resign -- a definite act that had immediateconsequences -- and this, where there -- there is apotential for future consequences but no immediateconsequence of the kind that existed in your model case,Evans. MR. PHILLIPS: I mean, Justice Ginsburg,there's -- there's no question that the impact in Evansis -- is stronger than the impact here. I will readily concede that. But what I won't concede is that theimportance of seniority is so far down the pecking orderor so de minimis in its impact that it would bereasonable to assume that the average employee, toldthat I'm am taking away your seniority on the basis --on the basis of your race, would then sit back and say:I'm not going to do anything; I'm going to wait untilthe impact of that is felt. To the contrary, you would expect, given the-- the centrality of seniority as a term of employment,that any employee under those circumstances wouldrespond, you know, almost immediately under thosecircumstances. The -- the second factor in this case that,it seems to me, this Court has relied upon significantlyin the prior decisions that have come out on the side ofnot allowing this kind of litigation to go forward is weare talking about a seniority system here. And the --as I said a minute ago, it's not just the rights of theindividual and what benefits she might be entitled to.The seniority system obviously affects the rights of allmembers of the -- of the seniority plan and all of thepension plan and the entire system that the seniorityoperates on. And so there are third-party intereststhat are involved here. And, again, both Congress and this Court'sdecisions have consistently recognized that when thatsituation arises, the resolution of the question oughtto be to say, no, these are present effects of pastdiscriminatory acts; we should be loath to try tointerfere with those -- with that seniority scheme underthese circumstances. And then the third factor that it seems tome the Court has been concerned about -- and it's one wehave been discussing -- which is the -- the -- you know,the adequacy of the notice, where the employee is put onnotice at the time that actions were being taken. Now, we can quarrel about how serious the --the actions were, how detrimental they might have been.But it seems to me there is no question that the -- thatthe injury here is real and that the average employeebeing told that you are being deprived of seniority on-- on a race-based or sex-based or any other conditionthat is protected would act immediately. Now, it seems to me that the only argumentthat the -- that the Respondents offer on the other side-- and it's almost a mantra-like exposition by them andit was certainly the basis for the Ninth Circuit, and Ithink it's where the mistake arises -- is this claimthat this is -- is a facially discriminatory policy. And their argument is if it's facially discriminatory,then you can apply it now, and all of the reasons whythis Court has not applied these -- these kinds ofclaims in the past in Evans and Lorance and Ledbetter is-- is -- are off the hook in this circumstance. But the truth is this is not a faciallydiscriminatory policy. In the first place, this exactsame policy was looked at in "SAH-tee" or "SAT-ee." Idon't know exactly how to pronounce it. And the Courtsaid these kinds of arrangements where you don't giveservice credit for people who take pregnancy leave isnot facially discriminatory. So -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: But that was when Gilbertwas prevailing. Certainly, we would not regard it thatway today. MR. PHILLIPS: Well, I don't know whether itwould be regarded as facially discriminatory today. Ithink it would be regarded as illegal today. Whether itwould be facially discriminatory I think is a -- is atrickier question, because again it seems to me that --that the other side relies heavily on the statement inLorance about facially discriminatory plans. But what the Court described as a faciallydiscriminatory plan in that day was it was -- in thatcase, was a situation where every day a male worker is credited with a full day of work for a day's -- a day'seffort, and a woman is credited with half a day's workfor a day's effort. And -- and the Court said, quiterightly, that's a facially discriminatory plan. Well, we don't have anything like that inthis case. This plan was changed in the wake of thepassage of the PDA to bring it completely in compliance.So the plan, as it operates today, is -- is not only notfacially discriminatory; it is in no way discriminatory-- JUSTICE BREYER: Btu you -- what about --I'm trying to work with this distinction where I agreewith you that it's hard to see exactly what it is. Butif I look at Bazemore, I think there we have a largenumber of employees. And if you look at a complicatedthing, a salary structure, earlier, you see that thatsalary structure systemically paid black people lessthan white people. And at the time, for whateverreasons, there wasn't a statute -- we assume that thatwas lawful at the time. MR. PHILLIPS: Right. JUSTICE BREYER: Then later it turns outthat they are keeping that salary structure, althoughnot for racially motivated reasons. They are keeping itsimply because that's what it was. And the Court says, you've taken that complex structure, and you areadministering it now, and the administration of it nowis what is unlawful. Then, look at your case. We had acomplicated structure involving seniority, really. Andpart of that old seniority system was this rule whichwas legal at the time. It is no longer legal. Now, we move that structure over until now,and we see we are administering the same complexstructure today in the same kind of way that was atissue at Bazemore. It's a complicated set of rules thatyou have to apply today in order to see who is entitledto what, just as they did that in Bazemore. So I beganto think, doesn't that, on the key matter, look verymuch like Bazemore? What is your response? MR. PHILLIPS: Justice Breyer, I -- I -- inlooking at this case, I have long thought of it as kindof an M.C. Escher picture, where you look at it from onedirection and it looks one way, and then you turn it andyou look at it the other way, and it looks completelydifferent to you. But I think the right answer to -- to youranalysis is that the way to look at Bazemore is thatevery day after the statute was enacted, every employeewho showed up to work who was black was paid less than every employee who showed up to work who was white. Andthat, it seems to me, as the Court said in Bazemore,unanimously and without a whole lot of fanfare, is justsomething simply illegal under Title VII under thosecircumstances. JUSTICE SOUTER: Yes, but why can't you makeexactly the same kind of analysis here? People here arenot showing up for work. They are staying home andgetting retirement benefits. And every day a person whowas out for days because of a physical illness otherthan pregnancy is getting a retirement benefit with anextra dollar. And everybody who was out -- who was outfor days for maternity is only getting an extra cents. And -- and why isn't the payment of theretirement benefit exactly on par with the payment ofthe salary in Bazemore? MR. PHILLIPS: I -- I mean, I think theanswer to that, Justice Souter, is that's not -- that'scertainly not an implausible way of trying to look atthis problem, but if you look at the language of thisCourt two terms ago in Ledbetter, and I'll quote it foryou: "The fact that pre-charging period discriminationadversely affects the calculation of a neutral factorlike seniority" -- which is what we are talking abouthere -- "that is used in determining future pay" -- which is the benefits from this program -- "does notmean that each new paycheck constitutes a new violationand restarts the EEOC charging period." JUSTICE SOUTER: Well, do you -- do you seeLedbetter in effect as -- as overruling Bazemore? MR. PHILLIPS: No, I think Ledbetter dealswith Bazemore in the context of a -- of a true senioritysystem and an arrangement in which what you are lookingat -- because our case is a fortiori from -- from Evansand -- and Ledbetter because, remember, we are talkingabout a situation where what we did at the time, in ourjudgment, was perfectly legal. JUSTICE SOUTER: And -- and at the time, inBazemore, that the private employers discriminated forracial purposes, that was not unconstitutional orillegal, either. MR. PHILLIPS: Right, I understand that, but-- JUSTICE GINSBURG: At that time, even -- MR. PHILLIPS: And then -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: -- even more so. You --you've said several times that it was perfectly legal,but isn't it true that the law in all of the circuitswas the other way, and it wasn't until this Courtdecided the Gilbert case that the law changed? But if you were -- if you were an employer and you wereadvising a client in, say, , look to see where thecircuits were, the circuits said, yes, discrimination onthe basis of pregnancy is surely discrimination on thebasis of sex. It wasn't until this Court decided firstthe Aiello case and then Gilbert that -- that that lawchanged. But -- MR. PHILLIPS: I mean, I understand that,Justice Ginsburg, and obviously we don't quarrel withthat. The problem obviously is the Court did decideGilbert; the Court didn't say the law changed. It wasthe way the Court interpreted the statute at the time,and under the interpretation of Gilbert and Satty, whatwe did was perfectly legal, and when the statutechanged, what we did was to bring ourselves intoassiduous compliance with that position, Justice Souter,which is what I think distinguishes -- JUSTICE SOUTER: No, but I mean, that --with respect, I think that sort of begs the questionbecause if Bazemore is the right template for analyzingthis case, then you're not in compliance when you --when your payment of the pension benefit reflects thepregnancy differential. MR. PHILLIPS: Justice Souter, there's noquestion that you can read Bazemore that way. I just think that the way this Court has read Bazemore andLorance and Ledbetter suggests that, in the context ofthe case we have here, the right answer is this is morelike present effects of past allegedly discriminatoryacts and, therefore, not actionable at this time. JUSTICE STEVENS: Let me just be sure Iunderstand one thing: Are you contending that the planis not unlawful or that the claim is untimely? MR. PHILLIPS: We are -- well, both,actually. We say it's not -- we say it's untimely, butwe also say that if -- JUSTICE STEVENS: At the time it wasadopted, it was lawful. MR. PHILLIPS: Right, exactly. And thatotherwise it would have to be retroactive application ofthe PDA. I would like to reserve the balance of mytime. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel. Ms. Blatt. ORAL ARGUMENT OF LISA S. BLATT ON BEHALF OF THE UNITED STATES, AS AMICUS CURIAE, SUPPORTING THE PETITIONER MS. BLATT: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice, and may it please the Court: The Ninth Circuit's decision in this caseimpermissibly imposes retroactive liability onPetitioner, and Respondents' claims are in any eventtime-barred. JUSTICE GINSBURG: Miss Blatt, that was notthe position of the only representative of the UnitedStates in the Ninth Circuit, as far as I know, the EEOC,the brief in the Ninth Circuit. We don't hear from theEEOC in this Court, but I think it was not just thatbrief but in the EEOC manual, they are taking a positionthat is degrees opposite yours. Am I right in -- MS. BLATT: You are absolutely correct. Youare absolutely correct. And Ledbetter -- this Court'sdecision in Ledbetter, which was issued after both thecompliance manual and after the EEOC filed their brief,explained that the EEOC is entitled to no specialdeference on the interpretation of this Court's cases.And the EEOC's interpretation is based on a conclusionwhether this case is governed by Evans or Bazemore, andthe EEOC hasn't purported to even discuss theretroactivity -- or the retroactive imposition ofliability because the pregnancy leaves in this case weretaken before the PDA and, as the EEOC acknowledged inthat compliance manual, that denial of service credit at the time was lawful under this Court's decision. JUSTICE SOUTER: Would you -- would you --excuse me -- would you agree that if -- well, let me beless rhetorical about it. What if Congress passed astatute providing that, starting one year from theeffective date of the statute, no pension plan willdifferentiate in computing pension benefits on leavestaken between -- as between leaves taken for -- forconventional sickness and leaves taken for pregnancy.Would that statute be unconstitutional? MS. BLATT: Unconstitutional? JUSTICE SOUTER: Yes. MS. BLATT: I think -- I mean, the way Iunderstand your case is that Congress can speak in clearlanguage to impose retroactive -- JUSTICE SOUTER: To make it retroactive.Yes. MS. BLATT: Retrospective liability. It'sjust there's nothing in the PDA that indicates thatretroactive liability was imposed. And -- JUSTICE SOUTER: So your -- your argumentsimply is a -- a purely statutory construction argument:That isn't what Congress had in mind. MS. BLATT: Right, and your hypotheticalstatute would seem inconsistent with -- JUSTICE SOUTER: If Congress would have hadin mind, then there would be a question whether Congresscould do it, and you agree that it could. So thequestion is simply: Did it or didn't it in this case? MS. BLATT: That's right, and I think the --the seniority system provision, (h), would just becompletely counter to that hypothetical provisionbecause Congress has taken special care to make sureseniority systems can continue to exist, even thoughthey incorporate pre-Act discrimination. JUSTICE KENNEDY: Was this statute effective days after its -- after signature? MS. BLATT: With respect to fringe benefitprograms, I think it was effective on the date itpassed. And there's no question -- everyone concedes --that AT&T immediately came into compliance on theeffective date of the Act. And the -- our key point on retroactivity isthe way to look at this is what the statute prohibitedand that is discrimination on the basis of pregnancy.And the pregnancy discrimination occurred in this casebased on the discriminatory leave policies, and those --those were all taken in the 's and 's before the PDAwas passed. And what the Ninth Circuit's decision doesis it orders Petitioner to restore service credit taken for the pregnancy leave before the passage of the -- ofthe PDA. And I -- JUSTICE SOUTER: Do you -- do you thinkLedbetter modified or overruled Bazemore? MS. BLATT: No. It just put it in context,and I don't think that Bazemore deals with theretroactivity point, and let me explain why: The -- theemployer in Bazemore who continued to pay AfricanAmericans less than whites was ordered prospectively tostart paying equal wages for equal work, butspecifically not ordered to make up for past wagedifferentials. And I think it's for three reasons.What this does is much -- much more prejudicial andupsets expectations in three ways, and this is some ofthe things that Mr. Phillips talked about. And at thetime the pregnancy leaves were taken, the Petitioner wasentitled and probably required to make planning andfunding decisions for its pension liabilities. Second, the Petitioner should not, to years after the fact, have to defend claims aboutwhether these women were disabled and actually unable towork due to pregnancy, when medical records andpersonnel records are probably missing and memories longsince faded. And, third, the retroactive scrambling of a seniority system upsets the vested rights of otheremployees. And I just don't think you have any of thatin Bazemore. The employer said -- JUSTICE SOUTER: Well, why does it upset -- MS. BLATT: -- you me to pay out moneyprospectively. JUSTICE SOUTER: So far as pension benefitsare concerned, it doesn't upset any employee'sexpectations. The ones who don't have a pregnancybackground are going to get the same pension that they-- they bargained for. MS. BLATT: Well, I think of a pension planas a zero-sum game. There's a more limited amount. Butmore specifically, there -- JUSTICE SOUTER: Well, but that -- I mean,that's -- that's an issue that you touched on, on yoursecond point. I don't know if it is a zero-sum game.And if -- if I were faced with -- with a problem, and Imay be, in which I really have two choices -- I've gottwo analogies in our cases, I can take either one, andthere were evidence in here that the -- that this wasgoing to be so traumatic to the pension system that itwould be manifestly unfair and perhaps endanger benefitsfor others to force these benefits to be paid, that would be a good reason to go one way. But I don't thinkwe have that in the case. And -- MS. BLATT: Well, I -- JUSTICE SOUTER: And if we don't have it inthe case, then this isn't a zero-sum game. MS. BLATT: Well, we don't know what we havein the case, because it was -- it was -- liability wasimposed on summary judgment. The class allegations are,. But my point on vested seniority rights isthat the class includes current employees. TheRespondent Porter is a current employee. The order inthis case is to restore seniority credit, I assume forcurrent employees, which will give them greaterseniority rights vis-a-vis other employees who haveplanned their own issues about job bidding andretirement and seniority based on to years ofexpectations. So I -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: But this is not asituation like Evans, somebody who was out of theworkforce for years and then is going to come back andbump some people who -- who filled in while she was notworking, and get that credit. This is quite different.This is just a question of weeks. MS. BLATT: No, I think some -- some of these people had very significant disabilities, over , months. But in terms of the fairness here, I mean,the -- the female flight attendant was discharged on afacially discriminatory policy of forcing married femaleflight attendants to resign. Here, the two SupremeCourt cases have said that the decision -- asinexplicable as it was, the decision not to treatpregnancy as a disability was not on its face adiscriminatory policy. Now, the PDA immediately overruled that, butapplied it prospectively, and now we are here to years later basically litigating the complaint that wasbrought in the Eighth Circuit as well as the complaintthat was brought in the Second Circuit by the Respondenthere. They brought this case twice in the Second -- andthese are all cited on the Petitioner's brief and thereply brief on page . In the Second Circuit case, it was granted,vacated, and remanded in light of Gilbert. And then inthe Eighth Circuit case, they actually lost on themerits under Satty. Now, the only thing that has changed is thepassage of years and the PDA, which doesn't applyretroactively. So I just think that -- JUSTICE STEVENS: Do I correctly understand that -- that you would agree that if this plan wereadopted today it would be unlawful, but because it was-- that at the time it was adopted, and the statute usesthe word "adopted," it was lawful? MS. BLATT: Let me be very clear on this.The seniority system in this case is facially neutral;it just accords seniority to men and women on an equalbasis depending on whether they took disability leave orpersonal leave. The leave policy that forced women totake pregnancy leave as personal leave would be illegalif it were adopted today, because the PDA says you can'ttreat -- women affected by pregnancy have to be treatedfor the same purposes. So the seniority system is always just thesame. It says, based on total years of service, you getpension benefits, men and women the same. In theaccrual policy, men and women were treated identically.Just like in Evans, men and women were denied seniorityor service credit if they were terminated for -- forcharge, and there was a separate unlawful policy thatbasically defined -- cause -- excuse me -- if you wereterminated for cause -- and a separate policy thatdefined "cause" to say, well, if you were a femaleflight attendant and you married, then you were forcedto resign. So obviously that policy was always unlawful. It would be unlawful today. And similarly,if AT&T hadn't had changed its leave policy, someonecould sue immediately. I mean, these women -- theimmediate -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Before you -- do Iunderstand your answer to Justice Stevens's question tobe yes, it would be legal to adopt this seniority policytoday? MS. BLATT: Yes -- the seniority system istheir seniority system, and it's completely neutral andcompletely lawful. AT&T's pre-PDA leave policy. Thatif you were a woman and you take pregnancy -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I understand, butwe're -- MS. BLATT: -- that's unlawful today. Thatwould be facial discrimination on the basis ofpregnancy, and it would be unlawful. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But even adoptingthe policy today -- which I thought wasJustice Stevens's question, and maybe it's not -- thatwould be acceptable? In other words, it's not simplythe fact that this -- the leave policy -- the senioritypolicy was adopted during the time prior to Gilbert? MS. BLATT: I -- AT&T could not adopt theirleave policy today, and -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: They couldn't adoptthe leave policy. Could they adopt today a leave -- aseniority policy today based on -- today, based on thepre-Gilbert situation? MS. BLATT: Oh. Then I think you would havea -- well, you would have an unlawful policy thatsomeone could sue on immediately, and it would be facialdiscrimination, and we wouldn't be up here making aretroactivity argument because no court would beordering them to undo decisions that were made beforethe passage of the Act. They today would be makingdecisions and there were nothing -- there would be noretroactive imposition of liability. Thank you. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, Ms.Blatt. Mr. Russell. ORAL ARGUMENT OF KEVIN RUSSELL ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTS MR. RUSSELL: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court: The distinction between Evans and this caseturns on the difference between discrimination outsideof the seniority system which affects an employee'sability to provide service to the employer, and discrimination within the seniority system itself thatgives unequal credit for equal service. Congress drew that line, adopting one thatthis Court had referred to in Lorance, when it passedsection (e)() of Title VII, which provided that afacially discriminatory seniority system can bechallenged, not only when -- JUSTICE STEVENS: May I ask a question? Ifthere is a facially discriminatory system, are yousaying this is a disparate impact case or a disparatetreatment case? MR. RUSSELL: This is a disparate treatmentcase. JUSTICE STEVENS: When did the -- when didthe intentional discrimination take place? MR. RUSSELL: It took place when AT&Tapplied an accrual rule to my clients' disability leave,and said -- JUSTICE STEVENS: You do not -- you do notcontend that the plan was unlawful at the time it wasadopted? MR. RUSSELL: We think that it was, but itdoesn't matter. Ultimately under (e)(), whatmatters is that the plan discriminated on its face. Andthe insight beyond that -- and that doesn't turn on whether it is unlawful or not. A plan thatdiscriminates against short people discriminates on itsface, intentionally discriminates on the basis of heightevery time it's applied; and when it does, whether it'slawful or not, is applied in accordance with the lawthat existed at the time of the application. JUSTICE STEVENS: Well, let me ask you thisquestion: At the time the plan was adopted,discrimination on the basis of pregnancy was notdiscrimination on the basis of sex, according to themajority in Gilbert. MR. RUSSELL: That's correct. JUSTICE STEVENS: Which I happen to disagreewith. So as a matter of law, it seems to me at thetime the plan was adopted it was a lawful plan. MR. RUSSELL: Well, we think it was unlawfulfor two reasons, and one is that it was unlawful underSatty. Now, I acknowledge -- JUSTICE STEVENS: Under what? MR. RUSSELL: Under Satty, under the Court'sdecision in Satty that said discrimination with respectto seniority had an unlawful discriminatory impact onthe basis of sex. JUSTICE GINSBURG: That was -- that was coming back to work and having all of your senioritystripped. Is that -- MR. RUSSELL: That is correct, but we don'tthink that there's a distinction because what the Courtsaid was that the injury is cognizable because itaffects employment opportunities. JUSTICE SCALIA: Yes, but I thought thequestion was whether it was unlawful at the time, beforethe later statute. MR. RUSSELL: Yes, and we think -- JUSTICE SCALIA: And -- and you say that,even though discriminating against pregnancy leave wasitself lawful, a retirement plan that did not give youcredit for the time of that pregnancy leave wasunlawful? MR. RUSSELL: No. Let me be clear. Wethink that at the time our clients took their leave, itwas unlawful under Title VII and under Satty todiscriminate on the basis of pregnancy with respect toseniority, whether it's the right to retain accruedseniority or the right to accumulate it in the firstplace. JUSTICE SCALIA: And you say Gilbert hadnothing to do with it? MR. RUSSELL: Gilbert said that it wasn't intentional discrimination on the basis of sex. Sattysaid it had an unlawful disparate impact on the basis ofsex. But ultimately none of this matters, because undersection (e)(), the question is whether the system asa whole, which includes the accruable, discriminates onits face, whether it's intentionally discriminatory; andthe insight behind that rule was, as I said before withthe example of a height discrimination, a rule thatdiscriminates on the basis of height intentionallydiscriminates on the basis of height every time it'sapplied. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Could you -- could Ipause? I'd just trying to understand your earlieranswer. It just took me a little while before you gotoff on the other point. You're saying it was lawful at the time todeliberately discriminate on the basis of pregnancy --Gilbert -- but that that was somehow unlawful if in factyour deliberate discrimination had a disparate impact? MR. RUSSELL: Had a disparate impact on thebasis of sex, yes. That's what Satty held -- that'swhat Satty held clearly with respect to accruedseniority. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, maybe I'mmissing it. Isn't it a bit unusual to say it's perfectly all right to discriminate intentionally, butif it has a disparate impact, that's not all right? MR. RUSSELL: That's every disparate impactcase. It's not that it's all right. It's just thatit's not -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: No, I -- I don'tthink it's every disparate impact case. In a disparateimpact case, it's because you can't show, typically,deliberate discrimination, so you look at what theimpact was. But I guess I've never heard of a casewhere it's okay to do something intentionally, but it'sillegal -- to discriminate intentionally, but it'sillegal if that has a disparate impact. MR. RUSSELL: Let me just be clear about theterms. Gilbert said it was not unlawful intentional sexdiscrimination, but Satty said that it constitutes --that pregnancy discrimination with respect to senioritycredits constitutes -- has an unlawful disparate impacton the basis of sex. In that sense -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, but Gilbertsaid it wasn't discrimination on the basis of sex,because it said that discrimination on the basis ofpregnancy was not discrimination on the basis of sex;and yet you are saying if there is a disparate impact onthe basis of pregnancy, then it is discrimination on the base of sex. MR. RUSSELL: Let me try one more time. Andmaybe -- it's just to say that sometimes, intentionaldiscrimination on the basis of pregnancy can have adisparate impact on the basis of sex. That's what Sattysaid -- Satty said. But -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Is your -- is thereany other -- can you cite a case to me where we haveheld there is discriminatory treatment, but that'slawful, but the discriminatory impact of that isunlawful? MR. RUSSELL: Well, I think a heightrequirement would be intentional discrimination on thebasis of height that could have an unlawful disparateimpact on the basis of sex. I think it's a parallelconstruction. But, ultimately, I -- I don't want to wastetoo much time on this, because I don't think it mattersbecause the insight behind section (e)() is thatevery act that implements a facially discriminatorysystem constitutes a fresh act of that intentionaldiscrimination. And so there's no question -- JUSTICE STEVENS: But does the statute usethe term -- does the statute use the term "faciallydiscriminatory system"? MR. RUSSELL: No. It uses the term"intentionally discriminatory system." JUSTICE STEVENS: Right. MR. RUSSELL: And there's no dispute that afacially discriminatory system discriminatesintentionally. And so -- JUSTICE STEVENS: It is also clear that --is it also clear that a statute -- that -- that a planthat does not intentionally discriminate may,nevertheless, discriminate facially? I think the twothings -- MR. RUSSELL: Well, again, it's -- it's thepredicates that change. It's a -- it can be a plan thatdoesn't intentionally discriminate on the basis of sexat the time, in the past. But when it -- but it's clearthat it intentionally discriminates on the basis ofpregnancy. And so then the question -- so then under(e)(), under this Court's insight in Lorance, thecurrent application of that system constitutes a presentact -- JUSTICE STEVENS: Yes, but that was thecurrent application of a system that was plainlydiscriminatory, intentionally discriminatory. Lorancewas. They intentionally discriminated against women. MR. RUSSELL: Yes. The -- the intent behindthe system is imbued in every application of the system.So a system that is intentionally discriminatory on thebasis of pregnancy discriminates intentionally on thebasis of pregnancy every time it's applied. And thequestion -- JUSTICE SCALIA: Go on, finish. I -- MR. RUSSELL: And, under Section (e)(),the question is simply whether that discrimination isunlawful at the time of application -- JUSTICE SCALIA: I don't understand why yousay that the retirement plan is facially discriminatorynow. You contend that right now it's faciallydiscriminatory. MR. RUSSELL: Yes, it's -- JUSTICE SCALIA: It seems to me what theretirement plan says is that there is deducted from yourseniority, for purposes of calculating what you getunder the plan, all periods in which you -- you werelawfully not deemed to be -- to be working for thecompany. Now, that doesn't seem to be faciallydiscriminatory at all. MR. RUSSELL: I think it's -- the system isfacially discriminatory -- there are several parts. Oneis: What set of rules constitutes a relevant seniority system? And we think that the rule that says pregnancyleave doesn't get full credit is as an accrual rule,it's part of the seniority system. And that rulediscriminated on its face on the basis of pregnancy. JUSTICE SCALIA: No, but it didn't. Not --not during the period for which it is used in -- in theretirement system. MR. RUSSELL: There's no -- JUSTICE SCALIA: After the new legislationwas passed, yes, pregnancy leave counts for seniority.But -- but during the period before that occurred, itwas not counted towards seniority, and it -- and it waslawfully not counted towards seniority. So what you have is a retirement plan thatsays all lawful periods of work -- all periods of workare -- that lawfully must be credited will be creditedto the -- to the employees. I don't see how that isfacially discriminatory. MR. RUSSELL: It facially discriminates onthe basis of pregnancy and then does so whether thepregnancy discrimination was unlawful at the time ornot. And under (e)(), that -- that faciallydiscriminatory intent to discriminate on the basis ofpregnancy is carried forward today in every application.And the whole point of the rule was simply to say that we don't want to force employees to have to run intocourt every time there's some discrimination -- JUSTICE SCALIA: Is -- is there a differencebetween "facially discriminatory" and "discriminatoryimpact"? I mean I can see how you could say it has adiscriminatory impact, but to say that on its face, whenall it says is that you are credited with all of theperiods in which you were lawfully working for thecompany and you are not credited for periods in whichthe company lawfully deemed you not to be working forthe company, I don't see how that is faciallydiscriminatory in -- in any sense. MR. RUSSELL: Well, that scenario, I think,is indistinguishable from what happened in Bazemore.Recall, in Bazemore, that the basic rule is you get paidnow today what we paid you before Title VII, plus anondiscriminatory raise. And this Court said that thatis simply perpetuation of the pre-Act intentional racediscrimination, which wasn't unlawful at the time. Butif you apply that system today, that constitutes apresent act of racial discrimination subject to thepresent requirements of Title VII. JUSTICE SCALIA: Did it say it was faciallydiscriminatory? I'm -- I'm just talking about your --your assertion that it's facially discriminatory. Did Basemore more say it was facially discriminatory? MR. RUSSELL: No, Bazemore did not use thatterm. But this Court, in Ledbetter, assumed that therationale of Bazemore was the rationale this Court gavein Lorance, which was that it involved a --intentionally a systematic system of discriminationthat, even though it was lawful when it was instituted-- was first instituted, its carrying over into thepresent era subjects it to the requirements of Title VIInow. And I don't think it's -- it's fairlydistinguishable because what the employer in Bazemoredid is -- is simply what AT&T has done here. At thetime Title VII took effect, the employer in Bazemorestopped giving discriminatory base salaries and stoppedgiving discriminatory pay raises, but it just added tothat base salary in a nondiscriminatory manner, in thesame way that AT&T stopped discriminating in the amountsthat it added to accrued seniority. JUSTICE STEVENS: No, but in Bazemore eachpaycheck was discriminatory. MR. RUSSELL: It was discriminatory in thesense that it paid unequal wages for equal work. Andhere our pension checks give unequal compensation forequal amounts of service to the company. JUSTICE STEVENS: But the reason for that isbecause they adopted a plan a long time ago that waslawful. MR. RUSSELL: Well, the same thing was truein Bazemore. They had adopted -- JUSTICE STEVENS: They're not applying aplan in Bazemore. They're paying a current salary.They're paying black people less than whites justbecause they are black. MR. RUSSELL: They were applying a paystructure that was adopted -- JUSTICE STEVENS: Yes, they were stillpaying -- each paycheck was a discriminatory paycheck.It didn't depend on history; whereas, a pension plan --they always look at the formation of the plan. At leastunder subsection (h), I think you do. MR. RUSSELL: The paychecks were in -- inBazemore were intentionally discriminatory only insofaras you look back to the pre-Title VII -- JUSTICE STEVENS: And that's what I disagreewith. It seems to me if you look at the present inBazemore, you find they are getting different salariesbecause of the difference in -- one is of one race, andthe other is of another race. MR. RUSSELL: And the same is true here. Our clients are giving -- JUSTICE SOUTER: The -- the point that isnot true that -- that Justice Stevens is bringing out isthat, in this case, you had a plan which was establishedat a time when the plan was -- was lawful. And, ineffect, you are saying there is -- there is no value tobe given to any reliance interest on the part of thecompany that established the plan when it fundedaccording -- prior to the passage of the Act, when --when it -- it calculated it's funding on the basis ofwhat was, in fact, lawful conduct. And you are sayingthat is irrelevant. You didn't have that factor inBazemore. MR. RUSSELL: It's not irrelevant. It'ssimply something that this Court has traditionally takeninto account at the remedial stage. The Court has -- JUSTICE SOUTER: Well, how would it do that? MR. RUSSELL: Well, the -- in Florida v.Long -- there's a long line of cases where this Court -- JUSTICE SOUTER: Well, you're -- you're notasking the Court to do that, are you? You -- you'resaying, look, pay -- pay pension benefits to thesepeople exactly as they would have been calculated if, infact, their pregnancy had been treated as whatever theregular sick leave was, so that they would get full credit for the time they were out. You're -- you're notasking for any remedial order that gives them anythingless than percent of what they want. MR. RUSSELL: We're not asking for thatbecause we don't think that there are substantialreliance interests that are -- with respect to the --the liquidity of the -- the pension plan that areaffected here. My point is simply that -- JUSTICE SOUTER: How -- how do we -- youthink that? How do we know that? MR. RUSSELL: Well -- JUSTICE SOUTER: How do we know -- maybe --maybe I can put the same question in a different way.Let's assume -- and this isn't a bizarre assumption here-- that we've got two lines of cases, and we could relyon either of those lines of cases, go one way if -- ifwe rely on line a, and go another way if we rely on lineb. What are the good reasons, apart from simplystatements of the cases themselves, to go with the oneline or the other line? One reason would be relianceinterests in setting up a pension plan to distinguishthis from Bazemore. How are we in a position to makethat judgment? MR. RUSSELL: I don't think you are, which is why I do think that it's perfectly appropriate forthis Court to do what it did in cases like Manhart,which is to say there's one definition of"discrimination" under Title VII, and it's not going tovary depending on whether we're talking about thepension plan or something else. JUSTICE KENNEDY: But -- but doesn't therisk or the potential of a fixed-fund pension plan whereemployees who are not parties to this action receiveless? Isn't there at least that possibility? MR. RUSSELL: There's only that -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: And shouldn't thatpossibility be weighed in the decision of this Court? Ithink that's the line of questioning here. MR. RUSSELL: And my suggestion is, numberone, that there's no realistic possibility of that here.But, number two, that that's a -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: And there's no realisticpossibility that some pensions are based on a fixed fundwhich has been established already? MR. RUSSELL: I don't think so. If you aretalking about a defined benefit plan, which is what wehave here, any increases in liability simply mean thatthe employer has to -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: But I take it that this decision you want us to write applies across the boardto all plaintiffs. MR. RUSSELL: I think that it does, but Ithink that it could quite possibly apply differently,for example, through a (k) plan where thediscrimination would have occurred at a time when peopleare making running contributions. But ultimately, Imean, I think that this Court has taken into accountthose kinds of things at the remedial phase, where youhave an opportunity to look at the facts about how thiswould affect the pension in this case or pensionsgenerally. There's simply no evidence here to suggestthat there are those kinds of problems, because very fewemployers as far as we can tell continue this kind ofdiscrimination. Most have eliminated it decades ago.And we're talking about a small subset of employees andrelatively small amounts of money with respect to eachof them. So I think -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Russell, what do yousay to Mr. Phillips' argument that you brought -- youbrought essentially this case way back when, that theunion said that this retirement plan is in violation ofTitle VII? MR. RUSSELL: Well, first of all, I mean, my individual-named clients didn't bring those claims backthen; and they lost, the union that brought this claim.And then there were -- if I recollect correctly, theywere challenging at that moment the denial of theirdisability leave payments. They weren't coming in andsaying simply, you know, the only harm we're facing nowis the prospect in the future of a lower pension. And that's the kind of hypothetical futureharm that we don't think Congress would have intended tobe the basis of a lawsuit, not -- one of the -- when theentire purpose of enacting (e)() was that Congresswas concerned not to require employees to run to courtevery time there is some discrimination that affects theamount of their seniority, because that causes adisruption to the employment atmosphere, it creates workfor the EEOC and the courts, and in many, many cases themarginal difference in the amount of the senioritycredit we are talking about here will make no bigdifference at all to anything. JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, when you say there'srelatively little amounts of money, can you tell us whatamount -- what the maximum amount would be involved?Are you -- MR. RUSSELL: I think -- and we haven't haddiscovery on this. I think there is a fairly linear relationship between the amount of leave and thepercentage of the pension check, and so we're talking inbetween -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: Would it be less than$,? MR. RUSSELL: Per person? JUSTICE KENNEDY: Would it be -- for thewhole suit? MR. RUSSELL: No. It would be more thanthat. It would be about half of a percent to maybe twoand a half percent per person. JUSTICE KENNEDY: Would that be a million --a million dollars? MR. RUSSELL: It could be millions ofdollars. And the plan that -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: But that -- that's a smallamount of money, a million -- millions of dollars? MR. RUSSELL: It's a small amount of moneyto a plan that has tens of billions of dollars in it.AT&T's last report to the SEC said they had a$ billion surplus in that fund. There's no questionthat this is going to bankrupt this particular fund. JUSTICE SCALIA: What -- what do you doabout section (h) of Title VII, which -- which wehave held says that -- that makes it lawful for a bona fide seniority system to perpetuate the effects ofpre-Act discrimination? MR. RUSSELL: The distinction between (h)and this case is that, in this case, we challenge asystem, a seniority system that is itself faciallydiscriminatory, and (h) says that doesn't apply -- JUSTICE SCALIA: That hinges -- that hingeson your "facially discriminatory." MR. RUSSELL: It does. And in addition, wealso have the argument that the Ninth Circuit accepted,but -- that the PDA on its own terms says, that (h)doesn't apply to permit discrimination that the PDAitself would forbid. JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, yes, that's -- that'srather implausible, but (h) covers sex discriminationand even race discrimination, but it doesn't coverpregnancy discrimination. I mean, I -- MR. RUSSELL: You may think that, but -- JUSTICE SCALIA: You need pretty clearlanguage to persuade me of that. MR. RUSSELL: I think that in the end, Imean, it's worthwhile to focus on the consequences ofaccepting AT&T's view. On the better view, it dependsmightily on whether an employer keeps a running tab onseniority, in which case they can avoid the application of the PDA because it made the calculation beforehand,and an employer who, at the end of an employee's career,simply tabulates the term of employment, which I thinkunder their view subjects that employer to the currentrequirements of the PDA. And we respectfully suggestthat Congress wouldn't intend Title VII to turn on suchtrivial distinctions. Moreover, under their view, an employerwho -- an employer would be able to pay black workerstoday smaller pensions than white workers who providedexactly the same amount of service, if those blackworkers started working for it before Title VII wasenacted, at a time when the employer had no pensionsystem for blacks and didn't give them any senioritycredit. That employer could say the same thing AT&Tsays here, which is that the present disparity inpension benefits is simply the present effect ofdiscrimination that was lawful when it occurred. JUSTICE SCALIA: You mean there are a lotmore suits coming behind this one -- MR. RUSSELL: Well, I don't think -- JUSTICE SCALIA: -- for any kind ofdiscrimination that preceded Title VII? When was TitleVII enacted? MR. RUSSELL: . JUSTICE SCALIA: There may be still some ofthose people around. MR. RUSSELL: There are. There are, butit's very unlikely that there are very many of themsubject to this kind of -- JUSTICE SCALIA: I mean, you're scaring me. (Laughter.) MR. RUSSELL: Well, let me reassure you,because I think most employers, unlike AT&T, have --don't make those kinds of distinctions with respect totheir employees who were hired before and after theeffective dates of the relevant provisions of Title VII.And I think it's -- JUSTICE BREYER: I take it you are notsaying anything that is in effect and is still there,you do retro, you win. I take it -- maybe I am notright, but I take it that what -- what the point is hereis that you -- you took a complicated superstructure ofrules that was creating boxes and those boxes werecreated on the basis of discrimination. Then you moveit, whole cloth, into the post-new world. And it's theadministration of that complicated system of rules thatwas created out of the discrimination, but it'sadministration today that makes it like Bazemore. MR. RUSSELL: Yes, that's -- that's right. That the present implementation of the system subjectsit to the present-day requirements of Title VII. JUSTICE BREYER: It does that, but what Ican't figure out is does that have a lot of implicationfor other areas or not? And the other thing I'm notsure of is how it squares with Ledbetter. MR. RUSSELL: Well, the difference betweenLedbetter and this case is Ledbetter involveddiscrimination entirely outside of the seniority system,and as a result, it didn't -- (e)() didn't apply;this Court's decision in Lorance didn't apply. AndCongress enacted this (e)() to provide a veryspecial rule to displace the rule of evidence. It was-- it was unambiguously intended to displace the rule ofevidence with respect to intentionally discriminatoryseniority systems. MR. RUSSELL: Evans isn't a problem becausethe rule they were administering in Evans is whoever ishired is in fact hired at low seniority. Now, it's hardto say that that's a complicated system of rules thathad a pre-existence, even though this individual waswhere she was because of that earlier system. MR. RUSSELL: Again, I think the distinctionbetween Evans and this case is discrimination thatoccurred entirely outside of a -- the seniority system and discrimination within the seniority system thatgives unequal credit for equal service. And Congresssaid of that kind of discrimination -- we're not goingto make you challenge immediately. We're going to letyou wait until the reduced seniority has a concreteeffect on your compensation or other terms andconditions of employment, and then you can raise itthen. And the underlying thought of the provisionis that if you are subject to intentional discriminationwith respect to seniority accrual, we are going toimpute that intent to the subsequent applications ofthat seniority system when it's applied to injure you.And if -- JUSTICE STEVENS: I still want to go back toassure that I've given you a fair opportunity to answerthis. You are relying on Nashville v. Satty, which wasa discriminatory impact case, and now you are arguingthat the key is the -- is the intent. Which is it? MR. RUSSELL: We make alternative arguments. JUSTICE STEVENS: Oh, okay. MR. RUSSELL: We argue that to the extent itmatters whethers this was lawful at the time our clientstook their leave, it was not unlawful, and we point toSatty. But we say ultimately that doesn't matter because under section (e)(), so long as theyimplement, so long as they rely on the diminishedseniority in the present, that constitutes a present actof pregnancy discrimination, intentional pregnancydiscrimination, which is unlawful under the PDA. JUSTICE STEVENS: Well, as soon as you getback to the intentional, you get away from Satty. MR. RUSSELL: Yes, I agree with that. JUSTICE STEVENS: Oh, okay. MR. RUSSELL: But I don't think there can beany dispute that when my clients had their seniorityreduced, it was an act of facial pregnancydiscrimination; and under -- (e)(), that intentto discriminate on the basis of pregnancy is -- JUSTICE STEVENS: But it was not unlawful atthe time it was done. MR. RUSSELL: I do think it was unlawful,but it doesn't matter with respect to (e)(). If I could turn briefly to the retroactivityargument: It's important to be clear what the NinthCircuit held and what it didn't hold. It did not holdthat AT&T was liable for anything it did prior to theeffective date of the PDA. It didn't, for example, holdthat it was liable simply because it moved the NCS datesor because it relied on them in any way before the effective date of the PDA. All it said was that AT&T isprecluded from relying on that discriminatory measure ofservice in the future. And in that sense, this case is quite likethis Court's decision in Griggs v. Duke Power Company,where the Court said Title VII prohibits employers fromrelying on the results of discriminatory employmenttests. Now, nobody thought that that meant that TitleVII subjected to liability employers who administered orrelied on those tests before the effective date of TitleVII, but everybody understood that they couldn't rely onthose results after the effective date of Title VII, andnobody thought that that gave the statute a retroactiveeffect. And that's all that the Ninth Circuitinterpreted the PDA to do here, is to prohibit AT&T fromengaging in the post-Act reliance on those pre-Actdiscriminatory measures, that AT&T had every opportunityto conform its -- to conform its conduct to the -- tothe requirements of the PDA, and a statute that simplytells an employer how it has to treat past events forfuture employment decision purposes is simply not astatute that has a retroactive effect. Finally, I'd like to -- if I have time, I'dlike to address this suggestion from the Solicitor General's Office that this doesn't involve senioritydiscrimination at all because what we are talking abouthere is discrimination that occurred with respect to thepersonnel policy about the classification of leave, asopposed to discrimination within the seniority systemitself. And this Court was clear in CaliforniaBrewers that an accrual rule that says how time countsfor seniority purposes is part of the seniority system.And under AT&T's system, it's true you have to apply atwo-part rule. You have to know whether -- if you areasked, does this pregnancy leave count, you have to ask,well, is it personal leave? But that doesn't tell youanything until you apply the second part of the rulethat says pregnancy leave counts as -- as personalleave. And because you need to know the answers to-- to both of those questions, both parts of the rulesare properly considered to be part of the accrual ruleand part of the seniority system. Finally, if I -- if I could return onceagain to this alternative argument that we have, thateven setting aside Bazemore and section (e)(), thisis not -- our clients weren't required to challenge thisdiscrimination before because it wasn't an completed, unlawful employment practice at the time. And, again, the point is that discriminationwith respect to a small amount of time going towardsseniority doesn't affect even the worker's actualseniority, that is, her place in the seniorityhierarchy. A worker who is years' junior to theperson who is next in line above her and years' seniorto the person next in line below her -- weeks ofservice credit aren't going to make any difference withrespect to her place on the seniority hierarchy. It'snot going to make any difference with respect to herability to bid for jobs. And it's not necessarily evengoing to make any difference with respect to herpension, because at the time that these leaves are takentypically, the person is years away, perhaps decadesaway, from even vesting in their pension benefit. And Congress reasonably would have thought,I think, that that kind of harm is too speculative towarrant immediate -- to warrant the requirement that theemployees have to immediately challenge that kind ofdiscrimination at the time it occurs. That's whyCongress enacted section (e)(), to give employees anopportunity to wait until the discrimination has aconcrete effect on their employment status, on theircompensation or terms of employment. And AT&T's view of the statute -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: Are you -- are you makinga claim that they had the choice or that the claimwasn't ripe until they felt the impacts of it? MR. RUSSELL: I think they don't have achoice. They can't bring the claim until it has aconcrete impact. Now, if (e)() applies, they canchallenge the system as of -- when it's adopted or whenit's applied to them, but otherwise they have to waituntil it injures them within the meaning of section(e)(). And that's a perfectly sensible rule. Remember, we're talking here about facialdiscrimination, and the concerns about stale evidenceare not particularly strong here because -- and, as aresult, we are able to stipulate to the underlyingfacts. Everybody knows what the system was and what itdid. And there's no reasonable dispute about whetherthe reduction in our clients' leaves was as a result ofpregnancy versus something else. And in any event, thisis simply a consequence Congress must have intended whenit said that discriminatory seniority systems are opento challenge whenever they apply to injure a worker,even if that means that so long -- if an employerimplements a plan for years, Congress understood that that meant that they were subject to suit for years. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, Mr.Russell. Mr. Phillips, minutes. REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF CARTER G. PHILLIPS ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER MR. PHILLIPS: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice. I'd just like to make a couple of points:Justice Ginsburg, you asked a question about the earlierlitigation, and let me just quote from the first page ofJudge Bright's opinion where it says the appellants inthe class action allege that Southwestern Belldiscriminates against women by, quote, "refusing toextend full seniority credit to female employees onmaternity leave." That is precisely the claim that'sbeing litigated in this particular case. And contrary to my brother's position just afew minutes ago, that these don't have any impact andwhy would anybody act on the basis of them, it seems tome that that lawsuit belies that fact. They recognizethe impact on seniority, and they acted immediately as aconsequence of that. Justice Souter, I do agree with you. Ithink the reason that Bazemore is not the -- I wouldn'tsay "line" -- more the point of authority to be as the departure in this particular case is because of theimplications for the seniority system. Justice Kennedy, the problem here is wedon't know exactly what the impact's going to be. Whatwe do know is that all plans are funded on a set ofactuarial assumptions, and, candidly, if they say wewere overfunded a couple months ago, given to what hashappened to my pension plans in the last couple ofmonths, I would worry a little bit about what thesituation is. But the -- but the most fundamental point isyou don't know. And in that context, what we dounderstand is that Congress routinely says protect theseniority systems, protect the pension plans. You know,my colleague says, well, but this is all form oversubstance because what if they come back at the end anddecided to do all these calculations? Thatfundamentally misunderstands the nature of the pensionprocess. You have to fund these in advance. You makeactuarial assumptions. No one is in a position wherethey're going to allow the determination of seniority tobe made at the tail end without making assumptions aboutwhat they are going to be like going in. And, Justice Breyer, I think that is theanswer to your question because we are not taking this complex system wholesale and just dumping it post-PDA.What we did is we retained the specific rules withrespect to the accrual and the seniority, and weeliminated the underlying distinctions between pregnancyand other kinds of disabilities. And that's how weapply it, and that, frankly, is fundamentally differentfrom Bazemore because we are not discriminating everyday in a way that harms them. We made a senioritydecision, like a pay decision, pre-Act; now we areacting -- it's not a pay decision post-Act. And it's --to my mind in that sense it is just like Evans and thatline of cases. Finally, you asked the question, JusticeSouter, could Congress have done -- have done exactlywhat the Respondents ask? And the answer to that isyes. Congress could say today we're not going to allowthis. It would upset a lot of pension plans. It wouldupset a lot of expectations. Congress could have done it. Congressdidn't do it, or at least if it were going to upset allof those reliance interests, Congress would have done soin language that was much more explicit than what it hasdone in the PDA and (e)(). If there are no further questions, YourHonor, I urge you to reverse the judgment below. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, Mr.Phillips. The case is submitted. (Whereupon, at : p.m., the case in theabove-entitled matter was submitted.) Aability ::able : :above-entitled: :absolutely ::acceptable:accepted :accepting :accords :account ::accruable :accrual :: :: :,:accrued :: :accumulateacknowledgeacknowledged:::act :,,,,: :: :,: :: :,:acted :acting :action : ::actionable :: :actions ::,acts : :actual :actuarial ::added :,addition :address :addressed :adequacy :adequate :administered:administering:, :administration: :,adopt :,:,adopted ::,,,: ::, :,: :adopting ::advance :adversely :advising :affect : :African :ago : :: :: :agree : :: : ::Aiello :AL :allegations :allege :alleged :,allegedly :allow ::allowing :alluded :alternative: :Americans :amicus : ::amount ::,,,:,,: :amounts :: ::analogies :analysis ::analyzing :answer :: :: :: ::answers :anybody :apart :APPEARAN...:appellants :application: ::, :: ::applications:applied :,: :: :,: :: :applies ::: :: :,:, :: :::appropriateappropriately::areas :argue ::arguing :argument ::, :,: :: :,:, :: :: :argumentsarises : :arose : :arrangementarrangements::::aside :asked :: ::asking ::,assertion :assiduous :Assistant :assume :: ::assumed :assuming :assumptionassumptions:,,assure :atmosphere::attendants :Attorney :AT&T : :: : ::, ::, :: ::,,AT&T's :: :: :authority :available :average : ::avoid :a.m : :Bb :back : :: :: :: :: :background:balance :bankrupt :bargained :base : ::based :: :: :,:Basemore :basic :basically ::basis : :,: :, ::, :: ::,,,: :,,:,,:,,,: :,:, :: :,apply : ::applying :attendant : :,,: :: ::Bazemore :: :,:, :: :,: :,: ::,, ::, ::,,,:,,,: :: :: :began :begs :behalf :,: :,,,: :: :belies :Bell : :benefit ::, :: ::benefits :: : :: :,: :: :best :Bethesda :better :,,:beyond :bid : :bidding :big : :billion :billions :bit : :bizarre :black :: :,:,blacks :Blatt : ::,,:, ::,,:, ::, :,: ::,,:,board :bona :bookkeeping:books :boxes :,Brewers :Breyer :,: :: :brief :,,:,briefly :Bright's :bring : :: :bringing :brother's :brought ::, :: :Btu :bump :CC : :calculated :calculating::calculation: :calculations:California :candidly ::care : :career :carried :carrying :CARTER ::, : :case :, :,:,,,:, :: :: :,:, :: ::,,: :,:,,,:,,: ::,,:,,,: ::, ::, :: :: :: :,cases :: :: :,: :: :cause :,:causes :centrality :cents :certain :certainly :: :challenge :: :: :,challenged :challenging :change :changed :: :,: ::charge :charging :check :checks :Chief :,:, ::, ::, :: :,: :,:choice :,choices :Circuit : :: : ::, ::,,: ::circuits ::,Circuit's :: :circumstance:circumstances:, ::cite :cited :claim : :: :,: : ::,, :claimed :claims : :: :: :class :,classification::clear : :: :: :,: :: :clearly :,:client :clients :: :: :: ::cloth :cognizable :colleague :come : :: :coming :: :Communicati...:companies :company ::,,: ::compensation: ::competitive::complaint :completed :completely :: ::,complex :,:compliance ::, :: :complicated: :,:, :computing :concede :, decisions :differentialsconcedes :concerned :: :concerns :conclusion:concrete :: :condition :conditions :conduct :conform ::::Congress ::,,:,, ::, :: ::, :: ::,,,:consequence :: ::consequences:, :considered:consistently :constitutes ::, :: :: :construction: :contend ::contending :context :: ::continue ::continued :contrary ::contributionsconventional:::Corporation :correct :,: :correctly :: :counsel :count :counted ::counter :counts ::,couple : ::court :,:,, :: : :: :,,:, :: ::,,,: :,: :,: : :: :,:,,,:, :: ::courts :,:Court's :,: :,: :: ::cover :covers :created :,creates :creating :credit :: ::, :: :: :: :: ::credited :,:, ::credits : ::critical :curiae : ::current ::, :: ::cushier :DD :date : :: ::,,dates ::day :,: :: :days : ::, :day's :,,,de :deals : :decades ::December :decide :decided :: ::decision :,: :,: ::, :: :: :,:,,: ::,deducted :deemed ::defend :deference :defined :,:definite :definition :degrees :deliberate ::deliberately:denial ::denied :Department:departure :depend :depending ::depends :deprived :described :determination:determined :determining:detrimental:difference :: :: :,: :,:different :: :: ::differential:::differentiatedifferently :diminished :direction :disabilities ::disability :: ::disabled :disagree ::discharged :discovery :discriminate: ::, ::, ::discriminated: :: :discriminates:,, :,: :,: ::discriminating: ::discrimination: :,: :,:,,: :,:, ::, ::, ::,,, :, ::, :: :,: :: :,: :,:,,:, :: :,:,, ::, :,:, ::, :discriminatory:, :,:,,,:,,:,, :: :,:, :: :,:, ::,,:,,,: :,:,,,,: :,:,,:, :: :: :,: :discuss :discussing :disparate ::, ::, ::,,,,: :,disparity :displace ::dispute :: :disruption:distinction ::::: :: :: :distinctions :: :distinguishdistinguishabledistinguishesdocked : :dollar :dollars :,:,draw :drawn :drew :due :Duke :dumping :D.C :,,EE : :,earlier :: :: :early :EEOC : ::,,,:, :EEOC's :effect : :: :: :: :,:effective ::,,: ::,,effects : ::effort :,Eighth :,,: :,either :: :eliminated: :employee :,:, :: :employees :: :: :,: :: :: :: :,:employee's :: :employer :: : :: :,: ::,,,,: ::employers :: ::,employment: : :: :: :,:,,enacted ::, ::enacting :endanger :engaging :entire ::entirely :,entitled :: :: ::entry :equal :,: ::, :era :Escher :ESQ :,,:,,,essentially ::established :: :ET :evaluating :Evans : ::, :: :: :: :,: :event : :events :everybody: ::evidence :: :,:exact : :exactly :: ::, :: :: :example :: :excuse ::exist :existed ::expect :expectations: :: :explain :explained :explicit :exposition :extend :extent :extra :,Fface : :: : ::faced :facial : :: :facially ::,,,:,,:, :: :,:, :: :,:, ::, ::,,: :,facing :fact : :: :: ::, ::factor : :: :factors : :facts ::faded :fair : :fairly ::fairness :fanfare :far : : ::feel :felt : :female :,: :fide :figure : filed :filled :Finally :: :find :finish :first : :: :: :fixed :fixed-fund :flight :,:Florida :focus :forbid :force : :forced :,forcing :form :formation :fortiori :forward ::frankly :fresh :fringe :full : :: :fund ::, :fundamental:fundamentally: :funded :funding :going :,::further :future :: :,:,F.d :GG : :,:, :game :,gender-based::General :generally :General's :getting :,: :Gilbert :,: ::,,: :: :,: :,Ginsburg :: :, :: ::, :: :: :: :give : :: :: ::given : :: :gives : :::giving :,go : :: : :: :,: ::, :: ::,, ::,,:,,,:,good : :goodbye :governed :grant : :granted :greater :Griggs :guess :Hh :half : ::happen :happened :: : :hard :harm :,::harms :hear : :heard :heavily :height : ::, ::held :,: ::hierarchy ::hinges :,hired ::,history :hold :,,home :Honor :hook :Hulteen : :hurt :hypothetical: ::Iidentically:illegal :: :: :,illness :imbued :immediate :: ::immediately: :: :: : :: :impact :,:, :: :,: :,,:,,,: :,: :,: ::,impacts :impact's :impermissibly:implausible: :implement :implementation:implements: :implication :implications:importance :important :impose :imposed ::imposes :imposition: :impute :incentive :,,includes ::inconsistentincorporate::increased :increases :indicates :indistinguisha...individual :individualized:::individuals :individual-na...inexplicableinformation:::initially :injure ::injures :injury : :insight :: ::insofar :instituted :,intend :intended :: :intent :: :,:intentional: :: :,: :: :,intentionally: :,:,,:,,,,:, :: : : :interest :interests ::, :interfere :interpretation: :,interpreted: :involve :involved :: ::involving :irrelevant :issue : :::issued :issues :Jjob :, :jobs :Judge ::judgment :: ::junior :Justice : :: : ::, :,: :,: :,:,,,:,,,:,,,: :,:, :: ::,, :: ::,,,: :,: :,: :,:, ::, :: :,:, :,: :,: :,:, ::,,,:,,,:, ::,,: ::,,,: :,: :,:,, ::, ::, ::,,,:, ::Kkeeping ::keeps :Kennedy ::,,,: :,:, :KEVIN : :key : :::kind : ::, :: :: :: :,kinds :,:, ::know : ::, :: ::, ::, ::,,knowing :knows :Llanguage :: ::large :Laughter :law :,:, ::lawful :: :: ::, :: :: :: :,: ::lawfully ::, ::lawsuit ::leave : :: ::,,,,:,,,:, ::,,:, :: :: :,:,,:leaves :,,:,,: :,,: ::Ledbetter :: ::,, ::, :: :,,legal :,:, ::legislation :Let's : :liabilities :liability :,:, :: ::liable :,light :limited :line :,,: ::,,,: :,: :linear :lines :,liquidity :LISA : ::litigated :litigating :litigation :: :little : :: :loath :long : :: :,:, :longer :look : : ::, ::,,,:, :: ::,,: :looked :,looking :::looks : ::Lorance ::, :: :,: :lost : :lot : :: :,low :lower : :Mmajority ::making :,: ::male :Manhart :manifestly:manner :mantra-like:manual ::,marginal :married :: :maternity ::, ::matter :: :: :: :matters :: ::maximum :MD :mean : :: ::, :: :: :: :, mind : ::,:, ::meaning :means :meant : :measure :measures :medical :members :memories :men :,,:mentioned :merits :mightily :million :,millions ::::minimis :minute :minutes :,missing ::mistake :misunderstands:model :modified :moment :money :: ::,months ::,motivated :move : :moved :M.C :NN :, :Nashville :nature : :NCS :necessarily:need ::neutral :: :never : :nevertheless::new : :,Ninth : ::, :: ::nondiscrimin...: :NOREEN :notice : :,notion :number : :: :,OO : :obligation :observed :obviously :: :,:occurred :: :: ::occurs :offer :Office :Oh : ::okay :: :old :once :ones :ongoing :open :operates ::operating :opinion :opportunities:opportunity: :: ::opposed :opposite :oral : : :: :order : :: :ordered :,ordering :orders :original :ought :outside ::,overfunded :overruled ::overruling :PP :page : ::paid : :: ::, :pain :par :parallel :parents :part : :: :,:,particular ::, :: :particularly:parties :parts ::passage :: :: ::passed ::, ::pause :pay : :: :: :,: :,paycheck :: :,paychecks :paying ::,,payment :: :payments :PDA : :: :: :: :,: :,:, :,:,,:pecking :pension :: :,: :,:, :: :: :,:, :: ::, :: :,: :pensions :: :people :: :: : :: ::percent ::,percentage :perfectly :: :: ::period :: :,periods :: :,:,permit :perpetuate :perpetuation:person :,: :,:,,personal :,:,personnel ::persuade :Petitioner ::, :,: : :: ::, :Petitioner's:phase :Phillips : :: :,,: : :: :: ::,,:, :: :: :,,:: :,physical : picture :place : :: ::,plainly :plaintiff :plaintiffs :plan :,: :,,: :: ::, ::,,: :,:,,: :,:, ::, :,:,, :: :,:planned :planning :plans : ::, :please : ::plot :,plus :point : :: :: :: :: :: :: :: :position ::, :: :possibility ::,,possibly :post-Act ::post-new :post-PDA :potential ::Power :practice :preceded :precisely ::precluded :predicates :pregnancy: ::, :: :,:,,: ::, :: ::,,: :,: :: :,:,,,:, :: :,:, :: ::points :policies :policy : :: :,:,,,: :,:,,,: :,,:prejudicial:premise :present : :: ::, :: :,: :,present-dayPorter ::pretty :prevailing :pre-Act :: :: :pre-chargingpre-existence::pre-Gilbert :pre-PDA ::pre-Title :primary :prior : :: ::private :probably ::,problem :: :: :problems :process ::program :programs :prohibit :prohibited:prohibits :pronounce :properly :prospect :prospectively: ::protect :,protected :provide :provided :::providing :provision :,:provisions :purely :purported :purpose ::purposes :: :: :put : ::p.m :Qquarrel ::question :: :,: :,:,,: :,: : :: :: :,: :: ::questioned :questioningquestions :::: ::quote ::,RR :race : ::, :race-based ::racial ::racially :raise : :raises :rationale :,react :read : :readily :real :realistic ::reality :really ::reason : :: :reasonable :reasonably::reasons ::, :: :reassure :REBUTTAL: :Recall :receive :recognize ::recognized :recollect :records ::::reduction :referred :reflects :refused :refusing :regard :regarded ::regular :relationship: :relatively ::quite : :reduced : relevant ::reliance ::, ::relied :: :relief :relies :rely :,,: :relying ::,remains :remanded :remedial :: :remember: :remotely :reply :report :representative:require :required ::requirement: :requirements: :: ::reserve :resign : ::resolution :respect :: :: :: :: :: :: ::,,,:respectfullyrespond :,::Respondent :: :Respondents: : :: :: :response :restarts :restore ::result ::,results :,retain :retained :retirement :: :,: :: :,:, :retro :retroactive: :,:,,: ::,retroactively:retroactivity: :: ::Retrospective:return :returns :reverse :rhetorical :Ricks :right : :: :: :,: :: :,:,, :: :,rightly :rights :,: :,ripe : :risk :ROBERTS :: :,: :,:, :: :: :routinely :rule : ::, :,,: ::,,,:,,,:rules :: :,: ::run : :running ::Russell : ::,,:,,:,,:,,,: :,:, :,: :,:, :: ::, ::,,:, ::, ::, ::, ::,,,:,,,:, ::, ::, :: :,: ::SS : :, ::SAH-tee :salaries ::salary :,: :: :Satty :,: ::,,: :,: ::, :: :SAT-ee :saying :: ::,,: :says : :: ::, :: :,: :,: :,SCALIA ::, ::, :: :,: :,: :,:,scaring :scatter :,scenario :scheme :school :scrambling:SEC :second :: ::,,:section :: :: :: :: :see :,:, :: ::,senior :seniority ::, :,: :, ::,,,:, :,:, :: :,: :,:, ::,,:,,,:, :,: :,: :: :,:,,,: :,:,,: :,:, ::,,:, :,:,, ::,,: :,:,,:,sense :: :: :sensible :separate :: serious :service :: :: :,: :: :: : :set : :setting :::Seventh :sex : :: :,: :,:, ::, ::sex-based :short :show :showed ::showing :sick :sickness :side : ::signature :significant :significantly:similarly :simply : :: :: :: :: :: ::, :: ::, ::, :sit :situation :: :: ::situations :,small :,:, :smaller :Solicitor :somebody :soon :sooner :sort :sought :,Souter :,:, ::, ::,,: : ::, ::,,:, ::Southwestern:speak :special :: :specific :specifically :: ::speculative:squares :stage :stake :stale : :staleness :start :started :starting :statement :statements:States :,,: : :status :statute :: :,:,,,:, :: :,: :,: :statutory :staying :Stevens :,: :,: :,: ::,,: :,:, ::, ::,Stevens's ::stipulate :stopped ::,stripped :strong :stronger :structure ::, ::,,:subject :: ::subjected :subjects :: :submitted ::subsection:subsequent:subset :subsidiaries:substance :substantial :subtle :sue : :sued :suggest ::suggestion: :suggests :suit : :suits :summary :superstructure:supporting :: :Supreme :,sure : :::surely :surplus :system : ::, :: : :: :,:, ::,, ::, ::,,:,,,:,, :: :,,: ::,,,: :,:,,,:, ::systematic :systemically:systems :: ::TT :,tab :tabulates :tail :take : :: :: :: :,:taken :, :: :: :,,:,,: :: :talked :talking : :: :: :: :,: :: ::tell : ::tells :template :tens :term : :: :: :terminated:,terms :: :: ::tests :,Thank : :: :,:, :thing : :: :: :things :: :think :,,:, :,: :,: :, : ::, :: ::, :,: :,:, :: :: :,: ::,,: :: :: ::,,:,,:,,,:,,:, :: :,: :,: :: :third : :third-party :thought :: :: :,:three : ::,time :,,: : ::, ::,,: :,: :: :: ::,,,:,,:, :: ::, ::, :: : :: :: :: :: :,,:times :time-barred:Title : :: :,:, :: ::,,,: ::,,,today : :: :,: ::, :: :,:,,:,,,: :,: ::told :,: : :total :totally :touched :traditionally:traumatic :treat : :treated :,::treatment :: :trickier :trivial :true : :,:, ::truth :try : :trying :: ::turn : :: :turns ::twice :two : ::, :: :: ::two-part :typically ::Uultimately :: :: :unable :unambiguouslyunanimously::unconstitutio...: :,underlying :: :understand: :: :: :,: ::understood: :undo :unequal ::, :unfair :union :: :United :,,: : :unlawful :: :,:,,,: ::,,,:,,:, :: :,: :: ::,,:untimely ::unusual :upset :,:,,upsets ::urge :use : :: :uses : :Vv : : :: :vacated :value :vary :versus :vested ::vesting :view :,:, :VII : :: :,:, :: :: :,:, :: :,,:violation :: :vis-a-vis :Wwage :wages ::wait : :: :wake :want : :: ::warrant ::Washington ::,wasn't :: :: :: ::waste :way : :: :: :,:, :: :,: :: :: :,: :: :ways :Wednesday :weeks ::weighed :weren't ::we're : :: :: : :: ::we've :whethers :white : ::whites : :wholesale :win :woman : :women :: :,:,,,: ::Wood :word :words :work :,,: :,:, ::, ::worker :: ::workers :,:worker's :workforce :working :: ::, :world :worry :worthwhile:wouldn't :: ::write :Xx :, :Yyear :years ::, :: ::,,: :yesterday :Zzero-sum :: : :s :(h) : :(h) :: :,:(e)() :: :: :: :: :,:,,: ::, : :,$$, :$ :- : : : :: : :: :, : : : : : : : : : : : :, : : : : : ::, :: : : : : ::(k) : : : :s : : 