 IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATESOfficial- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -xTOBY DOUGLAS, DIRECTOR, CALIFORNIA :DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH CARE SERVICES,: Petitioner : No. - v. :INDEPENDENT LIVING CENTER OF :SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA, INC., ET AL. :- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -xand- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -xTOBY DOUGLAS, DIRECTOR, CALIFORNIA :DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH CARE SERVICES,: Petitioner : No. - v. :CALIFORNIA PHARMACISTS ASSOCIATION,:ET AL. :- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -xand- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -xTOBY DOUGLAS, DIRECTOR, CALIFORNIA :DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH CARE SERVICES,: Petitioner : No. - v. :SANTA ROSA MEMORIAL HOSPITAL, : OfficialET AL. :- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -x Washington, D.C. Monday, October , The above-entitled matter came on for oralargument before the Supreme Court of the United Statesat : a.m.APPEARANCES:KARIN S. SCHWARTZ, ESQ., Supervising Deputy Attorney General, San Francisco, California; on behalf of Petitioner.EDWIN S. KNEEDLER, ESQ., Deputy Solicitor General, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; for United States, as amicus curiae, supporting Petitioner.CARTER G. PHILLIPS, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf of Respondents. Official C O N T E N T SORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGEKARIN S. SCHWARTZ, ESQ. On behalf of the Petitioner ORAL ARGUMENT OFEDWIN S. KNEEDLER, ESQ. On behalf of the United States, as amicus curiae, supporting the PetitionerORAL ARGUMENT OFCARTER G. PHILLIPS, ESQ. On behalf of the Respondents REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OFKARIN S. SCHWARTZ, ESQ. On behalf of the Petitioner Official P R O C E E D I N G S (: a.m.) CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argumentfirst this morning in Case -,Douglas v. Independent Living Center of SouthernCalifornia, and the consolidated cases. Ms. Schwartz. ORAL ARGUMENT OF KARIN S. SCHWARTZ ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER MS. SCHWARTZ: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court: There are many reasons why this Court shouldnot recognize a private cause of action to enforce(A), and I'd like to focus on three. First isseparation of powers. Congress controls who can enforceFederal law, and it has not provided for -- for privateenforcement of (A). Instead, it has provided foradministrative enforcement. Second is the Spending Clause context inwhich the case arises. The very legitimacy of SpendingClause legislation depends on the States' voluntary andknowing acceptance of its obligations. For this reason,if Congress wants to provide for private partylitigation, it must do so clear and unambiguously, andit has not done so in this case. Official And third is the language of (A) itself,which is broad and undefined and which includescompeting policy interests. These are suited toadministrative enforcement, with all the expertise andjudgment and discretion and administrative know-how thatcan be brought to bear. These three principles all focus -- allpoint to one conclusion -- that section (A) is notenforceable. JUSTICE GINSBURG: Ms. Schwartz, thegovernment doesn't have the injunctive power -- as faras California's rates are concerned, California putsthem into effect. The government can't stop that fromhappening, even if the government thinks that they arein violation of the Medicaid Act; is that right? MS. SCHWARTZ: No, Your Honor, it -- it isnot. I mean, in the sense that it can't go outimmediately and get an injunction, Your Honor iscorrect. However, the government has the power to denya State -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: Yes, but that's a verydrastic remedy, and it's going to hurt the people thatMedicaid was meant to benefit. Does the government haveany injunctive power, or is its only -- only remedy afund cutoff? Official MS. SCHWARTZ: Well, its only remedyprovided by statute is to terminate funds. However, itis not a drastic remedy; it -- and it is the remedythat's provided -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: How often has ithappened? MS. SCHWARTZ: How often does it happen? JUSTICE GINSBURG: How -- how often has inthe Medicaid context -- MS. SCHWARTZ: Very rarely, and the reasonfor that is because the way that most State planamendments operate is that these issues are resolved ona consensual basis, generally within the daysprovided by regulation. This case is the exception thatproves the rule. JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, Ms. Schwartz, isn't itthe exception because in fact you end-run -- end-ran theadministrative process, that you put your regulations,your new rate schedules, into effect even before yousubmitted them to HHS, and continued them in effectwhile HHS was considering them, and continued them ineffect to the extent that you were allowed to do so byinjunction, even after HHS disapproved them? MS. SCHWARTZ: There is no end run herebecause HHS's own regulations provide that our time for Officialsubmitting a State -- State plan amendment is within the days that the amendment will take effect, and HHSwill confirm that -- this is the position of the FederalGovernment that the State may implement its ratereductions while the State plan amendment is pending.It does so at the risk that, if a State plan amendmentis disapproved, that it may have to pay additionalfunds. But we did not do an end run around anything.We are entirely consistent with the administrativeprocess. JUSTICE KENNEDY: Could a State in its owncourts provide for procedures whereby adversely affectedparties could test the regulation? MS. SCHWARTZ: I don't believe so. Andthat's because in -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: It seems to me you have tosay that. Otherwise the next question would be underGonzaga, you wouldn't say that a State can entertain amonetary cause of action. So, I think that's consistentwith your position. MS. SCHWARTZ: Well, and I think what's veryimportant to focus on here is that this is not just anyFederal statute that's being enforced, but it is aSpending Clause provision that is vague and ambiguous inits terms. It cries -- it has all these policy elements Officialto it, and it cries out for administrative review. JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, when you say -- thatbrings me to a slightly different point. You -- youintroduce the fact or the consideration of what'sadministratively workable. The brief by the former HHSofficials says quite to the contrary. It -- it saysthat there are almost $ billion of HHS expendituresthat are supervised by people. That works out to million each; and they say, we don't have time for this.And it's much more efficient and it's much moreconsistent with the application of -- proper applicationof Federal law to allow this action to be brought in the-- in the courts. MS. SCHWARTZ: I have two answers, YourHonor. One is that I don't think it is more efficientto have district court judges interpreting a statutethat does not have any objective standard but that issusceptible to many different interpretations. JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, Ms. Schwartz, theagency -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, I mean, that's "thesky is falling" -- judges. It would be just eachdistrict if it were in every district. And it -- it --and certainly to the extent we are involving a State,there would be only one State involved. So -- so, there Officialis just the State of California, and there are only fourdistricts there, and the suit could only be brought inone. So, I -- I think that's an -- you know, I don'tthink that the "sky is falling" argument really works. MS. SCHWARTZ: But California is now subjectto standards that don't apply anywhere else in thecountry, and I believe the Court acknowledged exactlythis problem just last term in Astra v. Santa Clara whenit declined to allow private parties to use a contractprovision to do an end run around Gonzaga,Sandoval versus -- Sandoval v. Alexander; I think I havethat reversed -- and the other cases that, based onseparation of powers of principles, based on SpendingClause principles, limit the -- the circumstances inwhich private parties can sue. JUSTICE ALITO: Are you asking us to adopt arule that is good for this one case only? MS. SCHWARTZ: A -- JUSTICE ALITO: You gave -- or is there --could you state the rule in broader terms or moreneutral terms? And you gave three reasons why we shouldreverse. One, Congress hasn't created a cause of actionhere. Well, Congress has never created causes ofaction, never creates a cause of action in any case in Officialthe Ex parte Young line or cases like that. The Supremacy Clause, because this is aSpending Clause -- this was an act under the SpendingClause. But you're not asking us to hold that SpendingClause legislation can never pre-empt State legislation,I take it. And then the language of (A), where you --are you arguing that -- that the Medicaid Actaffirmatively precludes any action like this? I don'tunderstand that -- is -- is any of those argumentssufficient by itself, or do you have to take them alltogether, and you're asking for a rule that only applieshere? MS. SCHWARTZ: No, all of the -- all ofthose arguments are sufficient, as is the fact that, aswe briefed, the Supremacy Cause itself doesn't supply acause of action. But let me focus on those threepoints. These are points -- the rule that we areseeking is that a Federal statute is not enforceableunless Congress intends for it to be enforceable andthat that principle has special force with respect toSpending Clause provisions where Congress has to clearlyand unambiguously provide for that enforcement, becausethe State has to be on fair notice, due to the nature of Officialthe Spending Clause, of the obligations to which it isagreeing. That is Pennhurst. And that is applied witheven greater force with respect to (A) because of thetype of standards that it incorporates. If it's not suitable for -- if thedetermination applying Gonzaga is that you're -- ifyou're finding under the administrative nature andflexible nature of those standards is not appropriatefor private enforcement, that shouldn't matter whatvehicle you are using to bring the case. And I want to just -- to put this into realclear context. In the years that this case has beenpending, California has submitted State planamendments outside of the rate context. Thirty-six ofthem were approved. The rest were withdrawnvoluntarily. These cases -- and they were all approved,almost all of them, within the -day period. So,the -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Excuse me. Werethose -- MS. SCHWARTZ: -- administrative processworks. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Were those amendmentssubmitted before they took effect or after they hadtaken affect, like here? Official MS. SCHWARTZ: I don't know the answer tothat question. These are non-rate -- rate-relatedamendments, State plan amendments. But the point is theadministrative process is working. We obtained -- andit resolves, in the usual case, in a consensualresolution that is consistent with the cooperativenature of the joint venture between -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I'm -- MS. SCHWARTZ: -- the States and the FederalGovernment. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: That's where I'm alittle bit confused. The injunction here only stoppedyou from implementing the rate changes until you gotapproval from HHS in its administrative process that itwas going to approve the amendment, correct? MS. SCHWARTZ: No, I don't believe theinjunctions were that limited. And so, if we obtainedState plan approval, we then would have to go back tothe courts and argue over what the impact is of -- ofthe State plan. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: That's a separatequestion about whether the courts are required to givedeference to an HHS finding. But the injunction herewasn't one that said you could never do this. It justsaid go finish the process, right? Official MS. SCHWARTZ: No, the injunctions were notso conditional. And the -- and the point I want to makeis the injunctions have disrupted the administrativeprocess as it is intended to work by drawing out theprocess, by politicizing the process, by prejudicing ourability to get State plan approval because now there'sthe concern about what about retroactive relief if weapprove your State plan -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, the courts, I takeit, have the prerogative, perhaps even the obligation,under the primary jurisdiction rationale to simplywithhold adjudication until the agency acts. MS. SCHWARTZ: And we requested that in someof these cases, and the courts ignored that argument.And so, the upshot is that we are now -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: But that's an abuse ofdiscretion, not an absence of power. You're arguing anabsence of power. MS. SCHWARTZ: Well, there is no cause ofaction. That's correct, Your Honor. Our position isthat there is no cause of action here. JUSTICE KAGAN: So, can I go back to thequestion that Justice Alito asked you about why there'sno cause of action? You are asking us to treat theSupremacy Clause differently from every other Officialconstitutional provision. Why should we? MS. SCHWARTZ: Well, for several reasons,Your Honor. First, when -- what you're doing here, whatthe Court is doing here, is enforcing a Federal statute.You look through the Supremacy Clause to theobligations that -- JUSTICE KAGAN: The Supremacy Clause is partof the Constitution. MS. SCHWARTZ: It is. JUSTICE KAGAN: And the Petitioners here --excuse me. The -- the plaintiffs here essentially saidthat the Supremacy Clause as part of the Constitutionhad been violated and sought, not damages, but only aprospective injunction. And the question is, why thecourt shouldn't do what the court has done many, many,many times before, tens and tens and tens of timesbefore, and say, yes, that's our prerogative and we'llproceed to the merits? MS. SCHWARTZ: Two points, Your Honor.First, they did seek damages, and they obtained damagesin Independent Living. And second is the obligationsthat are imposed, the study requirement, the datarequirement, all these obligations are imposed by (A).You look through the Supremacy Clause to the statute tosee the obligations. And so, the question is, does OfficialCongress get to control who enforces those obligationsor not? JUSTICE KAGAN: In a -- in a cause of -- ina suit that's brought under a statute directly, a personcould be claiming damages. Here that is not the case.A person is only claiming injunctive relief. And thatshould -- there should be a difference between those twoin terms of when the cause of action is available. MS. SCHWARTZ: First, just one point: InIndependent Living, they did claim damages, and theyobtained damages. But setting that issue aside, no,Your Honor, this Court has -- has the obligation and theright with respect to constitutional provisions todetermine how they will be enforced, subject potentiallyto congressional action, but there is far more latitudefor the Court. With respect to statutes, of course, asthis Court is explained in Davis v. Passman, deferenceto congressional intent is appropriate. And here -- JUSTICE ALITO: Well, suppose the plaintiffshere were facing an imminent State enforcement action.Would your argument be different? MS. SCHWARTZ: Well, if -- if the plaintiffsfell within -- yes. And if the plaintiffs fell withinthe bill in equity to restrain enforcement proceedingsthat was at issue in Ex parte Young and that Justice OfficialKennedy has discussed in terms of the immunity toinvalid regulation, then the result would be different.But there are several reasons why -- JUSTICE ALITO: But how does that squarewith the argument that you made that -- relying onseparation of powers, the Spending Clause, and thelanguage of (A)? All of those are still in play -- MS. SCHWARTZ: For a couple -- JUSTICE ALITO: -- in that situation. MS. SCHWARTZ: Well, for a couple ofdifferent reasons. First of all, a defense, which iswhat you're asserting in such a case, is not a cause ofaction. And so, it doesn't implicate the separation ofpowers concerns to the same degree as a stand-alonecause of action to compel the State to comply with anobligation owed to another entity. Also, in those cases, there -- in the equitycases -- equity doesn't provide a remedy just for aninjury. You have to have an invasion of what in oldtimes was called a primary right. But what that meansis a right to property or a right in the person. Andthere were other kinds of primary rights, but -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: But what about theproviders who say, but under -- under the State law, ifwe charge more than the hospitals -- if we charge more Officialthan the State ceiling, we are subject to sanctions, sothis does fit into the category of anticipatorydefenses? MS. SCHWARTZ: No, it does not, because wehave not threatened to enforce that statute. They arenot arguing that statute is -- is pre-empted. They --the -- the statute that they are -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: But wouldn't they be --the rates go into effect. Someone charges more on thetheory that the rates are impermissible under theSupremacy Clause. That person would be subject tosanction under State law. MS. SCHWARTZ: And that would be a differentcase, and it would be a closer case, although even inthat context, because of the Spending Clause context inwhich the case arises, I don't believe that they wouldbe able to challenge that as -- under the SupremacyClause. But that is not this case. That case atleast presents the fact -- and the reason why it's acloser case is because in that case there is regulationand we are potentially infringing on their property.However, what's the law that they are trying to assertdefensively there? It is -- as a Spending Clauseprovision that has administrative standards, that's been Officialentrusted to Congress. So, shouldn't Congress be ableto enforce it? Fundamentally, this Court -- JUSTICE SCALIA: Excuse me. You spoke ofthat, Justice Ginsburg's question, as though it was ahypothetical. But that could happen, couldn't it? Whatif one of these Respondents charged more than the Statelaw permits? Wouldn't -- wouldn't the State moveagainst them? MS. SCHWARTZ: Of course, we would, and theywould have a decision about whether to stay in theMedicaid program or not. But the question is, does thisCourt exercise its equitable powers to create a cause ofaction -- that Congress itself has not? That's reallythe question for this Court. In the Spending Clause context with respectto this kind of standard that is suited foradministrative standards, we submit you should not. Unless there are any further questions, YourHonor, I'd like to reserve our remaining time forrebuttal. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel. Mr. Kneedler. ORAL ARGUMENT OF EDWIN S. KNEEDLER ON BEHALF OF THE UNITED STATES, AS AMICUS CURIAE, SUPPORTING THE PETITIONER Official MR. KNEEDLER: Mr. Chief Justice and may itplease the Court: Medicaid is a cooperative program betweenthe Federal Government and the States. Congress has notcreated a cause of action under that Act for privateparties to enforce particular provisions of it. Nor does paragraph (A) confer privaterights that are enforceable under . Rather,paragraph (A) is written in general terms thatdescribe the general undertaking by the State in itsbilateral relationship with the Federal Government. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Mr. Kneedler, isyour argument in this case limited to Spending Clauselegislation? MR. KNEEDLER: Yes. And what -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: And if it's not, couldyou please -- you said yes, it is. MR. KNEEDLER: Yes. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But give me thetheoretical foundation. If the Supremacy Clausedoesn't -- I'm assuming you agree with your -- withPetitioner that it doesn't provide for a cause ofaction. MR. KNEEDLER: Yes. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Is that your position? MR. KNEEDLER: Yes.Official JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Then what gets all ofthe cases that we've had since into this Court thathave granted injunctive relief on supremacy arguments? MR. KNEEDLER: I -- I think that the greatmajority of those cases are ones in which the plaintiffin the suit in equity is bringing an action anticipatingan action at law. And there -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, but we -- we haveplenty that don't: King, Townsend, Carlson. We've hadmany others that are not dissimilar -- MR. KNEEDLER: They -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- from this case. MR. KNEEDLER: I think that they -- thoughthat they do not reflect a general assumption that thereis a cause of action directly under the SupremacyClause, because as this Court said, the Supremacy Clauseis not itself a source of rights -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So, go back and explainto me how all of those cases -- MR. KNEEDLER: To -- I -- I think -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: What's the theoretical? MR. KNEEDLER: I think there is -- I thinkone has to look to an equitable cause of action, which Ithink is the way Ex parte Young describes what was going Officialon in that -- in that way, as anticipating -- it was adefense anticipating an action at law. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So, go to your --Petitioner's response to one of my colleagues, toJustice Scalia, when she said yes, if these providersdecide to charge the old rate to their patients, theState will go after them. How is that any differentthan the cases where we're talking about railroadscharging -- not charging customers more than a Statecommands because the penalty's too high, or -- MR. KNEEDLER: I -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- or those types ofcases that fall into this pre-emptive category thatyou're talking about? MR. KNEEDLER: That has not been plaintiffs'theory of this case. They have not said that we'regoing to resort to self-help and charge more than theState allows. What they -- what they want to do is theybrought this suit to challenge the rates in the firstinstance. They are not claiming that they're going toviolate State law and charge more; they are simplywanting to challenge the rates that the State hascharged. If I could return to the -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But you haven'texplained how that's theoretically different than the example I just gave you.Official MR. KNEEDLER: Yes, I think it is, and if Icould explain why -- JUSTICE SCALIA: So, all they have to do, asfar as the Government is concerned, is amend theircomplaint to say: We intend to charge higher rates thanthe State law allows. MR. KNEEDLER: And I -- JUSTICE SCALIA: And then you -- you'd agreethat the suit would lie. MR. KNEEDLER: I'm -- I'm not sure. Therewould be further questions that would arise in thatcontext. For example, it's -- I don't know whether --whether a -- whether in a prosecution under the statutefor charging -- that prohibits charging more than Staterates allow, whether you can raise as a defense in thatprosecution a challenge to the validity of the rates. JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, gee, we're notdeciding a whole lot here, then. Just -- it's just amatter of pleading that we're deciding, right? MR. KNEEDLER: Well, that's why I'm sayingthere might be a further question in -- in what you'redescribing as to whether that would be a valid defensein the State prosecution, because I can certainlyimagine the State saying: We don't want our rates Officialtested in individual criminal prosecutions any more thanwe would want them tested in affirmative -- JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Kneedler, why shouldthis even matter so much whether there's a defenseavailable in a regulation that's brought against aperson or not? In your brief, you admit that there arenumerous cases that don't fit within that category,where the -- but where the -- where the State has actedin some sense to change the behavior of the person, toregulate the person, even if that person doesn't have aproceeding in which to mount a defense. And we -- thisCourt has treated those cases in exactly the same way,haven't they? MR. KNEEDLER: Yes, but unexamined. And letme say, we are not challenging those cases. And theCourt, we think, doesn't need to look more broadly to atheory. We are -- to -- to an all-encompassing theory.We are focusing on Spending Clause legislation in aparticular cooperative Federal/State program -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So, you think -- MR. KNEEDLER: -- under the Spending Clause. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So, you think theremay well be implied rights of action outside theSpending Clause context. MR. KNEEDLER: I think probably the best way Officialto explain them is equitable cause of action drawing onthe courts' traditional equitable jurisdiction. Youcould call that an implied cause of action under theSupremacy Clause, but I think, historically, it's beendescribed as an -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So -- MR. KNEEDLER: -- exercise of the courts'equitable authority. The court has equitablediscretion, and we think, because of the Spending Clausenature of this legislation, it should not create a causeof action -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So, your -- youranswer to my earlier question was that you're notarguing about that in this case. MR. KNEEDLER: Right, we are -- we arefocusing on -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So, theGovernment -- the Government -- we don't have a positionfrom the Government on whether or not there is animplied right of action under other constitutionalprovisions. MR. KNEEDLER: Under -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I mean, outside theSpending Clause context. MR. KNEEDLER: We are certainly not Officialchallenging the existence of a cause of action atequity. I'm -- I'm just -- I think we would view it asa cause of action in equity rather than implied underthe Supremacy Clause, but I think you may -- you mightget to the same place, but I think it is judicialcreation of a cause of action. But if I could before mytime expires -- JUSTICE SCALIA: You -- you do not evenexclude all Spending Clause cases. You only excludethose Spending Clause cases where -- where the plaintiffdoes not say we are -- you know, we're going to violatethe State law, and they're going to come after us. So,you haven't made an exception for the Spending Clause. MR. KNEEDLER: Well, it -- I don't thinkthere's any categorical rule because, for example, underSpending Clause cases, you can have rights enforceableunder . Our basic point is the Spending Clause is acontractual relationship between the Federal Governmentand the State, and the Respondents here are in theposition of the people asserting rights as third-partybeneficiaries to the bilateral relationship between theUnited States and the -- and the States. Under standardcontract law principles -- JUSTICE KAGAN: But, Mr. Kneedler -- MR. KNEEDLER: -- the third-party can sue Officialonly if the parties intended him to be. JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Kneedler, this is whatyou said in your cert stage brief: You said, "Thoseprograms in which the drastic measure of withholding allor a major portion of the Federal funding is the onlyavailable remedy" -- and you are talking here aboutSpending Clause programs, obviously -- "would begenerally less effective than a system that also permitsawards of injunctive relief in private actions." MR. KNEEDLER: Yes, and the circumstances inwhich the Court has made that point and that we agreewith are often in situations where you have Title ,Title instances of individual discrimination that arearising under Federal programs, or where you have aright under where -- where there is an enforceableright that a party has and is going into court and issupplementing the agency's oversight. Here, under -- under paragraph (A), youhave only general standards that are really suitable foradministrative review, with balancing general -- JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, can that really be thedifference? I mean, do you think if (A) werewritten -- were drafted as a formula, a rate scheduleformula, that there would be a cause of action, butbecause (A) is more general in nature, that there is Officialno cause of action? I mean, surely that's a questionfor the merits of whether there is pre-emption or not. MR. KNEEDLER: Well, I -- I don't think it'sjust a merits question. I think it also goes to thequestion whether the parties to the contract intendedthird-party beneficiary-type rights to be able to sueunder -- under a -- what is really analogous to acontract. I would also point out that this Court'sdecision in Maine v. Thiboutot, which first recognized a cause of action, pointed to prior cases enforcingSocial Security programs, on the assumption that could have been the only source of the cause of action.If there was an implied judge-made cause of action inthose circumstances, that assumption would have beenunwarranted. JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Kneedler, before yousit down, could you please enlighten us on two factpoints? One is, what is the status of the (A)rulemaking? Because I take it once the rule is made, itwould get Chevron deference. You said that there wouldbe a final rule in December. Is that still -- MR. KNEEDLER: I am informed that it mayslip past December, that there -- there has been a lotof interaction with -- with comments on it. I don't Officialknow a precise date, but I'm informed that that may bepossible. JUSTICE GINSBURG: How about the -- thestatus of the -- the hearing on California'scompliance -- MR. KNEEDLER: That is -- that is stillpending. There have been extensions. There have alsobeen planned amendments that have been submittedcovering some of these same rates. Justice Ginsburg, I also wanted to respondto one of your questions. I do believe the UnitedStates would have an injunctive action in certaincircumstances. For example, if the United Statesdisapproved a plan and a State continued to -- a planamendment, and a State continued to follow the terms ofthe disapproved plan amendment, I think the UnitedStates would have a cause of action to enforce -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: Under the -- MR. KNEEDLER: -- as the party to thecontract. JUSTICE KENNEDY: Under a pre-emption --would it be a pre-emption argument? MR. KNEEDLER: No, it would be enforcing the-- the terms of its agreement with the -- with theStates. Official JUSTICE KENNEDY: Do you -- MR. KNEEDLER: It doesn't have to rely onpre-emption in those circumstances. JUSTICE KENNEDY: Do you agree with thecounsel for the Petitioner that if the State chose toallow its courts to issue an injunction on SupremacyClause grounds in the State courts, that that would beimpermissible? MR. KNEEDLER: We think it's a harderquestion, but probably so, because we believe paragraph(A) does not confer private rights, and that would betrue in the State court as well as Federal court. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, Mr.Kneedler. Mr. Phillips. ORAL ARGUMENT OF CARTER G. PHILLIPS ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTS MR. PHILLIPS: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justiceand may it please the Court: I'd like to focus on two points that cameout of the questioning in the first part of the oralargument today. First of all, I would like to focus on thequestion -- the comment, at least, and the question thatflows from it, from Justice Alito, which is that there Officialhas never been a recognition of a cause of action in anyEx parte Young case. And that's a hundred percent true,and I didn't hear response to the other side thatsuggests anything to the contrary. And the reason for that is, obviously, whatthis Court said in the Verizon case and what it said inShaw is that you look to the Supremacy Clause as thebasis for arising-under jurisdiction, and then if youhave jurisdiction, then you look to the traditionalequitable standards to determine whether they've beensatisfied in a particular case. And under this Court's decision in Ex parteYoung, what the Court said was "an injunction whichrestrains the state officer from taking any stepstowards the enforcement of an unconstitutionalenactment, to the injury of the complainant" is thebasis for relief. And that's exactly the circumstancethat we have in this case, and thus -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Why isn't -- whydoesn't your position constitute a complete end runaround all of our implied right of action jurisprudence?We've wasted a lot of time trying to figure out whetherthere's an implied right of action under a particularstatute if there has always been one under the SupremacyClause? Official MR. PHILLIPS: Mr. Chief Justice, there is avery fundamental difference between an implied right ofaction or an action under section and -- and a verysimple and straightforward Ex parte Young remedy that'sotherwise available. Under , at private rights ofaction, the district courts, the Federal courts, Statecourts for that matter in enforcing them, have authorityto grant damages, they have much broader injunctiverelief, and under section , there's -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: How can they havemuch broader -- broader -- first of all, all of thosecases -- I don't know if all of them did, but certainlya lot of them did include -- included claims forinjunctive relief. And I would have thought the court'sauthority under your equitable action under theConstitution would be at least as broad as it would beunder the statute. MR. PHILLIPS: Well, Ex parte Young has beenpretty consistently evaluated as saying simply youcannot do what the Constitution immediately prohibitsyou from doing. And so -- and, frankly, the Ex parteYoung remedy has been a negative -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But your position -- MR. PHILLIPS: -- not to violate the -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Your position -- Official MR. PHILLIPS: -- not to violate theSupremacy Clause. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Your position isthat the Constitution prohibits you from doing anythingwhere the State law is pre-empted by the Federal law.That doesn't sound very narrow to me. MR. PHILLIPS: Well, but -- but if you goback and look at the cases in which relief has beeninvolved, a case like Blessing -- in Blessing, thecomplaint there sought essentially to take over theentire State law function of providing support forchildren. And that was the injunctive relief that wasrequested. And if the Court had adopted the notion that carried with it a private right of action, thatwould have been available relief; there would have beena claim for damages in that circumstance; and therewould have been access to attorneys' fees. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What if the -- MR. PHILLIPS: None of those things isavailable here. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What if the law thatCongress is -- Congress passes sets forth certainFederal standards -- it's a cooperative Federal-Statelaw like this one -- and it says: And there's noprivate right of action for any individual to enforce Officialthis. That's limited to the Federal Government. MR. PHILLIPS: In that -- in that situation,there's obviously no authority to bring a private rightof action under the statute. That still doesn't answerthe question whether or not there is a right to invokethe Supremacy Clause -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So, Congress cansay -- MR. PHILLIPS: -- when there's a conflictbetween Federal and State law. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Congress can say inthe same statute that confers the allegedly pre-emptiveFederal standards that we do not want individualsbringing actions in court to enforce this. We want toleave that up to HHS. And you're saying, even thoughCongress said that, individuals can nonetheless bring asuit under the Supremacy Clause, the theory of which iswe are making sure that Federal law controls. MR. PHILLIPS: Right. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: The same Federal lawthat says you can't bring a cause of action. MR. PHILLIPS: No, I understand that,Mr. Chief Justice, but you still have the problem thateven under those circumstances, a regime can arise inwhich there is a square and, in this case, you know, I Officialthink undeniable, conflict between Federal and Statelaw, and the question is -- and that that conflictimposes not only injury in fact to an individual butalso imposes irreparable harm. JUSTICE GINSBURG: But you're saying then,if Congress loud and clear says, we want HHS to be thesole enforcer of this law, you're saying-- MR. PHILLIPS: Of the Federal statute. JUSTICE GINSBURG: Of this, yes. You'resaying that that would be ineffective because therecould still be a Supremacy Clause claim. MR. PHILLIPS: Yes. Whether or not youwould in fact get relief under the Supremacy Clauseseems to me a very -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: That's on the merits -- MR. PHILLIPS: -- tough question. JUSTICE GINSBURG: -- but Congress says, wedon't want anybody coming into the court. We want -- MR. PHILLIPS: I don't think Congress hasthe authority to essentially say there are someconflicts between Federal and State law that we willsimply ignore even though they cause irreparable injury. JUSTICE KAGAN: Is that necessary to yourposition, Mr. Phillips? MR. PHILLIPS: Absolutely not, Justice Kagan.Official JUSTICE KAGAN: Because you could take theview, right, that if Congress speaks to cut off a claim,that's one thing, and a very different thing, than ifCongress has not spoken at all. MR. PHILLIPS: Right. And it seems to mehere is a situation where you would expect Congress tohave spoken explicitly -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: Then it's a question ofwhat will be the default rule. Congress is silent. MR. PHILLIPS: Of course. JUSTICE GINSBURG: Is the default rule thatthere is a Supremacy Clause action or that Congress mustexpressly allow it? MR. PHILLIPS: And the reason why thedefault rule would almost certainly be that in fact youcan bring the Ex parte Young cause of action is becausethe effect -- the Spending Clause has been subject tothe -- to pre-emption claims since . This wholenotion that they contracted against this background ofwhat obligations did they assume -- the obligation thatthey clearly would have assumed is that if in fact thereis a violation of Federal law based on a failure tosatisfy one of the conditions of spending under thesecircumstances, you would -- they would be susceptible to Officialan Ex parte Young -- JUSTICE BREYER: Why? MR. PHILLIPS: -- injunctive action. JUSTICE BREYER: I'm -- I'm not certain ofthis. I find this a difficult case. It seems to me theGovernment is prepared to concede that if an individualhas a Federal right that he'd like to enforce andsomeone is trying to block it by asserting a State lawthat he thinks is pre-empted, he can go ahead. If itlooks as if the State is going to take something fromhim that a Federal law guarantees and he has a defensethat he'd like to make to that under Federal law, theState law that seems to allow it is pre-empted, he canmake it. Our problem arises where neither of thosethings is true. So, we say, what is true here? Whatkind of Federal claim does he have? And the word isthat rates have to be -- that the rate that the Statehas to pay back to the doctor has to be "sufficient."Okay, "sufficient." That's basically the word. MR. PHILLIPS: Right. JUSTICE BREYER: All right. So, I see threepossibilities. One is you say, sure, let all thedoctors go and sue. There are only , kinds ofreimbursement. Maybe there are a million. I don't know Officialhow many. And they only take place in, what, say,, counties. And we will have Federal judgesreaching different views about what is sufficient ineach of those different places. And sometimes they willagree. Did Congress want that? Well, hmm, a problem. The second way of going about it is curethat and say: You win, but you have to use primaryjurisdiction, and you have to get the government's viewon it, Judge; and before you decide, you have to payattention. MR. PHILLIPS: Can I -- JUSTICE BREYER: There's a long line ofcases. I have one more thing -- MR. PHILLIPS: Can I -- JUSTICE BREYER: -- then you'll get allthree. MR. PHILLIPS: But can I deal with that oneimmediately? JUSTICE BREYER: Yes. MR. PHILLIPS: Because I think it'simportant in the context of this case to recognize.We're talking about the issuance of a preliminaryinjunction that was designed to hold everything untilmatters could be avoided. We realize that we're talkingabout a situation where the State, solely for budgetary Officialreasons, without regard to Federal law whatsoever,simply made a slash in the reimbursements. JUSTICE BREYER: If I want your view, I wantyour view on whether the right approach -- you're sayingwhat's the status quo pending. And I want your view onthese three possibilities. MR. PHILLIPS: Right. I -- JUSTICE BREYER: One is the possibility thejudges just do it in all the different places, try tofigure out what's sufficient. The second is thepossibility that we try primary jurisdiction, and that'sthe -- then the curlicue on that is what do you dopending? And, you know, that's your injunction. MR. PHILLIPS: And that's what I just wantto be clear on. JUSTICE BREYER: Yes, yes. And the thirdpossibility is you say: I'm just sorry that the -- thisis just too vague, the "sufficient" et cetera. It hasto be centralized. There's no way to work this out withall these different judges and different kinds of ratesand different kinds of provisions. And so, this is aninstance where you cannot bring your claim thatsomething violates the Supremacy Clause because youdon't have a Federal right to a thing, and they're nottrying to take away a thing that the Federal right gives you, et cetera.Official All right. Do you see those threepossibilities? MR. PHILLIPS: Right. JUSTICE BREYER: And what I wanted you to dois to address them. MR. PHILLIPS: The -- the third possibility,it seems to me, Justice Breyer, is not much differentfrom a lot of the other cases that this Court hasalready decided -- JUSTICE BREYER: Yes. MR. PHILLIPS: -- like Crosby and likeEngine Manufacturers, where there's the vague standardout there, and the -- and it doesn't -- and they're notasserting a right to be -- not to have an enforcementaction brought against them. And this Court hasroutinely held in that circumstance that there is infact a Supremacy Clause action available. So, I don'tthink the third option is really an option. And it alsoultimately goes to the merits of the pre-emption claim. If it turns out that all of this is just toosquishy to evaluate, then it would seem to me that onthe merits, then you would say there's not a clearenough statement of Federal law to justify sayingthere's a conflict that would -- and, therefore, you Officialwould lose on the merits. But that wouldn't prevent youfrom going into court and trying to make the kind ofshowing that we made here. JUSTICE BREYER: You think primaryjurisdiction is the way to do it. MR. PHILLIPS: Yes. JUSTICE BREYER: You see, I see a practicalproblem, and I'm -- the practical problem is millions ofrates all judged by the term "sufficient," and insteadof the agency in charge deciding what's sufficient, wedo have a lot of judges. MR. PHILLIPS: But, Justice Breyer, theagency always has the ultimate authority here to step inand take action. And I think the real question is, isit reasonable to think that Congress meant to place thisin an agency, in circumstances where the agency isn'tgoing to receive notice of the implementation of thechange before it gets implemented, where the State ispermitted to take no -- to make no response to a requestfor information and allow the unlawful rates to go intoeffect for years on end? JUSTICE KAGAN: So, could I ask -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Fighting -- why are youfighting Justice Breyer so much? MR. PHILLIPS: I didn't think I was. Official JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I mean, it sounds likeyou are, and that's why I am having some difficulty. There are two points, following up on hisand then my second question. Engage the SolicitorGeneral's suggestion that this isn't a cause of actionunder the Supremacy Clause, but that it is a cause ofaction under some implied equitable -- MR. PHILLIPS: Doctrine. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- doctrine, okay?Which may square. And I'm now coming back to JusticeBreyer's question. I agree with all you were trying tosay about what the State did or didn't do here, but ifit's a primary jurisdiction question, what's wrong withjust saying that the court's power is limited underequity to issuing an injunction that gives the matterover to the administrative agency that puts in thestatus quo -- assuming there's some sort of violation ofFederal law or seeming violation of Federal law -- apreventive injunction that just stops the State fromacting until the administrative process concludes? MR. PHILLIPS: Justice Sotomayor -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: What's wrong with that? MR. PHILLIPS: There's nothing wrong withthat. Candidly, we -- we would be perfectly comfortablewith that, but I don't understand the other side to be Officialcomplaining about the scope of the injunctive relief.It is not that they are saying -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: No, no. They're sayingyou can't have any. MR. PHILLIPS: Right. And so -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But -- but JusticeBreyer's question, I think, was slightly different,which is, what's the limit on -- MR. PHILLIPS: Right. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- the court's power?And how do you -- MR. PHILLIPS: Well, we did have analternative argument that the injunction should --should stay into effect at least until HHS acts, and the-- the district court granted a broader preliminaryinjunction and didn't consider the alternative argumentthat was -- that was there. But, again, it seems to me that, you know,the court ought to recognize that you're in the contextof preliminary injunctive relief in this situation, and-- and there will be plenty of time to kind of workthrough the nature of the injunctive relief if in factthe court's allowed to go forward and take up the Exparte Young issue under the circumstance. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Would you engage the Officialquestion that -- the approach the Solicitor General hasbeen making, which is don't find a cause of action underthe Supremacy Clause; find it in the court's -- animplied cause of action? MR. PHILLIPS: I'm not perfectly comfortablewith that rationale. I think the answer is it's sort ofa combination of the Supremacy Clause and the -- andbroad equitable relief, rather than -- I mean, clearlyone or the other. They seem to go pretty muchhand-in-glove in the ex parte line of cases. And so, Idon't have any particular problem with that. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, I might, if youcontinue in your earlier position that a SupremacyClause cause of action would stop Congress from having a-- a voice in enforcement in cutting it off clearly, ifCongress were to write a law that says no one canenforce this, either in damages or in injunctive relief.Your earlier answer seemed to suggest Congress didn'thave the power under the Supremacy Clause to do that. MR. PHILLIPS: Well, I -- suppose therewere -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: If this were inequity -- MR. PHILLIPS: It will depend on the -- onthe circumstances of the case, but I do think there is Officialsome gap between the full extent of Congress's power inthis area and -- and the protections of the SupremacyClause, if for no other reason -- and because theexecutive branch also has the authority and, certainlyacting within its own exclusive authority, could --could pre-empt State law or could create a situationwhere State law would be pre-empted. And I don't thinkCongress would have the authority to -- to take away theEx parte Young remedy under -- under those particularcircumstances. JUSTICE ALITO: What is your response to theargument that the equitable power exercised in Ex parteYoung and similar cases is limited to certain specificsituations such as where there is an imminent threat ofthe State enforcement action, and a few others wherethere's a trespass, where there's a clearly definedFederal right? I mean, it doesn't encompass everysituation in which the plaintiff simply has Article IIIstanding and wants to obtain an injunction that aparticular State law is pre-empted by Federal law. MR. PHILLIPS: The -- I mean, to be sure,the Court in Ex parte Young was dealing with a specificsituation of trying to prevent enforcement. But the --the Supreme Court -- this Court in all of its decisionspost-Ex parte Young has never said that that's the only Officialcircumstance and has certainly never said that inexercising the judicial power under Article III thatextends to all cases in equity, that it means only theequity that existed in -- in the th century at thatpoint in time. So, it seems to me the right answer at thisstage is for this Court to look at the situation andsay: Is this a context in which equitable relief wouldbe appropriate? And if you just use the preliminaryinjunction standards, it clearly would be appropriateunder -- under these particular circumstances, where wehave a likelihood of success on the merits, irreparableharm, and the balance of harms favor the -- favor theplaintiff. JUSTICE BREYER: Right. JUSTICE KENNEDY: So, what is the bestauthority in our cases, other than Ex parte Young, or ina treatise or in recognized statements of the differencein law and equity for the proposition that in this areawe can make a distinction between law and equity aftercenturies in which we've tried to say that thatdistinction ought to be blurred? MR. PHILLIPS: Well -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: I mean, do you want us --would you want us to write an opinion and say, oh, Officialthere's a difference in damages at equity? MR. PHILLIPS: Well, all -- all we -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: What do I -- other than Exparte Young, what do I cite for that? MR. PHILLIPS: Well, any of the cases inwhich the Court has recognized that obviously in orderto get -- in order to get injunctive relief, you have todemonstrate that there's -- that there's no adequateremedy at law. So, I mean, the distinction has alwaysbeen there, even after the merging of law and equity -- JUSTICE SCALIA: That -- that's not -- MR. PHILLIPS: -- in the early part of thelast century. JUSTICE SCALIA: That's not the theory onwhich we've said you can't get damages under Ex parteYoung. The theory that prevents damages is the theoryof sovereign immunity. The -- the fiction thatyou're -- that you're moving against the individual andnot against the State simply cannot be maintained whenyou're taking money out of the State treasury. That'sthe basis for it, not -- not what you just described. MR. PHILLIPS: No, but I'm -- but I'm notasking for -- for -- I mean, we're not asking fordamages here, Justice Scalia. JUSTICE KENNEDY: I know, but see -- Official MR. PHILLIPS: All we're asking foris injunctive relief. JUSTICE KENNEDY: But that -- but thatwouldn't explain the case like Gonzaga where there wasno State entity. Gonzaga was a private institution. MR. PHILLIPS: Right. But -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: So, I'm -- I'm wondering.I understand the Eleventh Amendment dynamic, which -- MR. PHILLIPS: Right. JUSTICE KENNEDY: -- as Justice Scaliapoints out, was the whole driving force of -- of Exparte Young. Is there -- is there any other basis forus to say that there has to be a law/equity distinction?You say, well, that's because there is no adequateremedy at law. But that's circular; that assumesbecause there's no cause of action -- so, that doesn'twork. MR. PHILLIPS: No, but I -- I mean, all ofthe cases that come out of the Ex parte Young line ofauthority seem to base -- you know, they all tee off,obviously, the problem that exists in this context,which is -- which is the one that Justice Scaliaidentified. JUSTICE BREYER: There must be a limit.There must be a limit because if there is not a limit on Officialwhat you can do under Ex parte Young, I can go in myoffice and I look at the statute books and they are justfilled with statutes, and I -- Federal; and if I had allthe State statute books, it would be offices or or. And I know perfectly well that a lot of thosestatutes in the Federal books have to do with agencies,and they give jobs to agencies, and it's perfectlyapparent that the ones who run those statutes in manyinstances are the agencies, and really judges are out ofit. Now, if I adopt your line, it seems to me Iam saying that any time that a person has an individualof saying that a State law is contrary to one of thosestatutes, he can run right into court. And I can seewe've done that where he has some kind of right thathe's protecting that's threatened in some way or that hewants to assert. I can see that we could do that in theforeign policy case like Burma; I can see that we coulddo that where Federal voting rights are at stake, whichare very important. But a principle that says you can do thatany time you want seems to me a little -- it's -- itseems to me the real fear of far-reaching in this extentthat it just stops the agency from doing their businessat the behest of anyone who would like to assert a State Officiallaw, or States -- it's a mess, in other words. MR. PHILLIPS: Justice Breyer, can I -- twopoints here: First of all, we are not talking about asituation of somebody seeking a roving commission to gofind out all Federal -- all situations where State lawviolates Federal law. We're -- the beneficiaries inthis case -- JUSTICE BREYER: No, no. Your people haveyour problem. MR. PHILLIPS: But those are life-and-deathproblems. JUSTICE BREYER: But some other people haveanother problem. MR. PHILLIPS: But my people have alife-and-death problem, Justice Breyer. So, if therewere ever a situation where you would say let's look tosee whether or not there is relief available, this wouldbe the situation where -- where I would hope -- JUSTICE BREYER: The doctors want to be paidmore money or at least not paid as much as they were; Iunderstand that. MR. PHILLIPS: But the beneficiaries -- JUSTICE BREYER: Yes. MR. PHILLIPS: The patients are the one wholose access to -- Official JUSTICE BREYER: So, is there a medicalexception? MR. PHILLIPS: I'm sorry. JUSTICE BREYER: Is there a medicalexception? Is it that you can have this generalizedclaim if you're a doctor, but not others? MR. PHILLIPS: No, to be sure, JusticeBreyer. The exception is that we have to satisfy therequirements of Article III. We have to have injury andredressability, and in order to get equitable relief, weultimately are going to have to demonstrate that theinjury is irreparable, that there is no adequate remedyat law. Those are high burdens -- JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Phillips -- MR. PHILLIPS: -- and in a circumstancewhere you cannot get damages and you cannot getattorneys' fees. JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Phillips, could I askyou a little bit more about how this interacts with theagency process? Now, suppose that California had donewhat, the way I read the statute, it was supposed to do,which is to go to the agency and say: We want to changeour rates. We can't afford these rates anymore, and wethink these lower rates would do just as well. Allright? Official And then the agency and California sit downand discuss the matter. Would this suit have ever comeinto being? MR. PHILLIPS: If they had just discussedthe matter? JUSTICE KAGAN: You know, they did notimpose them unilaterally. They go to the -- to HHS andthey wait for HHS to approve what they want to do. IfHHS approves -- MR. PHILLIPS: We wouldn't be here. I canguarantee you we wouldn't be here. JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, if -- if HHS approved,maybe somebody does sue. And then there's greatdeference to the agency -- MR. PHILLIPS: That's -- JUSTICE KAGAN: -- isn't that right? MR. PHILLIPS: That's exactly right. JUSTICE KAGAN: And if HHS doesn't approve,then what's there to talk about? There's no suit. MR. PHILLIPS: Right. No, there's noquestion that -- JUSTICE KAGAN: So, either way, the agencywins, right? MR. PHILLIPS: Right. The agency alwayswins. That's the rule that they -- (Laughter.)Official CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Why is there no -- MR. PHILLIPS: But then the question -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Why is there no suitif the agency doesn't approve? MR. PHILLIPS: Well, I mean -- I mean, ifthe agency -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You're sayingCongress can't say there's no implied right of action. MR. PHILLIPS: Right. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But the agency can? JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, if the -- I was justsaying if the agency didn't approve, your clients don'thave anything to complain about. MR. PHILLIPS: Right, because -- well -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Do you have the sameanswer or a different one? MR. PHILLIPS: -- I mean, I suppose itdepends on whether they go ahead. If California, in theface of disapproval, continued to violate the law, thatwould -- I assume you meant that California complied. JUSTICE KAGAN: Correct. JUSTICE ALITO: No, but the agency approvesrates and someone who's dissatisfied with the rates suesand says these rates are ridiculously low. Official MR. PHILLIPS: Oh, you can bring thelawsuit -- JUSTICE ALITO: They still can sue -- MR. PHILLIPS: -- Justice Alito. The -- thebottom line is you're going to lose that -- thatlitigation and in a circumstance where you have norealistic prospect of -- JUSTICE ALITO: Well, how do you knowthey're going to lose the litigation? Why should theylose the litigation if it's really -- if there really isa cause of action there? Some of the Medicaid rates arevery low, aren't they? MR. PHILLIPS: Well, ultimately, you have todemonstrate that there's -- that there is a -- by clearand convincing evidence, a conflict between Federal andState law. And the agency that has -- that evaluatesthe standards of Federal law will have said in a veryauthoritative way that there is not a violation underthose circumstances. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But you still have acause of action under the Supremacy Clause. MR. PHILLIPS: Oh, no, to be sure, I have acause of action. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I thought you weresaying you didn't -- Official MR. PHILLIPS: No, no. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: -- if the agency -- MR. PHILLIPS: No, no. I'm not saying youdon't, I'm just -- all I'm saying is that if the -- ifthe process works appropriately, there would be not thelitigation that Justice Breyer was worried about, whereyou would have hundreds of thousands of cases goingforward. If the process -- which, again, it goes backto the default rule. JUSTICE SCALIA: You've lost me here. You-- you say there would be a cause of action under theSupremacy Clause if the agency approves the rates, butyour clients don't think the rates are high enough? MR. PHILLIPS: Sure, we would still saythere's a -- JUSTICE SCALIA: Under the -- MR. PHILLIPS: We would still have anargument that there's a conflict between Federal andState law. JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, Federal law isdetermined by the agency, surely. So long as the agencyis complying with the Administrative Procedure Act, Idon't see how you have any -- MR. PHILLIPS: Well -- Official JUSTICE SCALIA: -- any cause of actionunder the Supremacy Clause; you may have an APA cause ofaction. MR. PHILLIPS: Well, we -- well, the problemwith the APA -- we might have an APA cause of action,but I also think that there is a -- I mean, I -- look,that hypothetical is so far afield -- JUSTICE SCALIA: Federal law is notdetermined by the agency? MR. PHILLIPS: I'm sorry, Justice Scalia. JUSTICE SCALIA: Federal law is notdetermined by the agency? MR. PHILLIPS: No, of course, Federal law isdetermined by the agency, but not without limits. JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, then you don't have aSupremacy Clause cause of action. MR. PHILLIPS: Well, I think you -- I stillthink you can bring an action under the SupremacyClause. I think, ultimately, you have very -- you havezero hope of prevailing -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Why does the -- MR. PHILLIPS: -- which was my point. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Why does the agencyget to determine Federal law when Congress doesn't? Youtold me earlier if Congress -- Official MR. PHILLIPS: Because Congress -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: -- Congress says ina statute no implied right of action, that that doesn'tcontrol. MR. PHILLIPS: Right, but that doesn't --that controls to the extent of trying to enforcedirectly the Federal statute; it doesn't control withrespect to trying to enforce the Supremacy Clause. JUSTICE KENNEDY: The Supremacy Clause saysthat judges in every State shall be bound thereby, butif you want to amend it so that judges in every Stateand all administrators should be bound thereby, then youhave a Supremacy Clause action against every Federalagency. That doesn't make sense. MR. PHILLIPS: Well, no, but what theSupremacy Clause says is that Federal law will besupreme in all circumstances, notwithstanding Statelaw -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: Number one, it doesn't saythat. There's no -- it doesn't say "all circumstances."It doesn't say that. MR. PHILLIPS: The Supremacy Clause -- well,I don't know of any exceptions in the Supremacy Clausewhere State law gets to remain supreme to Federal law. JUSTICE KENNEDY: I'm -- well, no. Justice OfficialScalia's question was related to a Federal agency. TheFederal agency does something that's inconsistent withthe statute, arguably, and you say there's a SupremacyClause violation? That's novel. MR. PHILLIPS: No, not -- not that -- notwhat the agency has done violates the Supremacy Clause;it's the State acting pursuant to what the agency hasapproved, that if you still thought it violated Federallaw, would be a basis for seeking a Supremacy Clauseaction. But, no, Justice Scalia is right. The obvious-- the obvious solution to the immediate problem is toseek review of the decision by HHS and to -- and tofollow it under those circumstances. The -- the second point that I wanted tofocus a little bit about, because it does seem to me --again, it goes to what are -- what should be thebackground principles that operate here. And a coupleof Justices specifically raised the question of, youknow, would this case be different if we were seeking tobalance-bill -- that is, to bill the extent to which wewere allowed to bill prior to the time that the State ofCalifornia reduced by percent, if we brought thatlawsuit, would that be perfectly permissible? And I understand California, I think, hassuggested that it would be, and I heard Mr. Kneedler Officialsuggest that, well, there might be some additionalissues there. But the reality is, is it seems to methat shows you just how unrealistic the -- thedistinction is in this particular case, because we'retalking about individuals -- you know, the question isnot, you know, how are you going to implement this downthe road? The question is, what do you do with someonewho is suffering a lack of access to vital medical carein a way that is irreparable? And is it realistic tothink that Congress meant under those circumstances todeprive the individual plaintiff of any kind of rights? And the answer is no. And that's -- that'sas far as the Court needs to go. It doesn't need tofigure out exactly how far Congress could deal with theSupremacy Clause. I realize that there is someskepticism on that score. But on the core questionhere, did Congress intend to deprive these plaintiffs oftheir rights under Ex parte Young, the answer is no -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: The answer is yes,they intended to deprive them of the right to sue underthe statute. I understand that you're not challengingthe proposition that this statute, when Congress wasspecifically focused on the question of how to enforcethis provision, they did not provide a right of action.And under our implied right of action jurisprudence, that means there isn't one.Official So, why when they're confronted with theprecise question did they say no, we don't want thesepeople to sue, but you say, well, they knew under theConstitution they were going to be able to anyway? MR. PHILLIPS: Because -- because there is adifference between providing a private right of actionand all the bells and whistles that go with that, asopposed to recognizing that Ex parte Young is thebackground principle that has been in place for wellover a century and that says that when the -- when thestandards for equitable relief are satisfied, the courtshave the power, and they can prevent the violation ofthe Supremacy Clause. JUSTICE GINSBURG: You said you would besatisfied with a limitation that the Court can issue aninjunction pending the administrative procedure withoutgoing on to then the substance of the question, wasthere compliance with (A) by California? MR. PHILLIPS: Yes, Justice Ginsburg, Iwould have been perfectly comfortable with that. Imean, that was one of the alternative grounds for reliefthat we sought. The district judge didn't happen to godown that particular path. But, clearly, from our perspective, the Officialimportant element is to maintain the status quo anteuntil a resolution of the legality of California'sstatute can be made, either by the agency or by thecourts. But the -- but the one thing you shouldn't beallowed to do is simply to -- to permit this to driftwithout any remedy and without any ability to get accessto medical care that's clearly inconsistent with whatCongress intended and where a remedy is available underthe Ex parte Young formulation. If there are no further questions, YourHonors, thank you. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, Mr.Phillips. Ms. Schwartz, you have minutes remaining. REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF KARIN S. SCHWARTZ ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER MS. SCHWARTZ: Thank you, Your Honor. So, there are other provisions of theMedicaid Act that are privately enforceable. This oneis not. I'd like to address the Court's questions aboutEx parte Young. Ex parte Young, of course, involved a-- the Due Process Clause, not the Supremacy Clause, asthe substantive provision of the Constitution that wasbeing enforced, and the plaintiff had an independent,free-standing property or personal right in Ex parte OfficialYoung, in all of the cases that are its progeny. Now, there's another -- I want to addressJustice Alito's point about, do we apply the rightslanguage -- the rights requirement in Ex parte Youngcauses of action? Yes, you do. Alexander v. Sandoval,California v. Sierra Club, Blessing v. Freestone. Look at Alexander v. Sandoval. The Statepasses a constitutional amendment that says Englishonly. The -- the State adopts a policy, English-onlydrivers tests. This is challenged as conflicting withFederal law and specifically a Federal regulation. TheCourt said no -- no, Cort v. Ash was satisfied.Congress drafts statutes; it controls who gets toenforce them. JUSTICE KAGAN: I'm sorry -- MS. SCHWARTZ: No cause of action. JUSTICE KAGAN: -- Ms. Schwartz. Are yousaying -- this is the way I understood you, and tell meif I'm right: Are you saying that the test fordetermining whether there's a suit is the same asthe test for determining whether there is an Ex parteYoung action? Because you talked about, you know,whether somebody has a right, which is usually thelanguage we use in the context. MS. SCHWARTZ: No, I'm not. The test for Officialwhether there is an Ex parte -- and there's differentmeanings of Ex parte Young, but none of them apply here.You can see Ex parte Young as construing a cause ofaction under the Due Process Clause. This not a causeof action under the Due Process Clause. You could see Ex parte Young as involving aspecific kind of bill in equity which is a defense ofregulation of your conduct where that regulationinfringes a personal or property right. That is notthis case. There's no regulation of Respondents'conduct, and there's no infringement of a personal orproperty right in this case. The only entity that'sbeing regulated by the State -- by the State statutethat purportedly is being -- well, that is beingchallenged as pre-empted is the State of Californiaitself because we are the entity that sets rates, and sothe -- the statute tells the agency this is how you willset rates. So, however you look at ex parte Young,plaintiffs cannot satisfy the elements of an Ex parteYoung cause of action. What I'm saying with respect toAlexander v. Sandoval and these other cases is injury isnot enough. You have to have a -- a right. Underequity, injury has never been enough, and it's not Officialenough under this Court's separation of powers decisionsand its Spending Clause cases. And I wanted to just segue very quickly tothis idea that there's a default rule that a SupremacyClause cause of action exists by default. That isabsolutely not true, and it is not true in this context,and I'd like to identify two reasons. First, the Suter fix. The -- Congressacted, when this Court in Suter said that there was nocause of action. And it said just because something isin a -- in a State plan doesn't render it unenforceable.But we want to preserve the holding in Suter. Well, it -- that suggests that other thingsare unenforceable, that Congress is not legislatingagainst a backdrop of an assumption that there's aninjunctive relief claim, or it wouldn't have requiredthe Suter fix. In Maine v. Thiboutot, another case thatassumes -- that recognizes that with respect to SpendingClause actions, the sole means -- the Spending Clausestatutes, the means, the vehicle for enforcing is . And, finally, in the Spending Clausecontext, we have the clear statement rule, which isincompatible with just an assumption that a cause ofaction always exists. Because the State has to have Officialknowing and acceptance -- knowing and then accepting --accept its obligations, we require that there be a clearstatement. Thank you, Your Honor. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.Counsel. The case is submitted. (Whereupon, at : a.m., the case in theabove-entitled matter was submitted.) OfficialOfficialPage Aability : :able : : :above-entitled:absence :,absolutely ::::abuse :accept :acceptance ::accepting :access : :: :acknowledged:act : :, :: :acted: :acting : ::action: :: :,,:, :,: :,,:, ::, :,,: : ::,,, ::, : ::,, :: :,,:,,, :: :,:, ::, ::, :,,: : ::,, ::,,,,:, ::, : ::, :,,:,,actions : ::acts : :additional : :address : :::adequate : :adjudication:administrative ::, : : ::, :,: : :: :,: :administratively :administrators:admit :adopt : :adopted:adopts :adversely :affect :affirmative :affirmatively :afford :afield :agencies :,,agency : ::,,,: : :: :,,: :,,,: : ::,, ::,, ::,,, ::agency's :agree : :: : ::agreeing :agreement :ahead : :AL :, :Alexander: :: :Alito :, :: :, :: : :,:Alito's :allegedly :allow: : :: : ::allowed: :: :allows : :all-encompassingambiguous :amend : :amendment :,,: : :,: :amendments ::, :,:amicus : ::analogous :answer: :: :, :: :,,answers :ante :anticipating ::,anticipatory :anybody :anymore :anyway :alternative :,:::APA :,,apparent :APPEARANCES:application:,applied:applies :apply : : :applying :approach: :appropriate :: :,appropriately :approval :,:approve : ::, :,approved:,: :approves : :area : :arguably :argue :arguing : :: :argument : :,:, :, :: : :: : ::, :,: : :arguments :,arises : :::arising :arising-under:Article : ::Ash:aside :asked:asking : :,: :,:assert : ::asserting :: : :ASSOCIATION:assume : :assumed:assumes :assuming :::assumption::, :,Astra :attention:Attorney:attorneys ::authoritative :authority : :: : :: :,,: :available : :: : :,: : :avoided:awards :a.m: : :Bback : :: : :: :backdrop:background :: :balance :balance-bill :balancing :base : OfficialPage based:, :basic :basically :basis : :,: : :bear :behalf :, :,:, : :: :behavior:behest :believe : :: : ::bells :beneficiaries ::,beneficiary-type:benefit :best : :bilateral :bill : :,::billion:bit : ::Blessing :, :block :blurred:books :,,bottom:bound :,branch:Breyer:,,:,, :,: :,,:,,, :: :,,,:, :,,:Breyer's : :brief: : :briefed:bring : :,: : :: :bringing : :brings :broad: : :broader: ::, :broadly :brought : : :: : :: :budgetary :burdens :Burma :business :CC : :California :,,:, : :: :, :: : :: :,: : :California's :: :call :called:Candidly :care :,, ::Carlson:carried:CARTER : ::case :,, ::, :,: : ::,,,,:, :: : ::,,, :: : :: : :: : ::, ::,cases : : :: : :: :,,:, :,,:,, :: : :: : ::, : :: : ::categorical :category : ::cause : : :: :,:,, :,:, ::, :,:,, :,,: :,,: : :: : ::, :,,: :,,: :,,,: :,,:,,causes : :ceiling :Center: :centralized:centuries :century : ::cert :certain : :: :certainly : :: : :: :cetera : :challenge ::, :challenged::challenging :: :change : ::changes :charge :,:,, ::charged: :charges :charging :,:,Chevron:Chief:, ::, :,:,,,:, ::,,, ::, :,:, :,,:, :,: :, :: : :children:chose :circular:circumstance :: : :: : :circumstances :: : :: : :: : :: : :: : :cite :claim: :: : :: : ::claiming :,:claims : :Clara :Clause :, :: :,,,,: : :,:, ::,,,: :,:, :,: :,,:,,,,: : ::, : :: :,:, :: : :,:, :: : ::, :,,:,, :,: : ::, :,:,,,,clear : :: : :: : :clearly : ::, :: : :clients : :closer:,Club :colleagues :combination:come : ::comfortable :: :coming : :commands : OfficialPage : : ::,congressional :: :Cort :counsel : :curlicue :customers :cut :cutoff :cutting :DD :damages :,: :,,: : ::,,,:data :date :Davis :days : :deal : :dealing :December:,decide : :decided:deciding :,:decision :: : :decisions : :declined:default :,,: :,defense : ::, :,: :defenses :defensively :deference :: : :defined:degree :demonstrate :: :deny :Department :,: :depend :depends : :deprive :,,Deputy :,describe :described::describes :describing :designed:determination:determine :: :determined::,,determining ::difference :: : :: :different :,: :,: :, ::, :,,: : :: : :differently :difficult :difficulty :directly : :DIRECTOR :,::disapproval :disapproved:: :,discretion: :discrimination::discuss :discussed: :disrupted:dissatisfied::,counties :country :couple :,:course : :: : :court : : :,: : :,: :,,:,, ::, :,: :,:,, :: : :: :, ::, :,: : :: : :: :courts : ::, :,:, :, ::, : :court's : :: : :: : ::covering :create : :created:,::creates :creation:cries : :criminal :Crosby :cure :curiae : ::comment :comments :commission:compel:competing :complain :complainant :complaining :complaint ::complete :compliance ::complied:comply :complying :concede :concern :concerned: :concerns :concludes :conclusion:conditional :conditions :conduct :,confer: :confers :confirm :conflict : :,: : :conflicting :conflicts :confronted:confused:Congress :,:, :,: :,,: :, ::, :,: :,,,: : ::,, :: :, :: :,,:Congress's :consensual ::consider:consideration:considering :consistent :,: :consistently :consolidated:constitute :Constitution:: :,: : :constitutional :: : :construing :context : ::, :,: : :: : :: : ::,continue :continued:,:, :contract : ::, :contracted:contractual :contrary : ::control : :,controls : :: :convincing :cooperative :: : :core :correct : : dissimilar:distinction:,: : :district :,,: : :districts :doctor: :doctors : :doctrine :,doing :, :: :Douglas :,,:drafted:drafts :drastic : : :drawing : :drift :drivers :driving :due : ::,dynamic :D.C :,,EE : :,earlier: :: :early :EDWIN : ::effect : :,: : :: : ::effective :efficient :,either: ::element :elements : :Eleventh:enactment :encompass :end-ran:end-run :enforce :,: : :: : :: : :,: :enforceable ::, :: : :enforced: ::enforcement :: : :: :,: : ::,enforcer:enforces :enforcing :: : ::engage : :Engine :English:English-only :enlighten:entertain :entire :entirely :entity : ::,entrusted:equitable :: :,,,: : :: : :: :equity : :: : :,: : :,:, :,:,OfficialPage ESQ :,, ::,,essentially :: :et :, : ::evaluate :evaluated:evaluates :evidence :ex : : ::, :,,: : :: :,,: :,:, :: : :,:, :,:,,,,,exactly : :: : :example :,: :exception :,: :,,exceptions :exclude :,exclusive :excuse : ::executive :exercise : :exercised:exercising :existed:existence :exists : :,expect :expenditures :expertise :expires :explain : :: :explained::explicitly :expressly :extends :extensions :extent : :: : ::Fface :facing :fact : : :: : :: :,: :failure :fair:fall :falling : :far: : :: :,far-reaching :favor:,fear :Federal : :,: : :: :, ::, : ::, :,,:, :,,: :,,: : :,: : :: :,:,, :,:, :,:,,, ::,, :,: :,Federal-State :Federal/State :fees : :fell :,fiction:fighting :,figure : ::filled:final :finally :find : :, :finding : :finish:first:, :,: : :: :,: : :fit : :fix :,flexible :flows :focus : : :: :,:focused:focusing ::follow: :following :force : ::foreign:former:formula :,formulation:forth:forward : :foundation:four :Francisco :frankly :Freestone :free-standing :full :function:fund :fundamental : OfficialPage government :,:Fundamentally :funding :funds : :further: :: :GG : : ::gap :gee :general :,:, ::,, :generalized:generally : :General's :Ginsburg :,:, : :: :, ::,, :,:,Ginsburg's :give : ::gives : :go : :,: : ::, : :: : :: : :: : :: :,goes : :: :going : :: :,:, :: : :,: :, :: :,Gonzaga : :: :,good ::,, :: :, ::,, :: :government's :grant :granted: :great : :greater:grounds : :guarantee :guarantees :Hhand-in-glove :happen: ::happened:happening :harder:harm : :harms :HEALTH :,,hear : :heard :hearing :held :HHS :,, ::, :,: : ::,,,,:HHS's :high: ::higher:historically :hmm:hold : :holding :Honor:, :: :,: : :Honors :hope : :HOSPITAL :hospitals :hundred:hundreds :hurt :hypothetical ::Iidea :identified:identify :ignore :ignored:III : : :imagine :immediate :immediately :: :imminent ::immunity : :impact :impermissible :implement : :implementation::implemented:implementing :implicate :implied: :: : ::, : :: : ::important :: : :impose :imposed:,imposes :,include :included:includes :incompatible :inconsistent ::incorporates :independent : :: : :individual :: : :: : ::individuals :,:ineffective :information:informed: :infringement :infringes :infringing :injunction: ::, :: : :: :,:, :: :injunctions ::,injunctive :,: : :: :,: : :,: : :: :injury : ::, :,:,instance :instances :::institution:intend : :intended: :: : :intends :intent :interaction:interacts :interests :interpretations :interpreting :introduce :invalid :invasion:invoke :involved: ::involving : :irreparable :,: : :issuance :issue :, :: :issues : :issuing :Jjobs :joint :judge : :judged:judges :, ::, : ::,judge-made :judgment :judicial : :jurisdiction:: :, :: : :jurisprudence ::Justice : :,:, :,,:, :,,:, :, OfficialPage Kagan: :: :, :: : :,: :, ::, :,:,, :: :,KARIN : :,: :Kennedy :,:, :,: :, :: :, :: :,,:,,kind : :: : :: :kinds : ::,King :Kneedler: ::, :,:,, :,:,,,:, :,,: :,,: :,,: :,,:, :,,:,, :,: :knew:know: : :lack :language : :: :,latitude :Laughter:law: : ::, : ::, : :: :,,,: :,,:,, ::,,, :: :,: :,,,:, :,: : :,: : ::, :,:,,,:,,,: :lawsuit : :law/equity :leave :legality :legislating :legislation : :: : ::legitimacy :let's :lie :life-and-death:::,, :,:, :,:,, :,: : :,: :,,:, :,,:, :,,: :,,:,, :,:, :,:, : ::,, :,:,, ::,,, ::, :,:, :,,:,, :,: :,,:,, :,: :,,:,,,,: :,,,: :,,,: :,: :,,:,,,,:,,,,: :,,,:, :,,:, :,:,, :,:,,,,: :,,,: :,,,: :,,,:,, :,:,, :: :,: :,,:Justices :justify :: : :: : :: : :: : :: : :,:likelihood:limit : : ::,limitation:limited: :: : :knowing : :,know-how:limits :line : :KL: : ::litigation: ::, :little : :: :Living : : ::long : :look :, :: :, :: : :: : :looks :lose : : ::,lost :lot : :: : :: :loud :low: :lower:MMaine : :maintain :maintained:major:majority :making : :Manufacturers:matter: :: : :: :, :matters :mean: :: : :: : :,: :,: :,,: :meanings :means : :: :,meant : :: :measure :Medicaid :,: : :: : :medical :, ::MEMORIAL :merging :merits : :,: :,: :mess :million: :millions :minutes :Monday :monetary :money: :morning :mount :move :moving :NN :, :narrow:nature : :,: : ::necessary :need: :needs :negative :neither:neutral :never:, :: : :: :new:non-rate :notice : :notion: : OfficialPage notwithstanding:novel :Number:numerous :OO : :objective :obligation:: : :obligations :: :,,,: : :obtain :obtained:,: :obvious :,obviously : :: : :October:office :officer:offices :officials :oh : :,okay : :old : :once :ones : :operate : :opinion:opposed:option:,oral : :,, :: :,order:, :ought : :outside : ::oversight :owed:PP :PAGE :paid :,paragraph :,: :part :, ::parte : :: :, ::, :: : ::,,,: :,:, :: : :,:, :,:,,,,,particular:: :,: :,: : :parties : :,: : :party : ::passes : :Passman:path:patients : :pay : : :penalty's :pending : :: :, :Pennhurst:people : :: :,,:percent : :perfectly : ::, : :period:permissible :permit :permits : :permitted:person :, :: :,,,:personal : ::perspective :Petitioner:,,:, :,,: : :: :Petitioners :Petitioner's :PHARMACISTS:Phillips : ::,, ::, :,,:,,, ::,,,,:,, :,:,,,:, :,,:,, :,: :,,:,, :: :,,,:,,, ::,,,:,,,,:,,,,: :,,,: :,,,:,,,,:,,,,:,,, ::, :place : :: :places : :plaintiff : :: : ::plaintiffs ::,, :: :plan: :,,: :,,:, :,,:planned:play :pleading :please : :,: :plenty : :point : : :: : :: : :: : :pointed:points :,: : :: : :policy : :: :politicizing :portion:position:,: : :: : :: : ::possibilities :: :possibility :,: :possible :post-Ex :potentially ::power:,,:, :: : :: : :powers : ::, : :practical :,precise : :precludes :prejudicing :preliminary ::, :prepared:prerogative ::presents :preserve :pretty : :prevailing :prevent : ::preventive :prevents :pre-empt : :pre-empted:: :, :: :pre-emption::, :: :pre-emptive ::primary : :: : :: :principle :: :principles : :: : :prior: :private :,,:, : :,: : ::, : ::privately :probably ::problem: :: : :,: : : OfficialPage :, ::problems :procedure ::procedures :proceed:proceeding :proceedings :process : :: :,,:,, :: :, ::,progeny :program: :programs :,,::prohibits :: :proper:property :: : ::proposition::prosecution::,prosecutions :prospect :prospective :protecting :protections :proves :provide : :: : :: :provided:,:,,providers :providing :::provision: :: : ::provisions :: : :: :purportedly :pursuant :put : :puts : :Qquestion: :: : :: :,,: : :,: :,,: :, :: :,,: : :: :, ::,, :,questioning :questions :: : ::quickly :quite :quo : : :RR :railroads :raise :raised:rarely :rate : : :: : ::rates : :,:, :,:, :: : :: :,,:,, ::, :,rate-related:rationale : :reaching :read :real : ::realistic : :reality :realize : :really : ::, :: : ::reason : :: : ::reasonable :reasons : :: :, ::rebuttal : ::receive :recognition:recognize :: :recognized:: :recognizes :recognizing :redressability :reduced:reductions :reflect :regard :regime :regulate :regulated:regulation: :: : :: :,,regulations :,reimbursementreimbursements::related:relationship ::,relief : : :: : :,:,, ::,, :,: : :: : :: :rely :relying :remain :remaining ::remedy :, ::, : ::, : :: : :,render:request :requested::require :required::: :response : :: :rest :restrain :restrains :result :retroactive :return :reverse :reversed:review: ::ridiculously :right : :: :,,: :,:, :,: :, ::, :,:,, :,:, :,,:, : :: :, :: : ::,,,:,, :,: :,,: : :: :,,requirement :rights : :: :requirements :reserve :resolution: :resolved:resolves :resort :respect : ::, :: : :respond :Respondents :: : :: : :: : :: : :: :,risk :road:ROBERTS :: : :: :,,: : ::,, ::, :,: :,,, OfficialPage : :,: :, :: : :ROSA :routinely :roving :rule : :,:, ::, :,: : ::,rulemaking :run : : :: :,SS :, :,,,:, : :San :sanction:sanctions :Sandoval :,:, :Santa : :satisfied::, :satisfy : ::saying :,: : :,: : :: :, :: :,: :, :: :says :, :: :,: : ::,, ::Scalia : ::,, ::,, :: :,,:,,,,:Scalia's :schedule :schedules :Schwartz: :: :,, :: :,,,: :, :: :, :: :,,:,, :,: :, :: :, ::,, ::,scope :score :second : :: : ::section : :,Security :see : :: :, ::,, :: :,seek : :seeking : ::,segue :self-help :sense : ::separate :separation:: :, :SERVICES :,:set :sets : :setting :Shaw:showing :shows :side : :Sierra :silent :similar:simple :simply : :: : :: : :sit : :situation: :: : ::,, ::,,situations :: :skepticism:sky : :slash:slightly : :slip :Social :sole : :solely :Solicitor: ::solution:somebody :: :sorry : :: :sort : :Sotomayor:,:,, ::, :,,:, :,: : :,:, :,,: :,sought : ::sound :sounds :source : :Southern : :sovereign :speaks :special :specific :,:specifically :: :spending :,: : :,,: : ::, :: :,,:, :,,:, ::, :,:,spoke :spoken:,square : ::squishy :stage : :stake :standard : :: :standards : :,: : :: : :: : :standing :stand-alone :state : : :,:,,,, :: :, :: : ::, :,: :,:, :,: :,,,: :,,: : :: :,:,, :statement :: :statements :States : :, :: : :: :,:,,,:status : :: : :statute : : :: :, ::,, :: : :: : :,: :, ::, ::,statutes : :: :, ::, :,,: : ::, :,,: :,: :,,: : ::,,,:, :,:,, :::,, ::stay : :step:steps :stop : :stopped:stops : :straightforward:study :subject : ::, :submit : submitted::, : ::submitting :substance :substantive :success :sue : : :: : :: :sues :suffering :sufficient :,:, ::, :,suggest : :suggested:suggestion :suggests : :suit : : :: : ::, : :suitable : :suited: :supervised:Supervising :supplementing:supply :support :supporting : ::suppose :: : :supposed:supremacy :,: :,,,:, ::,, :: : :,: :, :: : :: : :,:, :: : ::, :,,:,, :,: : :: :supreme : :: :,sure : :: : :: :surely : :susceptible ::Suter:,,,system:TT :,take : :,: : :: : :: :,: :taken:talk :talked:talking :, ::, : :tee :tell :tells :tens :,,term : :terminate :terms : :,: : ::,test : :,:tested:,tests :thank : :: :,,:,:theoretically :theory : ::, ::,,Thiboutot ::thing :, ::, :things : ::think :, ::,, :,:,,,: :,,: :, ::,, ::, : ::, :: :,,: : :,: : ::,,,: :thinks : :third : : :third-party :,::Thirty-six :thought : ::thousands :threat :threatened::three : : :: : :: :time : : :: : :: :,:OfficialPage theoretical :times :,:,:Title :,TOBY:,,today :told :tough:Townsend :traditional : :treasury :treat :treated:treatise :trespass :tried:true : ::, :,try :,trying : :: : :: : :,turns :two : : :: : :: :type :types :Uultimate :ultimately :: : :unambiguously :unconstitutional::undefined:undeniable :understand :: : :: : :understood:undertaking :unenforceableunexamined:unilaterally :United: :,: : ::,,unlawful :unrealistic :unwarranted:upshot :use : : ::usual :usually :Vv :,, : :: : ::,,,,: :vague : ::valid :validity :vehicle : :venture :Verizon:versus :view: : ::,,views :violate : :: : :violated: :violates : ::violation: ::, :: :vital :voice :voluntarily :voluntary :voting : Wwait :want : :: : ::, :,: : :,:, :,: : :: : :: :wanted: :: :wanting :wants : :whatsoever:whistles :win :wins :,withdrawn :withhold :withholding :wondering :word :,words :work : :: :workable :::Washington:,wasn't :wasted:way : : ::, :: : :: : :: :we'll : :we're :, :: : :: : :: :we've :, :: : :Page Officialth: : : : :: : :: :,,:, :,: : : : : : :(A) :, :,: : :: :, ::, :: : : :, : :, : : : : :, : : : :-day :working :works : : ::worried:wouldn't : ::, : ::, :write : :written: :wrong :,,Xx :,,,, :Yyears : :Young : :: :, ::, :: : :,:, ::, :,: : ::,, :,: :,,,:Zzero :$ :$- :- : : :- :: : : :: : : : 