 IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATESOfficial- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - xLAWRENCE GOLAN, ET AL., : Petitioners : v. : No. -ERIC H. HOLDER, JR., ATTORNEY :GENERAL, ET AL. :- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x Washington, D.C. Wednesday, October , The above-entitled matter came on for oralargument before the Supreme Court of the United Statesat : a.m.APPEARANCES:ANTHONY T. FALZONE, ESQ., Stanford, California; on behalf of Petitioners.DONALD B. VERRILLI, JR., ESQ., Solicitor General, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on behalf of Respondents. Official C O N T E N T SORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGEANTHONY T. FALZONE, ESQ. On behalf of the Petitioners ORAL ARGUMENT OFDONALD B. VERRILLI, ESQ. On behalf of the Respondents REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OFANTHONY T. FALZONE, ESQ. On behalf of the Petitioners Official P R O C E E D I N G S (: a.m.) CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argumentnext in Case -, Golan v. Holder. Mr. Falzone. ORAL ARGUMENT OF ANTHONY T. FALZONE ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS MR. FALZONE: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice,and may it please the Court: Section did something unprecedented inAmerican copyright law. It took millions of works outof the public domain, where they had remained fordecades as the common property of all Americans. Thatviolated the Copyright Clause and the First Amendment. Let me turn first to the Copyright Clause.In Eldred, this Court held Congress gets to pick thedate on which a copyright expires, and it can extendthat date before we reach that date. JUSTICE GINSBURG: You said that Congresscan set a time limit. In this case, we're dealing with,let's say, Aaron Copeland, who gets the benefit ofcopyright, and Congress says: No, we think Shostakovichshould be treated just like Copeland. Yes, we took careof our own when we weren't part of the world community,but now we are. Official And so, all that Congress is doing is givingShostakovich works the same limited time as AaronCopeland. And why does that violate the limited-timeprescription? MR. FALZONE: The problem is Congress is nowsetting a second limit long after the first one has comeand gone. JUSTICE GINSBURG: But the person -- theperson we're talking about, the work we're talkingabout, never got the first limit. There was no -- therewas no time, there was no time when that work could havebeen protected. So, why isn't it consistent with theCopyright Clause to say, you are entitled to limitedtime protection? We're not talking about a case whereyou've had the protection, enjoyed it, and then itexpired, and then Congress says we'd like -- we likeyour work so much we're going to give you another term. What's affected here are people who wereunprotected. And Congress says we think that theyshould have a limited time. MR. FALZONE: So, let me just clarify onething. Many of the works that were restored here didget some time, years, and were not renewed. But to get back to your question about theworks that got none -- Official JUSTICE GINSBURG: They didn't get theequivalent of what a U.S. author -- but let's take thelarge category, because it's the ones that you feature.You're talking about Shostakovich, Stravinski, and Isay, well, what's wrong with giving them the same timethat Aaron Copeland got? MR. FALZONE: Congress has been setting thelimited time at zero since . In the Act,Congress set the limit at zero for a wide array ofworks, those that did not comply with formalities, thosethat were written by foreign authors -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: That's not a limitedtime. That's saying you have no time. MR. FALZONE: Well, but saying you have notime is itself picking the limit because the language ofthe Copyright Clause forces Congress to pick a limitthat constrains copyright by marking its end. And when-- if a limit does not mark the end once reached, thenthere is no limit; there is no end. JUSTICE GINSBURG: But it has to have abeginning, too. And that's -- for these people who wereunprotected, because we didn't recognize theircopyright, there's no beginning. MR. FALZONE: No, there does not need to bea beginning. It is within Congress's discretion. OfficialRemember, this is permissive. Congress may grantexclusive rights, but it can also say your limit isgoing to be zero; we decide that you're not going to getany exclusive rights. And every Congress since , every time itwent to add subject matter, every time it went to extendthe duration of copyright, respected that choice to giveno time. And, in fact, the time -- the decision to makeforeign authors ineligible is a decision that Congresshas never gone back on. None of the exceptions theGovernment points to remove anything from the publicdomain that was placed there based upon a lack ofnational eligibility. Two hundred years of history iscrystal clear about -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: I can understand yourargument that the public domain is untouchable. I'm notsure I get that from the Constitution. That says tosecure to authors for a limited time the exclusiveright. That -- that's talking about what you can secureto authors. So, I don't see why using the words of theConstitution, to secure to authors for a limited time,Congress can't say: We want every author to have alimited time. MR. FALZONE: Well -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: The foreign works that we Officialdidn't give -- we're not treating them any better. Theydon't get a different startup date, but they get thesame end date as our own authors. MR. FALZONE: Right. The -- the operativelanguage is the limited times restriction, and the limitit requires Congress to pick is the date at which allprotection ends for good. And Congress has picked zerosince and respected that decision, and that is noaccident. Because the -- the -- if you want to knowwhat "limited times" means, if it means anything, itmeans if -- for instance, if Congress is not required torespect an expiration date long after it's passed or itsdecision to deny a work any protection in the firstplace -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: We're not talking aboutexpiration dates. So, I'd like you to concentrate -- MR. FALZONE: Sure. JUSTICE GINSBURG: That's not -- that's not-- none of these -- none of these copyrights have beenextended beyond their expiration date. They justweren't protected. MR. FALZONE: Well, taking works that got noprotection, if Congress is not required to respect itsdecision to deny a work any protection in the first Officialplace, we can never know whether we've reached the endor not. And, in fact, that's the problem with theGovernment's theory. Its theory says all Congress hasto do is attach a nominal expiration date to any givencopyright. Well, if that's true, there is -- if that'sall you need, there's nothing stopping us -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: But is it -- that is --that is not -- MR. FALZONE: -- from reaching back andgiving De Tocqueville a hundred years. JUSTICE GINSBURG: That is most distinctlynot before this case. So, please let's not talk about acopyright that has been protected, has expired, andCongress wants to revive it. We are concentrating on what Congress did tobring us into compliance with the worldwide system, andit's saying: We're giving a limited time to theseauthors. MR. FALZONE: Well -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: They never had a limitedtime before. MR. FALZONE: Well, I -- I was talking -- DeTocqueville never got any time, because he was a foreignauthor. Ben Johnson never got any time, but on theGovernment's theory, we could give him a hundred years right now.Official This statute did work differently. Itcertainly restored copyrights into the existing period.That's correct. That is an accurate description of thisstatute. But that is not a limit that's containedanywhere in the Government's interpretation of limitedtimes. JUSTICE GINSBURG: Did anyone in the same --the same -- published the same year as De Tocqueville, aU.S. author, that would have a copyright protectiontoday? MR. FALZONE: I'm sorry. I didn't hear you. JUSTICE GINSBURG: I gave the example ofAaron Copeland versus Shostakovich. Let's go back to DeTocqueville. Who has a copyright who published in,what, -- what was it? JUSTICE KENNEDY: Forties. JUSTICE GINSBURG: Yes. MR. FALZONE: The answer is nobody. Buthere is the problem. If Congress wanted to reach thatwork, here's all it has to do on the Government's theoryand even under the mechanism of section : All itneeds to do today is extend existing terms a hundredyears, and then reach back and restore into thatexisting term. So, on the Government's theory and even Officialby the mechanism on which this statute operates, thegovernment could reach back and protect De Tocqueville. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Under your -- underyour theory, let's say you have a copyright that expireson October th, okay? On October th, Congress couldextend that for years. MR. FALZONE: Yes. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Right? But onOctober th, they couldn't go back and extend it day. MR. FALZONE: That's exactly right becausethe limit the Copyright Clause requires us to pick is anend date with permanent consequence. End dates areabout finality. If that end date doesn't have permanentconsequence, if it doesn't have finality, we can neverknow if we've reached the end or not. The limit theFramers knew was the limit of the Statute of Anne. JUSTICE KENNEDY: But it seems -- but itseems to me that that was rejected in our most recent --an earlier case on copyright. MR. FALZONE: In Eldred? JUSTICE KENNEDY: Yes. MR. FALZONE: No, no. Eldred said Congresscan move the limit back before we reach it. But Eldredmost certainly did not say that Congress is free toignore the limit once we hit it, because if you can do Officialthat, then you never know if you've reached the limit ornot. The limit the Framers knew was the one in the -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Counselor, there was nolimit here, meaning these foreign works were never giventhe opportunity to be copyrighted. Isn't that asubstantial difference from the hypothetical that you'retrying to proffer? You're -- the hypothetical -- and Ithink that's what Justice Ginsburg was responding to --is you had a copyright, it expired, and now Congresswants to revive it. Isn't that different from nothaving had the opportunity at all and being given a termto exploit your work and protect it? MR. FALZONE: The answer is no, it's notdifferent; and Congress treated those situations exactlythe same in all amendments over the span of years. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: The problem -- MR. FALZONE: It gave equal respect. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I -- I know, but itdidn't do it when it set up the copyright system. MR. FALZONE: Oh, it did. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: In , counsel, therewere three States that didn't give copyrights. Therewere other States, and you make a big deal in your briefabout common law protection, but common law protection, Officialparticularly in New York, which you relied on, onlyextended to unpublished works. Once a work waspublished, it was no longer protected under the commonlaw. That was true of most States. And some Statesgave copyright protection to residents of their ownState but not to residents from other States. So, it took a whole body of public works andgave them copyright protection the day they decided topass the copyright law. So, what are you doing tellingus that there has never been a historical experiencewith Congress taking public works out of the publicdomain? MR. FALZONE: Well, let me be clear aboutwhat happened in . The Act did not removeanything from the public domain. The text is clear,because insofar as it applied to works already printed,it presupposes existing copyrights explicitly in thetext of the Act. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Read those words to me. MR. FALZONE: So, I'm looking at section of the Act, and at the beginning it talks about"after the passing of this act, the author and authorsof any map, chart, book or books already printed withinthese United States, being a citizen ... thereof, orresident within ... or his or hers executors, Officialadministrators or assigns, who hath or have nottransferred to any other person the copyright of suchmap, chart, book or books" -- JUSTICE SCALIA: Wait a minute. Who have orhave not transferred to any other person. So, you don'thave to have a copyright. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: You just -- JUSTICE SCALIA: Right? JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- well, you have tohave a -- MR. FALZONE: You do have to have acopyright. So, it says "author or authors" and "hath"is the singular, and "have" -- "have not" is the pluralfor that. JUSTICE SCALIA: Read it again. Who have -- MR. FALZONE: Sure. JUSTICE SCALIA: -- or have not transferredto any other person. MR. FALZONE: Right. The copyright of suchmap. It presupposes the existence of a copyright. JUSTICE SCALIA: Oh. Oh, the copyright. Igot you. MR. FALZONE: Yes. "The copyright" is thekey language. So, the text makes it clear theypresupposed existing copyrights. And let me speak to --Official JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I -- your reading ofthat passage is different than mine. I think it's a --it's saying if -- whether you have or you haven't. MR. FALZONE: But let me speak to the pointyou raised about common law protection for publishedworks. You said New York provided no common lawprotection for published works. With respect, that'snot correct. The Naxos v. Capitol Records case, highestcourt of New York, says New York common law providedprotection for published works right up to the pointwhere the Federal Act cut it off. And if you look -- and if -- if the questionis whether the first Congress intended to take anythingout of the public domain in , the answer is yousimply cannot reach that conclusion, because everythingcontemporaneous with the first Congress, the history ofthe common law in Britain, decided by Millar v. Taylorand Donaldson v. Beckett, recognized common law rightsin published works. The Federalist Papers spoke aboutMillar, and everything contemporaneous -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: If we disagree with yourproposition, does your argument fail? If the historicalwork does not point to what you claim? MR. FALZONE: You mean the Act or the after it?Official JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: In . If Congressdid what I believe it did -- MR. FALZONE: No, I -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- would your argumentfail. MR. FALZONE: No, not necessarily, because,of course, that was the first Copyright Act, andCongress established a baseline. It had to startsomewhere. What we see -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: It could have started inthe place you want Congress to have started now? MR. FALZONE: Well, no, but then -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: It said, moving forward,there's a Federal copyright. It didn't have to takethings out of the public domain. We're arguing aboutwhether they did or didn't. But assuming they did. MR. FALZONE: Oh, I will assume they did.They had to start somewhere. They wanted uniformity.They created a statute that provided it. When you look at every amendment, timesin years after that, Congress respected thepermanent consequence of the limits it chose, even whenthose limits were a work gets no time whatsoever, basedon formality and noncompliance, based upon national Officialeligibility, based upon expiration of years. It wasconsistent each time it added subject matter or extendedterms. JUSTICE KENNEDY: Can you tell me a littlebit about the phrase and the argument about the publicdomain? Is, in your view, that just a synonym for whenthe time has ended? Or is there something moresubstantive to it that -- is it your position that thepublic somehow owns what's in the public domain? I'm -- MR. FALZONE: Well -- so, to be precise, ourposition is once Congress calls the limit, that is, onceit says this work is unprotected, whether it's theexpiration of years or a decision to give it noprotection, it's creating affirmative rights in everymember of the public. Yes, they own it. And this Courthas recognized -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: But -- but how does thephrase -- so, the public domain is simply a conclusionto express that, the operation of that principle? Thepublic domain doesn't have any more substantive meaningother than to just express the conclusion that there's alimited time? MR. FALZONE: Well, it -- in this case, whenI refer to the public domain, it's the collection ofthings for which Congress had said protection is done, Officialit's over, we've hit the limit, it's done. So thingsthat went -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: Once again, it's just aconclusion for the argument. MR. FALZONE: I think that's the operativeconcept here. That's right. JUSTICE GINSBURG: I think you gave ananalogy to the statute of limitations, and I thought youwere quite right about that. You can extend the statuteof limitations before it's expired, but once it'sexpired, it's over. The problem with you using that as ananalogy is that there was a beginning. Time ran out,and you're trying to deal with a situation here whereyou say, you know, the time was limited for the U.S.work, but it's unlimited, that you -- you cannot treatthe foreign work -- you cannot give it a limited time,the same limited time that you would give a U.S. work.You're saying these people had no time, and they maynever get time. MR. FALZONE: They had no time becauseCongress decided that their works were going to beineligible, and a limit of zero is one Congress has beensetting since and respected consistently. If the Chief Justice gives me a limited time Officialfor oral argument, I might say no, thanks, I havenothing to say. JUSTICE GINSBURG: But it isn't -- it isn'tquite -- MR. FALZONE: And we all know I can't comeback tomorrow. JUSTICE GINSBURG: -- quite so because thereare these examples of the people who couldn't getcopyright because of wartime both after -- after bothWorld War I and World War II, and -- so, those peoplewere allowed to get the protection that they couldn'tget because of the war. MR. FALZONE: That's correct. That's whatthose statutes did. They were never challenged. Andmake no mistake, our position is, insofar as theyremoved anything from the public domain, they areunconstitutional. But even if the Court doesn't want to gothat far, I think the wartime statutes and the othersmall handful of exceptions the Government points to fitquite well into a very limited exception for eligibleauthors who show nothing more than the familiar conceptof excusable neglect, which has operated -- and, again,in very narrow situations -- to relieve people of theconsequences of deadlines. Official CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What about newcategories? You know, architecture. Congress decideswe're going to extend copyright protection toarchitectural design, and they say: And we're going togo back years. So, any new architectural designconceived or constructed, whatever, within the last years gets protection, and it goes on for another . MR. FALZONE: Right. So -- so -- of course,to be clear, that's not what Congress actually did whenit protected architectural works. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: No, no, I know. MR. FALZONE: It looked forward. Right. But that -- so, in that case, the -- theFederal scheme, if it had not previously regulatedarchitectural works, it had not -- there had been nodecision as to what the limit was going to be. And so,you may pose a different question. Here, we're talking about works that wereaffirmatively within the Federal scheme -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: No, no, I'm justtrying to -- I'm trying to test the limit of your publicdomain -- MR. FALZONE: Sure. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: -- argument. Doesit extend to new categories of copyrightable works? Official MR. FALZONE: I think the answer is theretrospective portion of that statute flunks progress ofscience but -- but passes limited times. JUSTICE SCALIA: Would you -- would youspend a little bit of time on your other argument? Itake it to be a separate argument apart from the, youknow, time limit argument, the argument that the problemhere is that this law does not promote the progress ofscience and useful arts and, therefore, does not complywith the Copyright Clause. Why doesn't it -- MR. FALZONE: That's right. JUSTICE SCALIA: Why doesn't it promote theprogress of science and the useful arts? MR. FALZONE: So, the -- the progress ofscience corresponds roughly to the creation and spreadof knowledge and learning. A statute that does nothing,like this one, does nothing but take old works out ofthe public domain without any impact on prospectiveincentives, cannot stimulate the creation of anything.And as for things that already exist, it cannotstimulate the spread of them. All it can do is restrictthe spread of things that could once circulate freely. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: You don't think thatthere are some foreign authors who didn't or wouldn'tcome into the U.S. market because they couldn't protect Officialtheir works here and kept their works in other marketsthat -- in which it was protected? MR. FALZONE: Well, I don't -- I don't -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: And it doesn't encouragethem to sort of make investments? MR. FALZONE: No. Not -- this statute doesnot and cannot do that, because it -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Why not? MR. FALZONE: Because it -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Foreign authors whodecided not to exploit their works here wouldn't beinduced to think about coming into this market becausenow they can protect their works? MR. FALZONE: Well, whether they came intothis market or not has no effect on whether they canprotect their works or not. They were unprotectedwhether they came into this market or not. They wouldbe protected -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: You're not answering myquestion. You don't think that this law induces thoseforeign authors to come here and promote their work? MR. FALZONE: I -- I don't see how it could. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, one way itcould, I suppose, is that it shows that Congress isinterested in making sure that American authors overseas Officialhave reciprocal protection, an issue that could come outin a variety of contexts. And if I'm sitting therewriting a great novel, I will have the confidence thatmy government will ensure that I get protection when itbecomes a bestseller in China. MR. FALZONE: Yes. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Right? Well, that's-- that's an incentive. MR. FALZONE: Yes. And you were assured ofthat incentive in , when we joined the BerneConvention without removing anything from the publicdomain, because when you sit down to write that booktoday, that work will absolutely be protected in all ofthe Berne and WTO countries. So, the incentive effectwas achieved and achieved in full in . CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: No, I'm talkingabout -- but the same issue can come up again, you know,whether it's in the area of formalities or whatever.There may be another problem where there's a disputebetween other countries and our country. And I willknow that, in the past, the United States has takenaction looking out for -- for the interests of Americanauthors. MR. FALZONE: That's -- that's -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: That's an incentive. OfficialNow, it may be, as I think it was described in a courtof appeals decision, a "meager" incentive. You may bemore interested in other protection. But it's -- wehaven't really required much more than that. MR. FALZONE: Perhaps. I mean, there'snothing in -- in the record before Congress here toreflect the fact they made any such conclusion. JUSTICE SCALIA: Let me put it -- I thinkit's the same point -- another way. Let's assume I'm amultibillionaire, and I receive an award as a greatpatron of the arts because I have furthered the arts bygiving several million dollars to someone who hasalready composed an opera or who has already written abook. Wouldn't -- wouldn't I be furthering, be viewedas furthering, the arts? MR. FALZONE: Potentially, but the problemhere, if I can move a little bit to the First Amendment,is the mechanism Congress chose to use here. They choseto create that reward by taking away core public speechrights from the American public and transforming theminto somebody's private property. JUSTICE SCALIA: But that's what thecopyright law permits, the -- excluding things from thepublic domain so long as, in the process of doing it,you're furthering the arts. Official MR. FALZONE: Well -- but let me focus onthe First Amendment problem. An ordinary copyrightstatute does not revoke the public's Federal right tocopy and use works in the public domain. That isexactly the thing Congress refused to do times over years. And that's the huge departure fromtraditional contours of copyright protection thattriggers First Amendment scrutiny here. And when you goto ask the First Amendment question, you can't ignorethe mechanism Congress chose to use here, which is totake away public speech rights and turn them intosomebody else's private property. That was the explicit motivation of thepeople who came before Congress and asked them to passthis statute. That is the justification theGovernment -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: But now you're saying thatthere is a substantive component to this public domainargument, that the public does own something. Andthat's different from what I thought you answeredearlier when you said it's just conclusory for a limitedtime. MR. FALZONE: In that case, I misspoke. Thepublic -- the public domain is owned collectively by thepublic. And, in fact, decisions of this Court going Officialback to the th century refer to it as public property.And I think that -- JUSTICE BREYER: I'm curious to go back asecond. I thought Justice Sotomayor's question was:Imagine Smith in Germany. He has written a book. It'sthere, already exists, but it has no copyrightprotection in the United States. So, after this, wouldhe be more willing to send it to the United States? AndI take it your answer is no. The reason is because Ican go and buy a copy and sell it in the United Stateseven without this law. Is that right or wrong? MR. FALZONE: I think -- I think that itcould possibly incentivize him to bring a work to theUnited States, depending on how the statute worked -- JUSTICE BREYER: Well, see, that's what ---- isn't that the question? The question is, now thatSmith has the same protection in the United States thatGermany gave him, doesn't that give him an incentive tosend his book to the U.S.? I'm thinking about that one.I thought: Not much, because I can go buy it todaywithout this law and bring it to the United States andsell as many as I want. But nonetheless -- MR. FALZONE: I think that's right. JUSTICE BREYER: What is -- that's notright? Official MR. FALZONE: No, I think -- I think you'recorrect. I think you're correct. I think that's -- JUSTICE BREYER: Well, don't just jump on myanswer as being correct if it's not. (Laughter.) JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Counsel -- JUSTICE BREYER: All right. Then theanswer -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: It might be hisincentive to buy it or not, but the question is theauthor's incentive to sell it here. Those are twodifferent incentives. Whether -- you know, he could goanywhere and buy a cheaper book if he chose to take thetrip or get on the Internet and find it. He could dothat now. Copyrighted materials here go at a differentprice than they do elsewhere. That's not the issue.The issue is the author's incentive. MR. FALZONE: The -- the problem here isthese authors are long gone. You can't incentivizethem. These works are so old they're long gone. Youcan't incentivize anything that's -- that's happened solong ago. So -- and if you could -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, if you can'tincentivize them, they're not going to claim theirrights. Official MR. FALZONE: I'm sorry. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: They're not going tocome and claim their rights. Part of this law is thatthey have to declare that they're interested inprotecting their copyright here. MR. FALZONE: No. Actually, that'soptional. It's optional for them to file a notice ofintent to enforce. It's optional for them to declare.But the real problem is -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Optional for them, butonce they do, that's when they can sue a prior user. MR. FALZONE: That's right. If -- well, itdepends who they want to sue, but yes. That -- theycertainly have broader rights once they file the noticeof intent to enforce. But the -- JUSTICE SCALIA: Of course, the assumptionof this -- of this line of questioning, I suppose, isthat the mere marketing in the United States of stuffthat has already been created promotes the progress ofthe useful arts. I'm not sure it promotes the progressof the useful arts. It makes more money for the guy whowrote it, but it doesn't incentivize anybody -- MR. FALZONE: That's right. JUSTICE SCALIA: -- to create art. MR. FALZONE: It's not going to incentivize Officialanybody to create anything, and it only restricts thecirculation of things that once circulated freely. If I can reserve my time for rebuttal, I'dlike to do that. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel. MR. FALZONE: Thank you. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: General Verrilli. ORAL ARGUMENT OF DONALD B. VERRILLI, JR., ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTS GENERAL VERRILLI: Mr. Chief Justice, andmay it please the Court: I'd like to begin by picking up on a pointthat my friend made in response to Justice Ginsburgsuggesting that with respect to foreign works whatCongress has done is set the copyright term at zero. Idon't really think that's a fair description of thesituation, and it obscures what Section actuallydoes and what Congress is all about here. Since , Congress has concluded as amatter of copyright law that foreign works are entitledto the same protection as domestic works. The problemwith respect to the authors that section covers isnot that Congress set the copyright limit at zero; isthat as a matter of foreign relations, we did not havetreaties with these individual countries. And what Officialdoes is remedy that problem. What says is, withrespect to a defined set of foreign authors, they getthe remainder of the copyright term that they wouldotherwise have gotten, and nothing more, had they livedin countries where we had -- with which we had copyrightrelations at the time they published, or had theycomplied with the formalities that we used to enforcebut no longer do to perfect and renew copyrights.That's what it does. It doesn't grant anybody a perpetual term.It does not renew a copyright term that has run its fullcourse and create a new one. It rectifies that problemwhich doesn't -- doesn't reflect anything about acongressional judgment setting the copyright term atzero for foreign works. JUSTICE ALITO: Could Congress grantcopyright protection to works that had lost thatprotection due to the expiration of the period that wasprovided for under then -- under previous law? GENERAL VERRILLI: We think that the --there isn't an ironclad limit that can be derived fromthe text of the Copyright Clause or from history thatwould say that Congress is forbidden in any circumstancefrom doing that. We do think that there are significantlimits in the text of the Copyright Clause that would Officialrestrict any ability Congress might have to do that.But one thing I think is important here is that section is not a statute in which Congress did that, andwe'd respectfully suggest that any assessment by thisCourt of whether Congress had that power should await aconcrete context in which Congress exercises it, if itever does. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: What is it that you're-- that you're referring to? GENERAL VERRILLI: Excuse me, JusticeSotomayor. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: You said there arelimits. GENERAL VERRILLI: Yes. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: What -- GENERAL VERRILLI: Well, one limit I thinkis a quite important one is that the Copyright Clausesays that you can only grant copyright in authors, toauthors. And as a work gets older and older when you'retalking about Shakespeare and Ben Johnson, there reallyat that point isn't an author in which you could vestthe copyright. And creating any copyright for along-expired work like that would really, I think, raisethe problem that the Framers were addressing byrestricting copyright to authors, which -- which was to Officialavoid the creation of patronage monopolies in whichpublishers who weren't the authors could claim theexclusive rights of copyright. JUSTICE ALITO: But doesn't this -- doesn'tsection provide copyright protection for works thatwere created by people who are long since dead? GENERAL VERRILLI: Yes, it does. JUSTICE ALITO: So, I don't understand thelimit that you were just suggesting. GENERAL VERRILLI: Well, because they -- JUSTICE ALITO: Do they have to be dead forsome period of time before -- GENERAL VERRILLI: No, but -- JUSTICE ALITO: -- Congress is unable togive them back their copyright? GENERAL VERRILLI: What does, JusticeAlito, is provide copyright protection to works offoreign authors whose works still have copyrightprotection in their own country, whether they're dead oralive. So long as the work has protection in thecountry, then provides copyright protection. And the reason it does so is to ensure ourcompliance with the Berne Convention. And so, the whyhere is very important and, I think, provides the answerto Justice Scalia's question about how contributes Officialto the progress of arts and sciences. What does -- is, in essence, the price of admission to theinternational system. We decided, the policymakingbranches of our government, the executive and theCongress, decided that we needed to be -- and it was inthe national interest -- to be part of the internationalcopyright system and to join the Berne Convention toaccomplish that. The reason we did so was because ourintellectual property is subject to very serious levelsof piracy in many foreign countries because ofunder-enforcement. By joining Berne, what we did was commitourselves to the international standards. And byenacting Section to implement the Uruguay RoundAgreements in , what we did was say to the worldthat we are going to ensure compliance in this country. JUSTICE SCALIA: General Verrilli, I do notfind that an appealing argument. It seems to meCongress either had the power to do this under theCopyright Clause or it didn't. I don't think thatpowers that Congress does not have under theConstitution can be acquired by simply obtaining theagreement of the Senate, the President, and Zimbabwe. (Laughter.) JUSTICE SCALIA: I do not think a treaty can Officialexpand the powers of the Federal Government. I mean,this is either okay under the copyright clause or itisn't. Now -- GENERAL VERRILLI: We completely -- JUSTICE SCALIA: -- it would be nice to knowthe reason for it, but you would still have to establishthat it's within the power of the Federal Government -- GENERAL VERRILLI: We completely agreementwith that, Justice Scalia. JUSTICE SCALIA: Okay. GENERAL VERRILLI: There's no textual limitin the Copyright Clause that would preclude Congressfrom enacting this statute. The Petitioners have also raised the FirstAmendment argument. We don't think First Amendmentscrutiny applies here. To the extent it did, the whywould matter there, and there's definitely a substantialinterest on the part of Congress in -- in ensuringcompliance with Berne and getting protection for ourworks in Berne. Now, in Eldred, the Court did say, I thinkquite clearly, that there is no requirement under theCopyright Clause that a new financial benefit granted toan existing -- that a new financial benefit cannot begranted to an existing work -- Official JUSTICE BREYER: No, but it was -- in Eldredthe main difference is that in Eldred, there was a lawthat might, at least in principle, have elicited a newbook. And in this case, by definition, there is nobenefit given to anything at all that is not alreadycreated. GENERAL VERRILLI: I disagree. JUSTICE BREYER: By -- how? How does itgive any benefit to anything that isn't already created? GENERAL VERRILLI: Because it createsadditional incentives for authors today and goingforward, because they know that there's a much greaterlikelihood that whatever intellectual property theycreate will be better protected in foreign countries asa result of our joining the Berne Convention. JUSTICE BREYER: How does this provision dothat? I think maybe there are other provisions, but Ithought this provision is talking solely about books,for example, that are already created. GENERAL VERRILLI: Well, but -- JUSTICE BREYER: Is it not? I may have beenmisreading, it but I certainly got that out of, like, briefs and -- (Laughter.) GENERAL VERRILLI: But we can't -- we can't Officialget the protections of Berne -- Berne is not a menu -- JUSTICE BREYER: Oh, oh. You say -- GENERAL VERRILLI: -- in which we get tochoose options. JUSTICE BREYER: Well then, you know, as youalso know from the briefs, that there's a lot ofargument that you could comply in other ways that areless restrictive. And whether that's true or not, isthat -- there what you're saying is -- if I parody it,it's not a fair reading I'm going to give -- but whatyou're saying is we are -- here have a law which saysthat libraries, music lovers, book buyers will eitherpay more money for things already in existence or willsimply be unable to get them if they're orphans, on theone hand, so that other countries will impose similarkinds of restrictions upon their music lovers, musicgoers, libraries and -- so that they pay more for ourworks that are already in -- that are already produced,or simply can't use them because they can't find whoowns them. Now, that's in parody form, forsuccinctness, what I think the argument is on the otherside -- GENERAL VERRILLI: Right, but -- JUSTICE BREYER: -- and they'll say no Officialcopyright law -- with your exception of when the countrywas founded -- no copyright law has served that kind ofpurpose. That's served often by tariffs -- GENERAL VERRILLI: But -- JUSTICE BREYER: -- but not by copyrightlaw. GENERAL VERRILLI: But there's another wayof looking at that, Justice Breyer, of course, which isthat the -- but for the fact that these individualauthors lived in countries that didn't have copyrightrelations with the United States, they would have theprotection of our copyright law, and they would have theterm of copyright -- JUSTICE BREYER: Not necessarily. There arethree categories. One is the category of the people whoyou couldn't, because of the country; that's Egypt, Ithink, and Russia. The second is the category of thepeople -- of sound recordings, and their third is thecategory, which is not the null set, of people who didnot comply with certain registration requirements. Forexample, I believe that the widow of Samuel Brittanfailed to renew her copyright. And there are probablymany that failed to renew the copyright after years,and the reason that they didn't is because they didn'tthink there was much money in it. And those are the Officialvery works that the libraries want to get ahold of andput in their databases. GENERAL VERRILLI: And there is no textuallimit in the Copyright Clause that says that Congresscannot provide the same limited term to those categoriesof works that it provides to other works. There just isno textual limit. JUSTICE BREYER: That's true but for onetext. They say that text has to do with progress. Andwhen they read it historically in light of Macaulay, inlight of the Statute of Anne, in light of going back toVenice and the copyrights, in light of going back toletters between Madison and Jefferson -- that term hasalways meant produce at least one new thing. And herethere is not one new thing. GENERAL VERRILLI: And -- yes. JUSTICE BREYER: All right. GENERAL VERRILLI: Yes, there is. First,with respect to section , it's part and parcel ofjoining Berne, and Berne gives protection not only tothe previously created works but to newly created works,and it creates additional economic incentives inforeign -- by assuring better protection in foreigncountries for newly created works. So, it creates many,many more than one new work. Official And I think it's also quite reasonable,Justice Breyer, to read the incentive structure here ina way parallel to the way the Court did in Eldred, whichis to say that, just as in Eldred the Court assumed thatthere was an implicit guarantee to an author making acreation that that author would get the benefit not onlyof the existing term of copyright but any extension, Ithink here, with respect to American authors, it's animplicit guarantee that they get the benefit not only ofthe foreign protection in existence at the time but anyexpansion of foreign protection through adjoiningtreaties, and article -- and section implementingarticle of Berne is the price of admission to thattreaty -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: General, there issomething at least at an intuitive level appealing aboutMr. Falzone's First Amendment argument. One day I canperform Shostakovich; Congress does something, the nextday I can't. Doesn't that present a serious FirstAmendment problem? GENERAL VERRILLI: I don't think so, Mr.Chief Justice, and I do think -- for a host of reasons.One is I think that it's -- it's just not so simple, andI think the question that I think Your Honor asked myfriend was what about when Congress expands the scope of Officialexclusive rights for existing works? Well, Congress hasdone that many, many times, and musical composition is areally good example of that. In , Congress createdexclusive right in the publishing and vending of musicalcompositions, but not in their public performance. So,from on, once I bought the sheet music, the publicperformance was, to borrow the Petitioners' way ofthinking, in the public domain. You could do it anytime you wanted without having to get -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: All right. Well,that's -- GENERAL VERRILLI: -- a license to pay anymoney. But -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: That's -- one answeris that Congress has done this before. GENERAL VERRILLI: But then, in ,Congress granted an exclusive right in the publicperformance of musical compositions -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Right. GENERAL VERRILLI: -- and made it applicableto all existing copyrights. And so -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Okay. Well, do youhave an argument other than that they've -- they've donethis before? GENERAL VERRILLI: Well, that they've done Officialit many times before, and it's a process -- I think itreflects -- and -- and the point is that no one hasthought with respect to any of those significantadjustments of the boundaries, that it was an occasionfor First Amendment scrutiny. And I think that'sbecause of the wisdom of the Court's opinion in Eldred,that these are -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But we have -- butit's pertinent under the First Amendment in other areas,right? It's a different analysis if your claim is thegovernment should open up a park as a public forum, thanif it's been a public forum for years and thegovernment decides to close it down. Maybe they can doit, but it's a different question. So, why isn't this a different question,from whether they can extend copyright protection that'salready there? GENERAL VERRILLI: I think -- because Ithink there is -- once the Court gets into the businessof First Amendment analysis, there's no stopping point,because all of the adjustments of the boundaries couldhave the same kind of effect, I think, as the musicalcomposition example shows. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, what about --what about Jimi Hendrix, right? He has a distinctive Officialrendition of the national anthem, and all of a --assuming the national anthem is suddenly entitled tocopyright protection that it wasn't before, he can't dothat, right? GENERAL VERRILLI: What copyright does, bydefinition, is provide exclusive rights in expression;and so, if the First Amendment is triggered whenevercopyright provides exclusive rights in expression thatit didn't used to provide, then heightened scrutiny willapply any time Congress exercises its copyright power.And what the Court said in Eldred -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So, he's just out ofluck? And that's just one example of many, where youtake existing works and you have a derivative work orsomething that is distinctive to you. So, those peopleare just out of luck? GENERAL VERRILLI: Well, of course, undersection , they're not out of luck because it hassignificant protections and accommodations forderivative works. The question of whether there shouldbe heightened First Amendment scrutiny, we think, Eldredanswers, that -- that the First -- the Copyright Clausealready contains very significant accommodations ofFirst Amendment interests, the idea/expressiondichotomy, fair use. And -- and that is going to Officialprovide -- maybe -- maybe Jimi Hendrix could claim fairuse in that situation. And those are at the core of the traditionalcontours of copyright. So, if Congress were to try toextinguish fair use, I'd say yes, we'd have a FirstAmendment issue there. If Congress were to try toprovide exclusive right in the ideas that are expressed,as opposed to the expression itself, yes, we'd have aFirst Amendment issue there. If Congress were to, say,use the copyright power to engage in viewpointdiscrimination -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, it seems to me whatyou're saying, and I'm glad you gave this answer becauseoriginally I thought I was going to put in my notes theFirst Amendment doesn't apply to the copyright area --and that just can't be. What you're saying is, is that this law willpass intermediate scrutiny. It's an importantgovernmental interest, and it's substantially related tothat. GENERAL VERRILLI: We don't think it wouldhave any problem passing intermediate scrutiny, but wedon't think -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: But -- but -- GENERAL VERRILLI: -- intermediate scrutiny ought to apply, Justice Kennedy.Official JUSTICE KENNEDY: But can you -- can youcite me to some -- some authority which says the FirstAmendment doesn't apply to a copyright -- GENERAL VERRILLI: No. We don't say itdoesn't apply, but Eldred -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: The First Amendment testdoesn't apply. There has -- there has to be a -- atest. Now, maybe -- say it isn't immediate scrutiny butsomething else. But -- but certainly the FirstAmendment is implicated. GENERAL VERRILLI: Yes. And what Eldredsaid, as I read it, Justice Kennedy, is that unlessCongress alters their traditional contours of copyright,then rational basis scrutiny, rather than any heightenedform of First Amendment scrutiny, applies. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Even under -- evenunder rational basis scrutiny, it seems to me that yourun into Justice Breyer's concern that the governmentinterest is vanishingly small when it comes to promotingprogress under the Copyright Clause, so that theinterest weighed on the other side of the -- therestriction of free speech rights -- it's hard to saythat that's necessarily going to tip the balance inevery case. Official GENERAL VERRILLI: I think it is going totip the balance, Mr. Chief Justice, because the -- I --the reason Congress enacted section , at the urgingof executive branch officials who were charged withtrying to ensure that we could integrate ourselves intothe international system of copyright protection, wasthat if we didn't have this provision, then we were notgoing to be taken seriously; our works were not going tobe protected in these foreign countries; and that itwould defeat the purpose of joining Berne in the firstplace. JUSTICE BREYER: It couldn't have been.That must be somewhat overstated, mustn't it? Becausethe only concern is not about protecting new works inthe foreign countries. The concern, as I understand it,was that we've had things in copyright for many years,and we want retroactive protection there. The countriesthat didn't give it, like Japan, were not kicked out ofthe Berne Convention. Rather, we pursued them in the WTO for manyyears, and I guess somebody might pursue us. And thenyou get into an argument about whether there are otherways. Now, is that strong enough to overcome what thesebriefs are full of? I'll give you an example. Save The Music is Officialcharged with looking for Jewish music in the periods's, 's, and 's. Other organizations might find atreasure trove of literature that was -- that wascopyrighted in Czechoslovakia or in Warsaw, and theywant to put it on the Web, and they want people tolisten to it. But they have no more idea of how totrack down the person on that, and they aren't protectedby any notice requirements because they aren't relianceparties. We're told by Barbara Ringer, formerregistrar, that there are millions of such instanceswhere people would like to go back and would like to putmusic, literature, film, et cetera, in a form thatpeople can use it today, and there's no way to do itwithout their becoming scofflaws or without their havingmillions of dollars to hire infinite numbers of trackersand lawyers. Now, that's the argument that's made onthe other side, as the interest in communication that'simportant. What do you say? GENERAL VERRILLI: So, two points: First,with respect to the interest in what foreign countrieswill do, I think it's incorrect to assume that this willbe tit-for-tat, that if we don't enforce article , theonly thing other countries won't do is enforce article Official with respect to our works, as opposed to believingthat we're not an -- an effective partner and notenforcing their copyright laws for the whole corpus ofour works. Second, Justice Breyer, that problem thatyou identified just exists as a feature of copyrightlaw. Copyright law exists for a certain time. Withrespect to those works, it's going to create that issue.The problem here is just the result of a fortuity thatthose works might have been published in a country thatat the time they were published didn't have copyrightrelations with the United States. And what section does is address that fortuity by putting those authorsin the same position they would have been in had theircountry had copyright relations with the United States.And so, I don't think that's a principled objection on aconstitutional basis to section -- JUSTICE BREYER: Well, here we have ASCAP.We have ASCAP. I agree with you that it is a generalproblem. It may be diminished in the United States, butit still exists. And I guess the argument here is,well, don't make it millions of times worse. GENERAL VERRILLI: Well, it doesn't make itmillions of times worse. It applies to a small numberof -- but a significant number of countries -- Official JUSTICE BREYER: Well, what do you --Barbara Ringer said a million. She numbers it in themillions. Do you want to say, too? GENERAL VERRILLI: No, we don't -- we don'thave any reason to doubt the -- the aggregate number. JUSTICE GINSBURG: That's presupposing thatthey're all going to give notice. GENERAL VERRILLI: Well, with respect toreliance parties, that's certainly true. They wouldhave to give notice. It is the case, Justice Ginsburg,that if you're not a reliance party, then there would bean infringement even without notice. So, I do thinkthere's something to that point. But, again, I justthink that's a result of the fortuity of the countriesnot having copyright relations with the United States.It's not about the -- it's not anything integral as amatter of constitutional principle of the statute,and -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- library, the day thislaw was passed, had to go and pick out all the books ithad that were subject to copyright and throw them out,or do what with them? GENERAL VERRILLI: I -- I don't think it hadto -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Stop them from circulation?Official GENERAL VERRILLI: I don't think it had totake -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I'm not sure. How didthey protect themselves from infringement? GENERAL VERRILLI: Yes. I don't think thatthey had -- I don't think there is an act ofinfringement by having a library book on the shelf, and,of course, there are protections for libraries builtinto the Copyright Act in all events. And I do -- if I could in my remaining time,I want to go back to the history that we started with,because I do think it is important that there is no --as a matter of text, I think it's clear -- there is nounyielding requirement that you cannot restore copyrightto works in the public domain. I think the historyreally does bear that out. I think Justice Sotomayor had the historyexactly right, that in , you had three States withno copyright statutes. Of the States with copyrightstatutes, you had that did not provide copyright tomaps and charts, which the Federal statute did. And Ithink this is the key point: Of the States that didenact copyright statutes to -- in the s, in advanceof the Federal Act, at least four, and depending on Officialhow you counted, as many as eight provided copyrightprotection only to works printed after the date of theState statute. They did that at the urging of theContinental Congress in . So, I don't think there's any doubt thatwhen Congress enacted the Copyright Act in , it madea conscious choice to take a different approach, togrant copyright protection to existing works, includingmany, many, many works that were freely available forexploitation in those States -- JUSTICE ALITO: Doesn't that show at mostthat retroactive protection can be granted when there isan enormous interest in doing so, namely, theestablishment of a uniform copyright system at thebeginning of the country? Because if Congress had notdone that and had said -- the alternative would be tosay things can be copyrighted going forward, then youwould have different copyright laws in all of theStates. GENERAL VERRILLI: I think -- I don't thinkso, Justice Alito. I think they could have followed themodel nationally of prospective copyright only andextinguishing the prior copyright -- JUSTICE ALITO: Right. GENERAL VERRILLI: -- and -- but they didn't Officialmake that choice. They made a different choice. Now,my friend suggests that the Act was just atransition. But, of course, the same thing is reallytrue in an important sense of section . It's part ofa tradition -- of a transition of the United States intothe international system, which has required anadjustment of our rules in order to bring us intoconformity with the international system. And beyond the example, of course, of the -- and by the way, with respect to that language inthe copyright -- who hath or hath not havecopyright -- that's just a rerun of an argument that theCourt rejected in Wheaton v. Peters. In Wheaton, theCourt said that that language in the Act wasreferring to pre-publication common law copyright, notpost-publication common law copyright. Beyond that, it seems to me pretty clearthat what that language was referring to -- of course,Congress presupposed the existence of copyrights. Therewere all these State statutes that created somecopyrights. But what Congress did was act far morebroadly. And -- so, I do think -- and then when onelooks at the examples of patents -- and I think theOliver Evans example and that case is an important Officialexample. Early in our history, Congress creates a newpatent term to an expired patent. President Jeffersonsigns it. Secretary of State Madison issues it. ChiefJustice Marshall upholds it as a circuit justice, andthe Court upholds it against a charge that it'simpermissibly burdening people who act in reliance onthe expiration of the prior patent. There wasn't a word in this Court's decisionin that case about any potential constitutionalinfirmity with doing that. And one would think if thiswas such a significant and viable principle ofconstitutional law, that someone would have brought itup in those cases. In fact, the striking thing aboutreading the Evans decision is that the Court clearlylooks at this all as a matter of legislative policyjudgment. It says, you know, yes, you're right, itmight have been an argument, a good argument in favor ofcreating some reliance interest here, but that's ajudgment Congress should have made if anybody was goingto make it. It didn't -- and there is no reading of the-- there's no required reading of that statute that hasto protect the reliance party. So, I don't -- I just think when you look atthe patent protection, when you look at the Act,when you consider the fact that when Congress expands Officialexclusive rights, as it did for example with respect tomusical compositions but did in the Act withrespect to lots of exclusive rights, it does so withexisting copyrights. And all of that points up the wisdom of whatthis court said in Eldred, that within very widemargins, these are matters for legislative choice.These are policy calls that require the balancing of acomplex set of interests, the drawing of a complex setof lines made even more complex by virtue of the factthat we are now trying to make a transition into fullparticipation in an international system, which is ofvital importance to protecting one of our most valuableeconomic exports, intellectual property. Thank you. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, General. Mr. Falzone, you have minutes remaining. REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF ANTHONY T. FALZONE ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS MR. FALZONE: Thank you. I have -- I havefour points to make: First one, refusing to provide anyprotection for a work is setting the term at zero. Thepoint of the limited times restriction is it -- excuseme -- it forces Congress to tell us when the end hascome. And if Congress is forever free to change its Officialmind, then we can never know if the end has come. Point number two, this statute does not andcannot promote progress, that is, the creation andspread of knowledge and learning. When we joined Bernein , we got all of its prospective benefits or, asthe Government put it, secured the highest availablelevel of multilateral copyright protection for U.S.artists, authors, and their creators. This statute isnot about that. It's simply about rewarding people whomade things long ago. It's -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: At the time we joinedBerne, there was an appreciation that we deferred thearticle issue. There wasn't any -- anyone who saidthat we satisfied it. MR. FALZONE: No. There was an expressfinding -- explicit finding written into the statute,that -- and Congress found explicitly that we couldcomply with all Berne obligations without removinganything from the public domain. Now, third point -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: Well, there were manypeople who read article in a different way, andCongress was later persuaded that that was right. MR. FALZONE: Congress never revisited thatfinding. So, no, they found what they found in , and they never revisited it.Official JUSTICE GINSBURG: They -- they found thatcompliance with article was appropriate for us tobecome a full member of the international copyrightcommunity. MR. FALZONE: Congress did not make thatfinding, and I don't think you can even glean that fromthe testimony that was presented to Congress. Theproblem here is the -- the right to use works in thepublic domain has defined the freedom of speech that thepublic has known since . The Act made thesefreedoms clear by placing works unambiguously andclearly in the public domain, including all foreignworks. So, even since before we had a First Amendment,that has defined the freedom of speech that the publicknew. And that right has also made sure that thecopyright sequence provides ever-increasing protectionfor public speech rights. It gives partial protectionfor some public speech interests during any initialperiod of protection, but that blossoms into completeprotection for all public speech interests, once wereach the limit Congress picks, once they place the workin the public domain. The burden on speech that this statute Officialimposes is remarkable. Let's start with the performanceright, which is central to my clients. There can't beany doubt, as I think Chief Justice Roberts got at, thatthe performance has a huge amount of original expressionbound up in it. It's the reason it's different to seeKing Lear at the Royal Shakespeare Company; it's thereason it's different when John Coltrane plays a jazzstandard. Huge amount of expression. But even if you put performances aside, thisCourt has recognized in case after case that there is acritical speech interest in publishing the work ofanother author, in showing a film created by another, orfor that matter, performing the work of another. So,the -- the burden here is it took speech rights of million Americans and turned them into the privateproperty of foreign authors, all on the bare possibilitythat might put more money in the pocket of some U.S.authors. JUSTICE GINSBURG: All this rides onaccepting your argument that zero is a limited time. MR. FALZONE: No. Not on the FirstAmendment side. Not at all. No, no, no. No. That is -- the First Amendment argumentis completely independent of that. Even if you findCongress could do this on the Copyright Clause, we still Officialhave that First Amendment problem, and the -- there isno way the Government can pass intermediate scrutinyhere. This was not required by Berne. TheGovernment does not even contend Section wasrequired by Berne, nor could it, because that wouldviolate Congress's explicit findings they made in . JUSTICE GINSBURG: Would you say it waswould required by TRIPS? MR. FALZONE: No. Because TRIPS justimplements Berne. So that the problem here is thisstatute was not passed -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: Is it not so that if wedon't comply with Berne , then we are subject to beingsanctioned by some World Trade Organization -- MR. FALZONE: There was very vague testimonyabout the unsupported possibility that could happen, andthat's why the Government falls back on this interest ofavoiding a dispute. Here is the problem: If the government canget around First Amendment limits by signing a treaty,and then the flexibility to take away public speechrights is defined by some complaint proffered by sometreaty partner, then the First Amendment is defined onlyby the perceptions, the complaints, and, frankly, the Officialimagination of foreign countries. That can't be the wayit works. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel. Counsel. The case is submitted. (Whereupon, at : p.m., the case in theabove-entitled matter was submitted.) OfficialOfficialPage AAaron: : :ability :above-entitled:::absolutely :accepting :accident :accommodations:,accomplish:accurate :achieved:,acquired:act : :,,: :,: :,,: :,,:, : :action:add :added:additional ::address :addressing :adjoining :adjustment :adjustments :,administrators :admission::advance :affirmative :affirmatively :aggregate :ago : :agree :agreement ::Agreements :ahold :AL :,Alito : :,:,, ::,alive :allowed:alternative :alters :amendment :: : :,: :,:, :,,:,, :,: :,,,: :,:,,amendments :American:: : ::Americans ::amount :,analogy :,analysis :,Anne : :answer: :: : ::, : ::answered:answering :answers :anthem:,ANTHONY::, : :anybody : :: :apart :appealing :appeals :APPEARANCES::applied:applies : ::apply : ::,,,appreciation:approach:appropriate :architectural :,:,architecture :area : :areas :arguing :argument : :,: :, :: : :: : ::,,, :: : ::, :: : :: : :: : ::array :art :article :,:, :,:artists :arts :, ::,, :: :ASCAP :,aside :asked: :assessment :assigns :assume : ::assumed:assuming :applicable ::assumption:assured:assuring :attach:ATTORNEY:author: : :: : :: :, :authority :authors : :,:, : :: : :: :,,: : :: :,,:, :: : :: :,author's :,available : :avoid :avoiding :await :award :a.m: :BB : : :back : : ::, :,,: : :,: :,: : :balance : :balancing :Barbara : :bare :based: :,:baseline :basis :,:bear :Beckett :becoming :beginning :,: : ::behalf :, :,: : ::believe : :believing :Ben: :benefit : :: :, ::benefits :Berne :,: :,:, ::, :,: :,:,, :,:,bestseller:better: ::beyond : :,big :bit : : :blossoms :body :book : :: : :: : :: :books : :: :borrow:bought :bound :boundaries :,branch:branches :Breyer:,,:, :,,: :,, OfficialPage :,, :,: : :,:Breyer's :brief:briefs : :::bring : :,Britain :Brittan:broader:broadly :brought :built :burden: :burdening :business :buy :, ::buyers :CC : :California :calls : :Capitol :care :case :, :: : :: : :: : :: : :: :,cases :categories :,: :category : ::,central :century :certain : :certainly : :: : ::cetera :challenged:change :charge :charged: :chart : :charts :cheaper:Chief:, :,: :,,: : ::, :,,:, :,:, :,: : :: : ::China :choice : : :: :choose :chose : :: : :circuit :circulate :circulated:circulation: :circumstance :cite :citizen:claim: :: : ::clarify :clause :, :: : ::, :: :,,: : ::clear : :,: : :: :clearly : ::clients :close :collection:collectively :Coltrane :come : : :: :, :: :comes :coming :commit :common: :: : :,:,, ::communicationcommunity :::Company :complaint :complaints :complete :completely :,:complex:,,compliance :: : ::complied:comply : :: : ::component :composed:composition::compositions :: :conceived:concentrate :concentrating :concept : :concern : :: :constitutional ::concluded:conclusion::, : :conclusory :concrete :confidence :conformity :Congress :,: :,,,:,, :,,,:,,, :,: : :,: :,: :,:,,, :: :,:, : :: :,,:,,,:, :,,: : :,: :,: :, ::,, ::,, :: :,,:, :,: :,:,, :,: :congressional :Congress's ::conscious :consequence :: :consequences :consider:consistent : :consistently :Constitution:: :,constrains :constructed:contained:contains :contemporaneous:,contend :context :contexts :Continental :contours : ::contributes :Convention:: : ::Copeland :,: : :copy : :copyright :,:,, ::,, : :: :, ::, :,:,, :,,:,,,:, : :: : :,: : :,: :,,,:,, ::,,,:,,,,: :, ::, :,,:,,,,: : ::,,,,:,, :,: :, ::,,, : OfficialPage : :,,:,, :,:,,,,:,,,: :, :copyrightable :copyrighted:: : :copyrights : :: : :: : ::, :core : :corpus :correct : :: :,,corresponds :counsel : :: :,Counselor:counted:countries :,: : :: : :: :,,:, :: :country : :: : :: :,:course : :: : :: : :,:court :, :,: : :: : :: : :,: : :: :, ::Court's : :covers :create : :: : ::created: :: :,,:,, :: :creates : :: :creating :: :creation:,: : :creators :critical :crystal :curious :cut :Czechoslovakia:DD :databases :date :,, ::,,, ::, :dates : :day : : :: :De :, :,:dead :,,deadlines :deal : :dealing :decades :decide :decided: :: : :,decides : :decision :, ::, :: : :,decisions :declare :,defeat :deferred:defined: :: :,definitely :definition: :deny :,Department :departure :depending ::depends :derivative :,derived:described:description::design :,dichotomy :difference : :different : :: : :: :,:,, :: : ::,differently :diminished:disagree : :discretion:discriminationdispute : :distinctive :::distinctly :doing : : :: : :dollars : :domain : :,:, :: :,,,effect : :::: : :: : ::,, :: : ::,domestic :DONALD : ::Donaldson:doubt : : :drawing :due :duration:D.C :,EE : :,earlier: :Early :economic :effective :Egypt :eight :either: ::Eldred: ::, ::, :, ::, :,:elicited:eligibility : :eligible :else's :enact :enacted: :enacting ::encourage :ended:ends :enforce :,: :,enforcing :engage :enjoyed:enormous :ensure : :: :ensuring :entitled: ::equal :equivalent :ERIC :ESQ :, :,,essence :establish:established:establishment :et :, :Evans : :events :ever-increasing:exactly : :: :example : :: : :: : :: : :examples :exception :exceptions ::::excluding :exclusive :,,: :,,:, : :,excusable :excuse : :executive : :executors : exercises ::exist :existence :: : :existing :,,: : :: : :,: : :exists : :,:expand :expands ::expansion :experience :expiration:,: : :,: :expired: :: :, :expires : :explicit : :explicitly :::exploit : :exploitation:exports :express :,:expressed:expression :,: :,extend : : ::, : :: :extended: ::extension :extent :extinguish:extinguishing :Ffact : : :: : :: :fail : :failed:,fair: :: :,falls :Falzone : :,:,, :, ::, : ::, :,,:, :,,: :,,:, :,:, :,:,,, :: :, :: :,,:,, :,:,, :,: :, :: :,:, :,,:, ::,, :: : ::,Falzone's :familiar:far: :favor:feature : :Federal : ::, : :: :,Federalist :file :,film: :finality :,financial :,find : :: : ::findings :first:, :,:, :,: : :,: :,: :,:,, :,:, :,,:,,, :: : ::, :,:fit :flexibility :flunks :focus :followed:forbidden:forces : :foreign: :,: : :: :,:,, :: : :: :,:, :,: : ::forever:form : ::formalities :: :formality :former:Forties :fortuity :,:forum :,forward : :: :found :,,OfficialPage finding :,,:founded:four : :Framers : ::frankly :free : ::freedom:,freedoms :freely : :friend : :::full : :: : :furthered:furthering :,:GG :general :, :: : ::, :,:, ::,, :,:, :,:, :,,:, :,:, ::, :,:, : ::, :,,:, :,:Germany :,getting :Ginsburg : ::,, :,:, :,,:,, :: :, ::, :,: : :,give : : :: : ::, :: : ::, :,given: :,gives : :::giving : : :: :glad:glean :go : : :: : :,: :,: : :goers :goes :going : :,: :,,: : :: : :: :,: : ::,, : :: :Golan: :good : : :gotten:government :: : :: : :,:, :: :,,,governmental :Government's :: :,,grant : :,: :granted:,: :great : : greater:guarantee :,guess : :guy :HH :hand :handful :happen:happened::hard :hath:, :hear : :heightened:,::held :Hendrix : :highest : :hire :historical ::historically :history : :: :,,:hit : :Holder: :Honor:host :huge : :,hundred: :: :hypothetical :,Iidea :ideas :idea/expression:identified:ignore : :OfficialPage II :imagination:Imagine :immediate :impact :impermissibly :implement :implementing :implements :implicated:implicit :,importance :important :,: : :: :,impose :imposes :incentive :,,: : ::,, :incentives :: : :incentivize ::,, ::including : :incorrect :independent :individual ::induced:induces :ineligible : :infinite :infirmity :infringement ::,initial :insofar: :instance :instances :integral :integrate :intellectual :: :intended:intent :,interest : :: :,:, :: : :interested:: :interests :: : ::intermediate ::, :international :,: : :,: :Internet:interpretation:intuitive :investments :ironclad:issue :, :: :, ::issues :JJapan:jazz :Jefferson ::Jewish:Jimi : :John :Johnson: :join :joined: :,joining : :: :JR :, :judgment ::,jump:justice : :,,: :,, :: :, ::, :,,: :,,,:,,,,: :,,,:,, :: :,,,:, :,,:, :,,: :,,:,,,,:,, :,: :,,,:,,,, ::,, :,:, ::,,, ::,,,,:, :,,:,,, ::, :,,:, :,,:,,,:, ::, :,,:,, :: :, ::,,, :: :,,:, : :: : :,:, :justification:KKennedy : :: :, :: :,:,,,kept :key : :kicked:kind : :kinds :King :knew: ::know: : ::, : ::, : :: : :: :, ::knowledge ::known :Llack :language : :: :,,large :Laughter: ::law: :,:, :,,:, :: : :: : :: : ::,,, ::, : :: :LAWRENCE :laws : :lawyers :Lear :learning : :legislative ::letters :let's : : :: : ::level : :levels : libraries :,: :library : :license :light :,,,likelihood:limit : :, ::,,, :: : :,:,, :,: : :,:, :: : :: : :,:limitations :,limited:,, :: :,,:, :, :: :,,: : :: : ::limited-time :limits :,: : :line :lines :listen:literature :,little : : :lived: :long : : ::,, :: :longer: :long-expired:look : ::,looked:looking : :: :looks : :lost :lot :lots :lovers :,luck :,,MMacaulay :Madison : :main :making : :map: :,maps :margins :mark :market: ::,marketing :markets :marking :Marshall :materials :matter: : ::, :: : :: :matters :meager:mean: ::meaning : :means :,,meant :mechanism:: : :member: :menu :mere :Millar:,million: ::millions : :: :,:mind :Officialmine :minute :minutes :misreading :misspoke :mistake :model:money: :: : :monopolies :motivation:move : :moving :multibillionaire:multilateral :music :,,: : :,musical :,,: :mustn't :NN :, :narrow:national : :: :,nationally :Naxos :necessarily :: :need: :needed:needs :neglect :never: : ::,, ::, : :: :, :new: :,,:,, ::, ::,, ::newly :,nice :nominal :noncompliance:notes :notice :, ::,,novel :null :number:,: :numbers : :OO : :objection:obligations :obscures :obtaining :occasion :October: :,:officials :oh : :,: :,okay : :,:old : :older:,Oliver:once : :: :, :: : :: : :: :,ones :open:opera :operated:operates :operation:operative : :opinion:Page opportunity :,opposed: :optional :,,,options :oral : :, :: :order:ordinary :Organization:organizations :original :originally :orphans :ought :overcome :overseas :overstated:owned:owns : :PP :PAGE :Papers :parallel:parcel:park :parody :,part : : :: : :partial :participation:particularly :parties : :partner: :party : :pass : :: :passage :passed: ::passes :passing : :patent :,,, patents :patron:patronage :pay :, :people : :: :,,: : ::, ::,, ::,perceptions :perfect :perform :performance :,: :,performances :performing :period: :: :periods :permanent :,:permissive :permits :perpetual :person :, :,: :persuaded:pertinent :Peters :Petitioners :,:, : :: :phrase :,pick : : :: :picked:picking : :picks :piracy :place : : :: :placed:placing :plays :please : ::plural :pocket :point :,,: : ::, :: : ::points : :: :,policy : :policymaking :portion:pose :position:,: :possibility :possibly :post-publication::potential :Potentially :power: :: : :powers : :precise :preclude :prescription:present :presented:President :presupposed:presupposes ::::presupposing :pretty :previous :previously ::OfficialPage pre-publicationprotected: :principle : :protecting :price : :::: :principled:printed:,prior: ::::private : :probably :problem: : :: : :: : :: : ::, :: : :,: : :,:process : :produce :produced:proffer:proffered:progress :,,: :,: : ::promote :,: :promotes :,promoting :property : :: : :: : :proposition:prospective :: :protect : :: :,: :: : ::, :: : :: :protection:,:,,, ::, :,:,, :,: :, :: : ::, ::, :,:,, :: :,:, :: :, ::, :: : ::,,protections :: :provide :,: :, :,: :provided:,: : :provides :,: : :provision:,:provisions :public : :,:,,,: : :,:,,,,: : :: :,,:,,,,:, : ::,, :,: : ::,,,,:, :public's :published:,: :,,,: :,publishers :publishing ::purpose : :pursue :pursued:put : : ::, : ::putting :p.m:Qquestion: :: : ::,, :: : :: :questioning :quite : :,,: : :RR :raise :raised: :ran:rational :,reach : :,:, ::reached: :: :reaching :read : :: : ::reading : ::,, real :really : ::, :: :reason : :: : :: : :,reasonable :reasons :rebuttal : ::receive :reciprocal :recognize :recognized:: :record :recordings :Records :rectifies :refer: :referring : ::reflect : :reflects :refused:refusing :registrar:registration:regulated:rejected::remarkable :remedy :Remember:remove : :removed:removing :rendition:renew:, :::renewed:require :required:,: : ::,,requirement :requirements :::requires : :rerun :reserve :resident :residents :,respect :,: : :: : :: : ::, : ::,related:relations : :respectfully :Respondents :: :,:reliance : :: :,,relied:relieve :remainder:remained:remaining ::: :responding :response :restore : :restored: :restrict : :restricting :restriction: ::restrictions :respected: :: :Ringer: :Roberts : :,OfficialPage restrictive :restricts :result : :retroactive :::retrospective :revisited: :revive : :revoke :reward :rewarding :rides :right : : ::, :,: :, :: : :: :,,: :,: : ::,, :: : :: : :: :, :rights :, :: : :: :, :: :, ::, : :::,,,: :,,:, : ::,, :: : :: : :roughly :Round :Royal :rules :run : :Russia :SS : :Samuel:sanctioned:satisfied:Save :saying :, :: : ::, :,says : :,: : :: : :: : :: :Scalia :,,,: :, :: :,:, :,,Scalia's :scheme :,science :,,:sciences :scofflaws :scope :scrutiny : :: :, ::, :,:, :second : :: :Secretary :section : :: :,: : :: : :: :, ::secure :,,secured:see : :: : :sell :, :Senate :send :,sense :separate :sequence :serious : :seriously :served:,set : : ::, :: :,setting : : :: :Shakespeare ::sheet :shelf :Shostakovich:: : : :show: :showing :shows : :side : :: :significant :: :,: :signing :signs :similar:simple :simply : :: :,:singular:sit :sitting :situation:: :situations :small : :::Smith:,solely : OfficialPage Solicitor:somebody ::somebody's :somewhat :sorry : :sort :Sotomayor:,:, ::, :,:,,, ::,,, ::, :,:,,,:, :,Sotomayor's :sound :span :speak :,speech : :: :,,:,, :: :spend :spoke :spread :,,:standard :standards :Stanford :start :, :started:,:startup :State : :: :States :, :: :,,,: :,,,:, :: :,,: :,,:, :statute :, :: : :,:, : :: : :: : :: : ::,, ::statutes :,:,, :stimulate :,Stop :stopping : :Stravinski:striking :strong :structure :stuff :subject : :: : :submitted:,substantial :substantially :substantive :,::succinctness :suddenly :sue :,suggest :suggesting ::suggests :suppose ::Supreme :,sure : : :: : :: :synonym:system: ::, : ::, :TT : :,,, ::take : : ::, : :: : :: :taken: :talk :talking :,, :: : :: : ::talks :tariffs :Taylor:tell : :telling :term : :: : ::,, ::, : ::terms : :test : :,testimony ::text :, ::, :,:textual : :,Thank : :,:,, :thanks :theory :,, :: :thereof :thing : : ::, :: :things : :: :,: : :: : :think : : :: :, ::, :,:, :,,: :,,,: :,:,, ::, :,: : :: :,,,:,, :,:,, ::, :: : ::, :,,:,,,,:,,,:, :,: :thinking : :third : :thought : ::, : ::three : ::throw:time : :,,:,, :,:,, :,,:,,, ::,, ::,, :,:,,,,: :, :: : :: : ::, :: :times :, :: : :: : :,:tip : :tit-for-tat :Tocqueville :,:, :today :, :: : :told :tomorrow:track :trackers :Trade :tradition:traditional : :transferred:,transforming :transition:,:::treasure :treat :treated: :treaties : :treating :treaty : ::,triggered:triggers :trip :TRIPS :,trove :true : : :: : :try :,trying : ::, ::turn : :turned:two : :: :Uunable : :unambiguously: OfficialPage unconstitutional:understand :: :under-enforcement:uniform :uniformity :United:, :: :,,,:, :: :,,: :unlimited:unprecedented:unprotected:: : :unpublished:unsupported:untouchable :unyielding :upholds :,urging : :Uruguay :use : :,: : :,: : :useful :, ::user:U.S : : :: : :: :Vv : : :,,:vague :valuable :vanishingly :variety :vending :Venice :Verrilli : ::,, ::,, ::,, ::,, :,:, :,:, :,,: :,,: : :: :,:, : :: :,,:, :,versus :vest :viable :view:viewed:viewpoint :violate : :violated:virtue :vital :WWait :want : :: : :: : ::, : :wanted: ::wants : :war:,,Warsaw:wartime :,Washington:,wasn't : ::way : : ::, : :: : ::ways : :Web:Wednesday :weighed:went :, :weren't : ::We'll :we're : :,,: :, :: :,,: :we've : : ::whatsoever:Wheaton:,wide : :widow:willing :wisdom: :word :words : :work :,, :: :, :: : :: :,,: : ::, :: : :: : ::worked:works : :,: : :: : :,:, :,,: : ::,, ::,,,,: : ::, :,:,, :: :,,,:, ::, :,:,,, ::,, :,: :world : :,: :worldwide :worse :,wouldn't :: :,write :writing :written: :: :wrong : :wrote :WTO : :x :,XYyear :years : : :: : :: : :: :, :: : ::York : :,:Zzero :, : :: :,: : :Zimbabwe : : : :- : :: : :: : :s : : :, : :: :,,:, :: :,: :,,,: :, : : :: :, :: :, : : : :,,:th: : :, :: : : : :: : : : : : : :,: :s : :th:s : : : : :,th:s : : : ::, : : OfficialPage :,,, ::, :: : ::, : : :th: : : 