Official IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES The above-entitled matter came on for oral Petitioners v. Washington, D.C. Monday, October , - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x ESTHER KIOBEL, INDIVIDUALLY AND ON: : BEHALF OF HER LATE HUSBAND, DR. BARINEM KIOBEL, ET AL., : : No. - : ROYAL DUTCH PETROLEUM CO., ET AL. : - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x argument before the Supreme Court of the United States at : a.m. APPEARANCES: PAUL L. HOFFMAN, ESQ., Venice, California; on KATHLEEN M. SULLIVAN, ESQ., New York, New York; on DONALD B. VERRILLI, JR., ESQ., Solicitor General, Department of Justice; Washington, D.C.; for United States, as amicus curiae, supporting Respondents. behalf of Petitioners. behalf of Respondents. Official C O N T E N T S PAGE On behalf of the Respondents For United States, as amicus curiae, supporting the Respondents On behalf of the Petitioners On behalf of the Petitioners ORAL ARGUMENT OF ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAUL L. HOFFMAN, ESQ. KATHLEEN M. SULLIVAN, ESQ. ORAL ARGUMENT OF DONALD B. VERRILLI, JR., ESQ. REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF PAUL L. HOFFMAN, ESQ. Petroleum. MR. HOFFMAN: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it please the Court: The plaintiffs in this case received asylum Mr. Hoffman? ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAUL L. HOFFMAN ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS (: a.m.) CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument first this term in Case -, Kiobel v. Royal Dutch in the United States because of the human rights violations alleged in the complaint. They sued the defendants for their role in these human rights here and subject to the general personal jurisdiction of our courts. tortfeasor in our -- raised as an affirmative defense, but not raised in a about the statement you just made? Personal jurisdiction was raised as a defense, right? violations in U.S. courts because the defendants are There's nothing unusual about suing a JUSTICE GINSBURG: May -- may I ask you Official P R O C E E D I N G S MR. HOFFMAN: Personal jurisdiction was motion to dismiss. Official JUSTICE GINSBURG: And so your position is adjudicated. Is there -- MR. HOFFMAN: It was not adjudicated in this JUSTICE KENNEDY: What effects that commenced in the United States or that are closely MR. HOFFMAN: Yes. JUSTICE GINSBURG: But it was not it was waived? case. Our position, it was waived when it was not raised in a Rule motion. related to the United States exist between what happened here and what happened in Nigeria? between the events in Nigeria and the United States is that the plaintiffs are now living in the United States and have asylum because of those events, and the defendants are here. There's no other connection between the events that took place in the -- in Nigeria and the forum. The -- the basis for suing the was possible to get jurisdiction. clear -- MR. HOFFMAN: Yes. JUSTICE KENNEDY: -- it's your defendants here was because they are here and because it MR. HOFFMAN: The -- the only connection JUSTICE KENNEDY: And just to make it position -- and I believe it's the position of the United States; I'm not sure -- that if a U.S. corporation commits an international law violation in the United States, that U.S. corporation can be sued in MR. HOFFMAN: Well, it is -- it is possible that other countries would assert jurisdiction. I think that, generally speaking -- and it might well have been the case in this case had the issues been raised -- most of the time, alternative doctrines like the requirement of personal jurisdiction, or the requirement -- or forum non conveniens or other doctrines would -- would have those cases litigated in other places. stated the hypothetical, or the proposition, that is your beginning proposition -- although there might be some defenses. But as a beginning matter, that they can be sued in any country in any court in the world. and what the law in that jurisdiction was. JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, we assume -- MR. HOFFMAN: I think that this -- sorry. JUSTICE KENNEDY: -- we assume a violation MR. HOFFMAN: Well, I think it would depend on what the events were and what the claims were and -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: But then -- but the way I Official any court in the world? of international law -- Official In fact, in the United Kingdom and -- and CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I suppose, if you have -- I suppose, if you have, as I think there MR. HOFFMAN: Okay. JUSTICE KENNEDY: -- as part of the MR. HOFFMAN: Yeah. Well, I think that if -- if, in fact, the U.S. corporation committed a hypothetical. violation of a universal jurisdiction norm, for example, as we believe these norms are in this case, there are many jurisdictions in which U.S. corporations could be -- could be sued. the Netherlands, I believe their juris -- their provisions enforcing the international criminal court might -- probably is in this case, a number of plaintiffs, they can sue in a number of different countries, right? Some will sue in the United States, others in the United Kingdom, others in the Netherlands? MR. HOFFMAN: Well, it -- it is possible that the plaintiffs could have sued in other places. They sued here because this is where they live. This is their adopted homeland because of that. The United States, under international law, clearly has jurisdiction to adjudicate claims between Official MR. HOFFMAN: Well, if -- if there are I mean in domestic courts, there are JUSTICE SCALIA: Is there some -- is there That is to say, these other countries that have proceedings with respect to those norms or violations, parties properly before them. some super body that decides what constitutes a violation of the particular norms of international law? jurisdiction, they decide for themselves, don't they, what -- whether there's been a violation of the international norm or not? yes, they do. international tribunals that have a limited jurisdiction, and they decide. There are some ad hoc tribunals that decide other cases. And the national -- national courts have always been engines of decision making on -- on international law. this statute comes from the founders' desire to have been the deciders when -- when the violation occurs within the nation. But to give national courts elsewhere the power to determine whether a United States corporation in the United States has violated a norm of In fact, that's the foundation of this -- of Federal courts decide what law of nations claims -- JUSTICE SCALIA: Sure, national courts have Official JUSTICE GINSBURG: You didn't mention MR. HOFFMAN: Well, there is the possibility of exhaustion of local remedies. I know the European international law is something else, it seems to me. MR. HOFFMAN: Well, it's -- it's unlikely that -- that that would come up, because the suit could be brought in the United States. It's also unlikely, because, based on most forum non conveniens doctrines, the suit would be heard here, because -- exhaustion of administrative remedies. Union brief suggests that that's part of the international law package that one has to accept. And this Court in Sosa did say that it would consider an exhaustion of local remedies doctrine if that was the And, of course, exhaustion of local remedies would be an additional safeguard against the issue that Justice Kennedy and Justice --brought in the United States and the State Department tells the district court that allowing this case to go forward will have a very deleterious effect on U.S. foreign policy and on the welfare of U.S. -- U.S. citizens abroad.case. JUSTICE ALITO: Suppose a case like this is MR. HOFFMAN: Well, I think there -- Official JUSTICE ALITO: The district court says: I think -- JUSTICE ALITO: Well, what would happen in MR. HOFFMAN: Well, I think the political MR. HOFFMAN: Well, no, not at all. I mean, "Well, there's nothing I can do about it. This case is just going to forward." That's your position? that situation? question doctrine would clearly apply, and -- and -- and won't certify a question for interlocutory appeal? assume it would be accepted -- is that if the United States says going forward at all raises those questions, that it would be able to go up on a Cohen v. --a court would decide whether to go forward. If the United States believed that -- that the case should be dismissed, as I understand the U.S. position in past cases like Doe v. Exxon, is that -- that there should be interlocutory appeal from -- from a denial of a political question doctrine decision to go forward in light of that. Alito can protect his own hypothetical, but it seems to MR. HOFFMAN: Well, but I think what the U.S. position is, and I think -- I think it would -- I JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, you know, Justice JUSTICE ALITO: What if a district court Official MR. HOFFMAN: Right -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: -- involve the United States or its citizens living abroad in serious MR. HOFFMAN: Right. JUSTICE KENNEDY: But that proceeding with me you're walking away from it. The question as I understood it assumed that there is a violation of international law. this particular case will, because of some other reasons -- complications with a foreign Government. That's not a political question. MR. HOFFMAN: Well -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: There's -- there's -- you can't cite a case -- but maybe you can, please do if you can -- that this is part of the political question Corrie v. Caterpillar, for example, there were alleged human rights violations, and the United States said that because U.S. aid was involved in providing the MR. HOFFMAN: Well, it could be. JUSTICE KENNEDY: There's political doctrine. MR. HOFFMAN: Well, I think that in consequences, but that's the whole point. bulldozers that were involved in that alleged human Official bring it? MR. HOFFMAN: Well -- JUSTICE BREYER: That would get rid of this rights violation, that the court should dismiss on political question grounds, and the courts did dismiss on political question grounds. JUSTICE BREYER: Couldn't you just say if --would we have the power to say, looking at Sosa and the principles that narrow considerably the subject matter of this statute, to add a requirement that if the State Department says that it interferes with foreign relations it doesn't fall within the statute, can't problem, wouldn't it? political question doctrine would work would probably end up being the same when it's that kind of rule. By the way, did we sign the torture treaty? treaty. MR. HOFFMAN: Yes. We've ratified -- JUSTICE BREYER: We've signed the torture MR. HOFFMAN: Well, that would get rid of the problem. I think that in truth, the -- the way the JUSTICE BREYER: It would be the same thing. MR. HOFFMAN: We've ratified -- JUSTICE BREYER: The torture treaty does provide for -- for what is it called, universal Official MR. HOFFMAN: Right. JUSTICE BREYER: So the situation that we're jurisdiction? MR. HOFFMAN: Yes. JUSTICE BREYER: All right. So, if in fact a corporation in the United States, in cahoots with the Government or something, should do the unusual thing of violating the torture treaty, Tasmania or any country in the world that signed the torture treaty would have jurisdiction under that treaty to proceed, is that right? talking about already is in existence. MR. HOFFMAN: That's right. I mean, there's nothing that the Court would do in this case that would corporation, it wouldn't fall under the torture -- torture treaty says nothing about corporations. different from the ICC. amicus brief from the European Commission. But the -- the -- yes, Justice. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Counsel, there is the JUSTICE BREYER: Well, that's -- no, the change -- JUSTICE ALITO: Well, if it was the MR. HOFFMAN: Right. I mean, that's MR. HOFFMAN: Yes. Official necessity, which apparently most countries have, including the ones who have submitted amici arguing -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: And it provides for a very simple rule. Please explain to me what's wrong with it. It basically says you have to borrow both the substantive and procedural international law norms; that those norms do permit these foreign-cubed cases only so long as either, it appears to me, the defendant is a citizen of the country, the acts occurred within that country, or the alien has exhausted both domestic and international avenues for relief, a sort of forum by like England and The Netherlands. MR. HOFFMAN: Right. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: It seems to me like a fairly simple set of rules clearly defined and limiting the application of this statute in a way that sort of makes sense. rule? MR. HOFFMAN: I don't think there is a lot wrong with the rule, actually. In a foreign-cubed kind of case, it seems to me the EU position is, number one, MR. HOFFMAN: Right. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- different points, MR. HOFFMAN: Well, I think -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: What's wrong with the JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So answer me why is this not the case where on the facts there has been a failure to exhaust. that there is universal jurisdiction, no matter whether you consider the Federal Commonwealth cause of action prescriptive or not. And so, the countries of the world have agreed that all states have an interest in international law. And that -- that what goes with that are limits of exhaustion of remedies under international law, which guard -- safeguards the interests of third states before the United States can -- we would -- there's no record, obviously, about that. And one of the arguments we would make about exhaustion, I believe, is that it would have been futile to exhaust under international law -- under international law standards. and the Netherlands. MR. HOFFMAN: Right. And I think that we -- you know, we have -- if there was an exhaustion of local remedies requirement, then we would have to see if we JUSTICE GINSBURG: Might be -- Nigeria is one question, but other potential forums are the U.K. MR. HOFFMAN: Well, I think that we would --Official enforcing these fundamental norms and that's part of could satisfy that. JUSTICE KAGAN: But you would agree, Mr. MR. HOFFMAN: Well, I mean, it depends on Official JUSTICE GINSBURG: I think -- haven't both MR. HOFFMAN: It's not clear. I mean, in it would not apply only to Nigeria, but also to the Netherlands and to the U.K.? of those nations said they would not entertain this case? fact, the -- you know, there is a recent Dutch decision that goes perhaps farther than the Alien Tort Statute, the Al Brujaj case. Hoffman, that if there were an exhaustion requirement, how the Court frames it. I mean, there's the exhaustion requirement under the Torture Victim Protection Act, there are other arguments about what that looks like under international law. I mean, I think that -- to follow up on Justice Sotomayor's point, I think that if that's deemed by the Court to be a requirement of international law, then international law rules on exhaustion should apply, and we would either be able to satisfy them or not or take whatever position we would take with respect to that. JUSTICE ALITO: Well, the U.K. -- the U.K. and the Netherlands, I -- well, I'll ask you. Do you disagree that those are fair judicial systems where a Official they obviously are. JUSTICE ALITO: Well, if that's so, then MR. HOFFMAN: Well --JUSTICE ALITO: -- when it has nothing to do plaintiff can get a fair shake? MR. HOFFMAN: Yeah. No, I don't think that anybody disputes that -- that the legal systems in the Netherlands or the United Kingdom are fair. I mean, what does this case -- why does this case belong in the courts of the United States -- with the United States other than the fact that a subsidiary of the defendant has a big operation here? MR. HOFFMAN: Well, it -- it -- from our standpoint it's here, the way I started the argument, really, which is that our clients are here, they're here. Their -- personal jurisdiction has not been contested and no one made a forum non conveniens motion in this particular case. Now, there was a forum non conveniens motion in a companion case. So -- but I think that that's a problem that goes more toward -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: And what happened to that? overturned the district court on forum non conveniens. JUSTICE GINSBURG: Overturned it which way? MR. HOFFMAN: It -- the Second Circuit MR. HOFFMAN: It said that the case -- that non conveniens, generally speaking, is going to deal with the problem -- the problems that the Court has raised. If -- if the Court believes that the Wiwa decision was wrong or that that doctrine's wrong, that doctrine should be changed. the Wiwa case could proceed and -- non conveniens. MR. HOFFMAN: Rejected forum non conveniens in that case. And I know that the United States brief believes that that was wrongly decided. But from our standpoint, the -- if we're talking about the way that the ATS should be structured, our belief is that forum about your reliance on the Alien Tort Statute, but if your theory is that this is a violation of a universal norm, and that Federal common law makes it a claim available in the United States, now there is Tort Statute, I'm suing under Federal question jurisdiction, and I have got the -- the claim for relief is the U.S. common law implementing the international general Federal question jurisdiction. Couldn't you have said, never mind the Alien JUSTICE GINSBURG: May I ask you a question Official JUSTICE GINSBURG: So it rejected the forum law? that were similar to those norms. The history of , as the historians' brief lays out, is that the Founders believed that Sosa said that its analysis did not necessarily apply to , and I think that's because of the history of . certain law of nations norms could be implemented by common law tort actions. And this Court in Sosa found that without further congressional action, the courts of the United States would be available to enforce norms And in fact, the norms that the Founders were familiar with were very similar in kind to the universal jurisdiction norms that Justice Sotomayor -- JUSTICE SCALIA: Yes, but -- but general -- neither Federal law nor state law. If that were so, every tort action, which in those days were decided under -- under a general law that was up there in the sky, would have been a Federal -- a Federal claim. MR. HOFFMAN: But there were -- there was certain -- there were certain norms that were believed to be part of the law of nations, including piracy and attacks on ambassadors, and they were governed by universal standards.general common law was not considered to be Federal law, Official MR. HOFFMAN: Well, I think this Court in JUSTICE SCALIA: Common law. It's general Official that -- that the courts of this country have not lost common law. MR. HOFFMAN: Well, but I think this Court found in Sosa that that -- that that part of common law at the time has become customary international law, and their ability to enforce the same kinds of law of nations norms as the Founders wanted to be -- to enforce in the Alien Tort Statute in the context of universal human rights norms. JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, that isn't the issue. The issue is whether when they do so they are enforcing Federal law or not. it's the Federal common law within one of the exceptions to Erie and -- and I think this Court, right after Erie, found that there were enclaves of Federal law, one of them being the area of foreign relations, where Federal common law should be viewed as Federal -- in the affirmative by saying that there is jurisdiction, but you need not go so far, given Sosa. MR. HOFFMAN: We don't. We don't, and I think the distinction is that in Sosa and in the Alien apply if you were answering Justice Ginsburg's question Tort Statute the statute itself speaks about torts. MR. HOFFMAN: I think this Court said that JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, that answer would Official This Court found, based on the history and bring claims. So -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: -- maybe they had to provide that in because there was no -- there was JUSTICE GINSBURG: Well, maybe they had -- MR. HOFFMAN: -- we're not taking the intent of the Congress, that there was no reason to wait for any congressional authorization to go forward on those claims, and -- and therefore it was available to position that -- no general Federal question jurisdiction existing at the time. MR. HOFFMAN: Well, it could be, but what seems more obvious about the reason for the Alien Tort Statute was to make sure that there -- there was a Federal court available to litigate law of nations claims that could have been litigated in state court, just as these claims could be litigated in State court. And -- and in fact, one of the -- and, also, extraterritoriality, if one imagines -- under the Respondents' theory, you could -- a French ambassador could be attacked by a Frenchman in Pennsylvania and have Alien Tort Statute jurisdiction and a claim for relief. If a U.S. citizen attacked the French in answer to the Respondents' claims about Official Statute, the fundamental known purpose of the Alien Tort ambassador on foreign soil, he wouldn't have an Alien Tort Statute claim; he would be sent to the state courts if he could -- the state courts were open, which is exactly the opposite of the purpose of the Alien Tort Statute. JUSTICE GINSBURG: You point out, I think, an anomaly. If the victim is a United States citizen -- you say the only ties here are that the victims got asylum in the United States, so they are here. But someone who is here all the time, someone who is a citizen of the United States, but is abroad and is a victim of one of these atrocities, there would be no suit for such a person. MR. HOFFMAN: Well, the -- the Congress provided for some jurisdiction in the Torture Victim Protection Act. Tort Statute. MR. HOFFMAN: Well, the Alien Tort Statute is limited to alien plaintiffs. I mean, and that was the congressional design, and it was -- that arises out of the history, to make sure that aliens with law of nations claims had access to Federal courts and Federal remedies to -- to vindicate those positions. The -- the JUSTICE GINSBURG: Yes, but under the Alien Official ORAL ARGUMENT OF KATHLEEN M. SULLIVAN ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTS MS. SULLIVAN: Mr. Chief Justice and may it Can I reserve the balance of my time then? CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You can. Ms. Sullivan? United States could still take action to protect the U.S. citizen. please the Court: This case has nothing to do with the United States. It's Nigerian plaintiffs suing an English and Dutch company for activity alleged to have aided and abetted the Nigerian Government for conduct taking place entirely within Nigeria. And, Justice Ginsburg, to the personal jurisdiction question, Shell did not waive personal jurisdiction objections to the suit. The court in the companion Wiwa case determined -- rejected the personal jurisdiction affirmative defense, and the Second Circuit to , you'll see that we absolutely preserved the personal jurisdiction defense. with Mr. Hoffman about possible ways to minimize the Missing from the discussion you've just had affirmed. So if you look at Joint Appendix pages Official common law be applied to conduct taking place entirely JUSTICE GINSBURG: Does that mean, argument on brief correctly, that you would say from --the revival of from Filartiga was wrong because nothing happened -- nothing happened in the United States there? Marcos was wrong because nothing -- the wrong occurred abroad? dangers of applying the ATS in foreign countries is any mention of Congress. And I'd like to return us to the question presented on this round of the argument, which is: Should the ATS and, Justice Ginsburg, Federal within the borders of a foreign country? And our answer is it should not, under the -- Ms. Sullivan, that you -- and do I understand your that this is not applicable to things that happened offshore exclude Filartiga and Marcos? MS. SULLIVAN: We do not believe that you need to address Filartiga because Filartiga is taken Congress, in enacting the TVPA, the Torture Victim Protection Act, covered a situation like Filartiga, where a Paraguayan plaintiff sues a Paraguayan individual defendant for conduct in Paraguay.care of entirely by the proper body, which is Congress. Does your -- the argument you're making now JUSTICE GINSBURG: But then you're at least Official JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, maybe it's just granted cert in Filartiga before Congress acted? saying -- history and background, but I would really like you to answer Justice Ginsburg's question. Suppose we had What -- under your position, what should have been the result? I think that was the purport of her question, and I would appreciate an answer to it. MS. SULLIVAN: Yes, Justice Kennedy. We think the current correct result is that the ATS and Federal common law, which is substantive and remedial law of the United States -- and here, we agree with the United States on page of its brief -- ATS plus Federal common law is the substantive and remedial law of the United States. And we think, under the well-established canon against extraterritorial application of U.S. law, absent congressional clear indication, there should not be such an extension. So, therefore -- believe strongly in the presumption against extraterritorial application, but do you know of any other area where extraterritorial application only means application on the territory of a foreign country and JUSTICE SCALIA: Ms. Sullivan, can I ask you about your position on extraterritorial application. I not application on the high seas? Official statute applies on the high seas. MS. SULLIVAN: We -- we don't concede that isn't. MS. SULLIVAN: Well -- JUSTICE SCALIA: I find that -- you know, extraterritorial means extraterritorial, but -- but you contend that this -- as I think you must -- that this the statute applies on the high seas. JUSTICE SCALIA: Oh, you don't? Okay. I thought that was common ground. I'm glad to know it MS. SULLIVAN: Sosa said, looking to the three Blackstone paradigms, assaults on ambassadors, interference with safe conducts, and piracy, that certainly the antecedents to the ATS, the Marbois constable entering the home in New York City of the Dutch ambassador, those were incidents on U.S. soil. And Sosa says perhaps also the third paradigm, piracy, might also be covered. was the most clear violation of an international norm. The one thing that the civilized countries would agree on is that you -- MS. SULLIVAN: At the time. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: -- capture pirates. incident of an attack in Philadelphia, and the New York CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, I thought that Official that does not mean that the ATS and Federal common law we're asking. If, when the statute was passed, it applied to pirates, the question to me is who are today's pirates. And if Hitler isn't a pirate, who is? And if, in fact, an equivalent torturer or dictator who wants to destroy an entire race in his own country is not the equivalent of today's pirate, who is? MS. SULLIVAN: Our clear -- our position on piracy is this. Even if you think the ATS and Federal common law can extend to conduct on the high seas, which are stateless, a place where no foreign sovereign rules, can apply to conduct within a foreign sovereign's borders -- JUSTICE BREYER: Well, it doesn't mean that. It doesn't mean that, but if the -- what is the question And we have treaties that say there is universal jurisdiction. Other countries take it. So I absolutely grant you could make the distinction, but, given the purpose and an objective of the statute, why should we make it? MS. SULLIVAN: Justice Breyer -- JUSTICE BREYER: We took it in Filartiga. We took it in the cases that Justice Ginsburg mentioned. MS. SULLIVAN: Justice Breyer, with respect, the United States has not acceded to the principle of We object -- the United States objected to MS. SULLIVAN: Justice Breyer, in our brief universal civil jurisdiction. And with respect -- the torture treaty in respect to that particular incident. at , note , you'll see that that's not quite the case. I'm sorry -- I'm sorry. the universal civil jurisdiction aspect of the JUSTICE BREYER: They do that, don't they, with torture? I mean, isn't that -- it's criminal, not from civil. And what we -- the precise argument we are making here is that the presumption against application of U.S. law to conduct within foreign sovereigns -- and convention against torture. We have never acceded to that. And the reason is that we fear exactly the consequences Justice Kennedy began the argument with. We fear that if we say that a United States court can be open to try any accused law of nations violator for anywhere in the world regardless of the place of the conduct, the other nations of the world might seek to do the same to us. civil, quite right. Does that make it better? MS. SULLIVAN: Criminal is very different Official JUSTICE BREYER: Well, we did explicitly in remember, the purpose of the presumption, The conflict arises, and the presumption protects against this conflict, when we go into a as I say, I don't know any other case where -- where that principle allows our securities laws to be applied on the high seas, for example -- Justice Scalia, is to avoid conflict with foreign sovereigns. There is no foreign sovereign over the high seas. foreign nation, we project our law. the worst. But I really don't -- you appeal to the general principle of territoriality of our laws. And, MS. SULLIVAN: -- Your Honor, if you wish to say no extraterritorial application, we think Sosa does not foreclose that, because Sosa simply said piracy might be one of the -- the actions covered. which is -- In , do you think that Congress was contemplating tort actions against pirates in courts of the United MS. SULLIVAN: Well -- JUSTICE SCALIA: -- even though they can But I want to get back to the key point, JUSTICE ALITO: Can I ask this about piracy? apply in Australia. Official JUSTICE SCALIA: I understand that. That's States? Official foreign country on the high seas. So we would argue that the presumption against extraterritoriality actually applied in the founding era even to piracy. MS. SULLIVAN: No, we do not, Your Honor, because we think that in rem actions were the typical things contemplated. And as soon as United States v. Palmer comes along, this Court applied the presumption against extraterritorial application of U.S. law to -- the application of the then-extant piracy statute to a foreign-flagged vessel on the high seas. The thought was, don't apply it to the foreign-flagged vessel because that's like a mini- covered now, it doesn't follow that the norms that are invoked here under the law of nations can be subject to a U.S. civil cause of action. the U.S. is projecting here -- and I don't believe through the statute, the ATS, but through the causes of action under Federal common law -- our law onto foreign countries. argument is very broad, and I want to ask you a question. Your case might properly be dismissed. But But even if you were to say, well, piracy is And I want to stress that our point is that JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, Ms. Sullivan, your take a different case, and it's a -- just a variation on Official Wouldn't the ATS have contemplated exactly MS. SULLIVAN: The difference it makes is refuge in the United States. And the French difference whether the attack on the French ambassador by a United States citizen occurred in Philadelphia or occurred in London? the Marbois incident, where instead of being attacked in Philadelphia, the French ambassador to Britain is attacked in London, but is attacked by a United States citizen, who then comes home to the United States, seeks ambassador -- the French ambassador wants to bring an action. that sort of action? I mean, why would it make any that in your hypothetical, the reverse Marbois case, the seek extradition of the U.S. assailant and -- JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, I think I'm advised by the Solicitor General's office that there were very few extradition treaties at that time. And even if extradition was a possible remedy, I mean why shouldn't we understand the ATS to provide supplemental remedies as well, civil as well as criminal, civil as well as extradition? proper remedy would have been to seek -- for France to MS. SULLIVAN: Because Congress hasn't clearly said so. And the point of the presumption is to Official Congress doesn't get to say anything if it's And, Justice Alito, in answer to your JUSTICE SCALIA: Excuse me. Excuse me. Do avoid all of the judge-made possible qualifications that were discussed earlier: exhaustion, political question, the possible limitations suggested by the European Union. the courts deciding, through their own prudence, together with the advice from the Department of State. question whether -- Justice Scalia. And if so, it sometimes takes many years before they happen. And the State Department is not always listened to. only did the State Department seek to protest the action, but the Government of South Africa filed a letter, and the district court ignored both. you mean that the courts -- in those areas where you acknowledge the statute applies, that the courts will not apply doctrines of exhaustion, of, you know, comity, of -- the appropriateness of bringing the action here? Of course they will, won't they? JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, we should fix that then. But that's not the question here, right? The MS. SULLIVAN: They're not always applied, In the South African apartheid case, not Official And you are saying it would have made a MS. SULLIVAN: With respect, Your Honor, the question here is -- is the different one of whether you ever get to the exhaustion question. MS. SULLIVAN: Correct. JUSTICE KAGAN: And if you go back to the reverse Marbois, you said Congress didn't speak, but I think what we said in Sosa is that Congress did speak, that Congress was referring to exactly that kind of tort when it passed the Alien Tort Statute. difference to Congress that the incident occurred in a different place even though the attacker was a United States citizen seeking refuge in the United States and leaving the French with no remedy. French had several remedies. The French victim could have sued in tort in the United States. And under the transitory tort doctrine that was adopted at the time, which is not a precedent for the ATS, would have allowed a suit under French law. French law would have been in State court as an assault. stimulating the ATS was that if -- if a U.S. citizen Second, there could have been extradition. Third, the point of the Marbois in imported to try that claim. So it could have been tried attacks the French ambassador on U.S. soil, and we then Official court jurisdiction over a transitory tort should harbored him, that could have led to an incident of war. But there is no incident of war or conflict posed in your hypothetical because extradition was possible, and State court tort violations -- State law tort -- State have obtained. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Do you think it matters that the harboring is after the fact or not? Meaning if the -- if the mercenary fled France and was hiding from the French here, why is there any less chance of a war? MS. SULLIVAN: Well -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I don't understand. The apples and apples don't -- seem to not match in my mind. MS. SULLIVAN: Justice Sotomayor, I -- there transitory tort didn't work, and if extradition didn't work, and if the French didn't just seek to punish the assailant in their own country, maybe there would have been international conflict, but there is no evidence JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Pirates could have been sued in State court, too, and yet the ATS -- I know that you quarrel about whether an act of piracy qualifies as an international norm, but assuming that I accept it is, pirates could have been -- under your theory, pirates is theoretically the possibility that if State law Congress was thinking about that at the time. Official The two cases most soon after the ATS were could have been sued in State court, too, yet Congress found it important to pass the ATS. MS. SULLIVAN: It did. But, Your Honor, there is not a single founding era precedent, not a single one, that involves the reverse hypothetical. Every single founding era precedent that stimulated the ATS or came soon in its aftermath involved international law violations alleged to have occurred on U.S. soil or in U.S. waters. Moxon v. The Fanny and Bolchos v. Darrell, which involved supposed law of nations violations on U.S. waters and on U.S. soil. but it is alleged that the injury was directed by someone in the United States? respectfully urge that direction is -- is not enough. If the place of the injury and the place of the last conduct was on foreign soil. We think ordinary restatement of conflict principles would suggest that you look to the law of the place of injury, not to the forum law. JUSTICE ALITO: What should happen when the injury occurs within the territory of a foreign country, MS. SULLIVAN: Justice Alito, we would And the most important point about the ATS Official JUSTICE BREYER: Okay. You're right about stuff about -- you know what I'm talking about. they have to entertain private civil litigation. And and Federal common law, even if it were under section , Justice Ginsburg, is that it's an application of U.S. substantive and remedial law to another country. And the offense is we're telling the other country that there is a difference, Justice Breyer, between criminal and civil -- that. What about the Bradford? Isn't there -- all this MS. SULLIVAN: Bradford is the best thing the Petitioners have in the founding era, and it's not enough to overcome the presumption -- JUSTICE BREYER: Because? MS. SULLIVAN: -- because he could have been speaking about the high seas. read it, it looks as if there was -- what he's upset about -- or what Britain was upset about was an we -- we think, if properly read, the hostilities of which he spoke was the high seas part of the conduct. MS. SULLIVAN: And he -- JUSTICE BREYER: Yes. Go ahead. MS. SULLIVAN: It was Americans, but JUSTICE BREYER: He could have, but if you American. Official Alien Tort Statute. It was an American who piloted the French fleet miles from the Iles de Los to the Sierra Leone River. And that was -- if you read grammatically, we think that is what Attorney General Bradford was referring to. JUSTICE KAGAN: But -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: Ms. Sullivan, before your time runs out, I mean, you have said, candidly, that if Filartiga were to come up today, if Marcos were to come up to this forum, there would be no basis under the But assume for the moment that those two cases -- that we accept them -- Sosa seemed to accept them. Is there anything different about your case? one, this is a case in which there is a -- a class action against a corporation. And if you don't agree with us on the lack of extraterritorial application, we still maintain that the ATS does not apply to an allegation here of aiding and abetting a foreign Government. It was unclear in Filartiga whether the Paraguayan was acting within or without the state's MS. SULLIVAN: Yes, Your Honor. There are many -- many differences between us and Filartiga. For authority, but -- and he was later deported, so we don't corporations. Second, there is -- there was a -- there's Official foreign government, where everything is foreign. But we don't think you should do that in the where the offense to the principle against international know the answer. But here the offense is magnified because the allegation is that an English and a Dutch company aided and abetted the Nigerian Government. That is friction is at its highest. And so if you weren't to adopt our position in full, at a minimum we think you should hold that the presumption applies to foreign-cubed cases involving aiding and abetting a first instance. We respectfully submit the better approach is to apply the presumption as a categorical matter. JUSTICE KENNEDY: But in Filartiga, why wasn't there an aiding and abetting? I think it was pretty clear. He probably was working for the government, which is even worse. MS. SULLIVAN: Well --JUSTICE KENNEDY: But -- and I am interested Second Circuit was right, pre-congressional action under the Alien Tort Statute. Is -- is there any way in which in Justice Ginsburg's question. MS. SULLIVAN: Yes. JUSTICE KENNEDY: Just assume we think the Official didn't we, in Sosa? right? MS. SULLIVAN: We think there is, extraterritoriality is -- is essentially a MS. SULLIVAN: You have -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: The presumption we can use the principle of extraterritoriality to rule in your favor? Justice Kennedy. And we think the principle of democracy-forcing device to send these questions back to Congress. And if we send it back to Congress -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, have we crossed that -- we've crossed that bridge already, applies to interpreting acts of Congress. We are over that. We're -- we're making this law up ourselves, MS. SULLIVAN: Chief -- Mr. Chief Justice, you are making it up themselves, and that's why there's all the more reason to apply the presumption against application to foreign countries. overturn our precedents. It's far worse to have judges -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But you're asking us to MS. SULLIVAN: We -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: You're -- you're basically saying Filartiga and Marcos, Sosa, they were Official MS. SULLIVAN: We are not, Your Honor. Sosa JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Counsel, how can you say all wrong. did not address the question we have before the Court today. that? Maybe the facts didn't, but certainly the reasoning of the case addressed that issue very directly and -- and basically said it does. And then it talked about how you limit it. That's what Sosa did. question, you don't need to overrule, so to speak, Filartiga on Justice Kennedy's question. You can simply say that in the intervening period, Congress did, as is appropriate in the area of applying law to foreign conduct, pass a specific statute, the TVPA, that applies exactly to the conduct in Filartiga. That should inform your decision today, that you don't need judge-made law to address the situation in Filartiga. address, for better or for worse, the extraterritoriality argument we make today. It went off at the first step. No international norms, specifically universal and specific -- sufficiently specific and universal. So it didn't get to the concerns about respect, Justice Sotomayor, because Sosa did not MS. SULLIVAN: To answer the Chief Justice's And you don't need to overrule Sosa, with Official JUSTICE KAGAN: But, Ms. Sullivan, I'm going before him, an enemy of all mankind." So we gave a stamp of approval to Filartiga friction with foreign countries. to read you something from Sosa, which -- it talks all about the rule that it adopts and then it says: "This is generally consistent with the reasoning of many of the courts and judges who faced the issue before it reached this Court. See Filartiga." And then it quotes Filartiga: "For purposes of civil liability, the torturer has become like the pirate and slave trader and Filartiga's understanding that there were certain categories of offenders who were today's pirates. MS. SULLIVAN: If -- the fact that the nations of the world agree on norms does not mean the nations of the world agree on remedies. And what the ATS and Federal common law, as interpreted in Sosa, do is project a U.S. civil cause of action with U.S. rules, punitive damages, no attorney fee shifting, contingent except by Congress. They did it in the TVPA, but you should not permit it to be done here. Thank you. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, fee and punitive damages. That should not be done Ms. Sullivan. SUPPORTING THE RESPONDENTS GENERAL VERRILLI: Mr. Chief Justice, and ORAL ARGUMENT OF DONALD B. VERRILLI, JR., FOR THE UNITED STATES, AS AMICUS CURIAE, defendant aided and abetted a foreign sovereign. In this category of cases, there just isn't any meaningful connection to the United States. may it please the Court: The Alien Tort Statute should not afford a cause of action to address the extraterritorial conduct of a foreign corporation when the allegation is that the that your simple rule? Is that how you want us to never be aiding and abetting on behalf of a corporation? Is that your simple answer to this case, or what's the statement than that, Justice Sotomayor. It's that there shouldn't be a cause of action to address the extraterritorial conduct of a foreign corporation that GENERAL VERRILLI: Yes. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- that there could rule --general -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Is that the same -- is Official General Verrilli. GENERAL VERRILLI: It's -- it's a narrower is alleged to have aided and abetted the acts of a Official JUSTICE GINSBURG: What about in your -- you GENERAL VERRILLI: Yes, we do, GENERAL VERRILLI: Well, we think in foreign sovereign. do say in your brief that you think that Filartiga is within the Alien Tort Statute. Justice Ginsburg. JUSTICE GINSBURG: You don't -- don't adopt a theory that many of the -- briefs do, that there has to be some connection, some nexus to the United States. You just tell us that Filartiga is okay. And how about Marcos, is that okay? Filartiga, Justice Ginsburg, that the -- the -- that there is a nexus to the United States. The actual perpetrator. -- for why Filartiga was okay is that -- that it was the actual perpetrator, not an aider and abettor, and the GENERAL VERRILLI: And B --JUSTICE GINSBURG: -- you don't offer us a perpetrator was -- A, it was a case against the actual nexus. You don't offer us that reason why Filartiga was okay. GENERAL VERRILLI: Yes, I think our reasons JUSTICE GINSBURG: Yes, but you -- you don't Official that -- where we think ATS -- ATS causes of action should be recognized. actual perpetrator was resident in the United States. And I do think when Congress enacted the TVPA, that is what Congress looked to as the salient features of the Filartiga situation that justified --JUSTICE GINSBURG: What else? What else? You -- you say Filartiga. You don't mention Marcos. Is Marcos in your view a proper exercise? GENERAL VERRILLI: I -- I think Filartiga is the paradigm, and cases like Filartiga are the paradigm JUSTICE SCALIA: General Verrilli, the -- that's -- that is a new position for the -- for the State Department, isn't it? United States Government? Why should -- why should we listen to you rather than the solicitors general who took the opposite position and the position taken by Respondents here in other cases, not only in several courts of appeals, but even up here? a case like this one, in cases under the Alien Tort Statute, the United States has multiple interests. We certainly have foreign relations interests in avoiding GENERAL VERRILLI: It's a new -- JUSTICE SCALIA: And for -- and for the GENERAL VERRILLI: Well, Justice Scalia, in Official law and human rights are not eroded. JUSTICE SCALIA: I understand that, but -- GENERAL VERRILLI: It's my responsibility to should be, consistent with existing law. JUSTICE SCALIA: It -- it was -- GENERAL VERRILLI: And we have done so. JUSTICE SCALIA: -- it was the friction with foreign governments; we have interests in avoiding subjecting United States companies to liability abroad. We also have interests in ensuring that our Nation's foreign relations commitments to the rule of balance those sometimes competing interests and make a judgment about what the position of the United States responsibility of your predecessors as well, and they took a different position. So, you know, why -- why should we defer to the views of -- of the current administration? they are persuasive, Your Honor. JUSTICE SCALIA: Oh, okay. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Your successors may adopt a different view. And I think -- I don't want to put words in his mouth, but Justice Scalia's point means whatever deference you are entitled to is compromised by the fact that your predecessors took a different GENERAL VERRILLI: Well, because we think Official GENERAL VERRILLI: So, Mr. Chief Justice, position. let me be clear: In this case our position is that the Court ought not recognize a cause of action. JUSTICE ALITO: Suppose that the defendant in this case were a U.S. corporation, but the case were otherwise identical. What result then? GENERAL VERRILLI: In that case the possible risk of foreign relations friction would be comparable. The risk of reciprocal exposure to American companies would also exist. The difference between that case and this case, Your Honor, is that there'd be a much more substantial connection to the United States because it's an American company. The question in the case would be whether the -- that substantial connection provided a sufficient justification for subjecting the United States company to these international law norms to avoid undermining the credibility of our Nation's commitment to those norms. We haven't taken a position on that question in this case because we think that the Court ought to proceed incrementally here. The case before the Court involves a foreign corporation in which there just isn't any connection to the United States at all, and it's our judgment that the Court should decide that case -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I asked you a question directly. Are you foregoing -- are you foregoing any forum necessity exception to the rule you've just announced? JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: You are disavowing -- you are disavowing any forum of necessity view of the ATS? You are disavowing what other countries do or say with respect to citizens -- to aliens who are attacked? Justice Sotomayor, is that the key determinant here, and the reason why there ought not be a cause of action here, is the absence of any meaningful connection to the United States. And the question is -- nonavailability of a forum is sufficient to override the absence of any connection to the United States. definitively which way you would come out in this hypothetical case, but from your brief I really don't understand how you would decide. Would it depend -- what would it depend on? Now, I will say -- JUSTICE ALITO: If I could follow up on the GENERAL VERRILLI: We don't think that the question of the availability of a forum or question I asked before. I'm not asking you to say Official GENERAL VERRILLI: Our view about that, GENERAL VERRILLI: Well, I think it would Official credibility -- JUSTICE BREYER: Suppose everything is the depend on a weighing of the strength of the interests of the United States, the foreign relations interests of the United States, in applying this narrow category of Sosa norms in order to avoid undermining the same except for -- JUSTICE SCALIA: But we don't -- we are not very good at figuring out the foreign policy interests in this area, Justice Scalia. doesn't act. Why should -- you know, you want us to listen to the State Department case by case. Is that -- GENERAL VERRILLI: Well, actually what we are advocating here, Your Honor, is that the Court can of the United States. And, you know, in the past we have tried to get out from under our prior case law in the sovereign immunity area of asking the State Department. And the State Department would come in here: This is good; this is bad. We abandoned all that in the sovereign immunity field. Why should we walk back into it here? Or do you intend to have us make these foreign policy decisions? make categorical judgments, not pure case by case GENERAL VERRILLI: Congress can always act JUSTICE SCALIA: No, but assuming Congress Official factual judgments. We just think there is more than one category. There are salient differences between a situation like this one, in which there is no connection to the United States at all, or a situation like the one Justice Alito raised about an American corporation. And there are also cases in which the suit is against a direct perpetrator. Department as to what those categories ought to be. categories are evident from the kinds of cases that have been brought. But -- but certainly, the views of the State Department do deserve deference. have either an actor nexus or a act nexus, effect nexus? What are you talking? we're not -- we're talking about something different, a Federal common law cause of action. I think that depends on -- doesn't. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Are you talking about a nexus test? That's what it sounds like to me. Has to Justice Sotomayor. The question is whether to recognize JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Either it exists or it GENERAL VERRILLI: It depends on a weighing JUSTICE SCALIA: But we listen to the State GENERAL VERRILLI: Well, I think the GENERAL VERRILLI: I think what we're -- Official JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Is -- that -- I'm having trouble with this. We -- without question, piracy, of interests, I believe, Your Honor, and that there are interests that cut against recognizing causes of acts in this area, and that's what Sosa said. attacks on ambassadors, we know that those were international norms in . If one of those acts happened, you seem to be suggesting that, answering Justice Kagan's hypothetical, that if a Frenchman attacks an English ambassador in Switzerland, that case would never be heard in the United States because there is no nexus to the United States; is that correct? to the United States. came. So how is that different from here? not -- the connection is not an on/off switch. But our position is you need a connection in order to assess whether there is even an interest in having cause of action -- alone in the United States a connection? individual perpetrator like Filartiga we think that it GENERAL VERRILLI: Well, if no one ever came JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, assuming someone GENERAL VERRILLI: No. It's just -- it's JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So why isn't presence GENERAL VERRILLI: Well, if it's an Official JUSTICE BREYER: If in the -- in fact in GENERAL VERRILLI: If the -- if the -- it GENERAL VERRILLI: If it's a norm that has to be violated by -- JUSTICE BREYER: Torture is done by hiring JUSTICE BREYER: You heard the question. I is because it's the direct perpetrator. Filartiga it was done through a corporation -- the torture -- now? was -- I think torture has to be -- Torture, Inc. Okay? Is there or isn't there? need an answer to that specific -- that specific hypothetical. Everything is the same except the torture is carried out by Torture, Inc. Because my actual question is about aiding and abetting. I mean, the first part is they do it directly. Can they bring Filartiga or not -- in your view? GENERAL VERRILLI: If they do it directly. If they are the direct violator of a norm that they can and abetting? corporation and it occurred entirely in a foreign violate directly, then yes they can. JUSTICE BREYER: Okay. But if it's aiding GENERAL VERRILLI: Then if it's a foreign country. Official GENERAL VERRILLI: May I answer, JUSTICE BREYER: Yes. So it turns on that. And what I really want to know is what is the difference between that? Is it like the criminal law difference of accessory versus principle or what? Mr. Chief Justice? CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Briefly, yes. GENERAL VERRILLI: The difference is that while you would have a comparable -- you would have a risk of friction in subjecting a foreign sovereign's acts to scrutiny in the United States, you have the reciprocity risk I mentioned. You would have to make a judgment about whether those concerns are overcome by the countervailing concern of applying the -- finding an ATS cause of action to apply U.S. norms. If it's an entirely foreign corporation with no connection to the United States, our position is the answer to that is no. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel. Mr. Hoffman you have eight minutes I would like to make three points. MR. HOFFMAN: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice. First, on the Bradford opinion. I think if remaining. REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF PAUL L. HOFFMAN ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS Official you can read it. And Attorney General Bradford said you read the diplomatic materials that we placed before the Court, it's absolutely clear that what the British were concerned about was pillaging and plundering on land in the Sierra Leone colony. They were seeking redress for those things, for destroying libraries, for destroying Freetown, not just about things that happened on the high seas and not just about things that happened in territorial waters. It's absolutely clear that that's true, but obviously you have those materials and there was no doubt that there was an ATS action. perpetrator. respect to the presumption against extraterritoriality, it wouldn't matter if it is a U.S. perpetrator or not. And it shows exactly why the presumption can't apply because it would undermine the very purposes of the statute in the best available evidence that we have I would like to give a hypothetical that I think reveals why the U.S. Government position should not be accepted. Suppose there is -- there is an Iranian corporation that secretly supplies poison gas to the JUSTICE GINSBURG: There was also a U.S. MR. HOFFMAN: Well, that's true, but with about what it meant in the era. Official current Syrian regime in order to kill tens of thousands of Kurdish citizens. And suppose after the Assad regime is overthrown, those -- the documents revealing that poison gas transfer to the Syrian regime was made public and that Iranian corporation does business in the United States, asylum seekers who were driven out by the poison gas attacks are in the United States, maybe living in the same communities as the plaintiffs in our case, having gotten asylum in this case. Would it be the case that the Alien Tort Statute should not apply to a claim of aiding and abetting the Assad regime and murdering tens of thousands of its people? It is the modern day example of I.G. Farben. Is it the case that a modern day I.G. Farben would be exempt from the Alien Tort aiding and abetting in international law. It has been accepted by the lower courts. The lower courts have uniformly rejected the arguments that have been made by Respondents in this case. And I would say that the Sosa framework is -- should be given a chance to work. This Court dealt with these issues eight years ago. It set up a historical paradigm test based on many of the concerns that have been expressed here, and there are alternative doctrines that can be applied to deal with Statute? There is a clear, well-established doctrine of these concerns. Political question, active state, Official lower court --hypothetical? MR. HOFFMAN: One of the problems that -- international comity, forum non conveniens, personal jurisdiction, those have not really been litigated. Whether they have been waived or not is something that the lower courts can deal with. Whether they apply the JUSTICE GINSBURG: Given the court's recent decisions on personal jurisdiction, and I have in mind particularly the Goodyear Tire case, is there personal jurisdiction in this case or in the case of your that we would have, Justice Ginsburg, in answering that question is that there is no record about the contacts between these defendants and -- and the jurisdiction in litigated was dealt on a factual record that went back to and . So there is no record here about personal jurisdiction because it hasn't been asserted. waived personal jurisdiction, then presumably the lower courts would apply the tests that this Court has -- has established or in the decisions. And the same would be true of forum non conveniens or any of the other defenses. They have raised other defenses in this case that have not been fully litigated. So -- so my . The Wiwa case, for example, where it was Now if the defendants have not in fact Official The Alien Tort Statute as was applied to basic position is that the Sosa framework actually is -- works. It has actually weeded out cases. These alternative doctrines have weeded out cases, but the Court should not accept the categorical positions asserted by either of the Respondents, which are the broadest categorical positions even rejected by the Government, or the Government's modified categorical position. Those kinds of issues can be dealt with within well-established doctrines where lower courts have a body of jurisprudence that they can use to do this. human rights cases from Filartiga on is part of a trend in the world today. The trend in the world today is corporations that violate these kinds of norms. That's the trend. In fact, the United States has been the leader in that. Our Government has proclaimed our leadership position to U.N. bodies and around the world. Kingdom and Netherlands don't think so. MR. HOFFMAN: Well, the United Kingdom and Netherlands have obviously asserted this position. But the Netherlands have asserted that position while at the towards universal justice for people that -- and CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, the United same time days after the -- the argument in Official JUSTICE SCALIA: I would rather listen to the Dutch Government than one, one Dutch judge, frankly. JUSTICE SCALIA: It may have been wrong. MR. HOFFMAN: Well, it may have been but February a Dutch court gave damages to a Palestinian doctor for wrongful imprisonment and torture that occurred in Libya against two Libyan defendants that were not even present in the courtroom. actually it seems perfectly consistent with Dutch law, it is consistent with the exercise of universal jurisdiction in many pieces of legislation -- MR. HOFFMAN: Well, the Dutch Government, though, and one of the significant pieces in this case is that the Nigerian Government doesn't have a position on this case any longer. The United States Government has never asked for this case to be dismissed on foreign policy grounds. The United Kingdom and the Dutch Government have never asked for this case to be -- to be invalidated on foreign policy grounds. They have stated Statute should mean. And if you look at the European Union brief, of which the United Kingdom and Dutch are members, the European Union says there is no issue about universal jurisdiction, there is no issue about civil jurisdiction that falls within universal jurisdiction. their position about what they think the Alien Tort Official exhaustion and in the other there wasn't. MR. HOFFMAN: I think that that's probably JUSTICE KAGAN: And isn't that really the way to reconcile the Dutch positions? The Dutch are Their only argument is that if you accept that, you should accept international opposition and exhaustion of local remedies. objecting because they think they have a fair forum, but when the judges were faced with a case arising from Libya, they thought that there was no fair forum there. And that's the difference, that in one case there was what the basis of the Dutch position. Our position, though, is that this -- the framework that this Court established in Sosa to -- to take the pirates of the th century and deal with the Alien Tort Statute with the torturers and those who commit genocide in the st century was correct, and that doesn't need a radical re-evaluation as suggested by the Respondents and the United States. above-entitled matter was submitted.) If there are no further questions, I'd -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, Counsel. The case is submitted. (Whereupon, at : a.m., the case in the A abandoned : abetted : : :, abetting : :, : :, : : abettor : ability : able : : above-entitled : : abroad : : : : : : actions : :, : active : activity : actor : acts : : : :, : : : : ad : add : additional : address : :,, :, actual :, Al :, : OfficialOfficial ahead : aid : aided : : Americans : :, : :, aider : aiding : :, : :, : : : amici : amicus : : : : analysis : announced : alien : : anomaly : :, : : :, answer : : : :,,,, : : : :, : : : : : : : : : :, : :, : : : : : apply : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : :, applying : : : : appreciate : approach : appropriate appropriateness : : answering : approval : area : : : :, : : : antecedents : anybody : areas : apartheid : argue : apparently absence :, addressed : absent : absolutely : adjudicate : : :, acceded : : adjudicated : aliens : : : : administration Alito : :, :, : : :, : : :, : : : : accept : : :, administrative : :, adopt : : accepted : : : access : accessory : accused : acknowledge adopted : : : alleged : : : : : alternative : : : affirmed : allowed : act : : allowing : : : :, : affirmative : allows : acted : : : acting : action : : afford : ambassador Africa : : : : : :, : African : : :,, aftermath : : : : :, ago : : : : agree : : ambassadors : :, : : : : : : : : : : : :, agreed : American : adopts : advice : advised : advocating appeal :, : : allegation : appeals : APPEARAN... : :, : appears : :, : Appendix : apples :, applicable : application arguing : argument : :,,, : : : : :,, :, : : : : : : arguments : : : : arising : asked :, : :, arises : :,,, : : :, : : : applied : : : :, : : : applies :, : : asking : : : : aspect : Assad :, assailant : :, : assault : assaults : assert : asserted : :,, assess : assume :, : : : assumed : assuming : : : asylum : : : :, atrocities : ATS : :, :, : :, : :, : : : :,,, : : :, : : : attack : : attacked : : :,, : attacker : attacks : : :, : attorney : : : Australia : authority : authorization : availability : available : : :, : avenues : avoid : : : : avoiding : : a.m : : : B:B : : : back : : :, : :background:bad :balance ::BARINEM :based : : :basic :basically :: :basis : : :began :beginning ::behalf :,,:,, : : ::belief :believe : : : :: :: :believed ::,believes :,belong :best : : better : : : big : Blackstone Official : bodies : body : : : Bolchos : borders : : borrow : Bradford : : : : : Breyer :, :,, :,, :,,, :,, : :,,, : :,, : : bridge : brief : : : : : : : : : : Briefly : briefs : bring : : : : bringing : Britain : : British : broad : broadest : brought :, : Brujaj : bulldozers : business : CC : : cahoots :California :called :candidly : canon : capture : care : carried : case :, : :, :, :,, : : :, : : : :, :,,, :,, : : : : :, : : :, : : : : :,, :,,, :,, : :, :,, : :,, :, : :,,, :,,, :,,, cases : : : : : : : : : :, : :, :,, categorical : : :,, categories : :, category : : : Caterpillar : cause : : : :, : : : : : causes : : : century : : cert : certain :,: : certainly : : : : certify : chance : : change : changed : Chief :, : :, : : :,:, : : : : : :,,,: : Circuit : : : cite : citizen : : :,: :,:,citizens : : : : City : civil :,,: : :, : : :,: civilized : claim :,: : : : : claims : : Official : :,, :, : company : : :, comparable : : competing : complaint : complications compromised : : concede : concern : concerned : concerns : : considered : consistent : : :, constable : constitutes : contacts : contemplated : : contemplating : contend : contested : class : clear : : : : : : : :, : clearly : : : : clients : closely : Cohen : colony : come : :, : : comes : : comity : commenced : : : Commission : commit : commitment commitments : : commits : committed : common : : :, : :, :, : :, : :, : : : : Commonwealth communities : : companies : : companion : : : : : : country : : :, : : : : : : : :, : course : : :, : : : crossed :, curiae : : : current : : : customary : cut : D D : damages : : : dealt : : : : : : : decided : : de : deal : : court :, : :, : : : :, :,, : dangers : : :, Darrell : : :, day :, :, :, days : : :, :, : : : : : : :, : : : : : decide :,, :,,, : : : :, : : : courtroom : decides : courts :, :,,, : : : : : : :, : :,, : : :, : : : court's : covered : : :, : : :, : : credibility : defense :, : deemed : defendant : deciding : decision : : : : : : : : : defendants : decisions : deciders : :, :, : criminal : defenses : : :, context : contingent conduct : : :, :, :, : conveniens : : :, :, : :, : :, : :, conducts : conflict :,, convention :, : Congress : : :, : : : : : :,, : : : :,, : : :, : : congressional : : : : connection : : : : :, : :, : :, : : consequences : : consider : : considerably : corporation : : : : :, : :,, :, : :, : : : corporations : : : : correct : : : : correctly : Corrie : counsel : : : : countervailing : countries : : : : : : : : direct : : :, defer : deference : directed : direction : directly : : : defined : definitively : :, : : deleterious : disagree : democracy-fo... disavowing : : denial : Department :, discussed : discussion : :, : : : dismiss : :,, : :, dismissed : : : : :, disputes : distinction depend : :, : depends : : : Official E E : :, earlier : effect : : effects : eight : : either : : :, : enacted : enacting : enclaves : enemy : enforce : :, enforcing : : : engines : England : English : : : ensuring : entering : entertain : : entire : entirely : :, : : entitled : equivalent :, era : :, : : Erie :, eroded : ESQ :,, :,,, essentially : established : : ESTHER : ET :, EU : European : : : :, events :, : : evidence : : evident : exactly : : :: ::example :: :: :exception :exceptions:exclude :Excuse :,exempt :exercise :exhaust :::exhausted :exhaustion ::,,:,,:,,:, : :,exist : : existence :existing ::exists :explain :explicitly :exposure :expressed :extend :extension :extradition:,,,: :,extraterritorial:,,,:, : : ::,extraterritori... : ::, : :Exxon :Ffaced : : fact :, : : :: :: :: :: :: :facts : : factual ::failure :fair : :, :,fairly :fall : : falls :familiar :Fanny :far : : Farben :,farther :favor :fear :,features :February :Federal :: :,: :,:, : :,,,:, : : ::, : : :: ::fee :, :, deported : deserve : design : desire : destroy : destroying : determinant : : determine : determined : device : dictator : difference : : : : : :,, : district : : : : : doctor : doctrine : :, : : : : : doctrines : : : : : :, doctrine's : documents : Doe : domestic : : DONALD : : : differences : : different : : : : : :, : :,, : : doubt : DR : driven : Dutch : : : : : : :,,, :,, :,, diplomatic : D.C :, Official governed : hoc : going :, : : good :, Goodyear : :, G : forum : : gas : :, : : : general : :, : : : :,,, gotten : :, : : : : :, : :,, government :, : : :, :, : : : forums : : : :,, forward : : :, :,,, :,,, : :, : : : :, : :, : :,,, :,, :, : : :, : governments :, : :,, :, : generally : : : : : : found : : grammatically Government's : : : historical : history :, : : : Hitler : Hoffman : :, :,, : :,, : :,, :,, : :,, :, : :,, :, : :,, :,,, : :, :, : : :, : :, :, : : :, :,, :, : : : :,, : : : :,: hold : home : : homeland : Honor : : : : : : : : : : hostilities : human :,:, : : : HUSBAND : hypothetical: : : : : : : field : figuring : Filartiga : :,,, : : :,, : : :,, :,, : :,,, :,,, : :, : Filartiga's : filed : find : finding : first : : : : : fix : fled : fleet : follow : : : foreclose : foregoing : : foundation : founders : :, : founding : :, : frames : framework : : : France : : frankly : Freetown : French :, General's : grant : granted : genocide : Ginsburg : ground : :, : : grounds :, : :, :, :, :, guard : :, : :,, : : : :,, :,, : : :, : :happened :happen :HGinsburg's : : : : ::,,: :,harbored :harboring :hear :heard : : :hiding :high : : : : : : :,:, : highest :hiring :historians :foreign : :,,, : : :,,, : : :, : :, : :, : : : :,, : Frenchman : : : :, friction : : :, : : : :, : : : :, :, :, : :, :, : : : : further : : foreign-cubed :, : foreign-flagged futile : G : : : give : : : full : fully : fundamental : : : given : glad : go : :, : : : : : : goes : : : Official : : : : I ICC : identical : ignored : Iles : imagines : immunity : implemented implementing : : : : important : imported : imprisonment : incident : : : : :, incidents : including : incrementally : : indication : individual : INDIVIDUA... : : inform : injury :, :, instance : intend : intent : interest : : interested : interests : :, : :, :,, :, interference : interferes : interlocutory :, international :, :, :,,, : : : : : :,, : :, : : : : :, : : : : : : : : interpreted : interpreting : intervening : invalidated : invoked : involve : involved : : :, involves : : involving : Iranian : : issue : : : : : :, issues : : : I.G :, JJoint : JR : : : judge : judges : : : judge-made : : judgment : : : judgments : : judicial : juris : jurisdiction :,, : :,, :, :, :, : : :, : : :, : :,,, : :, : :,, :,, :,,, jurisdictions : jurisprudence : justice : : :, :,, :, : :, :, :, :, :, :, :,, :,,, :,,, : :, :,,, :,,, :, : :,,:,,,:, : :, : :, : : :,:,, : :, :, :, :, :, : : :,Kennedy'skinds : : kill : kind : : : : : :,, : : :, : :,,: :,,, :,,, :,,, : : :,,, : :, :, : : :,, key : : :,, :, : :,, :,,, :, : :, : : :, Kingdom : :, : :,,, : :, :, : Kiobel :, : :,,, know : : : : : :, : : :,,, :, : :,,, : : :,,, : : : :, : :,:, : :,, : : :,,,, known : : :, Kurdish : :, : : :,Justice's : justification: : :, : : L: justified : KKAGAN : : : : : : : : Kagan's : KATHLEEN : : : Kennedy :, : :, : : : L : :, : :lack :land :LATE :law :,,: :,,:, : : :,,: :,: :,: :,:,,,:,,:,,,,:,, Official : : : local :,, live : living : : : :,, : :, : : : : : : : : :, :,, :, : : : :,,, London :, Meaning : :, : : :, :, : : : :, : :, : : : : : : long : meaningful longer : : : look : : means : : : meant : members : mention : : : mentioned looked : looking : looks : : : laws :, lays : leader : leadership : : : : Los : mercenary : lost : lot : miles : lower :, mind : : : :,, : M leaving : led : M : : : legal : magnified : legislation : Leone : : maintain : making : letter : : : liability : :, : libraries : Libya : : Libyan : light : limit : limitations : limited : : limiting : limits : listen : : : : listened : litigate : litigated : :, : :, litigation : mankind : Marbois : :, : : Marcos : : : : : :, match : materials :, matter : : : : : : : matters : mean : : :, : :,, : : mini : minimize : minimum : minutes : Missing : modern : : modified : moment : Monday : motion : : :, mouth : Moxon : multiple : murdering : NN :, : narrow : : narrower : nation : : national :, :, nations : : :, : : : :, : : :, Nation's : : :,, :, : : : :, : : : : note : necessarily : number :, necessity : :, need : : :, : : : : neither : Netherlands :, : : :, : :, : never : : : : :, new :, :, : : nexus :, : :, :, : Nigeria :, : : : : Nigerian : : : : non : : :,, :,, : : nonavailability: norm : :, : : : :, norms : : : :, : :,, : OO : : object : objected : objecting : objections : objective : obtained : obvious : obviously :: ::occurred : : :,: : : :occurs : :October : offenders :offense ::,offer :,office :offshore : Oh : : okay : : : :,:, : :,ones :on/off :open : : operation :opinion : opposite :: : : : :, : : proceeding : proceedings : potential : power : : precedent : project : proclaimed : places : : plaintiff : : plaintiffs : : :, : : : please : : : : : :, precedents : precise : predecessors :, : plundering : prescriptive plus : point : : : : : : : : : points : presence : present : presented : preserved : presumably : : projecting : proper : : : properly : : : proposition : protect : : : Protection : : : : :, poison : presumption protects : protest : : :, provide : : :, : : : : :, : : :, provides : provided : policy : : : :, political :, providing : :,, :,, : pre-congressi... provisions : prudence : : public : punish : punitive : principle : :, : :, : posed : position :, pretty : : : : principles : prior : private : :, :,, : : : :, : : :,, :, :, probably : : : : : : : : :,,, : :, :, problem : : : : opposition : PAUL : : oral : :,, : : : Pennsylvania order : : : : people : : ordinary : ought :, perfectly : period : overcome : permit : : : : override : overrule : : overthrown : overturn : overturned :, P : perpetrator :,, : : : : :, person : personal :, : : : :, :, : :,,, : persuasive Petitioners : P : package : page : : pages : Palestinian : : :, : Palmer : : : paradigm : Petroleum : :, : paradigms Philadelphia : : :, Paraguay : pieces :, Paraguayan pillaging : :, : piloted : piracy : : part : : : : : : : : : particular : : : : particularly : parties : pass : : passed : : :, : :, : :, : : pirate :, : pirates : :, : :,, : : Official : : : placed : :,, : pure : purport : purpose :,: : purposes : : put : Qqualifications:qualifies :quarrel :question :,positions : problems : :, : place : : possibility : : : : : : possible : : : procedural : proceed : : : : : received : reciprocal : reserve : resident : reciprocity respect : : : :, : : : : recognize : recognized : : :, : :, : : :,, : : : : :, :, : :, : :, : :, : :, reconcile : record : :,,, : : :,, :, : redress : : referring : recognizing : : respectfully : : Respondents :, :, :, : : : : : : : refuge : : responsibility :, regardless : restatement regime :,, : Official :, : : : : :, : : role : round : Royal : : rule : : :,, : : :, : : rules : : : : runs : SS : : safe :safeguard :safeguards :salient : : satisfy ::saying :: ::says :, : : :: ::Scalia :,:, : : :,:,,:, : :, : :,,:,,: :,Scalia's :scrutiny :seas : : : : : : :,:, : Second : : : : : secretly : section : securities : see : : : : seek : : : : : seekers : seeking : : seeks : send :, sense : sent : serious : set : : shake : Shell : shifting : shows : Sierra : : sign : signed : : significant: similar :,simple :,:,simply : : single :,,situation : : : : : :,sky : slave : soil : : : :,: Solicitor : : questions : : : quite :, quotes : R R : race : radical : raised :, : : : : : : raises : ratified :, reached : read :, : : : : really : : : : : : : reason :, : : : : reasoning : : reasons : : REBUTTAL : : : rejected :, : : : related : relations : : : : : : reliance : relief : : : rem : remaining : remedial : : : remedies :, :, : : : : : : : remedy : : : remember : requirement :, : : :, result :, : return : revealing : reveals : reverse : : : revival : re-evaluation : rid :, right : : :, :, :,, :, : : : : : : : rights :, : : : : : risk :, :, River : ROBERTS : : : Official : : : :, :,, :, : :,,, :, : : :, : : : : : : : : : :, : : : step : stimulated : stimulating : strength : stress : strongly : structured : stuff : subject : : : subjecting : suggest : suggested : : suggesting : suggests : suing : : : : suit :, : : : : Sullivan : : :,, :, : : :, :, : :, : : :, :, : : : :, : : :, :,,, :, : : :, :, : : :, : : supplies : supporting : : : : TT :,take :,: :: : taken : : : takes :talked : talking :: : :,,talks : Tasmania : tell : telling :tells : tens :, term : territorial : territorialityterritory :::test : : tests :Thank :, :, : then-extant : theoretically : theory : : ::thing : : : :things :: :,,think :,, :, : : :,,,: ::, : : :,: :,: sorry : : sort :, : : Sosa : : :, :, : :, :, : : :, :,,, :, : : : : : Sotomayor : :, :, : : :, :, : : :, :,, :,, :,, :,, Sotomayor's : sounds : South :, sovereign : : : : :, sovereigns : : sovereign's : speak :, : : speaking : : : speaks : specific :, : :, specifically : spoke : : standpoint : : started : state : : : :, :, :, : : :,,,, : : :,, :, : stated : : stateless : statement : : states :,, : : : :,, : : :, :, :, :, : : : :,, : : :, : :, : :, : :, : : :, : : :,, : :, : : :, : : :, : :, :,, :, :, : : :,,, :, : : : : : state's : solicitors : soon : : stamp : standards : statute : : : : : submit : submitted : supplemental super : :, subsidiary : substantial :, suppose :, : : : : : : substantive : :, : successors : sue :, supposed : sued : :, Supreme :, :,, : : : sues : sufficient : : sufficiently sure : : : : switch : Switzerland : Syrian :, systems : Official undermine : : : : : :, undermining : : : : : : :,, unusual : : :, : viewed : views : upset :, : understand : urge : : : : : : : :, understanding U.N : use : : U.K : : today's :, TVPA : : : : : :, :, :, : :,, : : :, : : : : : : : :,,, :, :, : :, : :, : :, :,,, : : : : : : :, thinking : third : : : thought :, : : thousands : : three : : ties : time : : : : : : : : : : : Tire : today : : :, : : tort : : : :, :, : : :,, :, : :,,, :,,, tortfeasor : torts : torture :, : :, :, : : : :,, :,,,, : : : understood : uniformly : Union : : :, : : : : :, treaties : tribunals : torturer : trend :, treaty :, : :,, : : torturers : trader : transfer : transitory : United :,, : : : :,, : : :,, : :, :, :, :, : : :,, :, : :,, :, : :,, : :, : : :,,, :,, : :, :, : :, : : :, : :, :,, : :,,, :, : : :, : :, : : two : : universal : : : : :, : : :, : : : truth : try : : turns : trouble : true :, unclear : typical : tried : : : : U vindicate : violate : violated : : : violating : violation :, : :,, : : : : violations : : : : : :, violator : : U.S : :, :, :, : :, : : : : : : : :, : : :, : :,, : :, : : :,, Wwait :waive :v : : :, waived :,V : : :, :,walk ::, : : ::want :variation : walking :Venice : Verrilli : : :,,,, :,,, :,,, wanted :wants ::,, :, :, : :, war :,,:,, Washington:,, :,,, :, wasn't ::,::versus : vessel :, victim : :,, : : victims : view : : waters :,:way : : : ::, : : :: ways : weeded :, weighing : : welfare : well-established : : : went : : weren't : We'll : we're : : : : : :, :,, we've :, : : wish : Wiwa :, : : words : work : :, : working : works : world :, : : :, : : :, : worse : : : worst : wouldn't : : : : : wrong :, : :, :,, : : wrongful : wrongly : X x :, Official Y Yeah : : years : : York :, :, : - : : : : : : : : : : : :, : : : : :, : : : : th : : : : : : : : st : : : : : : : 