Official IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - xCREDIT SUISSE SECURITIES (USA) :LLC, ET AL., : Petitioners : No. - v. :VANESSA SIMMONDS :- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x Washington, D.C. Tuesday, November , The above-entitled matter came on for oralargument before the Supreme Court of the United Statesat : a.m.APPEARANCES:CHRISTOPHER LANDAU, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; for Petitioners.JEFFREY B. WALL, ESQ., Assistant to the Solicitor General, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; for the United States, as amicus curiae.JEFFREY I. TILDEN, ESQ., Seattle, Washington; for Respondent. Official C O N T E N T SORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGECHRISTOPHER LANDAU, ESQ. On behalf of the Petitioners ORAL ARGUMENT OFJEFFREY B. WALL, ESQ. On behalf the United States, as amicus curiae ORAL ARGUMENT OFJEFFREY I. TILDEN, ESQ. On behalf of the Respondent REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OFCHRISTOPHER LANDAU, ESQ. On behalf of the Petitioners Official P R O C E E D I N G S (: a.m.) JUSTICE SCALIA: We'll hear argument next inCase Number -, Credit Suisse Securities v.Simmonds. Mr. Landau, you may proceed. ORAL ARGUMENT OF CHRISTOPHER LANDAU ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS MR. LANDAU: Justice Scalia, and may itplease the Court: In section (b) of the Exchange Act,Congress created a cause of action to allow securitiesissuers to recover short-swing profits from certaincovered persons, but specified that a lawsuit must bebrought years after the date the short-swing profitwas realized. The statute doesn't say years after thedate the defendants filed a section (a) report, as theNinth Circuit and Respondents would like to have it.Nor does the statute say years after the date theplaintiff discovers the short-swing transaction, as theGovernment would like to rewrite it. I'd like to make two basic points heretoday: First, as this Court recognized in Lampf, the-year time limit in section (b) is best read as aperiod of repose that can't be extended at all; and, Officialsecond, even if section (b)'s -year time limit couldbe extended, the doctrine of equitable tolling wouldn'tapply to extend the time limit here, where the plaintiffdidn't act diligently to bring a claim and didn't provethat any extraordinary circumstances precluded her fromfiling. The upshot of these two points is that thisCourt should reverse the Ninth Circuit's decision andremand the case with directions to dismiss the complaintas untimely. JUSTICE GINSBURG: On your first -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Counsel, would -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: On your first point, youcite Lampf, but Lampf had two limits. So, it said --what was it, year from whatever, from discovery. Andthen it set an outer limit at years, and it was thesame thing in Merck. Here we just say -- it just haswhat seems to me a plain vanilla statute of limitationsthat is traditionally subject to waiver, equitabletolling. We don't have that special kind of statutethat gives you one limit and then sets a further limitthat will be the outer limit. MR. LANDAU: Your Honor, with respect, it'scertainly true that a two-pronged time limit underscoresthat the outer prong is a period of repose, but there'scertainly no magic words that Congress has to use. It Officialdoesn't have to use a two-pronged time limit toestablish the outer limit as a period of repose. Infact, that's really the lesson of this Court's decisionin TRW and in Beggerly and Brockamp, that the -- thebackground or the default rule, the background rule thatequitable tolling applies, isn't some kind -- is justthat. It's a background rule. And Congress, in thetext or structure -- JUSTICE KAGAN: But what takes you out ofthat background rule in this case? You don't have thetwo-pronged structure, which really did, as JusticeGinsburg said, drive the analysis when we -- when wetalked about those provisions. So, that's not there.So, what takes you out of the default position, which isequitable tolling applies? MR. LANDAU: Sure, Your Honor. I think -- JUSTICE KAGAN: On the statute oflimitations -- MR. LANDAU: The key point, Your Honor, isthat this Congress in the Exchange Act wascarefully attuned to the issue of time limits.Congress -- there was -- there was a lot of discussionof this. This is a not a situation where Congressestablished a liability and just didn't focus on thisissue, as often happens, and left it to background Officialstatute of limitations provisions or other backgroundrules. Congress thought long and hard about this. With respect to the two-prong provisions,those are the fraud provisions that were set at an outerlimit of years. And then they actually created adiscovery rule that said we don't even want people towait the whole years; if they've discovered the factsunderlying their claim, we want them to bring it withina year. So, they used discovery to shorten the time,not to extend it. JUSTICE KAGAN: Right. But I guess I'mstill not understanding why, if you look at thisprovision, you would think of this as anything otherthan an ordinary statute of limitations. What is itabout this provision -- or, I don't mean to -- to -- Imean, you can -- you can make structural arguments. But-- but, you know, what factors do you think in thisprovision makes it a statute of repose? MR. LANDAU: Two things, Your Honor. First,I'd like to just finish on the structural point; and wealso have a textual argument. With respect to the structure, this, let'snot forget, was enacted at the same time and as part ofthe same statute as these other provisions that did usediscovery provisions to shorten the time limit. What OfficialCongress did with respect to (b), instead of havingthe -year outer limit plus a safety valve that wouldmake you have to sue even sooner, Congress has broughtin the outer limit. The -- instead of years as in thetwo-prong provisions, said you've got to sue within years. Having said you've got to sue within years,they decided you didn't need that safety valveprovision. But it would be very -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: The problem is it readslike dozens of statutes of limitations. It says no suitmore than years and that -- I think that the generalunderstanding is that that limitation, that kind oflimitation -- there is a presumption that it is subjectto equitable tolling, forfeiture, waiver. And why, ifthis one doesn't use any different words, why should -- MR. LANDAU: Two things, Your Honor. Thislegislation -- again, this section is not astand-alone statute. It was enacted as part of the 'Act. And so, I think you -- the same Congress that seta hard outer limit of repose for fraud claims in section(e) and (c) wouldn't have wanted with respect to thisprophylactic provision that it is, by definition, bothunder- and over-inclusive. It may be -- JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, I could turn theargument around on you. Congress surely knew how to Officialwrite a statute of repose because it did it in thisstatute, but it didn't do it with respect to these kindsof violations. This statute of limitations, I'm goingto call it, reads very differently from the two-prongedpositions that we've interpreted in the past. MR. LANDAU: Again, Your Honor, I think onepoint, just to respond to that and as well to JusticeGinsburg's question, the -- the typical textual hook fora statute of repose is that it's keyed off of thedefendant's conduct -- years after the defendant doesX, Y, or Z. That is -- as we quoted Black's LawDictionary for this proposition in our brief. TheSeventh Circuit, Justice Posner, had an opinion justlast week underscoring this point, the Hy-Vee case, thatsaid the typical statute of limitations actually says years after the cause of action accrued or after theplaintiff discovered, but when you're -- when -- again,we don't think -- in this case, we are not relyingsolely on the textual thing, but in terms of numbers ofguideposts, this is not your classic statute oflimitation. If you actually start looking at them, alot of them key off of accrual. JUSTICE ALITO: Is that -- is that true? Ifwe were to look at all the statutes of limitations inthe -- in the U.S. Code, we would find that they are Officialgenerally or exclusively drafted like section , thegeneral statute of limitations provisions, and aregeared to or are triggered by the accrual of the actionrather than some event? MR. LANDAU: Your Honor, I think we can'tsay that there is a bright-line rule. Congress --again, I think the most we can say is that the classicformulation of a statute of repose is to key a timelimit off of the defendant's conduct as opposed to theaccrual. And, again -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, the problem isthat the injury here is the defendant's conduct, meaningif the nature of the claim, as is here, that someone hasreceived a profit they're not entitled to, then theinjury is the same. The profit belonged to theshareholders or the corporation, not to the insider.So -- MR. LANDAU: Clearly to the -- yes. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- textually the natureof the claim here is the very injury, plaintiff'sinjury. MR. LANDAU: Well, Your Honor, again, one ofthe things about this statute that's kind of odd, it's aprophylactic statute that doesn't even require anyinjury. I mean, it just says there has got to be Officialdisgorgement to the corporation. It's a little bitdifferent -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, disgorgement isinjury, meaning that it's something that -- that you'retaking away from someone else. MR. LANDAU: But it's taking it away fromthe defendant. It doesn't actually mean that actuallysomebody else would have earned that money. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Tell me what logic thereis in reading this as a statute of repose, other thanyour argument about finality and its importance. MR. LANDAU: I think -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: If we take youradversary's position that this statute of limitationswas geared under an understanding that an insider wouldin fact make the requirements -- would file thestatements required by (a), then it makes absolutesense to think of it as a statute of repose. But ifCongress understood that some wouldn't do the statutoryrequirement and file in a timely manner, why wouldn'tequitable tolling be a more appropriate way to look atthis? MR. LANDAU: I think the key point, YourHonor, is to look at the Exchange Act as a whole,which includes not only this provision but also Officialout-and-out-fraud provisions that are for intentional,real hard-core insider trading. That would be sections(e) and (c). There is no question that Congressprovided a period of repose for those, the outer limit. And then that raises the question thatJustice Ginsburg started with, which is, do you have tohave a two-prong limit? And the answer to that is no,you don't -- there's no magic words, as TRW, Beggerly,and Brockamp show us. You just have to try to makesense of the statute as a whole. And Congress would nothave wanted to give repose to intentional fraudsters butnot give repose to a defendant in a purely prophylacticsection (b) action. I think that's the fundamentalthing when you just step back and look at this. JUSTICE GINSBURG: Well, it's -- it's notsimply a prophylactic. I mean, there's an objectivethat (a) expresses; that is, Congress wanted thesetrades to be reported and to have the form filed, Form filed. So, it's a -- it's a disclosure-forcingprovision, (a) is. Then, why would Congress mean forit to operate to immunize a defendant who has not madethat filing and who has concealed what was supposed tobe reported in -- under (a)? MR. LANDAU: Your Honor, for the same reasonthat Congress would have afforded repose even to Officialout-and-out fraudsters. Again, Congress was creatingvast new liability here. A fraudster by definition, assomebody who would be liable under (c) or (e), hasdone kind of to conceal it. Yet, Congress stillbelieved, because it was creating this vast newliability -- JUSTICE KAGAN: Judge Posner, Mr. Landau,has a theory for why it is that fraud is treateddifferently from the (b) offenses, and it's that it'smuch more important to prevent strategic behaviorinvolving timing in fraud suits -- the stock price goesup, the stock price goes down -- whereas, in thesesuits, damages are fixed. It doesn't really matterwhere you bring them. So, it's not nearly as importantto set a clear limit. MR. LANDAU: Well, like many of JudgePosner's theories, it's -- it's a very clever theory,but in a sense, it misses the fundamental truth thatwhen Congress is granting repose, it is trying to allowpeople to turn the page on something in their past. Theidea that Congress would grant repose to more culpablepeople but not to less culpable people -- JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, you have one theory,which -- which deals with culpability; and he hasanother theory, which deals with strategic behavior. OfficialAnd I don't know how to pick between those two theories,to tell you the truth. The text doesn't suggest whichone Congress was thinking about. And that puts me back,and let's look at this provision, and this provisionlooks like an ordinary vanilla statute of limitations. MR. LANDAU: Well, again, the only thingI'll say on repose before -- and I'd like to turnthen -- because we certainly don't need repose to winthis case, and -- and while we think it is bestcharacterized, this Court in Lampf had occasion to lookat all of the various time limits and see how they allworked together. And this Court characterized section(b) as a statute of repose. To be sure, that was dicta because Lampf,itself was not a (b) case. But it was -- it was -- itwas a statement or it was a recognition that came afterlooking at all of these, and it would be strange now tosay that, in fact, the (b) time period ispotentially -- the Court said it was more restrictive,and both the majority and Justice Kennedy in dissentagreed that it was a statute of repose. JUSTICE SCALIA: Of course, Lampf was adisaster, wasn't it? Congress had to try to patch upwhat we had done. MR. LANDAU: Absolutely not, Your Honor. Official (Laughter.) MR. LANDAU: Lampf stands as a landmark.But -- but let me make clear, Your Honor. Our positionhere today doesn't depend on this being a statute ofrepose, because even if this -year time limit -- JUSTICE ALITO: Before you turn away fromthe statute of repose, could I just ask you one morequestion -- MR. LANDAU: Absolutely. JUSTICE ALITO: -- on -- on that? If -- if(a) reports are not filed, how likely is it that apotential (b) plaintiff will find out within the-year period that there were these trades? MR. LANDAU: Your Honor, they can find outin many ways, the same ways that any other securitiesplaintiff, including a fraud securities plaintiff, canfind out. There are corporate books and records thatcan be examined. There are other SEC filings and SECinvestigations. There's other litigation. This couldcome up in an estate discovery -- estate or divorceproceedings. There are whistle blowers, confidentialinformers, brokers, counterparts -- counterparties. Again, if Congress had wanted the section(a) disclosure to be the trigger under section (b),it could have done so. And, in fact, as we noted in our Officialbrief, there was an early draft in the House thatcreated a two-prong provision and established for -- youknow, it's an outer limit of years and an inner limitof months after the (a) disclosure. JUSTICE ALITO: What would -- what are theother filings that might disclose this? MR. LANDAU: Well, Your Honor, again,like -- this case is a good example. In this very case,the contradiction at the heart of the plaintiff's caseis that they say, well, it can't possibly be discoveredwithout a (a) filing. There was no section (a)filing. To this day, they say the statute of limitationhas not started to run. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Is there a publicdocument that a -- that a shareholder can look at to seewhether an insider has traded within months? MR. LANDAU: Well, Your Honor, there is nota -- there is not a Form , which is a public document.But not every securities filing requires a publicdocument. In -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I didn't ask that. I'mgoing back to Justice Alito's question, which is howeasy is it to find out without the (a)? MR. LANDAU: Well, again, there may be SECfilings. There are -- Official JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: That's a big thing. Ididn't ask maybe. MR. LANDAU: Well, no, there -- there areSEC filings that companies are required to make. Thereare -- again, this is not a -- a -- selling -- buyingand selling shares is not something that can be donealone in the dark of night. You need to have otherpeople involved with you. You need to have brokerscomplicit. You -- it's a large amount of shares. Thecounterparties -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: And so, what's thelikelihood that a broker's going to turn you in? MR. LANDAU: There are whistle blowers.That's the -- that's the -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: That's a very nicething, but what -- how likely is that? MR. LANDAU: Your Honor, brokers have theirown responsibilities. A broker could be held liable asan aider or abettor to a violation. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: How would the brokerknow that the -- that his principal didn't file a formhe was required to? MR. LANDAU: Well, again, the broker may getsuspicious if the -- a broker may actually be checking.If a -- if a -- if a CEO of a corporation is suddenly Officialselling all these things -- again, this is no differentthan the way -- a securities plaintiff in an out-and-outfraud case, and those are brought every day, Your Honor. But, again, I think the point here is that,regardless of whether this is repose, even if you saythat this can be extended, it certainly can't beextended in the way that the Ninth Circuit extended it.And we and the SEC, the Government, agree on this: Thatthe Ninth Circuit adopted this absolute black-letterrule that says it is tolled -- it doesn't even start torun unless and until the section (a) report is filed. JUSTICE GINSBURG: How about the SecondCircuit rule? MR. LANDAU: The Second Circuit rule is moreof a notice approach that says that it -- but, again,Your Honor, the problem with the Second Circuit'sapproach is that it doesn't reflect traditionalbackground norms of equitable tolling. Then, if you sayit's not a statute of repose, then what do you do justto figure out what Congress would have wanted? You sayCongress legislates against the -- the -- the backdropof these kind of equitable doctrines. So, let's look atwhat equitable tolling consists of. This Court in many cases over the years --it's been dealing with equitable tolling since almost Officialthe first days of the Court, well into the th century.In the most recent cases, the Court has made clear, inthe Holland case, for instance, just two terms ago, thatequitable tolling traditionally has two minimumrequirements. First, there has to be diligence on the partof the plaintiff. And in this context that means does areasonable -- did the plaintiff know or would areasonably diligent shareholder have reason to know ofthe claim; and, second, extraordinary circumstances. And so, with respect to the Second Circuit'sdecision in Litzler, Your Honor, that you mentioned, Ithink it departs from traditional equitable tollingin -- in a couple of ways. Most particularly, it limitsit to actual knowledge. It doesn't say "know or shouldhave known," which again is the background rule, as weand the Government agree. The second thing with respect to Litzlerwhere it departs from the background rule is it saysthat it is -- per se gives rise to equitable tolling notto file the section (a) and doesn't include any kindof culpability on the defendant's part. And JudgeJacobs, in footnote of Litzler, dropped a footnotesaying that he would prefer to announce a tolling rulethat was more consonant with, again, background rules of Officialequitable tolling, that said only when the failure tofile the section (a) was unreasonable or -- orintentional, because he would say otherwise you couldhave a purely technical or inadvertent violation thatwould give rise potentially to equitable tolling, and hedidn't think that was right. JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Landau, if we were toagree with you on one or both of those two things,wouldn't the normal course be to remand? And what'syour best argument for why we should decide it? MR. LANDAU: Our best argument, Your Honor,is that the district court in this case already decidedthe very issue here. The district court said it isundisputed, just on the pleadings, that -- that theyknew or should have known. This case is probably the most egregiouskind of case that you can see for this propositionbecause everything here is a replay of the IPOlitigation and even the Billing case that came all theway to this Court. This case was filed just a fewmonths after this Court decided Billing. And inparticular -- they have now -- the Respondents have comeand said, well, what we didn't know here was group, andwe didn't know that the -- the underwriters were in aconspiracy with the issuer insiders, and that was the Officialpiece of the puzzle that we were missing. And -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: We have to accept theplaintiffs' allegations as true. You may well be rightthat they really knew or they should have known. But,at this stage, we can't make that judgment because wehave to accept the plaintiffs' allegations as true. MR. LANDAU: Correct, Your Honor, but youare entitled, in deciding that, to look at their ownpleadings. And there's two important things from theirown pleadings. First, if you look at their complaint,it's -- it alleges lock-up as its theory of group. Itsays that the plaintiffs and the -- the underwriters andthe issuer insiders formed a (a) group because theyhad these lock-up agreements. Well, those lock-upagreements were publicly known as early as theprospectus of these IPOs. So, the -- the lock-upagreement was no secret. Second, they say, well, we -- even though,like, lock-up might have been out there, we didn't knowthere was this underpricing-based conspiracy. And evenassuming they could try and slice and dice it like thataccording to the -- the legal theory, the fact is intheir motion to dismiss in the district court, theycited -- this is docket in the district court, pages Official to -- they go at length about the academicliterature regarding a conspiracy between underwritersand issuer insiders that they say gives legitimacy totheir substantive claim. But that includes lots ofarticles, including a article -- again, wouldbe years before they filed. So, they are relying in their opposition toour motion to dismiss on an article -- there's a lengthyfootnote that says there's a ton of academic research onthis particular theory. So, basically, a remand isunnecessary because the -- the pleaded facts by theplaintiff themselves show this is untimely as a matterof law. I'd like to reserve the balance of my time,if there's no further questions. Thank you. ORAL ARGUMENT OF JEFFREY B. WALL ON BEHALF OF THE UNITED STATES, AS AMICUS CURIAE MR. WALL: Justice Scalia, and may it pleasethe Court: I'd like to start where Justices Ginsburgand Kagan did, because if you picked up this statute, itwould look for all intents and purposes like an ordinarystatute of limitations. And the question then is, howhas Congress rebutted that presumption of equitable Officialtolling either as a matter of text, context, orstructure? And as I understand it, Petitioners have twobasic arguments, both of which are incorrect. The firstis textual. They say, well, it runs from the time ofthe complained-of event. But the reason they can't puttoo much weight on that, Justice Alito, is because ifthey looked through the statutes and the Court's cases,they would come across cases like Exploration Company orDelaware State College, where the statute ran from thetime of the complained-of event, and this Court treatedit as an ordinary statute of limitations subject toequitable tolling; and they'd come across Beggerly,which ran from accrual. And yet, the Court said statuteof repose not subject to equitable tolling. JUSTICE ALITO: Well, if you were drafting astatute of repose, how would you phrase it other thanthe way this is phrased? MR. WALL: I think normally what Congressdoes is it says there should be no jurisdiction after aparticular time, because it's not trying todifferentiate among the application of differentequitable background principles. But there are statutes -- JUSTICE SCALIA: Gee, but we've -- we've Officialsaid that, under our recent jurisprudence anyway, wewould -- we would treat that as a statute oflimitations. And I assume we'd treat it like a normalstatute of limitations subject to tolling. MR. WALL: Justice -- JUSTICE SCALIA: You think whenever --whenever we encounter a -- a statute of limitations thatis -- is phrased in jurisdictional term, there can be notolling? MR. WALL: I think, Justice Scalia, thatwhere you have statutes that say there shall be nojurisdiction after a particular time, this Court hasread them to cut off equitable tolling after that time.But Congress could have written the statute to say thetime limit shall not be tolled. And there are statuteslike that. Now, most of those statutes say there shallbe no tolling except in particular circumstances,because Congress has considered it more finely. Butthey could make the prohibition absolute. And the second argument that I understandPetitioners to have is basically structural. They say,well, look, they borrowed the language from the outerprong of the two-prong limit. JUSTICE ALITO: Before you get to that, doyou have an example of a -- a classic statute of repose Officialthat I could look at to see how they should be phrased,and not one that says that there shall be tolling --there shall not be tolling except in some circumstances,one that just says this is it; no tolling whatsoever? MR. WALL: You mean other than statutes asin Merck and Lampf where there were tiered structures? JUSTICE ALITO: Right. Right. MR. WALL: There -- JUSTICE ALITO: A stand-alone provision. MR. WALL: I think that the statute inBeggerly was an example where the Court said, eventhough it runs from accrual, it incorporates a discoveryrule and it sets a -year limit. And so, textually andcontextually -- I mean, I don't think there is anyclassic formulation. I think that's why Petitionerscan't point you to anything, because the courts alwayslook to all the indicia of statutory meaning: text,context, and structure. So, the same language cancreate a statute of limitations or repose. So, in Lampf and Merck, if those statuteshadn't had a two-tiered structure, just the language ofthe outer prong as the statute alone, I think the Courtwould have treated it as a statute of limitations. TheCourt didn't say in Lampf that language creates astatute of repose, full stop. It drew a structural Officialinference by looking at both of the prongs and comparingthem to each other. So, when Petitioners say, whoa, but theyborrowed the language of the outer limit and we knowthat's repose, well, we only know it's repose in thetwo-prong provisions because of their structure. Andthis provision doesn't have that structure. So, I don't think I can point you to anyclassic formulation because the same words can be eithera limitation or repose, depending on what else Congressdoes in that statute. JUSTICE SCALIA: I don't -- I think youunderstate the -- the strength of Petitioners' argumentin this regard. It seems to me where you say, you know, years unless the plaintiff knows sooner than that, andthen you say years unless the plaintiff knows earlierthan that, and then you say years -- it seems to methat the implication is years, period. Whether theplaintiff knows earlier, later, doesn't matter. MR. WALL: Justice Scalia, I don't know whatelse to say except that that would overrule ExplorationCompany and Delaware State College. JUSTICE BREYER: That's what we said inMerck. I mean, wasn't Merck just like that? It says acause of action can be or whatever -- may not be Officialbrought -- may be brought not later than the earlier of years after the discovery of the facts or yearsafter the violation. I take it that means years after theviolation. Forget about the discovery of the facts. MR. WALL: Well, that's right, but the --the reason that that language created a period ofrepose -- JUSTICE BREYER: Because they were both -- MR. WALL: -- was because of the structuralinference. I took Justice Scalia's hypothetical to beif the statute just said no suit shall be brought morethan X years after the violation. JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, but what if thosethree provisions had been -- you know, followed eachother immediately? You know, years unless, youknow -- with a cutoff that would make it shorter, and years with a cutoff that would make it shorter, andthen a third one just says years. You think therewould be no implication that the years means years,period? MR. WALL: I think the implication would bethat, in the others, Congress created a period of reposeby using very specific language to do that. And in thethird, it didn't. It wrote it like an ordinary statute Officialof limitations. Now, it could have written itdifferently, Justice Scalia. It could have said no suitshall be brought after X time, which is the ordinarylanguage of statute of limitations, and that time shallnot be tolled. And Congress has done that in otherstatutes. JUSTICE GINSBURG: If you extinguish theclaim -- the statute of limitations doesn't terminatethe claim. It just says you can't get a remedy if yousue too late. But there are statutes that say you haveno claim after X time, and that would certainly be arepose. You have no right anymore after that. MR. WALL: No question. That's certainlytrue. If the Court -- JUSTICE SCALIA: Maybe -- maybe you'd bettergo -- well, go on. I think you'd better go to the otherpoint because I want to know whether you differ from thePetitioner on the second point. As I understand thePetitioner, he does -- he does not think that you reachthe same result if indeed the violation had beennonintentional. Now, do you take that position as well? MR. WALL: No, Justice Scalia. I think thatis the one place in everything Mr. Landau said wherethere is daylight between the Petitioners' position andours. In the Government's view, the traditional Officialequitable rule is the statute is tolled until theplaintiff has actual or constructive notice of the factsunderlying her claim. It doesn't matter whether theconcealment of those facts by the defendant that givesrise to -- JUSTICE KAGAN: But is that right, Mr. Wall?I mean, don't we usually look when we're thinking aboutequitable doctrines as whether the defendant has cleanhands? You know, whether the defendant is culpable ornot seems to matter a good deal when we're thinkingabout considerations of equity. MR. WALL: Absolutely. And I think in manyfraud and concealment cases, where you are not talkingabout a duty of disclosure, either common law orstatutorily, you do have affirmative misconduct. Butit's a different question when Congress has come in andtold the defendants by law what they have to do. Forthe defendant then to breach that statutory duty -- Ithink Congress has already told them what they have todo in this context. JUSTICE KAGAN: But I think Mr. Landau'spoint -- it was a strong part of his brief, I think --was that there was no reason why his clients would havethought that they had a disclosure obligation in thefirst place. So, it wasn't like they were looking at Officialthis disclosure obligation and saying we don't feel likeit. They were saying we're not covered by it. MR. WALL: That just goes to JusticeGinsburg's point, I think, which is that where aplaintiff can sufficiently plead a section (b) case atthe motion to dismiss stage to survive dismissal underIqbal and Twombly, everyone agrees that if you've got a(b) potential violation, you've got a reporting dutyunder (a). You can't have liability for a trade under(b) that you weren't required to report under (a). So, if the plaintiff can sufficiently pleada case at the motion to dismiss stage under (b), bydefinition the plaintiff has sufficiently pleaded thatthe defendant violated a reporting obligation under (a). JUSTICE ALITO: Well, no. Why is that true?Somebody could be a -- an insider without knowing thatthe person was an insider. MR. WALL: That's right. But section (a),except for the criminal sanctions, is a strict liabilityprovision. If you're an insider and you fail to file,you've violated (a). Now, you know, it's a separatequestion on (b), but the -- I think everyone hereagrees that if you have a violation of (b), younecessarily have a violation of (a). You can't beforced to disgorge the profits from a trade you weren't Officialrequired to report. JUSTICE ALITO: No, I understand that, but Ithought the point was -- I thought the question waswhether there is the kind of concealment that wouldinvoke equitable tolling when the concealment is notdone knowingly, when it is not done in -- in knowingbreach of a disclosure obligation. MR. WALL: I think the -- the breach of aduty, a statutory or a common law duty, especially wherethat duty is designed to aid in the enforcement of aprivate right of action, is and has been considered bycourts to be concealment. Without looking at whetherthe fiduciary just accidentally or inadvertently -- JUSTICE BREYER: There are two differentdoctrines, I gather. One is equitable -- equitabletolling. The other is sometimes called equitableestoppel or fraudulent concealment. But -- whatever youcall them, if you take your position, a person whoreally thinks he doesn't have to file and so he doesn'tfile will be liable forever. There will be no statuteof limitations because the plaintiff will never findout. Maybe years later. All right? If you take the opposite position, then youwill prevent plaintiffs in borderline cases frombringing suits because they aren't going to find out Officialthat somebody thinks it's a borderline case. I see oneharm one way, one harm the other way. You're arguingthat the second harm is the worst harm. Okay, why?What's the argument? MR. WALL: Justice Breyer, I just -- I wantto fight the premise -- JUSTICE BREYER: No, I'm making it foryou -- I'm making your argument. I'm trying to. (Laughter.) JUSTICE BREYER: I'm saying it's somethingon your side and something the other side. He's arguingyou're wrong because if there's no bad conduct by thedefendant, he honestly thinks he doesn't have to file,then the statute never runs. Okay? MR. WALL: We have occupied the -- JUSTICE BREYER: But on the other hand, hisposition leads to the plaintiff never being able to suein borderline cases. Which is worse? MR. WALL: You're absolutely right. Theyare both bad. We've occupied the reasonable middleground. Hope you like it. (Laughter.) JUSTICE SCALIA: Thank you, Mr. Wall.That's a nice note on which to end. Mr. Tilden, we will hear from you. Official ORAL ARGUMENT OF JEFFREY I. TILDEN ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT MR. TILDEN: Justice Scalia, and may itplease the Court: The underwriters' argument, and theGovernment's for that matter, are founded on the notionthat Congress wanted someone who violated (a) toreceive the benefit of the statute of limitations orrepose in (b). (b) is unique in the securities law andperhaps in the law generally, in that the plaintiffsuffers no injury and recovers no damages. There is notriggering event, unlike a fraud case, your stock drops,to suggest that you've been harmed. (b) is percentof the time irrelevant without a (a) filing. As amatter of logic, it makes no sense to provide that onewho violates (b) can escape liability because theyalso violate (a). JUSTICE ALITO: Well, what about as a matterof language, whether or not (b) is a -- whether it's astatute of repose or a statute of limitations, it tellsyou exactly when the time is supposed to begin to run,from the -- from the realization of the profit? And youwant to say no, it doesn't begin to run from that point;it begins to run from the point when some other Officialcompletely different external event occurs, if it everdoes occur, which is the filing of the (a) report.Textually, how do you get to that? MR. TILDEN: We get here -- get there thisway, Your Honor: The Court several times recognizedthat (b) and (a) were interrelated. The limitationsperiod in (b) provides, in the second sentence, "suchprofit" and "no such suit for such profit." Well, whatprofit and what suit are those? To answer that question, we must go to thefirst sentence which refers to the profit of suchbeneficial owner, director, and officer. Who are they?To know that, we must go to (a), which is asingle-sentence statutory command that directsbeneficial owners of more than percent, directors,and officers to file the form provided for below. (b)is a statute of limitations for those who file the form. There is no statute of limitations in (b)for those who do not. The statute of repose contendedfor by the underwriters here would have this uniquefeature: It would run invisibly to all but thedefendant. No one else has any notice the clock isticking but the defendant. This has a -- anattractiveness if you're the defendant, but it doesn'twork well for the rest of us. No knowledge of a Officialtriggering event and its running in the face of anaffirmative statutory duty -- JUSTICE KAGAN: But I think you're arguingagainst the most extreme position. Another position isjust, regardless whether there's been a filing, if theperson knew or should have known, if a reasonable personwould have known, even if there were no filing, that'senough. MR. TILDEN: Your Honor, the -- there areseveral responses to that. (a) we believe is thediscovery rule. Congress looked at this and commandedinsiders to put the information in a particular locationso that shareholders, who have the primary enforcementauthority under (b), can go find it there. In the face of that congressional dictate,can we graft an appendage onto the statute that says,notwithstanding the fact the shareholder was told thathe or she could go look there and notwithstanding thefact that they went to look there and there was nothingthere, they must nonetheless go elsewhere? Congresssaid: Shareholder, go look behind door number to seeif the information is there. JUSTICE SCALIA: They need not go elsewhere,but when they have gone elsewhere and have found out --I mean, in this case, it's -- it was not just that you Officialreasonably should have known; it's you did know. Isn't-- am I right about that? MR. TILDEN: No, sir, you're not right. JUSTICE SCALIA: Oh. Okay. MR. TILDEN: We alleged in the claim a -- aconscious agreement between the underwriters and keydecisionmakers at the issuer to underprice the IPO.This is extraordinarily counterintuitive behavior. Itis not listed, mentioned at all in the IPO filing in'. Judge Scheindlin's opinion in ' nowhere refersto "group," "agreement," "contract," "conspiracy." JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So, that was the -- JUSTICE SCALIA: Is that necessary to yourcause of action? MR. TILDEN: A group plainly is. A groupis. It's a footnote, Your Honor. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But tell me what washidden from you in the prior filings in the academicliterature that your adversary points to? All of thefacts you've just recited have been written aboutextensively for years and years. So, what newinformation that you received told you that you shouldfile a lawsuit? MR. TILDEN: Your Honor, I disagree with thepremise, but let me work backwards. First, if you -- if Officialwe were to apply a vanilla form discovery rule likeMerck, knowledge of the particular facts of thetransaction, to this day no one has knowledge of thepurchase and sales within six months and the profits.Those are elements of a -- I'm sorry -- a (b)claim. We lack knowledge. Two, whatever it is a reasonable shareholderought to do to trigger a Merck-like plain vanilladiscovery rule, we have gone far beyond that. We cannotimpose on a shareholder the obligation to read theJournal of Financial Management or to follow a Harvardsymposium. Three -- and this -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: You mean to tell me thatsomebody's investing in the amounts that are investedhere and they're not following the fact that this hasbeen the center of securities litigation for years? MR. TILDEN: Your Honor, this is a -- not agarden-variety (b) violation. I agree with youcompletely regarding our level of involvement, but I donot believe we present a standard (b) claim. But to answer directly your question, thegroup allegation that underwriters and keydecisionmakers of the issuer conspired together is notin the IPO -- in the IPO case. The allegation there wasthis: That the underwriters were getting unrevealed Officialcompensation that should have been disclosed. Shouldhave been disclosed and was not. Underwritercompensation. And the allegation against the insiderswas that they knowingly or recklessly signed theprospectus. It's at page, I believe, of JudgeScheindlin's opinion. So, that is all that is alleged there.There is no group activity, no notion that this acted inconcert -- or that they were acting in concert. Thenotion that someone would deliberately underprice theirIPO first appeared in the scholarly research at a Springof ' Harvard symposium a year and a half after wefiled our claim. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Could you answer what Iconsider a very strong argument on their side, which isCongress, who creates a statute of repose forintentional conduct like fraud, why would they notcreate a statute of repose for what is a strictliability statute? MR. TILDEN: The fraud case is all about --involve, Your Honor, someone who has reason to know thatthey've been defrauded. It may only be that they boughttheir stock at X, and now it's selling for half of X,but they know something has happened. There is noequivalent here. The (b) plaintiff has suffered no Officialinjury. It's critical to an understanding of what theCongress contemplated at the time. JUSTICE SCALIA: One would think, if the(b) plaintiff has really suffered no injury, it wouldbe all the more likely that Congress would want astatute of repose. MR. TILDEN: I don't believe, Your Honor --the legislative history made it clear -- makes itclear that Congress was extraordinarily concerned abouta broad sweep of misconduct in the 's. They intendeda rule that in this Court's language in RelianceElectric would be flat, sweeping, and arbitrary. Theyintended to squeeze every penny of profit out of thesetransactions, and they did so in (b). This is not a trap for the unwary. Congresshas said you cannot be unwary. If you are an insider,you must be wary. You must be wary. That's whatCongress has said. If we are concerned about how this mightwork going forward -- and the underwriter has raised aparade of horribles: Oh, this is what will happen ifthe Court adopts our position. One thing we might do ifwe want to know what will occur in the next or years is look backwards at the last or years.The Whittaker rule has been the rule in most of the OfficialUnited States for virtually the entirety of the last years. JUSTICE BREYER: It's worked out, but Idon't understand it. I mean, why not just treat it likea special -- regular statute of limitations? You saythat the profit is made on day one. It was made by aninsider, and if your client finds out about it orreasonably should have found out about it, then thestatute begins to run. MR. TILDEN: Your Honor -- JUSTICE BREYER: Otherwise it's tolled,period. Simple, same as every other statute. What'swrong with that? MR. TILDEN: Well, we don't believe thecongressional design contemplated tolling. Congresstold shareholders we could go look in a particularplace. But here's one other problem with it. JUSTICE BREYER: But there are people, yousee, who don't know. There are always borderline cases.Some people, whether it's this one or not, think maybethey don't have to file. They think they're outside thestatute. So, they don't. Okay? You are protected. If they don't file, andyou wouldn't reasonably find out about it, fine. Butwhen you find out about it or should have, not fine. OfficialIt's very simple and makes everything logical. It seemsto be fair to your client, certainly. MR. TILDEN: It may be simple and fair, YourHonor. We -- we don't believe it's what the language ofthe statute provides for. It also suffers from thisadditional defect: Under the statute in this Court'sopinion in Gollust v. Mendell, the standing requirementfor (b) is that you own shares at the time ofinstitution of the action. This can be years subsequentto the events themselves. Can we adopt a statute of limitation, adiscovery rule that runs against someone who has not yetacquired standing under Gollust? I wonder if we can.It seems to me to defeat the special standing thatCongress intended (b) shareholders to have. Youacquire standing on day when you purchase yourshares, only to find that you have no claim because youwere having imputed to you something that a shareholder,which you were not, knew or should have known yearsearlier. Could that be -- JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. -- Mr. Tilden, is thereany other context in which we would extend thestatute -- or we have extended or any court has extendeda statute of limitations without requiring that theplaintiff be reasonably diligent? Can you point to any Officialother example of that? MR. TILDEN: I -- I cannot, Your Honor, butI can also not point to a statute of limitations such asthis one that follows immediately on an affirmativedisclosure obligation imposed on the defendant. To answer a question Justice Alito raised inresponse to one of my colleagues, I believe the bestanalysis of the difference between a statute oflimitations and a statute of repose by this Courtrecently is in the Beach v. Ocwen opinion. And inBeach, the Court analyzed the Truth in Lending Act andconcluded the language that said years after thetransaction the right of rescission shall cease, was astatute of repose. It was completely clear. It did notrely on a discovery rule incorporated therein; it didnot require a -- did not rely on a second prong. Beachcites the -- a prominent Harvard Law Review article at Harvard Law Review, and is a wonderful analysis ofthis Court's work on this subject. A kernel of the motivation in theunderwriters' briefing is the notion that liabilityunder (b) is draconian, that there's -- that it'sharsh. It's important to note that all you have to dounder (b) is give back profit that never belonged toyou. In the words of the statute, it inured to the Officialcorporation; you weren't entitled to it. It's as if thepenalty for bank robbery were that you merely had togive the money back. No attorneys' fees. You don'thave to return your principal, you just give the moneyback. Finally, I'd like to address a differencebetween the Whittaker decision and the Litzler decision,briefly. Both of these courts found that (b) onlyworked by virtue of (a). In Whittaker, the NinthCircuit said only by full compliance with (a) do your(b) rights mean anything. And in Litzler, the SecondCircuit said (b) only works because of the absoluteduty of disclosure placed on the defendant. We agreewith that. We disagree with my buddy, Mr. Landau. Most trading today occurs electronically inthe dark of night; it is invisible to everyone else.But if the Court gets to the position where it isdebating whether Whittaker or Litzler ought to be therule -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Or the SG's. MR. TILDEN: -- or the SG's, we'd offerthis: There is no reported decision in which Whittakerand Litzler will yield different results in our view.Whittaker is a bright-line rule of the kind Congressintended. Litzler is a rule that in its own words Officialrequires conceivably discovery and trial. JUSTICE ALITO: And it requires actual -- isthat right? It requires actual knowledge on the part ofthe plaintiff? MR. TILDEN: Yes, sir. JUSTICE ALITO: Does that make any sense,given the -- the class of individuals who are plaintiffsin (b) cases? MR. TILDEN: We don't -- JUSTICE ALITO: Somebody who -- who is foundfor purposes of litigation very often to have purchasedhis stock long after all of this takes place. So, thelawyer who wants to bring this suit can just go out andfind somebody who knows nothing? Isn't that right? MR. TILDEN: The -- there's much I want tosay in response to that. The underwriters contended inthe lower courts for a subjective rule. No party beforethis Court contends for a subjective rule. We do notbelieve that -- Whittaker is not a subjective rule, andI do not believe that Judge Jacobs in Litzler wasarguing for a subjective rule. What he envisioned -- he -- the judge had afair concern in the abstract. He said, look, if theydon't file the form but the identical information isavailable to all the world everywhere else, what's wrong Officialwith that? Well, there's nothing wrong with it, exceptthat it's never available to all the world anywhereelse. No other securities filings reveal this.Congress told us to go look in one place, and notanywhere else. But the Litzler court I don't thinkenvisioned an actual notice rule. When it saidinformation as clear as plus , I believe it wasseeking an objective rule, Whittaker-like, looking forWhittaker-equivalent information. We don't believe sucha thing exists. That said, the Litzler rule requiresdiscovery in trial. If the rules don't achieve differentresults, then we have the choice between applying a rulethat is just, speedy, and efficient -- Whittaker -- anda rule that is just, slow, and costly -- Litzler. Someversion of Occam's Razor, if nothing else, ought tosupport the application of the Whittaker rule and notthe Litzler rule, should the Court find itself in thatposition. Here's the last thing I'd say, and then Iwill be quiet. Today is the first time this Court hasanalyzed the issue before it, but it's come uprepeatedly in the lower courts over the last years,and with one exception, , in the Middle District of OfficialPennsylvania, the courts have unanimously rejected thepetition -- the position contended for by both theunderwriters here and the Government. The rule has beenWhittaker or a Litzler variant of it everywhere, all thetime. In , the purchase or sale of a share ofstock required the actual knowledge of some otherpeople. Today it is an impersonal electronictransaction, often at home in the middle of the night,invisible to everyone. Insider trading was hard enoughto uncover then; it's gotten harder now. We do notbelieve that Congress envisioned any additional burdenwould be placed on a shareholder by forcing them tolearn this undetectable conduct within years. The most, in our view, famous pronouncementby this Court with respect to the interpretation of(b) is out of the Reliance Electric opinion in .In Reliance, the Court said, faced with a question, twocompeting interpretations of the statute, the Courtshould -- should select that interpretation that bestserves the congressional purpose of curbing short-swingspeculation by insiders. JUSTICE SCALIA: The -- the problem I havewith your argument is it's a very strange statute oflimitations. Accepting that it is not a statute of Officialrepose, it says, you know, you have years after the --the transaction that was failed to be reported. And you want to say what it means is youhave years from the time it was reported. Congresswould have said that. It's so easy to say that. Twoyears from the reporting. MR. TILDEN: I grant you it could have beensaid otherwise, Your Honor, but we -- JUSTICE SCALIA: But I don't know any otherstatute of limitations that achieves the result that youwant that puts it that way. MR. TILDEN: Every other statute oflimitations we can think of, Your Honor, involves aplaintiff who has reason to know of some harm and,incidentally, recovers damages. The (b) plaintiff hasno reason to know of harm and recovers no damages.Right? If I -- let's take a case that's seen everyday and every month, probably in every State in thecountry. A lawnmower accident and a child or a teenagerloses a toe. You may not know anything about lawnmowerdesign. You may not know anything about your State'sproduct liability act or ANSI standards or the litany ofduty breach, causation, and damages, but you do knowthat you used to have ten toes and now you have nine. Official There is no equivalent. The (b) plaintiffdoes not know insider trading has occurred and won'tknow unless he or she is told. They do not know ifsomeone else somewhere has nine toes. As far as theyknow, everybody still has all of their toes. No other statute of limitations will serveas an analogue here because of the unique character of(b). The plaintiff has no injury and recovers nodamages. We don't believe we can fairly look at otherstatutes of limitation as a model, given thatdistinction. The Reliance Electric court concluded if --if you have a choice, you should select thatinterpretation that best serves the goal of curbingshort-swing trading by insiders. We believe the -- the case before the Courtcan and should be determined based on the wording of(b) itself. The limitations period in (b) applies tothose who file the form in (a). But if the Courtbelieves that the textual analysis is less clear than wethink, the Ninth Circuit should be affirmed based on theinterpretive principles of Reliance Electric,nonetheless. If there are no other questions, I'll sitdown. Official JUSTICE SCALIA: Thank you, Mr. Tilden. Mr. Landau, you have minutes. REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF CHRISTOPHER LANDAU ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS MR. LANDAU: Thank you, Your Honor. Verybriefly, just on repose, two quick points. If there's any one theme that runs throughthis Court's (b) jurisprudence, it's that preciselybecause the -- section (b) is prophylactic, it shouldbe interpreted in a literal and mechanical way. I thinkthe -- that argues for repose, because you don't getinto a lot of these questions about who knew what when.And so, that certainly would be consistent with -- thiscase would fit well within that -- that tradition, ifyou were to go that way. In addition on repose, let's not forget thatCongress gave years after the date the profits wererealized. If those profits were in a report, youwouldn't need the whole years, anyway. In fact, forthe fraud provision, you only get year after youdiscover it. So, in a sense, I think that helps showthat even in a repose approach, years is plenty oftime. Then -- but assuming that you go withequitable tolling, I think -- I'd like to emphasize that Officialthere's really four approaches that have been broughtforth. There's the Ninth Circuit's rigid approach thatit's -- they call it equitable tolling, but there'sreally nothing equitable about it. It's -- it's wedon't care about who knew what, when, or anything. Itis you have to file the (a). The district court actually struggledbecause the district court in this case said I'msupposed to be doing something called equitable tolling,and there's nothing equitable here at all, because Ithink everything here was plainly known to the -- to theplaintiffs or should have been known. Then you have the Litzler approach, whichlooks to actual knowledge. And I think, as some of thequestioning brought out, there is no background rulethat distinguishes between actual knowledge andconstructive knowledge for purposes of equitabletolling. Again, I think as some of the questionsbrought out, equitable tolling, because it's anequitable doctrine, looks to has the defendant behavedequitably and has the plaintiff behaved equitably? And we agree with the Government thatdiligence -- in other words, would a reasonableshareholder -- did a shareholder know or would a Officialreasonable shareholder should have known -- is acritical part of the inquiry that's missing in -- in theNinth Circuit's analysis. Where we disagree with the Government iswith respect to their -- their view of fraudulentconcealment to involve any violation -- any allegedviolation of a statutory (a) duty. Under theGovernment's view, it would be considered fraudulentconcealment and would -- would give rise to tolling ifsomebody were to come in today and say, gee, theMicrosoft IPO back in , there was actually a groupin there, the underwriters conspired. And -- you know,the thing is the difference between this case and thatone is this case happens to have involved this hugelyprominent IPO litigation that really brought all thesethings to light, but the -- the defendant in thatMicrosoft hypothetical would not have the advantage ofbeing able to point to the defendant's -- to theplaintiffs' lack of diligence, saying this is all outthere. So, you'd be creating a regime, if you gowith the Government's approach, that really waters downthe defendant's culpability on the fraudulentconcealment side of equitable tolling. Essentially,they're asking you to take the fraud out of fraudulent Officialconcealment. The only last point I'd like to make isthat, with respect to the specific facts here again,counsel said today that this was not known until aHarvard symposium in . I would urge you, again, tolook at their briefing below. Their -- docket in thedistrict court responds to our motion to dismiss byciting a article that they actually included in thejoint appendix. You can look at joint appendix to. Their theory of underwriter conspiracy with issuerinsiders is set forth right there on those pages of that article, well before the years. And, again, in addition, the -- theircomplaint, which talks about lock-up, you can lookspecifically at joint appendix to to see howlock-up was alleged to be a critical part of theirunderlying theory. Finally, it is not true, again, that the IPOlitigation was only about underwriters. There wereindividual issuer defendants at issue in the IPOlitigation. And, in fact, Judge Scheindlin's opiniongoes into some detail about the -- the allegedconspiracy that they're saying -- the alleged group thatthey're saying they couldn't have found out. In fact, she says -- this is -- pages Officialand of the Judge Scheindlin opinion will providequotations that show that their theory was very wellknown. Thank you. JUSTICE SCALIA: Thank you, Mr. Landau. The case is submitted. (Whereupon, at : p.m., the case in theabove-entitled matter was submitted.) Aabettor :able : :above-entitled: :absolute :absolutely :: ::: ::abstract :academic :,:accept :,Accepting :accident :accidentally:accrual : :: ::accrued :achieve :achieves :acquire :acquired :act : : :: :: :acted :acting :action : :: :: :: :activity :actual :: :,: ::,addition :additional :::address :adopt :adopted :adopts :advantage :adversary :adversary's:affirmative: ::affirmed :afforded :ago :agree : :: :: :agreed :agreement: :,agreements:,agrees :,aid :aider :AL :Alito : :: ::, ::, :: :: :,,Alito's :allegation :: :allegations ::alleged :: ::,,alleges :allow : :amicus : ::amount :amounts :analogue :analysis ::, :OfficialOfficialAPPEARAN...:analyzed :::announce :ANSI :answer :: :: :anymore :anyway :::::appeared :appendageappendix :,application: :applies :,:apply : :applying :approach :: ::, :approaches :appropriate:arbitrary :argues :arguing :,: :argument ::,,, :: : :: :,: :: :,:, :: :arguments ::article :,: :,articles :asking :Assistant :assume :assuming ::attorneys :attractiveness:attuned :authority :available :a.m : :Bb : : ::, ::back : :: ::, :backdrop :background ::,,, :: :,: ::backwards: :bad :,balance :bank :based :,basic : :basically :Beach :,::Beggerly :: ::begins ::behalf :,,: : :: :behaved ::behavior :: :believe :: :: :: ::, :: ::,believed :believes :belonged :::beneficial :benefit :best : ::, :: :better :,beyond :big :Billing :,bit :Black's :black-letter:blowers ::books :borderline: :,:borrowed ::bought :breach ::, :Breyer :: ::,,,:,,brief : :briefing ::: briefly : :bright-line :causation :cause : :clean :clear : ::bring : :: :bringing :broad :Brockamp ::broker :,:,brokers ::,broker's :brought :: : :,: ::,,:buddy :burden :buying :CC : :call : :called :::care :carefully :case : : ::, :: :,,: ::,,,: :,: :: :: :: :: :,:,cases : ::, :: :: :: :cease :center :century :CEO :certain :certainly :: : ::, ::character :characterized:,checking :child :choice ::CHRISTOPH...: :, ::Circuit :: :,,: :,:Circuit's :: :: :circumstances: :: :cite :cited :cites :citing :claim : ::, :: :,,: : :: ::claims :class :classic : :: ::Official: :,: ::Clearly :clever :client : :clients :clock :Code :colleagues :College ::come :: :,: ::command :commandedcommon :::companies :Company ::comparing :compensation:,competing:complained-of:,complaint :: :completely :: :compliance:complicit :conceal :concealed :concealment:, :,:, ::, :conceivably:concern :concerned ::concert :,concluded ::conduct : :: :: :confidential:Congress :: :,,: : :,:, :: :,:,,:,,,:, ::, :: :,: :: :,: :,: :,,:, :: :: :: :congressional: ::conscious :consider :considerations:considered: ::consistent :consists :consonant :conspiracy: :: ::,conspired ::constructive: :contemplated: :contended :: :contends :context :: :: :contextually:contract :contradiction:corporate :corporation: :: :Correct :costly :counsel :counterintuitive::counterparties: :counterparts:country :couple :course ::court :,:, ::,,: :,:,,,:, ::, ::,,: :: :: :,: : Official:,,:,,:,,:, :courts :: :: ::Court's : :: :: :covered ::create ::created : :: :,creates :creating :,::Credit : :criminal :critical :: :culpability: ::culpable :: :curbing :curiae : :::cut :cutoff :,DD :damages :: :,: :dark : :date :,,:day : :: :: :daylight :days :deal :dealing :deals :,debating :decide :decided ::,deciding :decision : :: :,:decisionmakers: :default :,defeat :defect :defendant :: :,:,,,: ::,,: :: :defendants :: :defendant's: :,: :,definition :: :defrauded :Delaware :deliberatelyDepartment:::departs ::depend :dependingdesign :::designed :detail :determined:dice :dicta :dictate :Dictionary :differ :difference :: :different :: :: :: :: :differentiate:differently :: :diligence :: :diligent ::diligently :directions :directly :director :directors :directs :disagree :: :disaster :disclose :disclosed :,disclosure :: :,: : ::disclosure-for...:discover :discovered :: :discovers :discovery ::,, :: :,: :,: :: :discussion :disgorge :disgorgement:,dismiss :: ::, :dismissal :dissent :distinctiondistinguishes::district :,:, ::, :divorce :docket ::doctrine ::doctrines :: :document ::,doing :door :dozens :draconian :draft :drafted :drafting :drew :drive :dropped :drops :duty :,: :,,: :: :D.C :,,EE : :,earlier :,: :early : :earned :easy : :efficient :egregious :either : ::Electric :: :,electronic :electronically:elements :emphasizeenacted :::encounter :enforcement: :entirety :entitled :: :envisioned: ::equitable :,:, :: :,:, ::, :: ::,,: :,:,,,: :,,:,,,:equitably ::equity :equivalent: :escape : especially :ESQ :,,:,,,Essentially:establish :established ::estate :,estoppel :ET :event : :: :: :events :everybody :exactly :examined :example :: ::exception :Exchange :: :exclusively :exists :Exploration: :expresses :extend : ::extended :: :,,:,extensively:external :extinguish :extraordinarily: :extraordinary: :extreme :Fface :,faced :fact : :: :: :,: ::,factors :facts : ::, :,: ::fail :failed :failure :fair :, :fairly :famous :far : :feature :feel :fees :fiduciary :fight :figure :file :,: :: ::, ::, ::, :: :filed : :: :: :: :filing : ::,,: ::, :filings ::, :: :finality :Finally ::Financial :find : ::, :Official:, ::, :: :finds :fine :,finely :finish :first : :: : :: :: :: :: :fit :fixed :flat :focus :follow :followed :following :follows :footnote :: ::forced :forcing :forever :forfeiture :forget : ::form :,: ::, :: :formed :formulation :: :forth : :forward :found :: :: :founded :four :fraud : ::, :: :: :,: :fraudster :fraudsters ::fraudulent: :,:,full : :fundamental: :further ::GG :garden-variety:gather :geared : :gee : :general :: :generally ::getting :Ginsburg :: : ::, :: ::Ginsburg's ::give :,: ::, :given : :gives : :: :go : :,: :,:,,,: :: ::, :goal :goes :,: :going : :: ::Gollust :,good : :gotten :Government: :: :: :Government's: ::,graft :grant : :granting :ground :group ::, ::, :: ::guess :guideposts :Hhalf :,hand :hands :happen :happened :happens :hard : :::harder :hard-core :harm :,,,:,harmed :harsh :Harvard :: :,:hear : :heart : held :helps :hidden :history :Holland :home :honestly :Honor : :: : :: :,: :: :,:, ::, :: :: ::, :: :: :: :,:hook :Hope :horribles :House :hugely :hypothetical: :Hy-Vee :Iidea :identical :immediately: :immunize :impersonal :implication: :,importance:important :: ::impose :imposed :imputed :inadvertentinadvertentlyincidentally:::include :included :includes :::including :incorporatedincorporates::incorrect :indicia :individual :individuals :inference ::information:, :: :,informers :injury :,:,,: ::, :inner :inquiry :insider :: :: :,: :: ::insiders :: :: :: ::instance :institution :intended :: :Official:intentional :: ::intents :interpretation:, :interpretationsinterpreted :::::interpretiveinterrelatedinured :invested :investigations:investing :invisible ::invisibly :invoke :involve :involved :involvement:::involves :involving :IPO : :: :,: :,:,IPOs :Iqbal :irrelevant :issue :,: ::issuer :: :: ::,issuers :: ::,,: :: :Justices :KKagan :,: : :: :: :,: :Kennedy :kernel :key : :: : ::keyed :kind : :: : :: :: ::kinds :knew : :: :: ::know : :: ::,,:, ::,,,:,,: :: :: :,: ::,,,:,,:,,,: :knowing :knowingly :::knowledgeJJacobs ::JEFFREY :: :,: :joint :,,Journal :judge :,: :: :,: :judgment :jurisdiction: :jurisdictional:jurisprudence: :Justice : :: :,,:,, ::, :,: :,:,, :: :,:, :: :,:, ::,,: :: ::,,:,,,:, ::, ::, ::,,:, :: :,:,,,: :,:, ::,,: :: :,: : : ::,, :: :,:known :: :,:, :: :,: : :knows :,: :Llack : :Lampf : :: :,: ::,,Landau : :: :,,: :,: : ::,, ::, ::, :: :,: :,: :,:, ::, :: ::,, :Landau's :landmark :language ::,,: :,: :: ::large :late :Laughter ::,law : ::, ::, :Official:lawnmower:,lawsuit ::lawyer :leads :learn :left :legal :legislates :legislation :legislative :legitimacy :Lending :length :lengthy :lesson :let's : :: ::level :liability ::, :,: :: :liable : ::light :likelihood :limit : :,:,,,: :, :: :,,: :,: ::, :: ::limitation :: :: :: :limitations :: :,: :,,: : :: ::,, :: :,,: :,:,,: ::, ::, ::limits : :: :listed :litany :literal :literature ::litigation :: :: ::,little :Litzler :,: :,:,,: :,:, ::LLC :location :lock-up ::,,,:,logic : :logical :long : :look : ::, ::, :: :,: ::, ::,,: :: :: :,,looked ::looking :: :: ::looks : ::loses :lot : ::lots :lower ::Mmagic : :majority :making :,Management:manner :matter :: :: ::, ::, :mean :,: ::, :: :: :: ::meaning :: :means : :: :mechanical:Mendell :mentioned: :Merck : :: :,:Merck-like :merely :Microsoft ::middle :: :minimum :minutes :misconduct: :misses :missing :model :money : :::month :months :,: :motion :: :,:motivation:NN :, :nature :,nearly :necessarily:necessary :need : ::, ::never ::, ::new :,:nice : :night : ::nine : :Ninth : ::, :: ::nonintentional: Officialplaintiff's ::pleadings :principles :normal ::normally :norms :note : :noted :notice :: ::notion : :: :notwithstandi...:,November :number ::numbers :OO : :objective ::obligation ::, :: :Occam's :occasion :occupied ::occur : :occurred :occurs ::Ocwen :odd :offenses :offer :officer :officers :Oh : :Okay :,: :operate :opinion :: :: :: ::opposed :opposite :opposition :oral : :,,: : :ordinary :: :: ::ought :: :outer :,,: : :,: : :: ::outside :out-and-out: :out-and-out-f...overrule :over-inclusive::owner :owners :PP :page : ::pages ::,parade :part : ::, :: ::particular :: ::, :: :particularly:party :patch :penalty :Pennsylvania:penny :people : ::, ::, :percent ::period : :: : :: ::,,: ::person :: :,persons :petition :Petitioner ::Petitioners :: :, :: :: :,: :phrase :phrased :: :pick :picked :piece :place :: :: :placed ::plain : :plainly ::plaintiff :: : ::, ::, ::,,: :,: :: :: :: ::, :: :plaintiffs :,: :: :::plead :,pleaded :::,please :: :plenty :plus : :point : :: :,: :: ::, :: ::, :: ::points : :: :position :: ::, :: ::, :: ::positions :Posner ::Posner's :possibly :potential ::potentially: :precisely :precluded :prefer :premise ::present :presumption: :prevent :price :,primary :principal :::prior :private :probably ::problem :: :: :proceed :proceedings:product :profit : :: ::,,,: ::profits :: ::,prohibition:prominent: :prong :: ::prongs :pronouncement:prophylactic: : :, :proposition :: :questioningOfficialreceive :received ::recited :recklessly :recognitionrecognized :::records :recover :recovers ::, :refers ::reflect :regard :regarding :regardless :::regime :regular :rejected :Reliance ::, ::rely :,relying ::remand : ::remedy :repeatedly:replay :report :: :: ::reported :: ::,reporting :: :reports :repose : :: : ::, : :: :,:, :: :,:, :: :,:, ::, ::, :: ::, ::, ::, ::,,,require ::required ::, :: :requirement: :requirements: :requires ::,, :requiring :rescission :research ::reserve :respect : :: :, ::, :: :respond :Respondent: : :Respondents: :responds :response ::responses :responsibilities:rest :restrictive :result :results :::return :reveal :reverse :Review :,rewrite :right : :: :,: :: ::, ::, ::, ::rights :rigid :rise : :: :robbery :rule :,,,: : ::, ::, :: ::, ::, :: :,: :,:, ::,,,:, ::rules : ::run : ::,,: :running :runs : :: ::S:prospectus: :protected :prove :provide :provided :provides ::::provision ::, :,: ::, :: :: :provisions ::,,,,: : :: :public :,:publicly :purchase :: :purchasedpurely :::purpose :purposes :: :put : :puts : :puzzle :p.m :Qquestion ::, :: :: :: :: ::questions :: ::quick :quiet :quotations :quoted :RR :raised ::raises :ran :,Razor :reach :read : ::reading :reads : :real :realizationrealized :::really :,: :: ::, ::reason :: : :: ::,reasonable :: :: ::reasonably :: :,:REBUTTAL: :rebutted : Officialsee : ::S : :safety :,sale :sales :sanctions :saying ::, :: :,says : :: :,: :: ::, :: :: ::Scalia :,: :: :,:, ::,,: :: :,: :: : :Scalia's :Scheindlin :Scheindlin's: ::scholarly :se :Seattle :SEC :,: ::second : ::, ::, :: :: :: :secret :section :,: : :: : :: :,: :: ::, :sections :securities ::, :: :: :: :: :: :: :seeking :seen :select ::selling :,: :sense :: :: ::sentence :,separate :serve :serves ::set : : :: :sets : :Seventh :SG's :,share :shareholder: ::, :: :: :,:shareholders: :: :shares :,:,shorten :,shorter :,short-swing:,,: :show : :: :side :,: :signed :Simmonds :simple ::,simply :single-sentence:sir : :sit :situation :six :slice :slow :solely :Solicitor :somebody :: :: :,:somebody's:sooner : :sorry :SOTOMAYOR: :,:,,:, ::,,:, :: :special : :specific :::specifically:specified :speculation:speedy :Spring :squeeze :stage : ::standard :standards :standing :,:,stands :stand-alone: :start : :started :::State :: :statement :statements:States :,,: : :State's :statute :,:, ::,,,: :,,,:, :,:, ::, ::,,:, :: :,:,,,:,,,,:,,,: ::, :: :: ::,,:,,: :,: ::,,,:,,,: :,,:, ::, :: :statutes :: :,:,,:, :: :statutorily:statutory :: :: :: :step :stock :,: :: :stop :strange :strategic :::strength :strict :strong :::structural :: :: :structure :,: ::, ::structures :struggled :subject :: :,: :subjective ::,,submitted ::subsequent :substantive : Officialsuddenly :sue :,, ::suffered :suffers :::sufficiently ::,suggest ::Suisse : :suit : :: :,:suits :,:support :supposed :: :Supreme :,sure : :surely :survive :suspicious :sweep :sweeping :symposium: ::TT :,take : :: :,: :takes :,:talked :talking :talks :technical :teenager :tell : :: :tells :ten :term :terminate :terms : :text : :: :textual : :: ::textually :: :Thank :: :,:,theme :theories ::theory :,:, :: ::, :they'd :thing : :: ::, :: :,:things : :: : :: :think : :: :,:, :,:,,: :: :: ::, ::,,:, :: :,: :,:, :: :: ::, :: ::,,:,,thinking ::,thinks ::,third :,thought :: :,three ::ticking :tiered :Tilden : :: :,: : ::,,: :: :,:, :: :,: :,:time : :,: :, ::, ::, :: :,: :,: :,: :,: :: :: :timely :times :timing :today : :: :: ::toe :toes : ::told :,: :: ::tolled :: :: :tolling :,:, :: :,: :,:, :: :,: :,:, ::, :,: ::,,,:,ton :trade :,traded :trades ::trading :: ::,tradition :traditional: ::traditionally: :transaction :: :: :transactions:trap :treat :, :treated :: :trial : :trigger :triggered :triggering :::true : ::, :: :truth : ::TRW : :try : ::trying :: :Tuesday :turn : :: ::two : :,: : ::, :: :: :: ::Twombly :two-prong :: : :: :two-pronged: :, :two-tiered :typical :,Uunanimously:uncover :underlying :: :underprice :underpricing-...::::underscoresunderscoringunderstand :: :: :understanding: :: : understate:understood:underwriter: ::underwriters: :: :: ::, :: :: :undetectableundisputed::unique :: :United :,,: : :unnecessaryunreasonableunrevealeduntimely ::::::unwary :upshot :urge :USA :use : :: :usually :U.S :Vv : : ::valve :,VANESSA :vanilla : ::,Officialvariant :various :vast :,version :view :: ::,violate :violated :: :violates :violation :: :,,: :,: ::,violations :virtually :virtue :Wwait :waiver : :Wall : ::, ::, :,: ::,,:, :: :,: :,:,want :, :: ::, ::,wanted ::, :: :wants :wary :,Washington ::,,wasn't :: :waters :way : :: :: :,: ::,ways :,:week :weight :went :weren't :: :We'll :we're :,:we've : :: :whatsoever :whistle ::Whittaker: :,:,,: :,:Whittaker-eq...Whittaker-like::whoa :win :wonder :wonderful :wording :words : :: :: ::work :: ::worked :: :works :world ::worse :worst :wouldn't :: :,: ::write :written :: :wrong :: ::wrote :Xx :, :: :,:,YY :year : :: :years :,,: :, ::,, :: :: ::,,,:,,,,:,,,: :,: :,: :,: :: :,,:,,:yield :ZZ : : : : : :: :- : :: : :-year :: : : :: :(a) : ::,,:, ::,,: :: ::,,:,,:,,: :,: :(b) :,: : ::,,:, ::,,:,,,: :,: ::,,: :,:, :: :,: :: ::,, ::(b)'s : :(c) : ::th : : :: :: : : : Official :, : :, :: : :(e) : :: : :,, ::, :,:, ::, ::,,,:, ::, ::, :-year : ::,s : : : :: : : : : : : : :,: : :: ::-year : : : : : : : :: : : :, : : : : :, : : 