 Petitioner - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -x MATCH-E-BE-NASH-SHE-WISH BAND OF : : POTTAWATOMI INDIANS, : No. - : DAVID PATCHAK, ET AL. : - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -x and - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -x KEN L. SALAZAR, SECRETARY OF THE : : INTERIOR, ET AL., : No. - : : - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -x argument before the Supreme Court of the United States at : a.m. APPEARANCES: ERIC D. MILLER, ESQ., Assistant to the Solicitor Petitioners Washington, D.C. Tuesday, April , v. DAVID PATCHAK, ET AL. The above-entitled matter came on for oral Official IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES v. General, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; for Official Petitioner in No. -. behalf of Respondents. Petitioners in No. -. PATRICIA A. MILLETT, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; for MATTHEW T. NELSON, ESQ., Grand Rapids, Michigan; on Official C O N T E N T S PAGE On behalf of the Petitioners in No. - On behalf of the Petitioner in No. - On behalf of the Respondents On behalf of the Petitioners in No. - ORAL ARGUMENT OF ORAL ARGUMENT OF ERIC D. MILLER, ESQ. PATRICIA A. MILLETT, ESQ. ORAL ARGUMENT OF MATTHEW T. NELSON, ESQ. REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF ERIC D. MILLER, ESQ. Official P R O C E E D I N G S CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument (: a.m.) Band of Pottawatomi Indians v. Patchak. The suit in this case suffers from two ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS IN NO. - MR. MILLER: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it Mr. Miller. ORAL ARGUMENT OF ERIC D. MILLER this morning in Case -, Match-E-Be-Nash-She-Wish independent jurisdictional defects, either one of which provides a basis for reversing the judgment of the court of appeals. The first is that the United States has not waived its sovereign immunity from suits challenging its title to Indian trust lands. And the second is that Patchak, the plaintiff, lacks prudential standing because the interests that he seeks to vindicate in the suit are not within the zone of interests protected or regulated by section of the Indian Reorganization Act, the provision whose alleged violation forms the basis for his complaint. think would have a valid and timely APA action to please the Court: JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Could you tell me who you Official MR. MILLER: There are -- there are two parts reality of the allegation. Who would -- who would be into trust. And that's why the regulations set out a -day period after the announcement of the intent to take the land into trust before title is actually transferred. So somebody would have to file during that period, as the MichGO plaintiffs did -- challenge what the Secretary has allegedly done here, which is to take lands into trust in violation of the statute per our earlier -- I know that the U.S. is challenging that assumption, but let's assume the -- the able to challenge it, and in what mechanism? to that. And taking the timing question first, the claim would have to be brought before the land was taken claim under section -- and, of course, there can be other claims under NEPA or the IGRA -- but under section of the IRA, the proper plaintiff would be a State or local government, because those are the entities that are directly affected, directly regulated by the transfer of jurisdiction to the tribe -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Let's assume a situation where you first promise the land to one tribe, and then, JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: That, I understand. That's why I said timely filed. MR. MILLER: And the proper plaintiff for a Official in the midst of negotiations, another tribe lays claim. The United States says, I change my mind; I'm going to give the land to the other tribe. Does the tribe that you have denied the land to have any standing or any rights with respect to challenging that determination? MR. MILLER: Yes. As the beneficiaries of section , the parties for whose benefit Congress acted and the Secretary would be acting, I think in that scenario a tribe would have standing to challenge it. JUSTICE SCALIA: Mr. Miller, you -- you claim on behalf of the government that the decision of whether to take the land into trust has nothing to do with the use to which the land will be put; wherefore, these plaintiffs who were complaining about the use to which the taking into trust for years while there was pending a lawsuit which would have prevented the use that the government intended the newly trusted land to You delayed for years because there was a challenge to whether you could use -- whether this land could be used for what you call gaming and I call gambling. If that is so, why did the government delay it'll be put have no standing. be used for? Why did you delay for years if it's Official Secretary's policy, as set out in -- JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, wait. On what basis? MR. MILLER: Well, the -- the challenge in MichGO organization, alleged that the Secretary had not complied with NEPA, had not adequately considered the environmental consequences of the action to take the land into trust. irrelevant? that case was -- was not just to the use. It was to the decision to take title to land into trust. And the On any basis other than -- MR. MILLER: There was a NEPA claim, for example. And the -- the plaintiff in that case, the action consequences are there from the mere decision to take it into trust? Unless you know what it's going to be used for, you have no idea what the environmental consequences are. MR. MILLER: Well, that's -- that is true. And it is also true that NEPA may in some circumstances require consideration of the use for which the land is to be put; but, it doesn't follow that section requires or contemplates protecting the interests of nearby landowners from the use. JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, what environmental JUSTICE SCALIA: But the challenge was Official And the Secretary's policy -- the whole point JUSTICE SCALIA: Based in part on the use to which it was going to be put; right? MR. MILLER: Right, but what -- what MichGO MR. MILLER: That -- I mean, that was -- the of the -day regulation is to allow people who want to to -- was to the transfer, you say. allegation -- was seeking, what the plaintiff was seeking in that case, was an injunction barring the transfer. challenge the transfer to have a full opportunity to litigate those claims. And that is why the -- of Mr. Patchak? Suppose he had filed in the -day window. The Secretary gives notice to affected persons. So he comes in and he says: I think that you don't have authority to do it because this tribe wasn't under Federal jurisdiction, and so I want you to call -- call it off. Nothing -- nothing has been transferred within I thought both your brief and the tribe's brief said that the judicial review would be available to any affected person who used that procedure. Is that -- is that true? JUSTICE GINSBURG: And that wouldn't be true days. MR. MILLER: I mean, if they could establish Official Now, in this case, he filed outside the -day period. He was aware that -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: But you said -- you had it enforce against the Secretary the limitations that Congress put on the Secretary. So would there be standing in that situation? Mr. Patchak comes in within the -day standing, but -- if he had filed within the -day period, the Secretary would not take title to the land until there was a full opportunity for judicial review. was important if. So the argument is this tribe wasn't under Federal jurisdiction. I could raise that because I'm an affected person. Somebody's got to be able to period, so he's not trying to undo any done deal. Patchak as a private individual, but there would be standing for a State or local government or, in the unusual situation that Justice Sotomayor suggested, for another tribe -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: So then you disagree with the tribe that said in no uncertain terms, in its reply brief, that this case is not about the availability of judicial review. Judicial review was available in the -day window. MR. MILLER: There would not be standing for MR. MILLER: I think we -- we don't disagree Official is acquired is all tied up with the question of what use is going to be made of it. The government doesn't acquire this land with JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, on the standing point, with that in the context of the discussion of the sovereign immunity issue. I don't understand that statement in the tribe's brief to have been a concession that there would have been standing. I mean, the -- the distinction that you're setting up between acquisition of land and use of land -- this goes back to Justice Scalia's question -- that strikes me as -- as artificial, that the question of when land no object in mind. It thinks about how the land is going to be used. So that in the end, this really is a in -- in this sense, in the sense that -- and you're right that the regulations do refer to the purposes for which the land is to be used, but that's because --JUSTICE KAGAN: And the statute as well thinks of this as a -- is a statute that's designed to promote economic development, which is dependent on some understanding of how the land is actually going to be used by the tribes.land use statute, isn't it? MR. MILLER: Well, it is a land use statute MR. MILLER: That -- that is exactly right. Official JUSTICE SCALIA: Why not? Of course, it be arguably within the interest. That -- that adverb is left out in much of the discussion. And that's why, in determining whether -- the Secretary has to take account of use in order to determine whether it will, in fact, serve the interest of promoting tribal economic development and self-governance, but it doesn't follow that the effect of that use on bystanders, on other property owners in the vicinity, is within the interests that Congress had in mind -- doesn't have to be within the interest, it just has to But if, indeed, the use of the land is one of the elements to be considered in taking title, why isn't somebody who is affected by the proposed use within the the facts of this case as an example, you know, Patchak's objection is not to the jurisdictional transfer. It's not to the fact that this is now going or regulatory authority of the State of Michigan or Allegan County -- other words, it's not to the title.to be tribal land rather than land subject to the taxing zone of interest? MR. MILLER: Because -- I mean, just to take CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Just to interrupt, in MR. MILLER: Well, I mean -- that is -- the Official JUSTICE SCALIA: You could put that it way, put it that way as well. that the land is going to be used for gaming, but in MR. MILLER: But -- JUSTICE SCALIA: Inasmuch as the government CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I'm sorry. MR. MILLER: The injury comes from the fact relief he is trying to get is to undo that, but the -- the injury doesn't come from that. -- or you could put it that the injury comes from the government's taking title for gaming. Okay? You could always has a purpose in mind when it takes title. adversely affected by gaming on Indian land within the zone of interest -- is that interest arguably something the tribe -- Congress was speaking to -- what date was it clear that the use would be gaming? There is some suggestion in the briefs that, oh, well, it could be light industry and it was zoned for economic use generally. At what point was it acknowledged by all MR. MILLER: But for the zone of interest test, the question would be, are people who may be JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I'm a little confused. The government -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: On what date was it -- on Official MR. MILLER: The regulations do not address that this would be for gaming? At the very outset? MR. MILLER: I believe that in applying to have the land taken into trust, the tribe said what -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: At the very outset. MR. MILLER: -- it wanted to happen. JUSTICE ALITO: What would happen if someone filed a challenge within the -day period and then the government took title to the land while the litigation was pending? Do the regulations preclude that from happening while the litigation continues, or is it necessary for the -- the challenger to obtain a stay from a court? that. The BIA manual provides that that action, of the litigation is pending. JUSTICE ALITO: Well, is that enforceable? MR. MILLER: I -- I think that it would not be, but I think that -- I guess I would say two things these regulations, the -day notice rule, precisely for the purpose of ensuring that there would be an adequate opportunity for judicial review, and thus removing the constitutional doubt that the Eighth Circuit had found taking the land into trust, should not be taken while about that. The first is that the Secretary enacted associated with the IRA. Official And I think -- so there is every reason to think that the Secretary is going to conscientiously carry out what those regulations provide for, which is allowing judicial review. And if the Secretary were ever to do that, I think he would find that going forward in every case, courts would enter a stay. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, they didn't here. I mean, when Patchak filed his suit, title had not yet passed to the Secretary. And he sought a stay. denied, and he could have sought relief from the court of appeals, and he didn't. that point, you thought nothing prevented the Secretary from moving forward, and in fact, the Secretary did move forward even though he'd already filed the suit. isn't it just like your days? that was not filed within the -day period. The -- JUSTICE BREYER: So what? MR. MILLER: They -- JUSTICE BREYER: Can I -- the -- this is MR. MILLER: That -- yes. JUSTICE BREYER: All right. Well, then why MR. MILLER: Well, because this was a suit MR. MILLER: And -- and it was -- it was CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But nothing -- at exactly the point that I don't understand. Forget Official This wasn't an action to quiet title at all. hasn't taken it into trust. So why are we considering quiet title? What standing for a moment. I'm just thinking of your quiet title action. This was a -- I looked at the complaint, as I -- as I gather from his questions, so did the Chief Justice. And it is a complaint filed before the -- the property was taken into trust, and it asks for an injunction under the APA, if it wants review of that, before the government has any title to it at all, or at least it has that to do with this? Why isn't it exactly what -- now, that's the same as the Chief Justice asked, and I have exactly the same question. MR. MILLER: Right. Well -- and in that period before the land is taken into trust, the APA, everyone agrees, permits -- permits that litigation. JUSTICE BREYER: All right. Well, why isn't that -- that's the end of that argument, then, isn't it? before the land was taken into trust; the district court denies the request for the injunction. The court of appeals reverses that. And so there we are. We're reviewing that action by the court of appeals, reviewing a judge who said you are not entitled to an injunction Because this suit was brought seeking an injunction JUSTICE BREYER: Oh, I don't know about that. to relinquish the title to the land. And so that -- JUSTICE BREYER: Well, I don't know how -- sought before the land was taken into trust. question of whether to enjoin the transfer from taking place is moot. Because -- Well -- MR. MILLER: The relief that's being sought now -- and this is made clear in Patchak's brief in the court of appeals -- is an order compelling the Secretary how we should treat that. There -- there was an order. Suppose that order was wrong. Suppose they should have granted the injunction. Then isn't what we should do, send it back because that injunction should have been granted, then have a hearing or trial or whatever you want to have on whether the Act applies, and then figure out how you do relief? Which I don't know. the transfer is completed. appeal the district court's denial of that injunction, MR. MILLER: No. The time to seek review of whether to enjoin a not-yet-completed transfer is before JUSTICE BREYER: They did. MR. MILLER: But -- and if he wanted to Official MR. MILLER: Because at this point, the he could have done so as of right under -- Official JUSTICE BREYER: He didn't appeal that. He argument is just one of timing and not the fact that the MR. MILLER: He did not appeal it. JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, then your -- your appealed it different -- reliance is on the -- is on the QTA. The tribe says, isn't it ironic that if you really have a claim in the land as a property owner, you can't sue under the QTA, and this person is much further removed. Well, that's because he has a different ground for relief. That's all we're talking about. MR. MILLER: Well, the -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: So the fact that the QTA suddenly, deus ex machina, pops onto the scene doesn't mean that it -- that that changes his -- his ground for relief that he's -- that he's relying upon. His ground of relief has always been the same, APA. MR. MILLER: With -- with respect, Your Honor, once the land is taken into trust, the -- the out of trust, and that's what brings this within the scope of the QTA. sovereign immunity is judged as of the time of the only effective relief would be an order taking the land JUSTICE ALITO: Well, that depends on whether filing of the complaint or as of the time of the Official MR. MILLER: We -- we think it's -- it's not And one example of that is under the Westfall would just say about that is it is not remarkable, or it litigation of the sovereign immunity claim, right? And you claim -- you don't want us to address that issue. properly before the Court. But I mean, one thing I often happens that, as the nature of the claims or the identity of the parties changes throughout the course of litigation, sovereign immunity can bar a suit that wouldn't have been barred before. Act. Somebody sues an officer of the United States for a tort, that suit can go forward. But if the Attorney General then certifies under the Westfall Act that the employee was acting within the scope of his or her duties, then it gets converted into an action against the United States, which might, if it falls within one of the FTCA exceptions, be brought -- that. The Act provides for that, right? example of how, as -- as the parties, or the relief -- here, it's the relief -- changes, sovereign immunity can bar an action. If I could reserve the remainder of my time. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel. JUSTICE SCALIA: But the Act provides for MR. MILLER: Well, but that -- that's just an Official Ms. Millett. MS. MILLETT: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it please the Court: That is why the Congress of the United States ORAL ARGUMENT OF PATRICIA A. MILLETT ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER IN NO. - When you strip title to land, which is a fact in this case, you strip sovereignty. You wreak havoc on ongoing governmental operations, you -- on criminal jurisdiction, civil jurisdiction, the backdrop against which contracts were negotiated, investment decisions made and economic development undertaken. and this Court in Coeur D'Alene have never allowed injunctive relief to strip the United States of title that it has. The essence of sovereign immunity is, right or wrong, you cannot take title away that the United States has. the -- is that in the Administrative Procedure Act? I the -- the old bugaboo of sovereign immunity, and says when it -- when it will stand and when it won't. MS. MILLETT: If you look -- JUSTICE SCALIA: And if you're relying on the Quiet Title Act, that -- that clearly covers only suits thought the Administrative Procedure Act eliminates JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, is -- is that in Official MS. MILLETT: For two reasons, Justice Scalia. Because the APA itself -- and this is on page which seek to say, I own the land rather than the government, and this is not such a suit. So I don't see why the normal APA principles wouldn't govern. a of the addendum to our brief -- says that it does not waive sovereign immunity and does not grant relief if another statute expressly or impliedly forecloses the relief that is sought. And the Quiet Title Act says you cannot have an injunction stripping the United States of land, period, and you cannot have any litigation over title -- sought under the Quiet Title Act is title in the plaintiff. That's the relief ultimately sought. MS. MILLETT: No -- JUSTICE SCALIA: Now, on the way to that, you may -- you may get some injunctive remedy, but the basis for the lawsuit is -- is not: I own the land. MS. MILLETT: With respect, Justice Scalia, you can get no injunctive relief whatsoever even if you are asserting title. But the Quiet Title Act itself is brought -- it limits relief to monetary compensation, unless the government agrees to a specific relief. JUSTICE SCALIA: No, but the relief to be JUSTICE SCALIA: Relief in that kind of suit, Official a(a): "A civil action -- " JUSTICE SCALIA: Excuse me. I guess I've MS. MILLETT: I'm sorry. I'm on the addendum Title Act. MS. MILLETT: Yes -- JUSTICE SCALIA: Relief in that kind of suit. yes. But this is not that kind of suit. MS. MILLETT: But -- no. Justice Scalia, with respect, on page -- this is a of the addendum to our brief, a(a), the type of suit that is addressed, and to which the Indian lands exception applies, is a suit -- and I'm reading here from the second line of lost you. to our -- the blue brief, a, and this is the Quiet JUSTICE SCALIA: Okay. MS. MILLETT: And right -- subsection (a), the second line, all right: "The waiver of sovereign immunity is for a civil action under this section to "Under this section." MS. MILLETT: Yes. JUSTICE KAGAN: And the section describes the adjudicate a disputed title." It does not say -- JUSTICE KAGAN: Ms. Millett, it also says: complaint. It says: "The complainant shall set forth MS. MILLETT: No, Justice Kagan, in this title or interest. And the language that you read, with particularity the nature of the right, title, or interest which the plaintiff claims." mind is a suit in which the plaintiff claims a right, "under this section," well, that's what this section is about, a suit in which a plaintiff claims the right, title or interest. respect. That tells you what you have to do if you are allowed to proceed under the statute to win, the first step of what you have to do. But what subsection (a) says is what is carved out, what is a wholesale -- and this Court said in Mottaz, a retention of immunity, even wrong administratively, as in Mottaz. What you do -- have done is retain immunity. When the -- the section here right under the sentence I read, Justice Scalia, about this section does not apply to trust or restricted Indian lands, what that meant was that this -- that Congress, against a backdrop of complete immunity, said: We've looked at lands, we've studied what we're doing, and we are not doing two things, and we're going to be explicit about it. We are in the face of arguments that the government has done Official So the type of suit that this section has in not letting you touch Indian lands. The United MS. MILLETT: They are -- this section is, I Official JUSTICE SCALIA: You can say that again and MS. MILLETT: This -- JUSTICE SCALIA: And if this section applies States may not be named -- again, counsel, but it does say "under this section." And I don't -- I don't know how you get out from under only to suits seeking to assert title on the part of a plaintiff, it's not under this section. think, defined by what Congress's waiver of sovereign immunity. And it didn't say we're waiving sovereign immunity for quiet title actions. It says for a civil action in which the United States' title is disputed. don't -- you can't believe that totally because you agree there is some APA review of an action brought before the title shifts where, the claim is, you cannot bring some. that, I stop at the words, not just "under this MS. MILLETT: Absolutely. Before title -- JUSTICE BREYER: Okay. Once you agree to So quieting U.S. title -- JUSTICE BREYER: But that -- but you that. It says "under this section." take title, Secretary. You agree with that. You can section," but "to adjudicate a disputed title to real Official MS. MILLETT: I think there's a constructive amendment in this sense, because if it's only JUSTICE BREYER: I don't know what a Then I read his complaint. His complaint, on property. And maybe they went ahead and did it anyway, property." to , is asking for an injunction, and it's asking for an injunction before they take any title to the but is there some other complaint that I didn't read? Is there some amendment to the complaint in the record? If so, where is it? thing with -- constructive amendment is. explain. If I can explain. To be sure, the complaint, which was untimely filed for purposes of the protection of the government's not taking it into -- into trust, but the set -- it did seek to stop the decision from happening. After that happened, when he did not seek appeal or emergency relief from the district court not giving him the injunction he asked for -- he asked for a preliminary injunction to stop the taking of title. The district court didn't give it. It actually sat on it, constructively denied it. And it's well recognized in MS. MILLETT: Well, let me see if I can Act didn't apply, then it did apply because title was in courts of appeals, you can appeal a constructive denial of a preliminary injunction. He didn't do that. shifted. Sovereign immunity shifted. The Quiet Title the hand and in the name of the United States Government. answer how his -- his complaint constructively changed. MS. MILLETT: And so after that, he had two choices. He could have dismissed the action as moot. But what happened is he continued to press -- and this is on page of his brief, his court of appeals brief, at page and -- he wants an injunction now, not to stop title, but to take title out. And that's when the Quiet Title Act -- tell us how it constructively changed to be an action seeking to have a decree that title was in him, which is Act -- MS. MILLETT: No, it was -- JUSTICE SCALIA: Okay. MS. MILLETT: No, because the Quiet Title JUSTICE SCALIA: I thought you were going to what the QTA covers. Official This is the way litigation works. Title JUSTICE SCALIA: I thought you were going to JUSTICE SCALIA: So even constructively, it Official MS. MILLETT: The Quiet Title Act, when it sorry. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Counsel, you're assuming JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Counsel -- MS. MILLETT: And against the back -- I'm hasn't turned into that. says -- when it says the only way we'll give you a relief is if you can establish that you have an interest in the land, forecloses suits seeking to adjudicate -- adjudicate, excuse me -- disputed U.S. title by those who don't even have an interest. that the statute was passed against a backdrop of complete sovereign immunity, but if you look at Larson and Malone, it appears as if prior to the enactment of had acted beyond his or her statutory authority. So what the Quiet Title Act did was encapsulate some of that law. brought under something like the APA, or an officer suit? himself then testified before Congress, the law was a mess, and you could not discern anything from Larson, the QTA, people could bring suits to say that an officer From where do we draw the conclusion that the intent was to eliminate every other claim that could be MS. MILLETT: To be clear, as Justice Scalia Official And Congress responded to hardship, but in And -- and it said we're going to draw lines, Indian lands, no injunctive relief or coercive injunctive relief at all will be allowed. If -- if you have a right, you will only get damages unless the government agrees otherwise. And to prevail, you must have an interest in land. Malone. And the one area where actually courts have pretty consistently denied relief, as Justice Scalia then said, was in the land area. doing so, it was making a critical balance. It knew how disruptive to government it is to pull the rug out from under the feet of the Federal Government's operations. and there's three lines. It said: No suits involving that we will not -- a moment, let's suppose the tribe -- the -- Mr. Patchak brings a nuisance action against the tribe for running a surrounding previously rural community. He says this is a nuisance. do this under the Indian Gaming Regulation Act. And Patchak then says: Well, no, because you don't have casino and imposing all these difficulties on the Now, that is a concerted judgment of Congress CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Could I say, just for And the tribe answers and says: No, we can Official Now, that is not a quiet title action. That the Secretary. that suit? MS. MILLETT: He could -- he could bring a CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Right, right. MS. MILLETT: And so there'd be their own valid authority under that Act because the Secretary shouldn't have taken the land into title. is a nuisance action. Can he have that adjudicated in nuisance action, assuming the tribe waives sovereign immunity, which would be its own problem. Assuming -- I'm assuming this is a suit against the tribe and not either State law or sovereign immunity questions, if he could bring it. And then if the government tried to preemption defense, then there would be a separate question whether at that point a court could issue, consistent with the Quiet Title Act, a declaratory judgment which would pull the rug out from the be no -- MS. MILLETT: Now, to be sure, in the -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: -- question of his government's feet. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Right. But there'd raise this as -- or, excuse me, the tribe raised it as a ability to sue and put that question at issue. Official CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, but that's a MS. MILLETT: There's no question he could bring a -- assuming tribal sovereign immunity, that he could bring a nuisance action, but it's also important to remember in that context, the other reason that nuisance action would fail is that the courts have already ruled on this claim about the legitimacy of authorization of gambling, about the environmental effects and the esthetic effects in the MichGO litigation. This is simply recycled through the IRA claims that have already been adjudicated and lost. question that's not before us. MS. MILLETT: So -- but with respect to the question of judicial review that was mentioned earlier nuisance action for -- this is sort of being case-specific with respect to claim preclusion and issues like that. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel. MS. MILLETT: Thank you, Your Honor. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Mr. Nelson. ORAL ARGUMENT OF MATTHEW T. NELSON and I think would be implicated, obviously, in a ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTS MR. NELSON: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice, and may it please the Court: Official This is a classic APA action. Mr. Patchak is trying to get that property back. not affect the nature of Mr. Patchak's lawsuit. challenging unlawful agency action. Mr. Patchak is not asserting a quiet title action where someone asserts an interest in property owned by the government and is And as this Court has already discussed, the best evidence of that is the fact that Mr. Patchak filed this suit before the land was taken into trust. The fact that the government subsequently took the land did JUSTICE GINSBURG: But he didn't file it within the -day window, so that -- that is -- there was a clear track. He could have filed within days, and at least the government tells us that that would have been subject to judicial review, the ruling made within -- that nothing would go on until that action was cleared. any title transfer, why isn't that all the relief someone in his position would be entitled to? Why should he be allowed to wait? I mean, the whole purpose of the -day window is to get people to state their objections. window is a notice period. Mr. Patchak did in fact file So why -- if he could have sued early, before MR. NELSON: Justice Ginsburg, the -day Official namely that the Quiet Title Act springs up to bar this is my property and I want it back or, with regard to the government, at least pay me for it. his lawsuit within the -year statute of limitations provided by Congress for APA claims. And the reason that the Secretary adopted the -day notice provision is the very argument that we believe is misplaced here, judicial review after the land is taken into trust. We don't believe that's the case, because Mr. Patchak is not asserting a Quiet Title Act action, which is limited to those claims where someone says, window only applies to quiet title actions. action, the -day window would apply. JUSTICE SCALIA: Surely -- surely the -day envisions comments by anybody, not just people who claim to own the property, doesn't it? MR. NELSON: Your Honor, certainly it provides for comments, in that people can come and assert their comments. Absolutely. But it doesn't prevent someone from asserting a lawsuit. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Would you have been entitled to file in that -day period? How is your JUSTICE SCALIA: You -- you say the -day MR. NELSON: Your Honor, the -day window -- yes, if someone was asserting a quiet title Official JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: All right. Tell me what MR. NELSON: Your Honor, the relief that -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Just the -- what's relief at the end of the day do you want? you -- what relief are you seeking? Aren't you seeking to shed the United States of its title? MR. NELSON: Justice Sotomayor --JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Same claim; right? MR. NELSON: It is the same claim, yes, Your claim, the one that you ultimately made, any different than what you would have done if you had filed within the days? Honor. relief you're seeking that's different than -- are the -- don't tell me what your cause of action is. What MR. NELSON: Justice Sotomayor, Mr. Patchak is seeking a declaratory judgment that the decision of the Secretary that it can take land into trust for this particular band of Indians is incorrect, and that therefore, the decision to do so is ultra vires; and as an incident to that relief, now that the government has taken the land into trust, that the land now be taken out of trust. That does not convert this, though, into a quiet title action, because Mr. Patchak is not asserting Official The relief of the quiet title action will be quieted in the plaintiff. The relief that action, there's another question, which is whether sovereign immunity can come into effect after a suit has been filed. It seems to me a hard question, and one that has not been briefed by either party particularly. an interest in the property itself. provides -- has two parts. It both provides for -- that title will be taken from the government, and that title Mr. Patchak is seeking does not include quieting title in himself. question aside of whether this is or isn't a quiet title sovereign immunity cannot come into effect after a suit has been filed? Because what the government says is, you know, circumstances change, conditions change on the ground, sovereign immunity can pop up where it didn't negate that? time prepared to say that there is or is not. I do know that we have cited in the footnote in our brief the -- I So I just ask you, is there case -- are there any cases that you can point to that suggest that exist before. Is there any precedent that you have to JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Nelson, putting that MR. NELSON: Your Honor, I am not at this Official before the Court. JUSTICE GINSBURG: The government answers to believe it's the Grupo Dataflux case that indicates that jurisdiction is decided at the time that the complaint is filed. Because the D.C. Circuit specifically reserved this issue, we did not believe this issue was that, that's in diversity. You know, you determine citizenship as of the date the complaint is filed. If the citizenship of a party changes, so it coincides with someone on the other side of -- of the line, it doesn't matter. But do you have cases other than diversity cases where the filing of the complaint -- nothing happens, nothing that can happen after affects the jurisdiction as set as of the time the complaint is filed? I don't know, outside diversity, where this principle has applied. MR. NELSON: Your Honor, I am not at this time aware of any cases. I'm not, unfortunately, in a position to say that the cases do not exist or do exist. Circuit briefing, but I'm not aware at this time of any cases that would -- that address this specific issue. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: The Solicitor General in footnote of his reply brief says that's the general rule, which I take it there might be exceptions to it. I believe the issue was addressed in the -- the D.C. Official limited now to trust lands. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Counsel, is there any limit to who can bring an APA action under your theory? MR. NELSON: Exceptions. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But I'm sure he'll tell us what those are. It seems to me that what you're saying is that anyone other than a landowner because of the Quiet Title Act can within years attempt to unravel any decision the government has made to take land, because we're not We're limited -- under your theory, whenever the government takes any kind of land, anyone's entitled to come in and challenge that action under the APA for years, and to seek an injunction because it isn't a quiet title action. It's merely a challenge to the decision to take land. can bring that kind of action and -- regard to this Court's prudential standing analysis would obviously provide a limitation, but second, with regard -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: In which way? You're saying anyone who's affected, your niece, your farm Is there any limit to your theory as to who MR. NELSON: Justice Sotomayor, yes, there is a limit on who may assert these actions. First, with Official government improperly took the land. Undo it. interests to assert that claim. I think that the zone of interest test does exclude people who might have Article III standing from asserting these types of claims. owner's niece who comes to visit twice a year or visits the land and walks through it, could presumably say: I'm negatively affected by the government's taking of this land, Indian or not, within the years, and the MR. NELSON: No, Your Honor, I don't believe that my -- that my client's niece would have prudential standing because I don't think that you could -- that that person would arguably be within the zone of thought the government concedes that a NEPA action could -- could be brought when the government is taking land to use for a particular use. Let's say it's -- it's taking land for a nuclear waste repository. Certainly, a NEPA action would -- would lie. You don't disagree with that, do you? sir, good." MR. NELSON: We don't disagree. JUSTICE SCALIA: You're supposed to say "yes, JUSTICE SCALIA: I thought that -- maybe I'm wrong, but the government will correct me if I am. I (Laughter.) suit under the APA. MR. NELSON: Only to the extent that the land I'm talking about under your theory of law, once land question -- counsel, my question was different. Under your theory, you could bring this suit after the land has been taken. NEPA assumes before the land was taken. has been taken by the U.S., if anyone has a viable legal claim that the land was taken improperly, whether it's Indian trust land or anyone else's land for any other purpose, that person within years can still bring a is taken as a result of administrative action. mean -- mean -- sorry. You answer it as you want according to There is a difficult question here. The difficult question is what happens if one brings an ordinary APA suit before land is taken, before that suit can be decided -- before that suit can be decided, the government takes the land. Does that transform it into MR. NELSON: I'm sorry. JUSTICE BREYER: I thought -- I JUSTICE BREYER: No, no, no. You can't -- I JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Government land is always taken by administrative action. Official JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: No, but my your argument. Official it after they take it, it's a quiet title action. But I haven't found -- I mean, that's a don't know what authority there is. And is it fully argued in the briefs? So what -- isn't that what -- you're thinking -- I think Justice Sotomayor is thinking, well, and you just said you can bring it after. I don't know if you can bring it after. a quiet title action? The obvious answer, which isn't obvious at all, is that the answer is that it's a proper APA suit if you bring it before they take it. And if you bring And -- and that would seem to me a first-blush answer. question we don't -- I don't know if we have to answer that question. It seems to me quite difficult. And I say. that the land is taken into trust does not transform the action into a quiet title action simply because the government -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Forget about the trust. MR. NELSON: Okay. So go answer now -- (Laughter.) JUSTICE BREYER: And I want to hear what you MR. NELSON: Thank you, Justice Breyer. The fact that this -- the fact -- the fact So going back to Justice Breyer's question, why isn't that within the quiet title action with whatever definition of prudential standing you want of what -- what the APA permits you to do, anytime the government takes land, whether into trust or for any other purpose, the APA permits someone within years, to give it, to come in after the taking and challenge that it was ultra vires, that it was done improperly. That's your theory. prohibition -- government's hands? hands, it is -- it does not -- once the government acquires the title, it does not change the nature of the APA action, because the Quiet Title Act is limited to -- don't think you've made and I don't think you would want to make. You're not asserting that the action can be brought anytime within years after the government has already taken the land. You're just asserting that an MR. NELSON: Your Honor -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- once it's in the JUSTICE SCALIA: You're not -- you're answering the question with regard to an argument I MR. NELSON: Once it's in the government's Official JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Because under your theory action brought before the government takes the land does Official MR. NELSON: Yes, Your Honor. JUSTICE SCALIA: You're not saying that MR. NELSON: Absolutely not, Your Honor. JUSTICE SCALIA: Thank you. (Laughter.) JUSTICE ALITO: What would happen now, as a not change its character and become a quiet title action afterwards; right? anybody can bring within years after the government's taking a suit, are you? I hope you're not arguing that. practical matter, if Mr. Patchak were to -- were to prevail? I take -- I understand the casino's built and running. So what would happen? out of trust and would revert to the tribe. told us that the land didn't belong to the tribe in the first place. sure as to what the status of the title was. Our understanding is that -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: Well, the government did say that the Band was not the prior owner of the tract. MR. NELSON: Your Honor, what would happen here, to our understanding, is the land would be taken JUSTICE GINSBURG: But I think the government MR. NELSON: Your Honor, I'm not entirely So where would it go? Official MR. NELSON: Your Honor, the -- it depends in under Michigan law, the land would vest in the intended company that involves ownership both by a group of Las Vegas investors and also, to my understanding, the Band itself; although I could be corrected on that. part, I believe, at this -- at that point, based on State law, what the effect of the Court's decision would be. Would it render the trust status void? If so, beneficiary, which is the tribe. If it -- if it does not, if the entire action would be undone, the land would revert back to the prior owner, which, to the best of my understanding, is a part of it was agricultural land, and that another part was a business. I mean, I think -- I thought -- well, the government can correct me. partially agricultural and partially light manufacturing. That was how it was zoned. parcel. The Bradley tract was, I believe, a single parcel for the purpose of -- JUSTICE BREYER: But your injury, your injury is that it's being used for gambling. So is JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Was that the -- I thought MR. NELSON: Your Honor, the land itself was JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Right. MR. NELSON: But it was all owned as a single Official And that would cure your injury, and it MR. NELSON: Your Honor, we -- we looked into and wanted to make an argument that somehow you could wouldn't require the government to give back the land, there room for relief that could say the government can do what it wants to the land, it just can't let it be used for gambling, if you want. and it wouldn't require any unscrambling, and title could rest in the government. I don't know if that's possible or not possible. separate the trust title status and the Federal Government's fee simple interest. And in looking at the deed itself, it doesn't look like that can be done. if any, in the Indian Reorganization Act itself that show a concern for the kind of standing that you're alleging here? environmental effects and so forth under the the Indian Reorganization Act. So I don't see -- I understand how that might give you standing, but how does it give you a cause of action for relief under the Indian Reorganization Act?Indian Gaming Act, but yet your primary suit is under JUSTICE KENNEDY: What were the provisions, It seems to me you're talking about MR. NELSON: Your Honor, land -- Official JUSTICE KENNEDY: The Indian Reorganization JUSTICE KENNEDY: does, but you're going MR. NELSON: Correct, we're under , say anything about the public interest. MR. NELSON: Yes, Your Honor, section of Act, just to help pursue the question a little bit further, has a provision about the public interest, but not in the section that you're relying on. It doesn't the Indian Gaming Act -- under . Your Honor. Justice Kennedy, I would point to the fact that the land is authorized to be taken into trust for Indians, and when land is taken into trust, it is implicated, anyone who is affected by that use -- people who live in close proximity to that land -- are within -- are arguably within the scope of those people who Congress would expect to enforce --JUSTICE KENNEDY: What is the specific provision of the IRA that you rely on? You -- do you go back to ? Because there's nothing in that answers your -- this question, I don't think. MR. NELSON: Your Honor, I agree that section does not specifically reference the public interest. necessarily implicates the use. And as soon as the use Official Congress authorized the land to be taken into It does, however -- the intent in is to have land taken into trust. And I don't believe that you can separate the fact that the land is being taken into trust from the specific use to which it is being put. trust for a specific use. And you can see, in fact, that the government has reached the same conclusion. When you look at the regulations that the Secretary has adopted in consideration of section , they not only address land use, the tribe has to identify the use to which the land will be put, but they also require the tribe to identify any conflicts of land use, which clearly addresses the fact that other people are going to be affected by the land use. Consequently, those -- and we believe those -- those regulations are subject to Chevron deference because they fall within the scope of the authority delegated to the Secretary, and they don't conflict with the broad delegation there in the -- in different question, going back to what -- Justice Alito's question. It does seem that we may be wasting our time. I'm not suggesting that the State -- that the case is moot, but you did wait for some years before section . So -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: That's helpful. Just a Official was filed. At that point, in spite of the knowledge of MR. NELSON: Your Honor, in fact, the APA reserves the laches defense, and the laches defense has you brought this suit. The building was built. It seems to me there's a considerable laches problem. I suppose that's just not before us. been asserted here. But I would point out that the casino hadn't -- the casino did not open, and they did not move forward with this until after the land was taken into trust, which was months after this lawsuit this Court's decision in Carcieri, they made a reasonable business decision to move forward with this, knowing the risk that they were taking, that the entire basis of them being able to operate a casino and engage in class gambling could be overturned. MichGO suit, not yours. our suit had been filed -- filed at that point. JUSTICE KAGAN: But, Mr. Nelson -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: But that was under the MR. NELSON: Correct. JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Nelson, could I MR. NELSON: No, Your Honor. They knew that JUSTICE KENNEDY: Oh, your suit had been Official understand the scope of your argument? Because I had understood -- let's take the timing question aside for a minute. Let's -- let's assume that you had filed this suit after title had transferred. I had understood that your argument was, yes, you should be allowed to do that because, even though this was filed after title had transferred, yours is just not a quiet title action. And it's not a quiet title action because you're not seeking title yourself. argument? nothing to do with the question of timing. Your prior to your filing your lawsuit. is a logical result, but we do not believe that the Court needs to address that issue in this case because our argument is much stronger than that because we did, in fact, file suit before the land was taken into trust. JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, as I understood your brief, pages of it were about one thing, and there's one footnote that's about something else. MR. NELSON: Yes, Your Honor. JUSTICE KAGAN: So your argument really has argument would be the same even if title had transferred In other words, all of your brief is Isn't that the question? Isn't that your MR. NELSON: Your Honor, we believe that that Official So, I mean, the briefing in this case is all MR. NELSON: Your Honor, I would disagree that it's our weakest point, but I do agree that says: By the way, we started this lawsuit before the basically saying: Ours is just not a quiet title action, and so we should be allowed to proceed irrespective of when the government acquires title. And then you have this little additional argument which government had title anyway. about what you now say is your weakest point. the -- that the logic here of the position that this is not a Quiet Title Act action means that even if the government acquires title to the land while the suit is pending, that logically, it would then follow that the action remains an APA action, and it is not converted into a quiet title action. pushed you into it. It's my fault. You're right. and -- and moot out a suit that was -- by its unilateral action, right? MR. NELSON: Yes, Your Honor. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I mean, they seem to recognize that it would be a bad thing, since it's only JUSTICE SCALIA: I think you're right. I CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: And the proposition would be simply that the government can't go in Official wasn't -- didn't they have some encouragement from a MR. NELSON: Your Honor, there was the Eighth by their grace, they've told us, that they don't do it right away anyway. They give people days. MR. NELSON: Correct, Your Honor. JUSTICE GINSBURG: But didn't they -- court of appeals suggesting there might be a due process problem if they didn't have that notice? Circuit decision -- I believe it was United States v. Scalia's argument was a bad argument. I thought it was a rather good argument. If in fact you go back and you take the view that any suit filed to review APA is not a quiet title action, people could go upset government title to property years and years later. And they would say: Oh, well, we're not challenging the title; we're just challenging what happened when it was taken, the South Dakota or South Dakota v. United States -- in which the Court there found that the lack of judicial review pushed towards the conclusion that the Reorganization Act is an unconstitutional delegation of the legislative authority. And that was one of the reasons, or that was the reason cited in the Federal Register, for why the Department of Interior adopted the -day notice provision. JUSTICE BREYER: I don't think Justice JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Is that because you don't title was taken. blush. So therefore, I thought you -- yours is different because you filed before they took title. But as I say, Now, your answer suggests you've been going both ways. Sometimes you think, well, it matters that we filed before. And other times, you think, no, it doesn't matter. have a theory as to why once the government takes it, it's not a quiet title action? by its terms requires that the person who is asserting the one that Justice Breyer has said. Then it doesn't -- and the one Justice Kagan repeated yet again -- okay? What difference does it make that the government has taken title? Whether the government has title or doesn't, under your theory, since this is not a quiet action -- title action, anyone who is unhappy with the way the government took title could challenge it within years. Isn't that the bottom line of your JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So answer my question, or MR. NELSON: Your Honor, the Quiet Title Act the action had an interest in the property. Official That can't be right, it seems to me, first I'm uncertain of that distinction. theory? Official MR. NELSON: No, Your Honor. The defenses would be laches. The zone of interest would apply. MR. NELSON: Yes, Your Honor. Anyone -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Absent laches. You say person can't sue, but anybody who is an indirect person can sue within years, anybody who says, I don't want the land, I just don't want the U.S. to have the land. the only defense is laches. Other -- any other defense -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But the bottom line is, under your theory, as long as no landowner, the person most directly affected by the taking, as long -- that distinction I think has to be made there. the property, absent there being trust land, can sue to upset the government's title for years under the Quiet Title Act. They could bring a claim under the APA for up to years to govern the -- or to challenge the transfer. They can only get money. can only -- for the -year period, they can only government's decision to take the land -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But they can't undo the MR. NELSON: No, Your Honor. There's a The -- someone who has a right, title, or interest in MR. NELSON: Under the Quiet Title Act, they undo -- they can -- excuse me. The government, if they Official JUSTICE KAGAN: I think --JUSTICE SCALIA: Of course, the government prevail, the government, correct, has the option of deciding whether to pay for the land or to -- to give it up. can fix that. I mean, if this is indeed an inconvenient situation, that we think the government should not be in doubt for years afterwards, I guess Congress can simply change it; right? MR. NELSON: Yes, Your Honor. JUSTICE SCALIA: Totally within the control of Congress. We -- we -- we don't have to make up some limitation to protect -- to protect the United States. Mr. Nelson, though, is whether you can provide us with a reason why Congress would have wanted what you call quiet title suits -- and I agree that your definition is plaintiff is a -- is himself asserting a right or interest -- why those suits should be barred, but your suit involving a third party should not be barred. MR. NELSON: I agree, Your Honor. JUSTICE SCALIA: Yes. JUSTICE KAGAN: I suppose the question, the traditional definition. When somebody -- when the What could possibly be the reason to distinguish between those two sets of cases? Official Now, you might just say, I don't have to give what would you say? MR. NELSON: Your Honor, I guess I would same claim that Mr. Patchak can, in spite of the fact that they have that right, title or interest, under the APA, as long as they do not seek under the APA to quiet title in themselves. you a reason, this is what the result of the statute says. But if I say, just try to provide me with a reason why Congress would have wanted that distinction, first say that because relief under the APA is different than relief under the Quiet Title Act, someone with a right, title or interest in the property can assert the Honor, I have to acknowledge I've lost the track of your question. reason? When you prevail in a quiet title action, the only way the government can get off the hook is to give you the land, if it's -- if it's within, what, the years, or pay you money if it's after years, but within . Whereas in your case, I suppose the Have I responded or can you restate it? JUSTICE SCALIA: What -- what about this as a Second, with regard to why this provision would -- this provision is there -- I'm sorry, Your government could moot the suit -- moot the suit, by Official that they can have -- I mean, this suit could Can the government do that? MR. NELSON: Your Honor -- JUSTICE SCALIA: Once it has told the tribe simply disallowing gambling. be -- could go away so long as the tribe does not run a casino; isn't that right? That's your -- that's the gravamen of your complaint. be a happy fellow if -- so long as the tribe doesn't build a casino. Whereas in -- in quiet title cases, the only way you can make a happy fellow out of the Honor. cede the remainder of my time. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel. Mr. Miller, you have minutes remaining. REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF ERIC D. MILLER ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS IN NO. - JUSTICE KENNEDY: Mr. Miller, one -- one question, if -- if I may. The government takes the plaintiff is to give him the land. MR. NELSON: Or to pay him for it, yes, Your MR. NELSON: That is the gravamen of the injury. Yes, Your Honor. JUSTICE SCALIA: So I guess you -- you could Unless the Court has any further questions, I Official Is there some midway position that the characterization of your position. And the Respondent position -- at least this was the way the Respondent puts it -- that it can basically moot their action by turning this into a quiet title action just by taking title. And let's assume that that's one on the other hand says, oh, well, this is an APA action, we can -- we can wait forever, at least for years. government can't moot the case too soon, that it must wait a reasonable time? Or is there no basis in the statute or in the cases for that position to hold? MR. MILLER: If I understand correctly, you're asking about a case where the -- the lawsuit is filed before the land has been transferred. restricting the government's ability to do that. I mean, short of the plaintiffs obtaining an injunction from the Court. I guess the broader point I would make about that timing question is that the -- the court of appeals -- you're -- you're sticking with your position. You say you can basically moot a suit at any point you want just JUSTICE KENNEDY: Yes, yes. MR. MILLER: I don't know of any basis for JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, in other words, by taking title, so you're -- you're not accepting any JUSTICE KENNEDY: All or nothing? Okay. MR. MILLER: -- it would be exactly the same, error in that analysis is -- is that the question here is not whether Patchak's suit is a Quiet Title Act action. The question is whether the Quiet Title Act expressly or impliedly precludes relief under section , and the answer to that question is yes. qualification to that proposition. would just emphasize that that was not the basis of the -- the ruling of the court of appeals. The court of filed, and under the Court's analysis -- even if it was filed later. And I think the -- the that. The first is that the general principle recognized by this Court in Brown v. GSA and a number of other cases is that when you have a narrowly drawn remedial scheme for a particular subject, that that the Quiet Title Act is exactly such a scheme. It's the mechanism for adjudicating a disputed title to real property in which the United States claims an interest, and it has its own procedures, its own statute of precludes resort to more general remedies. And here, And I'd just like to make two points about Official MR. MILLER: That -- that is our position. I appeals held that it doesn't matter when the suit is limitations -- Official MR. MILLER: I think -- for two reasons. And a(a), which is, you know, to adjudicate a disputed title to land on which the United States claims an interest. That's a perfect description of what this case is. JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, but -- but in saying that you've just broadened it, or arguably, you have. If -- if you think that the quiet title action is really about the narrower set of cases, which is when a person himself claims title, how can you get from that to say that there is an express or an implied refusal of -- of this kind of claim? the first is, just that -- that first sentence of And the second is that the last sentence of section directs our attention to whether the relief is expressly or impliedly forbidden by another statute. And the relief that is sought here is an order compelling the Secretary to relinquish title on behalf of the United States to this land. And -- not sure that there aren't any others, but --CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What specific -- do other consequences other than the ability of the Secretary to take land in trust flow from whether or not a tribe is recognized in ? MR. MILLER: I -- I'm not aware of any. I'm JUSTICE SCALIA: All right. Do you have any Are you sure that's good for the government? MR. MILLER: Well, this action would be concern that the government will get hoist by its own petard? your argument leads is that this individual, or any individual claiming that the government took title incorrectly, can sue under the Quiet Title Act, even if they don't claim that title was taken from them. barred under the Quiet Title Act because the Quiet Title Act expressly precludes this relief, where -- where Indian trust land is at issue, where the relief that's sought is an injunction compelling relinquishment of only time the government takes land, right? section (d), requires in a suit under the Quiet Title mentioned earlier your footnote in your reply brief about whether the time of filing question for sovereign immunity purposes is limited to diversity cases.Act the plaintiff to identify his interest in the land. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Mr. Miller, I title without the option of paying damages -- JUSTICE SCALIA: Of course, that's not the MR. MILLER: Well, and the Quiet Title Act, Official What your argument -- the conclusion to which Are there -- you cite one case. Are there Official that there aren't any others. One point I would make on that is just refer over the border in -- in Indiana, instead of in MR. MILLER: I'm not aware of others, but -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What -- MR. MILLER: -- I can't say with confidence and may change that in the course of the litigation. And I think that's another analogy that might be instructive here. others going the other way? you to the Florida Prepaid case from , which was about State sovereign immunity, and which explained that a State may condition its waiver of sovereign immunity CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So this suit would come out the other way if the person objecting was just Michigan? Because there would be -- it could be brought as a diversity suit. be -- sovereign immunity would still apply. Sovereign immunity would bar relief, even if the basis for jurisdiction were diversity rather than -- MR. MILLER: Well, it would -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I'm assuming --MR. MILLER: It would be still CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Even if it were a suit against the tribe, it would still be not a Official CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Okay. Thank you, counsel. if the citizenship of the parties changes during the The case is submitted. (Whereupon, at : a.m., the case in the diversity action but a Federal cause of action? MR. MILLER: Our -- our point is that the reason it's barred is because of sovereign immunity. When -- the time of filing in diversity cases refers to course of the litigation. That doesn't -- my understanding is that doesn't defeat diversity. That's the nature of that exception. above-entitled matter was submitted.) Official OfficialOfficial A ability : : : able : : : above-entitled : : absent :, Absolutely : : : accepting : account : acknowledge acknowledged : : : :,, agree :, : : : :, :, : : :, agrees : : :, :, : : : : :, agricultural :,,, :, :,,, ahead : : : : :, : : :,,, :, : Alito's : :,,, Allegan : : :,, allegation : : : : :, actions : : : allegedly : addendum : alleging : AL :,, ALITO :, alleged : : : : Article : artificial : aside : : :, : : : : :, :, : :,, : asked : : : :, : :, : : appeal : :, : : asks : assert : asking :, : : : : : asserted : appealed : appeals : : :, asserting : : :, : :, : : : : : :, :, : : APPEARAN... acquire : acquired : acquires : additional : :, acquisition : address : : : Act : : : : :, allow : allowed : : : : : : : appears : applied : applies : : : : asserts : Assistant : associated : assume :, : : assumes : : : :, answer : addressed : announcement : : :, : adjudicated : : adjudicating allowing : amendment :,, addresses : adequate : analogy : adequately : analysis : adjudicate :,,, :,, :,, : :, : :, : :, :, : : :, :, : : : : : :, : :,, :,,, : acted : : acting : : administrativ... anybody : : :, action : : anyone's : anytime :, anyway : :, : answers : : apply : : assuming : :,, : : : : : : applying : assumption : April : attempt : area :, attention : arguably : Attorney : authority : : : : : : : authorization : : : : : :,, argued : arguing : :, : argument : : : :,,, : : : : : : : : : : : :, :,,, aware : : : :, : : :, adopted : : : : : :,, :, : adverb : : :, adversely : :, : affect : :,, :, agency : APA : : : : a(a) : a.m : : authorized : : availability : available : : : : answering : administrative arguments : : : : : : : : Official built : : business : : : : :, bystanders : change : : : B bit : blue : blush : back : : border : : : bottom : : : : : : : : Bradley : Breyer :, : backdrop : : : bad : : balance : band : : : : : bar :, : : barred : :, : : barring : based : : basically : :, basis :, : : : : :, : : behalf : :, :, : : : : : : believe : : :, :,, : :, : : :, : belong : beneficiaries : beneficiary : benefit : best : : beyond : BIA : : : :,, : :, : :, :, : : : Breyer's : brief :, : : : : :, :, : : :, : briefed : briefing : : briefs : : bring : : :, :, :, :, :, :, : : brings : : : broad : broadened : broader : brought : : : : : : : :, : : Brown : bugaboo : build : building : CC : : call :, : : :Carcieri :carry :carved :case :, :, : :,: :: :: :: :: ::, : : ::,cases ::,,,: :: :: :: :case-specific:casino ::,, : :casino's :cause :: :cede :certainly ::certifies :challenge :,:, :, : ::, : : :challenger:challenging : claiming : claims : : : :,,: :,: : :,:, : : : : class : changed :, classic : changes : :, : : : : cleared : clearly : clear : : character : characterizati... : : client's : close : coercive : Coeur : coincides : come : : :, : : : Chevron : Chief :, : : :, : : : : : :,, :,,, comes : : : : :, : comments : : : :,,, : :,community:, : : choices : Circuit : :, : circumstances : : cite : cited : : citizenship : : : civil : : : : claim :, : : : : :, : : :, : :,, : : : : : : company : compelling : : : compensationcomplainant: : complaining: complaint : :, : : :,,:, : :,,,: complete : : completed : complied : concedes : : : : : : : :, : : : :,, : Congress's : correct : : : : : : corrected : correctly : counsel : : :, : : : : : concern : : concerted : concession : conclusion : : : : : contemplates context : : : continued : continues : contracts : condition : conditions : control : convert : confidence : conflict : converted : conflicts : confused : Congress : : conscientiously County : : consequences :,, : course : : : : : : : Consequently court :, : considerable : consideration : : considered : considering : : consistent : consistently constitutional : : constructive :, : constructively : :, :, : : :, : : : :, : :, : : : : : : :, : :, : :, courts : : : : court's : : : : : covers : : Official criminal : critical : cure : Dd : :, : : ::Dakota :,damages ::Dataflux :date :,:DAVID :,day :days : : : ::deal :decided ::,deciding :decision ::, : :, : : ::, : : decisions : declaratory : : decree : deed : defeat : defects : defense : :, :, defenses : deference : defined : definition : :, delay :, delayed : delegated : delegation : : denial : :, : : : : disruptive : denied : : distinction : : : denies : Department : : dependent : depends : : describes : description : designed : determination determine : determining : : : deus : development : : : difference : different : : :,: : : : difficult : : : difficulties : directly :,: directs : disagree :,:, : disallowing : discern : discussed : discussion : : dismissed : disputed : : : : distinguish: district : : :,diversity : :, : :, : :,doing :,doubt : : : draw : : drawn : due : duties : D'Alene : D.C :, : :,EE : :, earlier : : :early :economic :: ::effect : : : :effective :effects :,Eighth :::either :: :elements :eliminate :eliminates :else's : Official exception : filed : : emergency : emphasize : employee : enacted : enactment encapsulate : : encouragement : enforce : enforceable : : engage : enjoin :, ensuring : enter : entire : : entirely : entities : entitled : : : : environmental :,, : : envisions : ERIC : : : : : error : ESQ : :, :,,, essence : establish : : esthetic : ET :,, evidence : ex : exactly : : :, :, example : : :, : exceptions : : : exclude : excuse : : : : exist : :, expect : explain :, explained : explicit : express : expressly : : : : extent : Fface :fact :, : : :,: :,,:,,: :,: :: ::facts :fail :fall :falls :farm :fault :Federal : : : :: :fee :feet : : fellow :,figure :file : : : : : :, : : :, : : :, : :, :,, :,, :, : :, : :, filing : : : : : find : first : :, : : : : : : : :, first-blush : fix : Florida : flow : follow : : : footnote : : : : forbidden : forecloses : : forever : Forget : : forms : forth : : forward :, : : :, found : : : FTCA : full : : fully : further : : : G G : gambling : : : : : : gaming : :,,,: : : : gather : general : : :,:,generally : Ginsburg : :, : : : :, : give : : : : : :, : : :,:gives :giving :go : : : :: ::, : goes :going : : : :,: :: :,: :,: : : :, : :good :: :govern ::government : :,: :: :, : : : : :: :,: :,: :: :,: :,:,,,:, : :,,,:, : :,, : :,,,: :,:, : :,, : : :,: :,,:governmental:government's: :: :: :,: ::, : grace :Grand :grant :granted :gravamen :::ground :,: :group :Grupo :GSA :guess :: :: ::Hhand : : hands :, Official happen :, : :, : happened : : : happening : : happens : : : happy :, hard : hardship : havoc : hear : : hearing : held : help : helpful : he'll : hoist : hold : Honor : : :, :, : : : : :, :, : : :, :,, :, : : :, :, : :,, :, : : :, : hook : hope : I idea : identify : : : identity : IGRA : III : immunity : : : :,, :, : : :, : :, : : :, : :,, : :, :, : implicated : : implicates : implied : impliedly : : : important : : imposing : improperly : : : Inasmuch : incident : include : inconvenient : incorrect : incorrectly : independent : Indian :, : : :, : : : : :, :, : : : Indiana : Indians : : : : indicates : indirect : individual : :, industry : injunction : :,,, :,, : :, :, : : : : : injunctive : :, : : injury :,, :, : : instructive intended : : : intent : : : interest :, :, : :, : :, :, : : : : : :, : : :, : :, : : : interests :, : : : Interior : : interrupt : investment : investors : involves : involving : : IRA : : : : ironic : irrelevant : irrespective : issue : : :, : :,, : : issues : it'll : Jjudge :judged :judgment :: ::judicial : : :, : : :: ::jurisdiction: : : :, :, :jurisdictional: ::, : :, : :,,, : :, :,,, :, : :,,:,,,:,,,:,,, : :,: : :,,,:, : :,,:, : :, : :, : :,,:,, : :,,,: :,:, : : : :, : :, : :,,: KJustice : : :, :, : :,,:, :, : :,,:, :, :,,:,, : Kagan :, :, : :,,, : :, :,, :,,:, : :,,, :, : :, : :, : Kennedy : :,,, :,,, :, : : :, :, : :,,, :,, :, : :, : knew : : :,, : :,: :,:, : :, : :, : kind : : : :,: : know : : KEN : : :, : : : :, :, : :, : : : knowing : knowledge : L L : laches :,, :,, lack : lacks : land :,, :,,,, : :,, : :,,, :,,, : :, : :, :,, :, : : :, : : :,, : :, : :, : :, : :, : :,, :, : :,,,,, :,, : :, : :, :,,, :,, :,, :,,,, :, : : : :,,, : : : : :,, :,, landowner : landowners : : lands : : : :, : : : language : Larson :, Las : Laughter : : : law :, : : :, lawsuit : : : :, : : : : lays : leads : left : legal : legislative : legitimacy : letting : let's :, : : :,, : lie : light : : limit :,, limitation : : limitations : : : limited : :, : : limits : line :, : : Official : lines :, litigate : litigation : : :, : : : means : :, : meant : :, : : : : : mentioned : mechanism : little : : : : : mere : merely : live : local : : mess : logic : logical : logically : long :, MichGO : : : : : :, : :, : :, mind : : : : : minute : minutes : misplaced : moment : : monetary : money : : months : moot : : : : :, : :,: :, look : : : : looked : : : looking : lost : : : M machina : making : Malone : : manual : manufacturing : Match-E-Be-... : : matter : : : : : : matters : MATTHEW : : : mean :, : :, : : : : :, : Michigan : : : : N: midst : midway : Miller : : Mottaz :,move : : morning : N :, : name :named :narrower :narrowly :nature : : : :,, :, :, :,, :, moving : : :,:, : : :,: :,:, : :,,: :,:, : :, : : :,: :,:, :, :,,:,,,: nearby :necessarily: :::necessary :needs :negate :negatively :negotiated:negotiations :Nelson : : :,,: :,Millett : : :,,,:,,:,,,:, : :,,:, : :, : open : operate : operations : party : : plaintiff : : : parts : : place : : okay : : :, officer : oh : : : : : :,,, :, : :, : : :, :, : : :, :, : :, : : :, old : : :, once : :,, : : :, : :,, : :, : :, : : :, : ongoing : :, : :,, : : : : : : NEPA : : :, : : : never : newly : niece : : : normal : notice : : : : :, : nuclear : nuisance : : :, :,, number : : opportunity : : : option : : oral : :,, : : : order : : :, : : organization : outset :, outside : : overturned : : owned : O O : : object : owner : objecting : : : objection : owners : objections : ownership obtain : obtaining : owner's : obvious :, obviously : : P: P : not-yet-compl... ordinary : Patchak's : Official page : : : :, pages : parcel :, part : : :,, partially : : particular : : : particularity : particularly : parties : : : : : : permits : : :, practical : precedent : precisely : preclude : person : : precludes : : : : : :, : : : persons : petard : Petitioner : : : : : :, : : : : preclusion preemption : : preliminary : : Prepaid : press : presumably : pretty : Petitioners : prepared : : passed : : Patchak :, :, : : prevail : : : : :,, : : : : : : prevent : prevented : plaintiffs : :, : :, : :, : :,, : please : : :, : : : point : : : : : : previously : primary : principle : : principles : prior : : : : private : problem : : : procedure : :,procedures: proceed : : process : prohibition: promise : promote : : : : PATRICIA : : : pay : : : : paying : pending : :, : people : : : : :, : :, : :, perfect : period :, :,, : : : : :, : : : : : :, : :, :, : : points : policy : : pop : pops : position : : : :,,,, : possible :, possibly : Pottawatomi : : Official promoting : proper :, : properly : property : : : : : :, :, : : : : : : proposed : proposition : : protect :, protected : protecting : protection : provide : : : : provided : provides : : :, : :, provision : : :, : :, provisions : proximity : prudential : : : : public :,, pull : : purpose : : : : : : purposes : : : pursue : pushed : : put :, : : : :, : : :, puts : putting : QQTA :,,: :: qualification : question : :,, : : : :, : :, : :, : :, :, : : :, :, : : :, : : : : : : :,, : : quieted : quieting : : quite : RR :raise : : raised :Rapids :reached :read :,:,reading :real : : reality :really :: ::reason : : : ::, : :, : reasonablequestions : : : : :reasons :: :quiet :,, REBUTTAL: :: ::recognize :recognized: :, : : : :, : :, :, : record ::,,, recycled :: :, refer : : :, :, : :, reference :refers :: :, refusal ::,, : :, regard :: :, : :, : : : :, : : :,,, Register :regulated ::, : :regulation ::: regulations : : :, : : :, reply : : : repository : request : require : : regulatory :, : requires : reliance : : : relief : : reserve : reserved : :, : reserves : :,, :, : resort : respect : :,,, :,,, : : : :, : : :,,, : :, :, :, : :, Respondents:, : : : : : :,Respondent:,: relinquish : rest : responded : : : : relinquishment : : restate : restricted : restricting: rely : relying : : : remainder result : : : retain : retention : remaining : reverses : reversing : remains : remarkable revert : : : : remedial : remedies : remedy : remember : removed : removing : render : Reorganization : :, : : : repeated : : review : : :, : : : : : : : : :,reviewing : : right :, : : : :, : :, : Official :, : sort : : : : see : : : : : : : :, : :,, : :, Scalia : : : :, : : :,, : : : :, :, : :, rights : risk : ROBERTS : seek : : :, : : :, : :, :,,, : :, :, : :, :, :, : : :, :, : self-governance :, : :,, : :, :, seeking :, : : : : :,,, : : seeks : send : sense :, : : started : : :, : soon : : sorry : : state : : : : : : : :, statement : States :, Sotomayor : :, : : :, : :,, :, : :, : : :, :, : : :, :,, sought :, :, :, : : : South :, sovereign : : : :,, :, : : :, : : :, : :,, : :, :, : : : : : :, : : :, : : :, : : :, status : : : statute : : :,, : : : : : : : : statutory : stay : : : step : sticking : stop : : : : strikes : sovereignty : strip :,, stripping : speaking : stronger : specific : studied : : : subject : :, : : : : specifically : : spite : : springs : stand : standing : :,, :, :, :, : : :, : :, submitted : : subsection : : subsequently: suddenly : sue : : :,,: : : :, : : :, : :, : : : :, : : : :, :, : room : rug : : rule : : ruled : ruling : : run : running : : rural : S S : : SALAZAR : sat : saying :, : : : says : : : : :, : : : :, :, :,, : : : : Scalia's : : sentence : :, separate : scenario : scene : scheme :, serve : scope : set : : : : : : : : : : : : second : : sets : : : : : Secretary : : : : : :,, : : :,,,, : : :, : : :, :, Secretary's : : section : :, : : :, : :,, :, : :,,,, :,, : : : setting : shed : shifted :, shifts : short : show : side : simple : simply : : : : : single :, sir : situation : :, : Solicitor : : somebody : : : : Somebody's : Official sued : sues : suffers : suggest : suggested : suggesting : : suggestion : suggests : suit :, : :, : :, : : :,, : :,, : :, : :, :,,, : : : : :,,, :, : : : : :, : : :, : :,, suits : : : :, : :, suppose : :, : : : : :,, : :, : : : : : : :, :, : : : : : taken : : : :, :, : : : : : :, : :,,,, :, : : : :, : :, : : : :, : takes : : : :, : : : talking : : : taxing : tell : : :, : tells : : terms : : test : : supposed : testified : Supreme :, Thank : sure : : :,, : : : : : : : : surely :, surrounding : T T : :,, : take :, : theory :, : :, :, : :, : thing : : : : things : : think : : : : :, : :, : : : : :, : :, : : : : : :, : :, : :, : thinking : :, thinks :, third : thought : : : :, : : : :, : : three : tied : time : : : : : :, :, : : : :, : timely : : times : timing : : :, : title : : : : : : :, : : : :,, : :, :, : :,,, : :, :,, : :,,, :,, :, :, :,,, :, : :, :, : :, :,,, :, : :,,, : : :, : :, : :, :, :, :,,, :,,,, : :, : :, :,,, :, : :,, : :, :,, : :, : :, :, : :,, :,,,, :,, told : : : tort : totally : : touch : track : : tract : : traditional : transfer : : treat : trial : tribal :, : tribe :, : :,, : :,, : : : :, : :, : :, : :, :,, : : tribes : tribe's : : tried : true :, :, trust : :, : :, :,, : : :, :, : :, : : : : :, : : : :, : : : : :, : :, : : : : : trusted : try : trying : : : :,, : Tuesday : :,, : : turned : turning : transferred : twice : : :,, : transform : two : : : : : : Official :,,: : : : : ::-day : : : :,,: :,: :,: :,:,,,: : : : : :,, :,,: :,: : : :, : : : :, : : :,: :: :,: :,:a :-year : : : U use :,, : : : : type : : types : : : : :,, : : : :,, wants : : :, : : :, : Washington : :, :, : :,, :,,, ultra : : :, uncertain : U.S : : : unconstitutio... ultimately : : wasn't : : : understand : : : : : : : : : : Vv :, : : : : valid : : understanding Vegas : : :, vest : :, : viable : understood : vicinity : : : waste : wasting : way :, : : : : : : : : : :, ways : weakest :, went : Westfall : : : Xx :,,,Yyear :years :,,:, : : :,: ::, : :,,: :,:Zzone : : :, : : :zoned ::, undertaken : undo : : : :, undone : unfortunately : unhappy : unilateral : United :, : : : : :, : : : : : : :, : : :, unlawful : unravel : unscrambling : untimely : unusual : upset : : view : vindicate : violation : : vires : : visit : visits : void : W wait : : : :, waive : waived : waiver : : : waives : waiving :walks :want :,: :: :: ::, : :, : wanted ::we'll : : we're : : :, : : : : : : : :, : - : : :, : : : we've :, whatsoever : - : : :, : :: :wherefore : wholesale : : : win : -year :window : : : : : :, : :, ::words : : : : a :, : :a(a) :works : wouldn't : : : : : wreak : wrong : : : : : : : : 