Official IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES v. Washington, D.C. Tuesday, October , Petitioner - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x UNITED STATES, : : No. - : JAMES X. BORMES : - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x argument before the Supreme Court of the United States at : a.m. APPEARANCES: JOHN G. JACOBS, ESQ., Chicago, Illinois; on behalf of SRI SRINIVASAN, ESQ., Deputy Solicitor General, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on behalf of Petitioner. The above-entitled matter came on for oral Respondent. Official C O N T E N T S PAGE On behalf of the Petitioner On behalf of the Respondent On behalf of the Petitioner ORAL ARGUMENT OF ORAL ARGUMENT OF SRI SRINIVASAN, ESQ. JOHN G. JACOBS, ESQ. REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF SRI SRINIVASAN, ESQ. Official P R O C E E D I N G S CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We will now hear (: a.m.) This Court's decisions have long established Mr. Srinivasan. ORAL ARGUMENT OF SRI SRINIVASAN ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER MR. SRINIVASAN: Thank you, that Congress will be deemed to have waived the Government's sovereign immunity only if it unequivocally expresses its intent to do so. argument in Case -, United States v. Bormes. Mr. Chief Justice, and may it please the Court: applied to a statute? Because if we start with the statute, which always seems to be where you're pointing us to, and we're only looking for a clear waiver of sovereign immunity, then there’ll never be another Justice Sotomayor. Of course -- like to be able to get around our clear statement rule? MR. SRINIVASAN: Well, they would have two there any situation today where the Tucker Act would be JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Under your view, is Tucker Act action in the future. MR. SRINIVASAN: There are such statutes, JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: What would they look Official obligations in the statute run against the United features consistent with this Court's decisions that have found the Tucker Act to be applicable. One would be that the statute does not contain its own remedial mechanism, and the second would be that the substantive States, and the United States alone. And an example of that type of statute is the one that this Court found to be supported by the Tucker Act in White Mountain Apache Tribe or in Mitchell II. Those are the kinds of statutes as to which I think the Tucker Act was meant to apply. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So basically -- I'm not sure why we're even addressing the issue of Tucker Act jurisdiction. We should have really just been briefing sovereign immunity -- to you, the operative question. addressing Tucker Act immunity is because Tucker Act immunity is the basis for jurisdiction in this case according to the reasoning of the Federal circuit. MR. SRINIVASAN: Well, of course -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- because that becomes, the issue of whether the statute at issue here waives MR. SRINIVASAN: It does when they're dealing with the statute like this. And, of course, the reason that we’re Official adding the Tucker Act as a jurisdictional basis in the And it's not at all clear why a plaintiff already concluded that the unequivocal expression test, the standard test applied for waivers of sovereign immunity, was not satisfied. And the problem with the reasoning of the Federal circuit is it allows the litigant to readily circumvent the Court's strict test for sovereign immunity waivers by the straightforward device of complaint. couldn't do that for any claim under any statute, including a statute as to which this Court would have this, in Lane v. Pena, the court concluded that for Rehabilitation Act claims under Section of the Rehabilitation Act, there was no unequivocal expression of an intent to waive sovereign immunity by Congress for purposes of damages claims; and, therefore, a damages claim can't be brought against the United States there’s no apparent reason why a plaintiff couldn't bring a damages claim against the United States for a violation of Section of the Rehabilitation Act by adding the Tucker Act to the jurisdictional bases in the under Section . But under the Federal circuit's approach, Now, to give the Court a concrete example of Official detract from the ability of the Federal circuit to conclude that the statute, nonetheless, can be fairly interpreted to mandate the payment of money. complaint. Because if the plaintiff were able to do that, notwithstanding this Court's decision in Lane V. Pena, the result would be that the plaintiff could say, the Federal circuit, you should look at the statute and ask the question whether it can be fairly interpreted to mandate the payment of money by the Government. There’s no unequivocal expression of an intent to waive sovereign immunity, but that doesn't Now, of course, if that issue were to arise, we would make the argument that the statute can't be so read. But the possibility that a plaintiff could make that argument, notwithstanding this Court's decision in Lane V. Pena, we think reinforces the need to conclude -- to conclude that the Tucker Act can't be applied in the way that the Federal circuit sought to apply it here. ask -- following up on my question -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Could I ask you -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Srinivasan -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I’m sorry, I was going to Official its own remedial scheme? a Tucker Act remedy. Under your new approach, that holding is MR. SRINIVASAN: Well, the -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- because the FLSA has MR. SRINIVASAN: Sure. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- many courts have held that the FLSA has an express waiver of sovereign immunity. And many of them have recognized, if not all, incorrect, I presume -- MR. SRINIVASAN: I think one -- one way to look at the FLSA, if we're looking at it in the first instance, would be to conclude that the FLSA itself has a waiver of sovereign immunity. And so you wouldn't look to the Tucker Act as the basis for the waiver of sovereign immunity, and you would look at FSLA in the way that we think you should look at FCRA -- excuse me, the Fair Credit Reporting Act, or FCRA. necessarily view the statute in that way. But if you apply the framework that we think is the correct one to apply, as we set forth in our brief, you might reach the same conclusion under the Fair Labor Standards Act, Now, Your Honor is correct that there is a body of court of claims jurisprudence that doesn't although under a slightly different route. Official JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But then the Federal go to -- MR. SRINIVASAN: Well, it would depend. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: It has the same language as here, in -- you can bring your suit in any Federal or state court of competent jurisdiction. circuit has no jurisdiction over those claims, according to you, because the waiver is in the FLSA, it has its own judicial remedy. They’re not authorized, then, to There is a little bit of an anomaly in the FLSA because the FLSA doesn't necessarily point to any particular court as the basis of jurisdiction. MR. SRINIVASAN: Right. It says: "In any Federal or state court of competent jurisdiction," but brought in district courts and a court of competent jurisdiction. MR. SRINIVASAN: Well, I think one way to potentially see the difference -- and I'm not going to quibble with -- with what Your Honor's saying, but one way to potentially see a difference is because the FLSA So one way -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I don't know -- I don't only refers to courts of competent jurisdiction -- it this statute specifically allows for claims to be see the difference between -- Official Here, (p), which is set forth at (a) court of competent jurisdiction. So that's a potential basis for drawing a know, why should we read the Tucker Act to reverse doesn't have a free-standing provision that reversed the district courts -- it's possible to read that statute as essentially incorporating the Tucker Act as setting forth what the court of competent jurisdiction would be. and (a) of the appendix to the Government's brief, speaks specifically about actions being brought under FCRA in any appropriate United States District Court, and then only, it goes on to talk about, or in any other distinction between the two. JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Srinivasan, what you say has a good deal to recommend it, and it's basically, you everything that we know about sovereign immunity, but it's really hard to get that from the text of this -- the Tucker Act. are asking us to reach? MR. SRINIVASAN: Sure. I do, Your Honor. The text of the Tucker Act, it's true, if you read the text to apply to its full potential reach, then the Do you have any textual argument for the result that you argument would be more difficult; but, the text of the In fact -- I mean, I guess my question is: Official MR. SRINIVASAN: Well, I guess --JUSTICE KAGAN: -- against any statute. Not any statute except the ones with remedial provisions, but just any statute. Tucker Act has never been read that way, including by this Court itself, starting with Nichols v. United States -- JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, that's not really a textual argument. That's an argument about how we've sensibly limited the reach of the Tucker Act. But the Tucker Act does seem to include what your friend there says it includes -- -- if you read the Tucker Act to its full textual reach, argument is that when the statute refers to claims founded on any act of Congress, it was never intended to apply literally to any conceivable act of Congress. And, in fact, this Court's own test for money mandating -- the money mandating test that applies to the Tucker Act embodies that understanding because -- JUSTICE SCALIA: I assume you’re appealing to the textual principle that the specific governs the general. Isn't that what's going on here? MR. SRINIVASAN: We're appealing -- MR. SRINIVASAN: Sure. I guess you -- you I think we would have a more difficult case. But our MR. SRINIVASAN: We're certainly relying on Reporting Act into play, yes, we're absolutely relying on the specific versus the general proposition, as this Court has relied on in any number of cases. more general provision, and you are saying it's -- it's overcome by a more specific provision that provides for compensation, but excludes the Federal Government. that, Justice Scalia, when you're asking whether the Tucker Act can be used as the basis for waiving sovereign immunity for claims under the Fair Credit Reporting Act. So when you bring the Fair Credit question to be talking about the Tucker Act and the Tucker Act alone, without bringing into play any other statute. Now, I take Your Honor's point that it's hard to conceive of the Tucker Act in that kind of isolated fashion, because usually you'll be asking a question whether a claim can be brought against the United States And so if that statutory regime includes its own remedial mechanism, as FCRA does, it's hard to avoid resort to the specific control as a general proposition. But the other point about construing the text of the Tucker Act alone is that the Tucker Act is a I guess I understood Justice Kagan's Official JUSTICE SCALIA: That the Tucker Act is a under some other statutory regime. Official And so the Court has never construed the waiver of sovereign immunity. And so the canon that we construe waivers of sovereign immunity strictly comes into play when we construe the terms of the Tucker Act itself. And I think it stands to reason that when you apply that canon, you wouldn't read the Tucker Act to encompass fully any act of Congress, because the implications for waivers of sovereign immunity would be quite substantial. Tucker Act that way, and it shouldn't countenance that kind of construction now, which is effectively what the Federal Circuit's interpretation allows, because, rather than applying the strict standard under which Congress would have to be seen to have unequivocally expressed an intent to waive the Government's sovereign immunity in the terms of FCRA, it allows a plaintiff to avoid that by simply resorting to the Tucker Act in the jurisdictional basis of a complaint, and getting the real act by the Federal Circuit's own description JUSTICE GINSBURG: The United States -- the United States is governed by the substance of the Credit Reporting Act. The Act applies to the Government, but your point is there's no sanction for noncompliance, even though the United States, a standard that applies to the Tucker Act. And the reason I would say that is that, Government system, is supposed to conform to the standards in the Act. responses, Justice Ginsburg. First, on the question of whether the United States is subject to the substantive obligations in FCRA, I don't know that's there's a one size fits all answer. I think you'd have to go provision by provision and make an assessment. with respect to certain provisions at least, there are other statutes that, depending on the provision, have a specific obligation against the Government. And I'm thinking in particular of the Debt Collection Improvements Act, the Privacy Act in certain contexts. with respect to the particular FCRA provision that's alleged to run against the United States, would the better basis for finding the United States' obligations be some other statute that speaks more specifically to So I'm resisting the notion that the -- the FCRA's references to "person" in all of its substantive obligations would necessarily encompass the Government. Now, there's at least one provision as to which we don't And so you have -- you have to ask the question whether, the question. Official MR. SRINIVASAN: Well, I guess a few deny that the Government is covered, and that's Official the Government has entered into with credit card companies that allow the Government to participate in the credit card system. As a condition -- (b)(b)(b), and that provision is set forth at pages -- at page a of the appendix to the Government's brief. And with respect to the particular provision at issue in this case, the truncation provision, I guess we don't have to confront the question of whether the Government is bound by that provision. It might well be, but we don't have to confront that question, because the Government acts as if it's in compliance with that provision because it has to. at -- Government reports; the conditions for furnishing. And then if you go to a -- that's also part of (b)(b) -- b(b) has an exception for national security investigations. And it talks at (b)(b)()(A) about "in the case of an agency or department of the United States JUSTICE SCALIA: You said a. MR. SRINIVASAN: Well, I'm sorry. It starts at a. And the -- a, permissible purposes of There's a series of network agreements that JUSTICE SCALIA: Excuse me. b(b)(b), you said? Where is that case? MR. SRINIVASAN: (b)(b). If you look Official JUSTICE SCALIA: Right. MR. SRINIVASAN: -- it stands to reason that answer. But the other part of your question is, are we taking the position that even if substantive obligations run against the United States, there still wouldn't be a remedy, at least a remedy in damages against the United States? And the answer to that is yes. Government which seeks to obtain and use." And because there's a reference to the United States Government in that provision -- the term "person" in (b)(b) -- which starts at a; excuse me -- encompasses the United States Government. I guess the short answer, Justice Ginsburg, is I don't think that there is a one size fits all But Congress is very careful to cabin the circumstances in which the Government would be subject But that's not at all atypical under this Court's sovereign immunity jurisprudence, and it's not at all atypical for Congress to have fashioned a scheme that runs in that way. And the Privacy Act at least is one example, where in the Privacy Act, which applies to the Government and the Government alone, there are certain obligations that the Government has to comply with in that statute. to liability and money damages. Official JUSTICE SCALIA: Still in all, your argument is -- is not just a straightforward specific governs the general argument. I mean, that would be the case if -- if the other statute which the plaintiff is trying to run around through the Tucker Act specifically -- it clearly prohibits suit against the Government. Then you would say, you know, the specific governs the general even though the govern -- the Tucker Act permits it; this statute prohibits it. Justice Scalia, I think that's a distinction that ultimately doesn't make a difference in the context of this case. In the prior cases in which this Court has applied the specific over the general canon in related contexts, it's true that the statutes in some situations contemplated liability against the United States, but it had -- that statute would have certain limitations. But you're saying this other statute here does not really prohibit it. You're just saying this other statute does not permit it under our usual rules about waiver of sovereign immunity being strictly construed. So, you know, it's a -- it's a -- it's a difference -- it's an odd sort of a specific governs the general argument. MR. SRINIVASAN: I think, with respect, And I'm thinking, for example, of Hinck, of Official to a different statute, the Tucker Act, to circumvent Okay? But here, you don't have -- you don't have that negative implication at all, do you? Erika, of Brown v. General Services Administration, cases like that, and Sheehan. And what the Court said was, where a statute provides for liability against the United States, but in certain situations, you don't look those kinds of limitations. JUSTICE SCALIA: No, but that's -- that's because the negative implication of that statute is -- affirms that there is no liability of the United States. think we need to have that negative implication to that full extent in order to invoke the specific versus the general canon, because the question at the end of the day is what did Congress intend? And where Congress enacts a specific remedial scheme that sets out the extent to which liability will be imposed under, in this case, the Fair Credit Reporting Act, it stands to reason that Congress would have expected courts to look to the remedial scheme that it established to determine to metes and bounds of liability, not to some other general default provision. MR. SRINIVASAN: Well, I guess -- I don't JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Srinivasan --MR. SRINIVASAN: And therefore in that Official brought under FCRA. Would you be making the same argument? MR. SRINIVASAN: If -- if the statute were sense, the specific remedial scheme that's in the statute should control over some other general scheme that Congress might well not have had in mind at all when it set forward the terms under which claims can be JUSTICE KAGAN: How specific does the other statute have to be? Suppose there were another statute that just said any party can bring suits to enforce any rights against any persons under this statute. that general? statute says. It just says any party can bring suit to lot of hoopla and a lot of detail about a remedial scheme. Would you still say that -- this controls over the Tucker Act? determination on the scope of liability for claims under that statute. It would have given thought to that issue, and it would have set forth in a very general provision the metes and bounds of the liability. And Congress I think in that context wouldn't have expected MR. SRINIVASAN: I think I would, because I think in that context, Congress would have made a JUSTICE KAGAN: Yes. If that's all the enforce rights under this statute. So there’s not a Official Now, in Your Honor's hypothetical, if you But on the question of whether you'd look to anyone to look to the Tucker Act, because Congress gave no indication that it was thinking about the Tucker Act. had a statute that spoke in those kinds of general terms, of course, we'd have I think a very good argument that there would have been no contemplation of a waiver of sovereign immunity. So we would strongly resist the notion that the United States might fall within the compass of that general provision. whether -- whether the Tucker Act eliminates for all other statutes the presumption against liability on the part of the United States? that general provision as opposed to the Tucker Act, I think you would look to that general provision, because Congress in the context of enacting that statute told everybody: We're defining the extent to which liability can be asserted in court by reference to this general provision; this is where you ought to look, not somewhere else. MR. SRINIVASAN: It does. I think it does. And I think that's quite a breathtaking proposition, and Now, one other -- JUSTICE SCALIA: Isn't it really -- doesn't the question come down to as you're putting it Official CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, then it's way around, right? The Tucker Act discusses MR. SRINIVASAN: Well, it would be hard to not one that Congress would have intended by virtue of the Tucker Act -- really the specific governing the general, but the other specifically the liability and the sovereign immunity of the United States, and if the statute just generally doesn't address it, then the Tucker Act is the specific one and the other statute is the general one. argument, too, right? square that understanding with the way -- with the series of this Court's cases that apply the specific versus general canon, because I think the same argument could have been made in Brown v. General Services Administration, in Erika, in Hinck, that if you thought that the subject -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You'd win under this MR. SRINIVASAN: I'm sorry? CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You win under this argument, too. It just seems to me that it's not quite right to say that FCRA -- FCRA does not specifically address the liability of the United States. MR. SRINIVASAN: Right. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: The Tucker Act does. Official MR. SRINIVASAN: Well, that's the question JUSTICE SCALIA: In which case you would MR. SRINIVASAN: It -- well, you can look at So the Tucker Act is the one that's specific, and it applies instead of the general language in the -- in FCRA. it that way, Mr. Chief Justice, but I guess my only response -- lose, not win. because it depends on -- construe the Tucker Act. construing the Tucker Act's waiver of sovereign immunity only to apply to a certain limited subset of acts of Congress. And if you construed it in a sufficiently limited way, I suppose we could live with that result. But I think the better way to approach the question is to look at the particular remedial scheme that Congress enacted in the scope of the statute itself. And for purposes of questions of sovereign immunity, you'd look to that particular remedial scheme and ask the age-old question, countenanced by this Yes – you better resist it. -- it depends on how you JUSTICE SCALIA: MR. SRINIVASAN: I mean, I think Your Honor is correctly Official JUSTICE SCALIA: So what is covered by the Tucker Act? I mean, every -- every basis for suit MR. SRINIVASAN: There -- well --JUSTICE SCALIA: So what -- MR. SRINIVASAN: -- not claims in contract, Court's decisions, of whether there is an unequivocal -- unequivocal expression of an intent to waive sovereign immunity in the scope of that statute itself. against the Government, every claim that the Government owes you money rests upon some statutory text, doesn't it? for example. Obviously, if there is an expressed contract with the United States, I don't know that that comes under a statute, necessarily, but -- clause. That doesn't come under a statute, it comes under the Constitution, but the Tucker Act can be used. comes under a statute, you would look to the other statute to see whether there is sovereign immunity under that statute; and, if there is under that statute, then the Tucker Act does not overcome it. MR. SRINIVASAN: If that statute -- at least JUSTICE SCALIA: Okay. Express contracts with the United States. Anything else? MR. SRINIVASAN: The just compensation JUSTICE SCALIA: Okay. But anything that Official MR. SRINIVASAN: Right. And I think there Another example that I could give the Court But I think this is where I started off with Court had before it in White Mountain Apache Tribe are ones. if that statute has its own remedial scheme, then you'd look to the remedial scheme in that statute. Justice Sotomayor. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: That's exactly what I started with. That's what I started with: Is there anything left to the Tucker Act? is. I think the -- statutes like the one that this is there is a statute that dealt with payment of compensation to prisoners of war. This was the statute that was at issue in Bell v. The United States. I think it's cited in footnote of the Court's opinion in Bowen v. Massachusetts. But that statute specifically set forth that compensation would be owed to prison -- prisoners of war remedial scheme. Its substantive obligation ran against the United States, and the United States alone, by nature. held in captivity. That statute did not have its own And the Tucker Act, I think, in that context would step in to supply a waiver of sovereign immunity Official JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So the new rule is if a must do X, Y, and Z, and the Government and the Medicaid provider have the burdens of accomplishing Y, unless there is an express waiver of sovereign immunity, the Tucker Act doesn't come into play. and jurisdiction in the Court of Federal Claims. And the reason is that that statute has the two predicate conditions that we think have to be met in order to even raise the question whether the Tucker Act steps in. statute is written to impose obligations only on the Government, then the Tucker Act is implicated immediately. If the rule says the Government and any party who contracts with it -- a Medicaid provider -- MR. SRINIVASAN: I think that's --JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: That's your position. MR. SRINIVASAN: I think that's right, Your Honor, but I'd qualify it in one respect, which is that if -- if the statute contains its own remedial scheme, that's an independent reason for not looking at the JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, you are not going to suggest that if the scheme I just described says X, Y, and Z, have to do all these things, and someone to whom they owe that obligation can sue the Medicaid Tucker Act. provider, for example, for breach of that obligation, Official MR. SRINIVASAN: That's right. I think you JUSTICE KAGAN: How about if a statute has MR. SRINIVASAN: Right. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- unless there is an statute itself, which is the traditional test that this Court has applied. presumably -- I'm putting in a lot of hypotheticals given our case law -- but you're saying they can't sue the Government under the Tucker Act -- express waiver. would look to the question of whether there’s been a sufficiently expressed waiver in the terms of the no remedial provision at all; it just lists a set of legal obligations, but it’s a generally applicable statute, it doesn't concern only the United States? Would your argument still apply that the Tucker Act has no force? it's easier where you have a remedial scheme, obviously, substantive obligation is a generally applicable one and doesn't run against the United States alone, you'd still, I think, want to -- JUSTICE KAGAN: So then your argument really isn't about another statute having a remedial scheme. MR. SRINIVASAN: Yes, it would. I think but I think it's also the case that where the Official a remedial scheme, we don't look to the Tucker Act; we MR. SRINIVASAN: That's true. I mean, but I guess -- you don't have to reach the question of whether the Tucker Act applies or the statute doesn't have its own remedial scheme, obviously, in this case, because FCRA does have its own remedial scheme. Our argument would still apply. In the briefs, you present it as another statute has a remedial scheme, of course you should look to that more particular remedial scheme. But you would take the argument and say, even if the other statute doesn't have just think of the Tucker Act as having a limitation that is not in the Tucker Act's test -- text in order to make the Tucker Act consistent with everything we thought we knew about principles of sovereign immunity? the Tucker Act in one particular way to a subsets of acts of Congress, I guess one point I'd make is that the money mandating test that this Court has always applied where the Tucker Act does apply already presupposes that it doesn't apply to just any act of Congress, because the act of Congress has to be a money-mandating one. Give me the last sentence again. And on the question of whether we're reading JUSTICE SCALIA: Say it again. I lost it. MR. SRINIVASAN: The last sentence, the last Official JUSTICE KENNEDY: But is this a money-mandated statute? MR. SRINIVASAN: I -- if you didn't We don't get to that question, thought at least -- maybe I should try to rephrase it, but the last thought is that this Court's jurisprudence already presupposes that the Tucker Act doesn't apply to every act of Congress because the Court's jurisprudence requires that the act of Congress be money-mandated. So we’re already in a zone in which the Tucker Act's reference to acts of Congress doesn't literally extend to every conceivable act of Congress. It only extends to certain acts of Congress. And I -- have -- that's -- that's -- I guess -- if you didn't have the remedial scheme. in the abstract because the question is whether the statute is money-mandating in that it specifically Justice Kennedy, because you only get to the money-mandating question if there is not a remedial scheme in the text of the statute itself and the substantive obligation runs against the United States, and the United States alone, which this one doesn't because it's generally applicable. contemplates the payment of money by the United States; And it's hard to conceive of that question Official States, and the United States alone, and where there’s no remedial scheme embedded within the statute itself. And then you ask the question whether is that kind of substantive obligation that runs against the United States, is that one that's naturally conceived as a money-mandating. and, precisely because the statute is generally applicable, I think we would say that under this statute it's not money-mandating, because it's not money-mandating in that it doesn't contemplate payment by the United States with relevant specificity because the substantive obligation is generally applicable. You only get to that question in a context like White Mountain Apache Tribe or Mitchell II, where the substantive obligation runs against the United And on that, I think you would look at a couple of considerations consistent with this Court's decisions. One is, is the obligation one that necessarily deals with compensation? So, for example, the statute I was referring to earlier that has to do with compensation for -- for imprisoned prisoners of war, that one naturally has to do with compensation, so it might be money-mandating. In White Mountain Apache Tribe and the other trust cases that arise under the Indian Tucker Act, the Official MR. SRINIVASAN: -- is you only get to that JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- the statute awards damages for breach of the obligation, so it's But the principal point here --JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Counsel, this sort of Court concluded that because background principles of trust law would necessarily contemplate the payment of money, that those statutes are money-mandating. begs the question -- question if you get past that hurdle. money-mandating. The issue is not whether it's money-mandating; the question is who’s it mandating. It expressly awards -- money-mandating test, Justice Sotomayor, is whether it contemplates the payment of damages by the time addressing that question in the abstract, because there’s a predicate condition that hasn't been satisfied. MR. SRINIVASAN: Well, right, but -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But there is not an That question only naturally arises where the substantive obligation runs against the issue of whether it contemplates the payment of damages. MR. SRINIVASAN: But I think the United States. And I guess that's why I'm having a hard Official JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I -- it is -- there is hard to ask the question whether the statute is Medicaid -- X providers have to do X, Y, and Z; if those persons, being defined as Government and providers, doesn't do what they have to do, they have to pay these damages. United States and the United States alone. I think precisely for the reason that Your Honor says, where the substantive obligation is generally applicable in that it applies to parties beyond the United States, it's money-mandating in the relevant sense. some difficulty with your argument, which is, going back to my simplified hypothetical, Government and Justice Sotomayor, that that hypo is more difficult than this case because, although I would construe that to be generally applicable, it does talk about the Government. It specifically references the Government, and I think, by Your Honor's hypothetical, the United States alone. It's not an undifferentiated reference to persons, which is what you have in FCRA. clear. MR. SRINIVASAN: That -- I will grant --JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I mean, that's pretty MR. SRINIVASAN: Well, I will grant you, I still think I would call that generally Official ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT MR. JACOBS: Mr. Chief Justice and may it please the Court: If I may, I should like to begin with If the Court has no further questions, I would like to reserve the balance of my time. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, Counsel. Mr. Jacobs. ORAL ARGUMENT OF JOHN G. JACOBS applicable such that the Tucker Act wouldn't come into play, but I don't deny that it would be a closer case than what you have here. Justice Kennedy's question: Is this a money-mandating statute? Section (a) defines "persons" and it defines "persons" as, inter alia, "any Government or Government body or agency." That, it would seem to me, would be extraordinarily clear that the Government is subject to this act and subject to money-mandating. MR. JACOBS: We -- JUSTICE SCALIA: Just sue under the statute. MR. JACOBS: We could. We believe we should JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, you wouldn't -- you wouldn't need the Tucker Act now, would you? be able to recover simply under FCRA itself, yes, Your Official JUSTICE SCALIA: You also claimed under JUSTICE SCALIA: So are you splitting your Honor. But if there were any question as to whether the Government is in fact covered, that would seem to me to be answered by b(b)(). claim? I mean, if you have both a cause of action under FCRA and under the Tucker Act, the one has to go to the Federal Circuit and the other elsewhere, or the Court of Claims and then the Federal Circuit? What do you do? MR. JACOBS: Your Honor, that was -- that was the subject of some debate in the court below. We took the appeal to the Federal Circuit because the claim was based in whole or in part on the Tucker Act. FCRA, under the statute, right? mean, you're in the Northern District of Illinois, you bring a case under this Act. I guess you lost because deal? Appeal to the Seventh Circuit. Who cares. Why do you care which circuit you go to? You said you think -- well, why do you care? MR. JACOBS: Yes, we do, Your Honor. JUSTICE SCALIA: Okay. JUSTICE BREYER: So why do you care? I you wanted to appeal. And so -- so what is the big MR. JACOBS: We don't particularly care, Your Honor, but we believe that we are required by the Official JUSTICE BREYER: I guess you and the MR. JACOBS: I -- I -- I do not know, Your JUSTICE BREYER: This case is about you want to go to -- you want to go the Federal Circuit, they statute to appeal to the Federal Circuit if the claim is based in whole or in part on the Tucker Act. Government could have stipulated, we agree it goes to the Seventh Circuit, and nobody would have opposed you on that. Honor. want you to go to the Seventh Circuit? you get -- MR. JACOBS: Yes. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But if you -- their argument is if you go to the Seventh Circuit, you don't get any money, right? Because if you're getting money from the United States, don't you have to go to the Court of Claims in a case like this? MR. JACOBS: Right. JUSTICE BREYER: Okay. MR. JACOBS: And in (b)(b)(), the MR. JACOBS: I don't believe so, Your Honor. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: No? statute said -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I'm sorry. Before Official MR. JACOBS: I mean, (p) says you can Here, it's just a typical statute that says you have to do A, B, and C, and if you don't you can be sued in Federal court. sue either in district court or any other court of competent jurisdiction. And in that regard, there's been a lot of talk about the remedial scheme, and with respect, Your Honor, I would submit that this is -- this is not some reticulated, remedial scheme where you have to file a claim and have a hearing and those kinds of things where this Court has enforced that against people. statutes offhand -- I can't think of any, but maybe you United States but don't have to go through the Court of Claims and the Federal circuit? What other statutes are there? And if there are none, the reason I ask the question, it becomes less and less plausible that FCRA was meant to allow suit against the Federal Government. allows you to sue the Government in the district court. JUSTICE SCALIA: For money damages. MR. JACOBS: I believe so, Your Honor. JUSTICE BREYER: Not in tort. This seems an MR. JACOBS: The Privacy Act, Your Honor, JUSTICE SCALIA: Do you know any other know some -- in which you can get money out of the Official MR. JACOBS: The case is about printing the JUSTICE BREYER: Yes, can you do and/or or or. All right, got it. Now, if you print -- in your view of it, they printed too much about a person's credit card. awful lot like a tort, or tell me why it isn't. I mean, what you are saying is there's a statute that says you can't print more than the last five digits of a card or the date, the expiration date, and they did both and you want to say "or" means one or the other, it doesn't mean and/or. That's what the case is about fundamentally, right? expiration date, Your Honor. MR. JACOBS: It is like it, but I believe this Court's jurisprudence has been for a long while earlier, Dooley onward, that it doesn't make any difference whether -- if you're suing under a statute of the United States or a contract or anything else, if there's any element of tort in it, it doesn't matter. now, at least since Jacobs and I would submit even MR. JACOBS: Yes. JUSTICE BREYER: It sounds like an -- sort of like an invasion of privacy, which is normally a tort. JUSTICE BREYER: What do you mean? You can Official I don't know how this law works. I just sue for -- in other words, if the statute were to say, if Smith, a Government employee, assaults a person, he gets damages. Federal statute. Now he brings a claim -- I don't know this law; I'm asking, I'm not arguing. The plaintiff sues the United States for assault. And you're saying that they can bring that in the Court of Claims because it's a statute. read that and I know the language doesn't totally tell you. It's about liquid, illiquid. I didn't get that part exactly. But as I've understood it, you can't bring a tort suit in the Court of Claims. Now, that's what I would like you to elaborate, because this sounds rather like a tort suit, not sort of. That's why I am asking. Honor posed a very difficult question. I would submit that if the statute says that you may not do A, B, and C, that you could then sue in the Court of Claims. traditionally, you could think of that as a tort, I believe that's this Court's jurisprudence. JUSTICE BREYER: And the case I should look MR. JACOBS: As no doubt intended, Your JUSTICE BREYER: Even if it says you may not assault someone. MR. JACOBS: Yes. Even though Official MR. JACOBS: I think Daly -- Dooley, I CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But your argument --the exactions of taxes were tortious or not, we think your answer is a little more complicated, because the at to show that is what? That's all right if you don't have it. think, Your Honor, in said: "Regardless of whether this case is within one of the first class of cases specified in the Tucker Act of claims based upon a law of Congress." statute doesn't say tort claims, it says claims sounding in tort, which means cases that aren't torts, but are like torts. And it seems to me the case you -- you -- you have here is like tort, an invasion of privacy or MR. JACOBS: Your Honor, I believe, again, that this Court has not interpreted the cases that way. There is a debate as to whether a breach of fiduciary duty is a tort or something else, and yet this Court in White Mountain and other cases has -- has not found that to be a bar. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, your friend says that that's a fiduciary -- that's a trust breach, which has been regarded as different than a tort. something like that. MR. JACOBS: That's what the Government Official JUSTICE GINSBURG: May I ask you, Mr. MR. JACOBS: I'm sorry. JUSTICE GINSBURG: -- whether you think says, but it is also a breach of fiduciary duty, and that is often regarded as a tort, Your Honor. -- Jacobs -- Congress ever honed in on the issue whether the United States, given the multitude of financial transactions in which it engages, ever thought that sovereign immunity would be waived? I mean, if you're right about this, the consequences are enormous for the Federal fisc. And we -- the -- the statute developed in a peculiar way. First, there was the definition of person when there was no civil liability, and then some years number and the expiration date. In all of it, is there any hint that Congress envisioned a waiver of sovereign immunity in the Fair Credit Reporting Act? explicit reference in the Congressional Record to whether this was going to impact the Government or not. However, what they talked about was the almost epidemic proportion of identity theft going on, and in response later the prohibition of having both the credit card MR. JACOBS: Your Honor, I would submit yes, there is no explicit -- to my knowledge, there is no to that this bill was passed. Official Knowing that the Government is one of the sense. It doesn't make any difference where the immense liability, but they are not willing to subject the Federal Government to immense liability. That's what the doctrine of sovereign immunity is all about, isn't it? largest issuers of credit card receipts, one would have to wonder why they would want to exclude the Government in terms of protecting the public. That would not make credit -- JUSTICE SCALIA: For the same reason that you have the principle of sovereign immunity. They're -- they are perfectly willing to subject corporations to protecting the public, you wouldn't want to exclude such a large -- such a large thing. Government, as they did in (b)(b)(), when they Government's argument is that if your interpretation governed, we would be facing, really, a quite massive JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Jacobs -- MR. JACOBS: -- the next year. JUSTICE KAGAN: -- the -- the import of the MR. JACOBS: That's exactly correct, Your Honor. But that's why I said in terms of And when they wanted to protect the wanted to exclude them, they explicitly did so -- Official it. And the drafters say to each other, do we have to Now, under your world, the next time Congress passes such a statute and that question comes change in the law of sovereign immunity as we've known it until this time. So I will give you an -- Congress decides to pass a statute, and the statute has a cause of action in say that the Government retains sovereign immunity? And everybody says, no, the rules are that if we say nothing at all, the Government does retain sovereign immunity. up, you would say, oh, we have to say that the Government waives -- retains its sovereign immunity, because if we don't say that, somebody's going to bring an action under the Tucker Act. MR. JACOBS: With respect, Justice Kagan, I don't think that's true at all. They went out of their way to define person to include the Government. And have been written under the old rules and the new ones to come, we have completely flipped the presumption. Now, Congress is going to have to say when it wants to retain sovereign immunity, and if it doesn't -- if it doesn't, the Tucker Act applies, and you get to be in court. that's significant in this respect, Your Honor. We cite So for every statute, both the ones that Official The question is what standard are we going to hold you to. Are we going to say, all you need to show is that it's fairly arguable, or are we going to say, no, unless there's an express statement that the Government has waived its sovereign immunity, the Government retains it? the Moore case, Moore v. The Department of Agriculture, an almost identically worded statute, where it said, a Government -- JUSTICE KAGAN: I don't think that quite answers the question. That's a -- that's a question about what FCRA means and whether under any standard, whether the fairly arguable standard or the express standard, you should win. And that's a different question. presumption from now on. MR. JACOBS: I don't believe so, Your Honor. I think they went out of their way to say this applies. It's not some general statute that says if a credit card is printed improperly. JUSTICE GINSBURG: When the definition of persons was put into the statute, there was no civil liability; isn't that right? So they didn't -- they could not have been thinking about civil liability. And as to that, you're asking us to flip the Official MR. JACOBS: Well, when they amended FCRA in Now, in the appendix to the Government's any other provision of this section notwithstanding, And proof of that is found, I think, in two to add the -- to change the word from credit reporting agency to person, I would submit that had to be a conscious step. subsequent amendments. One, the next year, (b)(b)(), saying, but this does not apply to the Government if there is a national security issue. And then the Government pointed to (u)(i), that talked about if the FBI improperly disclosed information, what liability it would have. brief, it stops there. But in the Government's petition for cert at page a, it also has (u)(l) which says people are limited to this remedy against the Government. Why would Congress say that if there were not other liability for Congress -- for the United States? So, I believe the -- Congress was about as clear as it could be that it knew this applied to the United States, and when it wanted to carve something out, it did so, twice. Now --JUSTICE SCALIA: I -- I really have -- I Official MR. JACOBS: (l). JUSTICE SCALIA: -- shows that they had MR. JACOBS: Yes, Your Honor. I believe JUSTICE SCALIA: I mean, why anybody -- haven't followed this argument. You say (l) -- liability by the Government in mind? that -- notwithstanding any other provision, the remedies and sanctions set forth in this section shall be the only judicial remedies and sanctions for violation of this section. upon whether the United States is liable or not? MR. JACOBS: This (u) only applies to And that, Your Honor, takes me back to the Moore case, which we discussed many times in our brief, a similarly, almost identical statute, the Equal Credit United States, the FBI. (u) is explicitly passed with regard to the FBI getting information and improperly disclosing it. MR. JACOBS: I believe, Your Honor, that -- JUSTICE SCALIA: Why -- why does that bear JUSTICE SCALIA: I see. MR. JACOBS: And this would say, notwithstanding any other provisions, and it wouldn't do that if there weren't other provisions applicable. And then the -- the Fifth Circuit said, Official The Truth in Lending Act, the equal different parts of it. And the Equal Credit Opportunity any person -- it doesn't have an exception for the United States, unlike the Truth in Lending Act which had a specific provision exempting the United States. This is identical except for one word Opportunity Act. opportunity -- the Equal Credit Opportunity Act and FCRA were all part of the Consumer Credit Protection Act, Act had the same, almost the same definition with one word different of importance. there is no exception in here, once it says that, for different. This says any, the most emphatic word it could use. The other two statutes say, a Government or Government entity. This statute says, any Government or Government entity. that interpretation that is throughout our judicial throughout the United States now, the -- the United States no longer even attempts to argue that ECOA does not provide for waiver of sovereign immunity. JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, if you are right about that, I guess we could write a very narrow opinion And the United States makes no response to system. And, indeed, it would be difficult to because Official And, indeed, the -- the cases where the MR. JACOBS: Well, I'm hoping we won't make much new law, Your Honor -- JUSTICE SCALIA: Yes. MR. JACOBS: -- because I believe this is saying the Tucker Act applies where there is a cause of action under the original statute anyway, in which case we would not have made much new law, would we? consistent with this Court's longstanding jurisprudence. Court says, no, we're not going to let you bring this under the Tucker Act, is where the party is trying to escape, to get around a limitation in the substantive act, where they're trying to avoid a statute of limitations, avoid the requirement to file a -- a claim, as in Elkhorn Mining, as -- to get around -- get away from a court as in Hinck, where it says the tax court will have jurisdiction of this. And then they are trying to get around -- Congressional intent or statutory provision of FCRA. And the Government points to nothing -- no violence that would be done to the FCRA by allowing this. passed was to protect consumers. The Congress was clear That's not going on here. We're -- the Plaintiff in this case is not trying to evade any The -- the reason that this statute was Official that if any Government violates the statute, it has this liability. I do not know how you could have a clearer money-mandating statute. And, Justice Scalia, you asked, well, would we just win under the -- under the statute? My answer to that would be unequivocally yes, we should. It's an unequivocal waiver. And that's the irony here. I think you have a -- a more unequivocal waiver in this statute than you do almost any other where the Court has found that yeah, that's a fair inference of a money-mandating situation. JUSTICE BREYER: Well, I mean, the -- a lot of these provisions are technical, like the one I think is fairly technical, the one you are talking about, the Government -- it provides for treble damages -- treble damages, does it? damages, a fairly lengthy statute of limitations in the other? compared to the court of claims. MR. JACOBS: years. JUSTICE BREYER: years. And they have MR. JACOBS: Yeah. JUSTICE BREYER: Minimum damage, punitive MR. JACOBS: years or years -- years from discovery, years -- Official At the same time, there are differences between the relief scheme in this statute and the normal JUSTICE BREYER: My -- my impression was there are several differences. And normally, these things you, at least arguably, are not appropriate against the Government, because the Government when it knows the law will follow it, we hope. And, therefore, you don't need brow-beating mechanisms to make sure they follow it once it's clarified. So, therefore, it -- I mean, I can imagine arguments. one you have in the Court of Claims. And they're arguing that that means that they didn't want this Tucker Act and these other things to apply. Your Honor, but, with respect, I see nothing about saying, this is what you must do, and if you don't do, this is what you have to pay -- I see nothing unusual about saying that can be in the Court of Claims; that that's a Tucker Act claim. That doesn't seem -- that's not some reticulated statute unlike the Civil Service Review Act or something like that, where you have to do all these steps, have this hearing first, have that I just want to know what your reply is to that. They are different. MR. JACOBS: They -- they are different, hearing -- Official MR. JACOBS: Yes. And that's -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: And into its own perfectly okay. MR. JACOBS: Yes. And I think that is MR. JACOBS: Yes. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Your position is that's JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So are you happy with the circuit's suggestion that the specific does govern the general insofar as it will adopt whatever FCRA's limitations are? processes? consistent with this Court's jurisprudence. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Now, it does seem -- I mean, Justice Breyer's point. It does seem a little ad hoc. In other words, they don't fit quite together, and your answer is: Well, we'll just take whatever, you know, whatever we have to, to make it fit. It would go under the least imposing on the Government. provisions in FCRA to get it to fit under the Tucker Act. understand your question correctly, I -- I don't believe It suggests that Congress did not expect the Tucker Act to apply if you've got to change the remedial MR. JACOBS: Well, Your Honor, if I I agree with the premise. Official And this Court said: No, you've got a -- This Court has consistently said, as Your Honor said, that the Tucker Act only provides an outer limit for filing, but we'll use the shorter time period. In Ruckelshaus v. Monsanto, the Court said: No, no, no, you've got -- because Monsanto didn't want there to be a Tucker Act claim. It wanted to be able to argue: We have no relief available to us for having to disclose the components of our insecticides. And they wanted to argue: There is no relief available to us. Ruckelshaus v. Monsanto, the Court discussed extensively the Restatement of Torts as to whether a trade secret -- a listed trade secret under the Restatement of Torts, and then went ahead and said: No. You've got a Tucker Act claim here. you've got a Tucker Act claim. You do have relief available to you. And the Court said: Yeah, you didn't file a claim. There is a procedure where you could file a -- a claim saying: This is a trade secret, and the --you then would have arbitration. And the Court said: You haven't done that; go ahead and do that and then let's see what happens. But you've got a Tucker Act claim. And incidentally, in that regard, in JUSTICE BREYER: Right. So is -- are you Official MR. JACOBS: Absolutely. JUSTICE BREYER: So what you want us to say also saying, FCRA, the underlying statute, clearly waives sovereign immunity, so we don't have to worry about whether the standard is a weak standard or a tough standard, doesn't matter. We win anyway. is, okay. We will apply the tough standard. There's still -- there's still -- sovereign immunity is waived in FCRA. And since sovereign immunity is clearly waived there, then you can bring this under the Tucker Act, and the only differences are the remedial schemes are slightly different, but that doesn't matter. telling us? existed, to get rid of the private bills. What's wrong with the Government's basic proposition which is where you have a remedy you have to pursue that remedy. And I think that, at bottom, that's their argument. MR. JACOBS: I'm telling Your Honor that we win under such a test. We don't believe such a test is called for, but if -- if such a test were used, we still win because you do have such a clear waiver. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: One of the purposes of the Tucker Act was to provide a remedy, where none Am I correctly stating what you are now What's wrong with that scheme? Instead of Official MR. JACOBS: Your Honor, I would submit that role the Tucker Act should play one that should be given court, for years now, has said, "If you meet these requirements, you may sue under the Tucker Act." permitting two remedies with potentially conflicting commands, whether it's on the amount of damages or the nature of the recovery or the statute of limitations, why isn't their vision of what the Tucker Act -- the voice? One that should be followed? that would be a substantial change in this Court's jurisprudence. Congress passed the Tucker Act, and this concede that you have a cause of action under FCRA at all. the opposite. And so what I find peculiar is that there should be two causes of action for the same thing. You can proceed either under FCRA or under the Tucker Act or me, one or the other, and it would normally be the specific governing the general. do we need the Tucker Act? MR. JACOBS: No. JUSTICE SCALIA: They say -- they say just JUSTICE SCALIA: The Government doesn't both. I mean, that's very strange to me. It seems to So if you say there is one under FCRA, why MR. JACOBS: Your Honor, the Tucker Act, Official MR. JACOBS: Your Honor, I cannot name you a case off the top of my head. As I said, I believe the made available by Congress, could we proceed only under FCRA? Yes, we could, but the Tucker Act is available, the statute says what it says, and we have appealed to the Court of Appeals. But there is --JUSTICE SCALIA: Do you have any other case where -- where you -- somebody's been allowed to proceed under the Tucker Act where there is clear ability to proceed under some other statute? Privacy Act allows you to do either. The -- all -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: The FSLA as well. MR. JACOBS: I'm sorry? JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: The FSLA as well. MR. JACOBS: Yes. The FSLA -- I was going to say, as Your Honor said earlier. But the cases where a Tucker Act remedy has been denied, as I've said, are where a person was trying to evade a limitation of the substantive act. That's not this case. This case is four-square within the court's jurisprudence. The Government argues now for a new -- and it's not clear to me exactly what test, but it's a limiting one. It would -- it would cut back the Tucker Act. JUSTICE KAGAN: But Mr. Jacobs, you are trying to evade a certain kind of limitation. The Official MR. JACOBS: No, Your Honor. We believe, JUSTICE KAGAN: But then you wouldn't need going under the Tucker Act and going under the statute is the difference between, you know, what -- what standard is a court going to hold you to, to decide whether there has been a waiver of sovereign immunity. MR. JACOBS: The standard, I would submit, Your Honor, is that the Tucker Act is always available limitation that you are trying to evade is the rule that waivers of sovereign immunity have to be express. And that's the rule you are trying to evade by going under the Tucker Act. and we've maintained throughout, that we do have an express waiver, (a) -- to go under the Tucker Act. The difference between unless a -- the substantive statute provides a limitation on that ability; either saying it shall be -- shall be litigated in the Tax Court, it can only be litigated if it is preceded by a claim, an administrative claim, some limitation like that. If -- if there's something that says it has to be in another forum, then you would be evading it. But otherwise, the Tucker Act remedy is available and it's appropriate and it's precisely, I would submit, that what do you do --CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You can finish your clearly a fair inference. Official MR. JACOBS: -- what do you do when you say, REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF SRI SRINIVASAN ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT JUSTICE SCALIA: Mr. Srinivasan, I hate to CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, Counsel. MR. JACOBS: Thank you. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Mr. Srinivasan, you sentence. eh, we think this is -- you know, is this express enough? And that's the Tucker Act saying, well, it's have three minutes left. eat up any of your time, but do you acknowledge that there are other statutes under which a person can Act? situation, and I think that's why you look to this remedial provision that Congress enacted to determine remedial mechanism within it typically. JUSTICE SCALIA: What about the Privacy Act? MR. SRINIVASAN: The Privacy Act has its own either proceed under the Privacy Act and you're covered proceed, either under the statute or under the Tucker MR. SRINIVASAN: No, I'm not aware of that the metes and bounds. JUSTICE SCALIA: So -- so you'd say you Official MR. SRINIVASAN: Or you don't proceed at it? FSLA was the other one? MR. SRINIVASAN: Well, FLSA is a bit JUSTICE SCALIA: And what about -- what is there, or you don't -- all, yeah. complicated, for the reasons I was adverting to earlier. It's -- this Court has never confronted the question of how exactly you go forward under the FLSA. And I think, because of the ambiguity in the courts to which the FLSA refers, for the reasons I was discussing with Justice Sotomayor earlier, I think you could see that statute as incorporating the Tucker Act itself, but that would be something that Congress did. MR. SRINIVASAN: (u)(i). I think there's several answers to (u)(i). First of all, I'm not sure which way that cuts because the fact -- it may be way that cuts because, on one hand, the fact that Congress specifically provided for the United States to be liable in certain situations I think cuts in favor of our understanding, not against it. (u)(l), it may be (u)(i), but (u) -- I'm not sure which JUSTICE SCALIA: What about (u)(l), that your friend raised? But there's a more fundamental point about Official Now, I have two points that I'd like to make notwithstanding any other provision would have referred the argument that my friend makes on the other side, which is that that statute was enacted, I think, before the civil remedies provisions were expanded to encompass all persons. So it's hard to conclude that that to something that came along later. in rebuttal, one of which, there's been some questions today about which is the specific statute and which is Now, one, I think, clear indication that the specific statute for present purposes should be FCRA is to look at what the Plaintiffs allege. Plaintiffs seek the FCRA advantage of statutory damages of at least $. And so they're grounding their claim in the FCRA cause of action. And I think, therefore, you should look at FCRA to determine whether the And you don't have a situation in which you can mix and match under both; you should look to FCRA to determine whether there's been a clear and express waiver of sovereign immunity. The Plaintiffs are bringing a FCRA claim, and there's no mistake about that, because the The other point I would like to discuss is the general statute. Government is liable. Official though there's a cause of action already in the statute, The Tucker Act doesn't apply to torts. This something that -- references something Justice Breyer was adverting to earlier, which is even if there was some universe in which you could contemplate a hybridization where you apply the Tucker Act, even you wouldn't do so in the context of this case because there are clear indications that Congress wouldn't have contemplated a resort to the Tucker Act. claim is a tort claim. We know this because the Court in Safeco a few terms ago -- this is at U.S. -- specifically referred to the Restatement of Torts as a means of -- interpreting the term willfulness, which is the linchpin for the claim here. above-entitled matter was submitted.) I see my time has expired. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, Counsel. The case is submitted. (Whereupon, at : p.m., the case in the OfficialOfficial A ability : : : able : : : : above-entitled : : absolutely : abstract : accomplishing acknowledge : : : : act :, :, :,,, :,,, : : : :,, : :,, :,,,, :, : :,,, :,,, :,,,, :,,, :,, :, : : :, : :, :, : :,, : : :, : :, :,,, :, :, :,,, :, : :,, : :,, :,, : : : : :, : :,,,, :,, :,, :, : :,,, :, : :,,, :, : :,,, : :, :,, :,,, : : :,, allege : alleged : allow : : allowed : allowing : allows : : :, : : ambiguity : amended : amendments action : : : :, : :, : and/or :, : amount : actions : acts : : : :, Act's : : anomaly : answer : :,, : : : : answered : answers : ad : add : adding :, anybody : address :, anyway : addressing : : : : : Administration : : administrative : Apache : : :, apparent : appeal :, : : adopt : advantage : appealing : adverting : appealed : : : affirms : agency : : : age-old : ago : agree : : agreements : Agriculture : ahead :, alia : Appeals : APPEARAN... : appendix : : : applicable : :, : :, :, : : applied : : : : : : : applies : :, : : : : : : : : : :,:assault :,assaults :asserted :assessment :assume :attempts :atypical :apply : : :, : : : : : : :, authorized :available :,: : : : : : :, : :,:,avoid ::applying : approach : : : : :,awards :,aware :appropriate : awful :a.m : :: : arbitrationarguable :::arguably :argue ::,argues :arguing ::argument ::,, :,:, :: :,,:,,: ::,,:, :: :: :: :: :: :arguments :arises :asked :asking : :Bb :,,,:, ::back : ::background:balance :bar :based :: :bases :basic :basically ::basis : :: : :: :: :bear :begs :behalf :,:,, :: :believe : Official : : : : causes : cert : certain :, : : : : : : : certainly : change : : : : Chicago : Chief :, : :,, : :, :,, :, : : :, : circuit : : : : : comply : components claimed : claims :, : :, : : :, : : : : : :,, :,, : :, conceived : concede : conceivable : : conceive : : clarified : class : clause : clear :, : : : : : : :, :, : clearer : clearly : : : : closer : :,, : commands : companies compared : compass : compensation : : :, : :, concern : conclude : :, : : concluded : : : conclusion : concrete : condition : conditions : : : conform : confront :,confronted : Congress : : :, :, : : :,: :,: :,: :,:,,:,,,,: :,:,,:,,: : : : : :, : : : : : : : : : :, : : : : : Bell : better : :, beyond : big : bill : bills : bit : : body : : Bormes : : bottom : bound : bounds : : : Bowen : breach : : :, : breathtaking : Breyer : :,, : :, : :, :,, : : : : Breyer's : brief : : : : : briefing : briefs : bring : : : :, : :, : : : bringing : : brings : brought : : : : : Brown : : brow-beating : burdens : b(b) : CC : : : :cabin :call :called :canon :,: ::captivity :card :,:, : : :care :,,:careful :cares :carve :case : : : :,: :,: ::, : : :: :,:, : :, : : :,:,,,:,,cases :: :: ::,,,: :cause : : come : :,, : Collection : conflicting : :,,, : :, :,, : : circuit's : : : : : comes : :, : circumstances : : circumvent : : cite : cited : civil : : : : : claim :,, competent : :,, : : : complaint : : : :, : : : Congressional: : :,,, : : conscious : :, : : :, compliance : consequences :,, : : completely complicated : : Official considerations : consistent : : : : : consistently correctly : : : Counsel : : : : countenance Constitution countenanced : : : : : credit : : deny : : district : : department : : : : : : : doctrine : Dooley : : : :, : depend : : :, depending :, : : : :,, cut : : : depends : couple : course : : cuts :,, described : D.C :, Deputy : : doubt : drafters : drawing : duty : : EE : :, earlier :: ::, : easier :eat :ECOA :effectively :eh :either :: :: :,elaborate :element :eliminates :Elkhorn :embedded :embodies :emphatic :employee :enacted :: :enacting :enacts :encompass :: :encompasses:enforce :,enforced :engages :enormous :entered :entity :,: : : construction construe :, : : construed : : : construing : : Consumer : consumers : contain : contains : contemplate : : : contemplated : : contemplates : :, contemplation : context : :, : : : : contexts : : contract : : : contracts : control : : : controls : corporations correct :, : : : : : : court :, : : :,, : :,, : :,, : : : : : : :, : : : : :, :, : :,,,, : :, : :, : :, : :, :, : :,,, : : : :, : : courts : : : : : : court's : : : :, : : : : : :, : : : : : : : covered : D D : Daly : damage : damages : :, : : :, : : : : :,, : : date :,, : day : deal : : dealing : deals : dealt : debate : : Debt : decide : decides : decision :, decisions : : : : deemed : default : define : defined : defines :, defining : definition : : : denied : description: detail : determination : determine : : :,detract : developed : device : difference : :, : : : : :,differences : : : different : : : : :,,:, : difficult : : : : : difficulty : digits : disclose : disclosed : disclosing : discovery : discuss : discussed : : discusses : discussing : distinction : : Official framework : given : : free-standing envisioned : epidemic : equal : : :, Erika : : : express : : : : :, :, : : expressed : : : escape : ESQ :, : expresses : expression : essentially : : : : established : expressly : :, : evade : :, : : evading : everybody : : exactions : exactly : : : : : example : : : : : : : : exception : :, exclude :, : excludes : excuse : : : exempting : existed : expanded : expect : expected : : expiration : : : expired : explicit :, explicitly : extend : extends : extensively extent :, extraordinarily : : : Ffacing :fact : : : :,fair :, : : :: ::fairly :,:, : : fall : fashion : fashioned : favor : FBI : : : FCRA :, : : : :, : :, : : : : :, : : : : :, : :, : :, : :,,, :, FCRA's : : features : Federal : : : :,, :,, : :, : :,, : : :, : : : : fiduciary : : : Fifth : file : : :, filing : financial : find : finding : finish : first : : : : : : fisc : fit :,, fits : : five : flip : flipped : FLSA :,, : :,,, :,, follow :, followed : : following : footnote : force : forth : :, : : : : forum : forward : : found :, : : : founded : four-square : : friend : : : : FSLA : :,, : full : : : fully : fundamental fundamentally : : furnishing : further : future : GG : : : :general :: :,: :,:, : :, : :, : :,,,:,,,: :: ::generally ::, : :, :, :getting : : : Ginsburg : : : : :, : give : : : : : : go : : : :, :,,, : : : : : : goes : : going : : : : : :, :, : :, : : : :,,,good : : govern : governed : governing : : : : Government : : : :,,,:,,,: :,,:,,,: :,:,, : :,,,:,,: : :, : : : :,,,:,,,:,, :,, : :,,, : :, :, : : : : Government's : : : : : :, : governs : :,, : :, :,, : : :, : : : : : :,, : : : : : :, :, : : grant :, Honor's : grounding : : : : guess : : hoopla : hope : : : : : : hoping : hurdle : : : :, : hybridization : : : : : H hand : happens : happy : hard : : : : : : : : hate : head : hear : hearing : :, held : : Hinck : : : hint : hoc : hold : : holding : honed : Honor : : : : : :,, hypo : hypothetical : :, hypotheticals : I identical : : identically : identity : II : : Illinois : : illiquid : imagine : immediately immense : : : immunity : : :, : :,, : :,, : : : :,, Official : : : : :, : : : : : :, : : :,, :, : : :,, :, : impact : implicated : implication : :, implications : import : importance : impose : imposed : imposing : impression : imprisoned : improperly : : : Improvements incidentally include : includes : including : : : : : : incorporating : : incorrect : independent : Indian : indication : : indications : inference : : information : : insecticides : insofar : instance : intend : intended : : : intent : : : : : : inter : interpretation : : : interpreted : : : interpreting invasion : investigations : : : invoke : irony : isolated : issue :,, : : : : :, : : issuers : it’s : I’m : J Jacobs : : :,,, : :, : :, :,, :,, :,,, :, : :, : :, : :, : : : :,,, : :, :,, : :, :, : : :, : :, :, : : :, JAMES : JOHN : : : judicial : : : jurisdiction :, :, :,,, :, : : : jurisdictional :, : jurisprudence: : :, : : : : : : Justice : : :,,,:, : :, :, :,, : :,,:,, : : :, : : :, :, : : : :,,,:,, : :,,:, :, : :, : : Official limited : match : :, : matter : : :, :, : :, Monsanto : : :, mean : : Moore :, limiting : linchpin : liquid : listed : lists : literally : : litigant : litigated : : : : : : :, : :,, : : : : : : : Mountain : : :, : multitude : NN :, : name :narrow :national ::naturally :: :nature ::necessarily :need : : : :: ::: :: ::negative :,:network :never : : : ::new : : : :,:Nichols :noncompliance:normal :normally :: :Northern :notion ::: little : : means : : : : : live : long : : meant : longer : longstanding mechanism : : : look : : : : mechanisms : :, : :,,, : :, Medicaid : :,,, meet : :,, met : : : metes : : :, : : : : : :, mind : : Minimum : : Mining : minutes : mistake : lose : lost : : Mitchell : lot :, : looking : : : : : : : Mmix : money :,:, : : : : : :, : : money-manda...:,money-manda...: :,:,,,:,,, L : knowledge : :, :,, : : : : : : :, : :,, :,, :,,, : :, :, : Knowing : :,,, : :, : :, known : : :, knows : :, :, :,, : :, : :, :, : : :, :, : :,,,, : :, :, : :,, :, :, :,, :,, :, K large :, largest : law : : :, : : :, : l :, :, Labor : Lane : : language : : : : left : : legal : Lending :, lengthy : let's : liability : : :, :, : : :, :, : :, : : :, : : liable : Kagan : : : : :, : : :, : : : : Kagan's : Kennedy : : Kennedy's : kind : : : : kinds : : : : knew : : know : : : : : : : : : limit : limitation : mandate :, maintained : making : : :, mandating :,, limitations : : : : : : : :, : : Massachusetts massive : Official : proposition :, : : protect : protecting : : : Protection : provide : : provided : provider : :,providers : : provides : : : : : provision : :, :, :,,:,,,,: : : :,:, : : : : : : : provisions : : :,: : : notwithstandi... outer : :, : :, : number : : overcome : : owe : owed : owes : PO O : : obligation : P : : :, page : : : : :,,, :, : obligations : pages : part : : : :,, :, : : : : : : : participate : obtain : obviously : particular : :, : :, : : : : October : odd : offhand : oh : okay : particularly : parties : :, : parts : : : : party :, : : : permit : permits : permitting : person : : : : : : : : : persons : precisely : : : predicate : : premise : present : : presumably : presume : :, : presumption : : : : : : person's : petition : Petitioner : presupposes : : pretty : : :, : principal : principle : plaintiff :, :,, : : : : Plaintiffs : :, plausible : play :, : : : : principles : : : print :, printed : : printing : prior : prison : old : once : : ones : : :, onward : operative : opinion : : opportunity :,,, opposed : : opposite : oral : :, : : : : privacy : pass : passed : : : : please : : prisoners : point : : : : : : : : passes : : pay : : pointed : payment :, pointing : : : points : : :, : :, : : : : :, : : peculiar : posed : position : : Pena : :, possibility : people : : possible : potential : : : order : : perfectly : : : original : ought : : period : permissible potentially : prohibits :,: : preceded : proof : proportion private : problem : procedure : proceed : public :,punitive : purposes : : : : : :,, : pursue : : : put : putting : processes : prohibit : prohibition : : p.m : Qqualify :question : Official : reasoning : reasons :, rebuttal : : : receipts : recognized : :, : :, : :, : : : : :, :,, : : :, : recommend :,, :, :, Record : recover : :,, recovery : : : reference : : : : : :,,, : : : : : : : references : reports : required : requirement : : referred : questions : : : quibble : quite : : referring : : : : : : R refers : : : regard : : : : : regarded : R : raise : raised : Regardless : ran : regime :, resorting : reach : : Rehabilitation : :, :,, : read : :, related : : :, relevant : : : readily : reading : real : really : : relied : relief : : response : : : responses : Restatement : : : : reinforces : Respondent :, : : : : : : : : reason : : : : : : :, : : : : :, : relying :, remedial : : : : :, rests : :, : : :, : : :,, :,,,, :, : reticulated : retain :, retains :, result : : : : : remedies : : : : remedy : : :, : :,, : : rephrase : reply : reporting : :, : : : : :, : : :, reverse : reversed : Review : rid : right : : :,,, : : :, : : :, :, : : : : : rights :, ROBERTS : :,,, : :, : :, : : :, : requirements : : requires : reserve : resist : : resisting : resort : role : route : Ruckelshaus :, rule : :, rules : : :, : respect :, run : : : : : : : : : :, : runs : : :, : SS : : Safeco :sanction :sanctions :satisfied :::saying : : :, : : : : : :,: : : : says : : :, : : : :, : :, : : : : : : :, : :, :, : Scalia : :, : : : :, : : :, :,,, : :, :,, :, : : :, :, : : : :, : :,,:, : :,:,,:, : :, : : :,:,,,,:, : :, : : scheme : schemes : scope : : : second : secret :, : section :,: : : :,security : : see :,, : : :, : : : seek : seeks : seen : sense : : : sensibly : sentence : : : series : : Service : Services : : set : : : :, : : : sets : setting : Seventh : :,, Sheehan : short : shorter : show : : shows : side : significant : similarly : simplified : simply : : situation : : : : situations : : : size : : slightly : : Smith : Solicitor : somebody's : : sorry : : : : : : sort : : : : Sotomayor : :, : : : : : specificity : specified : splitting : spoke : square : SRI : :, : : :, : : :, :, :,, Srinivasan : :, :, : : :,,, :,, :,, : :, : :, :,, :, : : : :, : :,, :, : :, : : :, : : :,, :, : :,, :,, : :,, : :, :,, :, : :,, :, : :,,, :,, standard : :, : :,, : :,, : : sought : sounding : sounds : : sovereign : : : : :, : : :, : : :,, : : : : : :, :, : : : :, : : :,, :, : : :,, :, : Official States :,, : :, : : : : : :, : :, : : :,,, : :, :, : : :, :,, :, : :, : :,, : :,, : : : : : : :, : : :, :,, : :, : :, :, :, : : :, :, : :, : : :, : :,, :, : : : : :, :, : : :, :, : statutes : : : : : : : :, : : statutory : : : : stops : strange : strict : : : : stating : : : step : : statute :, steps : : :,,,, :, :,, stipulated : : : : :,,, straightforward : : : :, :,, :,, :, strictly : :,,, :, : : :, : :, :,,, :, : :,,, : :, : :, :, : :, : :, : subsequent : :,, subset : : : :, : subsets : strongly : subject : : : :, : :, submit : : : : : : :, submitted : : : : stands : : speaks : : standards : specific : :,, : :, :, : start : : :, :,, : : : : :, specifically : : : : started :,, starting : starts : : state :, statement : : substance : substantial : : substantive : :, : : : : :, : : : : : : sue : : : :, :, : : talks : tax : : taxes : technical : : tell : : telling :, term : : terms :, : : : :, : test :,, text :,, :, : :, : :,, : sued : sues : sufficiently : : suggest : suggestion : suggests : suing : suit : : : : : :, Thank : : :, : : : : : : textual : :,, theft : there’ll : there’s : : : : : : They’re : thing : : things : : :, think : : suits : supply : supported : suppose : : supposed : Supreme :, sure : : : : : :, system : : : T T :, take : : : takes : talk : : talked : : : talking : Official : :, : : : : :,, : : :, : :, : : :, : :,, :,, thinking : : : : thought : : : :, : three : time : : :, : : : : times : today : : told : top : tort : : :, : :, : :,,, : : tortious : torts :, :, : : totally : tough :, trade :, true : : : : truncation : trust : : : Truth :, try : trying : :,,, :, : : Tucker :, :,,,, : :, : :, : :,, :,,,, :,,, :,, :,,, : :, : : :,,, :,,, :,, :,, :, :, :, : : :,, :,,, :, : :, : : : : :, :, : : :, :,,,: :,:,,,, :, : :,, :,,,: :,: :,, : : : :, : type : typical : typically : Uu : :, :,,, ultimately : underlying : understand:understanding: ::understood: :undifferentiat... :unequivocal:, : :, :, unequivocally: :: United :,, : :, : : : : : :,: :,: : :,,, : :, :, : : :,:,,:, : :, : :,, : :,,: :: :: ::, : : :,: : traditional :,, : : : : : :, : :,, :,,, : :, :,,,, :,, :,,, Tribe : : : :, traditionally transactions : : treble :, Tuesday : twice : two : : :, Official :,, : universe : unusual : use : : : usual : usually : U.S : V waiving : worded : want : : words : : :, : :, : works : world : : : worry : : wouldn't : wanted : :, : :, wants : war :, : : : :, : : : : :, Washington : write : written : : : versus : : : view : : v : : : :, : : : :, : way : : :, :, : :, : : : :, : :, : : : : : :, weak : went : violates : violation : : : violence : virtue : vision : voice : W waive : : : : waived : : : :, waiver : : :, : : : : : : : :, : : :, : :, : waivers :, :, : waives : : : : : weren't : we'll : : we're : : : : :, : : :, we've : : : we’re : : White : : :, : who’s : willfulness : willing :, win :, : : : :,, wonder : word : : :, : wrong :, X x :,, : : :, Y Y :,, : yeah :, : : year : : years : :,,, :, : you’re : Z Z :, : zone : $ $ : - : : : : : : : : (a) : (a) : : b(b)(b) : b(b)() (a) : : : (b)(b) : (b)(b)(b) : (b)(b)() : : : (p) : : (u) : (u)(i) : (u)(l) : : : : :, :, : : : : a :, : : :, :,, : : : : a :,, a : 