Official v. IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES Washington, D.C. Tuesday, October , - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x TERRY TIBBALS, WARDEN, : : No. - Petitioner : SEAN CARTER : - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x The above-entitled matter came on for oral argument before the Supreme Court of the United States at : a.m. APPEARANCES: SCOTT MICHELMAN, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf of ALEXANDRA T. SCHIMMER, ESQ., Solicitor General, Columbus, Ohio; on behalf of Petitioner. Respondent. Official C O N T E N T S PAGE On behalf of the Respondent On behalf of the Petitioner On behalf of the Petitioner ORAL ARGUMENT OF ORAL ARGUMENT OF ALEXANDRA T. SCHIMMER, ESQ. SCOTT MICHELMAN, ESQ. REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF ALEXANDRA T. SCHIMMER, ESQ. Official P R O C E E D I N G S (: a.m.) This case is here from the Sixth Circuit, CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument ORAL ARGUMENT OF ALEXANDRA T. SCHIMMER ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER MS. SCHIMMER: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it first this morning in Case -, Tibbals v. Carter. please the Court: which held that habeas claims can be stayed indefinitely because prisoners have a statutory right to competence to assist in their case, but even Mr. Carter now disowns the circuit's rationale, and the court's indefinite stay indefinitely. Doing so is fundamentally incompatible with the timeliness concerns underlying AEDPA. this is not one of them. All of Mr. Carter's claims are record based and, therefore, resolvable without his assistance. Second, while we readily acknowledge that limited stays will be appropriate in some situations, order was wrong for two other reasons. First, habeas claims cannot be stayed Ms. Schimmer. JUSTICE KAGAN: What situations would they be appropriate in? Official So here, for instance, we think that the We don't think that the prisoner's to his claim. And we think that would be true in a therefore, even a limited stay would not be appropriate because all of Mr. Carter's claims were vetted before the state courts and decided on the merits. And therefore, under (d), in this Court's decision in Pinholster, the Federal court is limited to reviewing the state court record. MS. SCHIMMER: Limited stays, we think, Your Honor, would be stay -- appropriate in situations where the prisoner's ability to effectively communicate with his counsel or to disclose evidence would be necessary case, potentially, where AEDPA does not restrict Federal review to the state court record. prisoner's assistance would not be necessary, and assistance in that case is necessary. We don't think Mr. Carter has made a case for why his assistance would be necessary in this specific case. the rule be that an indefinite stay is -- is never necessary? You just proceed based on the evidence you have? JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, why -- why shouldn't Sometimes, we have evidence where a witness is missing. We have to go on with the case. Then it Official And we do not think that it comports with MS. SCHIMMER: Well, we absolutely agree, appropriate, regardless of the circumstances; that these cases, that power is grounded in equitable discretion. could be open to argue in a later case that there was new evidence that was not available. Justice Kennedy, that indefinite stays are never indefinite stays contravene AEDPA's timeliness concerns. And to the extent that all of the parties in this case agree now that, to the extent district courts have some power to issue stays -- we say only limited stays -- in equitable discretion to allow a prisoner essentially to win his case, to obtain a suspension of his capital of -- of the equation? So, suppose that there's no stay, that the habeas proceeding is adjudicated against the petitioner. He then becomes competent and claims reopen, you think? MS. SCHIMMER: Well, we think in those situations -- certainly, the State of Ohio wouldn't contest, for instance, under (b), that if you were there's new evidence. Would -- would that be grounds to sentence, the ultimate end relief that he seeks -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: What about the second part incompetent before, that that would be a legitimate Official JUSTICE KENNEDY: And would the backstop be newly discovered evidence? MS. SCHIMMER: The backstop would be a newly basis, potentially, for not having been able to reasonably discover a new claim, if one had a new claim. So we do think that -- moving forward, that no indefinite stay should be permitted. And when the courts move forward, yes, if someone's competency is later restored, there are backstops. The person, certainly in Ohio, can always go back to state court and -- discovered claim, I would say. I think that would be what -- circumstances, we would never reach the question of how much of a stay is appropriate in other circumstances; isn't that right? springboard, the Court could draw the boundary line -- could -- could draw one bright boundary line and say indefinite stays are never permitted, but limited stays might be permitted in cases where the claims are not I think -- to the extent that, using this case as a JUSTICE KAGAN: Ms. Schimmer, if you are right that no stay was appropriate in these MS. SCHIMMER: I think that's right because record based. I -- appropriate, how long that stay should be. one bright line, which says that stays are not MS. SCHIMMER: Oh. JUSTICE KAGAN: In other words, if there was opposite. appropriate in a record-based claim because there's really nothing that the client can contribute, then we'd have no need or cause to reach the second question of what happens, in a case where a stay might be MS. SCHIMMER: That's correct, Your Honor. I'm sorry, I agree -- I agree with you that the Court could rule on that ground. appropriate; in which case, it would be unnecessary to decide whether any stay is appropriate where -- for a record-based claim, right? end. MS. SCHIMMER: That is true, too --JUSTICE SCALIA: Or we could decide both, I JUSTICE SCALIA: Alternatively, we could --we could rule that indefinite stays are never is --suppose. Official JUSTICE KAGAN: I'm saying the exact MS. SCHIMMER: That is true, too. That JUSTICE SCALIA: We can do it from either Official MS. SCHIMMER: I suppose, yes. I mean, we JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Am I -- am I MS. SCHIMMER: That is not our argument, It sounds like what you are proposing -- or determining competence, whether it's short or long, is permissible. Is that your argument? would -- we would -- we would urge the Court to, I think, do both, to say --understanding that your position, in response to the question from Justice Scalia and Justice Kennedy, is that, for you, indefinite is any stay whatsoever? in response to them, is that no stay for purposes of Justice Sotomayor. Our -- our definition of an indefinite stay is a stay that is imposed until the Rees? Rees, or, really, like the stay the Sixth Circuit has JUSTICE GINSBURG: You would have to -- to maintain your position, the Court would have to qualify Rees, or at least the interpretation that says the stay should be indefinite once the petitioner is found prisoner is restored to competence. That -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: Like -- like the stay in MS. SCHIMMER: Like -- like the stay in issued. incompetent because that's what has happened there. The Official There are multiple reasons why we -- why we One is the fact that the Court's stay order think that Rees does not endorse the power of Federal court said, find out if he's competent. The answer was, he is incompetent. And then the court just let it sit until the man died. MS. SCHIMMER: Well, Your Honor, we don't think that Rees really has any force or provides any guidance in this case. That, of course, was a case where a prisoner was seeking to abandon his further appeals. courts to indefinitely stay habeas proceedings. was completely unexplained and very terse. It didn't announce any rule of law. Court's stay in Rees was, at most, a judicially negotiated settlement, meaning far from a demonstration of the Court's inherent power. It seemed to be a very carefully orchestrated exercise of consented-to power. The third point is that -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I could take objection to that characterization because the clerk of the court told the court that neither party was happy with what was happening, and the court still entered the order. Second, the historical record shows that the But let me go back to my question a moment. Official of stays? JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But under your definition, it's never appropriate, really. MS. SCHIMMER: For -- not in -- not where Amici say that most competency issues are resolved within months and that many individuals -- the vast majority, are restored to competency with proper medication within months. Are you opposing those kinds it's appropriate, no, Your Honor. And again, Your Honor, our definition of an indefinite stay is -- MS. SCHIMMER: No. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: You argue -- you argue two things. You say, under Pinholster, they -- courts always have to rely on the record. how we would taxonomize the appropriateness of stays: We would say indefinite stays are never permitted, meaning a court can never premise a stay exclusively on the restoration of the prisoner's competency, in saying says, it can be done, we have to try? can be done, we have to try, and it's a situation where MS. SCHIMMER: Correct. We would -- here's however long it takes -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Even though a doctor MS. SCHIMMER: If -- if a doctor says, it it's appropriate -- Official JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, they can never JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: That -- that's also -- MS. SCHIMMER: Right. So we would say, in say, it can be done. They can say -- MS. SCHIMMER: Right. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- we have to try. MS. SCHIMMER: There is a reasonable probability that it can be done. We would say, Your Honor -- I'm not sure how they can do that until they try. certain situations, yes, that would be perfectly appropriate. having a competent prisoner is a desirable thing in a habeas case and that courts do have some discretion to try to vindicate that goal. come at all cost, meaning -- proceeded. There -- there was going to be an end, right? JUSTICE SCALIA: Rees -- Rees was not an indefinite stay in -- in the absolute sense, was it? MS. SCHIMMER: No. JUSTICE SCALIA: Because the trial The State of Ohio certainly agrees that Our point, though, is simply that it cannot MS. SCHIMMER: Well, the court -- the court Official He comes back in months, and there's been in the end held up the cert petition for several decades without deciding the case. So -- and in the end, Mr. Rees died and then the cert petition was ultimately later dismissed. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I don't understand how your approach works. We, the defendant, the habeas petitioner, the allegation is made, I'm incompetent, there is support for it. The district court says, okay, I can't enter an indefinite stay, but you are going to be treated; I want you to come back in months, okay? And we will look at it then. no change. What happens then? Another months? At what point does it become indefinite? playing on the field of equitable discretion, Your Honor, it's going to be difficult to put forward a hard and fast rule. (Laughter.) MS. SCHIMMER: Sure. A loose and soft rule. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Is it two years? Or But Justice Sotomayor rightly points --CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, give me a loose and soft rule. I mean, is it -- MS. SCHIMMER: Right. Well, since we are is it ten years? JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, Ms. Schimmer, why So we think, presumptively, a year would be a year. And we think there is support for that, even from Mr. Carter's own amici. The brief of the American Psychiatric Association, pages to , and especially footnote , talks about how most prisoners who are ultimately successfully restored to competency, that does happen in a matter of months, to months at the longest end. About percent of them are restored within to months. an appropriate period of time for -- would that be? I mean, assume a case where you say a stay would be appropriate. So it's not a closed record case. It's a case where the client might be expected to provide information that's -- let's -- let's assume it's necessary to a full and fair adjudication of the habeas claim. fair adjudication couldn't take place in those circumstances. at the point at which you say that the test for a limited stay is however long it takes to restore Why would you cut it off at a year? Why wouldn't it be still true in years, that a full and Official MS. SCHIMMER: We would say, presumptively, MS. SCHIMMER: Well, we think, Your Honor, Official participation is necessary for a full and fair adjudication, then the court's answer should be the same, too. Why isn't that right? somebody's competency is the point at which we have returned to the definition of saying that indefinite stays are proper. And the bottom line is that we think that --JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, it's not an indefinite stay. I think the judge would do what the Chief Justice suggested, that -- you know, it's not for ever and ever. We're just going to come back to it periodically. But if the answer is the same, which is that the client's there comes a point, given the finality concerns underlying AEDPA, that a limited stay, when that window expires -- the person has a reasonable period of time to be restored to competency; that when that window expires, at some point, the proceedings do have to continue. JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, it's really -- it's really not the same question when it comes back, is it? Because there are two questions: Is -- is reasonable competence useful for his defense? But, also, the second question, is there a reasonable probability that MS. SCHIMMER: Because we do think that he can be restored to competence? Official probability. MS. SCHIMMER: That's exactly right, The first time, there obviously is that, and you give him a year. When you come back a second time, you say, well, it's been a year, they usually come back within to months, there is no longer a reasonable Justice Scalia. And to the extent that we are balancing different parties' interests in these cases, after the preliminary limited stay expires, we believe at that point the prisoner's interest in a continued stay has diminished, and the state's interest in the proceedings continuing and moving forward has then increased, and that the court should then move on. claim, so that would be a threshold question. question, and there seems to be a good amount of consensus on that point. It's the test articulated by the Sixth and Ninth Circuits and by my colleague here today. And we're -- we're willing to accept that as the test for when limited stays can be imposed. questions, I'll reserve the remainder of my time. JUSTICE GINSBURG: And there'd be no stay at all, unless it's necessary for just adjudication of the CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel. MS. SCHIMMER: That would be the threshold And with that, if there aren't further Official Mr. Michelman. ORAL ARGUMENT OF SCOTT MICHELMAN ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT MR. MICHELMAN: Mr. Chief Justice, and may stays issue and how long may such stays be? Ohio and the United States have agreed today that courts have the authority to stay habeas proceedings when the petitioner is mentally incompetent. So then the questions for this Court are when may such The Court's answers should reflect the important principle that no individual should lose potentially meritorious claims because of mental illness. won't because they can come back with new evidence after habeas is closed. Why is that inadequate? Justice Kennedy asked as well, and -- and it goes to the limits on second or successive petitions. They can't come back if they are later competent, if they first lose their claims, because they didn't have the evidence MR. MICHELMAN: I -- I think that's --that's a crucial question, Justice Sotomayor, that I'd like to begin by addressing -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Petitioner says they it please the Court: they needed and then try again later. Official They are subject to the bar on second or Imagine Mr. Carter has a potentially them to simply pick up where they left off. MR. MICHELMAN: Mr. Chief Justice, Section (b), the bar on second or successive successive petitions, which requires, not only that they have new facts, but also that they have new law. So that's a very restrictive standard that would not allow CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I'm sorry. I -- I didn't follow that exactly. What -- what prevents them from picking up where they left off? petitions. meritorious claim now that he can't speak to because of his incompetence, it's adjudicated without him, he loses adjudicated. Okay. Sorry. MR. MICHELMAN: Imagine it's adjudicated without him, he loses it. And then he can't simply hear me out. that the one claim among your many -- yours is the defendant who was excluded from trial, correct?waltz back into court and say, I'm here, I'm competent, JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I'm presume -- I presume it. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Oh, it's MR. MICHELMAN: Yes, Justice Sotomayor. Official JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So that if he comes back the old claim that has been adjudicated, correct? MR. MICHELMAN: Yes. And, in fact, the --the record lends some support to this suggestion by MR. MICHELMAN: Yes, Justice Sotomayor. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But without his and says, I told my attorneys I would behave, and I wanted to come back earlier, and they never let me back in, this would not be a new claim, this would be part of information? showing that counsel frequently put their own safety and their own concerns ahead of my client's interests, for example, stating on the record -- and I'm quoting here from trial counsel -- "I am still worried about him behaving during this phase, so the bottom line is he wants to stay where he is." So there is a question of whether trial counsel was -- was really looking out for Mr. Carter's interests at that time. There's also the question of whether --JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, that, you could see from the record. The question in my mind would be whether he told counsel he would behave, and counsel ignored that information, correct? MR. MICHELMAN: Yes, Justice Sotomayor. There is strong support in the record to suggest that Official Could he communicate with counsel? says now is there some new evidence, which could not have been discovered. Mr. Carter has additional information to provide, both about his desire to return to the courtroom and about his competence once he was removed from the courtroom. Was he hallucinating during the trial? Could he see it? JUSTICE KENNEDY: Could -- could you help me with your discussion of (b)? I have it in front of me. And the hypothetical was that he's incompetent, the claim is adjudicated, then he becomes competent, and he I thought you told us that you not only have to have new evidence, but new law. That's not the way I read -- misunderstood you. MR. MICHELMAN: You're -- no, you're right, Justice Kennedy. I misspoke. He needs new law or new facts, but the new facts have to come with a showing of actual innocence. I misstated that. I apologize. But, either way, new law is -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: No, no, no. MR. MICHELMAN: -- new facts are not enough. JUSTICE KENNEDY: No, no. This says, "or MR. MICHELMAN: I'm -- I'm sorry. JUSTICE KENNEDY: -- (b)()(B)(), unless I Official Constitutional error" -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: Yes, clear and convincing, MR. MICHELMAN: And --JUSTICE KENNEDY: Yes? MR. MICHELMAN: And (b)() -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: Yes? MR. MICHELMAN: -- "the facts underlying the the factual predicate for the claim could not have been discovered previously through the exercise of due diligence," period. claim, if proven, would show that, but for the that's true. the new facts, but needs to meet that higher standard, showing that no reasonable factfinder would have found him guilty. assistance of counsel in mitigation, goes to not his guilt, but his punishment. So that claim would be go to his guilt either. that any time a petitioner raises an ineffective assistance of counsel claim, the habeas proceeding can barred under . Additionally, his competence doesn't JUSTICE ALITO: Well, is it your position MR. MICHELMAN: Right. So he needs not only But one of his claims, his ineffective potentially be stayed indefinitely? MR. MICHELMAN: It's -- where it's truly the record that someone -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I'm sorry. Go --if competent, so that we wouldn't be engaging in imaginative speculation or claims that were purely record based. Justice Alito. But I would emphasize the role of the district courts as gatekeepers for only potentially meritorious claims that are -- are truly suggested on finish your answer to Justice Alito. suggested on the record that the petitioner could help, truly suggested by the record standard? that it would be suggested by the record. I'm not sure the adverb "truly" is necessary, but -- you know. it compared to a motion to dismiss standard? Court's decision -- stringent? MR. MICHELMAN: I think it would be -- well, I guess not -- not compared to the Iqbal standard, Your CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well -- well, how is CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So what -- it's a MR. MICHELMAN: Well, I would say that --Official MR. MICHELMAN: That's potentially correct, MR. MICHELMAN: Well, I would look to this CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Is it more Official CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, now we've gone suggested by the record. I mean, suggested by the It seems to me that it's a pretty loose Honor. Probably the plausibility standard would actually be somewhat analogous, although -- from plausible to truly -- plausible -- well, truly record might be plausible. standard that entitles the defendant to a stay. MR. MICHELMAN: Well, that -- but that --that's not the only criterion, Mr. Chief Justice. It would be not only that it was suggested by the record that it was a potentially meritorious claim, as the -- as the district court found and the standard this Court endorsed in Rhines, but also that the petitioner is discussing how, in -- in their characterization, this type of litigation has exploded in the Ninth Circuit, in their characterization, they pointed only to nine cases resulted in -- proposing just a mechanism that will permit stays in virtually every capital case, if that's what the genuinely incompetent. This doesn't happen very often. petitioner wants -- if that's what petitioner's counsel in the past nine years, so -- and not all of those JUSTICE ALITO: Well, why isn't what you're In fact, in the state's amicus brief Official Let's say you have a case where there is a the -- the sentencing authority. It's alleged that if wants? small amount of mitigating evidence about the petitioner's childhood, but not enough to -- to sway the petitioner had been -- if the petitioner was competent, the petitioner could provide a lot more information about what went on during his childhood years; and, therefore, the -- the proceeding has to be stayed indefinitely until the petitioner is restored to confidence or he dies, as happened in Rees. district courts have a wide amount of discretion in that matter, and they could say, well, it looks like there is a little evidence here, but based on what I think you could tell me, I don't think there is enough. Here, by contrast, the district court did find that Mr. -- Mr. Carter's competent assistance was courts to be gatekeepers -- JUSTICE ALITO: So if the -- if the district court says, well, there's a little bit here, and I can't rule out the possibility that there might be a lot more that's locked in the petitioner's mind, but he is unable What do you do with that situation? MR. MICHELMAN: Justice Alito, I think necessary. So I think we have to trust the district Official JUSTICE ALITO: Do you think that is MR. MICHELMAN: I think it is consistent you're arguing? MR. MICHELMAN: That's -- that's correct, particular, that a lot of district judges and a lot of court of appeals judges don't like the death penalty and will go to some length to prevent the imposition of that sentence, that we're just going to leave that all to the discretion of every individual district judge? to provide it because he is incompetent, then I'm going to grant a stay until he is restored to competence; and then that would be insulated from being overturned on appeal by abuse of discretion standard. That's what Justice Alito. That would be something -- consistent with AEDPA? That Congress, knowing, in with AEDPA, Your Honor, because of this Court's recent jurisprudence in Martinez, in Holland, in Rhines, which make clear that AEDPA did not pursue finality at all cost. It did not eliminate the discretion, the traditionally enjoyed, as this Court stated in Holland. And as this Court stated in Martinez, the Court is concerned that there could be claims that no court will have heard, not the state court, not the equitable discretion of the district courts that they Federal court. Official JUSTICE SCALIA: Mr. Michelman, we -- we MR. MICHELMAN: It's a different standard, of what is being done and why it's being done. have established a different standard for the degree of competence that has to exist in order to prevent execution, right? The -- the prisoner has to be aware MR. MICHELMAN: Yes, Justice Scalia. JUSTICE SCALIA: And that's a much lower standard than the standard of competence required for deciding whether he can assist counsel, right? Justice Scalia. JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, it's -- no, it's a much -- it's a much easier standard for the state to establish. some cases, but harder than others. Mental -- mental health science is complex, so one might be competent to because -- know that he's being executed for a crime, right? And -- why.know to prevent -- to prevent execution is he has to MR. MICHELMAN: Well, it could be easier in JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, wait. All he has to MR. MICHELMAN: And he has to understand JUSTICE SCALIA: -- in order to assist Official MR. MICHELMAN: That's -- that's true, JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, just make believe that I'm right about that, okay? (Laughter.) JUSTICE SCALIA: That there are two counsel, doesn't he have to know a lot more than that? Justice Scalia. The test -- standards, and one is really quite more difficult than the other. Why isn't the difference between the proceeding with the execution from an easier one to a MR. MICHELMAN: I -- I don't think that's true, Justice Scalia, because the -- the two standards are different and for different purposes. So there could be individuals who meet one and not the other. standards utterly eliminated? Because whenever there is a capital case, a habeas petition is filed, and counsel says, my -- my client cannot -- cannot -- cannot assist me. Oh, yes, he understands why he's being executed, but he may have a new claim, he may be able to tell me stuff, so we have to stay the execution indefinitely until he can assist -- assist me in -- in continuing his defense. You've just converted the standard for much more difficult one. It's not -- it's not an either/or choice. because even if one is easier -- Let's assume that the Ford standard -- the MR. MICHELMAN: Not necessarily, Your Honor, are fighting the -- the arguendo assumption. standard for competence should be executed, is more lenient, less -- less forgiving than competence to assist counsel. Let's assume that. Then Justice Scalia has to be right. You've -- you've simply eliminated the Ford standard altogether. JUSTICE GINSBURG: At least only -- only in cases where the competence -- the claim of incompetence is genuine. I mean, if anyone says, oh, I want to make -- take advantage of the more defendant-friendly standard, all I have to do is allege I'm incompetent. But that's not the case. He has to be -- there has to be a hearing that determines he is, indeed, incompetent. So - and -- and most defendants I don't think would be able to establish that they are, indeed, Justice Ginsburg. We -- our standard builds in the assumption that there will be mental health experts that will testify to the condition of the petitioner. So the petitioner can't simply select a Official JUSTICE KENNEDY: But then -- but then you incompetent. MR. MICHELMAN: That's right, Official (Laughter.) MR. MICHELMAN: I understand sometimes standard and declare that he meets it. He would have to satisfy mental health professionals that he meets that standard, whether it's competency to be executed or competency for these purposes. And so that will --JUSTICE SCALIA: Mental health experts always agree, don't they? Those provided by the defense always agree with those provided by the prosecution. Yes. that's not true, Justice Scalia, but that's -- that's why we rely on the district courts to do what they do every day in the trial competency context and adjudicate conflicting claims about a petitioner's mental correct that the petitioners in both cases -- pardon me, that the criminal defendants in both cases here, the Respondents, have all but conceded that there is no habeas, or am I overstating that? Justice Kennedy, though I won't speak for Mr. Gonzales. Mr. Carter does not press a Constitutional argument here, only the argument that a district court's competence -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: Am I -- am I -- is it Constitutional basis for the right to competency during MR. MICHELMAN: I don't think you are, Official JUSTICE KENNEDY: But once you concede the Martinez -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, it's fairness that's discretion, which the State of Ohio recognizes, to stay habeas proceedings should cover -- Constitutional point, so that there's no fundamental unfairness, then it seems to me that -- that you have all but given away your case. MR. MICHELMAN: Well, I don't think there needs to be Constitutional unfairness for there to be unfairness. For instance, this Court's opinion in not fundamental -- or -- an excellent illustration of that point, Justice Kennedy, because, there, the Court held -- not that there was a Sixth Amendment right to effective assistance of counsel at the habeas stage, but that ineffective assistance on initial review collateral proceedings could provide cause and prejudice to overcome a procedural default, in order that the petitioner would not lose his claim, and that -- to MR. MICHELMAN: Well -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: It's unfairness that's not prevent a situation where no court would hear the claim fundamental. MR. MICHELMAN: I think Martinez v. Ryan is Official opportunity to raise a particular claim. You say that, earlier, that trial judges do entitled preconviction and post-conviction. MR. MICHELMAN: That's -- that's correct, before he was executed. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, but in that case, the -- the whole basis of the analysis was that, although it was collateral, it really was the first this all the time in the trial context. It's an important distinction in our jurisprudence if there's a difference in terms of the rights to which you are Mr. Chief Justice. But if the facts haven't been presented -- and here what the district court found was there were facts missing, facts that were exclusively they haven't been available to either the state court or the Federal court, so it's possible this man could be executed and no one could have fully heard these is your limit? You think there is no limit on the inherent authority, that these things can go on and on? Or as -- I mean, your -- your friend on the other side suggested, year as a presumption? Do you have any CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What is your -- what within Mr. Carter's knowledge. They weren't presented to the state court, potentially meritorious claims. Official MR. MICHELMAN: Well, we -- we would leave wasn't competent to stand trial, and he never -- MR. MICHELMAN: That's -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: And his mental condition stays go, we agree with the State of Ohio that most limit? it, in the first place, to the district court's discretion. We -- as far as the question of indefinite competency issues are resolved within a matter of months. So we can expect -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: But not this one because the claim is he was never competent; isn't that so? He never improved. So this person, if -- if the -- the standard is he's got to be competent, the likelihood is according to him, competent at the time he was tried. MR. MICHELMAN: Yes, Justice Ginsburg. And this -- this would be a rare case in which a stay might need to be more than months, months, a year. But because most -- most situations, the competency issue will resolve in a short period of time, this Court shouldn't fear that it's opening the floodgates to long stays in many, many cases. There -- this is a rare case with a very severely ill man, with potentially meritorious claims he will never be competent because he wasn't even, Official JUSTICE ALITO: Well, why can't the be resolved? time of trial? MR. MICHELMAN: Yes, Justice Alito. And MR. MICHELMAN: Well, because the issue -- JUSTICE ALITO: You have to be competent that require his assistance. That's not something that -- competency -- why can't the issue of competency at trial during the habeas proceeding in order to assist in proving that he was -- that he was incompetent at the that's because the competency question at this point is retrospective. We're not talking -- it's not a matter of simply examining Mr. Carter today and saying, How do you feel? What do you experience? Are you hearing the voice of the devil? But it's a question of was he doing that during his trial years ago? And that's why it's important that he be able to participate now. was a remand for a narrow stay with appropriate monitoring by the district court, to make sure that this didn't become -- just sit around on the docket for years with nobody looking at it. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Did you say that the What the Sixth Circuit ordered in this case Official MR. MICHELMAN: With respect to the CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Right. How is a --do mental health professionals make those determinations MR. MICHELMAN: Yes, Mr. Chief Justice. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: How in the world -- question is whether or not -- not whether he is competent today to assist his counsel, but whether he was years ago? I mean -- underlying claim. That's the question. on a regular basis? MR. MICHELMAN: I understand that they do, Your Honor. I understand it is possible for a person with a psychosis to recover and have memories of not a fact in -- in the record, but that's something that, if we're dispositive, could be established on remand in this case. every day, and because district courts exist as strong checkpoints to prevent non-genuine claims of competence or not potentially meritorious claims for which the petitioner's assistance is necessary, a narrow stay So it's because of the -- the rarity of these claims, because they are not going to come up experiences during that psychosis. Now, I admit that's authority should be preserved and should be applied to Official JUSTICE GINSBURG: But not staying MR. MICHELMAN: Yes, Justice Ginsburg. JUSTICE GINSBURG: And what -- what are those? issues that can go forward right away. And as to that, Mr. Carter's case. everything, according to the Sixth Circuit. The Sixth Circuit said that -- that there are issues or may be is there any issue that could be argued, despite the incompetence? MR. MICHELMAN: Well, in this case -- and I think it really illustrates the narrowness of -- of the Sixth Circuit's order. In this case, he had, for example, claims about the jury instructions. He had about the method of execution that the State of Ohio uses. don't require his assistance. And it's -- it's a that they held that only the claims that genuinely require his assistance should be stayed; the others may go forward with the help of the next friend. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: That's a pretty inefficient system, isn't it? That the judge has to claims about prosecutorial misconduct. He has a claim These claims may go forward because they measure of the Sixth Circuit's moderation and discretion Official the whole thing again? MR. MICHELMAN: Well, I -- I suppose there MR. MICHELMAN: Well -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I don't see a learn a particular record to dispose of claims through , when he knows that he's not going to be able to dispose of the petition until -- until the petitioner is competent, maybe a year later, then he has to go through district court saying, well, I'm not going to get into this until I can dispose of the whole thing. would be some appeal to the notion that the district court might stay the rest of it, simply waiting, Your Honor; but we -- we don't think that's likely to happen frequently. remaining. what the Sixth Circuit held. At page -A of the petition appendix, the Sixth Circuit ordered that all of Thank you. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel. Ms. Schimmer, you have three minutes the ineffective assistance of counsel claims be stayed REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF ALEXANDRA T. SCHIMMER ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER MS. SCHIMMER: Thank you. First off, there is nothing narrow about Official don't concede that Mr. Carter is Ford incompetent. Those -- that -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Could you tell me what the value is to wait for the Ford analysis or the Ford until Mr. Carter is competent, meaning these claims will be stayed at any and all cost to the progress and finality of the proceedings. I -- examination to the time of execution? MS. SCHIMMER: We think there are a few values, Justice Sotomayor. First of all is that the state has -- still has an interest -- first of all, we the State's interest is that it still has a powerful you seem to be saying. implementation of that sentence is ultimately forestalled by a Ford ruling, that's true in a dignitary sense, but it's also true in a practical sense, meaning the State should not -- if somebody regains competence many years down the line, the whole point of AEDPA is that the State at that time should not have to be interest in the finality of its conviction and sentence. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: "At all costs" is what litigating a stale case. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Putting that aside. MS. SCHIMMER: Putting that aside, though, MS. SCHIMMER: No. But even if the Official And to wait potentially and and JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, your adversary has not said it's total speculation. He suggests that, if years until someone's competency is restored on this total speculation that something might happen runs -- we set a standard that requires -- we can talk about what the terms are, suggestive in the record, plausible in the record, typical sort of situation -- but assuming that there is some basis to believe that the defendant can provide information of importance to the claim, why should that be -- that door be shut? his answer that, if the claim is not a new claim, but barred from a successive petition? MS. SCHIMMER: Right. Well, we still don't see how that has any traction in a case like this where, whether competent or not competent, (d) and adjudicated on the merits in state court and, therefore, no new evidence can be considered by the Federal court. So that, we think, resolves that. MS. SCHIMMER: Well, again, Your Honor -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: And how do you deal with just new information about an old claim, that he will be And in terms of how do you deal with limited stays and then going on, we would say simply that the Pinholster say this claim -- all of these claims were Official Thank you. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel. (Whereupon, at : a.m., the case in the State of Ohio's experience in this case has been that the State of Ohio has been standing ready for years to defend the judgment of its state courts in this case, even though all of Mr. Carter's claims are record based. There is no right to competence. Everybody seems to now agree on that. Indefinite stays contravene AEDPA, and we don't think that any stay is justified here because of the record-based claims. above-entitled matter was submitted.) A abandon : ability : able : : : : : above-entitled : : absolute : absolutely : abuse : accept : acknowledge : actual : additional : Additionally : addressing : adjudicate : adjudicated : :, : : : : adjudication :, : : admit : advantage : adverb : adversary : AEDPA : : : : :, : : AEDPA's : ago : : agree :, : : :, : : agreed : agrees : ahead : ALEXANDRA : :, : OfficialOfficial : :: :: ::, :: :,: :: :,:cases : :: :: ::, :cause : :cert :,certain :certainly :: :change :characterizati...: :,checkpoints:balancing : bar :, barred : : : Alito : : argued : arguendo : arguing : : : :, : : :,, argument : :,, :, :, : :, : basis : : : : : : based : : : allegation : allege : alleged : allow : : Alternatively : altogether : Amendment : American : amici : : amicus : amount : :, analogous : analysis : : articulated : aside :, asked : assist : : : : : behalf :, :,, : : : : :, behave :, behaving : : : believe : : : : : assistance : bit : :,, :, : bottom : :, : : :, boundary : : : : :, builds : : : : announce : Association : brief : : Chief :, :answer : : assume :, bright : : :, :: ::,, ::,,:, ::, ::,, ::, :childhood :answers : apologize : appeal : : :carefully :Carter : :CC : :capital :assuming : assumption : attorneys : authority : : : : appeals : : : : APPEARAN... available : : appendix : applied : approach : appropriate :, :, : :, : :,, :,, : :, : appropriateness : argue : : : aware : a.m : : : B b :, : back : : :, : : :, :, : :,, backstop :, backstops : : :: :: ::,Carter's :: :: :: ::case :,,:,,,: :,,: :, :: : ::,,:choice :Circuit :: :: :,:,Circuits :circuit's ::,circumstances: :,:claim : :,: :,: : Official : continue : continued : continuing : : contrast : contravene : : contribute : converted : conviction : convincing : correct : : : :, : : : : cost : : : costs : counsel : : :, :,, : :, : : :, : : : :, : course : court :, : :,, : : : : : :,, :, : :, : : :, : :, :, : :,,, :, : : :, :, : : :, :, courtroom : : courts : : : : : : desirable : : : : :, : : : : court's : desire : despite : determinations determines : : :, : : : : : : : : cover : crime : criminal : criterion : crucial : cut : DD :day : : deal :,death :decades :decide :,decided :deciding :decision :::declare :default :defend :defendant :: ::defendants: :defendant-frie... :defense :: :definition ::, : degree :demonstration: determining : devil : died : : dies : difference : : different : :, : : difficult : :,dignitary : diligence : diminished : disclose : discover : discovered : : : : discretion : : : : : :,,,: : : discussing : discussion : dismiss : dismissed : disowns : dispose :,,dispositive: distinction : district : : : : :,,, compared : consistent : :, : : : : :,, : : : :, : : : : :, :,, claims :, : : : : :, : :, : : : : :,, :,,, :, : : :, clear : : clerk : client : : : client's : closed : : : collateral : : colleague : Columbus : come : : : :, : : : : : comes : :, : communicate : : : competence : :, :, : : : :, :, : : : : : competency : :,, : :, :, :, : : :, : : competent : : : : : : : :, : :,,, : : : : : :, completely : complex : comports : concede : : conceded : concerned : concerns : : : : condition : : confidence : conflicting : Congress : consensus : consented-to : considered : : Constitutional : :, :, contest : context : : :,, :, : Everybody : evidence :, : : : :, Official facts : : :, : : :, : factual : fair :, : fairness : far : : fast : fear : Federal :, : : : : feel : field : fighting : filed : finality : : :, find : : finish : first :, : : : : : :, floodgates : follow : footnote : force : Ford :, : :,, forestalled : forgiving : forward :, : : :,, found : : : : frequently : : friend : : front : full :, : fully : fundamental :,, fundamentally : further : : GG :gatekeepers: :General :genuine :genuinely ::Ginsburg :: ::, : :, : :,give : : given : : go : : : : :: :: :,: :goal :goes : : going : : : ::, : :, : Gonzales :good :grant :ground :grounded :grounds :guess :guidance :guilt :,guilty :Hhabeas :, : : : : : :, : : : :, : hallucinating : happen : : : : happened : : happening : happens : : happy : hard : harder : health : : :,: hear : : : heard : hearing : : : held : : : : : help : : : higher : historical : Holland : : Honor : : : :, : : : : : : : : : hypothetical:docket : doctor :, doing : : door : draw :, due : D.C :, E E : :, earlier : : easier :, : : effective : effectively : either : : : : either/or : eliminate : eliminated : : emphasize : endorse : endorsed : engaging : enjoyed : enter : entered : entitled : entitles : equation : equitable : : : : error : especially : ESQ :, : :, essentially : establish : : : :, : :, :, : : : exact : exactly : examination : : examining : example : : excellent : excluded : exclusively : : executed : : : : :, execution : : :, : : exercise : : exist : : expect : expected : experience : : experiences : experts : expires :, exploded : extent :, : : : : Ffact : : : : established : factfinder : Official loose :,lose :,::loses :,lot :, : : :lower :Mmaintain :majority :man : : know : : :, : knowing : knowledge Laughter :: : law : : :,, knows : L: : :, : kinds : : :,, :, :,, :,, : :, : :,, :, : :,, : :,: :,: :,:, : :,,,:,,,,:,,,: :,:, : :,,,: :,: :,:, :,, :,,,:,,,:,,,:,,,:,,,:,,:,,:,,,:,, :, :, : : :,:, : : :justified :: limited : : :, : : : : :, : limits : line :, : : : : :learn : leave : : Martinez :left :, : :,legitimate : matter : : lends : length : lenient : let's :, : :, : :: :mean : : : :: ::likelihood : limit :, meaning :: ::,measure :mechanism:medication :meet ::meets :,memories :I ignored : ill : illness : illustrates : illustration imaginative Imagine : : : : implementation : importance : important : : : imposed : : imposition : improved : inadequate incompatible : : incompetence : : : incompetent : : : : : : : : :,, : : increased : indefinite : : :, : : : : :, : : : :, :, : : indefinitely : : : : : : individual : individuals : : : ineffective : : : : inefficient : information : :, : : :, inherent : : initial : innocence : instance : : : instructions : insulated : interest : : :, : interests : :, interpretation : Iqbal : issue : : : :, : issued : issues : : :, J : : judges :, judgment : judicially : jurisprudence : : jury : Justice :,, judge : : KAGAN : K : :, : : Kennedy : :, : : : :, :,, :,, : :, : :,, litigating : mental :litigation : :, : little :, :,,locked : : :long : : mentally :: : : : longer : longest : look : : looking : : looks : meritorious: :: :: ::merits ::method : Michelman : N : :,,, N :, : :,, :,, :,, :,,, :,,, : : : :, :,,, : :, :, : : :, : : :,, :, :, : :, :, :,, : : : : : : need : : needed : needs : :, : negotiated : neither : never : : :, : :,, : : : :,, new :, :, mind : : minutes : misconduct missing : : : misspoke : misstated : misunderstood : mitigating : mitigation : moderation : moment : monitoring : months :, :,, :,, : :,, morning : motion : move : : moving : : multiple : newly :, nine :, Ninth : non-genuine : : notion : O O : : objection : obtain : obviously : October : oh : : : : Ohio : : : ordered : : :, : :, :,,, overcome : :, : overstating : :, : overturned : : : : : perfectly : : : : : narrow : Ohio's : : : okay :, narrowness : : : necessarily : old : : once : : necessary :, period : : : : periodically : Official pointed : points : position :, : possibility : possible : post-conviction : : potentially : permissible : permit : permitted : :, : person : : : : petition :, : :, : : : : : :, : : : : : petitioner :, power :, :,, :, : : : : : powerful : practical : : : preconviction : :, :,,, :, : predicate : prejudice : :, preliminary petitioners : : petitioner's : :, : : petitions : :, phase : pick : picking : Pinholster : : : place : : plausibility : plausible :, : : : premise : presented : : preserved : press : presume : presumption : : presumptively :, pretty : : prevent : : open : opening : opinion : opportunity : opposing : opposite : oral : :, : : orchestrated : order : : : :, : : : P P : page : : pages : pardon : part : : participate : participation playing : please : : :,, : : : particular : point : : prevents : : : parties : : party : penalty : percent : : : :,, :, : : : : previously : principle : prisoner : : : : : prisoners : Putting :, : prisoner's :, : : : probability : : : Probably : procedural : proceed : proceeded : proceeding : : : : : proceedings : : : : :, : professionals : : progress : proper : : proposing : : prosecution prosecutorial : : proven : provide : : : : : : provided :, provides : proving : Psychiatric : psychosis : punishment : : purely : purposes : : : pursue : put : : Official : :, : record-based :, : recover : Rees :,, :,, :, : : reflect : regains : regardless : regular : relief : rely : : remainder : remaining : remand : : removed : reopen : require : :, required : requires : : reserve : resolvable : resolve : resolved : : : resolves : respect : Respondent : : : Respondents : response :, rest : restoration : restore : restored : : : : : :, : : : restrict : restrictive : resulted : retrospective : return : returned : review : : reviewing : Rhines : : right : : :, : :,, : : : : : :, : : :, : : : : : : rightly : rights : ROBERTS : :,, : :, :,,, : :, : :, : :, : role : rule : : : : :,, : ruling : runs : Ryan : SS : : safety :satisfy :saying : : : : : : says : : :, : : : :, : : : Scalia :,: : : : : : :,,:,,,:,,,: :,Schimmer : :, :,, : :, : :, :, :, :, : : : :,,:,,,: :,:,,: :,:,,:,,:,science :SCOTT : : :SEAN :second : : : : : : ::, Section :see : : : :seeking :seeks :select :sense ::,sentence :: :,sentencing : Qqualify :question :: : : :, : : ::,,: :,:,questions :: :quite :quoting :RR :raise :raises :rare :,rarity :rationale :reach : : read :readily :ready :really : : : ::, : : ::reasonable ::,,: :reasonably :reasons : : REBUTTAL: :recognizes :record : : : : : : : :,,, :,,, : :, : : Official set : settlement : severely : short : : show : showing : : : shows : shut : side : simply : :, : : : : : sit : : situation : : : : situations : : : : : : Sixth : : : : : :, :, : : small : soft :, Solicitor : somebody : somebody's someone's : : : somewhat : sorry : : : : : sort : Sotomayor : : : : :, : :, : :, : : :,, :, : :,, :, sounds : speak : : specific : speculation : :, springboard : stage : stale : stand : standard : : :, : :, : : :,,,, : :,, :, : : : : standards : :, standing : state :,, : : : : : : :, : : :,, : :,, stated :, States :, : state's : : : stating : statutory : stay : :, : : : :, :, : :,, :,,, : :, : :, : : :, : : :, : : : : : : : : : : : : stayed :, : : : : : staying : stays : : :,,, : : :, :,, : : :, : :, : : stringent : strong : : stuff : subject : submitted : successfully : successive : :, : suggest : suggested : :,,, :,, : suggestion : suggestive : suggests : support : : :, suppose : : : : Supreme :, sure : : : : suspension : sway : system : TT : :,,, : :take : : :takes ::talk :talking :talks :taxonomizetell : : ::ten :terms : : :TERRY :terse :test : : : :testify :Thank ::,,:,thing : : :things ::think :,,,: :,: :,,: : :, :,,:,,: ::,,,:, : : ::, : : :: :: third : thought : three : threshold : : Tibbals : : time : : :,,: : : :,: :, timeliness : : today : : : : told : : : : total :, traction : traditionally: treated : trial : : :, : : :, : :,: tried : true : :, : : :, : :,truly :,, : :,trust : try :,:,,: Tuesday : two : : : : :,type : typical : Uultimate :ultimately : Official : : unable : : underlying : wasn't :, : Washington : -A : : : : : way :, went : understand : weren't : : : We'll : :, : : : we're : : : : : : (b) : : : unfairness : win : understanding : understands : unexplained : :,, United :, unnecessary : : urge : useful : uses : usually : utterly : we've : whatsoever : wide : willing : window : : witness : words : works : world : worried : wouldn't : : : wrong : V v : : : value : values : vast : vetted : vindicate : virtually : voice : W wait : : : waiting : waltz : want : : wanted : wants : : : WARDEN : X x :, Y year :,, :, : : : years :, : : : :, : : : : : : : : : : : : : : - : : : : : : : (b) : (d) : : : : : : :,, :, : : : :, : : : : 