Official IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES v. JAMES E. McCUTCHEN, ET AL. Petitioner - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x US AIRWAYS, INC., IN ITS CAPACITY : : AS FIDUCIARY AND PLAN ADMINISTRATOR OF THE : : No. - US AIRWAYS, INC. EMPLOYEE BENEFITS PLAN, : : : : - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x argument before the Supreme Court of the United States at : a.m. APPEARANCES: NEAL KUMAR KATYAL, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf of JOSEPH R. PALMORE, ESQ., Assistant to the Solicitor Washington, D.C. Tuesday, November , General, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; for United States, as amicus curiae, in support of neither party. MATTHEW W.H. WESSLER, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf The above-entitled matter came on for oral Petitioner. Official of Respondents. Official C O N T E N T S PAGE On behalf of the Petitioner For United States, as amicus curiae, in support of neither party MATTHEW W.H. WESSLER, ESQ. On behalf of the Respondents On behalf of the Petitioner ORAL ARGUMENT OF ORAL ARGUMENT OF NEAL KUMAR KATYAL, ESQ. JOSEPH R. PALMORE, ESQ. ORAL ARGUMENT OF REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF NEAL KUMAR KATYAL, ESQ. Official P R O C E E D I N G S (: a.m.) Mr. Katyal. ERISA permits plan fiduciaries to seek MR. KATYAL: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice, ORAL ARGUMENT OF NEAL KUMAR KATYAL ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER appropriate equitable relief to enforce the terms of the plan. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument this morning in Case -, US Airways v. McCutchen. and may it please the Court: Six years ago, this Court, in Sereboff, concluded that reimbursement actions by ERISA plans, agreement. And because the plan's claim here is one for an equitable lien by agreement, that means one parcel of equitable defenses, those derived from unjustment enrichment, offer no help to Respondents. Sotomayor, bound by equity. Our contention is not that, once you say the magic words "equitable lien by such as the one at issue here, seek equitable liens by agreement," that somehow transforms into a "we win" as JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Mr. Katyal, if you go to equity, why aren't you bound by equity? MR. KATYAL: We certainly are, Justice Official JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So why does your lien have priority to the attorney's lien that is normally created at the commencement of the litigation? Why is the attorney bound by the agreement you signed with the beneficiary? plaintiffs at all. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, but that's exactly what your bottom line is, which is you have someone else do the work for you and you don't pay them. MR. KATYAL: Quite to the contrary, Justice Sotomayor, our position is that the rules of equity bind equitable liens by agreement, just as they bind anything else. We're not trying to say that the equity doesn't apply -- MR. KATYAL: So our position is that the attorney doesn't -- there is no lien created with the attorney; that, once Mr. Sereboff signed -- entered into an agreement with US Air, that agreement said --provided for percent reimbursement rights. And there is no -- essentially, what happened is Mr. Sereboff -- excuse me -- Mr. -- Mr. McCutchen double-promised his money. He promised it first to -- first to the US Airways plan, and then he promised it to -- to his attorneys. And that's a problem that he might have with Official JUSTICE GINSBURG: With Sereboff, that his attorneys, although, as I understand the facts here, maybe that debt has been forgiven, but it is not something that creates an independent lien on the money that's at issue here. That is, the rules in equity say that it is the agreement that controls -- when we're talking about an -- when we're talking about an equitable lien by agreement --you -- you referred to, that -- that certainly describes the lien you rely on, but there's a footnote toward the end that leaves open the make-whole doctrine and, I assume, also the common fund doctrine, so -- so it's -- it's an open question. is, quote, "Mid Atlantic's claim is not considered equitable because it is a subrogation claim. MR. KATYAL: Right. So our position is not that Sereboff's letter controls this case. We do think the reasoning of Sereboff essentially does decide the question because what Sereboff said, Justice Ginsburg --and this is at page of the opinion in the text -- it said -- the Sereboffs had argued the make-whole doctrine. And the -- in response, what this Court said Mid Atlantic's action qualifies as an equitable remedy Official And our position is, once the Court has freestanding action for equitable subrogation. because it is indistinguishable from an action to enforce an equitable lien established by agreement of the sort epitomized by our decision in Barnes. Mid Atlantic need not characterize its action as a Accordingly, the parcel of equitable defenses the Sereboffs claim accompany any such action are beside the point." Beside the point. decided that the type of action that is at issue here is an equitable lien by agreement, the relevant doctrine -- and this is a further answer to you, Justice Sotomayor -- that the Court is to look to is how are equitable liens by agreement evaluated in equity? about the law of most of the States? and an insured, that says the insured gets percent of the proceeds. I would think that the law of most States gives a superior lien to the attorney for the And those rules in equity say that, again, the general rules of equity apply and govern that; but the one place -- the one set of defenses that aren't governed, are those that sound an unjust enrichment. JUSTICE KENNEDY: I -- I recognize that we're talking about a matter of Federal law here. What Suppose there's an agreement with an insurer Official even there, Justice Kennedy, the -- the agreement is MR. KATYAL: That -- that is true, in some subrogation States. However, even with respect to that, contingent fee, notwithstanding the agreement. I'm not sure of that. It's just an assumption. when you have -- as long as it's not abrogated by statute or something like that. But if you simply have an agreement by an insured and it provides for percent reimbursement and abrogation of the common fund, enforced. So State Farm v. Clinton, which is a case cited in our brief, as long as -- as well as the Dobbs case and other decisions -- the Arkansas Supreme Court that, if you have an insurance agreement that abrogates the common fund doctrine, that that agreement is enforced. abrogation -- where is that abrogation in this -- not the plan description, but the plan itself -- what clear language in the plan bars the -- the -- And, here, of course, we're dealing --JUSTICE GINSBURG: Where is that in , the Arkansas court in -- have all said MR. KATYAL: Justice Ginsburg, the -- the district court at pages A to A of the petition Official That finding by the district court was never of the plan that's at A. That's not the plan -- MR. KATYAL: Yes. The summary plan JUSTICE GINSBURG: But that --JUSTICE KENNEDY: That -- that's the summary appendix had two pages that found the agreement clear and unambiguous with respect to abrogation of the common fund doctrine. And the plan itself is found at Joint Appendix page . appealed to the Third Circuit. It was not appealed to this Court. And, indeed, the brief in opposition conceded this issue. description is at page -- discrepancy. itself was submitted, I believe, a few days ago. The Respondents have now made an issue of it. don't -- you -- you make a distinction between reimbursement clause and the subrogation clause. And this -- as far as I can tell from the plan, is no reimbursement clause. JUSTICE GINSBURG: I'm asking about the plan itself because the plan controls if there's a MR. KATYAL: Exactly. And so the plan JUSTICE GINSBURG: Yes. And I -- and I The only one that's there is labeled Official MR. KATYAL: Your Honor, I suppose that --that they could have made this an issue when they believe Justice Ginsburg is looking at, and I think she's quite correct, that the word "abrogation," of course, is not used, but neither is the concept. "subrogation." And I looked at what's in the plan, and I don't see language that clearly abrogates the common fund. appealed the district court's finding on this. They didn't. And, indeed, there was discovery -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, I mean, you -- you want us to decide a case without looking at the plan? I have before me the same language that I Court took the case for, to say what this particular individual plan said? MR. KATYAL: And much to the -- and much to the contrary, Justice Scalia, exactly, this is the way that they framed the brief in opposition. The question presented is this: "Whether a seriously injured ERISA JUSTICE SCALIA: I didn't think we took this case to review the plan. Is -- is that what the Supreme MR. KATYAL: Absolutely not, Justice Scalia. JUSTICE SCALIA: Had that -- had that point been raised, we would not have taken the case. beneficiary must reimburse his ERISA plan for Official MR. KATYAL: Two things, Justice Kennedy. But, second, if you're concerned -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Counsel, are you percent of his medical expenses simply because the plan language so provides." JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, "simply because the plan language." I mean, obviously, we have to look at the plan language to see what the -- you're -- you're relying on the plan language. And you cite the summary, but you don't cite the main plan. First, that brief in opposition goes on to say that that plan was clear with respect to the common fund doctrine and others at page . conceding -- it? second point? you are concerned about any discrepancy, point -- . of the actual plan itself -- and this is page of the PDF that was submitted by -- lodged by my friends on the other side a few days ago -- has essentially an anti-Amara clause in it. JUSTICE SCALIA: I'm sorry. Maybe -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- the plan doesn't say JUSTICE SCALIA: Excuse me, please. The MR. KATYAL: The second point is, even if Official very well was a discrepancy. So here -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I'm sorry, the phrase language are the same. So go back to Justice Ginsburg's question It says that the benefits that are provided under the plan are those put forth in the summary plan description. So there is no discrepancy between the SPD in the plan in this case, unlike in Amara where there that you just read says that the benefits are the same. It doesn't say that the reimbursement and subrogation and point out in the plan what words you're relying upon, not the summary, but the plan. have the right to recover from any participant the amount of any benefits paid by this plan for expenses which were recovered from or paid by a source, other than this plan." participants are -- quote, "are obligated to avoid doing anything that would prejudice the plan's right of recovery." MR. KATYAL: So the plan has, in ., two things. It has, "The plan" -- quote, "The plan shall So I don't think that there is any discrepancy, Justice Sotomayor. And to the extent that And then later, in ., it says, Official JUSTICE BREYER: So if I were -- if I were Joe Smith, and a plan -- the plan pays me -- I have this Court were concerned about it, there were years for them to have made this an issue, but this is just about as procedurally barred as -- as anything -- medical expenses of $,. And, actually, the –- the -- there was a driver who caused this problem. And later, I collect ,, but I have to pay , to get the ,. third-party. I recovered , from the third-party because it cost me to get the . So I am left with , net because I had to pay my lawyers, I had to pay expert witnesses, there were a lot of different things I had to pay. I'm left with , now. So in comes the plan and says, we want ,. I say, what? Then I look at the language. The language allows them to get back expenses which were recovered from the third-party. Justice Breyer, if you were the district court judge in I didn't recover , from the Now, if I were a judge and listening to that, I'd say, assuming they wanted a reasonable interpretation of this language, it sounds pretty reasonable to me. MR. KATYAL: All right. And, Official JUSTICE BREYER: All right. But, I mean, JUSTICE BREYER: It's a little tough, since wouldn't the normal result of such a case, like any this case, I suppose you could have reached that result. The district court here -- nobody had the plan. MR. KATYAL: Well, they -- they had the summary plan description, and they did not make an issue of it. They had all sorts of discovery requests, but never made a request for that -- contract case, where you have language, even if it was the word "any," it doesn't mean wheat grown on Mars, okay? recover anything, that "any expense," it means, yes, you can recover that which was paid, but not money that you had to pay to get the amount paid. agree that a plan could be written in order to they wrote and that US Air -- highly unusual for this Court, indeed, I think, JUSTICE BREYER: But this is a plan that MR. KATYAL: -- but I think it would be procedurally unavailable for this Court to -- And so you'd say -- if it says you can MR. KATYAL: Justice Breyer, we absolutely embrace -- Official JUSTICE SCALIA: Counsel, I guess your JUSTICE BREYER: All right. So I can -- JUSTICE SCALIA: -- and not -- not on the MR. KATYAL: Absolutely. JUSTICE SCALIA: And didn't raise it. MR. KATYAL: Absolutely. JUSTICE SCALIA: And we took this case on opponent could have raised that point. the assumption that there is an issue of law involved -- The issue of law is what happens if we have a plan which says, Joe Smith, my employee, if you have to spend $, to get back ,, you have to give us back all , even though you only have in pocket. And we are supposed to assume that's what the contract said. Is that right? override that with the principle of equity? Is that the with the principle of equity. We're saying that the rules of equity, if they have in the plan an abrogation of the common fund, as that is here, in the way this case comes to the Court, then that is what settles the issue you see before us? MR. KATYAL: So, again, we're not overriding assumption that -- JUSTICE BREYER: What is the issue of law? And then -- and then we say, now, can you Official And so it's not a contract around, Justice Now, you could have a Sereboff plan, which question. says the reverse, which says, we're going to have a common fund doctrine and avoid that problem at the outset. The parties evaluate the valuation of the transfer of assets at the outset, and that's what controls. And if they want to buy into the common fund, as this Court said in Sereboff, that's absolutely enforceable. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Was the plan available to the employee at any time before this litigation? have -- advised that they can ask for the plan? Sotomayor, doctrines of equity. It's simply a reflection of the general rule that, in equity, if --when we're talking about equitable liens by agreement, it is the agreement that controls, that starts the ball game. MR. KATYAL: Sure. If they had asked for the plan, it could have been provided to them. They CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Are they -- are they MR. KATYAL: I -- I'm not quite sure about that. I will look into that and try and get you an Official JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I thought it took most MR. KATYAL: Justice Sotomayor, at the JUSTICE SCALIA: You say, "they." I assume MR. KATYAL: Their lawyer. JUSTICE SCALIA: This is not -- you know, an answer on that. of the litigation for the plan to be provided. outset, they asked for the summary plan description or the plan. The summary plan description was provided. Only -- you mean their lawyer? ignorant layman who knows nothing about the law. minute that US Air found out that a tort -- a plaintiff's lawyer was hired, they sent a letter to that lawyer saying, we assert a right of reimbursement. you about the legal argument that you are making, the distinction you are making between reimbursement agreements and subrogation agreements, which you think -- seem to think is critical here. And -- you know, once you put it in one box, rather than another, MR. KATYAL: That's correct. JUSTICE SCALIA: The lawyer, you say, did not ask for the plan. MR. KATYAL: And -- and I should say, the JUSTICE KAGAN: But, Mr. Katyal, could I ask Official subrogation agreement? And what follows from that MR. KATYAL: Yes. JUSTICE KAGAN: So -- so how do you know the plan says, we are going to inherit all of the benefits and burdens of the insured in bringing an action. It's a vicarious -- it's a kind of vicarious notion. some result follows -- different results follow. whether you have a reimbursement agreement or a categorization? MR. KATYAL: So, Justice Kagan, there are two very distinct rights. Subrogation is the right to stand in someone else's shoes. And so the insured -- to give you this money because we're not at fault in this accident, but we're going to essentially advance it to you, but you've got to reimburse us for it. And so -- MR. KATYAL: So if it were a subrogation agreement, I think my friend's case on the other side gets a lot stronger because there are subrogation cases JUSTICE KAGAN: So if this were a subrogation agreement, what would follow? Reimbursement's an entirely different concept. It's the idea that, look, we're not obligated that -- that have different rules. Official But when you talk about reimbursement, which And you can't -- JUSTICE KAGAN: So if your friend's argument to just take that because that's the way the Court --it's come to us? Or -- or is there an argument about why there is a reimbursement? is not the right to stand in someone's shoes, but a first priority absolute agreement between the parties to get money, it's just simply a dispute about that money. would get a lot stronger if it were a subrogation agreement, how do we tell that this agreement is a reimbursement agreement, rather than -- are we supposed MR. KATYAL: There is an argument. And, indeed, all I think you have to do, Justice Kagan, is look at what happened in Sereboff because, in Sereboff, you had essentially the same thing, a plan that had both a reimbursement provision and a subrogation provision. And the -- the beneficiaries in Sereboff were saying, hey, this is subrogation, this is subrogation. And the language that I've read to Justice Ginsburg at page , as well as earlier language in the opinion, said, no, this is actually a claim for an equitable lien by agreement that does not sound in subrogation, that sounds in reimbursement. And so all you have to do here is precisely Official an equitable lien by agreement; and, if those are If they understood that things would work what this Court unanimously did in Sereboff, which is to say, look at the nature of the action, is this an action that seeks personal liability, does it specify a particular fund, the typical hallmarks of an action for present, as they are here, that is enough. JUSTICE ALITO: Are you, in effect, asking for a windfall because Mr. McCutchen and his attorneys didn't understand what ERISA means in this context? things. One, the rule on ERISA -- and this rule has v. Ryan in , this is a long-established rule -- if an attorney comes and takes a case, knowing that there is a -- an ERISA plan at stake, seems to me they're at least on inquiry notice that there would be some out the way you think they should work out and they saw that the limits of the insurance policies against which they could collect were $,, wouldn't they have realized that this was a suit that wasn't worth pursuing? There would be no point in doing it because nothing would be -- nothing would be gained for Mr. McCutchen or for the attorneys. been the rule in the Third Circuit since Federal Express MR. KATYAL: Not at all, Justice Alito. Two sort of -- Official MR. KATYAL: Not so. This is both in our What usually happens in these situations is JUSTICE ALITO: Well, perhaps they should have realized it. But, if they realized it, they have no incentive to pursue this litigation or to pursue the tort decision -- brief, as well as the Blue Cross amicus brief. that an agreement is struck in advance, before the lawsuit is filed, between the plan and the plaintiff's attorney to reach some accommodation. After all, the plan has an incentive in some sort of action being brought -- wrote -- the attorney wrote to you any number of times your position is, I'm going to go forward. those situations, just drop the lawsuit? precisely what the district court evaluated on the summary judgment motion. They had made a big issue about our failure to communicate and so on. The district court rejected all of those arguments -- MR. KATYAL: Your Honor, I don't think that quite is an accurate statement of the facts. That was JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Rejected it because it JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: In this case, he and finally said, look, unless you come and tell me what So what are attorneys supposed to do in Official Air found out about it -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Counsel, were they MR. KATYAL: I do -- I do think that there were lots -- and this is in Joint Appendix, pages to had nothing to do with the agreement, but it didn't reject them as a factual matter, that you were contacted. -- lots of communications between the two. Now, here's -- there was one place where there wasn't communication, which was they went and negotiated a secret settlement of $,. And when US supposed to -- if the insurance limit was $,, are you suggesting that that was a bad-faith settlement? typically do in the lion's share of cases, as I was saying to Justice Alito, where you work these things out in agreement -- in advance with clear lines of communication. And so -- argument that this is not subrogation. The plan is JUSTICE KENNEDY: Justice Kagan's question had two parts. She said, tell me about the two boxes, subrogation and reimbursement. MR. KATYAL: I am suggesting that we didn't have the opportunity, Justice Sotomayor, that we I think there is quite a bit to your rather confusingly drafted. The plan calls it Official MR. KATYAL: Because the common fund rule --And, indeed, up until six months ago, seven different circuit courts had evaluated this question of whether the agreement can trump the common fund doctrine. of circuit court judges all said it did. subrogation. I don't think it really means subrogation. If it's not subrogation, Justice Kagan's question was, what then? The -- the common fund rule still does not apply? Because? and, this, we are in agreement on, the parties -- the common fund rule is a doctrine based in unjust enrichment. This is what they say at page . This is what all the courts say common fund is. there is no discretion in the equitable decrees that the right. The agreement sets the evaluation of the parties. That's what the State Farm case says, what their own treatise says, what the Arkansas Supreme Court MR. KATYAL: Yes. JUSTICE KENNEDY: And are you saying that JUSTICE KENNEDY: But you are still in equity, pursuant to the statute. judge made? MR. KATYAL: That -- that is precisely says. MR. KATYAL: That -- that is correct. JUSTICE SCALIA: Where there is a legal MR. KATYAL: That is correct. And as the Restatement, "A valid contract defines the obligations of the parties as to matters within its scope, displacing to that extent any inquiry into unjust enrichment." Any inquiry. unusual. The motto is equity follows the law. Doesn't -- doesn't that usually -- isn't that usually the case? right, equity cannot overcome it. Solicitor General says, at page , quoting the (a)() invokes the equitable powers of the district court. All of the remedial powers of a court in equity If I could reserve the balance of my time? CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel. Mr. Palmore. ORAL ARGUMENT OF JOSEPH R. PALMORE, FOR UNITED STATES, AS AMICUS CURIAE, IN SUPPORT OF NEITHER PARTY MR. PALMORE: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice, and may it please the Court: As this Court's cases recognize, Section Official JUSTICE SCALIA: That's -- that's not are available that -- under Section (a)(), that Official At equity, when there was a -- an equitable JUSTICE SCALIA: Equitable powers to enforce would have been available when an analogous claim was brought. And -- the agreement? MR. PALMORE: Yes. And so we agree with Mr. Katyal in what we've characterized as the first question presented, that we think is essentially decided by this Court's case in Sereboff. with Mr. Katyal's view of this distinction between subjugation -- subrogation agreements and reimbursement there is certainly a distinction, and the Couch Insurance treatise talks about the -- the distinction. But the Couch Insurance treatise also explains that the terms are often used interchangeably in a confusing way. lien by agreement, that agreement was generally enforceable according to its terms. It was like a mortgage, is the classic case, and the mortgage gave a security interest in land; and, if the debt was not paid off, then the lienholder could -- could foreclose on that land. JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Palmore, do you agree agreements and which this agreement is? MR. PALMORE: I think that's a -- the -- Official that the courts do use these terms interchangeably. So I don't think that the bright line that Mr. Katyal seeks to establish between subrogation and reimbursement is necessarily reflected in all the cases and all the --JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, I think you can say that about any legal rule, that some courts bollox them up. I mean, that means the rule doesn't exist because it's sometimes used in a confusing way? JUSTICE SCALIA: What's the rule? What's the rule? Do you acknowledge that that is the rule? MR. PALMORE: We acknowledge that, when there is a -- when there is a contractual plan-based reimbursement provision like this, it is enforceable as an equitable lien by agreement, in the same way that an equitable lien by agreement would have been -- said that, if this were a subrogation agreement, Mr. McCutchen would have a much better argument because a different set of rules would apply. And so that makes this categorization question quite meaningful. Now, you could say, well, we don't see it as all that meaningful. We think, no matter what you call this agreement, the same rules apply. Or you could say, MR. PALMORE: No, I think it's just the fact JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, but I think Mr. Katyal Official MR. PALMORE: Right. We think -- as the --as the case comes to the Court, this is a case for decisions, they're bringing in all kinds of concepts from State law, from insurance law, from public policy of the State. They don't necessarily reflect what would have happened in a court in equity at the time of the divided bench, and that's the import -- yes, different rules apply with respect to these two different kinds of agreements, and your job is to figure out which kind of agreement this is. reimbursement. This is just like Sereboff, and this is a reimbursement agreement. What -- what adds to the confusion is that -- and if you look at more modern insurance I take it the common fund doctrine says, if this victim here got some money back from the person who caused the accident, that that money goes into a common fund, in the sense that those who share in the fund must share as well in the cost of producing the fund. question. I think, now, what we're being asked to decide is, from your point of view, does the common fund doctrine apply? JUSTICE BREYER: But that's my exact So if it costs , to produce ,, which is in the fund, that we have to have US Air, as Official But I hear the argument, fair though it is, And so what is your response to that? In particular, why do you say the common fund doctrine well, pay part of the cost of producing the fund. That sounds very fair. we have here an agreement, and in this agreement, it says, it's as if it said, and you shall not apply the common fund doctrine or any other equitable doctrine, such as he who seeks equity must do equity, etc. And I think that's the question that's being asked. applies, though the contract says it doesn't, we assume, but all these other equitable doctrines don't apply? equitable -- equitable doctrines that apply are the JUSTICE BREYER: Good. So now, we have th century authority which says that, in the th century, Lord Cooke or someone said that the common fund doctrine applies, but the other doctrines don't. And the -- and MR. PALMORE: Well, there is not one authority that is going to give you both -- both answers. But the equitable lien by agreement cases from the time of equity, as I mentioned before, were typically mortgage cases or a promise to provide future equitable doctrines that would have applied at equity. MR. PALMORE: Because we think the the name and citation to that authority is? Now, there is a separate line of authority in a -- really a different silo involving equitable acquired funds to discharge a debt. could be executed, according to its terms. The unjust enrichment principles that Respondent is invoking were restitution. And this Court in Sereboff said, we are not going to look at equitable restitution principles, we are going to look at equitable lien by agreement cases. If you look back to the principal case that established this, the Greenough case that we talk about in our brief, the Court said that the -- Mr. Vose, who -- the bondholder who had secured a benefit for all the bondholders, had -- while not a trustee, had acted the part of a trustee. And it was a well-settled principle of trust law, both then and now, that a trustee is entitled to reimbursement for reasonable expenses from the trust itself. involving the common fund that we talk about in our brief. And, as Mr. Katyal said, it has at times been characterized as an unjust enrichment doctrine, but its roots are different. Its roots are actually in an analogy to trust law. Official And it's clear, under those cases, that that JUSTICE SCALIA: Was there an agreement that Official MR. PALMORE: There was no agreement in -- JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, but we have an agreement here, so how does -- how does that line of MR. PALMORE: Because, Justice Scalia, JUSTICE SCALIA: We have an agreement, which says that the insurance company gets all the money. So contradicted that? in Greenough that contradicted that. authority apply? I -- I -- you either say that that agreement can be overcome by equity, or else, you -- you say the agreement prevails. Justice Scalia. One is that -- that a plan can't add to or subtract from the powers of the court in equity, under Section (a)(). A plan couldn't disclaim a claimant's ability to get an injunction -- to enforce the agreement. powers, and it can use various of them to enforce the agreement. MR. PALMORE: The powers to enforce -- JUSTICE SCALIA: There are various equitable MR. PALMORE: But we don't think --JUSTICE SCALIA: That's quite different from JUSTICE SCALIA: But it only has the powers MR. PALMORE: There are two answers, Official But, if I could go to an equity answer, because I think this is important --MR. PALMORE: Not on general unfairness in equity as it finds them. And the -- and the plan rewriting the agreement, which is what you are using it for here. MR. PALMORE: No, we -- we are saying that Section (a)() takes the settled powers of the court can't divest the Court of those powers, it can't add to those powers, like this Court held in Great-West; it also can't take away from them. JUSTICE SCALIA: Excuse me. Do you really think that if -- if an equity court finds the agreement to be unfair, it can say, he who seeks equity must do equity, and rewrite the agreement, so that it's fairer? grounds, but it was a settled principle at trust -- of trust law, and remember, Greenough based the common fund doctrine on trust law that if, for instance, a trust document had said, the trustee shall take his expenses from the trust corpus, not from the income -- or vice-versa, says the trustee shall take his expenses from the income, but not from the trust corpus -- if that proved unworkable or unfair and the trustee couldn't discharge his obligations to maintain the trust, the court of equity had broad reformation powers It wasn't further reflection. We have a new Secretary now under a new administration, right. MR. PALMORE: We do have a new Secretary previously advanced. You make their point in footnote and was not bound by that trust document. position that the United States is advancing today is different from the position that the United States of your brief. You say that, in prior case, the Secretary of Labor took this position. And then you say that, upon further reflection, the Secretary is now of the view -- that is not the reason. under a new administration. But that -- change in position, that it's not based on further reflection of the Secretary. It's not that the Secretary is now of the view -- there has been a change. We are seeing a lot of that lately. your position, but don't tell us it's because the Secretary has reviewed the matter further, the Secretary is now of the view. Tell us it's because there is a new Secretary. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I think it would be more candid for your office to tell us when there is a It's perfectly fine if you want to change Official CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Counsel, the -- the MR. PALMORE: Well, with respect, Official And, of course -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Then tell us the law Mr. Chief Justice, the law has changed since that brief was filed nearly ten years ago in the Court's of Appeal. has changed. Don't say the Secretary is now of the view. It's not the same person. You cite the prior Secretary by name, and then you say, the Secretary is now of the view. I found that a little disingenuous. MR. PALMORE: Well, I apologize for that, Your Honor, but we do cite in that footnote the Amara case, and that is a key element to our position here because Amara said that Section (a)() incorporates the traditional powers of the court at equity. surcharge remedy, the ability to reform contracts -- before. Was it thought before that all the equitable in the way they are now before -- before Sereboff -- that the court had all equitable powers. That's not a JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: The ability -- JUSTICE SCALIA: We never doubted that And it talked about, not only the ability to issue an injunction, but the ability to provide for a change in the law. It's just a restatement of the powers did not exist under ERISA? MR. PALMORE: These cases weren't litigated JUSTICE SCALIA: It seems to be self-evident Official JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Or not to enforce it, powers was the ability to enforce an equitable lien by hand. And so the court could decide not to reach into the pocket of the plan participant to pay back money that the lawyer has. obvious. MR. PALMORE: And we think the court has all equitable powers and a plan term can't divest the court of those equitable powers, so among those equitable agreement without looking at inapplicable unjust enrichment -- meaning the equity is to enforce it or to stay your to the common fund doctrine, and we think that, to the extent this Court is willing to look at the -- at the -- the purposes of ERISA, that the position that we've advanced strikes the right balance, and in particular, it avoids the -- the negative recovery scenario that is a particularly harsh result of Petitioner's position. Thank you. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel. Mr. Wessler. MR. PALMORE: Well, we do agree with respect ORAL ARGUMENT OF MATTHEW W.H. WESSLER ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTS MR. WESSLER: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it Official In equity, these claims were governed, JUSTICE SCALIA: Your opponent says this is nowhere. He would concede that point. You have to tell us why this is a subrogation agreement, even though you conceded below that it isn't. please the Court: Reimbursement claims that are based on an express subrogation agreement are subject to equitable principles of subrogation. according to the same principles that governed every other type of subrogation. not a subrogation agreement, so that argument goes subrogation agreement. The claim, however, that Petitioners have pursued here, is a reimbursement claim. And -- but it's based on an express subrogation clause. And in equity, reimbursement claims, which, to be clear, are distinct from subrogation claims because they involve a suit directly against the insured, as opposed to against the tortfeasor, are governed by the same principles of subrogation that equity treated -- equity used that -- to apply to all claims that involved an insurer who is seeking to recover money from either an insured or a tortfeasor. And so we concede, absolutely, Your Honor, MR. WESSLER: Your Honor, it is a Official JUSTICE SCALIA: That's not what I say Now, you -- you say it is not an equitable lien by agreement? Is that your position? you've conceded. That's the common fund doctrine. Your that the claim is one for reimbursement for monies recovered out of a fund obtained by the insured. But it's -- it's based on an expressed subrogation -- opponent denies that the common fund doctrine applies. And it says this is an equitable lien by agreement, so that the common fund doctrine doesn't apply. MR. WESSLER: No, Your Honor. We -- it -- to be clear, it is an equitable lien by agreement, but it arises within the doctrine of subrogation, which is, as Couch and Palmer and other treatises explain, is an umbrella term that is used to describe all of the rights and rules that govern claims by insurers for money back after they've paid it out under a policy. Now, the form of the action in this case is a -- is a claim for reimbursement out of a fund, but the mere fact that that's the form of the action, which, in Sereboff, this Court called an equitable lien by agreement, does not alter the underlying rule that equity courts in the days of the divided bench would have applied to the claim. JUSTICE KAGAN: But doesn't Sereboff suggest Official they not the beside the point? free-standing claim or free-standing action for equitable subrogation are beside the point. A free-standing action for equitable subrogation is not one based on an agreement. It's an implied claim, a claim for subrogation or reimbursement based on the mere fact that the insurer has paid the money. not? I mean, I realize that Sereboff has this footnote, but if you read the text in Sereboff, it says, these affirmative defenses that would arise in a normal subrogation context are beside the point. So how are MR. WESSLER: They are not beside the point for -- for one reason, and let me -- let me explain why. What the Court actually said in Sereboff was that the parcel of equitable defenses accompanying a Sereboff, there was no agreement? MR. WESSLER: There was, but what this Court -- there was absolutely an agreement, just as there is an agreement in this case. What the -- the distinction the Court drew in Sereboff was it said that whatever principles apply to free-standing claims are beside the point, because -- precisely because the claim was based on an agreement. That is absolutely correct. JUSTICE KAGAN: So is that true that, in And it's perfectly consistent with our Official in fact, governed by the same principles of unjust that the insured party was making, that the insured party was saying, hey, look, we have these great defenses. position because we believe that the principles in equity that governed exactly the kinds of claims that were at issue in Sereboff and are at issue here, reimbursement claims based on an express agreement, are, enrichment. JUSTICE KAGAN: I guess I don't understand that because it seems to me that, when Sereboff said it was beside the point, they were refuting the arguments agreement, but they also said they have these great don't work for you here. beneficiary, Your Honor, in Sereboff, argued that the defenses that applied to a -- a freestanding or implied the measure of relief available in the case. matter. The -- the agreement makes no difference. What the plan is trying to obtain here is a pure, freestanding claim for subrogation. And -- and look at claim for equitable subrogation should control the -- They said -- it -- the contract doesn't And -- and you are saying they had an defenses, and the Court said, too bad, those defenses MR. WESSLER: The Court -- the -- the Official JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So what -- what's the And the Court said, absolutely correctly, in freestanding subrogation claims have one set of remedies or rights, and subrogation, by agreement, have another. So what do you see as the differences between the two? all these great rules that apply to that -- to that kind of claim. Sereboff, whatever those principles are doesn't matter because this is a claim based on an agreement. And -- but what our view in this case is -- difference between the two? Meaning -- I take your argument to be that the Court was right before, that MR. WESSLER: When it comes to the rules that govern relief, there is no difference. The same principle of unjust enrichment controls, and it limits an insurer to recovering out of the fund only -- exercise of futility, in writing what it did in MR. WESSLER: Not so, Your Honor. It did not reach the question in Sereboff of what rules apply to -- to reimbursement claims based on express agreement. That was footnote . JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So was the Court in an Sereboff? The Court said, all we're holding in Official JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Counsel, I understand there's no difference between the two? You -- you've Sereboff is this is a -- the argument. It's a bit unsettling that you've got two kinds of rights, one implied and one express, and got to give them a little bit more body to have a persuasive argument. was the rule. And I'll point this Court's attention to the leading treatise on equity. It's Palmer's treatise cited by this Court in Sereboff and in Great West. discusses, precisely, this claim on pages and of his -- of his treatise, and it's cited on page of our brief. And he says that, "The same principle of unjust enrichment controls claims for reimbursement arising out of an express agreement." MR. WESSLER: Yes, I'm about to quote that. And he says that that principle, quote, "should serve to limit the effectiveness of contract provisions which in terms provide for reimbursement out And I'm quoting here -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Isn't there another line after that, that says something -- MR. WESSLER: Your Honor, in equity, that And what Palmer says -- and he -- he of the insured's tort recovery, without regard to Official whether or the extent to which that recovery includes medical expense." CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Is this the part -- I might be mixing this up with something else, but is this the part where he says, unfortunately, the courts don't agree with that? (Laughter.) MR. WESSLER: He -- he -- he identifies two decisions -- that -- you're correct, Your Honor -- he identifies two decisions, which did something contrary to that rule. But, in his view, that is the rule that governs these claims. the -- the simple argument. We have an agreement here, and the plan is asking for what the agreement gives it. Why is the plan unjustly enriched by receiving exactly what the plan entitles it to receive? these insurance reimbursement cases arose in a very different context from most other equitable lien by agreement cases. cases and all or -- or more of the cases that the Petitioner cites, is that they involve a third party, who has caused the loss both to the insurer and the JUSTICE GINSBURG: Let's go back to what MR. WESSLER: Because, Your Honor, these -- And the core difference in -- between these Official In these three-party cases, however, because enrichment, but was also co-extensive with or consistent with the loss under the contract. insured. And that third party, the tortfeasor, in these reimbursement cases is not the defendant. And so, in two-party equitable lien by agreement cases, which are -- all of the cases that Petitioner cites involve two-party cases in which the defendant is also the wrongdoer, is the person who is culpable and who has caused the -- the Plaintiff's loss. In those cases, when courts awarded relief, they awarded relief that was consistent with the defendant's unjust the defendant, who is -- who is a beneficiary, not -- not the tortfeasor, did not actually trigger the loss, apply to -- to measure the relief available under the claim. fund that is insufficient, where it cannot cover all of the losses suffered by all of the parties, that -- that all of the parties must share equally with -- of the loss. And the Palmer -- Palmer itself has an entire chapter devoted to third-party problems. And --courts developed, in equity, a different set of rules to And what they said was, where there is a JUSTICE BREYER: Why -- why is it so unfair? I've been putting it in a way that looks unfair, which Official expenses back, and any extra money, we give to you, and favors your side. But US Air or the equivalent says, now, here is the deal, we'll pay your medical expenses. And now, if somebody causes those expenses, you come to us, and we decide whether we want to sue and get our we pay our attorneys' fees extra. They don't count against the fund. And if our lawyers tell us it isn't worth it, you're free to sue; but, I'll tell you what, your lawyer is going to be at the end of the queue. We're first, then comes your lawyer, and anything left over goes to you. Now, if you can find a lawyer that takes it on those conditions, good for you. But he might because he might think he's going to get -- but our lawyers have already told us it's not going to work, so that's the situation. point would be, well, what's unfair about that? what we want to do. And you're free to sue; it's just your lawyer who's going to come at the end of the queue, okay? What's -- why is that unfair? MR. WESSLER: Your Honor, it's unfair Now, what's -- I'm not -- I think US Air's That's -- that makes sure we get our money back. That's Official Now, if this were a legal case and that were because, in equity, parties could not defeat the rules that typically apply. a legal claim, there's nothing unfair about that. The parties can structure their contracts or agreements as they see fit. But the fact is that we are talking about the rules that equity applied in these situations. JUSTICE SCALIA: So whenever you have a contract that explicitly, although -- you know, nowadays when the merged bars, I suppose, you wouldn't even have to say it, but let's assume it explicitly says that rights under this contract can be enforced in law or -- at law or in equity. decide whether it's fair? think that's right. And I would point the Court to -- to its decision in McKee in , in which it drew a claim based on a contract, which could happen, and a claim in equity that was a, quote, "purely equitable claim," based on the contract. JUSTICE SCALIA: Why isn't this a legal claim? It's -- it's a promise made in a contract. distinction between a claim in equity that was a legal Whenever -- whenever you have a contract like that, it's going to be up to the court of equity to MR. WESSLER: No, Your Honor. I -- I don't Official To be sure, the contract says that --claim, not a legal claim? MR. WESSLER: It -- it could be either, Your Why -- why is that not a legal claim? that -- you know, all equitable remedies are available to enforce that claim. But why is it an equitable Honor. And we've cited -- cited to this Court cases in -- in the days of the divided bench, in which a party could have sought legal relief for breach for this exact kind of claim, but there was also a remedy that a party could seek in equity. But in order to do that, in order to -- to enter equity's doors on this reimbursement theory, it -- it had to agree to allow other parties their correlative rights in equity, and it also had to agree not to override or defeat the -- the rules in equity that typically would -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: Well, couldn't that party simply say, I want to go to the other side of the court? You just made a distinction between the remedy at law and at equity. This is the plan, and if the plan is told, well, if you go to equity, you get all these extra things. You could say, I'm asserting my rights at law. plan is in a bind here. And we know this from Sereboff MR. WESSLER: No, Your Honor. The -- the Official The only remedy -- the only provision in JUSTICE KENNEDY: The general rule in equity was that the equity court would not give a specific performance decree to pay a certain amount of money, was the general rule. Were there exceptions? and Great West and Mertens. They cannot seek legal relief under this contract. ERISA's enforcement section that allows that is Section (a)()(b). And it says, a party has rights to -- has the right to enforce the terms of the plan. But -- but fiduciaries like Petitioner are not allowed to pursue relief under that provision, so all they get is purely equitable relief under (a)(). MR. WESSLER: And there were -- there were exceptions, but we don't view this case as a specific performance case. And I'm not sure Petitioner -- case. That -- that was a specific type of -- of remedy. The remedy here that's being sought is an equitable lien by agreement, but -- but in our view, when an insurer MR. WESSLER: Your Honor --JUSTICE KENNEDY: And -- and if so, do those exceptions bear on this case? JUSTICE KENNEDY: We -- you don't view the case as? MR. WESSLER: As a specific performance Official The -- the insurer could not get more out of the fund than its share of the fund that accounted for the medical expenses it paid, and it must have agreed to reduce proportionately for an amount of -- of fees and costs. sought to enforce, through an equitable lien by agreement, a claim or a lien on a fund, it must agree to take that relief, subject to the way equity would have treated the claim. And what Palmer and what Couch and -- and what the cases we've cited say is that, even for those reimbursement claims that are based or arise on an express agreement, that the relief available is limited in two concrete ways. which is -- JUSTICE BREYER: Well -- well, let me tell you what I'm thinking of. The -- there is a contract, all written down. They forgot to put a seal on it. They forgot to put a seal on it. So I guess it's now or some year like that. So they go into equity. JUSTICE BREYER: Enter best case -- what is your best case? I'd love to find it. There's a case that says something like this. MR. WESSLER: The Svea case, Your Honor, And now, they are in equity. And the Official plaintiff says, judge, I want you to enforce this contract. He says, I'm a judge in equity. He says, I know, but we've agreed, and you enforce it in equity. The contract says, give Smith all the wheat. And equity says -- you know, there are other people who would like some of this wheat, too, so we are not going to follow the contract. We are going to modify the contract according to equitable principles, which, as you say, they can do. And the other side says, no, they wouldn't. They'd follow the contract. They are just in equity because they forgot the seal. Okay. What is your best case to show they did, indeed, modify it with the common fund doctrine or some other doctrine? I want to be sure to read it with there is not a single equitable lien case that -- that Petitioners have found in which a court has --you about what they found. I was asking what you found. MR. WESSLER: So -- so, Your Honor, the Svea case, is -- is, I think, our best example. And in that case, the insurer had a subrogation agreement, which authorized it to recover -- authorized recovery to, quote, "the extent of its payment" out of, quote, "all JUSTICE BREYER: I know, but I didn't ask a magnifying glass. MR. WESSLER: Well, Your Honor, to be clear, Official And in that case, there was an underlying This is exactly the kind of case we're not participate in that underlying proceeding at all. rights of recovery of the insured." settlement that the insured reached with the tortfeasor, the wrongdoer. And after that occurred, the insurer did And after that occurred, the insurer then directly sued the insured. talking about here, seeking recovery out of the fund. And they based that claim on their -- on their express subrogation agreement. And they said, we paid approximately $,. You recovered something like $,. We should get $, back. fund was insufficient to cover all of the losses -- the -- the insured did not recover for all of its losses, several other claimants did not recover for all of their losses -- and the court said that, because the fund was insufficient, the -- the insurer was limited to recovering -- and I'm quoting here -- "no more than its proportion of the amount recovered after deducting costs and fees." cap that we believe applied in every single case in And so they applied both the double recovery And the court there said, no, because the equity in which an insurer -- Official JUSTICE SCALIA: From what court, what --what year? MR. WESSLER: The highest court in Maryland, JUSTICE SCALIA: What -- what case is this? MR. WESSLER: This is the Svea case, Your because we're supposed to be looking back to before the s sometime. Honor. I believe from . JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Wessler, would it be fair to say -- I mean, we're in this unusual position Would it be fair to say that we just don't have very many cases, and Mr. Katyal doesn't have any, and you don't have any, that raise this question that, contract, and we try to figure out whether the equity court is going to use these unjust enrichment defenses? Would it be fair to say that we just don't know? in courts of equity. reasons, Your Honor. MR. WESSLER: I -- I think -- I think that it's fair to say that this did not arise that frequently JUSTICE KAGAN: Why didn't it? MR. WESSLER: Be -- for -- for several where somebody walks into an equity court with a First, most of these claims arose simply as Official However, that -- that changed approximately And so what insurers began to do to get around that prohibition was to insert in their -- in freestanding or implied claims. So there was not -- there was no need for an insurer to include in its insurance policy an expressed subrogation agreement. around the turn -- the mid-th century, when medical insurance started to become an increasing commodity. When that occurred, most States had a -- a prohibition on the assignment of personal injury claims. their policies an express clause allowing them to obtain reimbursement from the insured, in the event that the insured recovered money that it had paid. be in the plan. And that's because Section (a)() itself does not allow for a plan, like Petitioner, to obtain a general right to equitable relief. All that the Petitioner can -- can seek here is equitable -- plan. provision, like a subrogation clause, it would not be entitled to pursue a -- a general right to subrogation. Now, there is another reason in this case --or in these ERISA cases -- why these agreements need to appropriate equitable relief to enforce the terms of its And so, in the absence of an expressed It's a term -- that back-end reference is Official CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Counsel, can -- I which you've had all the time, says, on page , "This is only a summary. Complete plan details are contained in a legal plan document. If there is any difference between the information in the summary and the legal plan, the legal plan" -- "the legal plan document will govern." a -- is a term of limitation that limits the types of claims that Petitioner can bring in these cases. want to give you an opportunity to respond to the argument that you've waived, the -- the -- your argument based on the distinction between the summary of the plan and the plan. And there are two things that concern me about that, in particular. The summary of the plan, notice that, if there were any difference between it and the plan, the plan would govern. You received a copy of the plan in June of . Okay? So when you had the summary, you were on And as late as August th of , two-and-a-half months afterward, you filed a Joint Appendix that didn't -- didn't contain the provision that you say now governs. So why shouldn't you be held to have waived that? The first time we found out about that was Official CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Which was four lodged with us last week for the first time. So didn't you waive it? MR. WESSLER: Well, I -- I don't think we in your red brief that was filed -- June, July, August, September -- three months -- October -- four months after you had the plan. waived it, Your Honor. It's in our opening brief on the merits to this Court, and -- months after you had the plan and -- and the plan was MR. WESSLER: That's correct, Your Honor. In our view -- and -- and I think I need to be clear about this. I mean, the -- the fact that the plan contains a different set of rights than -- than the SPD, to us, is meaningful in -- in its -- in its effect that it will have on this case when this -- if and when this Court remands because -- because, in our view, the rights are different. the strong form argument that Petitioners have made here, which is that, on the SPD, it can defeat the -- the rules that typically would have applied, that equity would not have allowed that. And so -- However, I -- it doesn't change the underlying nature of our argument, which is that, even CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: The problem is that Official arbitrary and capricious. document. MR. WESSLER: That -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: And what the the district court interpreted the plan as precluding the claim you're making here. And your argument that that's not true is based not on the summary of the plan, but on the plan itself. district court does is it defers to the administrator's interpretation of the plan. So the district court found that the administrator's interpretation was not So what your friend is arguing is that, well, you are kind of stuck with the district court interpretation, and you can't, at the last minute, argue that it shouldn't control because of some other have the right to argue that on remand, Your Honor. And -- and this Court's decision in Cigna only -- only arose in this case after the -- the briefs were complete changed the law to the extent that all parties are now on notice and know that the plan document will trump any contrary language -- MR. WESSLER: Well -- well, we think we do to the Third Circuit. And so it's -- I -- I think Cigna has CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, no, Cigna Official Cigna to tell you that. MR. WESSLER: Well -- well, Your -- Your even -- even as it relates to the actual language in the SPD and that -- and that whatever differences between the SPD and the plan actually are don't necessarily change the rules that govern when a -- when a party in equity sought this kind of reimbursement relief directly from -- from an insured. didn't tell you that. The plan -- the summary told you that. It says, "Complete plan details are in the legal plan. If there is any difference between the summary and the plan, the plan controls." So you didn't need Honor, I mean, I -- I think that the -- the -- you know, that -- for us, that's an issue on remand. We're comfortable that our arguments in this case control, or so, to discuss the common fund rule because I do think it applies as a separate and distinct rule, regardless of how this Court interprets the agreement as beneficiary, and the plan. Court, in Pettus, made clear that the common fund doctrine confers a separate lien on the attorney. And governing the rights between Mr. McCutchen, the I'd like, just -- just for the last minute And I'd just like to point out that this so whatever the agreements control between the Official And -- and I -- and I'd just like to point beneficiary and the plan has, it cannot defeat the rights that the attorney has, as a separate matter, to come into court and invoke its own lien on the fund as a first priority lien over the money. out that Petitioners have not responded to that argument. Nowhere in their reply brief did they explain why their theory would allow them to defeat the rights of a third-party defendant in this case, Mr. McCutchen's lawyers, who have their own separate right to the lien. And -- and none of their equitable lien cases, Your Honor, involve any kind of common fund whatsoever. So they say precisely nothing about the rules that would have applied in equity to an attorney's before it was distributed to any of the parties. JUSTICE GINSBURG: I thought you were discussing the common fund would be the allocation between McCutchen and the plan. But now, you seem to be first. MR. WESSLER: The common fund, Your Honor, applied either to deduct -- either as -- as a deduction off the -- Your Honor, may I -- may I finish answering attempt to -- to take their proportion out of the fund talking only about the attorney's right to come in the question? Official CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Sure. MR. WESSLER: As a deduction out of the REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF NEAL KUMAR KATYAL ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER Thank you, Your Honor. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel. Mr. Katyal, you have minutes remaining. entire fund for the attorney's lien or it can be applied to reduce proportionately each of the claimant's claims to that fund. And in this case, it should be applied to reduce a Petitioner's claim on the fund, irrespective of McCutchen's own claim. points. law point in the same direction. Justice Scalia is absolutely right, that they have zero cases that say, if there's a preexisting agreement that settles the common fund doctrine, that that makes it not enforceable. say that when the plan -- the plan is not unjustly enriched, to get the money that they are entitled to get MR. KATYAL: Thank you. I'd like to begin where -- where Mr. Wessler And Justice Ginsburg's absolutely right to left off, with the common fund, and make three quick The first is that both equity law and ERISA under the contract. Official The second point I would make is that the JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Put on the back of MR. KATYAL: I agree. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- I may or may not party, like a lawyer, who's done the effort to recover that fund -- more along Justice Breyer's question, which is not only in -- in all equity, lawyers are entitled, whether by contract or by unjust enrichment principles, to a -- to a percentage of their expenses in recovering something. Solicitor General says, well, this is now -- someone else, meaning -- agree that, in terms of your split with the participant, the contract might control. But I still am having trouble with understanding how you can bind a third precisely what cases like State Farm and the Arkansas case from , the Maryland case from , address, which is that situation. And the reason is that third-party case. Mr. McCutchen double-promising the same money to two entities, US Air and to his lawyers. And so it's essentially a dispute, really, among two parties, not MR. KATYAL: Justice Sotomayor, that's essentially here -- it's a mistake to see this as a This is really a situation created by Official Sure, the Court has an equity power when to remedy unjust enrichment. That is an inherent power of three. Now, the Solicitor General says, well, this is rooted in -- in equitable doctrine. There is no case that they have that says that there's some equitable doctrine that trumps the preexisting agreement. And, indeed, the case that they cite, the Greenough case, is one that essentially relies on unjust enrichment principles. the Court. We're not disagreeing with that. What we are saying is that, when you have an agreement in advance, that means, per se, there is no unjust enrichment, that they are, to use this Court's language JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Counsel, I'm assuming, because ERISA's in place now, that the many State laws that prohibit this kind of agreement, where insurance plans are seeking full reimbursement, despite an would be enforceable. this problem now is Congress, if they -- MR. KATYAL: That is precisely -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: The only one who can fix MR. KATYAL: That is correct. in Sereboff, a defense that it is beside the point. attorney's efforts, that those are void, that those Official JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- if they perceive it And here is a very vivid example: They are saying that it is inequitable to have the Federal Blue as a problem. MR. KATYAL: Congress, in , set it up this way. And I think that that's an important point, Justice Sotomayor. For years, this Court has never embraced an idea that Federal common law allows rewriting of plan terms. It would be a very dangerous doctrine to do so. It'd be standardless. Cross/Blue Shield plan, which governs . million people, including perhaps members of this Court, which has the exact same provisions as the US Air plan, an abrogation of common fund and a percent enforceable. That may create any number of problems for the government, I imagine, when it tries to enforce that. to pay the lawyer. Suppose, in order to get the ,, you had, for example, to build a model car to demonstrate to the manufacturer what caused the injury, and it cost you , to do it. And they pay you ,. JUSTICE BREYER: Suppose the expense weren't reimbursement provision. And they are saying that that would not be Official MR. KATYAL: Justice Breyer, if the unjust. It is the agreement that controls. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel. The case is submitted. (Whereupon, at : a.m., the case in the You're saying that -- it wouldn't be unjust to say the , has to go to -- back to pay US Air? agreement settled that in advance, yes, it would not be Counsel. above-entitled matter was submitted.) OfficialOfficial :, : : : : : :,, :, Appeal : appealed :, APPEARAN... : : agreements appendix :, : : : arose : : : asked : : : : asking : : : : applied : : : : :, : :, asserting : :, : : assert : assets : applies :, assignment : A ability : :,,, : above-entitled : : abrogated : abrogates : : abrogation : :, : : : : : administrator's :, advance : : : : : advanced : : :, : : : : : : advancing : advised : affirmative : Air : : afterward : : : ago : : : : : : : : : : absence : absolute : absolutely : agree : : Airways :, : :, : : :, : :, : : : : : :, Air's : : :, agreed : : : apply : : : :, :, : :, : : : : :, : : allocation : appropriate : : AL : Alito :, : : : agreement : Assistant : assume : : : : : assuming : : assumption : :, Atlantic : Atlantic's : accident : : : accommodation accompany : accompanying : accounted : accurate : acknowledge :, acquired : acted : action : :, :,, : :,, : :, : : actions : actual : : add : : address : adds : administration :, ADMINISTR... : : : :, approximately : : : : : :, : : attempt : attention : attorney :, arbitrary : argue :, argued : :, :, allow : : : :, :, allowed : :,,, :,,,, allowing : : :, allows : :,,, :,,,, : : : : : alter : arguing : : :, Amara : argument : : :, :,,, : :, : amicus : : : : : :, : attorney's : :,, :, :, :, : : : : :, : : : : : : August : :,,,, :, : : : :, : :, : :,,, : : :,,, : : :,,, answering : arguments : : : :, : :, : : : :,, : : analogous : analogy : answer : : : arises : arising : Arkansas : attorneys : : :, : : amount : : : : : : : : : : : authorized :, authority : :, : : available : apologize : answers : anti-Amara : : : : : : avoid : : avoids : awarded :, benefits : : a.m : : :, : benefit : : A : B back : : :, : : : : : :, : : : : back-end : bad : bad-faith : balance : : ball : Barnes : barred : bars : : based : : : :, : :,, : :, :, : : : : bear : began : behalf :, :,, : : : believe : : : : : bench : : : beneficiaries : beneficiary : : : : : best :, :, better : big : bind :, : : bit : :, Blue : : body : bollox : bondholder bondholders : : bottom : bound :, : : box : boxes : breach : Breyer :, :,,, :, : : : :, : : : Breyer's : brief : : : : :, : : : : : :, : briefs : bright : bring : bringing : : broad : brought : : build : burdens : Official buy : CC : : call :called :calls :candid :cap :CAPACITY :capricious :car :case : : :, : :,,: :,: :,: :: :: :,:, : : :: :: :: ::,,,: :,:, : :,,:,, : : :: :: : : :,,:,, :, cases :: :: :,:, : :,,,:,,,,,: :: :: :: :categorization: :caused : : : : : causes : century : : : certain : certainly : : : change :, : : : : changed :, : : chapter : characterize : characterized : : Chief :, :, : : :, :, : : : : :, :, :, : :, : : :,claimants : claimant's : : claims :,,:, : : :,:, : : : : :,: : classic : clause :,: : : :,clear : : : : : : : : : : clearly : Clinton : collect : : come : Cigna :, : : : :,:,:, : circuit : : comes : : : : : : citation : cite :, : comfortable : : cited : : : :, : cites : : claim : : : : : : :, :,, :,,, :, : : : : :, :,,, :,,,, : : commencement commodity : common : :, : : : : :, :,, :, : :, : :, : : : :,, : :, : Official Cross : Cross/Blue : culpable : curiae : : : DD :dangerous :days : : : :deal :dealing :debt : : :decide : : : :: :decided ::decision :: ::decisions :: :,decree :decrees :deduct :deducting :deduction ::defeat :: ::,defendant ::, : defendant's:defense :defenses ::, :, :,,,:defers :defines :demonstrate: denies : Department : derived : describe : describes : description : : : : :,despite : details : : developed : devoted : difference : :, : : :,: differences : : different : :,,: : :, :, : : : : :,direction : directly : : : disagreeingdischarge : : : disclaim : discovery : : discrepancy: : :,,discretion : discuss : discusses : discussing : disingenuous: :, : : :, communicate : communication :, communicatio... : company : complete : : : concede : : conceded : : : conceding : concept : : concepts : concern : concerned : : : : : :, contractual contradicted course : : : contrary : : : : : : : :, :,,, court :, : : : : : : : :, : :,, : :, :, : : :, : :, contracts : :,, : : : : :, : : :, : :, :, : :,,,, :, : :,, : : :,, :, : :,, : :, :, : : :, :,,, :, :, :, : : : :, : : controls :, : :, : : : : Cooke : : :, : control : courts :, :, : : :, : concluded : concrete : conditions : copy : confers : core : corpus :, confusing : correct : : :, : : : : correctly : correlative confusion : Congress : confusingly : : : : considered : consistent : cost : : court's : : : : : : : : : costs : :, : : contacted : contain : contained : Couch :, contains : contention : context : : : : : counsel : : : : : : : : : : :, contingent : contract : : : : : count : cover : : co-extensive : create : created :, : creates : critical : Official displacing : drew : dispute : : : distinct : : : distinction : : :, : : : : : distributed : district : : : : : :, : :,, : divest : : divided : : : Dobbs : doctrine :, : : : : : : :, : : :, :, : : : :,,, :, : : :, : doctrines : :,,, document : : :, :, doing : : doors : double : double-promi... double-promi... : : doubted : drafted : driver : drop : D.C :,, : EE : : :, earlier :effect : : effectiveness:effort :efforts :either :: ::,element :else's :embrace :embraced :employee :: :enforce : : : :,: :,,: : : :, : :enforceable: :: :: : enforced : : : enforcement enriched : : : enrichment : : : : :, : : : : : : : :, : enter : : entered : entire : : entirely : entities : entitled : : : : excuse : : :, : :, : : :,,, executed : :,,, exercise : : :, exist : : expense : :,, :,,, : : : :, expenses : : :,: : : :,: : : : :,, : : : expert : explain : equity's : equivalent : ERISA :, explains : :, : :, : explicitly : : : : : : : : :,,, ERISA's : essentially : : : : : : :, : entitles : epitomized : equally : equitable : :,,, : :,, :,,,, : : : : : :, :, : ESQ :,, :,,, : :,, : :, :,,, : :,,, :,, : : : : :, :, : :, :,, : :, equity :, : :, : :,, :,, :, : exact : : :,, : : :,,, :, : :,,, : : : :, :, : : ET : evaluate : evaluated : : : establish : established : : : : : :,exceptionsexactly : : example : event : :,, evaluation : : express : :, : : :,: : : expressed : :,extent : : : : : : extra :,: Ffact : : : :: :facts : : factual :failure :fair :, : :,,,fairer :far :Farm : : :fault :favors : Federal : : :, fee : fees : : : fiduciaries : FIDUCIARY : : figure : : filed : : : : finally : find : : finding : : finds :, fine : finish : first :, : : : : : : : :, : fit : fix : follow :, :, follows :, : footnote : : : : : foreclose : forgiven : forgot :, form :, : : forth : forward : found :, : : : :, : : : four :, Official framed : free :, freestanding : Ginsburg :, grown : generally : : : grounds : : :, :, guess : : : : : : : : : H:, : : free-standing :,,, frequently : friend : friends : friend's : : Ginsburg's : : give : : : : : : : : inapplicable : : incentive : : include : includes : including : income :,incorporates: increasing : independent : indistinguisha... : individual : inequitableinformation : : inherent : inherit : injunction : : injured : injury : : inquiry : :,insert : instance : insufficient : :,insurance : : : :, : : :: :,:insured :,: :,:, : :, : :,,,:, : insured's :insurer : hallmarks :hand :happen :happened :: :happens ::harsh :hear : : held : : help :hey : : highest :highly :hired :holding :Honor :: ::, : : :: :,: ::, : : :,:, : : :: :,: :Iidea : : identifies ::ignorant :imagine :implied :: ::import :important :full : fund : :, glass : gives : : : : going : : : : : go : : : : : :, : :, : :,,, : :, : : :,,, goes : : :,,, : : : :,, :, : : : :,, : :, : :, good : :,,, : :,, govern : : : :, : : :, : : : : :, :,,, : :, : : funds : further : :,,, futility : future : governed : :,, : : governing : government GG :gained :game :general :: :: ::, : : :: governs : : : great :, : : : Great-West : Greenough : : Official : : : : : : : :, :, : insurers : : interchangeably : : interest : interpretation : :, : interpreted : interprets : invoke : invokes : invoking : involve : : : : involved : involving : irrespective : : : issue : : : :, : : : :,,, : : :, : It'd : J JAMES : job : Joe : : Joint : : : JOSEPH : : : judge :, : :, judges : judgment : July : June : : Justice : : :,, :, : :, :, : :, :, :, : :,,, : :, :,,, :,, :, :, :, : :,,,, :,, :,,,, : :, : :, : :, :,, :,,, : :, : :, :, : : :, : : : : :,,,, :, : :, :, :,, :,, : :, : : :, : : :, : :, : :, : :, : :,, : : :, : : : :,,, :,,, :, : :, :, know :, : : : : :, : : : : Kagan :K:,, : : :: :: ::,Kagan's ::knowing : knows : KUMAR : :, : : L:, :, :, : :,,: :,: ::labeled :Labor :land :,language :Katyal : : : :,,, : :, : :, :, : :, : : : : :, : :, : :, :,,, : :, : : : :, Laughter :law :,,:, : :, : : : : : : : :, : :, :, : : :,,: ::, : : :,:,,:, : : ::, : late :lately :Katyal's : Kennedy : : : : :, : :, : :, key : kind : : : : : : : : : kinds :, : : laws :lawsuit :,lawyer :,:,,: :,:, : :lawyers ::, : :,layman :leading :leaves :left :, : : legal : : : :,,: :,,: :,:, : letter : : let's : : liability : lien :, : :, :, : :,,: : : :,: : : :,:, : : : :, : : :,:, : lienholder : liens : : : : limit : : limitation : limited : : limits : : : line : : : : : lines : lion's : listening : litigated : litigation : : : : little : : : lodged : : long :, Official : long-established McCUTCHEN : : : :, : : : : look : : : : : : : : : :,, : :, McKee : McCutchen's : : : : : : : : :, : : : : : monies : months : : :,, mean : : :, : : : : mortgage : : : meaning : morning : : OO : : obligated ::obligations: :obtain ::,P P :page : : :, : : :: :: :pages : : : :paid :,:, : : :: ::Palmer :: :,: Palmer's :Palmore :: :,: :,: :,: :,:,,,: :,:, : : :,parcel : : :part : : :,participant: ::participants:participate :particular :: :: :particularly:parties :: :,: :,:, : : : looked : looking :, : : looks : Lord : loss : : :,, losses : :,, lot : : : : lots :, love : M magic : magnifying : main : maintain : make-whole :, making : : : : manufacturer : Mars : Maryland : : matter : : : : : : : : : matters : MATTHEW : : : obtained :obvious :obviously :occurred :,: : motion : motto : N N :, : name : : office :nature : okay :October :offer ::: NEAL : : : ::: : : once : : : :nearly : necessarily : open :,opening :need : :, opinion :: : : : :opponent :negative : negotiated : : :neither : : opportunity: :: : net : never : : : : opposed :opposition :: :new :,, oral : :,, :, normal : : normally : notice : : : notion : notwithstandi... : : ::order ::, : outset :,overcome :::override :November : nowadays : number : :overriding:: : meaningful :, : means : : : : : : measure : : medical : : : : : : members : mentioned : mere : : merged : merits : Mertens : Mid :, : mid-th : million : minute : : : minutes : mistake : mixing : model : modern : modify :, money : : : : :, : Official : parts : party : : phrase : place : : : pocket : : point :, : :, plaintiff : plaintiffs : : : plaintiff's : :,, : : : : : principal : principle : : : : : :, principles : :, : : : provisions : : public : pure : : :,, purely : : :, : : : : : purposes : pursuant : pursue :, : : pursued : pursuing : put : : :, : putting : Qqualifies :question :,: :: : :, : : :: :: ::queue :, quick :quite : : : :: ::quote : : : :,: :, quoting : : :RR : : : :raise : : raised ::reach :pay : :, :, : : : :, : :, : payment : pays : PDF : people : : perceive : percent : : : : : percentage perfectly : : : performance :,, permits : person : : : personal : : persuasive : petition : Petitioner : : :, : : : :, : : : : Petitioners : : : : Petitioner's : : Pettus : : :, : : : : : : : :,, :, : : : : : : : : : : : : problems : : : problem : policy : : : procedurally : : points : policies : prior : : priority : : : : : : plan :, : : : : :, :, :,,, :, :, :,, :,,,,, :, : :,,, :,,, : :, : :, :, : position :, : : : : :, :,,,, proceeding : :, : : :, proceeds : :,,, produce : : : : : producing : : :, : :, : power :, : : :, : :,, :,, : :, : :,, :,,, precisely : :,,, :,,, :,,,, :,,,,, : :, :, : :, : : precluding : proved : provide : preexisting : : : : plans : : prejudice : provided : plan's : : :, :, : :,, :,, :,, : : : : : : : powers :, prohibit : prohibition : : : proportionately promised : promise : proportion : : : : present : presented : : pretty : : : :, provides : : : plan-based : please : : prevails : previously : : : provision : : : Official : : reached : : read : : : : realize : realized : :, really : : : :, reason : : : : reasonable :, : reasoning : reasons : REBUTTAL : : receive : received : receiving : recognize : : recover : reformation : : :, :,, : refuting : regard : regardless : reimburse : reply : remember : : request : requests : reserve : respect : : : : : : respond : responded : Respondent reimbursement : : : :, : :, : :,,, : : : :, :, : :,, :, : Respondents : : : : : :, : : : response : : : : : : : : restatement : : Reimburseme... restitution : : : : :, : : :, : rejected : reject : : recovered : relates : :, : :, : relevant : : : result :, : : results : reverse : review : recovering : : : recovery : : : : : :,, red : reduce : :, reference : referred : reflect : reflected : reflection : :,, reform : relief : : reviewed : : :, : : :,, :, :, : right : : rewrite : rewriting : : relies : rely : relying : : remaining : remand : : remands : remedial : remedies : : remedy : : : : :, : : : : : : : : : : : :, : :, :, rights : : : : :, : : :, se : : : :,, : :, : : : : : : : :, : : :, : :, ROBERTS : :, : :, : : : : :, :, :, : rooted : roots :, rule : : :,, :,, :, :,, : : :, : : :, rules : : Ryan : SS : : saw :saying :: :: :: :,: :,:says : :, : :: ::, : :,,: ::,,: :: : : :,,, : : : : : : :,,,,, : : : :, Scalia :, :, : : :,, : :, : :, : :, : :,, :,,, : :, : : : : :, : scenario : scope : seal :, second :, : : secret : Secretary :, :,,,:,,:,, section :,: : : :,: secured : security : see : : : : : : : seeing : seek :,: : : seeking : Official :, : : : : :, : takes : : talk : : : : specific :, :, specify : spend : split : stake : stand : : standardless : started : starts : State : : subtract : sue :,, sued : suffered : suggest : suggesting :, suit : : :, : summary : : : : : : : :, : :,,, : : :, statement : States :,, : :, : : :, : talked : talking :, : : : : : talks : tell : : : : :,, : : :, : :, ten : term : : : : terms : :, : : : : : : : text : : : : seeks : : : : self-evident : sense : sent : separate : :, : : September : Sereboff : : signed :, silo : simple : simply : : : : : : : single : : situation : :, situations : : : six : : :, :, : :, :,, : : : Smith : : : : : Solicitor : :, : :,,, :,, : :, : : : : : : : somebody : Sereboffs : : Sereboff's : seriously : serve : set : : : : : : sets : settled :, : settlement : : : settles : : seven : share : : sorts : Sotomayor : : :,, : :, :, : :, : : :, : : :, : : :, : :, :, sought : : : : :, : sound : : : Shield : shoes : : show : side : : SPD : : : :, sounds : : : source : : : : statute : : superior : stay : someone's : strikes : sorry : : strong : sort : : stronger : suppose : : support : : : : : :, : struck : structure : stuck : subject : : subjugation : submitted : : :, subrogation : : : : : : : :, :,, :,,, : :, :,, : :, :, :,,, :,, :, : :,, supposed : Thank : : : :, :,, : : : : : Supreme :, theory : : : : surcharge : sure : : : : : : : : : Svea : : : TT :,take : : :,,: ::taken :: They'd : thing : things : : : :, : : : think : : :, : :, : : : : : : :,: :,:,,,,:, : : : :, : Official :, : : : : :, :, : : :, : true : : : trump : : trumps : trust :, : understand : : : : understanding : :, : :, : : :,, :, vivid : void : :, : Vose : :, : understood : : : : :, West : : we'll : : we're : :, : : :, : : :, : : : : : :,: : we've : : : : : whatsoever wheat : : :,willing : win : windfall : witnesses : word : : words : : work : : : : : : worth : : wouldn't : : : : : writing : written : wrongdoer : Wwaive :waived :,:walks :want : : : ::, : :, : wanted :Washington:,,,wasn't :: :way : : : :: :,: :: :ways :week :well-settled:went :weren't ::Wessler :: : : :,: :: :, : :,:, : : :: :, : :,,X: :,:,,,, x :,:, : wrote : :,W.H : : thinking : third : : : : : : third-party :,, : : : thought : : : three : : : three-party : time : : : : :, : times : : today : told : : : : tortfeasor : : :, : tough : traditional : transfer : transforms : treated : : treatise : :, : :, treatises : tries : trigger : trouble : : :, unfair :, :,,, : : trustee :, unfairness : :, : : unfortunately : try : : trying : : United :,, Tuesday : : : : turn : : two : : : : : :, : : : :, :, :, : : :, unjust : : : :, : : : : : : : :, : :, unjustly : two-and-a-half : two-party : : : : types : typical : typically : : : : : U umbrella : unambiguous unanimously : : unavailable : underlying : :, : unjustment : unsettling : unusual : : : unworkable : use : : : : usually : :, V v : : : : valid : valuation : various :, vicarious : : vice-versa : victim : view : tort : : type : : Y year : : years : : : : Z zero : $ $, : :, $, : $, :, $, : $, : : : : : : : : : : : : , :, :, : :, : - : : : : : : th :, : s : : : : : : : : : : : : : : :, : : : : : Official : th : A : A : : : : : : : : . : . : : . : : : : : : , :, :, : (a)()(b) : (a)() : : : : : : : : : : : , : , : 