Official IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES v. The above-entitled matter came on for oral Washington, D.C. Wednesday, April , - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x LINDA METRISH, WARDEN, : : No. - Petitioner : BURT LANCASTER : - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x argument before the Supreme Court of the United States at : a.m. APPEARANCES: KENNETH M. MOGILL, ESQ., Lake Orion, Michigan; on behalf JOHN J. BURSCH, ESQ., Michigan Solicitor General, Lansing, Michigan; on behalf of Petitioner. of Respondent. Official C O N T E N T S ORAL ARGUMENT OF JOHN J. BURSCH, ESQ. PAGE On behalf of the Petitioner ORAL ARGUMENT OF KENNETH M. MOGILL, ESQ. On behalf of the Respondent REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF JOHN J. BURSCH, ESQ. On behalf of the Petitioner Official P R O C E E D I N G S (: a.m.) and may it please the Court: This is a Sixth Circuit habeas appeal MR. BURSCH: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice, Mr. Bursch? ORAL ARGUMENT OF JOHN J. BURSCH ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument first this morning in Case -, Metrish v. Lancaster. involving AEDPA deference. Harrington v. Richter holds that a Federal court may only overturn a State court conviction that is such an erroneous misapplication of this Court's clearly established precedent as to be is, an extreme malfunction. that the Michigan Supreme Court's Carpenter decision was neither indefensible, nor unexpected, when it simply well-established Michigan interpretive principles. Accordingly, the Michigan Court of Appeals application of Carpenter was not error, and the Sixth Circuit should be reversed. beyond any possibility of fair-minded disagreement, that applied plain statutory language in accord with Here, a fair-minded jurist could conclude I'd like to begin with the statutory text. Official And that silence is crucial here because, in In , the Michigan legislature passed a comprehensive mental capacity affirmative defense statute. In it, the defenses are defined for mental illness and mental retardation, but it says nothing about diminished capacity. Michigan, for over years, it has been a code jurisdiction, which means that, if the statutes address a particular area of criminal law, only that statute applies, and the Michigan courts are not allowed to either add to or subtract from that statutory text. So only the Michigan legislature had the power to add a diminished capacity defense. JUSTICE GINSBURG: Well, what --JUSTICE SCALIA: years -- years? Did you say that? Michigan was a territory -- I'm -- before it was a State, in , it passed a law that abolished common law criminal principles when there was a statute that addressed the -- the subject matter. JUSTICE GINSBURG: There was some law in effect in Michigan on this subject from the year till the year . There was no statute, and there was no ancient common law. But what was it? If I asked you MR. BURSCH: Yes. Actually, even before Official the question, what was the law in Michigan on diminished capacity from to , what would you respond? MR. BURSCH: It changed one time. In , So in , -- you know, -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: How -- how was the there was a Michigan Court of Appeals decision that recognized, as a matter of common law, the diminished capacity defense, but that was set aside by the statute, which established all the comprehensive diminished capacity defenses available and left out diminished capacity. Michigan Court of Appeals construing the defense? Did it say -- it didn't say anything about the statute. of Appeals did, beginning in , in the Mangiapane case, was to ask, is diminished capacity part of the statutory code? And it never held, expressly, that it was. What it did in Mangiapane and in subsequent cases, it assumed that the defense existed, but it never held language of the statute. not pointed to a single Michigan decision where a conviction or an exoneration on acquittal or even a finding of ineffective assistance was ever based on the MR. BURSCH: Well, what the Michigan Court that. And that dicta could not override the plain And, in fact, counsel on the other side has diminished capacity defense. Official JUSTICE KENNEDY: Was the case that you There were no other cases that relied on it MR. BURSCH: The case was a common law vacuum, Justice Kennedy, where the Michigan legislature had not yet spoken about mental incapacity defenses, and mentioned based on a statute, or was it based on, allegedly, a vacuum that the statutory structure allowed the court to fill? I mean, is that the way the case came about? And was the case followed by other courts? Or was it just an isolated precedent? so it stood alone, as the court was able to do, as a common law decision. before the ' statute was enacted. And, after that ' decision as the source of the doctrine. They assumed that, if it existed, it must be somewhere within the statute. Michigan court to look at the question explicitly says, well, it's not in the statute, diminished capacity isn't there, we've got mental retardation, we've got mental illness, no diminished capacity. As the Michigan judiciary, we lack the power to add the diminished And then, in Carpenter, in , the Michigan Supreme Court, when, finally, the very first point, the Michigan appellate courts did not look to the capacity defense. Official JUSTICE KAGAN: Well -- JUSTICE ALITO: Well, we don't -- JUSTICE KAGAN: Please. JUSTICE ALITO: Well, we don't really have to reach this issue in this case, according to your submission, but what would happen if a State -- an intermediate State appellate court said the law is such-and-such and then a -- a person is tried in the interim -- is tried and, subsequently, the State supreme court says that intermediate State court decision was incorrect, that never was the law of this State; the law was exactly the opposite? Rogers, and -- and, in Rogers, you had a nearly -year common law history of the year and a day rule in the Tennessee Supreme Court, that the defense was available to use that term for nearly years, and, yet, it Supreme Court to abolish the rule because it was neither indefensible nor unexpected. your hypothetical, for several reasons. First, as I mentioned, it's a habeas case, and so we've got the MR. BURSCH: I think you would apply the same principles to that hypothetical as you did in didn't violate due process in Rogers for the Tennessee Now, this case is much easier than Rogers or Official And the last thing is that, in the Rogers layer of AEDPA deference that wasn't there. Second, we're not talking about the case, even the Tennessee Supreme Court acknowledged there was a change. And, here, the Michigan Supreme Court said there was no change because the statute said evolution of the common law, like we were in Rogers. We're talking about a statute, and the statute meant what it said in ', just like it did in ', just like it does today. what it said in , and that meant no diminished capacity. JUSTICE ALITO: Well, what I'm wondering is how we even get beyond the statement, the holding by a State. Don't we have to accept that as the -- as the law of the State? Isn't that what our decision in Fiore says? second-guess that? think about it in -- in two pieces. And the first piece is can you second-guess the Michigan Supreme Court's interpretation of the statute? And I think the answer State supreme court regarding the -- the law of the If the State supreme court says, this is the law, and it's always been the law, then how can we MR. BURSCH: Well, Justice Alito, I would Official there, everybody has to agree, is no. The State's interpretation of its own statute binds this Court, binds all Federal courts, just like the South Carolina Supreme Court decision in -- in Bouie did. With respect to the Michigan Supreme Court's analysis of the retroactive effect, I agree that Fiore stands for that very proposition, and I think Indiana makes that case very forcefully in the multi-State amici brief. You don't have to reach that question here, however, because given the AEDPA standard and the fact that the Michigan Supreme Court decision was so clearly not a misapplication of Rogers and Bouie, it makes this a relatively easy case. to follow the Fiore holding. General, that the -- the fact that this is statutory makes your position easier. MR. BURSCH: Yes. JUSTICE KAGAN: And I wonder if that's true. I mean, you could see an -- an argument the exact other way, which suggests that we all understand that common law changes and evolves over time, but that it's rare for a court to reverse a decision on what a statute But I think you'd be fully within your right JUSTICE KAGAN: You -- you suggested, MR. BURSCH: Justice Kagan, I think this is Official means and that that's not foreseeable in the same way. So -- now, especially if it were a single court, saying the statute means A today, and then, tomorrow, it comes back, and it says, no, it means B, whether that isn't actually -- whether that wouldn't cut against your position. the easiest case because it's not just statutory interpretation; it's statutory interpretation of a statute that is just plain on its face. If you had an ambiguous statute, yes, then maybe there would be some more uncertainty. enumerates several defenses, does not include diminished enumerated, it's not there, and the courts can't add it. That does make this easier. in Rogers, for example, to acknowledge that, one, Tennessee law had changed right out from underneath the defendant; and, yet, even given that change, this Court was comfortable that it was not indefensible or unexpected. I think when --JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: What about the Michigan But where you've got a statute that capacity, and, under Michigan law, if it's not I think it was probably a bigger challenge Official The closest it comes is this Mangiapane MR. BURSCH: Well, it -- it didn't recognize it as a defense, in the sense that it analyzed the statute and said, yes, the defense is available. It, in many instances, assumed that it might exist, and, if it Court of Appeals? There's only one court of appeals, right? MR. BURSCH: Correct, Justice Ginsburg. JUSTICE GINSBURG: And so that court, several times, recognized diminished capacity as a defense. did, then this is the result. decision in , and the court says, very specifically, there that the definition of mental illness in the says, at page of the Northwest Second Report, the court was not prepared to say they are identical. JUSTICE GINSBURG: The -- MR. BURSCH: So --JUSTICE GINSBURG: Your colleague said that there were appellate decisions -- I take it that's the court of appeals decisions -- recognizing diminished capacity as a defense. statute is similar to diminished capacity, but the court MR. BURSCH: Recognizing it as a possible defense. Again, in every single one of those cases, all Official AEDPA deference lens, which is very high, was the Carpenter decision defensible and expected? And we of which would be contrary to the statutory language, incidentally, not a single one of them did a conviction or an acquittal or a finding of ineffective assistance ever turn on that point. And so, in that sense, it's also, again, very much like Rogers, where this Court said that the year and a day rule had never been used for an acquittal or a conviction in any Tennessee case. And so the question is, again, through the would submit that any time that a State supreme court applies the plain language of the statute in accord with established principles of interpretation in that State, it could almost never be indefensible or unexpected. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: That seems a little strange, for the following reason -- just as I think this case presents an example, you're claiming it's clear because the supreme court said it was clear, but the court of appeals in -- in Mangiapane, whether or not it assumed it or not, did an analysis that clearly says that it believes that the definition of legal insanity includes diminished capacity. because it could have assumed it and then just said, but no notice was given, so the defense fails here. It took Its holding didn't need that analysis, Official The court of -- the State supreme court has now said, no, it's not. But I don't know that that makes the statute any less ambiguous, merely because a court announces that it thinks it's not. the time to analyze just this question and came to a contrary conclusion. Its contrary conclusion was that "legal insanity" was a broad enough term under Michigan law to encompass this defense. MR. BURSCH: Well, two responses to that, Justice Sotomayor. First, I want to be, again, very careful about what Mangiapane actually held. It did look at the statutory language and, at page , said, "We are not prepared to say they are identical," meaning the definition of mental illness and the concept of the defendant had not given the prosecutor notice of any defense, based on mental capacity in the trial court, and so the court said, well -- you know, assuming that that today -- give statutory notice. JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, I -- MR. BURSCH: -- because you would have to the -- the defense exists, we are not prepared to decide diminished capacity. There, the question was procedural because The second -- Official JUSTICE SCALIA: I -- I would have thought MR. BURSCH: Justice Scalia, that was my second point. JUSTICE SCALIA: Ah, okay. (Laughter.) JUSTICE SCALIA: It should have been your your -- you can get to your second one, but I would have thought your first response to -- to the question would have been to deny that you say it's clear because the supreme court of Michigan has said so. I thought your argument is it's clear because it's clear. first point. The premise is simply wrong. You're saying it was clear because the statute's clear. MR. BURSCH: It was clear. And if any Michigan court had had the opportunity to actually decide it on the merits in light of this -year history of Michigan being a criminal code State, it was clear. And so this is the point when a State court decision is most defensible and most expected, applying State principles. a statute identical or -- or close to the Michigan statute that have interpreted the statute to say it does the plain language of a clear statute in accord with JUSTICE KENNEDY: Are there any States with include diminished capacity? MR. BURSCH: I'm not aware of any other Official MR. BURSCH: Justice Kennedy, I'm not aware of -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: This statute is -- fairly well tracks the common law tradition, which indicates that diminished capacity is not a defense. MR. BURSCH: Right. JUSTICE KENNEDY: I'm just curious to know if any State courts have reached an opposite conclusion under a statute like this. States that have the same statute and have addressed the question one way or the other. I do know that the language of the Michigan statute is fairly unique. If you look in the criminal law treatises, we're kind of in on the one hand, define mental illness and mental retardation, do not define or mention diminished capacity, and, yet, still have this guilty, but insane option, which is something that Michigan common law did So it's a little bit unique. have this -year criminal code history, which, if you're interested, you can read all about it in the In a category of only a very few States that -- you know, not have, but then that was added in the ' statute. I think it's also unique to Michigan that we re Lamphere case that we cite on page to of our Official reply brief. But it's when you put those things together that really make this such an easy case. JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, General, I guess I wonder whether it's relevant what the statute really says, as opposed to what courts said it says. I mean, sometimes, judges make errors, and our law is dotted with places where courts have made errors and said that things mean what they don't mean or don't mean what they do mean, and -- you know, we expect people to follow what the court says is the law, even if there's really a better reading out there. And, also, we think that people should rely on what the court says is the law, even though there's really a better reading out there. And so -- you know, say -- you know, what were these crazy Michigan courts doing? though people had a right to rely on that. MR. BURSCH: Well, the expectation, certainly, is that people would rely on Michigan statutory law. And I concede that this would be a more difficult case if the Michigan Supreme Court in, say, had come out in a published opinion and said the exact opposite of what it said in . Obviously, what does it matter if we come out and said -- and If that's what they were doing, it seems as that's not what happened here. Official But -- but ultimately -- you know, the And -- and, clearly, he had to know that. And, if he had looked at the statute, he would have seen that diminished capacity was not mentioned there. So to the extent that he -- he wanted to rely on that question that would have been on -- on Mr. Lancaster's mind back in when he shot and killed Toni King was, does Michigan law prohibit me -- will it punish me if I -- I kill someone? defense, he wouldn't have found it in Michigan's codified law. Now, I know the argument on the other side is, well, we have these other cases which -- you know, mention the doctrine, kind of assume without deciding that -- that it's out there. And he wants to assume that he has all the knowledge of that, but not the knowledge of the background principle that Michigan won't add affirmative defenses to a statute through a to him -- and -- and we submit that you probably shouldn't, then you've got to impute all the knowledge of Michigan law, the plain language of the statute and the interpretive principles that should guide what that And, if you're going to impute any knowledge judicial action. statute means. Official He knew that killing someone was wrong, unquestionably, he was on fair notice of that. And --and just like in Rogers, this diminished capacity defense after was never relied on by any Michigan court to either hold someone guilty or to acquit them or to find that there was ineffective assistance. It just was not the kind of well-established principle that could possibly make the Carpenter decision either indefensible or unexpected. And then, when you layer that on top with AEDPA deference -- you know, really, this is about as simple as it gets. There is no decision of -- of this Court, not Rogers, not Bouie, not Fiore, not Bunkley, this Michigan Court of Appeals opinion. I'll reserve the balance of my time. me -- and may it please the Court: CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel. Mr. Mogill. any Court decision that is contrary to or misapplied in ORAL ARGUMENT OF KENNETH M. MOGILL ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT MR. MOGILL: Mr. Chief Justice -- excuse Unless the Court has any further questions, At the time of his offense in this matter, Official Respondent had a well-established, uncontested right to present evidence of diminished capacity in order to negate the elements of premeditation and deliberation in the first-degree murder charge against him, and he did assert that defense at his first trial. That trial was rendered unfair by the prosecutor's Batson error. Respondent was not allowed to present the same defense at his retrial, however, because, years after his offense, the Michigan Supreme Court unexpectedly changed the rules in midstream, holding in Carpenter that a statute that had been enacted years before and that did not use the words "diminished capacity" did not express an intent to abolish any defense of diminished capacity, but the Supreme Court all the more so, because, if the Michigan courts had ruled correctly on the Batson issue, retrial would have occurred before , and there's no question, but that Respondent would have been able to raise the diminished capacity as -- raise it. There's a lot of question about whether it would have been successful because, if it had gone up to the Michigan Supreme Court -- the statute was in effect JUSTICE SCALIA: He would have been able to held that it had been abolished. That was fundamentally unfair to Respondent, MR. MOGILL: With all due respect -- I'm sorry. JUSTICE SCALIA: And your only -- your only defense would have been, oh, it's a great surprise. But I don't see how it's a surprise if the Michigan law has MR. MOGILL: That's correct. JUSTICE SCALIA: He could have raised it, but, if it went up to the Michigan Supreme Court, it would have had the same result as here. been, as -- as the Solicitor General of Michigan has described it, that -- that there's a clear tradition. If -- if the statute addresses the area, the courts will not -- will not supplement it by -- by common law opposing counsel, I -- the view -- our view of the law is -- is entirely different. Michigan recognizes the common law in its constitution. Michigan law has -- was firmly established that the diminished capacity defense existed. By -- firmly -- do you -- do you contest the -- the assertion Did he not know that? MR. MOGILL: With all due respect to additions. during his first trial? Official JUSTICE SCALIA: Why do you say it was by the solicitor general that there is no case Official sorry, Justice Scalia. JUSTICE SCALIA: -- lets the defendant off on the basis of diminished capacity? MR. MOGILL: The -- let somebody off? Well, which -- which acknowledged and held the defense of diminished capacity? MR. MOGILL: I disagree. JUSTICE SCALIA: Is that wrong? MR. MOGILL: Yes. JUSTICE SCALIA: What -- what case -- MR. MOGILL: Well, first of all -- I'm first of all, we're not talking about -- JUSTICE SCALIA: What case has a holding -- a holding that diminished capacity excuses the crime or MR. MOGILL: Mitigates. Justice Scalia, in Lynch itself in , Ms lynch was charged with first-degree murder for the starvation -- in relation to the starvation death of her infant. The trial judge declined to permit -- declined to permit her to offer psychiatric testimony to mitigate to second degree. that evidence -- mental health evidence of the kind she wanted to offer was admissible to establish diminished The court of appeals reversed, indicating mitigates the crime. Official capacity, that is, to negate the element of premeditation and deliberation. Once that case was decided, there is one The phrasing in the -- in the court's opinion is very significant and it's much more than direction only in Michigan law from until Carpenter, by surprise, in . Yes, the statute was passed in , and just years later, in , Mangiapane decided that diminished capacity comes within the definition of legal insanity. opposing counsel suggests. The court stated explicitly, "we find that the" -- "the defense known as diminished capacity is codified within the definition of legal insanity." accused who wanted to raise a diminished capacity partial defense to comply with the procedural requirements of the new statute. From that point forward, it was clear that diminished capacity -- and --and these are published court of appeals decisions, so they are binding precedent statewide in Michigan, unless or until reversed or modified by the State supreme court, the legislature, or a constitutional amendment. Once that happened, there is not a case, including in Carpenter itself, where the prosecution Once that happened, then that required an Official JUSTICE GINSBURG: I think the question that was asked was, at the bottom line, at the end of the day -- MR. MOGILL: Yes. JUSTICE GINSBURG: -- did anybody get objected to the admissibility of diminished capacity evidence. It was so well-established, it was beyond question. It was so well -- sentenced less? Did it affect the outcome? You gave a case where a defendant was allowed to raise diminished capacity, but was -- are there cases where the defense was successful on the merits? that's a very important question. The -- the closest I Griffin case, in , in an order which was a dispositive order and, therefore, was precedent, the Michigan Supreme Court disposed of an application for vacating and remanding a leave to appeal by remand --case for an ineffective assistance hearing because of defense counsel's failure, inter alia, to consider a diminished capacity defense. the supreme court had determined that diminished capacity was a valid defense. The second part -- MR. MOGILL: Justice Ginsburg, I think can come -- the first part of my answer is, in the That order could not have occurred unless Official JUSTICE SCALIA: Or -- is that correct? Wouldn't -- wouldn't the supreme court have done that if it -- if it thought that at least -- at least it was arguable? MR. MOGILL: I -- I respectfully submit that, under Strickland analysis, no. If it -- if it's not an established defense, if it's not something that would, arguably, come within the Strickland framework, there would not have been a remand. That would have been a -- a question of a lawyer trying to be creative, but it wouldn't implicate Strickland principles. JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, I'm -- I'm a little surprised at your answer, and Justice Scalia's question indicates the same. If the law was as well settled as me, certainly, counsel should raise it and is arguably deficient for not doing so. Whether or not he'll prevail at the end of the day is something quite different. MR. MOGILL: Well, Justice Kennedy, I believe that the basis for a remand in a case like this -- and this is not an unusual kind of a situation in practice, is where the law is clear, then you -- then the remand is to determine the factual basis for the you say it was in the appellate courts, then it seems to defendant's claim, were the facts such that a reasonably Official MR. MOGILL: What I have to establish is question. That is the standard under AEDPA, right? MR. MOGILL: Well -- I'm sorry. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You have to be --you have to be -- you have to be that right to prevail, CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You said your view of the law was -- you know, so well-established --MR. MOGILL: Yes. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: -- as to be beyond competent attorney should have been expected to investigate and -- and raise it. right? that the decision of the Michigan Court of Appeals here was objectively unreasonable. And, whether it's beyond unreasonable ruling for the reasons that it was without -- not only was it well-established -- and I want to weave into this the second part of what I'd like to answer of Justice Ginsburg's question. the question of reversals or not what the lay of the land was because, where you have a framework that allows a defense to be raised and prosecutors aren't objecting, the -- the application's going to be a factual matter question, I think we, certainly, have objectively I think it's very important in understanding for a jury to decide. Official So it's not going to be something that's JUSTICE ALITO: In Griffin -- you describe Griffin in your brief as follows: "The court vacated, reversed, and remanded the decision below based on," going to percolate up into appellate legal issues. It's going to be successful sometimes, it's not going to be successful sometimes, and there are no statistics on that. But it doesn't -- it won't present a legal issue, and that's in no small part why the question of, well, what about a reversal -- quote, "defendant's claim that trial counsel was ineffective for failing to explore defenses of diminished capacity and insanity." MR. MOGILL: Yes. JUSTICE ALITO: "And insanity." So it wasn't specifically -- wasn't limited to diminished capacity. MR. MOGILL: And that's why in my -- JUSTICE ALITO: It was insanity in general. MR. MOGILL: No, it was both. The -- the insanity defense is separate from diminished capacity, which is a partial defense. In fact, at Respondent's first trial, prior counsel had raised both. At retrial, I only wished to raise the diminished capacity defense. The law recognizes the difference between Official JUSTICE SCALIA: Mr. Mogill, as -- as I understand your burden here, it's -- it's not enough to show that Michigan law seemed to be what you -- what you say it was; but it has to have been --the two in Michigan. Had diminished capacity not been a recognized defense, the court's order, I respectfully submit, would have been worded just with respect to insanity. There would have been no legal basis for arguing -- or, excuse me, for including the -- the reference to diminished capacity. Justice Scalia, and I think that's what we have. We have, from -- statute. respectfully submit, is that nobody in Michigan until Carpenter -- and -- and I -- it -- that sounds like an MR. MOGILL: Yes. JUSTICE SCALIA: -- what you say it was. MR. MOGILL: Yes. JUSTICE SCALIA: And it -- there was an JUSTICE SCALIA: It's -- it's hard to believe that, given -- given the clear text of the avulsive change by the supreme court. MR. MOGILL: I agree with that, MR. MOGILL: The problem, I -- I extreme statement, but, again, the record is clear. Official That committee is comprised of judges, prosecutors, and defense attorneys. In , that committee promulgated a diminished capacity instruction. That's how well-established it is. Prosecutors weren't objecting. There is a State bar committee on criminal jury instructions whose responsibility it is to come up with standard jury instructions on areas of law that are agreed upon and -- and routinely enough raised in court to warrant a standard instruction. JUSTICE SCALIA: Now, if -- if a prosecutor raised that objection, knowing that the court of appeals would -- would reverse the exclusion, right -- I mean, it's clear what the court of appeals would have done, appeals reversed it and said the trial was infected with that error, could -- could the defendant be retried? MR. MOGILL: The -- what would happen -- JUSTICE SCALIA: Because he's -- he's convicted and the -- I'm sorry -- he's -- he's -- second instead of first, could he be tried on first? MR. MOGILL: Convicted -- convicted of right? MR. MOGILL: Yes. JUSTICE SCALIA: And, once the court of JUSTICE SCALIA: That's right. Official would be crazy to raise it as a prosecutor. MR. MOGILL: No. What I -- but I -- MR. MOGILL: No. But that's the question. JUSTICE SCALIA: Could he be retried? MR. MOGILL: On first, no. But -- JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, then -- then you Justice Scalia, the answer to your question is -- is encompassed by the statutory scheme which requires advanced notice. The -- a defendant can't offer diminished capacity evidence in the middle of trial. A defendant has to give days or whatever other time set by the judge notice -- or it had to at the time. that such evidence wasn't admissible, the prosecutor had plenty of time, prior to trial, to seek an in limine ruling from the trial court, to seek an interlocutory appeal from the Michigan Court of Appeals. interlocutory appeal on that? MR. MOGILL: Absolutely. JUSTICE SCALIA: Okay. MR. MOGILL: And -- and I will tell you the prosecutors in Michigan are aggressive in -- in seeking interlocutory appeals. We have -- again, it is so well-established, there is not a contrary decision, JUSTICE SCALIA: But he could get an -- an If the prosecutor, in any case, believed Official there? appellate court, they wouldn't let me raise it. And the the -- the holdings --zero, right? I mean, I -- JUSTICE BREYER: I take it the answer is MR. MOGILL: No. JUSTICE BREYER: -- I looked at your brief, JUSTICE BREYER: How many holdings are MR. MOGILL: There are many mentions with there is not a question raised in any opinion or any decision. and then I looked at their brief, and they say the answer is zero. holding is that -- the pure holding would be, if the trial court judge says no, you cannot raise it, okay? The defendant is convicted and appeals. appellate court says, you have a right to raise it. MR. MOGILL: And that's exactly Lynch, Justice Breyer. MR. MOGILL: Yes. JUSTICE BREYER: And then he says to the MR. MOGILL: Lynch is a holding. JUSTICE BREYER: All right. And the -- the JUSTICE BREYER: That is Lynch. And Lynch is what year? one. Official MR. MOGILL: . JUSTICE BREYER: In . Okay. So we have MR. MOGILL: And -- I'm sorry. JUSTICE BREYER: And -- and was there any MR. MOGILL: I -- I'm not aware --JUSTICE BREYER: No, but we -- we have got other case in -- this is years before. Was there any other case in which the same pattern of facts and they said the same thing as Lynch? Lynch on one side. Is there any case -- this is an intermediate appeals court -- is there any case in which the defendant says, I would like to raise it, the judge says no, convicted, appeal, and the intermediate court Justice Breyer, is there is no such case. And the reason -- MR. MOGILL: ' was the offense. JUSTICE BREYER: Carpenter. MR. MOGILL: No, was Carpenter -- JUSTICE BREYER: . All right. MR. MOGILL: The offense was '. JUSTICE BREYER: Okay. And so all this period from until or whatever --of appeals says, defendant, you are wrong? MR. MOGILL: The answer to your question, Official you discount Mangiapane. didn't -- JUSTICE BREYER: There is exactly one case on point which does favor you, and there are zero cases that favor them; is that right? MR. MOGILL: If you talk holding only and if MR. MOGILL: I'm -- the holding was he but there was no reason for the court -- JUSTICE BREYER: Okay. MR. MOGILL: -- to reach that question, JUSTICE BREYER: Well, Mangiapane was a -- a lot of words, but the holding was not notice; isn't that right? unless diminished capacity exists. art. for you, zero for them. Justice Breyer? JUSTICE BREYER: Yes. MR. MOGILL: One of the things -- one of the points this Court looked to in Rogers was how many times JUSTICE BREYER: So we've got one. That's -- I'm trying to find out what the state of the MR. MOGILL: Thank you. JUSTICE BREYER: The state of the art is one MR. MOGILL: If I can supplement that, the year-and-a-day rule had been "mentioned," and Official JUSTICE SCALIA: Was that -- how often was it mentioned in intermediate court opinions? MR. MOGILL: We have mentions in the that -- this is -- that's this Court's word -- in Tennessee decisions. And so one of the things we did, and that's the addendum in our red brief, is look at how many times there are mentions -- all of which are favorable, not one of which raises even a question, of diminished capacity in Michigan. And that -- Michigan Supreme Court and in the Michigan Court of Appeals between and , and we have over -- or about -- And then you have -- JUSTICE SCALIA: Yeah. MR. MOGILL: Yeah. JUSTICE SCALIA: Have we ever held that a State law has been determined to be X, simply because intermediate State courts have uniformly held it to be X? Never mind assumed it to be X, have held it to be X? JUSTICE SCALIA: Four mentions in the supreme court that say what? That are inconclusive -- MR. MOGILL: Well, Griffin is one of them. MR. MOGILL: I don't know of a particular case. Official But, to answer your question, So the fact that -- JUSTICE SCALIA: It doesn't mean it's right. MR. MOGILL: No, but in terms of it -- JUSTICE SCALIA: You have to show it's Justice Scalia, the law in Michigan is clear, as stated by the Michigan Supreme Court, that a published court of appeals decision is precedentially binding statewide unless and until reversed by the Supreme Court. the law of the -- forward. And I would like to supplement that, if I might. sorry. Go ahead. MR. MOGILL: When -- when Lynch was decided, it wasn't acting on something new. The -- the court of appeals opinion indicates that what we're doing is nothing novel because the diminished -- the right to present diminished capacity evidence to rebut an -- the elements of premeditation and deliberation, grows out of JUSTICE SCALIA: That it's the law. MR. MOGILL: I have to show that it is the law of the State, and it was the law of the State from right. MR. MOGILL: No, I have to show that it is CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Could you -- I'm a -year history in Michigan. Official MR. MOGILL: Yes. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: -- the statute that we are dealing with here, right? CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, but the Lynch -- the Lynch case was years before the Michigan legislature adopted -- MR. MOGILL: Yes. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: And that's where you are putting -- not all of your eggs, most of your eggs, right? is -- that's an egg, and I think I've got a pretty full basket. the -- that's the whole case. The whole -- the whole point is that the law made that moot because the law under Michigan did not specify diminished capacity, and it's a code State, so you only get what they specified. statement by brother counsel. The -- and that's why I quoted Article , Section . CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, but you'll at least -- well, maybe not. I mean, would -- would you I -- MR. MOGILL: I respectfully disagree with that MR. MOGILL: No, I'm -- that -- that CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, that's Official MR. MOGILL: I would if the facts of the Lynch. JUSTICE BREYER: There were no others, so, subsequent litigation supported that interpretation of the statute. To the contrary, every case -- Mangiapane, it wasn't -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I'm talking about acknowledge that the force of Lynch was arguably diminished by the fact that Michigan passed a statute that did not mention the diminished capacity defense years after it? now, I've reduced your one to nothing to like . to nothing because it favors you, Lynch, yes, as the Justice -- MR. MOGILL: No other holdings, but we have many, many mentions. We have on-the-ground consistent reliance by prosecutors, defense attorneys, and judges. negative because, if everybody accepts, after Mangiapane, that the defense exists, then trial courts are not going to be excluding it on the basis that the MR. MOGILL: Yes. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: You can't prove a Chief Justice just pointed out, and, now, you've already said there were no other cases. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: That's -- that's your whole point, isn't it? statute excludes it because --Official MR. MOGILL: Absolutely. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: That's the whole point you are making. MR. MOGILL: And which gets me to -- to JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Do you have any -- is Rogers, and -- and we turn to the questions of fundamental fairness. there any evidence of a trial court holding an exclusion? MR. MOGILL: There is nothing. And even -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Or even suggesting one? MR. MOGILL: It -- it is so extreme, Justice Sotomayor, that, even in Carpenter itself, the prosecution did not contest the admissibility of diminished capacity evidence as a trial court -- because -- everybody agrees with you, I think -- I agree with you on this anyway. I agree the bar puts it in the instructions, people tend to follow it. That's true. So it's not surprising that a lot of people tended to follow it. But, as far as court decisions are concerned, we have no -- what I'm trying to think of is instructions, and, if the bar puts it in the JUSTICE BREYER: All right. But that's Official a pre-statute. I give you a little credit on that. That's Lynch. Pre-statute -- and we have what I might sort of exaggeratedly refer to as the great mentioner. We've noticed the great mentioner is often wrong, and -- and, here, even though there are judicial mentioners, they get something. I don't know how much in the scale to -- to give them. MR. MOGILL: Well, with all due respect, the standard that this Court set in Rogers is whether the --the decision in Carpenter, in this case, would have been unforeseeable and indefensible by reference to the law as previously expressed so that it could be applied retroactively. JUSTICE BREYER: Can you think of a Federal case where -- I see what we have. I'm now adding up the something for Lynch, the something for the bar, which is a -- which is a something, and -- and then the fact that some courts have quite, not surprisingly, tended to follow it, and there were others that mentioned it favorably, but not the Michigan Supreme Court. MR. MOGILL: No, the Michigan Supreme Court did mention it favorably as well. JUSTICE BREYER: Alright, it did mention it favorably. Okay. So -- so we've got that. Now, actually, MR. MOGILL: I think the principle that the Court established there was very much -- MR. MOGILL: Rogers? JUSTICE BREYER: Yeah, Rogers. That went JUSTICE BREYER: Alright. Alright. But can you think of any Federal precedent on this issue that's come even close to that being sufficient? What's your best? MR. MOGILL: I think the closest point -- and it's important, and it goes, Justice Scalia, to respond to your point about lower court -- reliance on lower court opinions, is in Lanier, when the question issue here. And this Court very explicitly stated that its permissible for the world outside of court to look at lower court decisions, court of appeals decisions, in consistent -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: If you -- if you prevail here, it may well change the dynamic for State supreme courts. State supreme courts, much like us, they wait terms of what had been reasonably expressed. That's concerned what's the scope of the statute that's at that Kentucky case, was it? Tennessee? Official against you. until courts of appeals have issued their opinions. Official If you prevail, State supreme courts we are requesting here is simply that, while the They wait to see how the practical application of those works, insofar as of the fairness of the trial. They wait to see about scholarly commentaries, and then they -- and then they take the case. are -- are going to say -- you know, if we don't take this case, even though it's -- does not present the issue as clearly as some late case might, we don't rush in, then we're going to be foreclosed. I think you're proposing a dynamic which makes the Federal courts intrude on the way in which State courts choose to develop their law. MR. MOGILL: Justice Kennedy, thank you for that question, but I respectfully disagree. The relief Michigan Supreme Court was entirely free to interpret this statute any way it wanted to prospectively, so long as it didn't conflict with some other decision of this Court, the question is, what about applying it out clear principles for when a court that wants to reverse ground can do that or not, consistent with fundamental fairness, principles of notice, foreseeability, et cetera, all of which go in our retroactively? And this Court in Bouie and Rogers has set Official JUSTICE ALITO: Well, what is the unfairness --Do you think there's a reliance? MR. MOGILL: There's not a reliance, nor is that an element --JUSTICE ALITO: What is the -- so what is MR. MOGILL: In both -- in both Bouie and MR. MOGILL: I'm sorry? JUSTICE ALITO: What is the unfairness here? direction here. An -- an interesting contrast, and I think a useful contrast -- the unfairness here? Rogers, this Court made it clear that reliance is not an issue. The unfairness -- and that's a very important point, Justice Alito -- is that by eliminating the right to present this category of evidence, the mental health evidence that would show, if accepted by a jury, that the Respondent was guilty of second-degree murder, instead of first-degree murder, what the court was doing deliberation; they were aggravating the offense. That is a fundamental unfairness. is -- is very different from Bouie, which you -- which you rely on. In -- in Bouie, it was the question of a was expanding the -- the scope of premeditation and JUSTICE GINSBURG: But this -- the case Official rule that is governing conduct. People come on to premises; they have no reason to think that they are committing an offense if they don't leave when somebody asks them to if they came onto the premise lawfully. So what the Court said in Bouie was that this is a regulation of primary conduct, and, at the time these people acted, they had no reason to believe that what they did was unlawful. That's quite a different -- Justice Ginsburg, except that, at footnote in Bouie, this Court explicitly rejected the notion that subjective reliance by the accused is -- is even an aspect of the test for determining -- reliance; it's -- it's what was the law. MR. MOGILL: And -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: And the Court said that the State supreme court interpretation of the statute both Bouie and in Rogers was look at the underlying State law. In Bouie, the Court looked at the history of South Carolina law regarding trespass and found that, until a year and a half later, it hadn't been construed was quite a surprise. MR. MOGILL: Yes. And what the Court did in MR. MOGILL: Yeah, I agree with that, JUSTICE GINSBURG: It -- it isn't subjective Official to apply to a failure to leave, as opposed to an entry. In Rogers, the Court surveyed the very -- a It was relied on, it wasn't contested -- JUSTICE ALITO: I -- I don't see how the very sparse Tennessee authority on the year-and-a-day rule. That same analysis here will -- must lead to a conclusion that all of the law in Michigan -- and, again, there are minimal holdings, for the reasons Justice Sotomayor indicated -- the -- the minimal holdings, but all the mentions and the holding go in the direction of this existed. question can be whether there was a change in Michigan law because we can't second-guess the Michigan Supreme Court about what Michigan law was. Michigan law is whatever the State supreme court says it was. We might agree, we might disagree. So I think we have to start from the proposition that the law didn't change because that's what the Michigan Supreme Court said. So there must be some other ex post facto principle that applies when there's a certain type of unfairness. And I wonder if you could articulate what that principle is. Justice Alito, but, first, I want to address your point MR. MOGILL: I would be happy to, about having to rely on Michigan Supreme Court's Official determination of Michigan law because this Court has made it very clear that you can't let a State court relabel something in a way that avoids Federal constitutional review. Chief Justice Rehnquist spoke to that point in Collins v. Youngblood. Justice Kennedy, you spoke to that in your dissent in Clark. Justice Scalia, in your dissent in Rogers, you spoke to the point, I think, in an apt phrasing, that this Court will rely on a State court's reasonable determination of State law. I -- dissents is what you're relying on? majority -- the opinion of the Court in Collins, but it's also a well-established principle -- and I also wanted to note that the two other mentions, but it's not a principle that's been in dispute. The -- the Court's analysis in both Bouie and Rogers also supports what I'm saying because the Court independently looked at South Carolina law in Bouie. The Court independently looked at Tennessee law in Rogers and -- you're arguing is that, under certain -- in evaluating certain constitutional claims, the -- the question of JUSTICE ALITO: Well, I think you're -- what CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So two -- two MR. MOGILL: I'm sorry? No. The Official JUSTICE ALITO: Well, I mean, suppose this were a diversity case. Can -- can a Federal court say -- you know, we -- we think that the -- the what State law is, is not dispositive. I don't think you're arguing that a Federal court has a right to tell a State court what State law is. MR. MOGILL: This Court certainly does not have a right to tell the Michigan Supreme Court, going forward, what State law is with respect to diminished capacity. But -- decisions of the intermediate State supreme court were correct and this new decision by the State supreme court is incorrect, so we're not going to follow that? JUSTICE ALITO: It's not -- it's not this case because, there, you're trying to figure out what State law is. Here you're applying a constitutional principle. a constitutional principle -- me to the second part of my question. MR. MOGILL: Yes, exactly. JUSTICE ALITO: What is the -- the MR. MOGILL: No, but this is not -- that's not this case. This case involves reliance --MR. MOGILL: We're trying -- we're applying JUSTICE ALITO: So what is that -- that gets Official constitutional principle that doesn't depend on what State law was? MR. MOGILL: The constitutional principle is that Respondent had a right to present a defense that existed at the time of his offense, unless it was clearly unforeseeable -- excuse me -- unless it was unforeseeable and -- and indefensible by reference to law that had been expressed prior to the time of the conduct, that that law might change, which we don't have here. phrasing also goes to respond to your question. The -- the formulation in -- in Rogers that confines looking to the law as of the time that the conduct nothing to suggest an alternate interpretation of the statute, a questioning opinion, nothing that would suggest that the law in Michigan was about to change. doctrine is well-supported and increasingly supported by medical and mental health evidence. It's the -- the exact opposite of the year-and-a-day rule in that regard. It also furthers -- We also have the fact that, unlike the year-and-a-day rule, diminished capacity as -- as a occurred, and -- and, even if you go forward, there was And, Justice Breyer, I think that the JUSTICE ALITO: This is -- this is the due process issue, right? Official MR. MOGILL: It's -- that's exactly it -- JUSTICE ALITO: So why is it unfair? Why is there an entitlement under due process to assert what appears under the law of the State's intermediate court decisions to be a valid defense, but is later determined never to have been or not to have been, at that time, a valid defense? What is the unfairness involved there? MR. MOGILL: The unfairness is because it was sufficiently well-established -- it was thoroughly well-established as a matter of Michigan law, so Respondent and everybody else in Michigan had a right to rely on it. In fact, if this Court were to reverse the Sixth Circuit, Respondent would be the only person in Michigan charged with a crime prior to Carpenter who would not be allowed to present a diminished capacity defense at a fair trial. That's how extreme the violation was. JUSTICE BREYER: I guess the alternative is you are going to allow the bar associations, helpful as they are, by writing instructions to determine issues that courts themselves have never determined -- or at least not authoritative supreme courts. And that's a worrying matter, where you are trying to create coherent systems of law. Official MR. MOGILL: If I can briefly -- quickly the fact CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel. MR. MOGILL: Thank you very much. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Mr. Bursch, you have respond, Justice Breyer, the -- I disagree that we're -- that I'm in any way suggesting that turning anything over to the Bar Association. That --of that instruction is I think strong evidence of the reasonableness of reliance of the bench and bar in Michigan, but not looking to turn authority over to anybody. minutes remaining. of agreement after minutes of oral argument. holding that Mr. Carpenter would like that you can assert this defense, and that was the Lynch case in , which preceded the statute. Number one, Justice Breyer, is that there really is only one case in Michigan that reaches the REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF JOHN J. BURSCH ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER And so, under well-established Michigan law, again -- you know, In re Lamphere, Reese, which was MR. BURSCH: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice. I -- I think we actually have a lot of areas MR. BURSCH: I did not hear him say that. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I hate just to Official their decision reapplying In re Lamphere, that code occupies the field, and at that point, the common law decision no longer existed. JUSTICE SCALIA: I think he contested that. I think he never went further into it, but he seemed to disagree with the proposition that, where there is a Michigan statute, it can't be supplemented by the common law. And, if you go back and you read Reese and In re Lamphere, I don't know how anyone could possibly disagree with that. There are certainly areas -- interrupt you. my premise when I presented that to him. MR. BURSCH: Okay. Well, then I disagree with that. If you look at In re Lamphere and Reese, it's well-settled in Michigan that when the Michigan legislature speaks to a particular subject matter in MR. BURSCH: Sure. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But he did challenge MR. BURSCH: Okay. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So I do think he disagrees with it. criminal law that the code controls and the common law cannot supplement it. Official a dispute about that. JUSTICE GINSBURG: Is this -- is this a one And -- and I really don't think there can be The words of the Michigan Supreme Court in Reese itself were, "The courts have no power to add an affirmative defense that the legislature did not create." of a kind, in that, whatever the law was, it's clear from on? Are -- are there any other people who were similarly situated, who committed a crime before , but were tried after? Justice Ginsburg, and -- and the reason for that -- that quirk is because his habeas process, by coincidence, happened to take such a long time. It's pretty rare that we're up here on a case where the murder actually took place years ago and the trial is shortly after that. happens don't determine whether people get the benefit of changes in law or not. What matters is the standard that this Court applied in Rogers and Bouie, was the change -- if there was a change -- indefensible and not MR. BURSCH: I'm -- I'm not aware of any, But -- but quirks in how long litigation expected. Official Was it -- can you point to anything? MR. BURSCH: We can't point to anything, just like they can't point to anything. You've got a --you know, in --JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, I guess they can point JUSTICE KAGAN: Was there anyone prior to who couldn't raise a defense like this, who was precluded from doing so because a court thought, oh --you know, the -- the statute really clears the field, and -- and this defense is not available? to just a lot of people who were raising this defense. MR. BURSCH: Right. And they can point to cases that assume, without deciding, that the defense might exist. And then it wasn't until , when the Michigan Supreme Court became the first Michigan court to look at it -- and I forget now who mentioned this, I think it was Justice Kennedy -- that the Michigan Supreme Court did what this Court often does, it waited for the right case to present itself. statutory language in accordance with Michigan interpretive law. JUSTICE GINSBURG: Why -- why was it -- JUSTICE KAGAN: This is -- I'm sorry. JUSTICE GINSBURG: Why was it the right And, when it did, it applied the plain case? The parties didn't even raise it, did they? Official I don't know why the Michigan Supreme Court took it up in Carpenter. What I do know is that fair-minded jurists, which is the habeas standard, could agree that Carpenter was neither indefensible nor MR. BURSCH: Well -- you know, it could be because the Michigan Supreme Court thought -- you know, there's enough confusion, because of the mentions in the lower court, that it's time that -- that we address this. unexpected. And -- you know, it's not a head-counting business, but I would note that the Michigan Court of Appeals here was unanimous. Talton, decided the year after Carpenter, reached the exact same conclusion with respect to the due process question. So we've got six Michigan appellate judges looking at this. the Griffin case, this is the three-paragraph order where they -- they remand for ineffective assistance. Well, Griffin is one of the cases that the Michigan Supreme Court discusses in Carpenter. Michigan law said, I -- I also heard my friend mention Previously, the Michigan Court of Appeals in You know, going back to -- to what the And, in the very next sentence, the supreme Official And what you have to ask yourself, is it court says, "However, we have never specifically authorized the defense's use in Michigan courts." You know, it just wasn't there. What you have are these mentions, and, then, as Justice Breyer mentioned, he's got jury instructions, which are promulgated by the State bar, not the State supreme court -- or by any court, for that matter. objectively unreasonable, is it beyond any possibility of fair-minded disagreement that a Michigan Court of Appeals panel could conclude that Carpenter was both indefensible and unexpected. And -- JUSTICE BREYER: Do you have any idea -- a rough estimate, how many cases there were between, say, mentions in the appellate courts. About. MR. BURSCH: About , I believe. It was four Michigan Supreme Court opinions and Court of Appeals, so it was . itself said their four, decisions didn't say one way or the other. Of the other , of them weren't even ' and ', where this defense was raised? MR. BURSCH: Well, all we have are the JUSTICE BREYER: Do you know about how many? Now, of those the Michigan Supreme Court Official If you are thinking about what's firmly established -- you know, there were no roots at all to these mentions. It would be like walking past your neighbor's yard -- you know, if there is an oak tree there, you expect it to be there the next day. You binding in other Michigan Court of Appeals panels. As we explained in our brief, the Michigan Court of Appeals wasn't bound to follow any panel decision prior to November st, . So those weren't even binding on the court of appeals itself. know, but if there is a small weed, you expect it to be pulled up and rooted out. the Michigan Supreme Court finally addressed the establishing the principle that you cannot supplement the defenses in a criminal statute, but Reese was a case. because it's the most recent application. It cites In re Lamphere, which is an decision, which itself references the Territorial Act which abolished common law criminal principles -- if you have the JUSTICE SCALIA: You -- you rely on Reese as MR. BURSCH: Right. I mentioned Reese And that's exactly what happened here when question. statute -- in the middle? Official JUSTICE KAGAN: Do you have something like (Laughter.) MR. BURSCH: There are many cases in the (Laughter.) MR. BURSCH: -- you -- you will find scores of cases that rely on this proposition. It's -- it's middle. There is at least a case, although I can't recall the name. If you just KeyCite or Shepardize In re Lamphere -- not in dispute. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I'm sorry. Then you're arguing that Lynch was wrong to begin with because what you are arguing is that it created a common law defense Lynch, which was the common law -- saying to me it was wrongly decided under this general and Reese and everything else say is that, when the legislature has spoken to a particular area, then the courts cannot supplement. They had never spoken about that the courts say you can't do under Michigan law. MR. BURSCH: Right, exactly. You've got MR. BURSCH: Oh, no, no, no. To be perfectly clear, what In re Lamphere JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: No, no, but you're Michigan -- Official mental capacity defenses prior to , and so the slate was free for the courts to do what they wanted. So there's nothing wrong with Lynch in '. The problem is continuing to assume that there was a defense that wasn't in the ' statute. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: If you were MR. BURSCH: Undoubtedly. But I don't think representing a defendant in this position, you certainly would have raised the diminished capacity defense prior to Carpenter, wouldn't you? it means that fair-minded jurists could not possibly conclude that Carpenter was both indefensible and not expected. would you have? MR. BURSCH: Well, I don't know. If I was a prosecutor, I would have looked at the plain language of the statute -- that any prosecutor ever objected to such a defense? MR. BURSCH: I don't know one way or the other. We -- we just don't have the data for that. JUSTICE KAGAN: Do you have any -- MR. BURSCH: -- and I probably would have. JUSTICE KAGAN: -- have any reason to think prosecutor, you would not have objected to that defense, JUSTICE KAGAN: And, if you were a Official about here -- Yeah, so, ultimately, what we are talking JUSTICE SCALIA: I assume you'd need a case in which the prosecutor was pretty -- pretty clear that a diminished capacity defense would prevail. Otherwise, it wouldn't -- the game wouldn't be worth the camel, right? MR. BURSCH: That's exactly right, Justice. JUSTICE BREYER: But what's in the cases then? I -- they got up there. I assume the defendant must have brought them. They must have brought them. They must have wanted to -- to raise the defense, and somebody said no. raise the defense and the court said no, nor was there a case where the prosecutor said, you can't raise the defense, and the court said yes. It was just a number of cases. And -- you know, Mangiapane is really the JUSTICE BREYER: Yeah. MR. BURSCH: But the question was did they give notice? If the defense exists, is it part of the statute? And -- and all the Michigan courts agree that that has to be the case. But it's not till Carpenter, MR. BURSCH: No, I don't believe that there was a single case in those where someone tried to paradigm example. Official MR. BURSCH: You know, all we've got are the where the court finally says, is it part of the statute, and it says no. JUSTICE KAGAN: Just to go back to appellate decisions referencing it. JUSTICE KAGAN: Right. MR. BURSCH: So if we've got cases -- JUSTICE KAGAN: You can't really tell Justice Breyer's question -- I mean, there may be no way you can answer this, but are we talking about -- you know, do five people a year -- did five people a year raise this or -- or or ? I mean, what kind of numbers? because nobody was objecting to anything -- course of years, ' to -- to '. Now, that -- that tells us maybe two cases a year in a system that make the Supreme Court's application of the plain language so indefensible, so unexpected, that no reasonable jurist could possibly have reached the same MR. BURSCH: Correct. JUSTICE KAGAN: -- right? MR. BURSCH: So you've got cases over a processes thousands of criminal cases. You know, there was nothing here that would conclusion as now two unanimous Michigan Court of Appeals panels have. Official I wanted to touch, briefly, on the unfairness point. And Justice Ginsburg, I -- I believe brought up Bouie, and Bouie is really the perfect analogy because, again, under the AEDPA standard, it's Lancaster's burden to show that the court of appeals decision here was contrary to our misapplication. And, to the contrary, it was the exact application of Bouie. In Bouie, you had a clear statute that was very narrow, and the State court expanded it in a very unexpected way. And this Court found that was indefensible and unexpected. the Michigan Supreme Court applying very narrow accord with years of interpretive principles. So -- so, really, the problem here is not any unfairness. The problem is the Sixth Circuit, yet again, not applying habeas deference under the statute Michigan State court decision where reasonable jurists could have reached different conclusions on this. what the law was or wasn't. All we have to show is that statutory language exactly the way it was written, in a reasonable jurist could have reached the conclusion The exact opposite happened here. You had or this Court's precedent and disregarding another It's not our burden to -- to demonstrate Official the Michigan Court of Appeals did here, and there doesn't appear to be any question that's the case. JUSTICE SCALIA: You want us to say, "yet MR. BURSCH: Yes, Justice Scalia. (Laughter.) MR. BURSCH: If there are no further CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel. The case is submitted. (Whereupon, at : a.m., the case in the questions, thank you very much. again," when we write our opinion? above-entitled matter was submitted.) OfficialOfficial analysis : :, : : : analyze : analyzed : ancient : announces : answer : : : : : :, : : : anybody : : : : : applies : : : apply : : applying : : :, :, april : apt : area : : : : areas : : avoids :advanced : aedpa : : : : : : : affect : affirmative : : : aggravating : aggressive : ago : agree :, : :, : : : : agreed : agreement : :, :assuming :attorney :attorneys :authoritativeauthority ::::authorized :available :: : :avulsive :aware :,: :Bb :back : :: ::background:balance :bar : :: :: :,:based : :,: :basis ::, ::basket :batson :,beginning :behalf :,:,, :: :believe :: :: ::believed :believes :bench :A able : : abolish : : : abolished : : : aboveentitled : : absolutely : : accept : accepted : accepts : accord : : : : accused : : acknowledge : : acknowledged : : acquit : acquittal : :, act : acted : acting : action : add :, : : : : added : addendum : adding : additions : address : : : addressed : : : addresses : admissibility : : admissible : : adopted : anyway : appeal : arent : arguable : : :, arguably :: : :appeals : : arguing :: ::,argument ::,, :,: :: ::,agrees : ah : ahead : alia : alito :, : : :, : :, :, : : : :,,, : : allegedly : allow : appear : allowed : : appearances :, :, : : : : : : :,, :, : :, : art :,:, : : :, article ::, : :, :, : articulate :aside :asked : :asks :aspect :assert : :: : : : allows : alright : :, alternate : alternative : ambiguous : : amendment : amici : analogy : appears : appellate : : : : : :, : : : :assertion :assistance :: :: :association :application : associations: : : : : applications : applied : :assume :,: ::,assumed :: : Official benefit : best : better :, beyond : : : : : : bigger : binding : : :, binds :, bit : bottom : bouie :, : : :,, :,,, :, : :,,, bound : breyer :,, :,,, :,,, :,, :,,, :,, : : :, : : : : :, :,, :, breyers : brief : : : :, : : briefly : : broad : brother : brought : : : bunkley : burden : :, bursch : : : :,, : :, : : : : : :,, : :, :, :, : : :,, :,,, : :, : :, : :, :, : :,, :,, :,,, :, burt : business : Cc : : : camel :cant : : : :: : : : :,: :capacity :,: :,,,: :,,: : : :,,: :,: :,: : : :,,: :,: :,:,,:,,,:,,,:, : : :: :: :: :: ::, : careful :carolina : : : carpenter : : : : : : :, : :, : : : : :,,, : :, : : cetera : challenge : : change :, : : : :, :, : : changed : : : changes : : : charge : chief :, : : :,, : :,, :, : : :, :,, :,, : : case : : : :,, :, : : :, charged : : :, : :, : :, :, : :, : : :, :,, : : :, : :, : :,, : :,,, :, : cite : cites : : :, claim : : : :,,, :,, choose : circuit :, : : : claiming : claims : clark : clear :, clears : close : : closest : : : code : : : : : :, codified : : coherent : coincidence : colleague : collins :, come :, : : : : : comes : : : comfortable : commentaries : committed : committee : :,committing : common :,: :, : : : : : :,:,,: :,competent : comply : comprehensivecases : : : : : : : : : : :, : : :, :, category : : certain : :, certainly : : : : : : : :,,,, :,, : : : :, comprised : concede : : : concept : : : concerned : : : : : : : clearly : : : : : : conclude : : : conclusion : : : : Official : : : conclusions : conduct :, :, confines : conflict : confusion : consider : consistent : : : constitution : constitutional : :, :, : : construed : construing : contest : contested : : : continuing : contrary : :, : : : :, contrast :, controls : convicted : :, : : conviction : : :, correct : : : : : correctly : couldnt : counsel : : : : : :, : : : counsels : crazy : : create : : :, :,, : courts :, : :, : :, : : :,, : : : : : :, : : :,, :,, : :, :, : :, : : : : : : course : court :, : :,, : :, :, :, :, :,, : :,, : :,, : : :,, :,,, :,,, :,,,, :,, :,, :,,, :, : :, : : :, : :, : : : : :,,, :, : :, : created : : :, creative : :,,, :,,, :,, :,, :,,, :,, :,,, :, : :,,, curious : : :, :, : :,,, : :,, :,,, :, : : :, :,, :,,,, : :,, :,,, :,,, :, : cut : Dd : : data :day : : days :dealing :death :decide :: :credit : crime :, : : : ::crucial : : decided :, : : : deciding : : decision : :, :, : : : :, : : : :,, : : : : : : : : :, :, :, :,, : : :,,, : : :,,, :,,, : defenses : : : : : : : : : defensible : : deference : : : : : decisions : deficient : define :, defined : : : : : :, : definition : : : : : : :, :, : : determined : : defense :, :,, : :, :,, determine : :, : :,, : : : :,, :, : :, : :,, : : :,, : : : :, : develop : dicta : didnt : : : : :,: : : : determining: declined : : defendant : : : : : :, : :, : : criminal :, : :, : : :, : defendants degree : deliberation : : : : demonstrate : deny : depend : describe : described : determination Official : : : dissents : diversity : difference : doctrine : different : : : : : : : : : encompassed entirely : : : : : : : exaggeratedly : doesnt : : entitlement : example : : : excludes : excluding : exclusion : doing :, : : : : entry : enumerated enumerates : : excuse : : : excuses : exist : errors :, especially : esq :, :, existed : : : : : : : : : : erroneous : error : : difficult : diminished : : :,,, : :,, dont :, : : : : : : : : : :, : : : : :, : : : :, : : : : : : :, :, : :, : :,,, establish : :,,, :,,, : :,,, :,,, due : :, :, : : : : :, : :, : : : : : : : : : : : : establishing estimate : et : evaluating : : : : dynamic : dotted : E e : :, easier : : direction : : : : : established : : : disagree : : : : : :,, disagreement : : disagrees : discount : discusses : disposed : dispositive : : dispute : : : disregarding : dissent :, : easiest : easy : : effect : : : egg : eggs :, either : : element : : : elements : : eliminating enacted : : : encompass : everybody : : : : evidence : :, : :, : :, : : : : evolution : evolves : ex : exact : : : : :, exactly : : : : : exists : : : : exoneration : expanded : expanding : expect : :, expectation : expected : : : : : explained : explicitly : : : : explore : express : expressed : : : expressly : extent : extreme : : : : F face : fact : :, : : : : : : : facto : facts : : : factual : : failing : fails : failure : : fair : : fairly :,fairminded : : : : : fairness : :,far : favor :,favorable : favorably : :, favors : federal : : : : : : :, field : : figure : fill : finally : : : find : : : : finding : fiore : :, firmly :, : : : first : : Official g : : hadnt : half : hand : happen : : : G : :, : : : game : : : : :, : : : firstdegree : ginsburg : : : five :, follow : : :, : : : followed : following : follows : footnote : force : forcefully : foreclosed : foreseeability general : : : :, : happened : :, : : : : : : : happens : :,, :,, : :, harrington : : :, :, : ginsburgs : give : : health : : : :, : given : : hear : : heard : : : hearing : :, held :, : : : :, : hate : headcounting happy : hard : : : : : go : : : : foreseeable : forget : formulation hell : goes : : going : : :,, helpful : : : : : :, :, : : hes :,, : forward : : : : found : : : four : : framework : : : free : : friend : full : fully : fundamental : : : fundamentally : further : : : furthers : governing : great : : : griffin : :, : :, ground : grows : guess : : : guide : guilty : : : H habeas : : : : : idea : identical : : : ill : illness : : : : : im : : :,, : : :, : : :, :, : : : : : : :, : :, : : implicate : important : : : : impute :, incapacity : incidentally include : : : includes : including : inconclusive incorrect : increasingly : : : : indefensible : : : : : : : : : : : : : independently :, indiana : indicated : indicates : : : indicating : ineffective : : : : : : infant : infected : insane : insanity : : :, :,,, : insofar : instances : instruction : : : instructions :, : : : : intent : inter : interested : interesting : interim : interlocutory :,, intermediate :, : : :, : : interpret : interpretation : : :, : : : : interpreted : interpretive : : : : interrupt : intrude : high : history : : : : : hold : holding : : : : :, :,, :,, : : : holdings :, : :, holds : hypothetical :, I id : : Official investigate : involved : involves : involving : isnt : : : : : : isolated : issue : : : :, : : : issued : issues : : ive : : J j : :, : : john : :, : : judge : : : : judges : : : : judicial : : judiciary : jurisdiction : jurist : : : jurists : : : jury : : : : : justice :, :,, : :, : :,, :, :, : : :, :, : :, : :,,, K : : kenneth : kennedy :, : :,, :, : : : : kentucky : keycite : kill : killed : killing : kind : : : : : : : :,, : :, : kagan :, : :,, : : : : :,,,, :,, :,, : : :, :,, : :, :,,, :, :,, :,,, : :, :, : :,,, :,,, :,, :,,, :,, :,,, :,, :,,, :,,,, :,,,, :,,, :, : :,,, :, : :,, : :, :,, :,, :,, :,,,, :,,, :, : : :, :,, :,,, :, : :,,, : :, : : :,, :,,, :,,, :,,, : : :,, king : knew : know : : : :, : :, : :, :, : : : : : : : : : :, :,, :,, :, :, : :, : :, : knowing : knowledge :,,, known : L lack : lake : lamphere : : :, : : :, lancaster : : lancasters : : land : language : : :, : : : : : : : : lanier : lansing : late : laughter : :, : law :,,, : :, : : :,, : :,, :, : :, : :,, :,,, :,, :,,, : : :, : : : : : :,,, : :, : : :,, :,,, : :, :, : :,, : :,,, :, : : :, :, : : : : : :,, : lawfully : lawyer : lay : layer : : lead : leave : : : left : legal : : :, :, : legislature : : : : : : : : :, : : :, : looking : : : lot : : : : : lower :, lens : light : limine : limited : linda : line : litigation : : little : : : : : longer : look :, : : : : : : : looked : long : : : : :, : lynch :, mentioned : :,,, :, : :, :, : :, : :, mentioner : : : : : : : : : : : Official : : :,,, :,,, :,, :,,, :,, :, : : :, : :, :, : : :,, :,, : : :,,, : :, :, O o : : oak : objected : :,objecting : : : objection : objectivelymiddle : mentioners : moot : mentions : michigans : morning : :, : multistate : obviously :murder : occupies :: :, occurred :: : :offense :N:,, : : : : :, : midstream merely : merits : :, : mind : : minimal :, minutes : : M m :, : : : : majority : making : malfunction : mangiapane :, : : : : :, :, : matter : : : : : : :, : : : matters : mean : : :,,,, : : : : : :, meaning : means : : :, : : meant :, medical : mental :,, :,, : :, :, : : : : mention : : : metrish : : michigan : misapplication : : : : : : :, : :, :, misapplied :,,, :,,,, mitigate : mitigates : :,,, : :, : : :, modified : mogill : : : :, :,, :, : :,, : :, : :, : :,,, :, : :, : : :, : :, : :, : :, :,, : :, :,, :, : :,, : :, : :, :,,,, :,,, :,, : :,, :, :, :,,, : : :, : :,,, :, : :,,, :,, :,, :,,, : : : :, :,,, :,, : :, : :, :,,, n :, : name :narrow :,nearly :,need : : negate : : negative :neighbors :neither :: :never :,: :,: ::, : : :new : : :northwest :note : : notice ::, : :, : : :noticed :notion :novel :november :number ::numbers :: :,: ::offer :,oh : : ::okay : : : :,: ::,once :,,ontheground: :opinion :: :: :: : :opinions ::, : opportunityopposed :opposing ::::opposite :: :: :option : oral : :, : : : : phrasing : : : :, : : order : : piece : pieces : place : places : plain : : : : : : : : : orion : outcome : outside : override : overturn : P p : page : : : : panel : : panels : : paradigm : part : : : : : : : : partial : : particular : : : : parties : passed :, : : pattern : people :, :, : : :, :, : :, percolate : perfect : perfectly : period : permissible please : : : plenty : point : : :,, : : : : : :, : : :, : :,,,, : pointed : : points : position : : : possibility : : possible : possibly : : : : post : power : : : practical : practice : preceded : precedent : : : : : : : permit :, person : : petitioner :, precedentially :, : : Official process : :, : : precluded : premeditation : : : : premise : : : : :, : : : : : : : : premises : : : prepared : proposing : questioning processes : prohibit : promulgated : : : : proposition : : :, present :, : : : : : : : presented : presents : prestatute : : pretty : : :, prevail : : : : : previously : : primary : principle : : : : prosecution : : prosecutor : : :,, :,, :, prosecutors : : :, : : prospectively : prove : psychiatric : published : : : :, : : : : :, pulled : punish : :, : pure : principles : put : puts :, putting : : : : : : : :, : : Q question : prior : : : : : : :, probably : : : problem : : :, procedural : : : : : :, : : : :, : :, : : :, :, : :, : : : questions : : : quickly : quirk : quirks : quite : : :, quote : quoted : R r : raise :, : : : : : : :,, : : : :, : : raised : : : :, : : : raises : raising : rare : : reach : : : reached : : : :, reaches : read : reading : : : really : :, Official respondent : : : : :,, : : :, :, : rejected : : : : : : :, reapplying : reason : : : :, : : relabel : relation : relatively : relevant : reliance : : :, : :, response : responses : : : responsibility relied : : respondents reasonable : : : :, reasonableness : relief : rely :,, : : : : : : : relying : remaining : remand : :,, : retroactive : retroactively : : remanded : reversal : remanding : reasonably : : reasons : : : rebut : rebuttal : : recall : recognize : recognized : : : recognizes : : recognizing :, record : red : reduced : reese : :, : :,, : refer : reference : : : references : referencing : regard : regarding : : regulation : rehnquist : : rendered : reply : report : representing : requesting : required : requirements : requires : reserve : respect : : : : : : : respectfully : :, : : respond : : : : result : : : retardation : : : retrial :, : retried : : reversals : reverse : : : : reversed : : : : : : review : richter : right : : : : : : :,, :,, :,, : :, :,, :, : : :, : :, :,, : : :, : : roberts : : :,, : :,, :, : : :, :,, : : rogers :, :, :, : : : :, : : : :, : : : : :,, : : rooted : roots : rough : routinely : rule :, : : : : :, ruled : rules : ruling : : rush : Ss : : saying :: ::says : : : :,: :,: :,:, : :, : :, : : :,scale :scalia : : :,,, : :, : :,, :,, : :, :,, :,,, :,,,, :,,, :,,, : : : : : :, scalias : scheme : scholarly : scope : : scores : second : : : :, : : : : : seconddegree : secondguess :, : section : see : : : :, : seek :, seeking : seen : sense : : sentence : sentenced : separate : set : : : : settled : shepardize : shortly : shot : shouldnt : show : : Official : surveyed : system : suggest :, systems : : :, : specified : :, specify : spoke :,, spoken : :, standard : : :, : : : : stands : start : starvation : : sufficient : sufficiently :, : :,,, : :, : : :, : suggested : :, : : :, : : : : : : : : :, : : : : :, supplement : : : : : : supplemented suggesting : : suggests : : side : : : significant : silence : similar : similarly : simple : simply : : : : single : : : : : situated : situation : six : sixth :, : : slate : small : : solicitor : :, somebody : : : sorry : : : : : : : : : : sort : sotomayor : : : :, :,,, : :, sounds : source : south : : : sparse : speaks : specifically : : : Tt :, take : : :, : talk : talking :,: :: : talton : tell : :, :tells : tend :tended ::tennessee :: : : : : : : :term : : terms : : territorial : territory : test : testimony : text : : : thank : : : : :,, :, thats : : : :: :: :,: ::, : : ::, :, :,,:, : supports : : : : : : :, suppose : : :, : : : : : statutes : statutory : state : : :,,,, :,,, :, : :,, : : : :, :, : : : :, : : :, strange : : :, : :,, :,,, : :, :, strong : structure : subject :, strickland : stood : :, stated : : : statement : : : states :, : : :, : statewide : : : : subjective : submission : submit : : : :, submitted : : subsequent : : subsequently statistics : statute :,, : :,, :,,, :,,, : subtract : : :, :, : : : : :, : :, suchandsuch : : successful : supported : : : supreme :, : : : :, :, :,, : :, : : : : : :,, : : :, : : :, :, : : :, :, : :,,, :,, : : :, : :,, :,, : : : sure : surprise :, : : surprised : surprising : surprisingly Official :, : :,, : : : : : :, : : : : theres : :, : : : :, : : : thing : : things :, : : think : : : :, :,, : : : :, :, : : :, : :, : : :, : : :, :, : :, :, : : : :, thinking : thinks : thoroughly : thought :,, : : : thousands : threeparagraph : till : : time : : : : :, : :, : :,, : : : times : : today : : : : tomorrow : toni : top : touch : tracks : tradition : : treatises : tree : trespass : trial : : underneath : understand : understanding undoubtedly : : : unexpected : : : : : : : : :, unexpectedly : : : : :, unfair :, : :, : : : :, : : : unfairness : :,,, : :, :, : tried :, : : : unforeseeable : :, uniformly : unique :, true : : trying : united :, : : :, : unlawful : : turn : : unquestionably : : turning : two : : unreasonable :, : unusual : : :, : :, use : : type : U ultimately : : unanimous : : uncertainty : uncontested : underlying : : useful : V v : :, : vacated : vacating : vacuum :, valid : : view :, : : violate : violation : weve :, : : :, : :,wait : : W:waited :walking :want :: ::wanted :: :: :: ::wants ::warden :warrant :washington :wasnt : : : :: :: :: : : :way : : : ::, : : :: ::,weave : wednesday :weed : wellestablished: : : : :,: :: :,:wellsettledwellsupportedwent : : :::whats :,: : wished : wonder : : : wondering : wont : : word : worded : words : : : works : world : worrying : worth : wouldnt : : :,: : : :,write : writing : written : wrong : : : : : : : wrongly : Xx :, :, :,Yyard :yeah :,: ::,year :,: :: :: :,:yearandaday : : :, years :,, : :, : : : : : : : youd : : youll : youngblood : youre : : : : : :,, :,, :, youve : : : : : : Z zero :, :, : : : : : : : : : : : : year : : : : : : : : : : : : : :, :,,, : : : :,,, Official : : : : : : : : : : : : :, : : : : : :, : : : : : : : : : : :, : : : : : : : : : : st : : : : : :,, : : : : : : : :, : : :, year : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : :, : : :, : : : : 