 The above-entitled matter came on for oral Official IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES v. Washington, D.C. Monday, March , Petitioner - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION, : : No. - : ACTAVIS, INC., ET AL. : - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x argument before the Supreme Court of the United States at : a.m. APPEARANCES: JEFFREY I. WEINBERGER, ESQ., Los Angeles, California; on Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on behalf of Petitioner. MALCOLM L. STEWART, ESQ., Deputy Solicitor General, behalf of Respondents. Official C O N T E N T S PAGE On behalf of the Petitioner On behalf of the Respondents On behalf of the Petitioner ORAL ARGUMENT OF ORAL ARGUMENT OF MALCOLM L. STEWART, ESQ. JEFFREY I. WEINBERGER, ESQ. REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF MALCOLM L. STEWART, ESQ. Commission v. Actavis. please the Court: Official P R O C E E D I N G S (: a.m.) CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER MR. STEWART: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it Mr. Stewart. ORAL ARGUMENT OF MALCOLM L. STEWART next this morning in Case -, the Federal Trade As a general matter, a payment from one business to another in exchange for the recipient's agreement not to compete is an paradigmatic antitrust trust violation. The question presented here is whether encompassed within the settlement of a patent infringement suit. The answer to that question is no. suits are objectionable for the same reasons that They subvert the competitive process by giving generic manufacturers an incentive to accept a share of their rival's monopoly profits as a substitute for actual competition in the --such a payment should be treated as lawful when it is payments not to compete are generally objectionable. JUSTICE SCALIA: Why -- why are payments not Reverse payments to settle Hatch-Waxman Official exclusive -- exclusive rights to sell in a particular to compete different from, let's say, dividing a market? I mean, suppose there's a lawsuit, somebody challenging the validity of the patent and the patentee agrees to allow the person challenging the patent to have area. Does that violate the antitrust laws? MR. STEWART: I mean, there are really two differences between that -- that scenario and the one presented here. The first is that an exclusive license is expressly authorized by the Patent Act, in Section of Title , but -- but the second thing is -- JUSTICE SCALIA: That -- that doesn't impress me. What else? What's your second point? (Laughter.) MR. STEWART: The second thing is that an exclusive license doesn't give the -- the infringement defendant anything that it couldn't hope to achieve by prevailing in the lawsuit. That is, if the -- at least any right to compete that it wouldn't get by prevailing in the lawsuit. be able to sell wherever it wanted to. Now, there may be some --JUSTICE SCALIA: In order to make money. I If the infringement defendant won, it would Official whole thing, here's the money. Go away. mean, that's -- that's what it wants is money. MR. STEWART: But the point of -- JUSTICE SCALIA: So instead of giving them a license to compete -- you know, we'll short-circuit the MR. STEWART: But the point here is that the money is being given as a substitute for earning profits in a competitive marketplace. That is, in -- in the Hatch-Waxman settlement context, by definition, we have a disagreement by parties as to the relative merits of the infringement and -- and/or validity questions as to the patent infringement suit. and infringed. The generic is saying either that the infringing or both. And if the generic wins, it will be able to enter the market immediately. If the brand name wins, it will be able to keep the generic off until the patent expires. subject of compromise would be to agree upon an entry date in between those two end points, just as the parties to a damages action would be expected to settle the case by the defendant agreeing to pay a portion of the money it would have to pay if it lost. That's an The brand name is saying its patent is valid patent is invalid or that its own conduct won't be And so in that circumstance, a logical Official MR. STEWART: Yes. JUSTICE SCALIA: -- for something that it's MR. STEWART: Yes, if you adopt Respondent's actual subject of compromise and we don't have a problem with that. JUSTICE SCALIA: Mr. Stewart, do you have a case in which the patentee, acting within the scope of the patent, has nonetheless been held liable under the antitrust laws -- done acting within the scope of the patent? exclusive test, the defendants in Masonite, in New the hook because all of those cases involved restrictions on trade in patented goods during the period that the patent was in effect, and yet, the Court found antitrust liability in each of these. conception of what it means to act within the scope of the patent. And let me explain. When Respondents say that the restrictions at issue here are within the scope of the patent, what they mean is that the goods that are being restricted are arguably encompassed by the patent and the restriction doesn't extend past the date when the patent expires. Wrinkle, in Line Material, they would all have been off That's all they mean. And if that were the Now, the way that Respondent tries to Official Now, Respondents say, well, that's consistent with their theory because the restriction imposed went beyond the scope of the patent because the right to control resale is not one of the rights that the Patent Act confers. But if that's the test for whether a explain Masonite, for example, Masonite involved a resale price maintenance agreement in which the patentholder sold goods and then attempted to control the price at which they would be resold, and the Court said that under the rule of patent exhaustion, the patentholder didn't have the right to do that and therefore the patent laws provided no shield and the agreement was held to be a violation of the antitrust laws. position, that if you have -- if a patentholder has a non-sham allegation that a particular mode of competition would be an infringement of its patent, the restriction is within the scope of the patent, then we would say that it's not met here because there's nothing in the Patent Act that says you can pay your competitor not to engage in conduct that you believe to be infringing. patentholder can pay the competitor not to engage in And really that's the thrust of their Official Again, we are not talking about conduct in JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Stewart, does this Schering-Plough case, that was also before the Eleventh Circuit, that the government was not taking that position it is now taking. MR. STEWART: Well, the FTC has consistently cases in which the patent holder has a non-sham that competition. which there has been any judicial determination that infringement has occurred. We are just talking about allegation that infringement would occur. represent a change in the government's position? I got the idea from the briefs that at the time of this taken this position. The Department of Justice, up until , we didn't endorse the scope of the patent test. Indeed, in our invitation brief in Joblove we specifically said that the scope-of-the-patent test was -- didn't provide for enough scrutiny of these settlements. of Justice advocated, instead was a test that would focus on the strength and scope of the patent. That is, the likelihood that the brand name would off --ultimately have prevailed if the suit had been litigated to judgment. But what we advocated -- what the Department Official And in , for the first time in an amicus way, that -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: That's -- that's my MR. STEWART: We would say that that's not a presumptively unlawful with the presumption able to be brief filed in the Second Circuit, we took essentially the position that we're taking here, that is that agreements of this sort should be treated as rebutted in various ways. JUSTICE KENNEDY: And one way is to assess the validity or the strength of the infringement case? concern, is your test is the same for a very weak patent as a very strong patent. That doesn't make a lot of sense. Now, it probably is the case that our test would have greater practical import in cases where the parties perceive the patent to be --MR. STEWART: Well, the test is whether there has been a payment that would tend to skew the parties' choice of an entry date, that would tend to provide an incentive for the parties to -- for the generic to agree to an entry date later than the one that it would otherwise insist on. JUSTICE KENNEDY: Why wouldn't that determination itself reflect the strength or weakness of Official MR. STEWART: Well, I think in the kind of And so if the parties believe that the brand name was likely to prevail, then if the brand name parties simply agree to a compromise date of generic the patent so that the market forces take that into account? settlement that we would regard as legitimate, where the entry, then the parties would certainly take into account their own assessment of what would likely happen at the end of the suit. agreed to early generic entry at all, it would presumably be for a fairly small amount of time. believe that the generic -- that the brand name had a weak case and the generic was likely to prevail, then they would negotiate for an earlier date. And the problem with the reverse payment is that it gives the generic an incentive to accept something other than competition as a means of earning money. problem, I gather, until the Hatch-Waxman amendments? payments appear to be essentially unknown in other I mean, to take another -- JUSTICE SCALIA: This -- this was not a Conversely, if the parties collectively MR. STEWART: These suits -- these types of lawsuits and in other patent infringement cases. Official produce this kind of -- this kind of payment. tried to cover its tracks in later amendments, right, which -- which deter these, these -- these payments. JUSTICE SCALIA: Yes, and so -- and so do suits against this kind of payment. And I have -- I have the feeling that what happened is that Hatch-Waxman made a mistake. It did not foresee that it would And in order to rectify the mistake, the FTC comes in and brings in a new interpretation of antitrust law that did not exist before, just to make up for the mistake that Hatch-Waxman made, even though Congress has MR. STEWART: Congress has tried to reduce the incentives for these payments to be made. I mean -- JUSTICE SCALIA: So why should we overturn understood antitrust laws just to -- just to patch up a mistake that Hatch-Waxman made? MR. STEWART: Well, a couple things I would say. First, I don't think we're -- we're not asking you to overturn established antitrust laws. To take another analogy, for example, if Watson instead of developing a generic equivalent to AndroGel, had developed an entirely new drug that it believed would be better than AndroGel for the same conditions and if Solvay had paid Watson not to seek FDA approval and not to seek -- to market the drug, I think everyone would agree that that Official And so when we say it's unlawful to buy off To focus on the distinction between Hatch-Waxman and other patent litigation, Professor uncertain competition, it's unlawful to buy off was a per se antitrust violation, even though Watson's ultimate ability to market the new drug would depend on FDA approval that might or might not be granted. competition, even when the competition might have been prevented by other means, we are just enforcing standard antitrust principles. Hovenkamp's conclusion is that the reason that you don't see payments like this in the normal patent infringement suit is that in the typical market if a patent holder were known to have paid a large sum of money to a competitor who had been making a challenge to the patent, if other competitors knew that that had happened, then they would perceive that to be a sign that the patent was weak and that they would leap in. unique incentives to the first paragraph filer. -month rule primarily? difficult for that to be done because Hatch-Waxman gives But he says Hatch-Waxman makes it more JUSTICE KENNEDY: Is that the -- the MR. STEWART: It's a -day period of exclusivity. Congress granted the -day exclusivity period because it wanted generics to have ample incentives to challenge patents that were perceived to be weak. And if the first filer is able to essentially MR. STEWART: Yes, and the way it works is yes. that the exclusivity period is not good in and of itself for consumers. That is, during the period when one generic is on the market and the others are not yet allowed to compete, you have essentially duopoly conditions, the price of the -- the drug drops but only by a little bit. other than early entry into the marketplace, then other potential competitors face barriers to entry that they -- similarly situated competitors wouldn't face in other industries. that's rather thin, I think. I don't know how -- I don't have the ability to assess that and the significance of it, empirically. The thing I wonder, therefore, you said this is common in antitrust? to be bought off, is able to set settle for something JUSTICE BREYER: Well, that just seems --Official JUSTICE KENNEDY: Right. I mean days, I'm -- I'm not up to everything in the Official And what they seem to say is, Judge, pay I know there's a rule of reason, and I know cases that Justice Souter mentioned in California field, but I know there's an existence of something called a per se rule, let's price fix it. there's a sort of vague area that sometimes in some Dental, there is something slightly in between, which as I saw those cases, they're very much like price fixing or -- or agreements not to enter. attention to the department when it says that these are very often can be anticompetitive, and ask the defendant why he's doing it. I mean, is that what you want us to say? It didn't seem as if in your briefs as if you were. Either I don't mean to be pejorative, but it's rigid -- a whole set of complex per se burden of proof rules that I have never seen in other antitrust cases, I -- my question is, when I say I've never seen anything like this before in will show, oh, no, I'm out of date. recognized such a thing as the quick look approach, but I think even though the case didn't use the term "quick terms of procedure, I want you to refer me to a case that you were asking us to produce some kind of structure –- MR. STEWART: Well, the -- the Court has look," I don't believe it did, NCAA v. Regents of Official what -- MR. STEWART: I'll need to look back and see JUSTICE BREYER: Well, if there are few or one I'm most familiar with. JUSTICE BREYER: Is there any other? Are JUSTICE BREYER: And are there others? MR. STEWART: Well, that's the -- that's the University of Oklahoma is probably the best example, where the -- you familiar with any other? Because I want to be sure I read all of them. none, then I would say, why isn't the government satisfied with an opinion of this Court that says, yes, there can be serious anticompetitive effects. Yes, sometimes there are business justifications, so Judge, keep that in mind. Ask him why he has this agreement, ask him what his justification is, and see if there's a less restrictive alternative. with advice from the attorneys. courts without guidance as to -- JUSTICE BREYER: Without guidance? MR. STEWART: -- without guidance as to what In other words, it's up to the district court, as in many complex cases, to structure their case MR. STEWART: I think that would leave Official about that. JUSTICE BREYER: The same thing is factors would be appropriate -- appropriate as is appropriate in any antitrust case. Are there anticompetitive effects? I have briefs here that explain very clearly what you said in a sentence. It may be that they're simply dividing the monopoly profit. I understand that -- you know, I can take that in and so can every judge in the country. And what's complicated And then I have some very nice dark green briefs that clearly say, four instances, maybe five, where there would be offsetting justifications. I think they can get that, too. MR. STEWART: Well, certainly our proposed approach accounts for that. It provides -- it provides really two different forms of rebuttal. First our approach says, this is on its face an agreement not to compete, the generic has agreed to stay out of the market for a defined period of time, and the payment gives rise to an inference that the agree -- that the delay that the generic has agreed to is longer than the period that would otherwise reflect its best assessment of its likelihood of -- of success in the lawsuit. But then we say, there are basically two Official And then second, we're at least accepting different types of ways in which the presumption could be rebutted. First, the parties can show that the payment was not in consideration for delay, that there was some other commensurate value transferred, and the payment -- and that arrangement would have been entered into even without the larger settlement. the possibility that brand names and generics could come in and say, even though our payment was for delay, even though we can't identify anything else that the payment could have been consideration for, it's still, quote, "competitive" under -- JUSTICE BREYER: And they mention at least two others. The first one they mention is because the person's already in the market thinks that the next year or two or three years is worth $ million a year, and the person who's suing thinks it's worth million a year. And so he says, hey, I have a great idea, I'll give him the million and keep the . And -- and what's going on. that it's very hard to break into a market. So for the new generic to come in, he's thinking, giving me two that, I don't see why that's anticompetitive if that's And the second instance they bring up is years isn't worth much because I'll spend a lot of Official can start up a distribution system. The second seems The problem of deciding whether other money, it's very hard for me to do it. But the defendant -- the defendant who wants this patent kept intact says, I will not only let -- I'll let you in a year earlier and I'll give you enough money so that you procompetitive, the first, neutral. matters are or are not really payments for something else, a true nightmare when you start talking about five drugs and different distribution systems and the matter of whether you're paying for litigation costs, a matter of great debate for the judge. Okay, that's the arguments that they make. Go ahead. to the extent that these inquiries are difficult, they're difficult only by -- because the brand names and the generics have made them difficult by tacking on additional transactions to their settlement proposal. And to take an analogy, there are government ethics rules that say that -- what are called prohibited sources. Basically, people who have business before the department can't give me gifts as a government employee. Now, obviously, it would be absurd to have a rule that said a prohibited source couldn't give me a Rolex watch, MR. STEWART: Let me say a couple of things about the administrative nightmare. The first is that Official And certainly, Federal employees couldn't And everybody understands that once you go down that route, occasionally, you will have hard cases bring the -- the ethics office to its knees by engaging in such a proliferation of these side deals that the ethics office decided it's not worth it. but could sell me a Rolex watch for a dollar. And so the ethics rules treat as a gift an exchange for value in which fair market value is not paid. in which people could legitimately agree, was this a legitimate arm's length exchange or was it a concealed gift? But the prospect of those difficult cases doesn't mean that we get rid of a gift ban altogether. questions. Respondents would say that even if the agreement provides for delayed generic entry until the date the patent expires, and even if the only other term of the agreement is the brand name pays the generic a lot of money, that that would be a legitimate agreement because the restriction would apply to arguably patented drugs and it wouldn't extend beyond the date of patent expiration. The second thing is that Respondent's approach would apply even when there are no hard I guess the -- the other thing I would say about the way in which these payments can facilitate Official earliest we'll let you in and the generic said beginning parties to agree on an entry date between and . The brand name is never going to say, well, settlement really shows their anticompetitive potential. That is, suppose that the parties were negotiating for a compromise date of entry, but they couldn't agree. The -- the brand name said beginning of is the of is the latest date that we would accept. Now, the Respondents use the term "bridge the gap," but there's obviously no way that a payment from the brand name to the generic could enable the I would insist on holding out until , but if I'm going to pay you a whole lot of money, then I'll let you in earlier and accept a -- a diminution of your profits. The brand name is going to say, if I pay you money, I'm going to insist on deferring entry even later than the date that would otherwise be my preferred compromise. of a picking of a point between the dates that the parties would otherwise insist on. It is going -- it is very likely to cause the parties to agree to an entry date that's even later than the one the brand name would So the natural effect of these payments is not to facilitate a -- a bridging the gap in the sense otherwise find acceptable. Official MR. STEWART: Not -- not price fixing, but it's -- it's an agreement not to compete. That is, the JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Mr. Stewart, can we go back to Justice Breyer's question -- initial question. It's rare that we find a per se antitrust violation. Most situations we put it into rule of reason. You seem to be arguing that this is price fixing, a reverse payment like price fixing so that it has to fall into something greater than the rule of reason. parties are not agreeing as to the prices they will charge. The generic is agreeing to stay off the market first. But that would be treated as per se -- line because you're creating all -- I think that's what Justice Breyer was saying. I mean, for -- for example, I have difficult under -- understanding why the mere existence of a reverse payment is presumptively gives -- It would seem to me that you’d have to bear the burden -- the burden of proving that the payment for services or the value given was too high. I don't know why it has to shift to the other side. MR. STEWART: Now, if you wanted to tweak JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But why is the rule of reason so bad? As an -- and that's really my bottom changes the burden from the Plaintiff. Official JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So answer the more Plaintiff would bear the burden of showing that this was fundamental question, why is the rule of reason so bad? MR. STEWART: The rule -- I mean, it's bad the theory in that way and to say that in cases where there is not just a payment and an agreement on the date of market entry, but there is additional consideration exchanged beside, if you wanted to say that the not a fair exchange for value. That -- that's not something we would agree with, but that would be a fairly minor tweak to our theory. for reasons both of administrability and it's bad conceptually. The reason it's bad for reasons of administrability is that -- at least I take what you are proposing to be that the antitrust court would consider all the factors that might bear on the assessment of the agreement, that those would include presumably the strength of the patent claim, the subjective -- JUSTICE BREYER: No. No. I mean, Professor Areeda, who is at least in my mind a minor deity in the matter, in this area, if not major, he explains it. He says don't try for more precision than you can get. The quality of proof required should vary with the circumstances. Do you know how long it took -- I mean, and Official probably minutes or less. And judges can do that. So you say to the judge, Judge, this is So -- so you shape the case as -- and this is what goes -- used to go on for years. You shape I -- of course, I -- I know a little bit of antitrust. But I mean, I think -- do you know how long it takes to take in your basic argument that these sometimes can be a division of profit, monopoly profit? It takes what's relevant here. And there's a rule of evidence, don't waste the jury's time. the case in light of the considerations that are actually relevant, useful, and provable in respect to that case. And district judges, that's their job. So -- so what -- I'm not saying you lose the case. there's no violation, okay? worried about creating some kind of administrative monster. and the Court did this in NCAA, for example, where it said that the agreement it was looking at, which dealt with the allegation of -- of -- allocation of rights to televised football games was essentially a limitation on output, and the Court said those are presumptively They didn't side with the Eleventh Circuit. They said I've got your point on that. But -- but I'm MR. STEWART: It's not atypical -- I mean -- Official The Court didn't say there was long Nevertheless, because competitive sports by football. It just said output limitations have been unlawful. Long experience in the market has shown that they are suspect. experience in the market for television rights to established as disfavored. nature require a degree of cooperation between the people who compete against each other -- to establish the rules of the game and so forth -- we will look to see whether the parties have identified -- whether the defendants have identified anything about their specific industry that would justify our decision not to apply the usual presumption, and it concluded that there was nothing there. And we're really asking the Court to take the same approach here. We're saying payments not to compete are generally disfavored. The parties can -- when you have a Hatch-Waxman settlement, in which money is passing from the brand name to the generic, it's an unusual settlement to begin with because there's no way that the suit could have culminated in the generic receiving a money judgment. And therefore, we'll -- we'll look upon this with suspicion, but we'll give the parties adequate Official CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, MR. WEINBERGER: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it please the Court: I'd like to first respond to a question that Mr. Stewart. Mr. Weinberger? ORAL ARGUMENT OF JEFFREY I. WEINBERGER ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTS If I may, I'd like to reserve the balance of opportunities to -- to rebut. my time. was asked of my friend by Justice Scalia a few minutes ago. He was asked if there are any cases in which the Court has ever found a restraint outside the scope of question is no. violations of the antitrust laws based on a patent-based restraint do so because the object of the agreement, the restraint that's being achieved in the agreement, is beyond the scope that could be legitimately achieved with a patent. downstream the resale prices of -- of products that you cannot do simply by exercising your patent. Or it's an the patent to be unlawful, and the answer to that That -- all of the cases that have found For example, it's an attempt to control Official arguing is that in fact a settlement of an infringement MR. WEINBERGER: No, Justice Sotomayor, I'm don't evaluate from the anti -- the perspective of the Meaning there is no presumption of infringement. MR. WEINBERGER: That's correct. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: And so what you're Every -- every case in which -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Why isn't this that? attempt to control the sale of unpatented products that go beyond what a patent can protect. There's no presumption that the item that someone else is going to sell necessarily infringes. action is now creating that presumption. not arguing that. But -- but I do want to say that I think our patent system depends upon the notion that you antitrust laws a patent restraint based upon whether you could have proved in a litigation that that patent -- that the patent was infringed. has or would be infringement by the product that has voluntarily decided not to pursue its rights. not -- you're not accepting infringement. What you're JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I don't know, but I don't know why we would be required to accept that there MR. WEINBERGER: I think you're doing is recognizing there's a reasonable basis to Official JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But there, you know assert the patent, a bona fide, reasonable dispute, and the parties have the ability to settle the dispute. Just as if the party -- if someone was entering into a license agreement with -- with someone who had a product that they claimed did not infringe the patent, they sat down, negotiated a license and resolved it -- that they're not sharing the profits. MR. WEINBERGER: Yes. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Meaning there you know that a -- a product's been licensed and the -- that's normal. The infringer is now paying the other side money to sell that product. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: A reverse payment suggests something different, that they're sharing profits. I don't know what else you can conclude. MR. WEINBERGER: Many license -- I don't think that's correct, and that's because many license disputes are, in fact, resolved by the -- the alleged infringer exiting the market for a period of time, or agreeing to stay off until a certain time. MR. WEINBERGER: But, Justice Sotomayor, many other -- Official And then the license -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But not many for reverse Now, anybody could argue that that royalty, if it were higher, could result in an earlier entry. MR. WEINBERGER: Yes, they are because --because, for example, it could be a license agreement payments. where the infringer agrees to stay off the market for X number of years, and when it comes on it pays a certain royalty. There's always an argument to be made with any delayed entry situation that monopoly profits are shared. That's just -- just inherent in the nature of it. anyone is agreeing to a delayed entry, and there's any other value that's being exchanged in that situation, that in effect in economic terms is a payment for delayed entry. There's no difference. not -- their point is not it's per se unlawful. What they want is they want to cut some kind of line between a per se rule and the kitchen sink. And if you look at the brief supporting you, it is the kitchen sink. You have economists attacking the patent system or praising And if you take the FTC's argument to its full force, it would mean that any situation where JUSTICE BREYER: Yes. But there, it's Official So what's your idea? MR. WEINBERGER: I -- I've obviously given a it, da, da, da, and here and there and the other. They don't want the kitchen sink. Now, suppose I don't want the kitchen sink, but I have a hard time saying what the per se rule is. lot of thought to whether there is any kind of an intermediary test that works and I don't believe there is. Let me explain why. Federal Circuit concluded in applying the rule of reason test, and saying the first condition of such a test has anticompetitive effects. very good illustrations of what I'm talking about. Those were the Tamoxifen and Cipro cases, where the First, you can't really measure whether there were any anticompetitive effects from such a settlement agreement without determining what would have happened if the case hadn't settled and it would have been litigated. And if the patentee had won the litigation, then there would be no anticompetitive effects. parties agreed to so-called reverse payment settlements That's what the Second Circuit and the not been met because there's no demonstration of And the cases -- both of those cases are Official JUSTICE KENNEDY: Would it -- would it help would have made, but what the generic company would have MR. WEINBERGER: Well, you really don't know JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, you -- you have to make an extrapolation, yes. that FTC would say are basically per se lawful. if you were -- were thinking about rules and caps, to consider not what the branded company would have -- lost? And -- and use the latter as the limit? unless you can assume when they could have entered -- MR. WEINBERGER: Well, because it all depends on what would have happened in the patent litigation. So that you can't really tell whether there's any anticompetitive effect. though, its -- everybody's profits are lower. And you can gear it to just what the -- what the generic would have made. MR. WEINBERGER: They're -- they're lower than they would be under some other situation, but --generic losing, there's really no risk for the generic here, which is one of the reasons you see these settlements, that in this industry --I should also say with respect to the JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, if the generic wins, but the patent gave the patent holder the legal right to Official JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Weinberger, can I just lawsuit and the generic sends the brand name MR. WEINBERGER: Certainly. JUSTICE KAGAN: Suppose you had a -- a exclude. And so unless there's a reason, there's some reason to believe that it couldn't reasonably assert that patent, it's entitled to monopoly profits for the whole duration of the patent. understand what you're saying, and maybe do it through a hypothetical. manufacturer an e-mail and the e-mail says, we have this lawsuit, I think I have about a percent chance of winning. it be a good thing if you just gave me million? Alright? And then the brand name sends an e-mail back, says -- you know, that seems like a pretty good idea, so I'll give you million. that in -- in any given situation -- JUSTICE KAGAN: Is that fine? MR. WEINBERGER: I -- I think that if the -- If I win, I take your -- your monopoly profits down from million to $ million. Wouldn't Now, as I understand it, your argument is, I mean, that's just fine. That's hunky dory. MR. WEINBERGER: Well, what I'm saying is Official out there. made. settlement like that, if it's in good faith. if it's a single situation and the evidence is that there's a reasonable basis to assert that patent and in truth, the patent had what you say is a / chance of prevailing, then I think that there could be a JUSTICE KAGAN: Even though -- but what does that mean in good faith? It's clear what's going on here is that they're splitting monopoly profits and the person who's going to be injured are all the consumers MR. WEINBERGER: Any -- any situation in which there's any -- in any patent dispute in which there's a tradeoff, like the examples I mentioned before, time for value, could -- that argument could be And, in fact, if that was true, if it was true that the natural inference and the motivations of people were simply to divide these profits with no other consideration, then what you'd expect to see is that every single patent dispute, would, especially in Hatch-Waxman, would result in a settlement that just pays the generic until the end of the patent because after all, the market would be --think if we give you the rule that you're suggesting we JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, Mr. Weinberger, I Official consumers. give you, that is going to be the outcome because this is going to be the incentive of both the generic and the brand name manufacturer in every single case is to split monopoly profits in this way to the detriment of all MR. WEINBERGER: Let me address that, Your Honor. I don't think that's realistic at all because -- and let's take this industry specifically, that the ability to challenge a patent in this industry is lower All they have to do is -- is file an ANDA, which is roughly , to $ million for these size drugs, that's not a lot, and certify it. And the FTC's own studies have shown that it takes a very small chance of winning, something like percent for a drug over $ billion to justify a generic suing a brand name company. than any industry that I can think of, and that's because a generic is given the right to certify against the patent and then basically challenge the patent without having actually developed the product, gotten a marketing force, gotten a factory, putting the product on sale and taking the risk that everyone else who challenges a patent has to take. And what happens -- so what happens in these cases -- Official JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Is that in all cases or MR. WEINBERGER: It's Hatch-Waxman cases. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Because it does skew the MR. WEINBERGER: Yes. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: You know, the Second of the patent, that there was a troubling dynamic in what you're arguing, which is that the less sound the patent, the more you're going to hurt consumers because those are the cases where the payoff, the sharing of profits is the greatest inducement for the patent holder. just Hatch-Waxman cases? It's because of -- dynamics a lot. Circuit recognized, even though it accepted your scope because the reality of the situation is with so many potential challengers to the patent, all they have to do is file an ANDA, there are generic companies in this industry, that if you try to adopt that strategy of recognized that, but then they said further -- on further reflection, on further consideration of this, we are not troubled by it. And one of the reasons they were not troubled, it's what I was trying to answer Justice Kagan about, is paying the profits of a generic, there's going to be a MR. WEINBERGER: The Second Circuit Official MR. WEINBERGER: That's clearly not correct either by logic or by reference to actual experience. It's true that the first filer is given a greater incentive, but these products can last for or years. JUSTICE KAGAN: But the -- the huge And once the -day first filer is bought JUSTICE BREYER: Okay. Suppose -- JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, I don't think that long line of -- that's true, Mr. Weinberger, and it's because of something that Justice Scalia suggested, that there's a kind of glitch in Hatch-Waxman. And the glitch is that the days goes to the first filer. off, nobody else has the incentive to do this. MR. WEINBERGER: Experience doesn't show that because if you look at Hatch-Waxman litigation, we've cited in -- in the red brief and it's been discussed by the antitrust economists and the Generic Pharmaceutical Association in their amicus brief, that percentage of the profits is done in the exclusivity period. I mean, it's true that it can go on for a long time, but you're making dribs and drabs of money for a long time. Where you're really making your money is in the days. Official You have , , as many as companies JUSTICE KENNEDY: What -- what do we look at to verify what you say? Is that -- is that all in the many of these Hatch-Waxman cases involve multiple filers. challenging these patents, all of -- one of whom are not the first filer. So there -- there must be an incentive for them to do this, and -- and they are. So I think experience says that that kind of extreme view of incentives is not really true. briefs? Solvay brief. I don't have the page -- days is crucial, it allows you to go to the doctors, to give them the name of your generic equivalent, et cetera, and that that's a big advantage. an incentive for the first six months, I don't debate that, but after that, the market opens up. MR. WEINBERGER: It's a big advantage --JUSTICE KENNEDY: And now, you're -- now, Justice Kagan's question might indicate, that the you're indicating that it isn't. MR. WEINBERGER: It's a big advantage. It's MR. WEINBERGER: Yes, it's in the -- in the JUSTICE KENNEDY: Because I had thought, as JUSTICE BREYER: Okay. Suppose -- this Official Four, there are several possible sounds like an argument, a discussion that you’d have in the district court, so -- so why -- what's your reaction to this. Say A, sometimes these settlements can be very anticompetitive, dividing monopoly profit. In deciding whether anticompetitive outweighs business practices without less restrictive alternatives, judge, you may take that into account. Two, do not take into account the strength of a patent. Three, do not try to relitigate the patent. justifications, ones I listed before out of the briefs, litigation costs -- the other products, different assessments of -- of value. Five, there could be, in fact, no anticompetitive effect here because of what you just said now in response to Justice Kennedy and Justice Kagan, but there could be. We don't know. Okay? So start with where we were. Could be anticompetitive. Give the defense a chance to go through five, one through five, and if they convince you there is a six, we're not saying there isn't, but we can't think of one on the briefs, let them have the sixth, too. Okay? Now, judge, weigh and decide. That's what we do. So we've structured it somewhat to keep the kitchen sink out on the basis of the briefs given to us. What's wrong with that? Official MR. WEINBERGER: Well, I think the first JUSTICE SCALIA: You can't -- you can't MR. WEINBERGER: I -- I believe that the MR. WEINBERGER: JUSTICE SCALIA: the conclusion? That's right. Isn't that crucial to -- to problem with it is that it's -- it's very unpredictable. It's really hard to figure out how that all gets sorted out, and the parties who are sitting down to do a settlement need, I feel, much clearer guidance -- possibly figure it out, can you, without assessing the strength of the patent? only thing that brought -- is -- is to leave -- leave out the -- the elephant in the room. Justice Scalia. I don't think that an alternative fashioned that would -- that would make sense is one based on strength of the patent. But there are so many reasons that that is an undesirable result that I -- I don't think it's the And to say you can consider every other factor other than the strength of the patent test -- the only alternative test that could be JUSTICE SCALIA: MR. WEINBERGER: I agree with that, way this Court should go. Official I mean, it doesn't deprive either side of the ability to finish the litigation if they want to. MR. WEINBERGER: Let's say -- I wouldn't JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: For whom? And -- and -- you know, the government is basically saying, we really don't want reverse payments, period. We want people to settle this the way they should settle it, which is on the strength of the patent. And that means settling it simply by either paying a royalty for use or settling as most cases do, on an early entry alone, so there's no sharing of -- of -- of profits. What's so bad about that? concede that most cases settle like that. But let's -- let's accept that and take the case of a -- of a strong it has -- you evaluate the strength of the patent and you conclude that it has or good years remaining. Now, you have a generic who is -- or many generics who have sued with no risk or minimal risk in Hatch-Waxman, and their response is, why would I -- why would I drop this lawsuit to get an entry date in or ? That doesn't meet my business needs, I have shareholders, I have investors, I have to run a business, and I'm going to keep on litigating unless you patent or a patent with a long term. Let's say give me something of value. Official it -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, in the normal course, if the patent's really strong, if you get a year MR. KATZ: But, first of all -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- for the very strong So that's what these agreements are about. They're saying, well, what other -- remember, this is not just a cash payment. There are all -- or two earlier entry, that has an inherent value, and that's what you'll pay for is what the government is saying. That will be the determination the two parties will make, which is at what point is earlier entry worth patent holder. overconfident. They both think they are going to win. So it's sometimes very hard to come to a consensus where entry date is the only bargaining chip available. evidence would be for that. I don't think -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, we do know that these reverse payments, except for recent times when most settlements and say that is the vast majority. MR. WEINBERGER: I don't know where the MR. WEINBERGER: But first of all, parties often don't agree on the merits. Parties tend to be JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, they pointed to people figured out they were so valuable, were the Official JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: They have been MR. WEINBERGER: Actually, we have ten years exception, not the rule. of experience since the circuit courts first began applying scope-of-the-patent tests to these settlements since . So we have a pretty good window as to what would happen. increasing in number, not decreasing. MR. WEINBERGER: No, I think they have been actually very steady. They are roughly between and percent, pretty much constant and you don't really see any huge blips depending on what a particular court is ruling. everybody's going to run out and do this, you would have thought that after the first Eleventh Circuit ruling, after the Federal Circuit ruling, after the Second Circuit ruling, after second Eleventh Circuit ruling, haven't seen that. as a percentage of the total settlements they are very steady. They are pretty much the same. that there would be huge increases in this, but we If the FTC's kind of the-sky-is-going-to-fall approach is right, that Some of the numbers increased last year, but JUSTICE GINSBURG: What about the Official infringement suit. If they won the patent infringement suit, MR. WEINBERGER: Justice Ginsburg, first of all, every settlement agreement involving one of these cases must be filed with the FTC. They have hundreds of them. And they haven't pointed to a single example where that's the case. consideration that seems to be driving the government? That is, the generic is getting an offer that they would never get on the street. I mean, they are being paid much more than they would get if they won the patent then they can sell their generic in competition with the brand. But under this agreement they get more than they would get by winning the lawsuit. that hypothetical is correct. That's what was my concern, too. What the brand company can lose is much greater than what the generic can make. So why don't you just put a cap on what the generic can make and then we won't have a real concern with the restraint of trade, or we'll have a lesser concern. I think that's the thrust of Justice Ginsburg's question and it's my concern as well. JUSTICE KAGAN: But it's just an economic -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, suppose -- suppose MR. WEINBERGER: Yes, and I want to make Official easily challenge these patents without actually having a clear that I don't think that could happen because if a brand name company adopted that as a strategy to protect its patent, it would -- it would be held up. It would be held up by the many generic companies that could manufactured product, without putting it on sale, et cetera. So I think that the antitrust rule should not be fashioned to deal with a case on the extreme, JUSTICE GINSBURG: I thought the government was telling us that that's this case, that the -- what the generic is being offered in the way of sharing the monopoly profits is more than it could ever make if it wanted to and sold its drug. examples of that cited in their brief. It's a theory, it's a hypothetical theory, but there is no data. And which hasn't been shown to happen, which logically from an economic point of view is highly unlikely to happen. And if for some reason that starts happening empirically, then Congress -- and it is a loophole in Hatch-Waxman that is causing that, and there is really no evidence that that extreme example has happened --then Congress can deal with it, just as it dealt with the exclusivity provision. MR. WEINBERGER: Well, I don't see any Official JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, but so then the MR. WEINBERGER: Of course. I think that's question still holds. If you -- if you key your payment we have had years of experience with this case. JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, but it's not hypothetical that if the generic wins everybody -- the brand companies’ profits are going to go way, way down right away and generic profits are not going to be that great. true in many -- many patent litigations. to what the brand company will make, it's just a much higher figure, and a greater danger of unreasonable restraint. it's not -- with the number of challenges you have here, which is basically unlimited, that if you put a sign around your neck that says, paying off all generic companies their profits, whoever wants to challenge my patent come do it, there is going to be a long line of people, of companies doing it. that point that the days is not that big a difference, and that there are many generics out there. But isn't that true in every industry? You said at the MR. WEINBERGER: There is that hypothetical risk. What I'm -- I am trying to make the point that JUSTICE KENNEDY: Okay, I will grant you Official they are going to be liable for enormous damages. That's not the case under Hatch-Waxman. All outset, oh, well, now in the drug industry there are a lot of people ready to pounce in. Isn't that true in any industry? MR. WEINBERGER: It is true and that's why it doesn't happen. It's -- it's more true here because it's much easier to challenge a patent. So in any other industry a potential challenger has to make a major investment in a product, has to get it manufactured, has to put it on sale, and then litigate. And if they lose, they need to do is file an ANDA. They have nothing at risk. If they lose, they haven't lost any damages. They just walk away. So there is an enormous difference explains the particular form of some of these settlements and why they happen. argument that there is an economic reality in Hatch-Waxman that would require us not to apply any rule we choose or accept here to other situations, only here. That's the argument that you're creating for me, that there's a different economic reality here that requires a different rule. in the risks between Hatch-Waxman and other cases that MR. WEINBERGER: Justice Sotomayor, I think JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I see that as an Official MR. WEINBERGER: I don't believe there is MR. WEINBERGER: Justice Sotomayor, I don't JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: And any settlement in JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Oh, but it does because these cases deprives consumers of the potential of having the benefit of an earlier entry. the economic reality cuts the other way. It doesn't cut in favor of making a rule that makes these more difficult. What I'm saying is that --in Hatch-Waxman Congress decided that there was a benefit for generics entering without suffering a potential loss to enter the market more quickly. think the legislation -- anything in Hatch-Waxman that supports the idea that the purpose was to provide for generic entry prior to patent expiration. What the structure is designed to do is encourage challenges because -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Exactly, and what you are doing with permitting settlements of this kind is anything in Hatch-Waxman that suggests, in any way, that settlements or -- should be discouraged or that cases should be mandated to proceed to judgment or that all not permitting the process to go to conclusion. MR. WEINBERGER: I don't think there is have to be litigated. enormously. MR. WEINBERGER: It's encouraging challenges infringement suits. and it has produced many challenges. And I can say --can I say that with years of the application of the scope-of-the-patent rule, there is no particular problem with Hatch-Waxman. It's working very well. The amount -- the number of drugs that have now gone generic from just ten years ago to today has increased JUSTICE BREYER: So why does it help you to say, if the Court says or the FTC says when you get one of these suits you can settle it by letting them in, but you can't pay them money. That that will help to stop strike suits if it costs them nothing to get in. They have to really want to enter or they won't bring lawsuits. So why does that hurt you? you raise a point that the generic -- in some of the amicus briefs, some of the generic parties have talked about, which is that their ability to challenge these cases depends on their not having to litigate every one of them to conclusion. And that's not bad because most patent cases settle. Most -- most of these disputes settle. And if our system was one in which every case Official JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: It's encouraging MR. WEINBERGER: Well, I actually think that Official So -- so what I think the statute mandates challenge, and should have strong incentive to kind of a business settlement, that is going to mean that fewer generics are going to challenge these patents and that is contrary to the purpose of the Hatch-Waxman Act. had to be litigated fully to judgment, it -- we would be unable to cope with that. or contemplates is that generics should be able to challenge, but that doesn't mean that they should be required to litigate to conclusion. And if settlement is made more difficult, so that different perceptions or different business objectives can't be bridged with some scientists and attorneys, you need investment bankers. And you then need marketers because the cost of these drugs can be hundreds of millions. Is there anything in the record that shows the development cost of this drug? MR. WEINBERGER: This particular drug, I don't know. I mean, there are lots of studies on how much average drugs cost, and that figure is over a billion dollars. JUSTICE KENNEDY: I think it's correct that to develop a new drug sometimes you need not just JUSTICE KENNEDY: It can be a billion. MR. WEINBERGER: Easily a billion dollars. (b)() motion on a motion to dismiss, so none of that Official JUSTICE KENNEDY: Anything in this case? MR. WEINBERGER: This particular drug -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: Anything in the record? MR. WEINBERGER: No, because we are on a JUSTICE KAGAN: I'm sorry. MR. WEINBERGER: But I was just going to say doesn't even begin to tell the picture because for every drug that succeeds, there are at least that fail, and all the costs that are involved in the drugs that fail have to be covered with the one drug that succeeds. JUSTICE KAGAN: Could I just make sure I was really developed, but -- that the -- of course, any given drug development cost filer gets it, if I buy off -- if I'm a brand name manufacturer and I buy off the first filer with one of these reverse payments, you're suggesting that that's not going to do me much good because they're all going line of people, it's not just that they don't get the -day period, it's like even if one of those people wins, the person whom I've paid off is going to get the -day exclusivity period, isn't that right? understand the way the -day period worked? The first to be -- there's going to be a long line. And that long MR. WEINBERGER: Not completely. First of Official JUSTICE KAGAN: But if it's not waived by get it so my incentives go down. It's that my MR. WEINBERGER: This was the exact problem that Congress addressed in , when it amended all, it depends on the -- the agreement. For example, in this case, that -day exclusivity was waived. the parties, in other words, it's not just like I don't competitor gets it. So why in the world am I standing in line to -- to challenge this if my competitor is going to get the exclusive period? Hatch-Waxman and changed the exclusivity requirements. So the way the law now reads is that subsequent generics, subsequent filers can trigger that -day exclusivity by continuing to litigate. So if the first they're litigating, they can force that period to start running and then they can come in right after. So it is not correct that you can tie up the first filer in settlement and prevent everybody else from entering. Circuit, Federal circuit in the Second, applying the scope of the patent rule recognized that if the agreement creates a bottleneck to other filers that goes beyond what the statutory exclusivity provides, where they agree not to give up their exclusivity or agree to filer settles and these other folks are in line and And even before that amendment, the Eleventh Official other filers. So I think that problem's been addressed by Congress can do that. That they -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: Well, what was the change retain it, then that's beyond the scope of the patent. Because you can't achieve that kind of a restraint simply -- with a patent, you -- you're using the agreement to expand upon your patent rights to block Congress. And if somebody feels that solution's not perfect and they want to make it even easier for subsequent filers to come in, then I submit that that was made? Justice Ginsburg, is that -- there were a number of changes, but the one that's relevant here is that if a -- if a subsequent filer -- strike that. You can trigger the exclusivity beginning to run by getting the judgment. So in the past, if a first filer settled and they just didn't do anything -- may I anything, that would prevent other generics from coming to market. But now anybody else who's litigating this CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Yes, certainly. MR. WEINBERGER: And they just didn't do patent, if they go ahead and win their case, then MR. WEINBERGER: The change that was made, finish the -- Official MR. WEINBERGER: Thank you, Your Honor. REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF MALCOLM L. STEWART ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER MR. STEWART: Thank you. Mr. Weinberger argued that in order to that -- that triggers the first filer's rights and if they don't exercise that -- those rights within days, they're gone, they're forfeited. So that's the change. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel. MR. WEINBERGER: Thank you. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Mr. Stewart, you have five minutes remaining. determine whether a settlement of this sort has anticompetitive effects, we would have to know how the fundamental principle of antitrust law that particular conduct can be legal or illegal, depending on the deliberative process that led up to it. product because it's made the assessment that this will maximize profits in a competitive environment, that decision is almost immune from antitrust scrutiny. But if the business charges the same price for the same And to put that in concrete terms, if a business charges a particular price for a particular lawsuit would have turned out, but it's perhaps the most product in the same market because it's agreed with its Official The second thing is, Mr. Weinberger said filers will attempt to challenge the brand name even after the first filer has been bought off. I think we -- we disagree that it's as easy as he would say it is, but we'll concede it happens occasionally. But the fact that particular anticompetitive conduct doesn't always work doesn't make it lawful. competitor that it will charge that price, that's a per se antitrust violation. So it's not at all anomalous to say that this type of agreement can be deemed anticompetitive, even though the same result, namely, exclusion of the generic from the market might have been able to be obtained by other means. there are instances in which second and successive It could often happen that two firms were thinking about entering into a price-fixing agreement, for instance, but thought to themselves, if we do that, there's a third competitor in the market who will be unprofitable. And it might happen sometimes that two firms try to proceed with a price-fixing conspiracy, but they're thwarted because of the unexpected competition from a third firm. able to undersell us, and this would make our agreement CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, I thought Mr. Official MR. STEWART: I mean, first, there certainly another firm out there in the abstract that -- that Weinberger's point was that this is always going to happen because it's very easy -- as he said, you put a sign on your neck saying, generics line up to get your payment. That seems quite different than saying there's might want to enter into a similar market sharing arrangement. This is a very different system. is no evidence suggesting that it has happened often, the -- the brand name is attempting to purchase is protection from the possibility that it will have its competitive advantage. If a brand name thinks in a particular instance there is somebody else who's going to expose it to -- me to that risk, the -- the payment wouldn't be expected to be made. So at least --although there is evidence that it has happened. But if the brand name perceived on a systemic basis that the likely result of paying off one competitor was that another competitor would step in and couldn't be bought off would litigate the suit to judgment, there would be no incentive to make the reverse payment in the first place. That is, in making the reverse payment, what patent invalidated, and it will suffer a large JUSTICE KAGAN: And what's your Official MR. STEWART: I think for the reasons understanding of why there would not be a long line in some cases or in many cases? that -- that your question suggested, that there is the -day exclusivity period and leaving aside the cases in which that is waived, subsequent manufacturers would realize not only that they wouldn't get that period of heightened profits themselves, but they would have to wait in line for others, and they might focus their attention on other patents that were perceived to be weak as to which they could hope to -- to get the -day exclusivity contract. show what I think Justice Kennedy asked -- you know, how opposed to what happens after that? majority, I don't have a percentage figure. And the reason, as I indicated earlier, was that during the competitors. Basically, a biopoly arrangement. And my understanding is that the generics would usually charge around to percent of the brand name's price during that period. And after there is full competition, the much of one's profits comes from the -day period as -day exclusivity period, you have only two JUSTICE KAGAN: And is there anything to MR. STEWART: I know it is the great price would drop to a fraction of that. Official The next thing I would say is that our internally, , is the least I will accept. If they system encourages settlement, but not to the nth degree. And so for instance, if you had two -- two firms fighting over a million dollars and each firm decided stuck to their guns, the case couldn't be settled. Now, if the public could be made to kick in an additional ,, then each of the firms could get its , and walk away content. But we don't pursue the policy in favor of settlement to that degree. But that's essentially what's happening here. The -- the way these payments facilitate settlement is by inducing the generics to agree to a later entry date by increasing the total pool of profits that are available to the two firms combined and thereby maximizing the likelihood that each firm will find its own share of the profit satisfactory. And the last thing I would say is I think everyone who comes to this issue recognized that there is a conundrum. Our natural instinct is to compare the settlement to the expected outcome of litigation. But everyone also recognizes that it just isn't feasible to try the patent suit. And, therefore, our approach focuses on whether the competitive process has been preserved. Official CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel, The case is submitted. (Whereupon, at : p.m., the case in the above-entitled matter was submitted.) counsel. A ability : : : : : : able : : : : : : : :, above-entitled : : abstract : absurd : accept : : :, : : : : acceptable : accepted : accepting : account :, : :, accounts : achieve : achieved : : : act : : :, : Actavis : : acting :, action : actual : : : : additional : : : address : addressed : : adequate : administrabili... :, administrative : : OfficialOfficial adopt : : : :, APPEARAN... alternatives : :assessmentsadopted : advantage : altogether : :, : amended : : advice : advocated : : ago : : agree : : amendment : amendments : : amicus : : : amount : : : : : :,, : : : :, analogy : : ample : : : application : apply :, Association:: : applying : : : :assume :attacking :approach : attempt ::, : : : : : :attempted :attemptingappropriate :,, approval : : area : : attention :attorneys ::::atypical :authorized :available ::average :a.m : :Bback : ::bad : ::,,: :balance :ban :bankers :bargaining:barriers :based :: :basic :basically :: :: :: :basis : :: :bear : ::began :agreed : :, : : agreeing : ANDA : : : Areeda : AndroGel : arguably : : : : agreement : argue : :, : and/or : Angeles : argued : : anomalous : arguing :answer : : : : :, : : :, : : :, : :, : : : :, : : : :,, agreements : : : agrees : : ahead : : AL : allegation : : : alleged : allocation : allow : allowed : allows : Alright : alternative anti : anticompetitive : : : : : :, : : :,,, : :, antitrust : : :, : :,, :, : : : : : : : : : : :, : anybody : : appear : :, :argument ::,, :,: ::, :: ::, :arguments:arm's :arrangement: ::aside :asked :,:asking :: :assert : ::assess : :assessing :assessment :: : :,,, : : : : : : : : Breyer's : bridge : bridged : bridging : brief : : : :, : : briefs : : :, : :,, : bring : : : brings : brought : burden : :,, : business : : : : :, :, : : beginning : : : behalf :, :,, : : : believe : :, : : : : : believed : benefit :, best : : better : beyond : : : : : : big :,, : billion : :,, biopoly : bit : : blips : block : bona : bottleneck : bottom : bought : : : : brand :, : :, : : : : :,,, : : :, : : :, : :, : : :,, : branded : break : Breyer : Official Chief :, : : : charges : changed : changes : charge : : : : : : : : : : :, cases : : : : :,, : :, : :, :,, : :,, chip : : : choice : :, : : :, choose : :, : Cipro : :, cash : cause : causing : certain : : : :, : : circuit : : : : : :, : company :, : : : : compare : compete :, :, : : : : :, competition : : : : :,, : : : : :, competitive :, : :,,, :, : : : : : : : circumstance : circumstances : cited : : claim : claimed : clear : : clearer : clearly :, : collectively : combined : come :, : : : : comes : : : : coming : commensurate : : Commission : common : companies competitor : : : :, :, :, competitors : :, : completely complex : complicated : : : compromise : : : :, concealed : concede : : conception : conceptually : concern : :,,, conclude : : concluded : : certainly : : : : : : certify :, cetera : : : buy :, : challenge : : :, : : : : :,, : : C C : : California : : called : : cap : caps : case : : : : :, : :, : : :,,, : : : : : :, challenger : challengers : challenges : : : :, challenging : : : chance : : : : change : :, : Official : conclusion : : : : : concrete : condition : conditions : : conduct : : : : : confers : Congress : : : :, : : :, Conversely : convince : cooperation : cope : correct : : : : : : cost :,, : costs : : : : counsel : :, consensus : country : consider : couple : : da :,, damages : :, danger : dark : data : date : : :, : : : :, : :,,, : : : : dates : days : : : : : : deal :, deals : dealt : delayed : :,, deliberative : disagree : disagreement demonstration discouraged : : Dental : department : :, : : depend : depending : : depends : : : : deprive : deprives : Deputy : designed : deter : determination : : : : : discussed : discussion : disfavored : : dismiss : dispute :, :, disputes : : distinction : distribution :, district : : : divide : dividing : : : course : : : : : court :, debate : : decide : : : : : :, decided : : :, :, : : : : : : : : : deciding : decision : : : decreasing : deemed : defendant : determine : division : doctors : determining doing : : detriment : develop : developed : dollar : : : : : : developing : development : : dollars :, : dory : downstream : : : consideration :, : : : : considerations : consistent : consistently : conspiracy : constant : consumers : : : : : contemplates : content : context : continuing : contract : contrary : control :, : : conundrum : courts : : cover : covered : creates : creating : : : : crucial : : culminated : cut : : cuts : DD :: : : :, : : defendants : differences : difference : drabs : dribs : driving : drop : : : drops : different : defense : : : deferring : : : : :, drug :, defined : definition : :, :, degree : : difficult : :,, : : : : diminution : : : : : :, : :,:,deity : delay : : drugs : : : Official : : experience : : :, : : : Federal : : : : : : feel : expiration : feeling : : expires : : : explain : : : : explains : : expose : expressly : extend : : extent : extrapolation : extreme : :, e-mail :, : Fface :,:facilitate :: :fact : : : ::factor :factors ::factory :fail :,fair : : fairly : : faith :,fall :familiar :,fashioned ::favor : : FDA : : feasible :feels : fewer : fide : field : fighting : figure :,: : : figured : file : : : filed : : filer : : :,, : :, : : :,: filers : : : :,: filer's : find : : : fine :,finish : : firm : : :,firms :,:,,first : : : : : : :, : : : : :,:,, : : : :, : : : :,,:, : : : : :, : duopoly : duration : dynamic : dynamics : D.C :, E E : :, earlier : : : : :, : : earliest : early : : : earning : : : :,, encourage : evaluate : encourages : encouraging everybody : : :, endorse : enforcing : engage :, engaging : enormous : enormously : : enter : : : : : entered : : : : everybody's : : evidence : : : : :, exact : Exactly : example : : : : : : : : : : examples : : : : : :, : exception : exchange : :, : entering : : : easier : : : easily : : entirely : easy : : entitled : economic : entry : : : :, :, : exclude : :,,, : :, :, : : :, : :, exclusivity : exclusion : exclusive :, :, : : : : : effect : : effects : : : economists : exchanged : : :, : : : :, :,, : :, : exercising : exhaustion : exist : existence : : : :, : : either : : : :, elephant : Eleventh : : :, : empirically : : employee : employees : enable : encompassed environment : equivalent : : :, essentially : : :, : : establish : established : : especially : ESQ :, : exercise : exiting : expand : et : : : expect : ethics : expected : Official :, : Honor : : : : :, five : : :,, : fix : fixing : : :, focus : : : focuses : folks : football : : force : : : forces : foresee : forfeited : form : forms : forth : found : :, four : : fraction : friend : FTC : : : : : FTC's : : : full : : fully : fundamental : : further :, : G G : game : games : gap :, gather : gear : general : generally : : : generic : :,, : :, :,, : : :, : :, : : : :, : :,,, : : :,, :, : : : :,,, :, :, : : :,, : generics : : : : : : :, : : : : : getting : : gift :,, gifts : Ginsburg : : : : :, Ginsburg's : give : : :,, : : : : : : : : given : : : : : : : : gives : : : : giving : : : glitch :, go : : : : : : : : : : : : : : goes : : : going : :,,, : : :, :, :, : : : :,, : :, :,,, : : :, good : : :, : : : : : goods :, : gotten :, government : : :, : : : : government's: grant : granted : : great : : : : greater : : : : : greatest : green : guess : guidance : guns : Hhappen :: :,: :,:, : happened :: :: ::,happening: :happens :: :: hard : : :, : : : Hatch-Waxman : : : :,, :,, : : :, :, : : : :, : :, : : : : hear : heightened : held : : : : help : : : hey : high : higher : : highly : holder : : : : : holding : holds : hook : hope : : Hovenkamp's: huge : :, hundreds : : hunky : hurt : : hypothetical: : : :,Iidea : : : : :identified : :identify : illegal :illustrationsimmediately::immune :import :imposed :impress :incentive : : :: :, :, : : incentives :: : : :include : Official increased : intermediary : : increases : increasing : internally : interpretation kept : key : kick : : : :,, :, : : : : : : : : : : : : : : :,, :, :, : :, : :, :,,, :,,, :,,, : :, kind : :, :,,, : :, :, : : :, :, : :,, :, : :,, :, : : :,, know : : : : :,, : : : :,, :, : :, : : :, : :, : : : : : : : :, : : :, knees : knew : kitchen :, :, : : justification justifications : : : justify : : K: invalid : invalidated investment : : : investors : invitation : involve : involved : : : involving : issue : : item : JJEFFREY :: :job :Joblove :judge : : : ::, :, judges :,judgment :: :: : : known : LL : :, : :large ::larger :latest :Laughter :law : : ::lawful : : laws : : : : :,: :lawsuit :,: ::, : Kagan :,, :, : :, : : :, : : : judicial : jury's : Justice : : :, :, : :, : :, :, : : :, : KATZ : :, : :,,, : : :,,, :, :, : :, :, : : : : :,, :,, : : : Kennedy :, keep : : Kagan's : : indicate : indicated : indicating : inducement : inducing : industries : industry : : :, : : : :,, inference : : infringe : infringed : : infringement : :, :, : :, : : : :, :, : : : infringer : : : infringes : infringing : inherent : : : initial : injured : inquiries : insist : : :, instance : : : : instances : : instinct : intact : : : lawsuits : : leap : leave : :, leaving : led : legal : : legislation : legitimate : :, legitimately : : length : lesser : letting : let's : : : :,:,liability : liable : : license :,: :,,: :,licensed : light : likelihood : : : limit : limitation : limitations : line : : : : : :,:, : :,listed : litigate : : : : : litigated : : : : litigating : : : Official litigation : MALCOLM : : : : : : : : : :, : : : : :,, : mandated : Meaning : mandates : : : : litigations : manufactured means : little : : : : logic : : : logical : logically : long : : manufacturers mention : measure : meet : : : : manufacturer :, :, : : : :, market : : : : : March : mentioned : : : lot : : Masonite : mistake :,, longer : look :, : :, : : : looking : loophole : Los : lose : : :, losing : loss : lost : : : : : : : : : lots : lower :, : M maintenance major : : : majority : : making : :, : : : mere : merits : : : :, : : :, : : : :, : : : : : : : :, millions : : met : : million :, : :, :, : : mind : : marketers : marketing : minimal : minor :, marketplace : minutes : : : : :, : Material : matter : : Monday : mode : :, : money : : :,, : : : :, : :, :, : :, : mean :, : monopoly : matters : maximize : maximizing : : : : :,: : : : :, : : : :, : : :, : :, monster : months : : : morning : : : motion :, motivations : multiple : NN :, : name :,: normal : : : notion : nth : number : : : : : numbers : OO : : object :objectionable: :,: ::,,,: : :, : : : : : : :, objectives :obtained : : obviously ::,names : : name's : natural : : : nature : NCAA : : : : : occasionally: :occur :occurred :offer :offered :office :,necessarily : offsetting : neck : : need : : oh : : :: :, okay :: : : : :,: needs : negotiate : negotiated : Oklahoma :negotiating : once : : neutral : never :, : : Nevertheless : new : : : : : : nice : nightmare : : ones :one's : opens :opinion :opportunities:opposed :oral : :, : :order : : :non-sham : outcome : Official : : : :,, presumptively : : : pretty : :,, prevail :, prevailed : prevailing : : : prevent : : prevented : price :, : :, :,, :, : :,: output : : outset : outside : outweighs : overconfident overturn : : : P P : page : : paid : : : : : paradigmatic : paragraph : particular : : : : : : : :,, : : parties :, person's : perspective : Petitioner : : :, : : :,, : : : : : : :,,, payments : :, : : :, :,, : :, : :, : :, :,, :, : :,, :, :, :,, :,,, :,,, :, :, payoff : : :, :, : :, : :, : : : : :,, : : : : : : : : : : :, pays : : pejorative : people : : patented : perceive : : :, : Pharmaceutical :, : : : : : : : : : : picking : picture : place : Plaintiff : : please : : point : :, patentee : : perceived : pool : : : : : : : : :, prices : : : pointed : : price-fixing:,: points : policy : primarily : principle : principles : prior : portion : position : : probably : :, : possibility : : : problem : : possible : possibly : potential : : : : :, :, : : : : problem's : procedure : proceed : : : : : percent : : : : percentage : : : perceptions : patentholder :,,, patents : :,, :,,, : : : :, : : :, : patent's : :,, patent-based : : : :, : : : : : : :, : : pay :, : perfect : period : paying : : : : : : payment : process : : : : pounce : practical : : :, : :, practices : praising : : : precision : : :, preferred : produce : : :, presented : :,,, : : procompetitive: : produced : preserved : product : presumably :, : : : : : presumption : :, : : : :, : :,, person : : : : permitting :, : : party : passing : patch : patent : : :, :, :, :, :,,, : :,, :,,, :,, : Official :, : : reasonable : : : reasonably : reasons : : : requirements : requires : resale :, : reserve : rights : : : : : : : : : : : :, :, : resold : : : : rigid : resolved :, rise : respect : rebut : rebuttal : : : rebutted : : receiving : recipient's : recognized : respond : Respondent : Respondents : : : : : : : : :, Respondent's : : : : risk : : :, : : : risks : rival's : ROBERTS : : : :, : : Rolex : : room : roughly :rule : : :, : :,,:, : : :,: :: :,: ::rules :: :: :ruling :,:,,run : : :running :SS : : sale : : products : : put : : : : : : : product's : : : Professor : putting : : : profit : : p.m : Q: : : profits : : : :, : : :, : : : :, : : : :,, : :, : prohibited :, proliferation : proof : : proposal : proposed : proposing : prospect : protect : : protection : provable : proved : provide : : : provided : provides : : : : proving : provision : public : purchase : purpose : : pursue : quality :question :,: :,: :,: :: :questions ::quick :,quickly :quite :quote :RR :raise :rare :reaction :read :reads :ready :real :realistic :reality ::, : realize :really : : : :: :: ::,,: :: : : : :: :reason : : :,, :, : recognizes : recognizing : record : : rectify : red : reduce : refer : reference : reflect : : response : : restraint : ::, : route :: : : :royalty :, restricted : restriction : :, : restrictions : restrictive : : : result : reflection : regard : : : Regents : : : retain : relative : relevant :, reverse : : relitigate : remaining : : remember : represent : require : : required : : :, : : : : : : :, rid : right : :, : :: : Official : : : : : somebody : : : shield : shift : short-circuit : sorry : show : : sort : : somewhat : : : showing : shown : : : shows : : side : : : : : sign : : : significance : sorted : Sotomayor : : : :,,, :,,, : :,, : :, :, : :, : :,, : : sound : sounds : similar : similarly : source : simply : : sources : : : : : Souter : so-called : specific : specifically : : spend : split : splitting : sports : :, : standard : standing : : :, start :, : :, :, :, : : : :,,, : : :,, : : : :,, : :, stop : strategy : : street : strength : :, : : :, : :, strike : : strong : : :, : structure : : : structured : stuck : studies : : subject : : subjective : submit : submitted : : : : sat : satisfactory : satisfied : saw : saying :, : : : :, :, : : :, : :, says : : Section : see : : : : : : : : : : seek :, seen :, : sell :, : : : : sends :, sense : : : : : : : sentence : : : serious : :, : : :, services : set : : settle : : Scalia : : : : :, : :, : : :,,, scenario : Schering-Plou... : scientists : scope :,, : :, :, : : : : : scope-of-the-p... : : : scrutiny : : se : :, :, : : : : : second :, : : : : : : : :, : : : :, : : :,, :,, settled : : : single :, : : sink :, :, : settlement : : : : : : :, : sitting : : :, : : : :, : : :,,, situated : situation : settlements : situations : : : : : :, : :, settles : settling :, shape :, share : : shared : shareholders : : six : : sixth : size : skew : : slightly : small : : sold : : Solicitor : solution's : sharing :, Solvay : : : subsequent :, : : : starts : States :, statute : statutory : stay : : subvert : substitute : : : : succeeds : steady :, step : Stewart : : successive : success : : : :,, : : :, : :, :, sued : suffer : suffering : Official suggested : : suggesting : : : suggests : : suing : : suit : : : : : : :, : : suits : : : :, : sum : supporting : supports : suppose : : : : : : :, Supreme :, sure : : suspect : suspicion : system : : : : : : systemic : systems : T T :, tacking : take :,, : : : : : : : : :, :, : taken : takes :, : talked : talking :, : : Tamoxifen : televised : television : tell : : telling : ten : : tend :, : term : : : : terms : : : test : : :,, :,, :,, :, tests : Thank : : :,, : theory : : : :, : : :,, :, : : :, : : :, : :, : : :, : thinking : : : thinks :, : third :, thought : : : : :, three : : thrust : : thwarted : tie : time : : : : : : :, : : :, times : the-sky-is-goi... Title : today : total : : thin : thing :, : : : : : :, : : : :, things : : think : : : : : : : : : :, : :, :, : : : tracks : trade : : : : tradeoff : transactions : transferred : treat : treated : : : tried :, tries : trigger : : triggers : troubled : United :, : University : troubling : unknown : true : : : :, : : :, :, unlimited : unpatented : : unpredictable unlawful : :, : : : trust : truth : try : : : : : trying : : turned : tweak : : two : : unprofitable : : : unreasonable unusual : use : : : : useful : usual : :, : usually : :, : :, : : : :,, Vv : : : vague : valid : validity : : type : types : : typical : : U valuable :value : : : :: : : :: : ultimate :ultimately : unable : uncertain : undersell : various :understand : vary : vast :verify : view : : violate :violation :: : : : ::, : understanding : :, understands understood : : undesirable : unexpected :unique :violations : voluntarily: W wait : waived :, : walk : : want :, : : :, : : :,, : : : : wanted : : : : : wants : : Washington : : : waste : watch : Watson : : : Watson's : way : :, : : : : : : : : : :, :, : : : ways : : weak : : : : : weakness : weigh : Weinberger : : :, : :, : :, : : : :, : :, :, : : : :,, : Official :, : :, : :,, : :, :, : : : :, : : :, : :, :, : :,, : :, : :, : Weinberger's : went : we'll : : : :, : : : we're : : : : :, : we've : win : : : : window : winning : : : wins :, : : : won : : :, wonder : words : : work : worked : working : works : : world : worried : worth :, : : : wouldn't : : : : : : : : Wrinkle : wrong : X x :, : Y year :,, : : : years :, : : : : : : : : you’d : : $ $ : $ : $ : $ : : : : : : : : : (b)() : - : : : : : : : -month : : :, : : -day : : : :,, :, : :,, : : , : : : : : : :, :,, : : : : : : : : : : : : :, : , : : : : : : : : / : : , :, : : : : 