 Official        IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES        ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ x                                  MARVIN GREEN,                       :             Petitioner                : No. ­         v.                          MEGAN J. BRENNAN,                    POSTMASTER GENERAL.                 : : : ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ x                                                         Washington, D.C.                         Monday, November ,                  The above­entitled matter came on for oral       argument before the Supreme Court of the United States         at : a.m.   APPEARANCES: BRIAN WOLFMAN, ESQ., Stanford, Cal.; on behalf of           Petitioner. CURTIS E. GANNON, ESQ., Assistant to the Solicitor              General, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on       behalf of Respondent.   CATHERINE M.A. CARROLL, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; for          Court­appointed amicus curiae in support of the          judgment below.  Alderson Reporting Company Official                                    C O N T E N T S ORAL ARGUMENT OF                                     BRIAN WOLFMAN, ESQ.    PAGE    On behalf of the Petitioner                           ORAL ARGUMENT OF   CURTIS E. GANNON, ESQ.       On behalf of the Respondent                           ORAL ARGUMENT OF   CATHERINE M.A. CARROLL, ESQ.       On behalf of the Court­appointed        amicus curiae in support of the judgment          below                                              REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF   BRIAN WOLFMAN, ESQ.      On behalf of the Petitioner                            Alderson Reporting Company Official                                       P R O C E E D I N G S                                            (: a.m.)              CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument       next in Case ­, Green v. Brennan.                   Mr. Wolfman.               ORAL ARGUMENT OF BRIAN WOLFMAN                    ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER                 MR. WOLFMAN: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it         please the Court:               The basic principle of this Court's      timeliness cases, Title VII and otherwise, is that the         clock starts when the cause of action is complete.         Because a constructive discharge claim is complete only         after the employee resigns, this Court should reverse.                    The court has indicated that limitations      principles should be as simple as possible. The Tenth          Circuit's rule, however, injects unnecessary complexity.      Identifying the last discriminatory act in an alleged        hostile work environment can be difficult.                  And as this Court said in early ­­                   JUSTICE SCALIA: What does the statute say?        Can we look at the statute? What's it ­­ what does the             statute say?              MR. WOLFMAN: The statute says matter ­­       aggrieved party has to bring within days the matter          Alderson Reporting Company Official alleged to be discriminatory.                JUSTICE SCALIA: The matter alleged to be        discriminatory. And is the resignation of ­­ of the          employee a matter alleged to be discriminatory?                    matter ­­             MR. WOLFMAN: Absolutely, Your Honor. The        JUSTICE SCALIA: The employee discriminated      against himself?              MR. WOLFMAN: No. The matter ­­ the matter          alleged is the whole of the claim. As the dictionaries           say, and as most of the lower courts say, the matter is            just a shorthanded way of referring to the cause of           action that the ­­ the person is bringing.                    Here, the matter ­­ and this is       undisputed ­­ is a constructive discharge which, as this          Court said in Suders, has two elements, both the         precipitating conduct and the resignation. Without       both, there is no constructive discharge claim.                   JUSTICE KENNEDY: But for a constructive        discharge claim to succeed you have to point to a          discriminatory or an unlawful act.                             MR. WOLFMAN: It is true that ­­       JUSTICE KENNEDY: And so we have to find         this anyway.              MR. WOLFMAN: It is true that that is one          Alderson Reporting Company Official component. There is no question that there are going to           be ­­ again, Suders said there would be both         precipitating conduct and the resignation; both elements       must be present for there to be constructive discharge.                     But ­­ but let's assume for a second that          the ­­ that the ­­ the matter alleged to be          discriminatory is ambiguous in some sense. Then the         court should just go to its time­honored default rule.         Default rule is that the cause of action must be fully           formed before the limitations period is triggered.                   JUSTICE SCALIA: Of course. That's ­­ that         rule is adopted for statutes that do not have a          conciliation provision. What use is the conciliation        provision once the employee has quit?                  MR. WOLFMAN: I ­­ I think not, Your Honor.            The conciliation process always anticipates that the       claim will have occurred; that the acts giving rise to          the claim, including all the elements, have occurred        before conciliation ­­              JUSTICE SCALIA: That's fine, but the       employer can make it up, you know. It's ­­ they try to             bring the employer and the employee together.                                           MR. WOLFMAN: That is true.      JUSTICE SCALIA: Right?    MR. WOLFMAN: But only ­­     Alderson Reporting Company Official             JUSTICE SCALIA: But he's quit. He's gone.         He's no longer an employee. What conciliation can there          be?             MR. WOLFMAN: Your Honor, that is true for         any of the acts that could be brought prior to the           ­day trigger. For instance, a termination would fit          exactly the scenario you're suggesting, a termination        which, after all, is the analogue to the constructive         discharge. That claim cannot be brought into the         conciliation process until it exists.                 So it's just the first component of the        process ­­ what you're referring to, Your Honor, as         conciliation ­­ moves quickly into a more adversarial         stages, and all of those stages presuppose that there is          a cause of action that exists, or a claim that exists.                        And again, that's quite consistent with this       Court's default rule that ­­ that the limitations period         is ­­ is not triggered until the claim is fully formed.           And that's perfectly consistent with all of this Court's         Title VII timeliness cases.                If you look at, for instance, Evans, if you         look at Ricks. At Ricks there was a fully formed cause             of action, and that's why the limitations period was         triggered, because the limitations period was triggered       by the denial of tenure.     Alderson Reporting Company Official             JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I ­­ I somehow feel          you've given up too much. You can charge a          discriminatory termination, correct? And that's the       employer making a decision that he is going to fire you            for reasons that are not legitimate; they're       discriminatory.             Isn't a constructive discharge that the       moment that the environment has gotten so hostile that         you feel overwhelmed and have to leave, isn't that the          discriminatory act as well?                MR. WOLFMAN: Yes. I think ­­                    JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So that that discharge       itself is discriminatory because it ­­ the employer has         proceeded in a pattern that has led you to that           decision?             MR. WOLFMAN: That's exactly right. And I         did not mean to be retreating from that position at all.           That's the two elements of the claim. So the          resignation is part and parcel of the claim. You have           the precipitating conduct, and you have the resignation.                    JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: That's what I'm saying.       I don't think ­­ I think it's ­­                    JUSTICE SCALIA: Well ­­                JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: You keep talking about       it as two separate elements.     Alderson Reporting Company Official             MR. WOLFMAN: Well, there are separate       elements but when the resignation occurs, the ­­ the         claim is imputed to the employer.                  JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: That's the     precipitating ­­                         MR. WOLFMAN: It's imputed to the employer.        JUSTICE SCALIA: They're ­­ they're not       always the same at the same point. The employer could           have been discriminating against this employee for       years, and ­­ and there's no additional discrimination        for an entire year. But the employee has finally gotten           fed up with it, and after a year, during which the            employer has done nothing else discriminatory, he       decides I'm going to quit. Now he'd still have a claim             for, you know, discriminatory provoking of ­­ of the         quitting, but the ­­ but the time period for the          discrimination and the time period for the quitting are         a year apart.               MR. WOLFMAN: Well, that's certainly      possible, but again, that would ­­ that would be the          case in many situations.                So, for instance, let's assume for a second         that there had been a discriminatory demotion on day          one, and then a year later there has been a           discriminatory termination with perhaps the exact same       Alderson Reporting Company Official motive. No one disputes that both of those claims are           independently actionable, and no one disputes that their        limitations periods have a different trigger date.                    JUSTICE SCALIA: It is an act of the         employer, and quitting is not an act of the employer.          The act of the employer ­­ the unlawful act of the           employer is coercing the quitting. So you have to find           an act on his part that coerces the quitting. That's           quite different from the employer discharging the       person ­­                                     MR. WOLFMAN: There are ­­     JUSTICE SCALIA: ­­ for discriminatory ­­      MR. WOLFMAN: ­­ are some differences, but        the point is that the resignation, at the point of          resignation, when the cause of action accrues ­­ and no          one here disputes that's when the cause of action         accrues ­­ that conduct is imputed to the employer.                        And it's not simply in the that's not ­­     that's what this Court said in Suders, but it's not          simply ­­             JUSTICE SCALIA: For purpose of remedy, yes,        it is. It's ­­                MR. WOLFMAN: Not simply for purposes of        remedy. A cause of action for constructive discharge          will be dismissed if the person is still on the job and            Alderson Reporting Company Official has not resigned.                           JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Wolfman ­­     MR. WOLFMAN: This is part of the        affirmative case.              JUSTICE KAGAN: If ­­ you might be pulled in          two different directions here but you don't have to         accept what Justice Sotomayor is saying to win this         case; isn't that right?                In other words, one could say, yes, if you         had discriminatory acts language, that might point to        the last predicate discriminatory act as opposed to the         resignation, it might or it might not, but here that          language doesn't exist. Here the language is        discriminatory matter. That refers to the entire claim.         And when you refer to the entire claim, it's clear that           the resignation is part and parcel of that.                                MR. WOLFMAN: That is right. I mean, we ­­           JUSTICE KAGAN: And it at least creates        ambiguity, such that the default rule would operate.                                to that ­­              MR. WOLFMAN: That ­­ that ­­      JUSTICE KAGAN: So you don't have not to go          MR. WOLFMAN: I think that is true, that we           have argued this in two alternative ways. One is simply           that the cause of action is not complete until there's a           Alderson Reporting Company Official resignation. And we think the regulation is clear, but          even if it were not clear, the default rule kicks in and            we win.              But there's no question also that one of the         premises of the constructive discharge, constructive      eviction, constructive termination as in the Mac's Shell        case, there is no question that there is this idea that           when the relationship is ended, that is imputed to the          employer. Some courts have focused more on that         rationale, and others have focused more on our principal         rationale, which is simply that the cause of action is          not complete until the resignation occurs.                  JUSTICE GINSBURG: Why doesn't that mean       that it's within the employee's ability to stretch out         the time that he has? Plus there could have been all            this discrimination and the employee stays on the job,         and then sometime down the road decides to quit.                     MR. WOLFMAN: Well, I think ­­ I think that            is a concern in theory but not in practice. In ­­ in              reality, there are no such claims. The claims would be           so weak that those constructive discharge claims are not         brought, and amicus cites no claims of that nature.                     And let me just say that in this case ­­         Court's decision in Bay Area Laundry, which applied the         default rule, the same ­­ the same concern was raised          Alderson Reporting Company Official that the limitations period, the trigger, would be        within the hands of the plaintiff. And the Court said,           well, that may be so, but that's the way the statute was            written, the limitations period was written, and so be         it.             And the Court also added that the plaintiff        would have incentives to bring the claim as soon as          possible, and that would, of course, be true here.         It ­­ if in fact the person could no longer take it,            they would want to leave. They certainly wouldn't want          to bring a weak claim that came years after the           precipitating conduct. That ­­                CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, not ­­ not        years but maybe several months. I mean, you know, yes,            you can't take it anymore, but maybe you also need a           paycheck or ­­ or, you know, you're going to be eligible           for the bonus in six weeks, you may as well at least            wait until then.               MR. WOLFMAN: That is possible. There        are ­­ most cases, most of the constructive discharge         cases are bought ­­ brought promptly. Again, no one has           suggested here ­­ and there are many constructive        discharge cases in the courts that there have been any          significant delay.              JUSTICE ALITO: May I follow up on         Alderson Reporting Company Official Justice Kagan's question? You were discussing the        possibility of deciding this case based on the        particular language of the regulation that applies here,        but your question presented is phrased much more        broadly.             You say under Federal employment     discrimination law, so I took that to mean that the rule            that you're advocating would be the same for public and          private sector employment.               MR. WOLFMAN: I think it would be, Your          Honor, and I think so. I think this ­­ this Court's              decision would apply there, or at least give significant         guidance. The private sector ­­                 JUSTICE ALITO: But there is ­­ this matter         alleged to be discriminatory applies only to Federal        employment.             MR. WOLFMAN: That is correct, but if I         might ­­ if I might extend my answer. The ­­ the             private sector statute talks about an unlawful       employment of practice occurring. And again, in light         of the default rule, even if there's ambiguity in ­­ in           that phraseology, in light of the default rule, I think           it's very likely that you're going to have the same rule           apply in both situations.                Both of them seem to be describing the        Alderson Reporting Company Official claim, the cause of action, what it is that the employee           is complaining about.               JUSTICE ALITO: Isn't it true that outside        of the area of constructive discharge ­­ and maybe         constructive discharge is different, and I think that's         really the thrust of your argument. But outside of that           situation there must be an act of intentional        discrimination within the limitations period.                 MR. WOLFMAN: Well, that is likely correct,        if by that you are rejecting the notion ­­ again, in my            discussion with Justice Sotomayor ­­ that the       resignation is imputed to the employer. And that is ­­          that is the case, Your Honor ­­                  JUSTICE ALITO: Yeah, but you're arguing       that there's ­­ because there's this imputation, it's        different for constructive discharge.                            MR. WOLFMAN: Right.    JUSTICE ALITO: But my ­­ my question is         outside of that context, under Evans and Ricks and         Morgan and Ledbetter, there must be an act of         intentional discrimination within the limitations     period.             MR. WOLFMAN: Yes, Your Honor. But let's be          clear about what those cases stand for. Those cases do           reflect the facts as you just stated them. But in each            Alderson Reporting Company Official of those cases, the trigger date was when the claim          first became actionable, and that's the exact same rule         we're asking for here.                  And let me again extend my answer to you,       Justice Alito, which it is true that constructive        discharge could be unique in the sense you're suggesting         in the Title VII case, in the Title VII area. But let's             remember that constructive eviction, constructive     business termination are treated the exact same way.                    Your Honor, I ­­ I do want to go back to             some of the practical implications. As I ­­ as I began              saying, the Tenth Circuit rule would inject unnecessary        complexity. By contrast, the date of resignation is         easy to identify. Most administrative claimants are        laypeople and are unlikely to be cognizant of the         last­act rule posited by the Tenth Circuit.                   Reasonable intuition; that is, common sense,      will tell an employee that I cannot and certainly need           not bring my claim that I was forced out before I was              actually forced out.               CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, but I think         the government suggests that this is exactly a case          where it's not so easy to figure out when the          constructive termination was.               MR. WOLFMAN: Well, when the resignation       Alderson Reporting Company Official CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: When the resignation       MR. WOLFMAN: Well, let me just say, Your         occurred?             occurred.             Honor, on that score, no one disputed that issue below,          and ­­             CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, that doesn't       mean it was easy or ­­ or hard.                    MR. WOLFMAN: No, Your Honor, I think it          does mean it was easy. Every ­­ the ­­ all the parties             below, the administrative decisionmaker below, and the       Tenth Circuit below all held that ­­ that ­­ all          indicated that my client resigned on ­­ on February ­­                     CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, you know that        the case ­­ you know, someone says this is ridiculous, I           can't take it anymore, I will resign in three months. I             mean, what is the date of constructive termination then?                     MR. WOLFMAN: Well, our rule is that        definitive notice of resignation. I think the         government agrees with that. And so if you hand in a            letter or you state I am going to resign on Friday or             next Monday, that the trigger date would be the date ­­                      JUSTICE KENNEDY: No. He says ­­ I ­­ I            interpreted the Chief Justice's question, maybe wrongly,       suppose he says in his own mind I can't take it anymore,             Alderson Reporting Company Official three months from now I'm going to resign.                    MR. WOLFMAN: I think the trigger date would          be that date. If he ­­                                                      JUSTICE KENNEDY: When he resigns?      MR. WOLFMAN: If he give notice ­­       JUSTICE KENNEDY: When he resigns?      MR. WOLFMAN: His resignation is the ­­ the         date that he says that because that's the date he gave           definitive notice ­­              JUSTICE KENNEDY: No, no. The date that he          says it to himself or the date that he does resign?                       MR. WOLFMAN: Oh. Was the Chief Justice         positing something going on in the mind of the ­­ of the            plaintiff?             CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: No, no. It's ­­        it's, you know, I think it's fairly common for people to            set a resignation date at some point in the future. You             know, a schoolteacher will say as soon as this school           year is over, I'm out of here.                   MR. WOLFMAN: I think the date of         resignation is the date the teacher says that.                                yet.             JUSTICE GINSBURG: Then no ­­     JUSTICE SCALIA: There's no cause of action        JUSTICE GINSBURG: You mean ­­     Alderson Reporting Company Official             JUSTICE SCALIA: There's no cause ­­ you've        been ­­ you've been arguing to us you can't have the           statute running until there's a cause of action.                     MR. WOLFMAN: There is a cause of action          because there's been a resignation, definitive notice of         resignation. It's true that the person is still on the           job ­­                         JUSTICE SCALIA: He's still getting paid.       MR. WOLFMAN: That is correct, but ­­ but         the person has resigned. And the lower courts ­­                     JUSTICE SCALIA: He hasn't resigned. He's        given notice of his intention to resign three months         from now.              MR. WOLFMAN: I don't believe ­­ if the ­­          if the Court wishes to adopt a ­­ a last­day­of­work            rule, that obviously would benefit ­­                                         JUSTICE SCALIA: No ­­    MR. WOLFMAN: ­­ I'm fine.      JUSTICE SCALIA: ­­ I'm just adopting the        rule of what he says. If he says I resign, he's             resigned. If he says I will resign in three months, he             doesn't resign until three months.                 MR. WOLFMAN: We believe that when someone,        for instance, hands in a letter and said, my last day of             work ­­ I resign, my last day of work will be Friday,             Alderson Reporting Company Official that that constitutes a resignation, and that our rule          is definitive date of resignation.                 If the Court wishes, again, to adopt the        last­date­of ­­ of­work rule, that would obviously       benefit my client but it is not necessary.                      I would like to reserve the balance of my        time.             CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.                   Mr. Gannon.             ORAL ARGUMENT OF CURTIS E. GANNON                       ON BEHALF OF RESPONDENT                MR. GANNON: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it         please the Court:               We agree with petitioner that the period for        initiating administrative consideration of a     constructive­discharge claim should begin when the      employee gives notice of resignation and not when the         employer commits the last act which might or might not          lead to that resignation.                And if I can turn to the colloquy that the           Chief Justice and Justice Scalia were just having with         my friend, we think that one of the virtues of this rule            is that it ­­ it leads to the same result in both cases             of actual termination and cases of constructive       termination. Alderson Reporting Company Official             JUSTICE ALITO: Why don't you change ­­ why         don't you just amend the regulation?                              MR. GANNON: Well, we think ­­      JUSTICE ALITO: We're interpreting the      language ­­ it's not even a statute. It's a regulation.             It's your regulation.                           MR. GANNON: It is ­­     JUSTICE ALITO: Why don't you just amend it         to make it clear? You think this is a sensible rule, it              is a very clear rule. And it's probably a sensible rule              when you've got a ­day period.                   Why ­­                         litigation.             Why don't you just change the regulation?       MR. GANNON: The EEOC ­­     JUSTICE ALITO: ­­ this elaborate      MR. GANNON: The EEOC may well do that,         Justice Alito. The same question is going to present          itself with respect to ­­ we think materially the same          question presents itself in the non­Federal sector where        the statute, as has already been discussed, refers to         when the allegedly unlawful employment practice      occurred. And the EEOC has construed this portion of          the regulation as being effectively the same as the rule          in the non­Federal sector.    Alderson Reporting Company Official             And the rule that we're asking for is this         Court's rule from Ricks. It's the exact same rule.          This rule about being when definitive notice has ­­        is ­­ is given for a termination, Justice Scalia, you           were saying that when somebody says I quit, my last day            of work is three months from now, therefore, he hasn't          actually quit, that's Ricks.                The Court concluded that when the employer       there said you have been denied tenure, here is your          terminal contract, you will be working here for only one          more year, that the relevant date was the date on which           the operative decision had been made and it had been          communicated to the employee. And so we think that the           rule should be the same for cases of actual discharge ­­                      JUSTICE KENNEDY: But Ricks ­­                 MR. GANNON: ­­ and constructive discharge.                   JUSTICE KENNEDY: Ricks alleged only      discrimination, not discriminatory ­­ not constructive      discharge.             MR. GANNON: That's true. There is a         difference here.              JUSTICE KENNEDY: That's why I have a         problem with Ricks.               MR. GANNON: Well ­­                JUSTICE KENNEDY: I mean, I don't think          Alderson Reporting Company Official Ricks reads directly on what you're saying. You ­­ you           want to have an extension.                 MR. GANNON: We're trying to say that we         think that the same rule should apply to actual and          constructive discharges, and ­­ and it is a rule that is            date of notification rather than date of separation.        And that's the rule that everybody applies on the         termination side; it's the rule that most of the courts          of appeals have applied in the ­­ in the discharge side.                        In the context of terminations, only     Justice Stevens suggested we should be using the actual         date of separation ­­               JUSTICE KENNEDY: But again, as Justice       Scalia points out, there's a difference between the         employee taking the action and the ­­ and the employer          taking the action ­­                           Ricks.             MR. GANNON: We agree that that ­­       JUSTICE KENNEDY: ­­ and that distinguishes       MR. GANNON: That does ­­ that does make         this case different. That's why this isn't on all fours           with Ricks. And we do think that you would have to make             the decision that you want to apply the same rule across           to the constructive discharge context. But we think the          reason you would do that is precisely because, as the          Alderson Reporting Company Official Court acknowledged in Suders, a constructive discharge        requires both an employee's decision to resign and the         precipitating conduct. And until both of those things         have happened, there is no constructive discharge.       Nobody can say I have been constructively discharged         until both of those things ­­                 JUSTICE SCALIA: It seems to me you're ­­        you're loading the dice when ­­ when you say it requires           both a decision to resign.                              MR. GANNON: Well, the ­­     JUSTICE SCALIA: It ­­ it requires a        resignation.                         MR. GANNON: Well, I would just ­­        JUSTICE SCALIA: I mean, that's ­­ that's         the problem.              MR. GANNON: I was just quoting the Court's          decision in Suders, Justice Scalia.                 JUSTICE SCALIA: No, we weren't discussing       this very issue.               MR. GANNON: Well, we were discussing ­­ the         Court was discussing when a constructive discharge was         actionable, and that until ­­ and so we do think it's           not just the decision in the employee's head. We think           that the decision has to actually be communicated.                    And so we ­­ this is one reason why actually          Alderson Reporting Company Official this isn't ­­ this wouldn't interfere as much with the          concern for counseling and conciliation that you were        discussing with my friend, which is that, as in cases of           termination, it could be that everybody knows that the         discharge has happened ­­ it's a constructive discharge         or an actual discharge.                Everybody knows when the employer says,      you're fired, your last day of work is days from           today, same thing when the employee says I'm giving my          notice, I quit, my last day is days from today. At              that point, whichever one has happened, the employee can         go and initiate counseling. He may not be out the door            yet. There may be a resolution that happens. If he             does end up going out the door, counseling can happen          afterwards. But he doesn't have to initiate counseling         before this happens. There's a ­day ­­                    JUSTICE SCALIA: He doesn't even have to        tell the employer why he's resigning.                              MR. GANNON: That's ­­ that's ­­      JUSTICE SCALIA: I mean, all the employer         knows is you're ­­ you're leaving at the end of this           term of ­­ of school.                             MR. GANNON: And ­­    JUSTICE SCALIA: Or you're leaving in three        months. That's all the employer knows.       Alderson Reporting Company Official             MR. GANNON: And in our view, when ­­ when          ­­ once he's given notice, I'm leaving in three months,          he then has days to initiate the counseling with ­­          with the agency counselor.                JUSTICE SCALIA: He doesn't even have to        specify in his notice of quitting that he is quitting          because of discriminatory action. He doesn't even have         to specify that.               MR. GANNON: That ­­ that is generally true         in the rest of the doctrine. That has nothing to do            with the statute of limitations. The EEOC will ask did           you tell your employer this is why you were resigning.          It will be something that will make it more difficult to           prove his case. But we ­­                  JUSTICE SCALIA: I think whether he has to          say that or not has a lot to do with ­­ with when the               effective date ought to be, it seems to me.                     MR. GANNON: Well, we think that the reason         that this counts as being an act that should be imputed           to the employer is because it is forced by the          circumstances.             And we think that the doctrine itself is        self­limiting. It limits the time period between when         the employee is able to suffer the consequence of what          the employer does to him, and then actually say I can't            Alderson Reporting Company Official take this anymore, because as the Court held in Suders,          the employee is going to have to prove that the          situation was intolerable, but he can ­­                  that.                         JUSTICE SCALIA: But he doesn't have to say         MR. GANNON: He doesn't have to say that ­­         JUSTICE SCALIA: He doesn't have to say I         can't take this anymore ­­                            MR. GANNON: ­­ on the day ­­       JUSTICE SCALIA: He just has to quit or say          I'm quitting at the end of this term of school, and then            later say, oh, the reason I quit was it was I just              couldn't take it anymore.                 days.              after when?                          notice.             MR. GANNON: And he has to do that within          JUSTICE SCALIA: Within days after ­­       MR. GANNON: After the date ­­      JUSTICE SCALIA: After his giving the       MR. GANNON: After the date of notification.        Just as, like ­­ as I was saying before, just as if it              were when the employer said, you're fired, your last day          of work is two weeks from today. The clock is ticking.            That's the rule from Ricks. We think it should be the            Alderson Reporting Company Official same rule here, and we think that the reason why this is            called a constructive discharge is ­­ is right there in           the phrase is ­­ is pregnant with the idea that this is            an action that is being imputed to the employer.                     And so although it is true that, unlike the         regular ­­ the other claim of discrimination that        Justice Kennedy was mentioning before in Ricks, although        the employer has not actually done something necessarily        during the limitations period, the new act of        discrimination that we think is relevant here is the act          of the employee, and it's one that it's called a          constructive discharge precisely because it is not       actually a discharge. It is instead an act of the            employee that is a resignation, but it is treated in law            as a legal fiction as if it is a discharge. And we               think that that's ­­ that squares the circle here. And           we ­­             JUSTICE SCALIA: Of course, I would ­­ I          would take the term constructive discharge to refer not         to the notice of quitting, but rather to the acts of the            employer that forced the quitting. Even though the         person hasn't been discharged, you have constructively       discharged him because you've made his life miserable.                    MR. GANNON: I ­­ I take the point,           Justice Scalia, but that's not enough to allege a         Alderson Reporting Company Official constructive discharge. Until the employee actually       says I'm quitting, there has not been a constructive          discharge. And so just because an ­­ and this may be            what Justice Sotomayor was asking about before, but        we ­­             JUSTICE GINSBURG: And that ­­ that works        the same way with eviction and other cases where you          have constructive, that the person has to act ­­                    MR. GANNON: That ­­ that's correct. And we          think the constructive eviction case is a very close          parallel. And it shows that it's unusual but not          unprecedented that the plaintiff might be the one that         actually controls when the clock starts on the statute         of limitations.              And take the case of a constructive        eviction. If somebody wants to bring a claim for the            breach of the covenant of warranty, that's a claim that           doesn't start until the tenant has been evicted, either         actually or constructively. And so there's some choice         there of when ­­ when ­­                 JUSTICE SCALIA: What do you mean,       constructively? I don't understand. Constructive of ­­         can't you bring a claim of constructive eviction while          you're still occupying the premises?                 MR. GANNON: The ­­ it ­­ that's ­­ that's          Alderson Reporting Company Official one version of constructive eviction. Under the ­­        under the more classical version of constructive       eviction that came up in cases involving breach of the          covenant of warranty, the eviction would be constructive        because no one actually came and forced you out.         Instead, you just yielded to a superior claim of          paramount title, and that was your choice of when you          decided you weren't going to fight this anymore.                    JUSTICE SCALIA: But in fact you don't have         to get out. I think ­­                               MR. GANNON: In fact you had not yet ­­         JUSTICE SCALIA: You can bring ­­ you can         bring a claim against your landlord for constructive         eviction while you're still occupying the premises.                   MR. GANNON: Well, the Court recognized in        the Mac's Shell decision that's more of an innovation         that ­­ that it wasn't the way this was classically          handled. And ­­ and in Mac's Shell said that it thought            that there wasn't a constructive termination of a         franchise until the franchise had actually ­­ until        somebody had actually walked out and allegized it to         both the classical cases of constructive eviction, and        this case of constructive discharge.                 We think that it's clear that if the        employee says this would be bad enough for me to resign           Alderson Reporting Company Official but I'm not going to resign, I want to bring a claim for               constructive discharge, he couldn't do that. He        could ­­ he could say I've been discriminated against,         he could say there's been a hostile work environment,          but we do think, in disagreement with ­­ with my friend,           the court­appointed amicus, we do think that these are         two different claims.               And the Court's opinion in Suders indicated       that there's a distinction between, for instance, the         underlying claim for hostile work environment and then        the more aggravated claim of a constructive discharge         for hostile work environment.                JUSTICE KAGAN: Do the predicate acts have        to be independently actionable or not?                  MR. GANNON: I don't think that they have to           be. In most cases they will be. We ­­ we take that              point as probably going to be an unusual case where you           can bring a constructive discharge and nothing else.                     The paradigmatic case is the one that the        Court was hypothesizing in Suders where you have a         hostile work environment where there are lots of things         that would have been actionable as discrimination, but        they wouldn't have necessarily have warranted quitting.                   And then the employee says this is too much,         it's crossed the line, I'm quitting. That second claim          Alderson Reporting Company Official we think is a new claim. That's why the Court described             it as a second ­­ as an additional ­­ as a graver claim.                             And in the discussion of amending the     complaints that ­­ that the amicus invokes in the EEOC's          management directive, the reason why the court of        appeals and the amicus can say that the employee could          always just amend a timely complaint about the         underlying discrimination and add a claim for        constructive discharge is because the EEOC considers       this to be a new incident of discrimination. But you            can actually amend a pending complaint because it's         related to what went before.                 But the reason why you have to amend the         complaint is because it's a new claim. It's not just            evidence that's relevant to damages for the underlying        discrimination. There's ­­ there's ­­ the employee is         going to have to prove that he's made a decision to            resign, and also that the reason he did so was because           the situation was so intolerable that he ­­ he was left           with no other choice. But that ­­                   JUSTICE GINSBURG: Can you explain the       difference between your position and the Petitioner's?       Why do you date the constructive discharge from, what is          it, December th?               MR. GANNON: Yes. And so I take it you're            Alderson Reporting Company Official ­­ you're talking about the factual question. I don't           understand us as have a disagreement about the legal          question. But with respect to applying the rule to this           case, the difference is that we think that the         settlement agreement that Petitioner signed on December       th ­­ which is the relevant clauses are reprinted at          pages and of the Joint Appendix ­­ manifested his           unequivocal notice of his intention to resign. We think          that satisfies the rule that both of us are talking          about here.              choice.                         the ­­             JUSTICE GINSBURG: But he was given a        MR. GANNON: We don't think ­­      JUSTICE GINSBURG: He was given a choice of          MR. GANNON: That's ­­ that is not the way          we think the agreement reads, Justice Ginsburg. The         first two sentences of the clause that crosses the page          from to say Mr. Green agrees to retire from the            Postal Service no later than March st, and Mr. Green          agrees to take all necessary steps to effect his         retirement ­­                         JUSTICE GINSBURG: But then read on.       MR. GANNON: And the next sentence says ­­        it doesn't say Mr. Green has an option of not retiring           Alderson Reporting Company Official if he decides to change his mind and then report to ­­           for duty. It says if retirement from the Postal Service           does not occur, that he will report for duty in a           station to which he already ­­                 JUSTICE ALITO: Well, suppose he showed up        in ­­ in Wyoming? What would you have done?                                  MR. GANNON: Do you mean ­­      JUSTICE ALITO: Wouldn't you have allowed       him to take that job at the lower pay?                     MR. GANNON: You mean if he had ­­ he had           not taken all steps necessary to effect his resignation         by March st? Then we think ­­                               JUSTICE ALITO: No. No. You said ­­         MR. GANNON: We think he would have been in          breach of the agreement. I'm not sure what would have           happened then, but the reason this sentence is in the          agreement is to take account of ­­ of circumstances that          are no fault of his. If the Postal Service, or in            particular the OPM, takes ­­                                        JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: It's not a breach.        MR. GANNON: Pardon?    JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: The agreement says if he        hasn't taken all the steps, if it does not occur,          Mr. Green will report for duty.                  MR. GANNON: Yes, it does ­­      Alderson Reporting Company Official JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: In Wyoming.     MR. GANNON: And it doesn't say that he has                                  a choice of doing that. He will have already breached           the second sentence if he decides not to retire.                     JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Why not have the second        sentence there?                          MR. GANNON: Pardon?    JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Why have the second       sentence there at all? Why are you giving him an option            if he's ­­ if he hasn't retired?                   MR. GANNON: We do not read this as giving          him an option. We read this as responding ­­                     JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: There was not reached by        the court below, correct?                MR. GANNON: This was reached by the        district court. It was an alternative holding by the          district court. The Petitioner did not appeal that         alternative holding. And so in the court of appeals,          the court was just considering the antecedent question        of whether we should only look to the act of the           employer or also the act of the employee.                    And so this factual question didn't actually       come up before the court of appeals. We noted in the            statement of facts in our court of appeals brief that          the agreement included his ­­ the settlement agreement        Alderson Reporting Company Official included his agreement to retire, but otherwise we did         take the case on his premise, and the court of appeals           did not address this.                So we do think that it would be appropriate         for the Court here, if it agrees with us, if this           agreement is sufficiently clear, to say that Petitioner        will lose on the facts of this case.                    If you want to remand and have the court of          appeals consider whether the district court was correct        in reaching that, that would also be appropriate. But          we think that this wouldn't be that different from what          the Court did in Irwin where in Irwin the Court said,           well, the court of appeals was wrong about finding that          there was no possibility of equitable tolling;       nevertheless, there is no way he will ever satisfy         equitable tolling on the facts of this case, so he          loses.             And I do think that one final thing I would            like to say is that the Court should be able to take            some comfort from the real­world evidence that we have.         It's not much. We don't have evidence of cases from the            five circuits that have adopted a version of the notice           of resignation rule between and that indicates         that employers are being besieged with stale       discrimination claims that are being revived by       Alderson Reporting Company Official employees' attempts to quit some months or years after         the fact. And so we think that it's doesn't present           those concerns.              JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Frankly, I'm a little        less moved by that because, from my personal experience,         those stale claims generally don't make it past a motion           to dismiss.                          MR. GANNON: Well, that ­­ that ­­       JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Very few of them are        appealed because if they're really that stale, those        constructive discharge claims are usually thrown out.                   MR. GANNON: Well, I ­­                  JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: The case is litigated on        other grounds.              MR. GANNON: Well, I think that's right, but          ­­ and I think that ­­ but it's also the case that in              many cases, in fact in most cases, there isn't going to           be very much time between these two dates, and therefore          it usually isn't going to be that dispositive.                    In this case, we think that the things        happened on the same day. Even under Petitioner's         approach, he had some weeks to make his decision. But           the reason why he wasn't prejudiced by being able to          take some weeks to make his decision is precisely         because he was using annual leave, he wasn't suffering         Alderson Reporting Company Official the consequences of a hostile work environment, he         hadn't taken the pay cut, he hadn't had to move           miles away, and so this was an unusual case where he           would have been able to take that much time.                     And so it looks like, as in ­­ in         practicality's sake, that ­­ that it hasn't made a big           difference. And that's why we think it would be useful           for the Court to say this is effectively the Ricks rule.           It should apply to both cases of actual and cases of           constructive termination.              If there are no further questions, we would        urge the Court to affirm.                 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.                   Ms. Carroll.           ORAL ARGUMENT OF CATHERINE M.A. CARROLL                  AS COURT­APPOINTED AMICUS CURIAE                 IN SUPPORT OF THE JUDGMENT BELOW                  MS. CARROLL: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it         please the Court:               We agree that the Ricks rule should apply        here as it does to any other kind of claim under Title            VII, and like any other kind of claim under Title VII, a            constructive discharge claim has to challenge actionable       conduct by the employer.                In applying the EEOC's regulation here, we       Alderson Reporting Company Official have to ask, what was that actionable conduct, that         matter alleged to be discriminatory, and when did it         occur.             JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, you just sort of made         those two synonymous. But they don't have to be          synonymous. A matter might mean the claim, not the           particular discriminatory conduct that's the predicate      for the claim.               MS. CARROLL: Justice Kagan, I think that         the EEOC has, by equating the Federal sector provision         with the private sector provision, has suggested that        both of these provisions do focus on the alleged         unlawful employment practice. In addition when the EEOC         promulgated this rule in its current form, it explained         that this rule, quote, continued the rule that had         applied under the prior version which used the language         alleged discriminatory event.               So I don't think the inclusion of the word          "matter" by itself makes a difference. After all, it           doesn't just say matter. It says matter alleged to be           discriminatory, and we think that has to be read as a           whole to clearly focus on what is it that is the target            of the claim.               And that language is ­­ it does not become         ambiguous just because it might be challenging to apply         Alderson Reporting Company Official it in a particular fact pattern. I think this Court's             decision in Morgan is an excellent example of that where          the Court said we have a clear rule that requires us to             identify what was the alleged unlawful employment       practice and when did it occur, and that's the analysis          here.             JUSTICE KAGAN: I mean, this is an unusual          kind of claim, and it's an unusual kind of claim because           there are predicate acts and then there is also a          resignation which clearly has to occur before the suit         can be brought. And when there is this, you know, this            composite set of things that has to go on before a suit,             it seems to me that it's at least approaching the kind           of possible ambiguous ­­ ambiguous stage to say, yeah,         that's a matter, that's a practice that both of those            things have to be part of it.                   MS. CARROLL: I think that that's difficult         to reconcile with how Morgan treated the word        "practice." Always bearing in mind, as the Court has          explained in a case like Graham County, for instance,          the kind of ambiguity that triggers resort to a default           accrual rule is ambiguity in the literal text of the          provision. There it was unclear whether a particular          limitations period even applied and the Court said,        literal text is ambiguous, there are clues that point in          Alderson Reporting Company Official one direction, we think this default rule points in the          same direction.              But the Court hasn't applied that background       rule to override language that's ­­ that otherwise        clearly calls for an analysis of, in this case, what is           it that the plaintiff alleged to be discriminatory.                    Here, Mr. Green alleged a discrete act of         retaliation that he says occurred in December of .         He alleges no repeated or cumulative acts of        discrimination subsequent to that date and so ­­                   JUSTICE GINSBURG: What about that he hasn't        got a claim? He can't even ­­ you can't come to court              with a claim for constructive discharge until you've         said I'm discharged. So he ­­ you're suggesting that          the time runs from a time when he does not yet have a              ripe claim.              MS. CARROLL: Well, we does not have a ripe           claim for constructive discharge. He would have a ripe           claim for discrimination or retaliation to challenge the        underlying predicate acts, and in this position ­­                   JUSTICE KENNEDY: But then are you saying        that constructive discharge will ­­ will lead to a cause           of action only when it is so close to the precipitating           event that they are almost contemporaneous?                  MS. CARROLL: I'm not percent sure I         Alderson Reporting Company Official followed the question, but let me ­­                  JUSTICE KENNEDY: When, under your view,       when is there a constructive discharge that itself leads          to triggering the statute of limitations?                  MS. CARROLL: I think in a constructive          discharge case ­­ and to be clear, that label can be           applied to a range of different fact patterns ­­ it will            often be the case that the predicate conduct that         precipitates the resignation is itself alleged to be        discriminatory. Take the facts of Suders, for instance,         where there was an ongoing pattern of harassing        behavior. Individual acts contributing to that hostile        work environment had occurred leading up to and indeed         on I believe the very day of the resignation. There, I             think it is, as Your Honor suggests, not going to matter           at all which rule the Court were to adopt in this case.                        JUSTICE KENNEDY: They're almost     contemporaneous.             MS. CARROLL: They would be contemporaneous.       But in a case like this, it's much clearer to see the             conceptual distinction between Mr. Green's own      individual independent decision to resign and his       employer's predicate discriminatory conduct. And in       Suders, the Court made very clear that those were two          distinct components of a constructive­discharge claim.       Alderson Reporting Company Official             And I think, you know, the Petitioner and         the government's position asks the Court to extend the         legal fiction that equates constructive discharge.                  JUSTICE BREYER: Well, the matter complained       of here is a constructive discharge. In a tort suit or              many the matter complained of is negligent behavior        leading to an injury. I take it in the tort suit the              statute of limitations doesn't begin to run until there         is harm.              MS. CARROLL: I think that's generally true         of tort suits ­­               JUSTICE BREYER: All right. If that's        generally true in a tort suit, and my guess is in a             contract suit for breach of contract, if the contracting         party sent the ships out and you knew that it wouldn't           be delivered, it's not actionable until it isn't        delivered and I guess there are ways around that, but my            point is generally in the law where the matter         complained of is a certain kind of incident in the           world, negligence leading to harm, action of a        discriminatory, et cetera, nature that leads to a        discharge, normally the statute of limitations begins to        run when the harm occurs.                 Now why should it be any different here?                    MS. CARROLL: In this case, the       Alderson Reporting Company Official discrimination, the retaliation I should say, that was         challenged was the forcing ­­ forcing of Mr. Green into          the settlement agreement in December. He alleges that         that was retaliatory and he was harmed by that at that           time, and he could have promptly initiated counseling on         that complaint.              Now, it is true that, as a consequence of          that discriminatory retaliatory conduct, the stakes got       higher for him at a later point when he decided ­­                       JUSTICE BREYER: Of course, he could have,        but we're talking about only the constructive discharge        part. I mean, sometimes defendants do seven bad things           at once, or at least allegedly bad.                   MS. CARROLL: That's correct, but ­­                  JUSTICE BREYER: And we're only talking       about one of them, the one that we're talking about is           the constructive­discharge claim.               So I go back to my question about         negligence, because that was the first course I took in           law school so I remember that, but the ­­ the fact is             why should we treat this any differently?                   MS. CARROLL: So, in general, we don't this         should be analyzed any differently than any other kind         of claim, which is that we have to identify what is the            alleged unlawful practice and when did it occur. Why is           Alderson Reporting Company Official that? Because ­­               JUSTICE BREYER: Because you have to, as you         said, in the a tort case it's not just that the person             behaved negligently, but that negligence had to result        in a harm.                            MS. CARROLL: And ­­    JUSTICE BREYER: So I'm just ­­ that's the         only simpleminded analogy I'm drawing and I wonder why          it doesn't work.               MS. CARROLL: I think it does work because          in this case there was retaliation alleged in December         that harmed Mr. Green at that time. He later suffered a            more painful consequence, which under Ricks does not        trigger a new construct ­­ a new statute of limitations.                                    But I want to go back ­­       JUSTICE ALITO: Suppose there was evidence       that the employer had a continuing intent to force          Mr. Green's resignation. So you've got emails that say,          Mr. Green is causing trouble for us by charging us with           discrimination, we're going to do A, B, C, D and E to              force him to retire. And then on the day when he quits             there is another email that says, Hallelujah, we've        achieved our objective, he's retired.                             Now when would it run in that situation?        MS. CARROLL: I think if ­­       Alderson Reporting Company Official             JUSTICE BREYER: Wouldn't it run from the        date of discharge because there would be an intent at ­­          as of that date?                MS. CARROLL: But if I'm understanding the        hypothetical correctly, that sounds to me like a case          that would be analyzed under the Court's decision in         Morgan, where you have an environment of hostility that         is composed of many individual acts, some of which might          not be independently actionable in and of themselves,        joined with a discriminatory ­­                 JUSTICE ALITO: Let me clarify it. So         nothing more is done. There are all these acts up to a             certain point, and then days, days pass and the           employee resigns, but the employer has all along had the          intention of forcing the resignation. So on the date of           the resignation the employer intends to cause a        discharge for discriminatory reason.                MS. CARROLL: I still think Morgan answers         that question because Morgan says there has to be an act           contributing to the hostile work environment that occurs        within the ­­ within the charging period. And that's           the exact same analysis whether on the th day the          employee decides that's it, I quit, or if he simply           decides that's it, I'm finally going to speak up about          this hostile work environment that's being been going        Alderson Reporting Company Official on. It has nothing to do with constructive discharge.                      JUSTICE BREYER: That's the ­­ now, I'm        getting this more clearly because your response to my         question, which is now relevant to this too, is, look,          the plaintiff was hurt on the very day that last act was            performed, indeed he suffered because he saw the act         being performed, and that was one of the things that led           him later to quit.                So let's count that as the injury. And         let's count the whole thing complete as of that time.          That's basically the argument for your side, I think.                         And now the argument against you is that's     going to be a nightmare. Because there will be in fact             a whole range of acts, a whole series in many cases and             will then, in order to run the statute of limitations,          have to get into the question of which of those acts ­­           maybe there were some he didn't know about ­­ which of           those acts actually did produce harm and which did not.          And he just really won't know when to bring his lawsuit           as compared with the comparatively simple thing: He         quits.             MS. CARROLL: Right, I understand that        contention, but I think that the so­called difficulty is          no different than the difficulty, so­called, that would        arise in a hostile work environment case where there was           Alderson Reporting Company Official no resignation. You would still have to ­­                                JUSTICE BREYER: Yes, that's true.      MS. CARROLL: ­­ figure out what ­­ were         there acts within the ­day period that contributed to         the environment. Maybe that's going to be difficult on          some facts, but that's a result of this Court's decision           in Morgan, again, nothing to do with constructive        discharge.                         Now, with respect to ­­    JUSTICE KAGAN: There's something more than       just simplicity, which is, you know, suppose you had a          case where somebody is first demoted and then somebody         is fired. You would never say, oh, he was demoted. He             suffered the injury then, it just raised the stakes.         You would say, no, there's two independent things and         now he can bring a termination claim.                                MS. CARROLL: That's right.     JUSTICE KAGAN: And the power of the        constructive­discharge claim is to say the exact same        thing really has happened here, that once you lose the          job, it's more than the stakes have been raised. It's           that there is a separate injury that then becomes          legally actionable.              MS. CARROLL: Well, the analysis when there        is a demotion followed by a termination is not simply            Alderson Reporting Company Official that there's been a second separate injury, but that          there's been a second separate violation of Title VII by           the employer. That's why it is a discrete unlawful           employment action triggering a fresh limitations period.                     In constructive discharge, you know, the     analysis that the second separate event, the employee's        decision to resign is itself the actionable thing, that         is the analysis that the court of appeals had applied in           Suders. In Suders the question was: Do we treat           constructive discharge as a tangible employment action        for purposes of determining vicarious liability. The        Third Circuit said, well, yes, we treat these as         equivalents for all intents and purposes, so naturally,        when there's a constructive discharge, that means        there's been a tangible employment action.                   This Court rejected that analysis and said,       no, the legal fiction does not extend that far. To be            sure, the Court says, we treat those two the same for           remedial purposes in the sense that an employee who has          been constructively discharged can recover for that to        the same degree and for the same extent as if he or she             had been actually discharged.                That makes sense because you have this       background duty to mitigate and, in the circumstance of         a constructive discharge, we don't think the employee        Alderson Reporting Company Official should be tagged with the consequences of having, you         know, so­called failed to mitigate damages. But        that's ­­ that's the purpose of the legal fiction ­­                     JUSTICE KAGAN: But if we're going to say,         yes, these are different and for some purposes we're         going to look to the fiction and for other purposes          we're not going to look to the fiction, it seems to me            as though here it makes sense to take account of the           fiction in the sense that the person cannot bring a          claim until the resignation has happened.                  So that's the kind of paradigmatic case in        which, boy, there is something really powerful pushing        that, yes, you can ­­ you should recognize the         constructive discharge as a discharge in this case.                     MS. CARROLL: But the limitations period       here does not run from the accrual of the claim, it runs            from the time of the matter alleged to be         discriminatory, the unlawful employment action. And as        this Court explained in Suders, the constructive       discharge entails both predicate discrimination ­­ and       we do think it has to be independently actionable. We           think the Court recognized that when it said in Suders          that for Ms. Suders to prove her hostile work         environment claim was quoting necessary predicate to her        constructive discharge claim, and that's also the       Alderson Reporting Company Official uniform holding in the courts of appeals. There has to           be predicate, unlawful conduct by the employer and a         subsequent decision by the employee to resign.                   When you have a provision that singles out         as the start of the limitations period one of those two           components, then the fact that the claim hasn't accrued         yet is not something that the Court can rely on to           override that clear language. I think this Court's          decision in Pillsbury is a really excellent example of          that, where under the Longshoremen's Act, there was a         provision that ran from the time of injury. And the           plaintiffs pointed out, well, that we can't actually        recover compensation for our injury until a disability         has manifested, so we should say that we should         interpret injury to mean disability. And the Court         said, well, no. I mean, it's true that that will run             the limitation period before the claim can accrue, but         the language says what it says.                  For what it's worth here, I don't think that          this reading is actually going to cut off claims except          in cases of, you know, real lack of diligence, because          here, it's not the case that there's no claim available          after the initial act of discrimination by the employer,         there is a claim available, the employee can initiate          counseling on that, and as a matter of the conciliation           Alderson Reporting Company Official policy, he or she ought to do that promptly in order to            bring about the best chance of a prompt and informal           reconciliation.             JUSTICE SCALIA: The language we're focusing       on here is the language of a regulation. What statutory            language does that regulation implement?                 MS. CARROLL: The cause of action for        Federal employees in e­(c), if I have that right,          requires that, it extends a cause of action to Federal           employees who have been aggrieved by the final decision         of an agency that has been produced through this         administrative process that is all a design of ­­ of           EEOC regulations.              So there, the ­­ unlike in the private        sector provision, the charging period here is purely a         creature of the regulation. The time limit that exists          in the statute on the Federal sector side is only the           time limit for bringing the lawsuit once you have been          aggrieved by the final agency decision.                  CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You say this isn't        going to be a problem much. I think it's going to be a                problem a lot of times. People are in jobs and they're,             you know, suffering this particular type of adverse work         environment or discrimination, but quitting your job is        a very big deal. I think you have to plan out when              Alderson Reporting Company Official that's going to be, and just because you can't take it           anymore doesn't mean that you could quit work right         away.             MS. CARROLL: But this rule doesn't require        you to quit in order to be able to raise and seek            resolution.             CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Oh, sure, it doesn't        require you to quit, it just requires you to tell your           boss, you know, I can't take this anymore. And now I've             got to conciliate with you, but, you know, it creates          complications in the workforce if you raise that type of          issue.             MS. CARROLL: It can. I mean, to be clear,            the EEOC regulations require that this must be all done          anonymously until the complaining employee says      actually, please go ahead and tell my employer so that          we can try to pursue alternative ­­                  CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I suspect most        employers could figure out who is complaining in these         types of situations.               MS. CARROLL: Well, be that as it may, I          think the policy underlying this provision is the        recognition that the purpose of all of this is to try to            prevent discrimination and to correct it as soon as it          has occurred. It is unquestionably a very short          Alderson Reporting Company Official provision, and the Court recognized in Morgan that this         very short provision exists because of the recognition        that we want these sorts of alleged discriminatory,        retaliatory circumstances to be addressed right away.       There are safeguards built in. This provision, I think           probably unique among statutes of limitations that I        know of, actually mandates that it be extended if, for          example, the employee didn't know about the time limit         or didn't know ­­ didn't have a reasonable basis to           suspect discrimination.              CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What ­­ what is your         position on the government's stance?                 factual ­­                         MS. CARROLL: On the legal question or the         CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Factual question.      MS. CARROLL: We haven't taken a position on          that because the court of appeals didn't ­­ didn't find          it necessary to do so. You know, we ­­                     CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I think it's an         example of the difficulty of trying to figure out when          the discrimination occurred if you have this last­act        kind of thing.               MS. CARROLL: Well, to the contrary, I think          their dispute has a risen because they're trying to          apply the date­of­resignation rule and are finding it        Alderson Reporting Company Official difficult to agree on when that resignation occurred.                    As I ­­ as I said earlier, I think in our ­­              under the rule that the court of appeals adopted in this           case, we think it asks the Court or the agency to engage            in precisely the same inquiry that it would have to do           whether ­­ even if there had not been a constructive           discharge. It's still, in every case, about identifying         what is the alleged violation of the statute.                    JUSTICE GINSBURG: What do you do with        Suders that seemed to distinguish two things; one was         the hostile environment, and the second was the        constructive discharge. And the Court said that that ­­         that the hostile environment is a lesser included         component of the more serious constructive­discharge      claim.             MS. CARROLL: May I respond?                     I think Suders recognized that Ms. Suders      had to prove up both pieces. She had to prove unlawful            conduct by the employer, namely, a severe and pervasive          change in the terms and conditions of her employment         amounting to a hostile work environment, and she had to           meet the constructive discharge standard. And if the         Court's intent in saying so had been to equate         constructive discharge with actual discharge for all       intents and purposes, then I don't see how the Court           Alderson Reporting Company Official could have come to the conclusion that the affirmative         defense is ­­ is ever available.                              CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.       Mr. Wolfman, four minutes.               REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF BRIAN WOLFMAN                    ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER                 MR. WOLFMAN: Your Honor, if I might, I          would like to begin where we ended. Suders considered          and then recognized a claim for constructive discharge,         what we would call in the old days a cause of action.             At pages and , the Court said it was considering           whether a claim for constructive discharge lies under         Title VII.              And then it ­­ it holds, we agree with the          lower courts and the EEOC that Title VII encompasses         employer liability for constructive discharge. Not       simply damage enhancing, but liability for constructive       discharge.               I do want to turn to, Mr. Chief Justice,        your question about the government's position on the        date of resignation. It is not entirely correct that          the Tenth Circuit did not address this. At Petition          Appendix A, here's what the Tenth Circuit said: That          shortly after being put on leave he signed a settlement           agreement under which he would choose either to retire         Alderson Reporting Company Official or to work in a position that paid much less and was             about miles away. That was the premise on which           the ­­             JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I'm sorry. That's true,        and that's why I thought ­­                              MR. WOLFMAN: Yes.    JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: ­­ that was an open        question. But the government, Mr. Gannon says that in          fact the district court said that you chose to retire          on ­­ in December, and you didn't appeal that finding by           the district court.               MR. WOLFMAN: That is not correct. The         district court was of two minds on the question. At one            point it ­­ it indicated that his ­­ his agreement was a            resignation. At another point ­­ and this is in other           reply brief ­­ the district court said the exact         opposite. It said what the Tenth Circuit said. And the            district court opinion, its legal ruling is not premised         on that ­­ what the government is saying is a finding.                        Now, let me also say that the EEO decision         in this case, that is the Postal Service itself said ­­          this is at the Joint Appendix ­­ a fair reading of             the agreement reveals that he was given the choice to          retire or to report to a new job, and was allowed to             continue his career.   Alderson Reporting Company Official                         Unless the Court has anything further.      JUSTICE BREYER: What is your response to        her ­­ I think she's saying in most of these cases there             is a hostile work environment. Where there is a hostile             work environment you have days from the last act, and           so what we should do is look at this injury as simply            one more injury caused by a hostile work environment.          And just as you don't look at the date of injury there,            you look to the environment, et cetera, we so do the           same thing here. It's simpler, et cetera.                    MR. WOLFMAN: Right. There are two answers         to that, Justice Breyer. First of all, I do want to             challenge the premise of the seven illustrative cases        cited in Suders, illustrative for constructive      discharge. Three of them were standalone constructive        discharges, untethered to any other claim; that's       number .              Number , even if you have what this Court         in Suders called a subset of constructive discharge         cases, that is one arising out of a hostile work           environment, they are still distinct claims. That's        really the point of Suders. They're distinct claims,         they're separately actionable, and we know they're       separately actionable because the constructive­discharge     claim is not actionable until resignation.      Alderson Reporting Company Official                                     Unless the Court has anything further.      CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.       Ms. Carroll, this Court appointed you to       brief and argue this case as an amicus curiae in support           of the judgment below. You have ably discharged that          responsibility, for which the Court is grateful.                               The case is submitted.    (Whereupon, at : p.m., the      case in the   above­entitled matter was submitted.)    Alderson Reporting Company Official OfficialPage  A a.m : : ability : able : : : : : : add : added : addition : additional : : : : APPEARANCES : : : : based : basic : basically : basis : applied : : Bay : Appendix : : : : : : bearing : : : allegedly : : alleges : : allegized : ably : above­entitled : address : : allowed : : : : Absolutely : accept : account : : accrual : : addressed : administrative alternative : :, : : : : ambiguity : : : :, applies :, : apply :, adopt : : : ambiguous : :, :, : : : :,, applying : adopted : : amend :, : : began : begins : behalf :, : :,, : : : behaved : behavior : : : adopting : adversarial : accrue : accrued : accrues :, achieved : acknowledged : adverse : act : : : :,,,, : :, : : :,, : :, : : :, :, : action : : advocating : affirm : affirmative : aggravated : aggrieved : agency : : : : : :, :, amending : amicus : : appointed : approach : approaching : benefit : : believe :, : amounting : analogue : analogy : analysis : : : : : :, analyzed : : : : :, appropriate : : : : area : : : besieged : best : big : : bonus : boss : bought : argue : argued : arguing : : boy : argument : : breach : : :,, :, : : : breached : :, : :, : Brennan : : Breyer :, : :, : :, : : : : :, :, : : : : :,, : :, : actionable : : agree : : : : : agreement :, annual : anonymously : :,, : answer : : : :, : answers : : :, : agrees : : antecedent : anticipates : anymore : : : ahead : arising : asking : : : asks : : Assistant : assume : : attempts : available :, :, :, : : : :, BRIAN : :, : : brief : : : bring : : :, : :, :, :, : : : : : :, : : : Alito : : :,, : : : : :,,,, : :,, :,, : acts : : : : : : : :, : :, :, : : actual : : :, : : :, :, : : :, : anyway : apart : appeal : : back : : appealed : B : : B allege : alleged : :,, appeals : : :,, : broadly : :, : : bad : :, brought :, : : : : : : :,, : : :, background : bringing : balance : : : : : : Alderson Reporting Company Alderson Reporting Company built : business : C C : : : Cal : call : called :, : calls : career : Carroll : : Official : : cites : : : comfort : commits : common : :, :, : : : : : :, : : : :, : caused : causing : certain : : certainly : : : cause : : : claim : :, : :, : :, :, :, :, :, : : communicated : : : :,, : : :,, : :,,, compared : :,, : :, :, :,,,, complained :, : :, :, :, complaining : :, :, :, : :, :, : : comparatively complaint :, challenge : compensation : : :, : : : Page  : consequence : : : consequences : : consider : consideration : considered : considering : : considers : consistent :, constitutes : construct : constructive : :,, : : : : :,, : :, :,, :,, : : : :, :, :,, : :,, :, :,,,, :,,,,, : :,, :, : :, :, : :, : : : : : :,, : :,, :,,, :,,, :,, constructive­disc... : : : : : : constructively : : cetera : : :,, : : :, :, :, :, :, : :, : :,, : : : :, :, change :, : : : challenged : challenging : chance : : : : : case : : :, charge : : : charging : :, : : :, : : : Chief :, : :, : : :,, :, : : :, :,, : :,, : :, : : : : : : :, : :,, :, : :, : :, : choice : : : : : : :, : : : : : : : :, choose : : chose : circle : claimants : complaints : claims : :, complete :, :, : : :, : :, clarify : classical :, classically : clause : clauses : clear : :, : :, : : : :, : : : : : complexity : : complications : component : : : components : : composed : composite : conceptual : concern :, clearer : clearly : : concerns : : : : client : : clock : : : conciliate : conciliation : :,, :, : : : cases : : :,, : Circuit :, : : : : : : : : : : : : :, Circuit's : : : : circuits : : :, : : : :, close : : clues : coerces : circumstance : coercing : circumstances : : : cognizant : colloquy : come : : CATHERINE : cited : : :, : concluded : conclusion : conditions : conduct : : : : : : : :, : :, :, : : contention : construed : contemporaneous Alderson Reporting Company Official :,,, :, :,, Court's : : : :, : design : : : : determining : : : : dice : : : : days : :, : : : : : : : : : :, :, : : court­appointed : : : : courts : : deal : December : : : : : : : : : decided : : : : decides : : differently : context : : : continue : continued : continuing : contract : :, contracting : contrary : contrast : contributed : contributing : : dictionaries : difference : : : : discharging : : : Page  discharged : :, : :, : discharges : : discrete : : discriminated : : discriminating : discrimination :, : : :, : :, : :,, : :, : : : : : : :, discriminatory : :,,, : :,,, :,,, : :,, : : : :,,, : :, : : :, : : differences : different :, : :, : : : : : : : : difficult : : : : : difficulty :, : diligence : direction :, directions : directive : directly : disability :, disagreement : : :,, : : discussion : discussed : discussing : :, : : :, : : : :, :,, : :,, : : :,, :,, :, :,, : : : : :, :, : : : dispute : disputed : :, :, :,, : disputes :,, :, : : distinct : :,,, :,,, :,,,, :,,, :, dismiss : dismissed : dispositive : distinction : :, : distinguish : distinguishes : : decisionmaker cut : : : default :, : discharge : : : : : : :,, :, : : :, : : : : : :, :, : : :, :, : : : : : : : covenant : controls : correct : : creates : : deciding : : : : : : : creature : : : : crossed : crosses : cumulative : curiae : : correctly : counsel : : : : decision :, counseling :, : : :, : : : current : CURTIS : : counselor : count :, counts : County : course : : : :, D D : : D.C :,, court :, :, damage : damages : defendants : defense : definitive : : : : : : :, : : : :, : :, : : date : :, : : : : :, :,,,, :, :,, :,,,, :,, : :, :, :, : :,, : : :, :, :,, dates : : : : day : :, : :,, : :,,,,, degree : :, : delay : :, :, delivered :, : : : demoted :, : : : demotion : :,, : : : denial : date­of­resignation denied : Department : described : describing : Alderson Reporting Company Official :, : Evans : : event : : : :, everybody : evicted : eviction : : employees :, employees' : employer :, :, :,,, :,,,,, : : : : : : :,, : :, : :, : :,, : : : : exact : :, : : : : : : : :,,, :,,,, evidence : : : : : exactly : : employer's : employers : : example : : :, : : : : :, : : exist : exists :,, : : explained : encompasses : explain : ended : : engage : enhancing : entails : entire : : : : : : extend : : district :, : :,, :, doctrine :, doing : door :, drawing : duty :,, : E E : :, :, : : earlier : early : easy :, : : : : : : : : : EEOC's : : effect : : effective : effectively : : either : : elaborate : elements : : : :, : eligible : email : emails : employee : : EEO : EEOC :,, employment :, excellent : : :, : experience : first : : far : fault : February : fed : Federal :, : :,, feel :, fiction : : : :,,, fight : figure : : : : final : : : finally : : find : : : finding : : :, fine : : fire : fired : : : : : : : fit : five : focus :, focused :, focusing : follow : followed : : force :, forced :, : : : forcing :, : form : formed : : : four : fours : franchise :, Frankly : fresh : Page  Friday : : friend : : : fully : :, further : : : future : G G : Gannon : : :,, :, :, :, : :,, :,,, :, :, : :,, :, : :, :, : : : :, :, :,, : :,, : :, : general :, : generally : : :,, getting : : Ginsburg : :, : : :,, : : : give : : given : : : : : : : gives : giving : : : :, go : : : : : : : : going : : : : : : :, : : entirely : environment : : :,,, : : : :, : : : : :,, : :,,, equate : equates : equating : equitable :, equivalents : : :, : :, : : : : : : :, : : : : : : : :, : :, :, :, ESQ :,, : : : :,, employee's : et : :, extended : extends : extension : extent : F fact : :, :, : : : : : : facts : : :, : : factual : : :, failed : fair : fairly : Alderson Reporting Company Official : informal : initial : initiate :, : : initiated : initiating : inject : injects : injury : : :, : :,, : :, innovation : inquiry : instance :, : : : : : intends : intent : : : intention : : : intentional :, intents : : interfere : interpret : interpreted : interpreting : intolerable : : intuition : invokes : involving : Irwin :, issue : : : J J : job : : : : : : : Page  judgment : : keep : : : Kennedy :, : :,, :,,, :, : : :, kind :, : :,, : : : : knew : :, :, :, : : :, : : : : : : : :,,, : Justice : :, : :,,, :,, : : :,,, : : :,, : kicks : :,,, : :, :, :, :, :, :,,, : know : : :,,,, :, :, :,, : :,, : :,,, : :,,, :,,, :,,,, :,, : : :,, :, :, : :,, :, : : :,, : :,, :, :,, : :,, :, :, : :, :, :, :, :, : :, : :,, : :, : : :,, : :, : : :, : Laundry : law : : : : L label : lack : landlord : language :, : : : :, : :, :,, last­act : : last­date­of : last­day­of­work knows :,,, : lawsuit : : laypeople : lead : : leading : : : leads : : : leave : : : : leaving :, Justice's : K Kagan :,,, : :, : :, : Kagan's : holds : Honor : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : :, : :, : : :, : : :, : : : hostile : : : : :,,, : : : : : : :,, : :,, gotten : : government : government's : : :, : : Graham : grateful : graver : Green : : :,, : : : : : Green's : : grounds : guess :, guidance : H Hallelujah : hand : handled : hands : : happen : happened : :, : : : : happens :, harassing : hard : harm :,, : : harmed : : head : hear : held : : higher : holding :, : hostility : hurt : hypothesizing : hypothetical : I idea : : identify : : : identifying : : illustrative : : implement : implications : imputation : imputed :, : : : : : incentives : incident : : included : : : including : inclusion : independent : : independently : : : : indicated : : : : indicates : individual :, Joint : : jobs : joined : Alderson Reporting Company Official Page  : lower : : Morgan : : objective : obviously : : : :, : ought : : : : :, outside :,, : : : : override : : personal : overwhelmed : Alderson Reporting Company : :, occurring : letter : : March : : nature : : occurs : : liability : necessarily : M led : : Ledbetter : left : legal : : : :,, : : motion : M.A : : : motive : : : : Mac's : : move : moved : : : making : legally : moves : management : legitimate : mandates : lesser : let's : : : manifested : : N N :, : naturally : : MARVIN : materially : matter : :, necessary : : :, lies : life : light :, limit :, : limitation : limitations : : :,, : :, :, mean : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : :,,,,,, : : : :,,,, need : : : : : negligence : :, : : : : : negligent : negligently : nevertheless : : : : never : :,, : : : : new : :, : :, : :, : : : : :, :, nightmare : non­Federal : : normally : noted : notice : :, limits : line : literal :, litigated : litigation : little : loading : : : longer : : Longshoremen's minds : minutes : means : meet : MEGAN : mentioning : miles : : mind : : : look : :, miserable : : : :, mitigate : : :,, looks : lose : : loses : lot : : lots : : : : :, : : : : notification : : moment : Monday : : November : months : notion : number :, O O : : : paradigmatic : : parallel : paramount : parcel : : occur :, : Pardon : : part : : : occupying : :, : : occurred :, : : : :, : : particular : : : : : : : : : : parties : party : : pass : pattern : : : : : of­work : oh : : : : old : once : : patterns : pay : : paycheck : : : : pending : people : : percent : perfectly : performed :, ongoing : open : operate : operative : opinion : : period : :, OPM : : :, : : :, opposed : : : : opposite : option : : : : : : : : :, : : oral : :,, : : : order : : : periods : person : : : : :, : : : : pervasive : Petition : petitioner :, :, : : : : : : : Petitioner's : : phrase : P P : p.m : page : : pages : : paid : : painful : phrased : phraseology : pieces : Pillsbury : plaintiff :, : : : : plaintiffs : plan : please : : : : Plus : point : : : : : : : :, :, : pregnant : prejudiced : premise : : : premised : premises : : : : : : : present : : : : : : : : presented : presents : : :, : presuppose : prevent : principal : principle : principles : prior : : private :,, pointed : points : : policy : : portion : posited : positing : position : : : : : : : probably : : : : : : problem : : :, proceeded : process : : : : produce : produced : prompt : promptly : : : possibility : : possible : : :, : Postal : : : : POSTMASTER : power : powerful : practical : practicality's : practice : : : : : : : : :,, : precipitates : precipitating : provision :, :, : :, : : : : : :,, : : : provisions : Page  range : : rationale :, reached :, reaching : read : : : : reading : : reads : : real : real­world : reality : really : : rejecting : related : relationship : relevant : : : : : rely : remand : remedial : remedy :, remember : : repeated : : : : reply : : : report :,, reason : : : : : :,, : : : reasonable : : reasons : REBUTTAL : : recognition : : recognize : recognized : : : : : reconcile : reconciliation : recover : : refer : : referring : : refers : : reflect : regular : regulation : : :,,, : : : :, : reprinted : require :,, requires :,, : : : reserve : resign :, :, :, :,, : : : : : : : : : resignation :, : :, : :, :, :, : :, :, :,, :, :,,, : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : resigned : : :,, resigning : regulations : : : resigns : :, rejected : : : purposes : :,, : : : pursue : pushing : put : Q question : :, :, : : :, :, :, : : : :, : :, : :, questions : quickly : quit : : : : :, : :, : : : :,, quite : : quits : : quitting :, :,, :, : :, : :, : quote : R R : raise :, raised : : : ran : Official precisely : provoking : predicate : : : : public : pulled : purely : purpose : : promulgated : quoting : prove : : : Alderson Reporting Company Official severe : :,, : : : :,, Shell : :, : :,, :, : : : : :,,, :,, : : :,, :, :, side :, : : :, : ships : short : : shorthanded : shortly : showed : shows : : signed : : significant : :, : : : : :, :, : : : rule : :,, : : : : :,, : :,, : :, :,, :, :, :,, :, :,,, scenario : : : : :, : : : : : :,, schoolteacher :, :, : : : : score : second : : : school : : : simple : : simpleminded : statement : simpler : simplicity : simply :,, Page  stage : stages :, stakes : : : stale : :, stance : stand : standalone : standard : Stanford : start : : starts : : state : stated : States :, station : statute :,, : : : : :, : : : :, : : : : statutes : : statutory : stays : steps : : : Stevens : stretch : resolution : : resort : respect : : : respond : Respondent : : : responding : response : : responsibility : rest : result : : : retaliation :, : : retaliatory :, : retire : : : : : :, retired : : retirement : : retiring : retreating : reveals : reverse : revived : Ricks :, : :,, :, :, : : : :, : ridiculous : right : : :, : : : : : : : : : : ripe :,, rise : risen : road : ROBERTS : : : : : : : singles : situation : : : : situations : : : six : so­called :, : Solicitor : somebody : ruling : run :, : : : : : running : runs : : : : :, : :,, : sector :,, :, :, :, S see : : seek : S : : self­limiting : safeguards : sense : :, sake : :, :, satisfies : sensible :, satisfy : sent : saw : sentence : saying : : : :,, : : : sentences : : : : separate : : : : : :,, : : : submitted :, : subsequent : soon : : : : sorry : sort : separately :, sorts : separation :, Sotomayor :, :, : : series : serious : : : : : :,,, :,, :, says : :, : :,, :,, : :, : : : : : Service : : : : : : : : : : set : : :, : settlement : : sounds : speak : specify :, squares : : : : seven : : subset : succeed : Suders : : : :, : :, :, :, :, : :,, : :,, suffer : suffered : : : suffering : : Alderson Reporting Company : : : Scalia : :, Official :,, :, : : Third : thought : : three : : :,, : : : : : : : :, : : : : try : :, trying : : : turn : : two : :, :, : : : : : : : : : : : : thrown : thrust : ticking : time :, : : : : : :, : : : : : : types : : : type : : time­honored : timeliness : : U unclear : underlying : Page  usually :, V v : : version :, : : vicarious : view : : VII : : : : :, : :, violation : : virtues : W wait : walked : want :, : :, : : : : : : sufficiently : suggested : : : suggesting : : : suggests : : suit :, :, :, suits : superior : support : : : : tenure : : term : : : terminal : termination :, : : : :, : :, : : : : : :, terminations : terms : text :, suppose : : Thank : : : : theory : thing : : :, : : : : things :, : : :, : : : : : : Supreme :, sure : : : : suspect : : synonymous :, T T :, tagged : take :, : : :,, :, : : : : :, :, : : : : : :, taken :, : : takes : talking : :, :,, talks : tangible :, target : teacher : tell : : : :, tenant : Tenth : : : : : : : :, : : timely : times : title : : : understand : wants : : : : : : : understanding : : : warranted : warranty : : : undisputed : Washington :, unequivocal : uniform : unique : : United :, wasn't :, :, : treat : :, unlawful : : : : : : : : : : : We'll : trigger : : : unnecessary : way : : : : : : : ways : : we're : : : : : :, : :,, : we've : weak : : weeks : : : unprecedented : unquestionably : untethered : unusual : :, : : :, went : urge : use : useful : weren't : : whichever : win : : treated : : : : : tolling :, tort :,,, think : :, : : : :, :, today :, :, : : :, :,, : :,, : : :,, :, :, : : : :, : :, :, : : :, :, :, :,, : :,, : :,, : : : : : :, :, : :, : :, :, :, : triggers : trouble : true :, : : : : : : : : : : : triggering : :, : : triggered : : Alderson Reporting Company Page  Official : : :, :, wishes : : Wolfman : : : : years : :, : :,,, :,,, : :, : : : :,, : :, :,, :, : : :, :,, : :,, :,, :, :, :,, : :, :, : wonder : word : : words : work : :, : : : :,,, : : : : :, : : : : : : :,,, workforce : working : works : world : worth : wouldn't : : : : : : : written :, wrong : wrongly : Wyoming : : x :, X Y yeah : : year :,,, : yielded : Z : : : : : : : :, ­ : : : : th : : : : : : e­(c) : : : : A : : : : st : : : : : : : : : : : ­day : : : : th : Alderson Reporting Company 