 Official        IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES        ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ x                                  UTAH,                              :             Petitioner                : No. ­         v.                          EDWARD JOSEPH STRIEFF, JR.            : : ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ x                                                         Washington, D.C.                         Monday, February ,                  The above­entitled matter came on for oral       argument before the Supreme Court of the United States         at : a.m.   APPEARANCES: TYLER R. GREEN, ESQ., Solicitor General, Salt Lake City,            Utah; on behalf of Petitioner.     JOHN F. BASH, ESQ., Assistant to the Solicitor General,               Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; for United       States, as amicus curiae, supporting Petitioner.      JOAN C. WATT, ESQ., Salt Lake City, Utah; on behalf of              Respondent. Alderson Reporting Company Official                                    C O N T E N T S ORAL ARGUMENT OF                                     TYLER R. GREEN, ESQ.     PAGE    On behalf of the Petitioner                            ORAL ARGUMENT OF   JOHN F. BASH, ESQ.          For United States, as amicus curiae,      supporting the Petitioner                            ORAL ARGUMENT OF   JOAN C. WATT, ESQ.       On behalf of the Respondent                            REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF   TYLER R. GREEN, ESQ.       On behalf of the Petitioner                            Alderson Reporting Company Official                                       P R O C E E D I N G S                                            (: a.m.)              CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument       next in Case ­, Utah v. Strieff.                   Mr. Green.               ORAL ARGUMENT OF TYLER R. GREEN                     ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER                 MR. GREEN: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it         please the Court:               Courts typically apply the exclusionary rule      to suppress unlawfully­seized evidence. The question       here is whether to suppress evidence lawfully seized in         a search incident to a warrant arrest because the          arresting officer found the warrant in a stop later          judged to be unlawful.                Under this Court's attenuation analysis,     such evidence is admissible when, as here, the predicate         stop was not flagrant but resulted from an objectively         reasonable miscalculation.                          Extending the exclusionary rule ­­    JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Tell me what was       objectively reasonable about it.                            MR. GREEN: Well, Your Honor ­­      JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I mean, the police        officer admits that the person he saw coming out of the           Alderson Reporting Company Official house in question wasn't doing anything. He didn't know          that he lived there, he didn't know what he had done, if            anything. He didn't even really know that there was          drug dealing going on in the house. He was trying to            figure that out. So what was objectively reasonable         about stopping this man?                MR. GREEN: Justice Sotomayor, we've      admitted that this was a miscalculation, but it was a           close call. If the officer here had stopped the first           person coming out of the house after receiving the tip,          that would have been objectively unreasonable under this        Court's case and decision in Alabama v. White.                    But this person wasn't the first person he        saw come out of the house. He had received the           anonymous tip and then had proceeded to corroborate it         through three hours of surveillance and observation over        the course of the ensuing week. And all of the traffic            he saw during those three hours was the same short­stay          traffic that was reported in the tip.                   Based on his training and experience, that       activity was consistent with drug ­­                 JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: It would be interesting       if he waited to see whether this was also a short­stay            visitor.             MR. GREEN: I think he would have ­­         Alderson Reporting Company Official             JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I don't see how this is          any different than stopping the first person you see.                     MR. GREEN: I think, Your Honor, as ­­ as           we've admitted, I think if he had seen it and it were             short stay, I think we may well beat the reasonable           suspicion, and I think that's why the prosecutor here          conceded that it wasn't.                But it was a close call based on everything          that he had seen to that point. And in these           circumstances, we think that's why ­­ where the        predicate conduct was a result of ­­ of misconduct that           was not ­­              JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: What's going to stop       police officers ­­ if we announce your rule, and your          rule seems to be, once we have your name, if there's a            warrant out on you, that's an attenuating circumstance        under every circumstance. What stops us from becoming a          police state and just having the police stand on the          corner down here and stop every person, ask them for          identification, put it through, and if a warrant comes          up, searching them?               MR. GREEN: I think ­­ Justice Sotomayor, I          think there are two answers to that question. First, I           think that our rule ­­ an officer can never count, under           our rule, on finding a warrant. So there is no            Alderson Reporting Company Official incentive for him to make that stop. If there's no           warrant and the stop is lawful ­­                  JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, if you have a town          like Ferguson, where percent of the residents have         minor traffic warrants out, there may be a very good           incentive for just standing on the street corner in         Ferguson and asking every citizen, give me your ID; let          me see your name. And let me hope, because I have an               percent chance that you're going to have a warrant.                      MR. GREEN: I understand, Your Honor. And          that's the second part of my answer, is that officers          can't count ­­ under our rule, a warrant by itself is            not sufficient. There still must be a separate inquiry           into whether the predicate stop was flagrant, and an         officer can't count in any particular stop on a judge           later concluding that the stop ­­                 JUSTICE KAGAN: But I assume, Mr. Green,         that there are a variety of circumstances in which          police officers would really like to talk to somebody         and really like to search them but don't have reasonable          suspicion. And I think that the question that          Justice Sotomayor is asking is if you're policing a         community where there is some significant percentage of        people who have arrest warrants out on them, it really          does increase your incentive to ­­ to make that stop on           Alderson Reporting Company Official the chance that there will be a warrant that will allow            you to search and admit whatever evidence you gained in          that search.              MR. GREEN: What ­­ Justice Kagan, I don't          think so. I think, again, if the ­­ if the inquiry             turns, as it does, on not only on finding a warrant, but             then a determination of whether the stop was flagrant,          the officer has no guarantee before he makes the stop          that a judge will later conclude the stop was not.                       JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, but this is an officer         who ­­ you say this is a close call. So let's say that               there are close calls. But you don't think you have           reasonable suspicion, or you think you maybe do if you          find a good judge out there, but ­­ but you ­­ there is              a reason why you want to talk. So this is not a             flagrant violation. This is not a dragnet search or           something like that. But you ­­ if ­­ if ­­ I mean, it               does change your incentives quite dramatically, it seems        to me, if you're policing a community where there is           some significant percentage of people who have arrest        warrants.             MR. GREEN: Justice Kagan, I think, with         respect, it doesn't. Officers know that the only         surefire way ­­ the incentive is always to comply with          the Fourth Amendment. That's the only way they can be           Alderson Reporting Company Official sure that the evidence they are gathering is later used          in a prosecution.                JUSTICE KAGAN: That's the only way they can         be absolutely sure. But ­­ but here, there's ­­ there's           some chance that they're going to find the arrest         warrant and then they're going to be able to admit the           evidence that they're going to get, whereas before,        there was none. And that some chance is not like a            once­in­a­blue­moon kind of chance. In these very        heavily­policed areas, it's ­­ I mean, I was staggered           by the number of arrest warrants that are out on people.           So it's, you know, a significant possibility that you're          going to find an arrest warrant and be able to admit           whatever drugs or guns or whatever it is you find.                      MR. GREEN: Well, I think, Your Honor, in          those circumstances, that's where the flagrancy inquiry       actually does the work of deterrence. Because as this          Court has explained, to be appropriate, suppression must        yield appreciable deterrence. There may be some        additional marginal deterrence that suppressing     everything following an event like this would yield, but         that's never been enough under this Court's precedence.                    JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Don't you think it's       enough of a deterrence to say to a police officer in             this situation, you should have reasonable suspicion?       Alderson Reporting Company Official You know the Fourth Amendment requires it. So before          you do an intrusive act demanding identification, you do         what you're permitted to do, which is just to ask the           person whether they'll talk to you. Don't you think          that that would improve the relationship between the        public and the police? Wouldn't that be the appropriate          encouragement we would give, if we don't let police do          these things in questionable situations?                 MR. GREEN: Well, Your Honor, I think that's          what the ­­ the existing rule on the exclusionary rule          itself does. It encourages officers to comport with the          Fourth Amendment. This applies to ­­                  JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: We're begrudging them      now from doing that. We're saying if you have          questionable probable cause, go ahead and do it because         we're not going to make you take that extra step of just            merely stopping someone and saying, will you talk to me,          please.             MR. GREEN: No. I don't think so, Your           Honor. I think, again, because there are two predicate           steps that must be ­­ that must happen before this          exception would apply. And the officer, before the         stop, can't count on either one. That's why when ­­          when we are talking about conduct here that is ­­ that           is admittedly a violation of the Fourth Amendment, but          Alderson Reporting Company Official low culpability, that's where the ­­ the additional        marginal deterrence that would come from suppression       doesn't do its work.                  And with respect to the particular type of      intervening circumstance here, this is a ­­ a compelling           intervening circumstance of the type that this Court        identified in its ­­ in its holding in Johnson v.          Louisiana. This ­­               JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Green, you make a        point that a person's name is not suppressible, and          evidence derived from just knowing the name is not         suppressible. If you're right about that, then the         police could stop anyone and say, whether I have          reasonable suspicion or not, I want to know your name ­­           and that's not suppressible ­­ then does the warrant         check, which you say is intervening circumstance. So it          seems that your argument is ­­ is arming the police with           asking every person what is your name and doing a          warrant check.              MR. GREEN: Well, Your Honor, it is, of         course, that's one of the purposes of a Terry stop, of            an investigatory stop, is to try to find a person's           name.             JUSTICE GINSBURG: I thought you needed        reasonable suspicion.  Alderson Reporting Company Official MR. GREEN: That's correct. That's right.        JUSTICE GINSBURG: This is a case where                                 you're telling us reasonable suspicion or not, the name,         a person's name, is not suppressible.                  MR. GREEN: That's right, Your Honor. But         it is admittedly the but­for link between the initial         predicate unlawful stop, and the later discovery of the         warrant, and the arrest on the warrant, which is the          intervening circumstance. That's why, Your Honor, we ­­        we think this is ­­ this falls comfortably within this          Court's prior attenuation jurisprudence. Just like       the ­­             JUSTICE KAGAN: So what is an intervening        circumstance, in your view? What is your test for what           it is?              MR. GREEN: Your Honor, I ­­ we think under           it's ­­ it's ­­ it flows naturally from this Court's          teaching in Wong Sun. That is, it's any means          sufficiently distinguishable from a predicate unlawful       act, such that suppressing evidence seized after it        would not yield appreciable deterrence.                 And this Court's cases ­­                JUSTICE KAGAN: Okay. And your view is that          we should look at the question of whether something is          an intervening circumstance through the deterrence lens.       Alderson Reporting Company Official That makes a lot of sense. We look at everything            through a deterrence lens with respect to the         exclusionary rule. And that, you know, what we're         supposed to say is this ­­ does this appreciably         increase deterrence or not; is that correct?                   MR. GREEN: That's the inquiry, Your Honor,        yes.             JUSTICE KAGAN: And I ­­ so I guess, then,            I'm back to my question. In a world in which finding             somebody with an outstanding arrest warrant was an        extremely low probability, you would be right. In a          world in which it was an extremely high probability, you          would be wrong.                 Then it seems like, where is this on the       spectrum? What do we know about that? It sure seems ­­            I mean, again, I will come back to this. I was              surprised beyond measure by how many people have arrest         warrants outstanding, and particularly in the kind of        areas in which these stops typically tend to take place.          So that, it seems to me, you know, is a pretty strong             argument for why this will increase deterrence.                   MR. GREEN: Your Honor ­­ again, I think,          Justice Kagan, the answer to that is the inquiry here in           attenuation is not just is there an intervening        circumstance. Under this Court's prior cases, there        Alderson Reporting Company Official still must be something else. And we think that          something else, following from this Court's teaching in        Brown, is a flagrancy inquiry: What level of          culpability does this conduct display?                             CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, Mr. Green ­­       JUSTICE KENNEDY: Do you think that       something else includes a subjective component, whether        there was a purpose to see if there was a warrant?                         MR. GREEN: We don't, Your Honor. We think          that that inquiry is inconsistent with the way this         Court's Fourth Amendment jurisprudence has evolved.      It's ­­                         JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So isn't flagrancy ­­      JUSTICE KENNEDY: Is it that ­­ it's true         that that would be a step maybe beyond our ­­ our ­­ our              cases.             On the ­­ on the other hand, if the inquiry          is one of flagrancy, then maybe that's necessary. And          it may be particularly necessary here because under the         line of questioning that Justice Kagan just concluded        with you, it would seem odd for this Court to say the            higher crime ­­ the more it's a high­crime area, the           less basis you have to stop. That's very odd.                                  MR. GREEN: Well, I think, Your Honor ­­         JUSTICE KENNEDY: So it seems to me that the          Alderson Reporting Company Official subjective­purpose component might serve an important      purpose here, so that a police officer can't just say,           I'm going to see if there's a warrant for this fellow.            I'm ­­ that's the reason I'm going to stop. That seems            to me quite ­­ quite wrong.                  MR. GREEN: Well, Justice Kennedy, I think         the answer to that question is ­­ is that in the cases            upon which Respondent relies, citing the ­­ the ­­ the          subjective­purpose requirement, those have all been      cases involving arrests without probable cause. And in         those circumstances, the ­­ the factors and the facts         that we think this Court discussed in those cases go to           show the objective unreasonableness of those particular       actions.             We think it's different in the context of a         Terry stop, where this Court has repeatedly said courts         can make the stop in order to investigate, in order to           confirm or dispel suspicion. And that's particularly        so, Your Honor, where ­­ with relation to the ­­ the           two­part test that we think this ­­ that we think is           appropriate here, where the intervening circumstance is       a preexisting warrant based on probable cause, arising        from facts completely unrelated to the stop. That type          of intervening circumstance matches up precisely with       what this Court found in Johnson v. Louisiana, where the          Alderson Reporting Company Official intervening circumstance there was a commitment ­­                   JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: This is a non sequitur.         When you talk about an intervening circumstances ­­       we've looked at it in the case law ­­ it's always been            something different than the actual stop. Another        police officer comes by and says, oh, I've been         searching for that guy. I know he has ­­ I ­­ I have                 a ­­ an arrest warrant for him. A witness walks by on              another crime and says, he just robbed me down the          block.             Those are intervening circumstances because     they are something outside of the stop. This location          of evidence was a direct product of the stop.                      MR. GREEN: Well ­­                JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: It would never have       happened except for the stop.                 MR. GREEN: Your Honor, we agree that there         is but­for cause here. But with respect, there was          actually something else that happened here. That was         that prior finding of probable cause by a neutral and           detached magistrate on a crime completely unrelated to         the facts at issue in this particular stop. So in that            sense, it does resemble ­­                JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Mr. ­­ you know       something? Finding the baggie of cocaine gives the         Alderson Reporting Company Official officer reasonable ­­ probable cause to arrest, but we         don't let that cocaine come into evidence merely because         it was a ground for the arrest. We look at how the              evidence was secured before deciding whether it's       suppressible or not.               And I don't see how this is any different          than not letting someone be arrested ­­ or suppressing         DNA evidence, fingerprint evidence that leads to other        crimes. We've suppressed those things because they've        been the product of an illegal stop.                   MR. GREEN: Justice Sotomayor, we agree with        you that if the bag of cocaine ­­ if an officer had            found a bag of cocaine during an unlawful stop, that's           the precise situation where the exclusionary rule would        usually apply.              What's different here is that the search in        which the ­­ in which the drugs and the other evidence           was found occurred while the suspect was in lawful         custody.             Respondent has admitted that the arrest      warrant was lawful. And the arrest was therefore         lawful. And under this Court's decision in Robinson,         once the arrest is lawful, the search incident to it is           lawful, and all the evidence gathered in any that ­­ in           any search is lawfully seized.     Alderson Reporting Company Official             JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Green, you made a        statement in reply brief that says, "The Fourth        Amendment does not require officers to have reasonable        suspicion before they check for warrants."                  If you mean that, then any officer can say,         what's your name, I'll check you for a warrant.                      MR. GREEN: An officer could do that, Your         Honor. That's certainly right. But what happened here          is that the ­­ the ­­ of course that request came during            the course of a stop that we've conceded was not           supported by reasonable suspicion. And so the question         is what happens ­­               JUSTICE GINSBURG: But you say they didn't        need reasons for suspicion. I mean, as I read the             sentence, it says the officer doesn't have to have         reasonable suspicion. It can grab you, what's your         name, and check for warrants, and that doesn't violate         the Fourth Amendment.               MR. GREEN: Well, Justice Ginsburg, they       don't have to have reasonable suspicion to check for         warrants, but that's different from making the initial        stop where, of course, they do need reasonable        suspicion.             If there are no further questions, I'd like        to reserve the remainder of my time.       Alderson Reporting Company Official             CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.                   Mr. Bash.                ORAL ARGUMENT OF JOHN F. BASH                FOR UNITED STATES, AS AMICUS CURIAE,                      SUPPORTING THE PETITIONER               MR. BASH: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it         please the Court:               I'd like to start with the concern that        Justice Sotomayor and Justice Kagan have both raised        about these communities where there are a lot of          outstanding warrants.              As a preface, there is a lot of communities           where there is not a lot of outstanding warrants, and           the rule that Respondent wants you to establish would         exclude evidence of serious guilt and serious offenses        nationwide.             But focusing on communities like Ferguson      with a lot of outstanding warrants ­­                   JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I'm sorry. I don't         understand why. If there's an arrest warrant for         someone, for whatever reason, you can arrest them. What          you can't do is stop them illegally to effect an arrest.           So it's not as if they're going to get away from           whatever the underlying crime was. There's an arrest         warrant, they're going to go back and serve their time          Alderson Reporting Company Official on whatever circumstance existed warranting that arrest,       why are they getting away with anything?                   MR. BASH: Well, what's being excluded is        evidence of the crime that was ­­                  JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Of another crime that       the police would never have found. But we do that ­­                       MR. BASH: Well ­­ well, they might have         found it during a separate valid execution of ­­ a           separate execution of the warrant without a preceding         Terry stop, but the evidence found on a person, for           example, a firearm, can be very serious crimes that are           also of significant danger to these communities.                   JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But that's true of all        evidence we suppress. Now you're attacking our        suppression jurisprudence.              We understand there's a cost to suppressing        evidence. But we believe, as we've been taught by our           precedents, that there is value in ensuring that the         Fourth Amendment is respected.                MR. BASH: Of course. And the overarching         inquiry always is weighing those very serious costs of         excluding evidence of guilt against the deterrent value        that you would get ­­                JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So what's our rule now?        Now you don't need reasonable suspicion to stop someone.         Alderson Reporting Company Official You only need questionable reasonable suspicion to stop        someone.             (Laughter.)             MR. BASH: Well ­­                JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: And now ­­ so we've now         lessened the standard ­­ the Terry stop standard, which         is fairly intrusive to stop someone.                    I ­­ I suspect, and I don't know whose brief           it was, yours or your ­­ or Petitioner's, but someone          said the public will stop this if they don't like police           stopping you with no cause. I think the public may end             up stopping things but in a way the police are not going             to like.              MR. BASH: Well, Justice Sotomayor, we're       not talking about all Terry cases. We're talking about          a class of carry ­­ Terry cases where an intervening          event of huge legal significance occurs.                  It turns out that a neutral magistrate had         already found probable cause to arrest this person. So          we're certainly not talking about lowering the Terry        standard in all cases ­­                JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: No. But ­­ but we're         not saying ­­              JUSTICE ALITO: You're not talking about the        statistics, Mr. Bash. Could you do that?        Alderson Reporting Company Official                And then does the United States know the     percentage of residents of the United States who have         outstanding warrants?              MR. BASH: We don't know globally. In the          reply brief of the Petitioner in this case, he cited a           study submitted to the Department of Justice in         that looked at two counties. I don't pretend they're           representative, but it's a county in Minnesota and         Maryland, and it was an extremely low number of warrants          per person.              And of course, using that number would take        the assumption that every warrant is for a different          person, which is probably not true. And it would assume           that the population reflects the total number of people         who could be subject to warrants, but of course, people          pass through, people come in and out. So it's probably           extremely low.                I ­­ I do take Justice Kagan's point,        though, that there are some communities where the        warrants are high. I want to focus ­­                     JUSTICE ALITO: Yeah. And what ­­ what         should we be concerned about there? What ­­ what would           prevent the problem in ­­ in communities like that?                     MR. BASH: Well, it's ­­ it's important to         know that Respondent's rule does nothing to solve the         Alderson Reporting Company Official problem that the ­­ the Department of Justice in its          March report ­­ March report on Ferguson        identified.             What was going on in Ferguson is that the         municipal court, in conjunction with the police, were        using arrest warrants as a revenue­raising measure.        They were issuing warrants for very minor offenses and         failure to appear, and then police officers on the scene          had the incentive to arrest people to bring them in to           pay the fine. Respondent's rule does nothing to solve          that because everybody agrees the arrest is lawful.                    The Department of Justice did not find, even        in a community with as significant number of arrest          warrants as Ferguson, that officers had an incentive to         search, and that they were acting on an        incentive­to­search­people incident. The incentive was      to arrest and pay the fine.                  With respect to ­­               JUSTICE KAGAN: But I guess ­­ I ­­ I take              the point, Mr. Bash, but I guess I just don't            understand. Of course, this is a nationwide rule that           we would be setting. But most Terry stops do not happen            in most neighborhoods. Most Terry stops happen in very          high­crime neighborhoods ­­ appropriately, but where      people have lots of arrest warrants.      Alderson Reporting Company Official             And ­­ and you might be right about the         specific Ferguson case, but I still have my question,          which is why doesn't that dramatically change the        incentives for police officers in deciding whether to        search somebody? If you know that there is a          significant possibility that somebody you stop is going        to have an arrest warrant, that's another reason to stop          them.             MR. BASH: Justice Kagan, I don't think the          empirics show that the numbers are so great that even in           high­crime neighborhoods, at least outside of the       Ferguson circumstance where you have this odd       revenue­raising scheme, that the ­­ the chance of both         finding a warrant and then finding contraband in the          search ensuing to arrest is so high that it's         incentivizing officers to conduct illegal stops solely       for the purpose of finding a warrant.                    JUSTICE KENNEDY: So that was my point about         the importance or the likely importance of purpose in         this analysis.              MR. BASH: And ­­ and I was actually just           going to turn to that, Justice Kennedy.                     I think when this Court has mentioned      flagrancy in cases, not only those cases listing the         Brown factors, but also cases like Leon and Herring,         Alderson Reporting Company Official what it has been concerned about in part is the notion           that once you establish an attenuation principle, what I         would say is a common­sense principle here that         generally an arrest warrant should be a superseding         cause of the discovery of the evidence, you might have          an officer exploiting that rule precisely in order to         get evidence in searches incident to arrests.                   So I think the way you could think about          flagrancy is: Did this officer have the purpose ­­ and           it could either be a purpose objectively understood from          all of the facts or it could be a subjective purpose ­­            to exploit this attenuation exception precisely in order        to search incident to arrest.                     I don't think the facts here remotely get     there. I ­­ I don't really think even Respondent has             argued that. This was a legitimate investigation. The           officer may have made a mistake about the quantum of           suspicion necessary, but if you had a case where an           officer truly, either objectively or subjectively, is       going out, just pulling random people over because he         now knows about this attenuation rule established in        this case, I think that's the sort of flagrancy          consideration in cases like Leon and Herring this Court         has left as a safety valve.                   JUSTICE KAGAN: But does that mean that        Alderson Reporting Company Official we're going to have to, in every single case, explore          the officer's subjective motivations? Because that       sounds like the kind of inquiry that we've tried to stay           away from in the past.                 MR. BASH: Justice Kagan, Justice Kennedy       suggested subjective motivations. And I think that has          some support in the earlier attenuation cases, like        Brown and Dunaway and Taylor, where it really did seem          to be that the Court was inquiring about purpose. And           it also has some support in doctrines like inevitable         discovery, which does ask, you know, what were you going          to do, in effect?                In more recent cases, the Court has moved        towards an objective test. So I think the way the Court             could formulate the flagrancy safety valve in this case         is to say does this stop appear objectively designed to          exploit the ability to search, incident to arrest on a          warrant.             And it could look at all the circumstances.        It could look at the fact that this wasn't incident to           any legitimate investigation. It could look to the fact          that the officer pulled over several people and searched         them for warrants in the same incident. I think it            could have that safety valve, which would have the         effect of preserving cases like this one, where an         Alderson Reporting Company Official officer is acting in good faith, and someone is found          with very serious evidence on them of drug trafficking         or a firearm. And it would make ­­                     JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Now, we've gotten to the        point where we no longer have reasonable suspicion at         all, because you keep defending this stop. And I keep            going to back to he has an anonymous call; he does see a             certain number of short­stay visits, but he stops        someone who he doesn't know has been a short­stay visit,           has not seen there before, knows nothing about this         person, and is doing a complete intrusive stop ­­ not           just a hey, will­you­talk­to­me stop, but a formal          investigatory stop ­­ on nothing else.                  MR. BASH: Justice Sotomayor, respectfully,      I think this ­­ I think this was a close case and              I'll ­­ I'll just lay out why. Maybe you'll disagree           with that.              This is an officer with years of        experience and several years, or a couple years, in          drug ­­ drug crimes. Got an anonymous tip that this was            a drug house. Observed it intermittently for three         hours and saw short­term traffic that was consistent in         his experience and expertise with drug activity. And         then someone walked out of the house.                   That person could have been one of two        Alderson Reporting Company Official people. He could have been a short­term visitor, in           which case, I think most people would agree, that there           would be cause to stop. Or it could be a long­term             resident of that house. And there's not too many houses           that are involved in a long, ongoing drug trafficking or           drug sales that the ­­ a long­term resident of that           house wouldn't know about. I mean, this wasn't a pizza             deliveryman. This was some ­­                 JUSTICE GINSBURG: Yes. But it's ­­ it's ­­         it's a given that there was no reasonable suspicion.          And you could argue whether it was. But for our           purposes. There was no reasonable suspicion.                   MR. BASH: As the case comes to the Court,          that is correct, Justice Ginsburg. My only point was          this isn't the example, in my mind, of the safety valve           flagrancy situation that I was discussing with        Justice Kagan and Justice Kennedy.                 JUSTICE GINSBURG: Is that ­­ would you ­­        the reason that this case comes to us is because the           Utah Supreme Court says, no, this is three kings and          flagrant; this is all very confusing. And courts are          coming out all over the lot, so we want to come up with             a simpler test.               Do you have ­­ are you saying Utah was         wrong? That the three­prong test that we have now is           Alderson Reporting Company Official fine? Would you change, in any respect, how we look at            these attenuations?              MR. BASH: Well, I don't think the         three­prong way is a bad way to look at it. The cases              have actually used the three prongs to determine whether         a defendant's confession is the product of free will.                     Mr. Chief Justice, can I ­­                  CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Finish your      sentence, sir.              MR. BASH: We think it's a fine way to think            about this case, in the sense of the Court could hold           superseding legal authority by a neutral magistrate is         an intervening event of significance for the attenuation        analysis, and suppression would be appropriate only if        the stop was flagrant, either objectively or       subjectively understood.              CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.                   Ms. Watt.                ORAL ARGUMENT OF JOAN C. WATT                     ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT                 MS. WATT: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it         please the Court:               Utah's proposed rule would open the door to        abuse.             It would create a powerful incentive for        Alderson Reporting Company Official police officer ­­ officers to detain citizens without        concern for the Fourth Amendment, knowing that finding a         warrant would wipe the slate clean and render the         constitutional violation irrelevant. It would cut the        heart out of Terry. It would create a new form of             investigation. Officers would be stopping citizens and        hunting for warrants.               It's already the practice in many      communities, and if Utah's rule is adopted, it will         become the norm.               It's unnecessary for this Court to take such        a sweeping view as ­­ as Utah has.                    JUSTICE ALITO: Well, would that be true if,         let's say, one­half of percent of the residents of           South Salt Lake or Salt Lake City have outstanding         warrants?             MS. WATT: The statistics are important to        our argument, but not necessary. Because even without         the statistics, we know that officers make stops        precisely for that reason: To find the warrant. That's           why they're making the stop. They can target         communities. And so even if there's just a ­­ a very              minor amount of ­­ of warrants, they can still target          communities that may have a greater incidence of         warrants. And if this were the rule, there would be no            Alderson Reporting Company Official downside. Officers ­­               JUSTICE ALITO: Well, that's true, there's a        downside. If the officer makes an illegal stop, the          officer exposes himself or herself to all sorts of         consequences.               But you're saying that, let's ­­ if the ­­      on the statistic that I gave you, if there's a in                chance that there's going to be an outstanding warrant,         so the officer says well, you know, I don't have ­­ I             have no reason to stop this person, but if I stop             people today illegally, then I'm going to find one who          has an outstanding warrant, you would say that that ­­         that gives the officer the incentive to make those          illegal stops.              MS. WATT: Well, it's still precisely why        the officer would be doing it. He's writing the warrant           check in this ­­ in this facts situation. We're talking           about ­­ about a very narrow set of facts where we have             an officer that detained someone, and as part of that          detention, there is a warrants check. These ­­ these           were not separate things. It was inherent in this stop.                       And so, yes, if an officer is detaining        someone under those circumstances and runs a warrants         check, he's doing it precisely.                 JUSTICE KENNEDY: Could ­­ could you ­­ is         Alderson Reporting Company Official it permissible to do a warrant check as part of a lawful              Terry stop?              MS. WATT: A lawful Terry stop?                    JUSTICE KENNEDY: Yes.                MS. WATT: We ­­ in our brief, we referred          to Rodriguez, and ­­ and this Court has certainly said          that, at least in the context of ­­ of automobile stops,           yes.             JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, in ­­ in ­­ in this          case, the State, as I understand it ­­ please correct me            if I'm wrong ­­ has conceded that the stop was unlawful.           It has not conceded that it was flagrantly unlawful;         isn't ­­ isn't that correct?                 MS. WATT: Well, that's right. That's        right. And ­­ and so, what ­­ but what ­­ the position             that the State has taken is ­­                  JUSTICE KENNEDY: So we take the case as one          in which there was no ­­ there was no flagrant conduct?                       MS. WATT: The ­­ so the test under Brown          for flagrancy really has two elements. One is whether          it was done deliberately or purposefully. And we know          from Dunaway and Taylor, and Brown itself that ­­ that          unlawful conduct that is undertaken with the purpose or         with the hope of finding something, with the hope that          something turns out ­­ up, is deliberate and is         Alderson Reporting Company Official flagrant. And ­­ and Dunaway tells us that we don't           need some overarching flagrancy, that that's enough.                   And so the purpose is important. It's        viewed from an objective standpoint. Here, we have an          officer that told us his purpose. But objectively, we          do look at purpose. We look at justification. That's           how we know the limits of a Terry stop.                      CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What ­­ what's the        number? What percentage of people have to have warrants          before you can imply that whenever an officer stops         someone, it is to, you know, illegally search them         because they're very likely to have an arrest warrant?                     MS. WATT: Well, I think that the proper          focus ­­ I mean, I ­­ I don't think breaking it down to                numbers is the way to go. I think the proper focus is              on deterrence. And we know deterrence is not just ­­                      CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, I suppose        that's related. I mean, your brief had a lot of numbers              in it. And if only one out of a hundred people have              arrest warrants, then I think you really couldn't imply          that that was the purpose of the stop.                    MS. WATT: If you had ­­                  CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: And some of these        numbers ­­ obviously, you have, in particular       communities, high numbers, but some of them didn't        Alderson Reporting Company Official strike me ­­ I was surprised how low they were. ,             is a big number, but that's the entire State of Florida.                        MS. WATT: So ­­ so the officers run         warrants because ­­ warrants checks because they're       likely to turn up warrants. With ­­ when they target           certain ­­             CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Why is that? You         mean every time a police officer pulls somebody over and           runs a warrant check, it's because he thinks it's likely           there's a warrant? Might it ­­ might it be to protect             him when he walks up to the car? He'd like to know that              the person is wanted for murder, right?                   MS. WATT: So running the warrants check        tells him that. That's ­­ when you run the warrants           check, you're looking for a warrant. In this case,           that's what that Officer Fackrell was doing. He wanted          to try to find out something about Mr. Strieff, and so           he ran the warrants check.                 there ­­             The ­­ these kinds of stops, it is ­­        CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But I guess ­­ I          mean, you do require us to determine whether or not he           ran the warrant check to ensure his safety in ­­ in this            interaction, or as an investigative matter. I mean,          does that make a difference?      Alderson Reporting Company Official             MS. WATT: In ­­ he ­­ it makes a difference            in the sense that when there is a stop that is ­­ is              made, that the warrants check is inherent in that stop.                      So I guess my answer is no, it doesn't make           a difference, because when warrants check is ­­                   JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Why wouldn't it? Why        wouldn't it? Now, look at our case, Rodriguez case. We            assumed that the check there was to ensure the safety of           the officer.              MS. WATT: That's right.                 JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: All right.                 MS. WATT: Right.                JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: If the stop here is        purely investigatory, isn't that different? Can you        have an investigatory stop based on no suspicion?                       You were right when you said he stopped to      check for the warrant. The question is Justice         Kennedy's question, which is: Is that legitimate?                    MS. WATT: Can ­­ can you have an         investigative stop ­­              JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Yes.                MS. WATT: ­­ to check for a warrant without           reasonable suspicion or with?                JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Without.                MS. WATT: Without, you cannot. You        Alderson Reporting Company Official cannot ­­ the officer cannot detain someone without        reasonable suspicion to run a warrants check.                    JUSTICE ALITO: As I understand your        position, you don't argue that the arrest was unlawful;         is that right?               challenged.             MS. WATT: We don't. We have never         JUSTICE ALITO: So the arrest was lawful.        And when the officer is making the arrest, it's         permissible for safety purposes for the officer to frisk         the person who is being arrested. Do you agree with           that?                         MS. WATT: Yes.    JUSTICE ALITO: So it's a ­­ so it's a           lawful search, correct.               search.             MS. WATT: We've never challenged the       JUSTICE ALITO: Isn't it ­­ can you ­­ can          you give me one other example of a situation in which            this Court has held that the fruit of a lawful search            must be suppressed?               MS. WATT: I don't have another case in this           precise circumstance. Our position throughout ­­                              JUSTICE ALITO: Well, in any circumstance.       MS. WATT: So ­­ so this case has not come           Alderson Reporting Company Official before the Court. We know that an arrest warrant is not            always an intervening circumstance. It wasn't one in         Taylor v. Alabama.                 And ­­ and even ­­ even Utah and the       Solicitor General don't take the position that just        the ­­ the arrest and the search incident to arrest are           enough because they've conceded that dragnets ­­ that        any evidence that's found in the dragnet is a fruit.           And ­­ and so that ­­                 JUSTICE ALITO: I'm just pointing it out        that that's a curiosity, isn't it, to have a law ­­ to              suppress the fruit of a lawful search? And maybe you            need strong circumstances to justify such an unusual and         unprecedented result.              MS. WATT: Well, our position is these are         strong circumstances because part of deterrence ­­ the        value of deterrence is found in the strength of the          incentive to violate the Constitution.                             you said ­­                          JUSTICE KENNEDY: Could you ­­     JUSTICE GINSBURG: Well, I thought that ­­        JUSTICE KENNEDY: Go ahead.     JUSTICE GINSBURG: You said you don't       question at all the arrest, and you don't question, once          there is an arrest, to pat down for drugs ­­ I mean, the              Alderson Reporting Company Official pat­down for guns. But are you saying that the arrest           for the warrant that has ­­ is a ­­ a totally different              crime doesn't permit you to search for evidence, it only          permits the officer to protect himself by patting down         for weapons? Is that ­­                 MS. WATT: Well, our position is that        anything that's found is the fruit of that, of that          illegal detention, not of the arrest, because the ­­        the arrest and ­­ and ultimate ­­ and subsequent search          are ­­ are a fruit, but ­­ but they're not suppressible.            They're not something that we have fought against        because, again, we have the warrant and authorization.                    JUSTICE ALITO: Well, if the individual is        going to be arrested and put in jail, isn't it standard           procedure and lawful procedure for the authorities to        search that person thoroughly? They couldn't have a         person bring drugs into ­­ into the jail or things that           the person might use to hurt himself or other people?                      MS. WATT: It would still be a fruit.                      JUSTICE ALITO: So it would ­­ well, what         does that mean? It's ­­ but it's not ­­ it ­­ that             doesn't ­­ that's lawful conduct on their part, right?                     MS. WATT: Right.                JUSTICE ALITO: Okay. But ­­ so you're         asking for the suppression of the fruit of a lawful           Alderson Reporting Company Official search.             MS. WATT: What we're asking for is the         suppression based on the unlawful detention that began        the encounter. So ­­ so this encounter begins with the           stop. The stop itself is ­­ is unlawful. The State has             conceded that throughout.               So what's ­­ what's the problem with that        stop? This is a stop ­­ the kind of stop that lawyer ­­              or, I'm sorry ­­ that officers are faced with every day.           It's a basic kind of stop. It ­­ what ­­ what do we               know about Terry stops? The officers have to ­­ have to            have a reasonable articulable suspicion.                  Courts have ­­ tells us that it's really a         two­step assessment. They have to, No. , look at the           totality of the circumstances, and No. , they then have          to look at whether there is an individualized suspicion,         does this tie in with this defendant?                   So in this case, what does the officer know?         All he knows is that there's some short ­­ not terribly           frequent, short­stay traffic at the house. He sees my          client emerge from the house, knows nothing else. So          even under the totality, a reasonably well­trained        officer should have known this stop was not ­­ was bad.                       Second ­­             CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You're arguing      Alderson Reporting Company Official something that the State's conceded, right?                  MS. WATT: Well, I think it's important         because the State has taken the position that ­­ that          this was just a fact or two shy of ­­ of what was              needed. And being a fact or two shy of Terry leaves us              with nothing. Terry is already a fairly­low standard,          but it's a ­­                JUSTICE KENNEDY: But you still have to say         that it's flagrant.               MS. WATT: Well, my position is ­­ is         twofold; one, that ­­ that flagrancy has two aspects.         One aspect is just the deliberate aspect. And that          in ­­ in this type of a stop where ­­ where it's made              for the purpose of ­­ of running a warrants check, if            the ­­ the warrants check is inherent in the stop, that           that's enough; but secondly, if we were going to ­­         going to include a different definition, it would be          that it was blatantly unconstitutional.                 And so that's why I'm moving into the stop,         to talk about what was the problem with this stop, what           do we expect of our police officers, what do we need           from our police officers?                CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You ­­ you said that         the ­­ that the stop was made for the purpose of running            for the arrest warrants. I just don't know the basis            Alderson Reporting Company Official for that, other than your statistics that in certain         areas there are a high number of arrest warrants. In            many areas there aren't.                  I mean, how ­­ is it entirely empirical? Do         we have to accept and generalize from your empirical         evidence which ­­ that the purpose must be to execute or           to check for arrest warrants?                 MS. WATT: No, because what ­­ we know that          that's precisely what ­­ what was done in this case,          what is done in some other cases. In this case, we ­­            we have an officer that makes a stop and immediately           runs that warrants check. How does ­­                   CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But he immediately       runs the arrest ­­ warrants check when he makes the stop           because he wants to know who he's dealing with. It           would be ­­ it would be, I think, bad police work to not              run the warrant check until after you've had an         interaction with the person when the danger that you         could have found out about might have been when it's too           late to ­­ to act on it.                   MS. WATT: The way he finds out who he's          dealing with is if there's a warrant. The point is, he             didn't have a reasonable suspicion to stop my client.          And so ­­              CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: No, I understand        Alderson Reporting Company Official that.             warrant ­­ JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: In order to run the                    CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You're implying ­­      I'm still trying to get at how you decide what the           purpose was. In your brief you say several times, oh,           the purpose is to ­­ to run the warrants check. And I             just want to know why that's ­­ why that's the case.                       MS. WATT: Because it was immediate; it was         inherent in what he did; because he stated that his          purpose in ­­ in stopping my client was to find out           about my ­­ find out about the house; and that it was            normal for him to run a warrants check and normal for            him to know ­­ want to know who he's dealing with so.                        JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: You're ­­                CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Let's say that the        warrant check is something he does when he arrests         people. I don't doubt that, but it doesn't prove that            that was his purpose in ­­ in the stop.                     MS. WATT: So the intended consequence of        running a warrants check is to find a warrant, No. .             And No. , our statistics show that ­­ that in ­­ in a             sizable number ­­ it's ­­ officers are likely to find          warrants.             The other concern is if he thought ­­       Alderson Reporting Company Official             JUSTICE KENNEDY: You're asking us to say        that, as a matter of law, you want us to hold that the              purpose of this stop was to run the warrants check? I            thought the purpose of the stop was to find out what was            going ­­ what was going on in the house.                     an ­­             MS. WATT: I ­­ I think that when ­­ when             JUSTICE KENNEDY: The record just doesn't       support the first proposition that I made.                    MS. WATT: When an officer detains someone        as part of a fishing expedition in the hope that           something will turn up, that is ­­ that is the purpose           that is a problem.                 JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: There was no suspicion       here. He was ­­ your client wasn't frisked.                     MS. WATT: I'm sorry. Wasn't frisked?                    JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: No. There was no        activity that the officer is alleged to have seen that          would put the officer in fear of any ­­ that this           gentleman was violent or was going to turn on him or do            anything else.              MS. WATT: No.                JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Correct?                MS. WATT: Correct.                JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So the purpose, as I        Alderson Reporting Company Official understand what you're trying to say is, he is now          routinely checking every single person that he stops,        whether with or without reasonable suspicion. There        can't be any other reason other than he wants to find           the warrant or not.                            MS. WATT: But that's ­­     JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So part of the stop may         be to investigate, but the other part of the stop is           he's doing this routinely, with no reasonable suspicion,        with no articulable fear of his ­­ for his own safety.           He's demanding peoples' names, and he's running a        warrant to do what? You're saying to find the warrant.                       MS. WATT: Find the warrant.                  JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Exactly.                CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: How often are ­­ are         cars ­­ people stopped driving, an officer walks up to          the car and they're shot? Has that happened a fair            amount of times?               MS. WATT: It does happen.                  CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: It does happen. So         is there no other reason for checking to see if there           are warrants out for that person before you walk up to           the car? Or before you conduct an inquiry with a           ticket?             MS. WATT: So ­­    Alderson Reporting Company Official             CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: It seems to me not         wanting to get shot's a pretty good reason.                     MS. WATT: But this presents a completely         different scenario. This officer approached      Mr. Strieff. He knew very little about him. You know,            as a matter of deterrence, a reasonably well­trained          officer would have known, should have known that there         wasn't enough there. Because he didn't know anything         about my client, there was no individualized suspicion.        And ­­             JUSTICE ALITO: Well, we really don't know        very much about exactly what happened here, which is         unfortunate. But what the officer testified was that he          didn't just grab this guy and say give me an ID and            then ­­ and then run a warrants check. He did say that              he ­­ he approached him and he said ­­ identified          himself. He said he thought there might be drug          activity going on in the house, and he asked him to           tell ­­ he said, "I asked him to tell me what he was             doing there."              Now, we don't even know what he ­­ unless         I'm ­­ it's someplace else in this record, we don't even           know what your client said. But he could have said,           what am I doing there, yeah, I live there, or, my mother              lives there, or, my best friend lives there.        Alderson Reporting Company Official             But whatever ­­ we don't know what he said.         But then at some later point he ran a warrants check.            So how can we infer from that, that the whole point of            the stop was to run the warrants check?                    MS. WATT: So ­­ so a really important part           of the officer's testimony was that he didn't remember         what that answer was. So if my client had said, I went              in there because there's someone who's ill and I've been          visiting for, you know, minutes, or ­­ or, this is           where my friend lives; that's why I was there, end of            inquiry, and ­­ and the warrants check shouldn't have         been run. A reasonably well­trained officer should         know.             The ­­ the important part of this case is         that if we're only looking at ­­ we're not just looking           at deterring Officer Fackrell, we're looking at       deterring future conduct by officers. And the ­­ the          Terry limitation is something we want our officers to         know. It's fairly straightforward. This is a fairly           straightforward case that is going on every day in this          country where officers are looking at houses, watching        houses that maybe, might have drug trafficking going on.         They're trying to establish probable cause. Case law is          relatively clear about what you need to get probable         cause on a house.     Alderson Reporting Company Official             It's also relatively clear about what you       need to get individualized suspicion. We know from         Cortez we need those two elements. We ­­ we also know            from Ybarra that just being in proximity to other people          is not enough. Being around ­­ even when the officers           have probable cause to search or probable cause to         arrest someone if you're standing right there, it's not         enough.             So it should be clear to an officer that my          client leaving a house that he doesn't even have          probable cause on, that he's trying to find something         out about ­­              JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, all he did was go         from the house to a convenience store, not in a car but              walking.                         MS. WATT: Right.    JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: He walks to a       convenience store, he's stopped in the parking garage        but without a car. And I go back to this is not coming                up to a parked automobile and getting shot, correct?                      MS. WATT: Right. Right.                  CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Would your rule       apply in that situation?                MS. WATT: Well, when an ­­ when an officer          makes a stop ­­    Alderson Reporting Company Official             CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Would your rule       apply in a situation where the officer approaches the          car for a purpose that is later found to be insufficient            under Terry? You would suppress whatever evidence is         find ­­ found in that situation too, right?                    MS. WATT: If the ­­ if the officer did not           have a reasonable suspicion for the stop.                    CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Okay. So it would         apply in the stopping of the automobile situation.                                            MS. WATT: It would. But it's ­­        CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Okay.     MS. WATT: But again, in these cases, if         there is a warrant, we haven't argued about the warrant           itself. What we've ­­ our concern is the random stops.           And our concern is not just for my client. It's for all             of those innocent citizens that will ­­ that are walking          around, that are stopped, that a warrants check is run           and nothing comes up and then they're sent on their way.           There's no oversight.               The ­­ the officer is encouraged to engage        in ­­ in a catch­and­release type of approach with our           citizenry. And Utah's rule would be something that ­­         that would create that incentive.                 JUSTICE GINSBURG: In ­­ in your brief you         took the position that ­­ that an event is intervening          Alderson Reporting Company Official only if it is unforeseeable.                 MS. WATT: Well, our position is that an         intervening circumstance needs to be independent, and       it ­­ it needs to be a break in the ­­ the causal chain.               And that when ­­ when a warrant is run ­­ and it needs              to be something that is not directly related to the          officer's conduct.               And so because the warrants check is an       inherent part of ­­ of the detention, it's not an          intervening circumstance. And that's something that ­­       that the Utah Supreme Court unanimously agreed with in         the dissent in the Utah court of appeals as well, agreed           that this is ­­ it's a natural and foreseeable          consequence. It is the intended result. It ­­ it is            not something that ­­ that is independent, that ­­ that          comes as a surprise.                 And that ­­ that's really consistent with       this Court's case law in dealing with intervening        circumstances. Spontaneous confessions are something      that are independent; they ­­ they break the chain. We           look at free will, and that's independent and breaks the          chain. Witness testimony. But here there was no break.           It was a direct result of the officer's conduct.                      The ­­ the rule that we are really asking         the Court to ­­ to adopt follows settled exclusionary         Alderson Reporting Company Official rule case law, and that is that ­­ that if there is the             bad stop, it's suppressed unless there is attenuation.                    And of course, if there hadn't been a        warrant, if ­­ if the officer had just stopped my client           and searched him, I don't think anyone's contesting that          that would just simply be suppressed without       attenuation.             And in this case there was ­­ there was no          attenuation as well because all three of the factors         that this Court has looked at work in favor of          suppression. The temporal proximity works with us,        obviously. It was ­­ it was contemporaneous. It was           immediate. It was inherent.                 It's not an intervening circumstance because      it's not independent and it's not a break in the causal            chain. And it was deliberate conduct on this officer's          part that was blatantly unconstitutional.                 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You ­­ you disagree        with Judge Friendly's analysis in the Friedman case?                    MS. WATT: That ­­ in ­­ in what respect?                      CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, with ­­ with        his analysis. As ­­ as I understand, it took the            position opposite to what you're arguing, and I just          want to know if you have a basis for distinguishing that            precedent. Alderson Reporting Company Official MS. WATT: I guess I don't, no.          So ­­ so our position is that that this                                 falls squarely within the ­­ the Court's settled case         law. We're asking that the Utah Supreme Court be upheld           and ­­             JUSTICE ALITO: You agree that attenuation       is based on ­­ on deterrence; that the attenuation         determination is based on a calculation of the deterrent          effect of the ruling.                MS. WATT: I do. I do. I ­­ I agree that                  the focus is on deterrence. And I think that in this             circumstance, there's powerful deterrence to ­­ to adopt        our position and to not follow Utah's position.                    If ­­ if Utah's position is ­­ part of         deterrence is looking at the incentive to violate the ­­         the ­­ the Constitution, and looking forward to see ­­         see what would happen with the rule.                   And under Utah's rule, we ­­ there would be         nothing to stop police officers from ­­ from stopping         people on the street, articulating something. Terry        doesn't take much. Most ­­ most officers can articulate          some sort of justification, looking for the warrant, and         then sending people on their way. So ­­ so we believe            that deterrence would be very well served by adopting         our rule.  Alderson Reporting Company Official             JUSTICE ALITO: And ­­ and your deterrence        argument doesn't depend at all on statistics?                   MS. WATT: With ­­ even without the        statistics, our deterrence argument works because the       point is a reasonably well­trained officer would ­­        should know what the parameters of Terry are. This          officer did not.               JUSTICE ALITO: So if one in a thousand          people has an outstanding warrant, that's enough?                   MS. WATT: So ­­                JUSTICE ALITO: That statistic would ­­ that        statistic wouldn't upset your argument?                 MS. WATT: It wouldn't upset my argument        because we ­­ we run ­­ officers run warrants checks          because they're likely to find them ­­                  JUSTICE ALITO: One ­­ one in ,, would         that upset your argument?                MS. WATT: I ­­ I suppose ­­                     JUSTICE ALITO: I've got to get to a number           where you're going to say ­­                 MS. WATT: Yes.                (Laughter.)             MS. WATT: In those communities, then you're        going to see much less of this behavior, you know, much           less of the running of warrants checks in order to find           Alderson Reporting Company Official a warrant. It's going to self­correct. But for the           most part, the ­­ I mean, and the flip side is there's             then no reason not to run them if that's the rule. But             for the most part, in ­­ in most communities, the ­­ the            incentive there ­­ the other thing is, with Utah's rule,          it could create an incentive to have even more warrants          for even more minor infractions. This was a traffic           matter. Many of these warrants in the cases down below           are minor traffic matters. The ­­ it ­­                    JUSTICE GINSBURG: But what was it? We         know ­­ was it a ­­ a ticket? Do we know ­­                                                  MS. WATT: It's not in the record.        JUSTICE GINSBURG: It's not in the record.        MS. WATT: Yeah. But ­­ but ­­ but it was            referred to as a minor traffic ­­                   JUSTICE ALITO: Do you think the judges in         the traffic ­­ in the traffic courts are going to start           issuing lots of warrants because they want to provide a          basis for ­­ for randomly stopping people?                   MS. WATT: My point is only that it ­­ it           creates an incentive to not be as careful. It          creates ­­             JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I'm very surprised that       Justice Alito doesn't know that most of these warrants         are automatic. If you don't pay your fine within a           Alderson Reporting Company Official certain amount of days, they're issued virtually       automatically.             MS. WATT: Right. And that's exactly what         this one was.                CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So it doesn't create       an incentive of the kind you were arguing, you were          worried about before.               MS. WATT: I'm sorry.                 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: The warrants ­­ the        warrants are automatic. You were suggesting that, oh,         one thing that will happen is they'll be issuing all          these warrants if they know they can get evidence from          illegal stops. And because the warrants are automatic,         they're not going to be issuing all these warrants, are          they?             MS. WATT: They're automatic in certain       circumstances, and those circumstances would increase.      So they're automatic right now for no insurance or for          speeding. They would increase. And ­­ and they'd be           automatic for infractions. They'd ­­ and the other         aspect is the databases and the incentive to keep those          databases accurate and up­to­date.                It's our position that this absolutely plays       into a deterrence, and that Utah's rule would have an           overwhelming impact that would create a powerful        Alderson Reporting Company Official incentive for police officers to walk up to people on          the street and simply stop them.                  We're asking, unless there's further     questions, that the Court affirm the ­­ the Utah Supreme          Court. Thank you.                CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, Ms. Watt.                    Mr. Green, you have four minutes remaining.                  REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF TYLER R. GREEN                     ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER                 MR. GREEN: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice.                    If I could just make three brief points in          response.             First, to the suggestion that officers make       random stops in order to find a warrant to conduct           searches of this type. There's actually no evidence of          the ­­ in this record that that's what happened here, or           that it happens more broadly. In fact, I think the            opposite is true.               If you look at page ­­                 JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: It's routine practice      to ­­ to run warrant checks. Every stop, legal or           illegal, he says it's ­­ he runs warrants, on the street           or in a car. Meaning, that's what the police officer            testified to.              MR. GREEN: He ­­ he runs them, Justice         Alderson Reporting Company Official Sotomayor, for the purposes I think that have been          discussed today, for safety rationales and other       reasons. But there's no actual evidence that he runs ­­                      JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So we now have a new          rule. We've taken running warrants for traffic stops         that we've thought were legitimate because they had to         do with highway safety. Now we're saying to police          officers, run warrants on any name you get because all          you have to do is wave the flag of safety.                      MR. GREEN: No, Your Honor. That's not what          we're saying. We're saying that there is a safety           rationale for the warrant check. But beyond that,         there's also the important flagrancy safety valve that        we've talked about here.                And with respect to this particular warrant       check on page of the Appendix to our petition, there           is actually a finding from the district court that the           reason that this officer stopped this particular       defendant was on suspicion of drug possession or        distribution. It wasn't for something else. So that          finding is here.               And more broadly, this rule, as we've noted        in our papers, is, in fact, the majority rule among the           courts that have addressed this issue throughout the        country. Alderson Reporting Company Official              In the United States, and ­­ excuse me, in        the Seventh Circuit, the case of United States v. Green          was decided in , almost years ago. And that, of            course, involves States with a large number of         metropolitan areas, Chicago and Milwaukee and      Indianapolis. And there's no evidence in this record or          before this Court that these sort of random stops in          order to check for warrants is happening in those         jurisdictions. So I think the actual practice and the           way it bears out, and has borne out in ­­ in areas where             this has been adopted undermines that particular       argument.             Second, Your Honor, with respect to the       question of whether a subjective purpose should come in,          responding to Justice Kennedy's question to this ­­ to         this inquiry. I think if this Court were to do that, it              would become an outlier of sorts in the case ­­ in this            Court's Fourth Amendment jurisprudence. And I think,         with respect, if ­­ if it remains an objective inquiry          and consistent with the rest of this Court's cases, that          objective inquiry will capture the flagrant cases.                   We've cited four cases from four different       State courts in our reply brief, in footnote of our            reply brief. That's Illinois, Missouri, New Jersey.        And Oregon, where the courts that have applied this rule          Alderson Reporting Company Official have undertaken the flagrancy inquiry and have, in fact,         suppressed evidence because the initial stop was       flagrant.             Finally, a third point, the ­­ as we've         noted in our briefs, Your Honor, the ­­ the Respondent          here has abandoned the Utah Supreme Court's rule that an          intervening circumstance must, in fact, be something       attributable to the defendant's own free will. We think          that's appropriate based on that concession that it        would ­­ that this Court should ­­ should reverse the          judgment of the Utah Supreme Court, and leaves the         question, of course, of what rule to adopt instead.                     And we think, Your Honor, this ­­ this        intervening circumstance here, this arrest on a       preexisting warrant that arises from probable cause       based on facts completely unrelated to the circumstances        and the facts of this stop, is exactly like what          happened in Johnson v. Louisiana, which is the case that          this Court pointed to in Brown v. Illinois. Where ­­          where it adopted and said the intervening circumstance        is critical to the attenuation inquiry. It's a         straightforward application of that particular test.                  If there are no further questions.                  CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.                   Case is submitted.   Alderson Reporting Company Official             (Whereupon, at : p.m., the case in the        above­entitled matter was submitted.)    Alderson Reporting Company A a.m : : abandoned : ability : able :, above­entitled : Amendment : :,, : :, : : : alleged : allow : absolutely : : : Official OfficialPage  :,, : areas : : :, :, : :,,, argue : : : :, argued : : assumption : arguing : Assistant : assume : : begrudging : assumed : behalf :, : :, : : : begins : : : argument : : attacking : attenuating : attenuation : behavior : believe : : : : :, : :, amicus : : beyond : : amount : : : announce : anonymous : : big : blatantly : attenuations : attributable : authorities : authority : authorization : : : best : :, : : :,, :, : :,, :, : : : : : : :,,, : : arises : analysis : : arising : arming : arrest : : : :,, : :, : :,,, : :,, automatically : brief : : : : : : :,,,, : :, :, : :, :,, back :, : bring : : :,,,, :,, : :,, : : answers : anyone's : appeals : appear : : APPEARANCES : : : : : : : block : borne : break :,, :,,,, breaks : : : bag :, arrested : : baggie : : :, : answer : : : : : : : bad : : automatic : breaking : automobile : : : broadly : : Brown : : briefs : : Appendix : application : applied : applies : apply : : : : : B : : : : arresting : arrests : : appreciable : : based : : : : : :, :, but­for : : C Bash : : : C : :, : abuse : accept : accurate : act : : : acting : : actions : activity : : : : actual : : : additional : : addressed : admissible : admit : :, admits : admitted : : : admittedly : : adopt : : : adopted : : : adopting : affirm : ago : agree : : : : : : agreed :, agrees : ahead : : Alabama : : Alito : : : appreciably : approach : approached : : approaches : appropriate : : : : : appropriately articulable : : :, :,, :,, : : : : : : : : :, articulate : articulating : asked :, asking :, : basic : : : : : : : aspect :, : aspects : assessment : basis : : : : bears : beat : becoming : began : : calculation : call : : : : calls : capture : car : :, :, : : careful : carry : cars : : : :, :,, : area : : Alderson Reporting Company Alderson Reporting Company cases : : : :,, :,, : :, : :,, : : : : Circuit : :,, case : : : : : : :, :, : :,, : :, : :, :, : :, : :,, : :,, : :, :, : catch­and­release : causal : : cause : :, :, : :, : : :, :,, : certain : : : :, certainly : : : chain :,, : challenged :, chance : : : :, : : change : : : check :, :,,, :,, : :,,,, :,,,, : :, :,,, :,,, Official : : :, close : : : : : : :, : cocaine : : : : :, come : : : : confession : confessions : confirm : confusing : conjunction : checking :, checks : : : : Chicago : Chief :, : : : : : : : consequence : : comes : : :, : : comfortably : coming : : consequences : consideration :, :,, : :,, :, : : :, :, :, : : : : : :, commitment : Constitution : : :, :, :, : constitutional : communities : contemporaneous common­sense consistent : : : : : : : :, : :, :, : : : context : : contraband : : convenience : contesting : circumstance : : :,, :,, : :, : : : : : : : compelling : : : : complete : :,, community : : : completely : : : : circumstances : : corner : : correct : : : :, : :, : comply : component : : : : :, : : :, : : : comport : : : corroborate : Cortez : cost : conceded : : costs : : cited : : citing : citizen : citizenry : citizens :, : City :, : class : clean : clear : :, client : : : : : : : : : : :, : : : concern : : : :, concerned : : concession : conclude : concluded : concluding : conduct : : : : : : : : : :, counsel : : : count : :, : counties : country : : county : couple : course : : :,, : :, : : : : court :, : Alderson Reporting Company Page  : : : :,, : : : : :,, : : :, : : : : :,, : : :, : :, :,, Court's : : : :,, : :, : : : :, : courts : : : : : : :, create : : : : : : creates :, crime : : : : : : : crimes : : : critical : culpability : : curiae : : : curiosity : custody : cut : DD :D.C :, danger : : databases :, day : : days :dealing : : : : : decide : decided : deciding : : decision : : direct : : defendant : : : : : directly : disagree : : defendant's : : : defending : definition : deliberate : : : deliberately : deliveryman : demanding : : discovery : : : discussed : : discussing : dispel : display : dissent : distinguishable Department : : : :, depend : derived : designed : detached : detain : : detained : detaining : detains : detention : : : : determination : : determine : : distinguishing : distribution : district : DNA : doctrines : doing : : : : : : : : :, door : doubt : downside :, dragnet : : dragnets : deterrence :, dramatically : :, : :, :, : :, :, : :,,,, :, : deterrent : : driving : drug :, :, :,, : : : : : drugs : : : : : deterring :, Dunaway : difference : : : :, different : : E E : :, : :, : : : earlier : :,, establish : : : established : event : : : : :, F F : : : faced : Fackrell : : everybody : evidence :, : : :, : : : fact :, :, : : : :,,,,, : : :,, :, :, : : : : : : : : : : factors : : facts :, firearm : : first :, :, : : fishing : flag : flagrancy : : :, : :, : : : : : : : flagrant : : Official EDWARD : effect : : : : either : : : : excluded : excluding : exclusionary : : : : : : : elements : excuse : execute : execution :, emerge : existed : empirical :, existing : empirics : expect : encounter :, encouraged : expedition : encouragement : experience : encourages : engage : ensuing : : ensure : : ensuring : entire : entirely : ESQ :,, : Extending : expertise : explained : exploit : : exploiting : explore : exposes : :, Page  February : fellow : Ferguson :, : :,, :, figure : Finally : find : :,, : : : : : : :,, : :,, : : :, : finding : : : :, :,, : : :, finds : fine :, : : : extra : extremely :, Finish : fingerprint : : :, : : : : : :, : : : :, :, flagrantly : failure : flip : fair : Florida : fairly : :, flows : fairly­low : faith : falls : : favor : fear : : : : focusing : follow : following : : focus : : evolved : exactly : : : : example : : : exception : : exclude : Alderson Reporting Company Official :,, : H : : : hand : : give : : : : happen : : hurt : I : :, : : hundred : hunting : follows : footnote : foreseeable : form : formal : formulate : forward : fought : found : : :, :, : : : :, : : :, four : :, Fourth : :, : : : : : : : free : : : given : gives : : globally : go : : : happening : : : : happens : : happened :, : : : : : : hear : heart : heavily­policed : going : : : :,,, : :, :, : : : : : : held : : : : : : : : :,, : :, :, :, : : Herring : frequent : Friedman : friend : : Friendly's : frisk : frisked :, fruit : :, great : : gotten : grab : : good : : : :,,, greater : G : future : further : : Green : :, :,,, :, :, :, : : : :, :, :,, :, :,, : :, : :,, :,,, : : ground : guarantee : guess : :, G : gained : garage : gathered : gathering : General :, : generalize : generally : gentleman : getting : : Ginsburg :, : :,, : : : guilt : : guns : : guy : : hey : high : : : : : high­crime : : : higher : highway : hold : : holding : Honor : : : : :, : :,, :, :, : : : : : : : hope : :, : hours :, : house :,,, :, :, :, : : : : :, houses : : : huge : Page  include : includes : inconsistent : increase : : : :, independent : :,, : Indianapolis : individual : individualized : : : inevitable : infer : infractions : : inherent : : : : : : initial : : : innocent : inquiring : inquiry : : : :, : :, : : : : :,, : : insufficient : insurance : intended : : interaction : : interesting : intermittently : intervening :, : :,, : :, :,, : : : : :,, : :,, intrusive : : : ID : : identification : : identified : : : ill : illegal : : :, : : : illegally : : : Illinois : : immediate : : immediately : : impact : imply :, implying : importance : : important : : : : : :, : improve : incentive :,, : :,, : : : : : : :, :, : incentive­to­sear... : incentives : : incentivizing : incidence : incident : : : :, :,, : Alderson Reporting Company Official : :, :, : kind : : : kinds : kings : knew : know :,, : :,, :, :,, :, Kennedy's : : :,, : :,, :,, : :, : :, :, :,,,, :,,, : :, :,, :, : :, :,,,, : :,, :, :, :,, : :, : :, :, :,,, : :,,,, :,,, :, :, : :,, : :, : :,,, : :,, known : : :, :, :,,, : : : justification : : : : :,, : : : :, : : : : : : : : : :, : : :, : :, :,, :, :,, : :,, :, : :, :,, : knows : : knowing : :, : : L lay : leads : leaves : : leaving : left : legal : : : legitimate : : : : : : letting : level : limitation : limits : line : link : listing : little : live : lived : lives :, : location : long : long­term :, longer : look : : investigate : : investigation : : : investigative : : investigatory : : :, involved : involves : involving : irrelevant : issue : : issued : issuing : : :, J jail :, Jersey : JOAN : : : JOHN : : : Johnson : : : JOSEPH : JR : judge : :, : judged : judges : judgment : jurisdictions : jurisprudence : : : : Justice : :, man : lens : : Leon : : March :, lessened : let's : : Page  : : lowering : M magistrate : : : majority : making : : : marginal : : Maryland : matches : matter : : : : : : matters : mean : : : : : : : : :, :, : : : : : Meaning : means : measure : : mentioned : merely : : metropolitan : Milwaukee : : justify : K Kagan : :, Lake :, : : large : late : : :,, mind : :, :, : Minnesota : minor : : :, : : : : :, Laughter : :, : : : : : : : : law : : : : : : : looked : : : looking : :, :, : :, :,, Kagan's : :,, :, keep :, : : :, : Kennedy :, : : : :, :, :,,,, : : : : :,, : : : :, : :, : :,,, :,, misconduct : Missouri : lot : :,, mistake : lawful : :, :,, : :, :,, lots : : : :,, Louisiana : : : : : : Monday : mother : motivations :, moved : low : : : moving : lawfully : : lawyer : : :,, minutes : : miscalculation : : Alderson Reporting Company percent :, : position : : : : : :, :, : : : :, :, : : : :, : : :, : policing : : population : : :, : :, : : : :,,, : possession : possibility : : Official Page  once : : particularly : : : : : : once­in­a­blue­m... pass : pat : pat­down : patting : pay :, : police : :, people : : pointed : pointing : points : ongoing : open : opposite : : : : :, : : : objectively :, one­half : municipal : murder : N N :, : name : : :,,,, :, :, : names : narrow : nationwide : : O : : objective : : : : : :, :, : : : observation : Observed : obviously : : : oral : :,, : : : order :, :, : : : : occurred : occurs : odd :, : offenses : : Oregon : outlier : outside : : peoples' : outstanding : : : : :, :, : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : :,, percentage : : : : : : : : : permissible : : : need :, : : : : : : :, natural : naturally : necessary :, officer :, : : : :, : : : : :, : :, :,, : : : : : :, overarching : :,,,, :, :, : :,, : :, : :,, : :,, :, :, P : :,, : :, : : needed : : needs :,, neighborhoods :, : oversight : overwhelming : : : : p.m : page : : neutral : : never : : new : : : : : : P : permit : permits : permitted : person : : : : : :, :, : powerful : : : : :, :, practice : : : : : :,, : precedence : precedent : :, precedents : preceding : precise : : precisely : :, : :, : petition : Petitioner :, person's :, : predicate : : : : :, preexisting : : officers : : officer's : : :, : papers : parameters : parked : parking : : : : : :, : part : : : :,, : : :, :, : :,, : :, : :, : particular : : :,, : : : : : : : : : : Petitioner's : : :, : pizza : : : : place : : plays : please : : oh : : : Okay : : :, : : : : :, : : preface : : : : presents : point : : preserving : : : : pretend : : non : norm : normal :, noted : : notion : number : : :, : : : : : : : : numbers : :,,, O Alderson Reporting Company Official put : : : : : : : : Q reasonably : : : : respectfully : Respondent : : : : : : : : reasons : : REBUTTAL : Respondent's : : : quantum : question : : : : : : : : : :, :, :, record : : : :, : : received : receiving : questionable :, responding : response : rest : result : : :, probably :, problem : : questioning : : : : questions : : : : quite : :, R R : :, :, : raised : ran :, : random : : : : revenue­raising referred : : resulted : reflects : related : : relation : relationship : relatively : : : reverse : right : :, : : : :, : :,,, : :, : :,, : : : : robbed : ROBERTS : : relies : remainder : remaining : remains : remember : remotely : render : repeatedly : reply : : Page  :, : : :,, :, : : :, : :, ruling : run :, : : :,, : : : : : : :, : : : running : :, : : : : runs : : :, :, : S S : : safety : : : : : : : : :,,,, sales : pretty : : prevent : principle :, prior : : : probability : : probable : :, : : : : : :,, : procedure :, proceeded : product : : : prongs : proper :, proposed : proposition : prosecution : prosecutor : protect : : prove : provide : proximity : : randomly : rationale : rationales : read : really : :, : : : : : : representative : : : : : report :, reported : :, reason : : public : :, pulled : pulling : pulls : purely : purpose : : :, :, : : : :,,, : : : :, reasonable :, residents : : :, :, :, : : : : : : : : : : : : respect : : request : require : : requirement : Robinson : requires : Rodriguez : resemble : reserve : resident :, : : : : : : : :, : : :, :,, : : : : : : : : : : : : : :, respected : purposefully : purposes : : : : : : : :, Salt :, : :,, : : : : saw : :, :, :, :, : : :,, :, :, : : : : : : : : :, saying :, : says :, :, : : : scenario : scene : scheme : search : : :,, :, : : : : : : : :,, :, :,, : : routine : routinely :, rule :, : :,, : :, : : : : : :, :, : :, : Alderson Reporting Company Official staggered : stand : standard :,, : : standing : : standpoint : start : : state : :, : : : : significant : : : : : : simpler : simply : : single : : sir : situation : : : : : : : State's : stated : :, statement : States :,, : : :, :, : situations : sizable : slate : solely : Solicitor :, statistic : : : : solve : : somebody : : :, : statistics : :, : : :, searched : : : searches : : searching : : second : : : secondly : secured : see : :, : : : : : : : : : seen :, : : sees : seized : : : self­correct : sending : sense : : : : stopping : : : :, : : : : : stops : : :, : : : : : : : : : : : : : : store :, straightforward :, : street : : :, strength : Strieff : : : : sent : someplace : sentence : : sorry : : separate : : : : : : sequitur : serious :, :, : serve : : served : set : setting : settled : : Seventh : short : : short­stay :, :, : short­term : : shot : : shot's : show : : : shy :, side : significance : sort : : : sorts : : Sotomayor :, :, :,, :, : : : :,, : :, :,, : :, :, :,,,, :, :, :, :, :, : : :, sounds : South : specific : spectrum : speeding : Spontaneous : squarely : : strike : strong : : study : subject : subjective : : :, : stay : : step : : steps : stop :, : : :,,, :, :,, : :,, : : : :,, : :,,, :, :, subjective­purpose : :, :,,, :, subjectively : : :,, : : : : :,, : :,, :, :,, :, :,, :,,, :,,,, suggesting : :,, : suggestion : :, :, : Sun : : : : : :, subsequent : sufficient : sufficiently : suggested : superseding : submitted : : : :, : : Alderson Reporting Company Page  :, support :, stopped : : : : : : supported : : : supporting : : : suppose : : supposed : suppress :, : : : suppressed : : :, : suppressible : :, : : : suppressing : : : : suppression : : : : : : : Supreme :, : : : : :, sure :, : surefire : surprise : surprised : : : surveillance : suspect : : suspicion : : : : : : : : :,,,, : : : : : : : :, : :, : : : : : : : : sweeping : T T :, take : : Official Page  :, : : : : : taken : : : talk : : : : : : talked : talking : : :,, : target :, : taught : Taylor : : : : : : true : : truly : try : : trying : : : :, :, tried : :, :, : :,,, :,,,, : :, :,,,, :,, : : : : :, :, turn : : :, : : : : : : : : :,, :, turns : : :, : : : : visit : :, : :, visiting : visitor : : visits : unlawfully­seized : unnecessary : unprecedented unreasonable : walked : unreasonableness walking : : unrelated : W waited : walk : : : walks : : : : want : : : : : : two : : : : : : : : unusual : :, : two­part : two­step : twofold : : : : : : : : : up­to­date : upheld : upset :,, use : usually : Utah :,, : wants : : wanted :, wanting : : thinks : teaching : : third : tell : :, telling : tells : : thoroughly : thought : : : : TYLER : : : : : : : thousand : three :, : type :, : : : : : temporal : tend : terribly : Terry : : : :,, : :, : :, : : :, : : : : test : : : :, : : testified : : testimony : : Thank : : :,, : they'd :, thing : : things : : : : : : : : : three­prong : : ticket : : tie : time : : : times : : tip :,, : today : : told : total : totality :, totally : town : traffic :, : typically : : U ultimate : unanimously : unconstitutional : : underlying : undermines : understand : : : : : : : : : understood : : :, : : :, : : :, Utah's : : : :,, : : V v : : : : : : : :, valid : value :, : valve : : : : : variety : view :, undertaken : : : viewed : : warrant :, :,, :, : :, :, :, :, : : : : : : : :, : : : :, : : :, :,, : : :,, : :, : :, :, :, : :,, : :, : : : : : : : :, : : : : unforeseeable : violate : : :,,, : : unfortunate : United :,, : : :, :, violent : unlawful : : virtually : : violation : : warranting : warrants :, : : : :,, : think : :,,, trafficking : :,,, : :,,, : : training : Alderson Reporting Company Page  Official yield :, : Z : : : : : , : : : : : : : ­ : : : : : : : : : : :, : : : : : : , : : :, :, :, :, :, :, : :,,, :, :, :,,,,, :, : : :, :, :, :, :, : : : : :, : : :, :,,, : :,,, : :, : Washington :, wasn't :, : : : : :, : : watching : Watt : : : : We'll : we're :,, : :,, : : : : :,, : : :, : we've : : : : : : : : : : : : :,, : : weapons : week : weighing : well­trained : : : : went : White : will­you­talk­to­... : : : wipe : witness : : Wong : work : : :,, : : :,, : :, :, :, :,,, :,,,, works : : : :,, world :, : :, : worried : : :, :,,,, :,,, : : : :, :, : : : :, :, :,,, :,, : :, : : : wouldn't : : :, :, writing : wrong : : X Y x :, wave : way :, : : : : : :,, : : : Ybarra : yeah : : : years :,, : Alderson Reporting Company 