Official ­ Subject to Final Review         IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES       ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ x                                  REBECCA FRIEDRICHS, ET AL.            :             Petitioners               : No. ­         v.                          CALIFORNIA TEACHERS                 ASSOCIATION, ET AL.                  : : : ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ x                                                         Washington, D.C.                         Monday, January ,                  The above­entitled matter came on for oral       argument before the Supreme Court of the United States         at : a.m.   APPEARANCES: MICHAEL A. CARVIN, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf           of Petitioners.  EDWARD C. DUMONT, ESQ., Solicitor of California, San              Francisco, Cal.; on behalf of Respondent Attorney       General of California.   DAVID C. FREDERICK, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf of            Union Respondents.  GEN. DONALD B. VERRILLI, JR., ESQ., Solicitor General,              Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; for United       States, as amicus curiae, supporting Respondents.      Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review                                    C O N T E N T S ORAL ARGUMENT OF                                      PAGE MICHAEL A. CARVIN, ESQ.       On behalf of the Petitioners                          ORAL ARGUMENT OF   EDWARD C. DUMONT, ESQ.          On behalf of Respondent Attorney General      of California                                      ORAL ARGUMENT OF   DAVID C. FREDERICK, ESQ.        On behalf of the Union Respondents                      ORAL ARGUMENT OF   GEN. DONALD B. VERRILLI, JR., ESQ.            For United States, as amicus curiae,      supporting Respondents                              REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF   MICHAEL A. CARVIN, ESQ.       On behalf of the Petitioners                           Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review                                       P R O C E E D I N G S                                            (: a.m.)              CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument       this morning in Case ­, Friedrichs v. The        California Teachers Association, et al.                 Mr. Carvin.             ORAL ARGUMENT OF MICHAEL A. CARVIN                    ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS                 MR. CARVIN: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it         please the Court:               Every year, Petitioners are required to      provide significant support to a group that advocates an          ideological viewpoint which they oppose and do not wish         to subsidize. Abood's authorization of this clear First         Amendment violation should be overturned, both to end        this ongoing deprivation of basic speech and association        rights, and to restore consistency and predictability to        the Court's First Amendment jurisprudence.                 JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Carvin, is it       permissible, in your view, to allow the union to be the           exclusive representative so that nobody else is at the         bargaining table?              MR. CARVIN: Yes, that's fine with us. Our          objection, of course, is being forced to subsidize that         exclusive representative.  Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review             The fact that they are exclusive      representative impinges on my clients because it       disables them from individually negotiating with the       school board, but that is justified by the need for an           exclusive representative.              And that is why, indeed, requiring agency       fees in the collective bargaining context is less        justified than, for example, requiring agency fees to        support union lobby.               In the ­­ in collective bargaining context,       we are required to free ride on the union because they           are the exclusive representative and we don't have our         own vehicle. So the free­rider justification is far         weaker in the collective bargaining context than it is         in the union lobbying context.                 JUSTICE SCALIA: Mr. Carvin, is ­­ is it         okay to force somebody to contribute to a cause that he            does believe in?               MR. CARVIN: I wouldn't think, Your Honor,         that you could force Republicans to give contributions.                    JUSTICE SCALIA: Yes. That's ­­ that's what         I'm thinking. Could you enact a law? Let's say the             national political parties are in trouble so they enact         a law that says all ­­ all members of the Republican           party, if you want to be a member you have to contribute             Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review so much money.                                       MR. CARVIN: No.    JUSTICE SCALIA: Is that okay?      MR. CARVIN: No, it's not, and that's        because the bedrock principle, as Harris made clear, is         not whether or not you vividly oppose what they're         saying ­­                         JUSTICE SCALIA: Right.    MR. CARVIN: ­­ it's because you don't wish         to subsidize it.               JUSTICE SCALIA: Exactly. So I don't know          why you're putting so much emphasis on the fact that          your ­­ your clients oppose. It really wouldn't matter,          would it?              MR. CARVIN: No. And I don't ­­ I did want              to point out that that's the reason that they've brought          this lawsuit. But ­­ but no, you're a thousand percent            right, Your Honor. You don't ­­                  JUSTICE KENNEDY: If ­­ if you were to         prevail, what would happen with private employers in a         State which said that there should be an ­­ a union            shop?                                     MR. CARVIN: Nothing, Your Honor.      JUSTICE KENNEDY: What ­­    MR. CARVIN: For two ­­     Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review JUSTICE KENNEDY: And ­­ and because?       MR. CARVIN: Because the First Amendment                               doesn't apply to private employers, and because in Beck         the Court established the rules for agency shops based         on the statute without any First Amendment ­­                   JUSTICE KENNEDY: I think that's correct as         a basic distinction. It is true, though, assuming that          you have a State statute which allows an agency shop or            a ­­ a closed shop, that that is State participation in            the very kind of coerced membership and coerced speech         that you're objecting to.                MR. CARVIN: Well, I don't, in candor, think          that that would create State action under the Court's         modern jurisprudence, such as Moose Lodge, where it        turns on who is making the decision that is being          objected to. In your hypothetical it would be the          private employer.              But that aside, as the Court made clear in         Harris, even if it did reach First Amendment, there's         a ­­ there's a serious difference between a grudging           authorization or the government permitting private      employers to engage in agency shops and the government         itself affirmatively imposing them on its own public        employees.             JUSTICE GINSBURG: What about the Railway       Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review JUSTICE KAGAN: What is the ­­      JUSTICE GINSBURG: What about the Railway       MR. CARVIN: I apologize.      JUSTICE GINSBURG: The Railway Labor Act.       MR. CARVIN: Yes.    JUSTICE GINSBURG: You ­­ you answered       Labor ­­                         Labor Act?                                                  Justice Kennedy that, in the private sector, this ­­        this is all right, you can have an agency shop. How            about under the Railway Labor Act?                  MR. CARVIN: Well, as you know from Street,         you can have agency shops but the agency fees can only           go to things that are germane to collective bargaining.         In other words, they impose the Abood rule in the          private sector as a matter of statutory interpretation,         and nothing the Court says about ­­                  JUSTICE GINSBURG: But you don't have any        First Amendment argument about that, about the ­­ either         the private sector or railroads.                 MR. CARVIN: Not at all, Your Honor. We ­­          we are strictly limiting ourselves to public employees        because public employers obviously are subject to far        greater constraints under the First Amendment that       the ­­ Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review             JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, one of the points of         your public employee cases generally, Mr. Carvin, is        essentially to ensure that when the government acts as         an employer, that the government be put in the same          position as a private employer; in other words, that the           various constraints that would constrain the government       when it's acting as sovereign fall away and a different           and lesser set of constraints apply that are meant         essentially to ensure that the government doesn't use        its position as leverage over things it oughtn't to be          able to control, but that the government can do the same           things that a private employer can.                   And so why doesn't this fall within that        category of things? In other words, you've just said          private employer can decide to do this. That's not a           constitutional problem. So too with the government        employer.             MR. CARVIN: For two reasons, Justice Kagan.        First, I must respectfully disagree       with the premise.   None of the Court's First Amendment       jurisprudence quite  says public employers have the same       rights as private   employers.             Private employers under    the Constitution can   discriminate on the basis of political affiliation.       They can even discriminate on the basis of sexual         Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review orientation. But nobody thinks that public employers        can do that.               Plus which, even under Pickering, for      example, the deferential review you're referring to       imposes greater constraints on public employers than       private employers. Bargaining ­­                                        JUSTICE KAGAN: As I said, Mr. Carvin ­­         MR. CARVIN: Sorry.    JUSTICE KAGAN: But there's a lesser set of          constraints. And ­­ and the lesser set is basically to           draw a line and to ensure that the government doesn't           use its position as employer to do things it oughtn't          properly to do.               But the ­­ the government, when it's acting        as an employer with respect to its employee workforce,         really ought to be able to do the same things that a            private employer can.               MR. CARVIN: The Court's     government­as­employer speech and First Amendment draw a       clear distinction between restricting employee speech,      like under the Pickering line of cases where there is          deferential review, and circumstances such as this where        they do leverage the employment relationship to coerce        the employee to subsidize or associate with an outside         group. Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review That's obviously ­­  JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: How is that different ­­       MR. CARVIN: ­­ for example, Rutan is                                            subject to strict scrutiny because they are leveraging        the employment relationship to force you to associate        with a political party.                                         JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, that sounds ­­      MR. CARVIN: Similarly ­­    JUSTICE KAGAN: ­­ like you're drawing a        distinction between restricting speech and subsidizing      speech. And I had always thought that these were two            sides of the same coin, that compelled speech is ­­ is           no less and no greater an offense than compelled         silence.             MR. CARVIN: Yes. Certainly in terms of         Petitioners' rights. But Your Honor, the scrutiny given         to the speech being subsided doesn't dictate the level         of ­­ of speech scrutiny given to the compulsion speech.                      For example, the ­­ you can stop unions from         making political contributions under the case law, but        that hardly suggests you can compel a nonmember to          subsidize the union's contributions.                You can stop public employees under the       Hatch Act from engaging in basic political       participation, but that hardly suggests that you could        Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review require a nonmember to subsidize political activity.                    So there's always been a clear distinction        in the case law between those two things precisely         because subsidization is an entirely different      infringement than restricting employee speech.                 Restricting employee speech is an inherent      part of the employment relationship. The employer has         to be able to restrict the employees' speech, as this          Court has frequently noted, or you couldn't have a         workplace. Plus which we give deferential review        because we don't want the Federal judiciary       micromanaging the literally hundreds of thousands of       personnel decisions that public employers make every       day.             Neither of those concerns is present when       you have a categorical rule that requires one set of           employees to subsidize an outside advocacy group like a         political party or like a union, and that's because          you're not involving the Federal judiciary in personnel        decisions. And it's certainly not an inherent part of          the employment relationship. It is, to use your phrase,          leveraging the employment relationship to require      something that the State couldn't require directly.                   JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, why are we       treating the government differently than a private        Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review employer?             You just earlier said, and I think our ­­         our cases are replete with the point that as employer,          the government can already restrict speech which is, I         think, a higher problem than subsidization.                   We've already permitted subsidization of bar      associations, of government programs. We've permitted       assessments on a lot of different levels, so why can't           the government, as employer, create a State entity?         Because this union under California law is a State          entity.             MR. CARVIN: No.                JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Oh ­­                MR. CARVIN: I'm sorry.                 JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: ­­ I ­­ I beg to differ.            Hold on, Mr. Carvin. I'll get you the section.                      MR. CARVIN: Sure.                JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: It says, "When      recognized as the exclusive bargaining representative, a       union assumes an official position in the operational        structure of a school."                 So it seems to me that ­­ and California         tells the union what topics it can negotiate on, it          requires them to do training, and in the end it accepts           their recommendations with respect to ­­ to the issues         Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review of employment at its own will, meaning the State is          creating the union as part of the employment training         and other responsibilities.               MR. CARVIN: Justice Sotomayor, I think it's         important to draw a distinction between having an         official position ­­ they certainly do. They are the          exclusive representative of the employees ­­ and       suggesting that they are somehow State actors.                   If they were State actors, the State       legislature could tell the unions not to advocate pay         raises. It could tell them not to ­­                    JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Oh, in fact, it might be         able to do that.                MR. CARVIN: I don't ­­                  JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: If it ­­ it tells them         what they can ­­ they give ­­ the State legislature has           given them the right to do that.                   MR. CARVIN: Right.                JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But what would take away        from their right to say, no, you can't bargain on these           particular topics?              MR. CARVIN: The First Amendment. In other         words, the ­­ the scope of collective bargaining is         obviously something the State can dictate. It could         never dictate the union's position on collective ­­       Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Absolutely.    MR. CARVIN: Well ­­ well, then, that's my                                 point. But of course if the ­­ if they were State            officials subordinate to the State legislature, the       State legislature could tell them, don't advocate pay        raises, don't advocate this for health and benefit.                    JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, they wouldn't say,       don't advocate this with respect to the State        legislature, but they could say that's not going to be          the subject of discussion at the bargaining table.        Those are two different things altogether.                  MR. CARVIN: Well, again, we need to        distinguish between collective bargaining and lobbying.                  JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Exactly.                MR. CARVIN: Exactly. And ­­ and here's the          point: They couldn't ­­ collective bargaining is        unique, because it requires public officials to meet and         negotiate in good faith and mediate any impasses with         unions. None of that exists in lobbying, for example.          State legislators could close their door whenever they        want.             JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, even ­­ even with ­­                    MR. CARVIN: What ­­                JUSTICE KENNEDY: ­­ even ­­ aren't       charges ­­ suppose the union has an article or a public            Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review relations campaign to protest merit pay. I take it           that's a chargeable expense.                 my ­­             MR. CARVIN: Yes, under Lehnert. And on         JUSTICE KENNEDY: So ­­ so collective       bargaining in ­­ in this instance subsumes ­­ includes         this wide­ranging effort on the part of the union to          have a public relations campaign in favor of principles          that some of its members ­­ that some teachers strongly          object to.              MR. CARVIN: Exactly, Your Honor. And my         point in response to Justice Sotomayor would be if they          were really State officials subject to subordination by        the State legislature, the State legislature could say,        just like they could say to their own employees, don't          run public relations campaigns adverse to the       government. And the key point is, I think they say you             can abandon ­­ you can ban collective bargaining, but         you can't ban lobbying.                But it's important to focus on why that is         so. The reason that is so is because we are imposing an             obligation on public officials in collective bargaining,       that exists nowhere else, to negotiate in good faith         with the union. But they couldn't tell the union don't           advocate to the school board, pay raises, and things         Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review like that. They can simply revoke collective bargaining         by saying, just like the State legislature, the school         board doesn't have to listen.                             JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: If we ­­     MR. CARVIN: So the distinction is between        what public officials have to meet and negotiate on, but          that doesn't translate into any ability to tell the         union what to say or do. And I'm assuming ­­                                  with that.              JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: In terms of ­­      MR. CARVIN: ­­ the Respondents will agreed        JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But the teachers can       lobby. There's nothing wrong with the teachers        speaking.             MR. CARVIN: And that's the whole point.        The teachers can lobby. They can go to the State           legislature.             union can.  JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Uh­huh. Just like the                    MR. CARVIN: Just like the union can.                    And yet, they can't be forced to subsidize        the union's lobbying ­­               JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But what does your       lobbying do ­­              MR. CARVIN: However ­­ so with respect to         Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review collective bargaining, they can't negotiate. So the        free­rider rationale is much weaker in the collective        bargaining context, because the teachers' right to       negotiate with the public officials that the union is         talking to is ­­ is extinguished in those circumstances,         even though in lobbying, they can engage in their own          lobbying, but we don't allow agency fees for lobbying.                     JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Carvin, you come here,        of course, with a heavy burden. That's always true in            cases where somebody asks us to overrule a decision. It            seems to be particularly true here.                  This is a case in which there are tens of           thousands of contracts with these provisions. Those        contracts affect millions of employees, maybe as high as          million employees.               So what special justification are you      offering here?              MR. CARVIN: There are two special       justifications, Justice Kagan. The first one is that         this ­­ Abood erroneously denies a fundamental right.         It doesn't expand a fundamental right. And as the Court            made clear in Gant, the right of the citizen not to be            subject to unconstitutional treatment outweighs any      reliance or predictability interests of stare decisis.                   JUSTICE KAGAN: You say this a lot in          Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review MR. CARVIN: The second ­­     JUSTICE KAGAN: Excuse me.     MR. CARVIN: Sure.    JUSTICE KAGAN: You say this a lot in your           your ­­                                                 briefs. But I ­­ I ­­ I guess I found it hard to                  understand that the idea that every time we deny a claim            of right, whether it's the First Amendment or the Fourth          Amendment or the Fourteenth Amendment, that that denial        of the claim would not have any stare decisis effect. I            mean, we do that constantly. We do that tens of times            every year.              MR. CARVIN: But ­­ but you are asking         what ­­ if the Court concludes that Abood was erroneous,          what special justification is there?                 JUSTICE KAGAN: Yes. And your answer is         essentially you don't need a special justification if         the initial decision improperly denied a claim of right.                                  MR. CARVIN: Right.    JUSTICE KAGAN: I guess I'm saying that I          find that an extremely difficult concept to understand.        It would take away stare decisis effect from numerous ­­         I mean, just hundreds, thousands of our decisions.                    MR. CARVIN: But Justice Kagan, with       respect, I think the proof is in the pudding. The Court             Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review has never upheld an erroneous denial of a right on stare            decisis.             JUSTICE BREYER: And you think all the        Fourth Amendment cases, in your opinion, are correct. I          mean, you know, the police can go search a car, the good             faith rule in respect to admission of evidence that was          seized unlawfully under the Fourth Amendment. I read a           lot of criticism of those things in the paper. And it            seems to me you could get people who are judges, who are            up here, who thought that the Fourth Amendment should be          really extended and, in fact, there should be no rule          that gives police any special authority to search a car.                                   MR. CARVIN: That ­­    JUSTICE BREYER: There should be no rule        that stops any incidents from coming in. I mean, there            are dozens of cases where this Court has denied         individual rights. And you're saying all those cases         are now free of any stare decisis inhibition.                    unions?             Is that the point, or is it just labor         MR. CARVIN: No, no. Your Honor, in fact,          the Fourth Amendment is not a hypothetical. That was           what Gant involved. And Gant is the one that I was             quoting when it says the right to constitutional        treatment outweighs the reliance interests of stare       Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review But if I could move to my second ­­         JUSTICE BREYER: Well, wait. Well, what        decisis.                         about the Eighth Amendment? That's a good one. There's            an individual right, some think, perhaps, against       capital punishment. The Court has consistently ruled        against it. So I guess if that's ever considered again,            under your view, the Court would give no weight to stare           decisis.             MR. CARVIN: If the Court was convinced that         capital punishment was clearly outlawed by the       Constitution, I think it would be very strange to tell           people who were being executed in the future that even          though this is an unconstitutional execution, we are        bound by our erroneous prior decisions.                  JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, Mr. Carvin, let's ­­       let's ­­ let's assume that stare decisis is an important          consideration for the Court. Let's assume that.                    MR. CARVIN: Sure.                JUSTICE KENNEDY: What about the answer to        Justice Kagan's questions about the many contracts,       perhaps thousands of contracts? Would they suddenly be         endangered? Would they all be void? Could you address           that?             MR. CARVIN: There is no reliance interest.        Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review These contracts will operate precisely the same, the day         after Abood is overruled, as they would before.                    then?                         JUSTICE GINSBURG: But what would happen       MR. CARVIN: Sorry.    JUSTICE GINSBURG: What would happen to the        employee who said now Abood is off the books?                                 MR. CARVIN: Right.    JUSTICE GINSBURG: I want back the agency         fee that I was compelled to pay. That was an            unconstitutional exaction. So all of the people who         paid these fees against their will ­­                              back?             MR. CARVIN: When you ­­     JUSTICE GINSBURG: ­­ have a right to get it           MR. CARVIN: No. No more than anybody had          the right to get recompensed under Citizens United or         the commercial speech cases, once you relied those First         Amendment speeches doctrine there. As I understand it,          the Court's analysis prescribes prospectively. That's       all we're asking is for prospective relief. It doesn't          apply retroactively.              And to get to the point, all of the benefits          remain precisely the same. They ­­ simply, the union's          future bargaining efforts would no longer be subject to         Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review unwilling agency fee.                                       JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, Mr. Carvin ­­      MR. CARVIN: Do you ­­     JUSTICE KAGAN: ­­ remember, one, you're       assuming that these provisions are completely severable,       which I imagine depends on the contract.                    But number two, even suppose that they are        severable, these provisions are bargained for benefits.       The contracts would read differently. The unions would         have gotten different things if that provision had not         been there.              So you're essentially saying that the exact       same contract should go forward, notwithstanding that       the union has given up things, or has not gotten things,           because the agency fee provision is in the contract.                     MR. CARVIN: No. Again, I must respectfully          disagree with the factual matter. The union did not go           in and say we would have asked for a percent            increase, but now we're going to sell out our members'          rights to a percent increase so we can line our own              pockets with agency fees ­­                                        JUSTICE KAGAN: The unions have ­­      MR. CARVIN: ­­ but they're not ­­ sorry.         JUSTICE KAGAN: ­­ for ­­ for ­­ for ­­ many           ways of dealing with their need for adequate funding in          Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review order to perform their collective responsibilities ­­      collective bargaining responsibilities. They asked for       this way and not for other possible ways of achieving          adequate funding. And you would be essentially        stripping them of this way, and not giving them anything          to replace that with.                MR. CARVIN: Well again, they didn't       negotiate with the employer for funding because they        don't get any funding from the employer; they get it          from their members. So no position they took in          collective bargaining is at all affected by the        completely separate issue of how they ­­                  JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Ah, but that's the       question, isn't it? Would it be illegal for the          government, as employer or government, to fund the        union?             MR. CARVIN: That's a ­­ I thought about           that, Justice Sotomayor. It's a very tricky question.                      Under Johanns, for example, the government      can engage in a lot of speech that it can't compel            citizens to engage in. The government, for example, can          subsidize Planned Parenthood, but it couldn't require       citizens to subsidize Planned Parenthood. So in that         sense, yes, the government would have far greater        leeway. Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review That said ­­                           JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So if the union had a        way, or something to negotiate, which was right now, the          union participates in the grievance procedure and it        pays certain expenses for that, it could have said to          the employer, we're no longer getting enough money to be          the exclusive representative of every employee ­­                  MR. CARVIN: Right.                JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: ­­ so now we want you to          fund certain things.               MR. CARVIN: Well ­­                JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: That could very well       have been part of the negotiation.                  MR. CARVIN: Not in California, for two        reasons. One is the State statute requires agency fees.          The employer couldn't have done anything with respect to         agency fees. That's all decided by statute.                    JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: No. You're ­­ you're        assuming ­­             MR. CARVIN: Prior ­­                JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I'm not assuming the       state of the law as it exists now. I'm assuming that we             were to ­­ to undo and say they can't charge an agency            fee.             MR. CARVIN: Right.    Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review             JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: All right? California's       going to have to respond somehow. It's now breaching          the agreement it had with the union.                               MR. CARVIN: It's ­­    JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: They're going to have to        come to some sort of accommodation.                    MR. CARVIN: Right. And they would excise       the agency fees part of the contract.                   JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Even if they did, could        they then decide to fund the union?                   MR. CARVIN: Oh. But that's a separate          question.             JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well ­­                MR. CARVIN: If ­­ if they wanted to go          ahead and fund the union, as I said, they've got some            discretion to do it. I think the one area the            government doesn't have the power to subsidize speech is         when it's engaged ­­ subsidizing political speech in a         viewpoint­discriminatory way.              JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Let's ­­ let's take that        aside. I'm talking about the ­­ the collective         bargaining part of the union.                 MR. CARVIN: Oh, okay. Then I'm maybe not          understanding it. If ­­ if the union is ­­ could they            subsidize the union's collective bargaining efforts?      Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Mm­hmm.    MR. CARVIN: I think they might be able to,                                   but of course no State ­­                 JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: All right. So why can't         they assess ­­ why can't they assess all of their          employees a tax for that contribution?                   MR. CARVIN: Right. And that was the point          I was trying to get to, which is agency fees don't go            just to collective bargaining. As we know, they also go           to political activity. And I don't think the government           could fund political activity in a      viewpoint­discriminatory way.              JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I'm a little ­­                   JUSTICE ALITO: Is there any history in        American labor management relations, at least going       back, I don't know what, , years of employers           paying for unions? I thought the union movement was           against this long ago.                MR. CARVIN: Your ­­ your recollection of        history is correct. And of course, currently no         government ever funds unions. Indeed, under the NLRA,         it's ­­             JUSTICE BREYER: There ­­ there were company        unions, but regardless ­­               MR. CARVIN: But ­­    Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review JUSTICE BREYER: ­­ I'd like two minutes        MR. CARVIN: But if I ­­       JUSTICE BREYER: Sir, go ahead. Finish.                    to ­­                         Finish, finish.                                                  MR. CARVIN: Before you ­­     JUSTICE BREYER: Finish. Finish, please.       MR. CARVIN: Just one more sentence.       Under the NLRA, it's a felony for the         employer to give the unions money because it would         influence the unions, and contrary to the entire        structure of collective bargaining.                subject?                         JUSTICE SCALIA: Is it a bargainable        MR. CARVIN: Excuse me ­­     JUSTICE SCALIA: Is it a bargainable        subject? I mean, it's a political subject. I suppose              you can enact a statute that says the government will           fund you, but is ­­ is it bargainable? Is it one of             those items that the union can bargain for?                    MR. CARVIN: It doesn't exist, it's never        existed in American society, and there's no way the         public employer, particularly because agency fees as a        matter of statute, could all of a sudden say, sure,           we're going to take our taxpayer dollars and start         Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review giving money to unions, because they've always been        funded through voluntary contributions.                If they did become recipients of Federal or        State funds, that would impose all kinds of restrictions         on their speech and other activities that the unions         presumably would never have asked for wholly apart from         any funding shortfall.               JUSTICE BREYER: I have a different ­­         somewhat different subject, but it ­­ and I don't know           how to get you to focus on this exactly. Because I ­­ I               think there are good arguments on your side, and there          are good arguments on the other side.                   When you go into this, it was, in my view, a           kind of compromise years ago. But it was years            ago. It was years ago. I mean, maybe Marbury v.              Madison was wrong. There are people who argue certain          aspects were.              And the concerns I ­­ I have in terms of            workability are not so much the details. I guess           something would work out in the labor area. It would           certainly affect the bar. It would certainly affect the          integrated bar. It would certainly affect at least         student fees at universities. It would require        overruling a host of other cases, I think, at least two             or three that I can find, and that's quite a big deal.              Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review MR. CARVIN: It certainly is.      JUSTICE BREYER: And so ­­ so what is it, in                                   your mind, that you can say from the point of view of            this Court's role in this society in that if, of course,           we can overrule a compromise that was worked out over            years and has lasted reasonably well ­­ not perfectly.         I guess people could overrule our decisions just as         easily. I've had a few dissents. In those dissents I             think I'm right and the others are wrong, and then think           I'm wrong and they're right. All right? There are a            lot of people who think that. Do you see where I'm            going?             I'd like you to talk for a minute, because          it is a matter of considerable concern to me, even when            I'm on the other side of something.                               MR. CARVIN: Justice Breyer ­­     JUSTICE BREYER: And you ­­ you start        overruling things, what happens to the country thinking        of us as a kind of stability in ­­ in a world that is                tough because it changes a lot.                   MR. CARVIN: And I think you put your finger           on precisely the same question. I think the principal           reason to overrule Abood is that all of the rationales          offered in support of Abood's result directly conflict        with other precedent of this Court. So by overruling          Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review Abood, you ­­ you don't do what you're saying, you do           just the opposite.               If I could walk through the list for you:          The standard of review, the ­­ the new rationale for          Abood is it's subject to deferential government as        employer review. It's contrary to Harris, it's contrary         to Knox, it's contrary to Abood itself, which is huge          Pickering analysis.              The notion that the union's duty somehow       justifies agency fees because they've got a duty to          represent nonmembers, which we've chatted about, that       comes from the dissenting opinion in Lehnert. So you'd          have to overturn Lehnert, which characterizes this       argument as turning the Court's principles on its head         and is wholly unworkable in the name of preserving         another precedent.              The notion that collective bargaining     doesn't involve matters of public concern, which has        been offered up, that's contrary to Harris, Abood        itself, which said it was, Pickering, which involved        basic issues of school finances, so you would have to          strike all of those down.                 Respondents' radical arguments that it's not      entitled to any First Amendment protection under the        employee speech doctrine and under the Glickman       Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review commercial speech doctrine is contrary, not only to        Abood, every Abood case, and the Harris dissenting        opinion because ­­                          JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Carvin ­­     MR. CARVIN: ­­ because everyone recognizes       there's some First Amendment protection.                 JUSTICE KAGAN: I mean, it seems to me ­­ I            guess we have one disagreement, which is how well Abood          fits with all of our other employee speech cases,         because I think Abood fits pretty well. It didn't cite            Pickering, but it essentially had the exact same        concerns as Pickering, which was the employer's       interest, the ­­ the government's interest as an        employer, and how that related to an employee's speech         right and ­­ and basically arguing for a ­­ a balancing             test.             So ­­ so really what your argument comes        down to is two very recent cases, which is Harris and           Knox. And there you might say that Harris and Knox gave            indications that the Court was not friendly to Abood.         But those were two extremely recent cases, and they were          both cases that actually were decided within the Abood         framework.             In the Harris case, the parties came here        and explicitly asked us to overrule that case. Almost          Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review all the briefing was about overruling that case, and the          Court decided not to overrule that case and instead to          say that ­­ that the employees there were ­­ were simply           not public employees at all.                 So taking two extremely recent cases, which       admittedly expressed some frustration with Abood, but       also specifically decided not to overrule Abood, I mean,          just seems like it's ­­ it's nothing of the kind that we            usually say when we usually say that a precedent has to            be overturned because it's come into conflict with an         entire body of case law.                 MR. CARVIN: Again, I must respectfully        disagree. I think the classic justification for stare          decisis overturning the case is that subsequent cases        have undermined the reasoning and principles there.                     I think we can certainly agree that Harris       and Knox certainly undermined the doctrinal      underpinnings of Abood. The fact that they're really         recent as opposed to not so recent doesn't change the          fact that Abood has been overwritten.                  Citizens United pointed to two differing      lines of cases in the First Amendment area as its          principal rationale for overturning Austin. The Hudgens        v. NLRB case. In Logan Valley, it upheld something. In            Lloyd Corporation, it distinguished it but not overruled        Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review it. Hudgens ­­                                       JUSTICE BREYER: Well, I ­­ I ­­         MR. CARVIN: This doesn't ­­ this ­­       JUSTICE BREYER: I'll accept that. Let me         accept that what you can do is you can go through ­­ and             you're good at it, and so is the other side. You know,             you go through the cases and you draw the line here,           there, and the other place. And I'm trying to abstract           from that in a very basic way for this reason.                         I think Plessy v. Ferguson was a case that         certainly should have been overruled. It certainly        should have been overruled because it was basic, because         it was a right to treat people equally, and there were            millions of people who were not. Now, you see the level            of abstraction I'm working at?                 Now, if I put that same level of abstraction          here, I see the following: You will go out this door,             and you will buy hundreds of things, if not thousands,          where money will go from your pocket into the hands of           people, including many government people, who will spend        it on things you disagree with. I don't see anything            too basic in the lines you're drawing there.                    The second thing is, what you said was ­­        and it's true ­­ employees can say what they want.          We're talking about six people in a room bargaining          Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review about wages, hours, and working conditions. That's        pretty far removed from the heart of the First         Amendment, and pretty close to ordinary physical       activity carried on through words. Regulation, if you         like.             So I can't find a basic principle that's          there that's erroneous as in these major cases that we          have overruled. And if you have a response to that, I'd             like to hear it.                MR. CARVIN: Sure. As to requiring people         to give money to ­­ which they don't wish to give,           Thomas Jefferson said that was sinful and tyrannical.        James Madison famously said, requiring three pence is        the thing. So ­­ so it's not at all something that            we've invented.              For example, you couldn't require, as Rutan       makes crystal clear, people to give money to a political           organization. Because money is not money when it's         supporting speech; it is ­­ it is association with an          advocacy organization. And the compelled association is        something that this Court has consistently condemned as        basic to the ­­ Abood itself said it's contrary to the           most basic principles of ­­ of the founding, which is to           force people to ­­               JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Carvin, do I take         Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review it ­­ it was something that Justice Breyer said; you          didn't respond directly to it. He said if Abood falls,           then so do our decisions in Keller on mandatory bar          association, on student activities fee.                 Do you ­­ you agree that that would be a          consequence of your theory?                MR. CARVIN: Well, no. In fact, that         hypothetical was completely eliminated by Harris, which       made it quite clear that neither Keller nor Southworth         was in any jeopardy, because the rationale of those         cases was significantly different than the rationale of        Abood.                                     JUSTICE KAGAN: Those cases ­­     MR. CARVIN: Keller ­­    JUSTICE KAGAN: ­­ start with Abood, Mr.        Carvin. Those cases say Abood is the framework, and          those cases decide the questions that they decided        specifically within that framework.                MR. CARVIN: A lot of cases cite cases, but           the question is ­­               JUSTICE KAGAN: It's not a cite. It's a ­­            this is the way we look at mandatory fee cases.                      MR. CARVIN: Again, I must respectfully        disagree. They do have that in common at that level of            generality, but there's a key distinction, as ­­ as          Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review Harris, itself, pointed out, between giving money to a         bar association, and giving money to a union.                     The key thing is that the bar association is         a nonspeech restriction. It's like what the Court said          in the Glickman commercial speech context. The initial         association has nothing to do with speech. There, it          was regulating lawyers, not advocating on behalf of        lawyers.                         And if those ­­   JUSTICE KAGAN: Bar associations do things       all the time that lawyers disagree with. They engage in           certain kinds of litigation and not other kinds of         litigation. They take public policy positions on        certain issues and not other issues.                    I mean, I ­­ I think it would be impossible           to make a distinction along that score.                    MR. CARVIN: Keller struck down those kinds        of activities by bar associations, taking positions on        Federal jurisdiction, taking position on gun control.       It said they could only spend money ­­                   JUSTICE KAGAN: Do you think bar       associations do, now, nothing that ­­ that ­­ that         members of the bar could disagree with and find hostile          to their own views?                MR. CARVIN: If they do it, and if it's not           Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review germane to lawyer ethics or service, then, by        definition, it's a violation of Keller. So I sure hope             the bars are not violating the clear pronouncements of         this Court.              The ­­ Keller only upheld expenditures that       are a necessary incident to their principle role of          regulating lawyer ethics and legal behavior. All of the          other things that were law­related were struck down in         Keller. So that is not ­­                              JUSTICE KENNEDY: Any jeopardy, if not ­­       JUSTICE SCALIA: I think that we're talking         about two kinds of bar associations. I mean, voluntary           bar ­­                         MR. CARVIN: Oh ­­    JUSTICE SCALIA: ­­ associations get into a        lot of those other things.                 You're ­­ you're just saying that those bar        associations that you're compelled to join as a        condition of your practice do not get into those things.                      MR. CARVIN: Oh, absolutely. If ­­ if they          required me to join the ABA, I would have an absolute            First Amendment right not to do that, because virtually         every word out of their mouth I disagree with.                      JUSTICE KENNEDY: Mr. Carvin ­­ Mr. ­­       Mr. Carvin, I see ­­ I see your ­­ I ­­ I ­­ I see                    Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review your ­­ your time is running.                  Could you address briefly the opt­in/opt­out      requirement, an issue which, I take it, is in the case,            regardless of ­­ of ­­ of the ­­ the way we rule on the              issue we've been discussing?                MR. CARVIN: It ­­ it certainly is, Your         Honor. And that's because the only ­­ it will only           affect the amount that you need to opt in or opt out on.                         And my short answer ­­ and I am running          out of time ­­ is, if this regime is upheld, that means            tomorrow the State of California could say every public         employee contributes percent to the governor's        reelection campaign unless they affirmatively opt out of        doing so.              No one thinks, realistically, that's a      voluntary decision to give money. There's only one         purpose behind that kind of requirement, which is to         inflate the governor's political war chest, just like        the only purpose behind this is to, through inadvertence         and neglect, inflate the union's war chest by people who          really have not made a voluntary decision to do so.                       Unless there are further questions, I'd like       to reserve the remainder of my time.                   Carvin. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, Mr.       Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review             General DuMont.              ORAL ARGUMENT OF EDWARD C. DUMONT          ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT ATTORNEY GENERAL OF                               CALIFORNIA             MR. DUMONT: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it         please the Court:               California understands the First Amendment     interests that are involved in this case.                   But the State also has critical interests in        being free to manage the public workplace, much like a          private employer, unless we are improperly leveraging       the employment role to coerce or suppress citizens'        speech.             So let me try to briefly address why I         think, if we are going to have collective bargaining in          the public sector, mandatory agency fees can serve        important State interests without unduly burdening      citizens' speech.              JUSTICE ALITO: Before you get ­­                  MR. DUMONT: If ­­                JUSTICE ALITO: Before you get into that,        could I just ask you a preliminary question that came up             earlier in the argument?                Do you think that the California Teachers       Association is an agency of the State of California?         Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review             MR. DUMONT: No. I think a ­­ a ­­ a union                 that becomes an exclusive representative, under the       Perry case, has an official place in the functioning of          the school district. But it is not ­­ it does not            become an organ of the State.                  And that's actually a very important point.        Precisely because of the company union concern, what's        delicate about this, from the State's point of view, is          that we want ­­ if we're going to have collective          bargaining, we need to have a system where there's one           representative that we can deal with, and that        representative has to be both a good partner for us,           from our point of view, but also perceived by the          employees as representing their interests, which is       why ­­                         CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But it's not ­­       MR. DUMONT: ­­ we can't take it over.                     Excuse me.              Finish.             CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: No. Go ahead.        MR. DUMONT: Well, which is why it's very         important that we not fund it directly, and that we          not be perceived as controlling the speech of that         representative.             CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: It's ­­ it's hard to         Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review visualize this in a pure employer­employee relationship,        when the collective bargaining agreement, itself, has to        be submitted for public review and public comment.        That ­­ that suggests that you're doing more than simply          regulating the employment relationship.                MR. DUMONT: Well, the public employment       context is certainly different from the private context,        and that's one of the important ways. We don't contest           that.             But I think the question is, before you get          to the final legislative approval or ­­ or board         approval stage, what kind of system can we have,         legitimately, that will be a workable system, both for          our employees who overwhelmingly have shown they want        collective bargaining, and for the local managers,       the ­­ the actual managers of local governments, of         school districts, or of State agencies who need to have          the practical problem of ­­ of reaching an agreement         that will govern ­­               CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: If your ­­                  MR. DUMONT: ­­ their workplace for a period          of time.              CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: If your employees       have shown overwhelmingly that they want collective       bargaining, then it seems to me the free­rider concern         Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review that's been raised is ­­ is really insignificant.                    MR. DUMONT: With respect, I disagree with         that. Because many people can want something in the          sense they view it as very advantageous to themselves,         but if they are given a choice, they would prefer to            have it for free, rather than to pay for it.                                  This is a classic collective action problem.        So when we ­­ so from the employer's point         of view, when we're going to have collective bargaining,         we want one union to deal with. We want that union to             deal with all employees. And so we require it to           represent all employees fairly, whether they supported       the union or not. They might have supported the rival           unions. They might be in favor of unionism, but they           supported a different one. But once the majority has           said this is our representative, then that is going to          represent all employees.               And it's important then, from the employer's       point of view, that that representative be adequately        funded and stably funded, so that they can work with us           or work with the employer to reach actual progress.                     JUSTICE KENNEDY: But it's ­­ it's almost        axiomatic. When you are dealing with a governmental          agency, many critical points are matters of public        concern. And is it not true that many teachers are ­­           Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review strongly, strongly disagree with the union position on        teacher tenure, on merit pay, on merit promotion, on         classroom size?               And you ­­ the term is free rider. The         union basically is making these teachers compelled       riders for issues on which they strongly disagree.                    Many teachers think that they are devoted to        the future of America, to the future of our young          people, and that the union is equally devoted to that          but that the union is absolutely wrong in some of its           positions. And agency fees require, as I understand          it ­­ correct me if I'm wrong ­­ agency fees require           that employees and teachers who disagree with those        positions must nevertheless subsidize the union on those        very points.              MR. DUMONT: And let me ­­ what I'd like to           do is to separate out the important public policy         issues, which we do not deny cross­cut between the         public's fear and the ­­ the realm of citizens' speech          and the ­­ the isolated collective bargaining realm.        They ­­ they do cross­cut, but that ­­ that does not           mean that the two spheres are the same.                    So in the collective bargaining context,      what the employer needs is to get one agreement with one           group of employees, which we do by having one union.          Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review It's a democratic process. The employees get to pick           that union. And because it's a democratic process,          almost ­­ it's almost guaranteed that not everyone will         agree with all the positions that are taken by the union           that represents the majority of employees.                  From the employer's point of view, we need        to get a contract, is to have one representative that           can speak with one voice for all those disparate people.                      Now, I understand that you'll be speaking        on ­­ on delicate issues. And the important point here           is that outside the context of getting a contract, we do            not try to suppress at all the wide or enriched variety           of viewpoints that employees may have as citizens. And          they can express them in the legislative realm. They          can express them at the workplace, just not in the          bargaining room.              JUSTICE KENNEDY: Do union ­­ do unions have         public relations programs of ­­ or newspaper articles,        media programs to talk about things like merit pay,         protecting underperforming teachers and so forth? Do        the unions actually make those arguments, and aren't        those chargeable expenses?               MR. DUMONT: The union is engaged in a         variety of speech. Some of it is chargeable and some of            it is not.   Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review             JUSTICE KENNEDY: Some of the ones I've        mentioned are chargeable?               MR. DUMONT: I believe under current law         they are. And if there's a need to adjust the current             law because the Court feels that some of those things          are more in the political or legislative sphere than         they are in the ­­ the collective bargaining sphere per          se, that is a ­­ a more of a Lehnert question than an                Abood question.                                                  It does not ­­   JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, if it ­­      MR. DUMONT: ­­ require ­­ it would not ­­         JUSTICE SCALIA: The problem is that       everything that is collectively bargained with the       government is within the political sphere, almost by        definition. Should the government pay higher wages or         lesser wages? Should it promote teachers on the basis          of seniority or on the basis of ­­ all of those           questions are necessarily political questions.     That's ­­ that's the major argument made by the other          side.             MR. DUMONT: And Your Honor, I don't         disagree with that. But it does not change the fact           that as a government, we have two things that we're           doing; one is trying to run a workplace, another is           Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review trying to run a government in which the debate must be            wide open, and we would not dream of being able to           impose ­­             CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What is ­­ you said         you agree with that. You agree with that everything          they're negotiating over is a public policy question?                                             MR. DUMONT: No. I don't agree that ­­          CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Why?     MR. DUMONT: ­­ every issue is a public          policy question, but I don't want to dispute the fact           that many ­­ that there are deep public policy         implications to many of the topics and to the general          tenor of public employee bargaining.                             Many of the public ­­    CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: If you disagree with        that, what is ­­ what is your best example of something           that is negotiated over in a collective bargaining         agreement with a public employer that does not present a           public policy question?               MR. DUMONT: Mileage reimbursement rates or       how you're going to have public safety.                   CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: It's all money.       That's money. That's how much money is going to have to            be paid to the teachers. If you give more mileage           expenses, that costs more money. And the amount of          Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review money that's going to be allocated to public education         as opposed to public housing, welfare benefits, that's        always a public policy issue.                  MR. DUMONT: Which is why I would say I           would not try to draw the line by saying that some part            of this speech is not a matter of public concern or            whatever term you want to use.                  What I would say is that they ­­ when we're           trying to run the public workplace, we need to have some           flexibility because for ­­ as employers, we're trying to         reach workable agreements to govern particular      workplaces for particular periods of time. And that         involves compromise, and it involves reaching some       decisions on some of these issues. And many of them are            controversial, but we need to have concrete decisions        with one group of employees represented by one union to          do that.              JUSTICE ALITO: Where does the ­­ where does         the State of California think the line should be drawn?          A provision of California law ­­ this is Section (b)          of the ­­ of the California Government Code ­­ says that           agency fees may be used for, quote, "the cost of          lobbying activities designed to secure advantages in       wages, hours, and other conditions of employment, in        addition to those secured through meeting and       Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review negotiating with the employer."                            Is that constitutional?   MR. DUMONT: I don't know the answer to that           question. I don't think it's the question presented          here. It's not what the union's here ­­ it's not the            position that they have taken in this litigation. And          if there is a need to adjust that line, which there            might be, that would be a question about where to draw            the fundamental line that Abood draws. But the question          here is whether that line ­­                 JUSTICE ALITO: Well, one of the questions        is whether the ­­ whether Abood is workable. So I do             think it's relevant to know whether you think that is on           one side of the line or the other.                    MR. DUMONT: I think there are arguments         about why that kind of thing could be considered germane          to bargaining. But what is most important to the State           here would not be preserving that line. I don't want to             concede it, but that is not the fundamental point here.          What is fundamental is that we need to be able to run            our workplaces, and that involves prescinding somewhat       from the ­­ from the broad debates about public policy,          which will continue to go on, but getting particular         contracts.             CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Is there ­­      Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review             MR. DUMONT: And the ­­ the particular        speech restrictions, if I might, just in ­­ excuse me.           I'm sorry.              CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Is ­­ is there        any ­­ is there any legal argument or factual basis on           which the State of California disagrees with the        position of the union?                aspect of ­­              MR. DUMONT: I'm sorry. Any ­­ any         CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, we have ­­ I'm         trying to sort out. We have, as you know, three           Respondents here, and I'm trying to sort out the         different position.              Is there anything ­­ in ­­ any way in which          your presentation disagrees with the union's      presentation in its ­­ in its brief?                   MR. DUMONT: I don't think there's        necessarily any fundamental disagreement. I think we         would emphasize that our interests here are not ­­ are          primarily interests of employees in coming to practical        accommodations here.              There was a long history in California in         the 's and s of labor unrest. It led to a            commission that ­­ that issued a ­­ a report that was             very comprehensive and addressed this issue, among       Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review others. This issue of agency fees was part of the           debate that went into the legislative decision in the         early 's to adopt this ­­ this system, and we think           that was a legitimate legislative decision.                   JUSTICE SCALIA: General DuMont, you ­­ you        are arguing that ­­ and I sympathize with ­­ with the            need of the State to have an efficient system for          dealing with its employees, and I can agree that dealing           with just one union makes everybody's life easier.                    Why do you think that the union would not         survive without these ­­ these fees charged to        nonmembers of the union? Federal employee unions do ­­         do not charge agency fees to nonmembers, and they seem          to survive; indeed, they prosper. Why ­­ why is          California different?              MR. DUMONT: The Federal situation is       different. They have very different scope of        bargaining. I wouldn't say that it's been established          that they prosper. They have about a percent           membership rate.                          And from ­­  JUSTICE GINSBURG: As opposed to ­­ what is         the membership rate in ­­ in the California teachers         unions? How ­­ how many are members of the union?                       MR. DUMONT: Actual membership? I'm afraid        Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review I don't know that. Mr. Frederick may ­­ may know that.                        JUSTICE GINSBURG: Because you ­­ you've       pointed out the membership is low in the Federal sector.          But there is no bargaining about pay, right?                    MR. DUMONT: There is no bargaining about        pay; that's correct.               JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: General, there was no       fact­finding below on this assumption, factual      assumption of whether ­­               at all.              MR. DUMONT: There has been no fact­finding        JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: No factual development.      So there's a presumption in the question posed which is           that it can survive, but we don't know that factually.                      MR. DUMONT: We don't know that factually.        The State would prefer not to take that risk, and I           don't think the Constitution requires us ­­                  JUSTICE SCALIA: You're the one making the        argument. It isn't ­­ it isn't the job of the opponents            to show that it ­­ you know, that it will survive.           You're the one that's saying we need to do this because           otherwise it won't survive. It seems to me the burden           on ­­ is on you to suggest why that's so.                      MR. DUMONT: With respect, Your Honor, I        don't think ­­  Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review JUSTICE KENNEDY: You have a compelling        MR. DUMONT: With respect, Your Honor, I                    interest.             don't believe that what we need to show is that the           union would not survive without this. From our point of           view, the question is are we using a technique that the            private sector uses widely that is reasonable from the         point of view of the employer and that doesn't impose an           undue burden.              And let just me say for just a moment about           the burden that's involved here, because I don't want to           minimize it, but let's remember that there is no         personal attribution of this speech here to any        individual employee. There is no restriction on any         individual employee's speech as a citizen, either in the          workplace or out of the workplace. All this speech is           workplace­related, and if it's not, then that's a matter          of ­­             JUSTICE KENNEDY: It's odd to say that if X          is required to pay $ for someone to espouse a belief            that he doesn't share, that he is now free to go out            and ­­ and argue against it. That means he has to spend             another $ so that it balances out? That makes no           sense.             MR. DUMONT: See, what I would say here          Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review is ­­ to me, Your Honor, this case is very much like            Southworth, because what we have here is something where         it is important to the State to have a system in which             we are not the speaker, because that would defeat the          purpose of the system. The same way the point in           Southworth was to have students speak ­­                  JUSTICE KENNEDY: The whole idea of       Southworth was a public forum.                  Are you saying that the whole purpose of        agency fees is to have an open public forum?                     MR. DUMONT: No. I'm saying it's to have a           bargaining forum, but that it is legitimate when we have          compelled ­­ compelled association to have that       bargaining forum. It is also legitimate to have user          fees that fund it.                CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, General.                   Mr. Frederick.                        ORAL ARGUMENT OF DAVID C. FREDERICK      ON BEHALF OF THE UNION RESPONDENTS                  MR. FREDERICK: Thank you, Mr. Chief       Justice, and may it please the Court:                   Abood correctly held that States may      reasonably insist that nonmembers pay their share of        costs for the services provided by a union to the           government and to all employees as their exclusive        Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review representative. Overruling Abood now would      substantially disrupt established First Amendment     doctrine and labor management systems in nearly half the         country.             Let me talk about what a collective        bargaining is, and how the agreement is struck, and how          it evolves over time. Because it's not simply one          contract where there might be a severability provision,         but it is really system of agreements that are         established over time, and a body of relationships that          build up.              And if you look at the Joint Appendix, there         are several examples of collective bargaining      agreements. They are very long, detailed agreements        that include a wide range of services that are          negotiated between the union and the government. And         some of these are monetary. Many of these are          hot­button issues, to be sure, Justice Kennedy, but many         of them are also mundane issues about health and welfare          benefits, what times teachers need to show up, how long          their lunch break can be without having to perform a          duty, what the policies are for transferring teachers        between and among school districts, and these are all         basic services that require research, legal      representation, conferring and consulting, communicating     Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review with members, trying to ascertain what the positions of         all members of the workforce are before the union         presents a ­­ a policy ­­                   JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, I suppose, if that's         so convincing, the union can convince teachers to join         the union.              MR. FREDERICK: Well ­­ and, in fact, in         California, the overwhelming majority of the teachers       are in the union, and it's only a small percentage that            have opted not to.                But I would go further, Justice Kennedy, in         saying that what we are talking about here are a range            of services that they're providing. We're talking about         a service fee for the State law that provides for the           exclusive representative to be the union when that is         voted for by a majority of the workers.                     And here, this Court's cases have      distinguished between citizens' speech, where the very       teacher who might disagree with the union's position is         free to go and speak publicly about that position, and          employment speech, where this Court's cases have been        extraordinarily deferential to the government in      upholding restrictions on what speech employees may       make.             JUSTICE KENNEDY: But ­­ but ­­ but        Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review philosophically, if you use Pickering in this case,        you're committing error of composition. You're       comparing a whole group of persons who have their views           coerced or compelled against one person that ­­ that ­­         Pickering is just inapplicable on that ­­ on that         ground.             MR. FREDERICK: Well, Justice Kennedy, I       think that it is fair to suppose that the government, in           deciding whether it's going to establish a relationship         with its workers and were to get input, is necessarily          going to be dealt with a cacophony of views unless it            comes up with a reasonable system of management to get           those views collected and have them represented by an         exclusive representative. And that is the basic        trade­off that Abood recognized.                And I would note that because different        States have chosen, based on their history, their        culture, their experiences with the labor management       system in the private sector, to come up with different          results.             And here, I would say that Wisconsin and         Michigan, which recently adopted alterations to their       public management sector, established this point.      Because on the one hand, the legislature in Wisconsin         decided we're going to do away with public sector agency          Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review fees for school teachers and for government workers, but         we're going to keep it for public safety officers,         police officers, firefighters, because we determined      there is a legislative interest in having agency fees.                      Why? The firefighters brief in this case        explains that many States don't have safety regulations        for firefighters. And so a lot of these regulations end            up coming through the collective bargaining process,       where firefighters work out negotiated rules to       establish what is a safe way to fight a fire.                        CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: And all of that        would still survive if the Petitioners prevail, unless        your basic argument that if you do away with agency's ­­          agency fees, the unions are going to collapse and not be           in a position to negotiate those safety requirements.                     MR. FREDERICK: Chief Justice, the necessity       standard has never been the standard when the government         is operating as employer or proprietor. It has always          been a case that you would judge the agency ­­ the            government's decision on the basis of what is        appropriate or reasonable.               And if you look at it from that standard,         what the firefighters are saying here is that it's         actually essential to have agency fees, because they are         using those fees to benefit all of the workers in the ­­           Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review in the unit through getting additional equipment that        the county may not be able to afford, additional         training so what when they're called upon to fight a          fire ­­             CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I'm sorry. They're        getting additional equipment that the county may not be         able to afford?               MR. FREDERICK: That's right. The union        members and the nonmembers of the union in the ­­ in the            unit are putting their money together through the agency         fee process so that the union is supplying ­­                    JUSTICE BREYER: There's something other      than that. That would be the same as Justice Scalia's           question which raised an issue, and we heard it before.          Your ­­ your ­­ your last colleague mentioned this.                     California needs this rule that it has,       because it wants, on the other side of the bargaining          table, a coherent group of people to negotiate for the           workers on wages, hours, working conditions, et cetera.                    Now, the Chief Justice said, I can        understand that argument if the alternative is the union         is destroyed, because then there's nobody. And you say          that that argument's a good argument because they're         going to buy fire trucks and some other things.                     Is there anything else that backs up that        Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review MR. FREDERICK: Sure.    JUSTICE BREYER: I think it's important, and         argument?                         I'd like you to explain it.                  MR. FREDERICK: Yes. The flip side is that          the State briefs and the City briefs that have been          submitted in this Court note what happened when the         agency fee process didn't occur.                 In New York City, for example, there were        strikes that were occurring all of the time until an          agency fee ­­ fee system was put into place, and that           enabled the City to better deliver transit services,        school services, and the like.                             So you have both the positive story by ­­        JUSTICE SCALIA: I ­­ I don't understand          that. I just absolutely don't understand it. Why ­­           why would agency fees enable the city to do things that           it couldn't do before?                MR. FREDERICK: Because it enables all of        the workers to know they are making a shared sacrifice           for the purpose of working together to establish a         coherent position with their employer. That's ­­                   JUSTICE SCALIA: You say that, but I ­­ it           doesn't mean anything to me.                 MR. FREDERICK: I understand ­­      Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review             JUSTICE SCALIA: You have a union        bargaining, and the city says no. And you're saying          that if there are enforced fees to the union, the city           will say yes?                            JUSTICE SCALIA: I ­­ I see no connection           MR. FREDERICK: No. What I'm ­­      whatever between ­­                          MR. FREDERICK: Well ­­    JUSTICE SCALIA: ­­ what the city is willing         to ­­ to give in collective bargaining and whether you          have agency fees.               MR. FREDERICK: Justice Scalia, all I can         report on in the absence of a factual record ­­ because            this was basically brought as a facial challenge ­­ is           what is in the amicus briefs. In cities, States, school           districts, hospitals that are management­side have      supported agency fees because they find it to be a more            workable system by having ­­                CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, I ­­                   MR. FREDERICK: ­­ employees buy into the        policies that are being established ­­                             CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I ­­      MR. FREDERICK: ­­ through the collective       bargaining process.              CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: It sounds to me like         Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review your argument cuts exactly the opposite way.                   The ­­ the problem that's before us is        whether or not individuals can be compelled to support         political views that they disagree with. And you're         saying, well, the reason they should be able to, because          if they do, then those political views are going to          prevail. They are opposed to particular funding.        That's why they don't want to join the ­­ that's why           they don't want to join the union, because the union is           pushing that. But you say you should force them because           then the union will prevail, contrary to the objecting         employee's views.              MR. FREDERICK: No. What I'm saying, Mr.         Chief Justice, is the States can make rational and         reasonable judgments that for their workability of a        system, they can have an agency­fee process.                   Abood recognized the very Federalism     interests that are at stake here, where different States         have different experiences, and this is an opportunity        for the States to draw upon those distinctive        experiences in coming up with a system that's fair for           everyone.             JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Frederick, you didn't       ask for this judgment. It was thrust on you, this           judgment on the pleadings. You did say you wanted to           Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review make a record in the district court. If you had had             that opportunity to develop a record, what would you          have put in it?                MR. FREDERICK: Well, the first thing I        would have put in, it would have been a response to            Justice Kennedy's question, which is that Ms. Friedrichs        has said publicly she's happy with the positions the         union is taking on pay. It would be anomalous to           suppose that we're going to decide a case of this kind            of constitutional import with a lead plaintiff who has          said publicly she agrees with the union's positions on         pay.             CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Can you ­­ can        you ­­ do you think you can find one employee who           doesn't?             MR. FREDERICK: No. I think that that's the           point, Mr. ­­                          CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You don't think.       MR. FREDERICK: No. I think that there are           undoubtedly ­­ there are undoubtedly issues in a        hundred­page collective bargaining agreement in which      reasonable people can say, we don't like where the         bargain got struck.               But the point here is government workability       and assessing the reasonableness of the government's       Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review position.             JUSTICE BREYER: Do you think you can ­­ I          mean, obviously one thing that's come up is ­­ I know            that you're right on this ­­ the Thaler law was a mess.             It was strike after strike. But what you would like to            show is that that approach, compared to the assessment         of wage­, hour­, and working­condition­related fees,      that the latter makes an improvement in the coherence of          the union's position, and therefore there will be of         your strikes.              That's something like that is what you're       arguing, and I would guess that people would have          written articles about that now, and ­­ and ­­ if that's           so.             MR. FREDERICK: Well, Justice Breyer, I       guess the question is, are you going to decide a case of             this constitutional significance on the basis of a        hypothesis based on ­­               JUSTICE BREYER: All right. My argument to         you was, do you want to put information in the record on            that point?              MR. FREDERICK: I think that is a one of            many points that a record would be helpful, but let me            just say that we're talking here ­­                  JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Mr. Fredericks, this is       Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review JUSTICE KENNEDY: I ­­ I suppose ­­         JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: ­­ this is the ­­       JUSTICE KENNEDY: Mr. Fredericks, we ­­ I        the ­­                                     suppose, Mr. Fredericks, we could assume that a State is           always benefitted and ­­ and is more efficient if it can           suppress speech.              MR. FREDERICK: And your decision in       Garcetti, Justice Kennedy, allowed for the suppression       of the speech by the prosecutor who objected ­­                    JUSTICE KENNEDY: That was in the workplace.        It doesn't apply to merit pay. It didn't apply to the            protection of underperforming teachers. It ­­ it        didn't ­­ it didn't apply to classroom size. It didn't           apply to educational objectives.                MR. FREDERICK: Those are all classic       workplace situations.                          workplace ­­                                                 JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Can you ­­ can you ­­        MR. FREDERICK: You are talking about       CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Justice ­­     MR. FREDERICK: ­­ speech ­­     CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Justice Sotomayor.      JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Can we go back to this         issue of burden?   Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review             There are a lot of assumptions underlying        your adversary's position, whole set of questions: Can         the union survive?                           Hold on. I have about ten of them.          Is it necessary? And your adversary says        you ­­ or one of my colleagues has said you bear the            burden.             But this is an overturning of a decision on          stare decisis, isn't it?                point ­­             MR. FREDERICK: That's correct. And the        JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: And what burden do you        have, or is it your adversary who has to show no           reliance interests that the foundation is wrong,       et cetera?              MR. FREDERICK: We submit that, given the        four­decade history, they have the burden to demonstrate        that the way the system has worked would be unworkable          if it were to be ­­ if it were to be sustained.                        And ­­ and Justice Kennedy, back to your        point. I appreciate that a prosecutor's memo might be            viewed in your eyes as workplace speech whereas the         teachers' position about what size the classroom might        be may not seem the same way as workplace speech. But            from of government's perspective, I think you have to          Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review assess that on the basis of the reasonableness of the          system that the government ­­                            JUSTICE ALITO: Well, no, Mr. Frederick ­­       JUSTICE KENNEDY: You're again talking about       a whole class of persons whose speech has been silenced,          not just one person.                                        MR. FREDERICK: Well ­­    JUSTICE KENNEDY: Big difference.     MR. FREDERICK: ­­ their speech isn't       silenced. They are paying a service fee so that a ­­             the exclusive representative can negotiate their health       and welfare benefits, their mileage reimbursement, a       whole set of things that ­­ voluntary teacher transfer         policy, the questions about when teachers have to show         up, how long their duty breaks ­­ duty­free breaks are          during the course of the day.                  These are all relatively mundane points.      I ­­ I think you would agree with me. And there's             nothing in the agency fee process that suppresses the         ability of teachers to speak out publicly, and even         within the process because the law itself allows for         merit pay to be a subject of bargaining if a minority of              the teachers can convince the majority that this is a          position that the teachers ought to take.                   CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Mr. Frederick, your       Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review ­­ your ­­ I think you would at least agree we're            dealing with some sensitive and important constitutional       issues. What is the ­­ the burden on the union that            counter ­­ weighs against those of simply requiring        opt­in as opposed to opt­out? At least then you ­­          you ensure that people are making a conscious decision          about supporting the union before they're compelled to        do that.              MR. FREDERICK: On the second question       presented, we think that the decision ought to be         affirmed because Abood correctly recognized that here,       where there was basically no burden on the person who          wanted to opt out, that that was in itself a core            question.             CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: And what you're       saying, it's easy for the person to check a box saying I             opt out. It's also easy to check a box saying opt in.                          MR. FREDERICK: It's administratively ­­     actually, in a system where the overwhelming majority ­­         and we're talking about more than percent of the          people are paying the fees, even those that are         nonchargeable fees under the Lehnert line to support        political activities, it's administratively much easier      to count a smaller number.                  And the question is whether the suppression       Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review of their constitutional rights is such as to rise to the           level of compulsion. Here we would submit that where          there's a one­page checkbox, they can send it in, they           are able ­­ and every Petitioner on the other side has           successfully opted out of paying those ­­ that the         burden is on them to show that the government has made           an unreasonable choice as to the kind of administrative         scheme that's been established.                JUSTICE ALITO: Well, opt­in is ­­ opt­out        is not always as easy as you ­­ as you say. In one of               our prior cases, I think that anybody who wanted to opt            out had to send a certified letter within a certain            period of time.               Now, suppose somebody says I don't want to         pay this year. I don't want to ­­ I ­­ I never want to                  pay. What is the justification for saying that person          has to opt out every single year?                   MR. FREDERICK: Well, let me just say that         the perpetual opt out is not an issue in this case. And             it ­­ had it been raised, it very well might be an            acceptable way to do, to say I want to opt out until             further notice. That's not been presented or argued         here.             If it were to be argued, there are reasons         why that might be appropriate. But here, having an          Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review annual process follows this Court's Hudson decision       where the union is required on an annual basis to          provide notice of the activities that are chargeable and         not chargeable. So from the perspective of getting         notice to the potential objecting member, it allows more         flexibility.                                     CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.       MR. FREDERICK: Thank you.     CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: General Verrilli.            ORAL ARGUMENT OF GEN. DONALD B. VERRILLI, JR.                FOR THE UNITED STATES, AS AMICUS CURIAE,                      SUPPORTING THE RESPONDENTS               GENERAL VERRILLI: Mr. Chief Justice, and       may it please the Court:                 Let me begin by summarizing the three       fundamental reasons why Abood should be reaffirmed.                   First, in the four decades that Abood has        been the law, this Court's jurisprudence in the area         of ­­ of employment relations, First Amendment       jurisprudence in the area of employment relations has        converged with Abood in a way that fortifies its          foundations and does not erode them, because what those         cases have recognized is when the government is acting         as employer managing the workforce, it should receive        reasonableness review in order to give it the latitude         Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review comparable to that of a private employer to manage its           workforce, and not exacting scrutiny that applies when        government is a sovereign regulating the citizens.                    Second, in those four decades, more than        States have enacted and enforced laws that allow the         public employers in those States to have the same         latitude that Congress gave private employers to decide,        based on workplace needs and local conditions, whether        agency fee requirements will help them achieve the        purposes for which they ­­ for which they adopt         collective bargaining.              And the reliance goes far deeper than those         State laws and the thousands of contracts affecting         millions of people that are based on those laws. In           those States, the agency fee requirement has worked its         way, woven its way into the fabric of the relation          between workers and management and the public's fear.                    In those States, the unions have taken on        such obligations as training and the like, funded by         agency fees that make the workplace more effective for         management, as well as more effective for employees.                    And if you were to take those away, you're         going to disrupt those long­term relationships that have        developed over time, and the expectations that have        developed over time, and you're going to replace them         Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review with a different kind of a situation in which the union             is going to have a different set of incentives, trying           to ­­ trying to ensure that the maximum number of people           are willing to pay union fees.                  And the way that the unions are likely to         try to do that is through trying to convince employees          that you ­­ that they need the union because otherwise          management is going to do them harm. And I do think             that that's a significant problem here for public         employer perspective now, in a time of budgetary         constraints, when difficult decisions have to be made        and cuts have to be made.                  It's of great benefit to the employer, to        the government as employer, to have the union        participate in those judgments so that they are        perceived as fair as the ­­ by the workforce, and so           that the union then, in effect, vouches for management         with the workforce and prevents disruption. So I do           think the reliance interests go very deep here.                    And then the third point I would make is          that we're talking about overruling a precedent of          years' standing. There need to be ­­ needs to be a            showing of changed circumstances, it seems to me.                    Now, with respect to the question of ­­ of         the role that agency fee ­­ the role that agency fees           Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review play in the process, I think it is quite important, and            this goes to a point you raised, Justice Scalia. Abood            never said, and no case since Abood has ever said, that           agency fees are necessary to union survival. Abood         couldn't have said that, because when Abood ruled as it          did, Taft­Hartley had been on the books for decades.         And so with respect to the private sector, what Congress          had said with respect to the private sector is that          employers get to choose. Employees get to decide         whether the agency fee will help them achieve their         workplace goals. And what the Court said in Abood was           that public employers ought to have the same kind of          choice to respond to workplace needs and local        conditions that prior employee ­­                CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: The ­­ the fact that         Abood has been around for years, does it affect your           point at all that the main justification for Abood         that's being advanced today is one that Abood did not          adopt?                         GENERAL VERRILLI: I ­­     CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Pickering     justification, that's what I hear most prominently in         the presentations, and yet Abood did not even cite         Pickering.             GENERAL VERRILLI: I ­­ I respectfully         Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review disagree with that as a technical matter. I think Abood             did cite Pickering. And if one looks at the briefs in            Abood, the parties on both sides were arguing Pickering.                                 But beyond that, I think ­­      CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: In ­­ in ­­ in terms          of that, but in terms of the substantive analysis, it          can't really seriously be called a Pickering case.                     GENERAL VERRILLI: No. But I think it          shares ­­ what I said at the outset, Mr. Chief Justice,            is I think the key point: That this Court's First            Amendment law in the public employment context has, over         time, converged with Abood, in that the cases generally         have recognized that when government is acting as        employer, it has interests that, if government were        acting as sovereign regulating the citizenry, wouldn't       suffice to justify conditions on speech.                  JUSTICE ALITO: Well, Pickering is ­­      Pickering is the heart of your argument, so I ­­ I do              want to ask you a couple of questions about it.                       Is it different from the situation here in        several respects? One was brought out. Pickering ­­         the Pickering cases involve the termination or the        discipline of a public employee after ­­ a single           employee after the employee has made a statement that ­­          to which the employer objects. This is a prospective           Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review rule that applies to a huge category of employees.                      The second is whether restrictions on what       employees can say are the same as compelling an employee          to make a statement or subsidizing a statement.                                  latter ­­                         GENERAL VERRILLI: Let me take ­­      JUSTICE ALITO: So as to the ­­ as to the           GENERAL VERRILLI: Yeah.    JUSTICE ALITO: ­­ there are circumstances,       are there not, in which the Department of Justice could          terminate or take an adverse employment action against a         DOJ employee for something that that employee says as a          citizen on a question of public concern. That could be            done, could it not?                            GENERAL VERRILLI: Yes.    JUSTICE ALITO: Are there any circumstances       in which the Department of Justice could compel an         employee to make a statement ­­                                          GENERAL VERRILLI: I can't ­­      JUSTICE ALITO: ­­ as a ­­       GENERAL VERRILLI: I ­­ I can't think of           one, specifically.              citizen?             JUSTICE ALITO: ­­ as a ­­ as a private            GENERAL VERRILLI: I can't think of one, but          Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review that goes right to the difference, right to the         difference between government acting as employer,      managing the workplace, and government acting as       sovereign, regulating the citizenry.                In the latter situation, what this Court's       cases would say is that that is not government acting to           manage the workplace; that is government leveraging       its ­­ its control over the employee, acting as         sovereign, affecting that person in his role as citizen,         and that would get exacting scrutiny.                  And that ­­ so that ­­ I think that's the           key. We're not arguing that Abood applies of its own           terms. We're arguing that there's an insight that         underlays Abood, and it underlays Garcetti, and frankly,        it underlays the political affiliation cases as well.                    Because if you look at those, what those        cases all say, contrary to what my friends say, is that           when government can show the political affiliation is a         reasonable requirement for the effective performance of       the job in question, that that affiliation requirement        can be upheld. That, again, is not exacting scrutiny;          it's reasonableness. Every case lines up along that         axis. And so ­­ and I ­­ I think that's the key point                about Pickering.              And if I could, I just want to address a            Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review couple other points.               JUSTICE ALITO: Well, I ­­ when ­­ when ­­          when a union is bargaining about a matter of ­­ of             public concern, you're saying that that's ­­ that is not          the same as commenting on a matter of public concern?                       GENERAL VERRILLI: No. What I'm saying is         that it occurs in the context of the ­­ the collective           bargaining relationship, which is a ­­ which is ­­ it           has to be subject to a different set of constitutional           standards. It has to be; because, think about it.                      With respect to collective bargaining,     there's a specialized channel of communication that the         government sets up. The government controls who can         speak, when the discussion's going to occur, and what         topics can be discussed.                JUSTICE SCALIA: All of that is true.        Nobody ­­ nobody denies that. But the problem is that           it is not the same as a private employer, that what is             bargained for is, in all cases, a matter of public           interest. And that changes the ­­ that changes the          situation in a way that ­­ that may require a change of              the rule. It's one thing to provide it for private           employers. It's another thing to provide it for the          government, where every matter bargained for is a matter          of public interest.   Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review             GENERAL VERRILLI: But I guess what I would           say about that, Justice Scalia, what I read this Court's           cases as saying in the employee speech context, in the          employee petitioning context, in the political      affiliation context, is that you ­­ yes, it's not wholly          free of First Amendment scrutiny. But recognizing the         government's interests as employer and prerogatives as       employer, you apply reasonableness review and not the        exacting scrutiny that applies when government is       regulating as a sovereign regulator.                  JUSTICE BREYER: I guess ­­ isn't it ­­ is           ­­ you may know ­­ the case in which government as           employer is most likely to want to control what the          employee says and where he has the right to do that is            likely to be a case that involves the institution's job,           i.e., the public interest.                GENERAL VERRILLI: Yes. Certainly,      certainly. That's why ­­ that's why I think there was            no doubt in Garcetti that the speech was not a matter of             public concern. And I could have said the same thing in             Borough of Duryea and any number of these courts' other          cases.             That's not the ­­ that's not the distinction        the Court has drawn. The distinction the Court has          drawn is between government acting as employer managing        Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review the workforce, and the government as sovereign       regulating the citizenry.               And I respectfully submit that that ­­ that         that distinction applies with equal force here, and        especially given the stare decisis considerations      that ­­ that ought to govern this Court's decision in          this context that that is more than sufficient to         uphold, to reaffirm Abood. Because as I said, what this            Court's cases have recognized through all the public        employer context is the same principle for which Abood         stands.             JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: General, you seem ­­ and        everybody seems to equate government subsidy with       government speech. Do you think our cases give         government subsidy the same analysis as they give        compelled speech or compelled silence?                 GENERAL VERRILLI: May I answer, Mr. Chief         Justice?             CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Sure.                 GENERAL VERRILLI: What I would say about         that, Justice Sotomayor, is that in this context, the         subsidy goes to the process of contract formation and         contract administration within that collective     bargaining context that I described earlier, that of         necessity, a different First Amendment standard has to         Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review apply to.              Thank you.              CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, General.       Three minutes, Mr. Carvin.               REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF MICHAEL CARVIN                   ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS                             MR. CARVIN: Thank ­­ thank you.       As to the absence of a factual record here,          it's important to point out that we gave them an amended           answer where they could make any allegation they wanted.         And at page of their so­called opposition, it said, to            quote, "The unions do not oppose the entry of a judgment            on the pleadings."               Why is that? Because they certainly ­­ it's         their burden to argue, for example, that agency fees         will lead to the demise of the union. But they didn't            make any such allegation in their answer. They didn't          make any such allegation in response to       Justice Ginsburg's question, and they've got all the        facts and terms of the union's fiscal well­being.        That's because they can't make such an allegation in the          real world.              How do we know that? Twenty­five states        prohibit agency fees. Not one union. Read the amici.           See if you can see one example of the union capitulating           Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review because of that. The federal government doesn't allow         agency fees. And only a third of the members are union             members, and yet, that ­­ that union survives. Whereas          here, we have percent union membership, and        Mr. Frederick said percent of the nonmembers continue         to contribute. So the notion that anything could happen          adversely here simply doesn't square with things.                   The notion that Abood put forth that there's        some Federal policy in favor of agency fees is         completely contrary to the fact. U.S.C. ­­ (b)            allows ­­ excuse me ­­ prohibits agency fees if the          State prohibits. So it allows states to prohibit agency          fees. Conversely, it preempts states that seek to         require agency fees.               So the Federal policy, not only with respect        to their own workforce, but to the respect of the          private workforce, is contrary to agency fees.                   In response to Justice Kennedy's question,      yes. There's a stark difference between single         personnel decisions and group decisions. NTEU, which is         a Pickering case, makes that quite clear. Even in the           Pickering context when there was a general rule with          respect to outside honorarium, the Court made it clear         that the burden of justification is much higher. They          haven't come close to this burden of justification,        Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review because they can't possibly show that agency fees will         lead to the end of the union.                   And contrary to my brethren, that's the only        thing that matters. We're talking about the ­­ the          government's interest as an employer. All they care         about, according to Abood, is having one union instead         of two so they only have to speak to one person. They             don't care about how robust or effective this union is.          Indeed, if anything, they don't want them to be         effective, because nobody wants a strong bargaining        partner that's going to drive up public expenditures        and ­­ and have a ­­                  JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So what do you do with         the law enforcement people who submitted their brief who         said the unions actually do training. They provide         equipment the county can't afford with fees. So         they're ­­ what the ­­ the General has been saying is,           we have to leave it to each State to decide, because           with this kind of agency fee, there are things that          unions can do that we would choose not to do.                                  MR. CARVIN: I am ­­      JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: The unions in California       do teacher training.               MR. CARVIN: Exactly, and they do fire        training. They do safety training. Can you think of           Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review something that's more a matter of public concern, that's          more of an ideological point, that's more important?        And yet they dismiss these as somehow prosaic issues.         They're basic to our democracy, and that's why we have          an absolute right not to subsidize it. No one's arguing           that these ­­              JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Why? Why? If you're         receiving the benefits of it, why? It's ­­ it's your           benefit. You may disagree with that judgment ­­                                MR. CARVIN: Right.    JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: ­­ but ­­ and you ­­ and          you can speak about it ­­                 MR. CARVIN: Because there's ­­                 JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: ­­ but why is it hurting         your First Amendment right if you can speak?                    MR. CARVIN: There's a great ongoing debate         about teacher training class size in education reform        today. The unions have their right to take their side           of that view. What they don't have a view ­­ is a right                to demand that the other side subsidize their views on          these essential questions of ­­ of basic public        importance.             CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.       The case is submitted.                (Whereupon, at : a.m., the case in the        Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review above­titled matter was submitted.)     Alderson Reporting Company A a.m : : : ABA : abandon : ability : : able : : : : : : : :, : : Abood : : : :, : :,,, :,,,, : :, :, : :,,, : :, : : : : : :, : :,, :,,, :, : :, : : :, : : Abood's : : above­entitled : above­titled : absence : : absolute : : absolutely : : : : abstract : abstraction :, Official ­ Subject to Final Review Official ­ Subject to Final Reviewaccept :, acceptable : accepts : accommodation : accommodati... : admission : admittedly : adopt : : : adopted : advanced : advantageous : achieve : advantages : adversary : : :,, :, : :,, :, : : :, :,,, :, : : agency's : agency­fee ago : : :, agree : : : :,, : : : agreed : agreement : :, : : : : agreements : :, : agrees : Ah : ahead : : : al :, : ALITO : :, : : : : : :,,, : : allegation : :,, allocated : allow : : : : allowed : allows : : : :, alterations : alternative : altogether : amended : Amendment :, :, : :, : : : :,, :,,, : : : : : : : : : : : : : : America : American : : amici : amicus : : : : amount : : analysis : : : : annual :, anomalous : answer : : : : : :, answered : anybody : : apart : apologize : APPEARAN... : Appendix : applies : : : : : apply : : : :, : achieving : Act :,, : acting : : : :, :,,, : : adversary's : adverse : : adversely : advocacy : action : : : : activities : : : : : : activity : :, : actors :, acts : actual : : : addition : additional : :, advocate : :,, : advocates : advocating : affect : :,, : : affiliation : :,, : affirmatively : : affirmed : afford :, address : : : : : addressed : adequate : : adequately : adjust : : administration : administrative : administrativ... :, afraid : agencies : agency :, : :, :, : : : :,, :,, : : : : :, : :, : :, : : :, :, : Alderson Reporting Company Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review :, : : assess :, : ban :, bar : : : : basis :, appreciate : approach : appropriate : : approval : : area : : : :, argue : : : assessing : assessment : assessments : associate : : association : :, : : : :,, : : argued :, associations arguing : : : : :, : argument : :,,,, :, : : : :, : : : : : :, : : : : : : argument's : arguments : :, : :, : assume :, : assumes : assuming : : : :,, assumption : : assumptions : Attorney : : : attribution : Austin : :, : authority : : : article : articles : authorization : : axiomatic : axis : : : :,,, :, : :, bargain : : : bargainable :,, :, : : : : : bear : Beck : bedrock : beg : behalf :, : :,, : : : : : : behavior : benefits : : : : bargained : : :, bargaining : :,, : : : : :, belief : believe : : :, : : : : :, : benefit : :, : : : : : : : : :, : : :, : benefitted : : :, : : :, : : :, : : :,, : : : :, : : : best : better : beyond : big : : board : : : : : : : : : body : : : : :,, : brief : : : briefing : briefly : : briefs : : : : : broad : brought : : : budgetary : build : burden : : :, : :, : :, : : :, burdening : buy : : : C C :, :, : : : : cacophony : Cal : :, : : :, : : :, :, : :, : : :, : : : California's : called : : campaign :, books : : California : Borough : bars : bound : based : : box :, : ascertain : aside : : asked : : : : asking : : asks : aspect : aspects : B B : : : back :, : : : backs : balances : balancing : : :, basic : : : : :,, :,, : : : :, basically : : : breaching : break : breaks :, brethren : Breyer :, : : :,, : :,, :, : Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review :, : : : : : charge : citizens : classroom : channel : characterizes citizens' : : : : chargeable : :, : :, :,,, : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : :, : :, charged : charges : chatted : check :, checkbox : chest :, Chief :, : : :,, :, : :,, : :, :, : clients : : : :, close : : :,, : :, closed : :, : Code : : :, coerce : : :, :, : : : : : : :,, : : :,,, :,, : : :,,, :,, :, : : :, :,, : :, :, : : : : : : : :, : : clear : : coerced :, coherence : choice : : coherent : : :, : : : clearly : : : campaigns : candor : capital :, capitulating : : categorical cases : : car :, care :, carried : Carvin : : : :,,, : :, :,,,, : :, : :,, : : :,, :,, :,,, :,,, :,,, :, : :,,, :, :, :,, :, : category : :,, :,,, :,,, :, : :,,, :,,, : :, :, : :,,, :,, :, : : :, :,,, : :, cetera : :,,, :, :, : :, :,, case : : : : :,, : :, :, : : :, : challenge : change : : : changed : changes : cause : certain :, certainly : certified : : : : : :,, :, city :,,, collectively :,, : claim :,, come : : class : : classic : : : : :, :, : : :, : :, : : :, : : : : : comes : : : coming : : : : comment : commenting : commercial : : : commission : committing : common : communicating : communication : company : : comparable : compared : comparing : compel : : : compelled : : : : : : :, : : : :, compelling : : completely : : choose : : chosen : circumstances : : : :, cite : : : : : cities : citizen : : :, : citizenry : : : : coin : collapse : colleague : colleagues : collected : collective :, : : :, : : :, : : :, :, : :, : : : : : :, Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review : : consistency : contributions consistently : : : :, : constantly : control : : : Constitution : : : : controlling constitutional : : : : : : : : : controls : controversial : converged : constrain : constraints : Conversely : :, :, : consulting : contest : context :, :, : : :, : : : : :,, : :,, : continue : : convince : : : courts' : convinced : create : : convincing : core : Corporation creating : critical : : criticism : cross­cut : : : correct : : : : : : correctly : : : : :, : :, debates : :, : decades : : : : : : : : : : : : : :, : : : : : : : : : : decide : decided : : :, : : : : : : : deciding : : :, decision : :, : : : :, : : : : : : : : : : : : : Court's : decisions : : : : : : :, : :, decisis : crystal : culture : curiae : : :, : : :, : : current :, : : currently : deep : cuts : : : : D D : D.C :,,, DAVID : : : day : : : deal : : :, dealing : : :, : dealt : debate : : deeper : defeat : deferential : : : : : definition : : delicate : : deliver : demand : demise : democracy : democratic : : : : : composition : comprehensive : compromise : : : compulsion : : concede : concept : concern : : : : : : : :, : : concerns : : : concludes : concrete : condemned : condition : conditions : : : : : : conferring : conflict : : Congress : : connection : conscious : consequence : considerable : consideration : considerations : : cost : contract :, costs : : : :, : :, : counsel : : contracts : count : : :, counter : : : : : country : : contrary : :,,, : : : : :, : contribute : : : contributes : county :, : couple : : course : : : :, : : court :, : :, : : considered : contribution Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review doing : : education : dollars : DONALD : EDWARD : : demonstrate : : disables : doctrinal : doctrine : : : : : denies : denial : : disagree : denied : : : : : :, : : :,, DOJ : : : : : : : deny : : Department : :, : : : : : : : : door : disagreement depends : deprivation : doubt : described : disagrees : designed : dozens : destroyed : discipline : draw :, detailed : details : determined : develop : discussed : developed : discussing : discussion : discussion's discretion : discriminate : : : : : drawing : development drawn : :, : : :, draws : dream : drive : DuMont : : easily : easy :, : : educational : : effect :, : effective : : : :, efficient : : effort : efforts : : Eighth : either : : eliminated : emphasis : :, : : :, : : : : : : : : : : : : employees' : employer : :,,,, :,, : :,, :,, : : :, : : : : : : : : : : : : :,, :, : : :, :, : : employer's : :, : employer­emp... : employers : :, : :,, : :, : : : :, :, : employment : devoted :, dictate : :, differ : difference : : :, : different : : : : : : :, : : : : :, : :, :, : : : : : differently : : differing : difficult : : : dismiss : disparate : dispute : disrupt : : disruption : dissenting : : dissents :, distinction : : : : : : : : :, : distinctive : distinguish : distinguished : : district : : directly : : : districts : : : : :,,, emphasize : :,, :, : : : :,, :,, : :, :, : :, : :, :, : : : Duryea : duty :, : : employee : :,, :, : : : : : : : : : : :, : :, :, : :,, employee's duty­free : E E : :, earlier : : : early : easier : : : : employees : : : : :, : : : :, : : :, : : enable : : : : : : :, : :, : : :, : enabled : Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review : : establish : : : established : : :, : : : et :, : expectations : expenditures : : expense : expenses : : : experiences famously : far : : : : : favor : : : fear : : federal :, : : ethics :, explain : everybody : explains : everybody's : :, : : :, : :,, explicitly : Federalism express :, expressed : extended : extinguished : :, : eyes : : : : F enables : enact :, : enacted : endangered : enforced : : enforcement : engage : : :, : engaged : : engaging : enriched : ensure :, : : : entire : : entirely : entitled : entity :, entry : equal : equally : : equate : equipment : : : erode : erroneous : : : : erroneously : error : especially : espouse : ESQ :,, : :,, :, essential : : : evidence : evolves : exact : : exacting : :, : exaction : exactly : example : : :, : :, : : : :, examples : excise : exclusive : : :,, : : : : : : : : excuse : : : : : executed : execution : exist : existed : exists : fee : : : : :, : : :, : :, :, : : : feels : fees :, : : : : :, : : : : : : :, : :,, :, : :,,, : :, : : :, : :, : :, : :,,, : :, felony : Ferguson : fight : : final : finances : find : : : : : : fine : : extraordinarily : extremely : : : fabric : facial : fact : : : :, :, : : : : : : fact­finding :, facts : factual : : :, : : factually : : fair : : : fairly : faith : : : fall :, falls : essentially :, : : : : expand : Alderson Reporting Company finger : finish :,,, : : fire : : : : firefighters : :,,, first :, : :, :, :, : : : : : : : : : : : : : :, : : : : fiscal : fits :, flexibility : : flip : focus : : following : follows : force :, : : : : forced : : formation : forth : : fortifies : forum :, :, forward : found : foundation : foundations : founding : four : : four­decade Official ­ Subject to Final Review : Fourteenth : Fourth : :,,, framework : :, Francisco : frankly : Frederick : : : :,, : : : : :,,, :,,, : :, :,, :, : :,, :, : :,, : : : : : Fredericks : :, free : : : : : : : : free­rider : : : frequently : Friedrichs : : : :, : funding : :,, : : : :, : : : : : :, funds : : given :, : : further : : : : : future : : : :, G G : Gant : :, Garcetti : : : GEN : : : general :, : :, : : : : :, : : : :,,, :, : :, : :, : : : generality : generally : : germane : : : getting : gives : giving : : :, Glickman : : go : : : :, : :, : : :,,, : : : :, government's : : : : : : : : goals : goes : : : : going : : : : : governments governmental :, : : : : : :, : : : :,, :, : : : : :, greater : : :, : : governor's :, great : : : hand : hands : happen : :, : : : :,, : gun : :,,, H : : :, : half : : : :,, : : : : : : :, : : : : : : :, harm : :,,,, Harris : : :, : :,, :,, :,, : : :,,, : : happened : happens : happy : hard : : : : government­a... hear : : Hatch : head : health : : heard : heart : : heavy : held : help : : helpful : high : higher : : : friendly : : : friends : :, : frustration : functioning : GINSBURG fund : : :, : : : : fundamental : : :, :, :,, : : : : : :, : Ginsburg's :, : : : give : : funded : : : good : : : : :, : : : gotten :, govern : : : government :, :,, :,, : history :, : : grievance : ground : group : : Hold : : Honor : : : : : : : : : : : grudging : guaranteed : guess :, : : : : :, : : : : : : : : : : : honorarium : hope : Alderson Reporting Company hospitals : host : hostile : hot­button : hour­ : hours : : : housing : Hudgens : : Hudson : huge : : hundred­page : hundreds : : : hurting : hypothesis : hypothetical : : : I i.e : idea : : ideological : : illegal : imagine : impasses : impinges : implications : import : importance : important : : : : :, : : : : : : : : : : : impose : Official ­ Subject to Final Review : : : interest : : Johanns : integrated : join :, Alderson Reporting Company imposes : imposing : : impossible : improperly : : improvement : inadvertence : inapplicable : incentives : incident : incidents : include : includes : including : increase : : indications : individual : : :, individually : individuals : inflate :, influence : information : infringement : inherent :, inhibition : initial : : input : insight : insignificant : insist : instance : institution's :, : : :, : : interests : : :, : : :, : : : : : interpretation : : :, Joint : JR : : : judge : judges : judgment : : : : judgments : : judiciary : invented : involve : : jurisdiction : : involved : jurisprudence : : : involves : : : : involving : isolated : issue : : : : : : : : : : issued : issues : : :, :, : : :, : : : items : J James : January : Jefferson : jeopardy : : job : : : : : : :, Justice : : :, :, :,,,, :,, :, :,,, : : :, : :, : :,, :,,, :,,, : :, :,,, : :, : :, :,, :, : :,, :,,, :,,, :, : :,,, :,,,, :,,, : :,, :, : :,, :, :, : :, :, : : :, :, : :,, :,, :, : : :, : :, :, : :, : : :, :,,, :, : :, : :,, : :, :,,, :,, :,,,, :, : : :, : :, :, : :,,,, :,,, : :, :,,, : : :,, : :, : :, :, :,,, : :, :, : :,, :, : :, : :,, justification : : :, : : :, :, justifications : justified :, justifies : justify : K Kagan : : : :, : : :, : :, :,, :,,, :, : :, : : Kagan's : keep : Keller :,, : :,, Kennedy : : :, : :, : :, : : : : : :, : : :, : : :,,, : :, Kennedy's : : key : : : : :, kind : : : : : : : : : : : : kinds : : :, : know : : : :, : : : : : :,,, : : : : : L labor :,,, : : : : : : lasted : latitude : : law :, : : : : : :, : : : : : : : law­related : laws :,, lawsuit : lawyer :, lawyers :, : lead : : : leave : led : leeway : legal : : : legislative : : : :, : legislators : legislature : : :,, :, : : : :, legitimately : Lehnert : :, : : : : Lodge : legitimate : Logan : Official ­ Subject to Final Review Knox : : lesser : :, : : : : : looks : lot : : : : : :, : : : : : : maximum : mean :, :, : : : : : : : : : meaning : means : : let's : : :,, :, : letter : level : levels : leverage : : leveraging : : : : :, : : low : lunch : M Madison : meant : : main : major : media : mediate : meet : : meeting : majority : member : : life : limiting : : :, line :, : : : : :, :, making : : : :,, : : : : lines : manage : : : : members : : : : : :, : :, members' : membership : : list : listen : literally : litigation : : : little : Lloyd : lobby : : : lobbying : management : : :,, :, : memo : : : :, : : : mentioned : management­... : managers : : : merit : : : : : : : : :, : managing : mess : :, : :, : local :, MICHAEL : :, : : Michigan : Marbury : micromanaging matter : : mandatory : : : : long : : :, : long­term : longer : : : : mileage : : : : : : : million : : :,, millions : :, : : : : : mind : minimize : look : : matters : Alderson Reporting Company minority : minute : minutes : : Mm­hmm : modern : moment : Monday : monetary : money : : neglect : negotiate : : : : :, : : : : : negotiated : : : negotiating : : neither : : : : : : :, negotiation :, : :, : :,,, : : Moose : morning : mouth : move : movement : mundane : new : : : : : : : nevertheless : : never : : : N N :, : name : national : nearly : necessarily : : : necessary : : : necessity : : need : : : : : : : : : :, :, : : : : :, needs : : : : : newspaper : NLRA : : NLRB : nonchargeable : nonmember : : nonmembers : :, : : : nonspeech : note : : noted : notice : :, notion :, :, notwithstandi... : NTEU : number : : : OO : : object :objected ::objecting :: :objection :objectives :objects :obligation :obligations:obviously :: ::occur : : occurring :occurs :odd :offense : offered : : offering : officers :, official : : : officials :, :, : : Oh : : :, : : okay : : : once : : one's : one­page : ones : ongoing : : open : : operate : Official ­ Subject to Final Review : operating : overrule : numerous : operational : opinion : : : opponents : opportunity : : oppose : : : : opposed : : : : : opposite : : opposition : :,, : :, overruled : : :, : overruling : :, : : : overturn : overturned : : overturning :, : overwhelming : : opt :,, :,, :,,, overwritten :, overwhelmingly opt­in : : opt­in/opt­out : opt­out : : opted : : oral : :,, : : : : : order : : ordinary : organ : organization :, orientation : ought : : : : : oughtn't : : outlawed : outset : outside : : : : outweighs : : : PP :page : : paid : : paper :Parenthood:, part :, : :: :, : :participate:participates:participation: :particular ::, : : :particularly: :parties :: :partner :Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review person : : :, : : : personal : personnel : : : persons : : perspective : : : Petitioner : Petitioners : : : : : :, : : : : : positive : : : : possible : possibly : :, : potential : : :, power : : :, : : practical : :, : :, : practice : :, : : : : : : : precedent : : : :, : pointed : : : : points : : : : : party : : : pay : : :, : : : : : :, : : :, : : :, : paying : : : : pays : pence : people : policies : : petitioning : police :, Petitioners' : : : : : :, :,,, philosophically : :, phrase : : : : : : physical : : : : :, Pickering :, : : :, : : :, : :, : :,,, :, : :, pick : : : percent : perceived : :, : : : :, place : : : percentage : plaintiff : perfectly : Planned : perform : : : : : : : : policy : : :, :, : : : : :, political : : :, : :, : :, : : : :, : :, : :, : : :, prevents : primarily : principal : : principle : : : : principles : : : : prior : : : : private : : :, :, : :,, :, :, : : : : : :, :, : :, : problem : : : : : : : : precisely : :, : : predictability : : preempts : prefer : preliminary : premise : prerogatives : prescinding : prescribes : procedure : present : process :, : presentation :, presentations : : : : : : :, : : : presented : programs : : performance : play : pleadings : position :, posed : : period : please : : : : : : periods : permissible : Plessy : permitted :, Plus : : permitting : pocket : perpetual : pockets : Perry : point : : : : presents : preserving : : presumably : : :, : : : : :, :, : presumption : :, :, : positions : pretty : :, : : : :, prevail : :, progress : prohibit : : prohibits : : prominently : promote : promotion : pronounceme... Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review : : : : : :, quote : : :, :, : quoting : : : : :, public's : R : radical : railroads : :, : Railway : publicly : : R : proof : properly : proprietor : prosaic : prosecutor : prosecutor's : prospective : : prospectively : prosper : : pudding : punishment :, pure : purpose : : :, : protecting : protection : purposes : pushing : put : : : : :, : : : : protest : provide : : :, : putting : : Q provided : provides : providing : provision : : : : provisions : :, question : : : : : : : :, :, : :,, : : : : : : :,, : : : : : public : : : :, : : : : :, :,, : : : : : : : :, :,, : questions : : : :,,, :,,, :,,,, : :, :, : quite : : : : :,, raised : : : : raises : : : range : : rate :, rates : rational : rationale : : : :, : read : : : : reaffirm : reaffirmed : real : realistically : really : : : : : : : : : : reasonable : regulations : : : : : : reasonableness : : : : : reasonably : : : regulator : reimbursement : : related : relation : relations :, : : : :, reasoning : relationship reasons : : : : : : : :, : : : : REBECCA : REBUTTAL : : receive : receiving : recipients : recognized : : : : : : : relationships : : relatively : relevant : reliance : : : : : : relied : relief : remain : remainder : remember : : : recommendati... removed : : replace : recompensed : : record : :, : : : replete : report : : represent : : : :, representation reelection : referring : reform : regardless : representative :, :, : : : : : :,, :, : : : : : regime : regulating : : : : : : : : Regulation : rationales : reach : : recognizes : recognizing : recollection reaching : : : : :, : realm :, : : : : reason : : : : : : Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review represented : : representing : :, : : : : : : represents : Respondents' Republican : Republicans response : : : require :, : : : : responsibilities : : : :, : : : :, restore : : : restrict : : : required : : restricting : : :, restriction : : restrictions : : : : result : results : retroactively : review :, : :, : : : : : : : requirement :, : :, requirements : : requires : : : : : requiring :, :, : research : reserve : respect : : : : : : : : : : : :, : :,, respectfully : : : : : : respects : respond : : : Respondent : : : Respondents : rights : : : : : : rise : risk : rival : ROBERTS : : :, : :, :,,, : :, : : : :, : :, :, : : :, :, : : : : robust : role : : : :, : room : : rule : : :,, : : : : : sector :,, : : : :, : :, secure : secured : see : : :, : :, : : :, seek : seized : sell : send :, seniority : sense : : : San : saying : : : : : : : : : :, : : : :, :,, : :, : : says : : : : : : : : : : : : Scalia :, sensitive : :,, : sentence : : :, separate : :, : : : : :, serious : :,,, : : : seriously : serve : service : Scalia's : scheme : school : : : : : : : : : : : scope : : : : services : :, : :, set : :, : : : : : sets : severability : severable :, score : scrutiny :, sexual : share : : : :, : : se : search :, second : : : : : : section : : : shared : shares : shop : :, : shops :, : short : shortfall : revoke : ride : rider : riders : right :, : run : : ruled : : rules : : :,, :,,, :,, :, : :,, :,, : : :, :,, : : : : : :, :, : :,,, : : : running :, Rutan : : S S : : sacrifice : safe : safety : :,, : Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review show : : : : : : : : : : sorry : : : : :, : sort : : : : : :, : : :,, : :, :, : : : : : :,, :,, :,, :, : : : :, : : : showing : shown :, Sotomayor : side :, : :, : :, : : :, : : : : : :, : :,,, : :, : :, sides : : :,,, significance : :,, :, : :, : : : :,,, : :, spheres : :, : :, significant : silence : significantly speeches : spend : : : : : : : sphere :,, : : :,, : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : :, : : : : : submit : : : submitted : State's : statement : :,, : : : : subordinate states :,, : : subordination : : : : : :, subsequent : : :,,, : :, subsidization : :, :, : subsidize : : subsided : : statute :, silenced :, Similarly : simply : : : : : : : sinful : single : : : Sir : situation : : : : : situations : six : size : : : : small : smaller : so­called : society : : sounds : : Southworth : :,, sovereign : : : :, : : speak : : : : : : :, speaker : speaking : : special :, :, : specialized : specifically : : : Solicitor :, speech : : :, : somebody : :,,, : :,, somewhat : : : square : stability : stably : stage : stake : standard : :,, : standards : standing : stands : stare : :, : :, : : : : : stark : start : : : state : :, : : :, :, :,,, :,,,, :,, :, : : : statutory : stop :, stops : story : strange : Street : strict : strictly : strike : :, strikes : : stripping : strong : strongly : :,, struck : : : : structure : : student : : students : subject : : : : : :, : :, :, : :, subsidizing : : : subsidy : :, substantially : substantive : subsumes : successfully : sudden : suddenly : suffice : sufficient : suggest : suggesting : suggests : : : summarizing : Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review supplying : support : : take : : : termination : : : : supported : :, : supporting : : : : : suppose : : : : : : :, : suppress : : : suppresses : suppression : : Supreme :, sure : : : : : : : : : survival : survive :, :,, : : : survives : sustained : sympathize : system : :, : : :, : :, : : :, : : : systems : T T :, table : : : Taft­Hartley : : : : : : : : : : :, : taken : : : talk : : : talking : : : : :, : : : : : : tax : taxpayer : teacher : : : : : teachers : : : :, : : : :, : : : : : :, :, : : :, :, teachers' : : technical : technique : tell :, : : : : tells : : ten : tenor : tens : : tenure : term : : terminate : terms : : : :, : : test : Thaler : thank : :, : : :,,, : theory : thing : : : : : : :, : : things : : :, : : : : : : :, : : : :, : :, : : :, : : : : : think : : : :, : : : : :, : :, : : :, :,, : :, : :, : :, : : : : :,,, :, : : :, : : :,,, :, : : :, : :, : :,, : :, :, : : : : thinking : : thinks : : third : : Thomas : thought : : : : thousand : thousands : : : : : : three : : : : : thrust : time : : :,, : : :, : : :, : : times : : today : : tomorrow : topics : : : : tough : trade­off : training : : : : :, :, : transfer : transferring Alderson Reporting Company : transit : translate : treat : treating : treatment : : tricky : trouble : trucks : true : :, : : : try : : : : trying : : : : :, : : : :,, turning : turns : Twenty­five : two : : : : : : : : : : :, : : : : : : tyrannical : UU.S.C :Uh­huh :unconstitutio... : ::underlays ::, underlying :undermined:, underperform... Official ­ Subject to Final Review : : Valley : variety :, various : vehicle : Verrilli : : :, : :, : :,, :,, : :, :, view : : : : :, :, : : :, : : : walk : want : : weighs : weight : welfare : : : : : : : : : :, : well­being : :, : went : : : : :, : :, wide : : :, : : : : wholly : : : wide­ranging : : widely : wanted : willing : : : : : : Wisconsin : wants : : : wish : : viewed : viewpoint : Washington : word : viewpoint­dis... war :, :,, : words : : : virtually : ways : : visualize : vividly : voice : void : voluntary : : : viewpoints : views : : :, : :, : violating : violation : : : :, : voted : vouches : W wage­ : wages : :, : : wait : way :, : : : : work : :, : : : : : : : : : : : :, : : :, workable : : : : : : workability : : : worked : : : workers : : :, : : : We'll : we're : : : : : : : : : :, : : : : : : :, : : : :, :, : working : :, : workforce : we've :, : : : weaker : : : : working­cond... : workplace : union's : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : underpinnings : understand : : : : : : :, : understanding : understands : undo : undoubtedly unionism : unions : : : : :, :,, :, : : : :, : : : : : : :, : : unique : unit :, United :,, unlawfully : unreasonable : : universities : : : : :, undue : unduly : union : : : :,, : : :,, : : :,, :,, : :, : :, :,,, : : : : :, : :, : :,,, : :, :, : upheld : : : : :, :, : : : :, : uphold : :,,,, :,,, :, :, : : : :, : :,, :, : : :, : :,, :,, user : uses : usually :, unrest : unwilling : unworkable : : v : : : upholding : use : : : : : V Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review : : : :, :,, :, : : :, :, :, : : workplace­rel... : : workplaces : : world : : wouldn't : : : : : woven : written : wrong : : :, :, : X x :, : Y Yeah : year : : :, years : :,, : : years' : York : young : Z : : : : : : : : : ­ : : (b) : s : : (b) : : : :,, : : : :, s : : : : s : : : : : : :, Alderson Reporting Company 