Official ­ Subject to Final Review        IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES        ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ x                                  ROBERT J. WITTMAN, ET AL.,             :             Appellants                : No. ­         v.                          GLORIA PERSONHUBALLAH, ET AL.,                    Appellees.             : : : ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ x                                                         Washington, D.C.                         Monday, March ,                  The above­entitled matter came on for oral       argument before the Supreme Court of the United States         at : a.m.   APPEARANCES: MICHAEL A. CARVIN, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf of            Appellants. STUART A. RAPHAEL, ESQ., Richmond, Va.; on behalf of            State Appellees.  MARC E. ELIAS, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf of            private Appellees.  IAN H. GERSHENGORN, ESQ., Deputy Solicitor General,             Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; for United       States, as amicus curiae, supporting Appellees.      Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review                                    C O N T E N T S ORAL ARGUMENT OF                                      PAGE MICHAEL A. CARVIN, ESQ.       On behalf of the Appellants                            ORAL ARGUMENT OF   STUART A. RAPHAEL, ESQ.       On behalf of the State Appellees                        ORAL ARGUMENT OF   MARC E. ELIAS, ESQ.       On behalf of the private Appellees                      ORAL ARGUMENT OF   IAN H. GERSHENGORN, ESQ.          For United States, as amicus curiae,      supporting Appellees                                REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF   MICHAEL A. CARVIN, ESQ.       On behalf of the Appellants                            Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review                                       P R O C E E D I N G S                                        (: a.m.)                CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument     first today in Case No. ­, Wittman v.        Personhuballah.             Mr. Carvin.             ORAL ARGUMENT OF MICHAEL A. CARVIN                     ON BEHALF OF THE APPELLANTS                 MR. CARVIN: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it         please the Court:               The sum total of the alleged Shaw violation        here is that the legislature treated black­majority       District the same way as it treated the           majority­white districts. It's undisputed that with       respect to all of those districts, they preserved the         cores of the districts, and whatever minor injustice ­­                    JUSTICE GINSBURG: Is that ­­ is that        undisputed? How did they preserve the core when they          shifted something like , people around?                  MR. CARVIN: Right. Your Honor, percent         of the prior occupants of District were in the core.            The plaintiff's alternative only had ,. If ­­        anybody who spent a minute doing redistricting knows         that simply because they're , short, that doesn't        mean you're going to move anywhere near ,. If I           Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review may explain: For example, District in Virginia was          , short. They moved , people to fill that          up. The district directly adjacent to District was           District . That was the most ­­                   JUSTICE GINSBURG: Was there any holding       that that preserved the core?                 MR. CARVIN: Yes. Obviously, they said that         core preservation was the most important interpretation.       The district court found that incumbency protection and        politics were inarguably motivating the district. The        way they were protecting incumbents was through core        preservation. And the key problem here is, they never          found that race subordinated incumbency protection or       politics, or that it was in any way inconsistent ­­                     JUSTICE GINSBURG: And how can we take        politics when the drafter of the plan ­­ rightly or          wrongly, the drafter of the plan represented to the         court, I haven't looked at partisan performance. It was           not one of the factors I considered in drawing          districts. Now, we have to take that. That's what the            drafter of the plan said. He didn't take into account           partisan performance.              MR. CARVIN: He said he didn't look at         partisan performance statistics. In the face of that         statement, the court found as a fact that politics          Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review inarguably motivated these districts. Every incumbent       was re­elected in the district. The ­­                   JUSTICE KENNEDY: Politics motivates the      change in district. That is our objective. That is           what we seek to do, to preserve incumbency or whatever.                                  MR. CARVIN: Right.    JUSTICE KENNEDY: May we then use race to         move people from one district to another, simply because         that's the easiest way to do it? We know that this is a              ­­ a race that votes strongly for a particular party, so             we can use race for this ultimate neutral purpose?                     MR. CARVIN: You can't use race as a proxy,           Justice Kennedy, and it's very important to note that         they didn't find ­­               JUSTICE KENNEDY: The ­­ the district ­­ I         understood your argument to be that, so ­­                               me.             MR. CARVIN: No.    JUSTICE KENNEDY: So perhaps you can correct        MR. CARVIN: It's the difference between       Cromartie II and using race as a proxy. Cromartie II            tells the Federal judiciary you can't use politics as a          proxy for race.               Here, when it's conceded by the plaintiffs       that everything we did made perfect sense if everybody         Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review in District was white, we know that they wouldn't have            led to a dramatic exodus of Democratic voters into the           four adjacent districts, all of which had Republican        incumbents, if all of those people were white. And          therefore, since they were pursuing exactly the same        incumbency protection and political motivation with      respect to District , they are not somehow disabled         from doing that simply because the predominantly       Democratic voters happen to be black.                              CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: How did you ­­       MR. CARVIN: That is why Cromartie II        insisted that plaintiffs show, meet the demanded burden        of showing, that's ­­ race ­­ traditional districting        principles were subordinated to race rather than       politics.             CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: How do you show what         the motive of the legislature was? Let's say you have            percent of the legislators say this is because of          race ­­ that's their motive ­­ percent say it's          because of partisanship, and percent say nothing at         all. What ­­ what is the motive of that legislature?                       MR. CARVIN: Right. I think it's very          difficult to discern motive in a multimember legislative         body, which is why this Court has always looked, for          example, in Cromartie II, what are the effects?        Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review             If, for example, there was a way of         achieving the political objectives without respect to       the racial composition of the enacted district, then it         should be simple as pie for plaintiffs to come in with           an alternative that doesn't rely on race that achieves         their legitimate political objectives, and yet      plaintiffs in the district court here have proved that         any realteration of District which results in a          diminution of the black voting­age population would be        absolutely contrary to the normal political agenda that        would be motivating the legislature if everybody       involved was white.               The plaintiff's alternative only reduced the      BVAP by percent to percent, and yet that converted            District with a brand­new Republican incumbent from a           toss­up district to what plaintiffs themselves      characterize as a heavily Democratic district. The         Court's remedy demonstrates that the reduction was to         percent. And what did that do? It dismantled entirely           District and District . It took away about half the             districts.             JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But it ­­ but it made         District more compact.                 MR. CARVIN: The only way to make it more          compact is to split the district in half. That was the            Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review point we are making.                JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, this district was       never compact to start with.                 MR. CARVIN: Well ­­                JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I mean, it's ­­ it's         contiguous only by water, not by land.                   MR. CARVIN: Well ­­                JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: And it runs a very         unusual route.              MR. CARVIN: It's certainly reasonably      compact within the meaning of the Supreme Court ­­        Virginia Supreme Court's definition of compactness,      where you have to look at whether or not they're          preserving the core of the existing district to assess         ­­                                    JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: The new plan ­­      MR. CARVIN: ­­ capacity.     JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: ­­ splits less      districts. It ­­ all of these plans have their flaws,           but the new one at least splits less districts, and it           is more compact under traditional criteria.                  MR. CARVIN: That is only half­accurate,       Justice Sotomayor. It splits just as many political         boundaries, county lines, as ours does, . That's what          Special Master Grofman said in his report.       Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review             It is more compact, but I want to         re­emphasize, the only way to make it more compact is to           split District in half and to split District in             half. And what happens when you do that? It puts            Representative Forbes in a percent Democratic        district, and he loses half of his incumbency advantage.         Worse still, the avowed purpose of splitting them in         half was to create two black opportunity districts, so         it's actually more race­conscious than what the       legislature did.              JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Would you spend a few         minutes on whether this case is moot or not?                     As I understand it, the vast majority of the          districts of the representatives who are parties to this         action have not been changed in any meaningful way.         Forbes is the only one who had a ­­ who had, perhaps, a              live claim, but he's decided to run in another district.          So how do we have a live claim or controversy?                       MR. CARVIN: Oh, because what they did to ­­         to Representative Forbes was to severely hamper and        be ­­ make impossible ­­                JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But he has decided not        to run.              MR. CARVIN: Right, and that means the        injury is so severe that it forced him out of the           Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review districts.             Let's assume you had paired two Republican       incumbents, and what ­­               JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Is he going to go back         and run in the old district?                  MR. CARVIN: But for the remedial order, he         would obviously be running in District . That's where          he lives, that's where he's a ­year incumbent, and          that's where he's got a huge incumbency advantage. The           fact that ­­ the injury that they imposed on him in           District was so severe it pushed him out.                      Plaintiffs don't need to continue down what       they were doing. This Court has found that the worst           kind of injury is when the challenge back ­­                    JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Are you representing      that if the map goes back to the enacted form, not the            new one, that he will run in his old district?                      MR. CARVIN: Absolutely. He will run in the          district that he lives in, that he has been reelected in           for years, and that he has a huge incumbency           advantage, rather than going to a new district, where           percent of the voters will not be ­­                    JUSTICE GINSBURG: And as ­­                 MR. CARVIN: I'm sure this was undisputed.                    JUSTICE GINSBURG: As to the old district ­­        Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review I mean, we do have a rule that ­­ District A is              allegedly gerrymandered. Voters in District B can't         challenge that. You have to be a voter in the district             that's allegedly gerrymandered. So how is it that a          voter in District could not bring a challenge, but the             representative of the voters in District can?                     MR. CARVIN: Because they're asserting the       constitutional right. And as this Court held in Hayes,          certainly these people in adjacent districts are       injured; they are just not injured in a way that's           cognizable under the Fourteenth Amendment, because their       personal right to discrimination has not been validated.                    But we are defendants appealing an adverse       order. Defendants appealing an adverse order never        argue that the adverse order violates their       constitutional rights. They're arguing that it disrupts        the status quo by changing the rules, and the status quo           is what they are defending.                 This Court has made it clear repeatedly, in        ASARCO, Swann, Electronic Fittings, that obviously, if       the remedial order puts the defendants in a worse          position than they were, they have a direct stake in the            outcome of the appeal and they can appeal.                    If the rule were otherwise, Justice      Ginsburg, no defendant could ever appeal an adverse        Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review order, because the adverse orders virtually never are        alleged to violate their rights. So it's precisely the          same sort of injury suffered by Representative Forbes as         we ­­ would be suffered by an incumbent who lived in           District .              Let's assume the incumbent in District had         intervened, and they dropped the BVAP to percent and          made it a percent Republican district. Is anyone           arguing that that incumbent couldn't challenge the order        that severely hampers his or her chances for        re­election, the answer is clearly yes. Since        Representative Forbes in the adjacent district has       suffered precisely the same kind of injury, as I had           hypothesized for the incumbent in District by analogy          to Hays, obviously he has standing to appeal.                    CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What about Brat?       What about Brat?               MR. CARVIN: I could argue, Your Honor, if I           wanted to that Brat and Wittman, who had seven and one,           also had their districts changed in a way. But I must              admit, the palpable negative political consequences are       de minimis compared to that suffered by Representative        Forbes. So while I'm certainly not abandoning it, I          have to face the reality, if you're not accepting my          argument for Appellant Forbes in R, you won't accept         Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review it for Brat and Wittman in one and seven.                     JUSTICE BREYER: Normally, the defendant is       the State in a voting rights case. They are the ones             that have the plan until someone attacks the plan.         These were Intervenors because they were affected. The         Court said you could intervene. Now the State's gone.                      I'm looking for some kind of ­­ of rule or          some kind of workable standard such that a new plan that            the Court puts in would allow some people in other          districts to remain to defend it, but not everybody. Or           do you think everybody? I mean, after all, a plan in a               smaller State that affects one district and makes        changes likely affects people in every district, at        least some of them. Some people will find it easier to            get elected, some harder. I haven't found a case that             supports you, but you'll tell me which one.                                            MR. CARVIN: I ­­ I will give you two.            JUSTICE BREYER: Okay. Good.      MR. CARVIN: ASARCO ­­ ASARCO articulates       the burden in a nonelection context which is, do you           suffer a threat to your current injuries because of the           lower court opinion? And the best case is actually          Meese v. Keene in applying that injury to hurting your          chances for re­election.               JUSTICE BREYER: Meese ­­    Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review             MR. CARVIN: Meese v. Keene, where the Court         found that because they had attached the propaganda        label to this California Democratic legislator's acid       rain documentary, that hurt his chances for re­election.        Solicitor General says, let's use the word "reputation."        That's true, but reputation was only relevant because it         hurt his chances for re­election. If you look, Justice          Breyer, carefully at the case, you will see there is not           a scintilla of evidence suggesting that his reputation        was harmed.              JUSTICE BREYER: I'm ­­                MR. CARVIN: And after all ­­ I'm sorry.                     JUSTICE BREYER: And the distinction      between, let's say, the best one is the split district,          you know, the one you were just talking about,         Representative ­­             MR. CARVIN: Forbes.                JUSTICE BREYER: ­­ Forbes, right.                  If he has standing, who doesn't?                  MR. CARVIN: Well, the standard is Meese v.         Keene, and this was the argument that this California         Democratic legislature running an acid rain documentary       said. He said he's hurt for re­election because Ed          Meese and the Reagan Justice Department labelled it        "propaganda." That's not a severe ­­       Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review             JUSTICE BREYER: But, I mean, in the voting          context, the standard for saying that a person in          another district is hurt enough to be able to maintain a           standing here, and these people aren't, which ones are         and which ones aren't? Meese used the formulation harm          his chances for re­election.                            MR. CARVIN: You can attack ­­      JUSTICE BREYER: Harmed his chances for       re­election.             MR. CARVIN: But ­­ but, Justice Breyer,        this is the simplest process. You can use whatever          adjective you want before "harmed"; "substantial,"      "significant." They turned a district that he had          easily won for straight years into a percent           Democratic district, which no Republican has ever won ­­                    JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So we announce a rule ­­         so we announce a rule ­­                  CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: All right. Justice        Sotomayor.             JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: We announce a rule that         every change that affects an incumbent gives the        incumbent the right to challenge the line of change.                     MR. CARVIN: I think any ­­ any time          somebody is injured­in­fact ­­               JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Just answer the question       Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review yes. Every ­­ this is now an incumbency protection          standing rule.                          MR. CARVIN: No.    JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Every time your district       is changed and you believe it hurts you, you have a           right to go to court and say what?                    MR. CARVIN: I want to quibble that ­­ with           the premise, Justice. It's not that you believe it          hurts you. It's that it's undisputed that it hurts you.           That's what it said the evidence shows.                   JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But ­­ but I ­­ but          that's the rule. Do you have a right to claim? It's              one thing to say I'm a voter and I've been racially            discriminated against. What is the incumbent claiming?        It's not racial discrimination against.                 MR. CARVIN: That the remedial order has        hurt dramatically, indeed, irretrievably, his chances      for re­election.              JUSTICE KAGAN: So, Mr. Carvin ­­                  MR. CARVIN: If                JUSTICE KAGAN: ­­ let's assume that that's        true and that that is ­­ counts as an injury­in­fact.          We also have this other requirement in the law, which we           talk about a lot less, but it seems to be quite well             established, which is that there needs to a kind of           Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review legally recognized interest. So it's not just that you          have to have an injury­in­fact, although you have to         have that, but that there needs to be an injury to a            legally recognized interest.               So what is the legally recognized interest       here that the ­­ the legislators are banking on?                                 MR. CARVIN: That he wants to be elected.         JUSTICE KAGAN: No, that's ­­ that's ­­       that's, you know, he wants to be elected. He has been            injured­in­fact in the kind of practical ways we can all          understand for the injury. But this other part of the           test really suggests that you need a kind of legal           recognition of your claim, and that's what I'm searching         for here.              MR. CARVIN: Well, two points: You surely         don't need to show any cognizable right. Nobody is          arguing that they have a right to these districts. If,            again, appealing defendants had to show a legally         cognizable right, then nobody would be able to appeal         because they are never arguing that the adverse judgment         deprived them a legal right.                  JUSTICE KAGAN: Are you saying that that        part of our standing doctrine which does look as to          whether there is a legally cognizable right is only good           for plaintiffs, and that once the inquiry shifts to the          Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review defendant, it just completely drops out of the picture?                     MR. CARVIN: It just recognizes the reality        the difference between a plaintiff filing a complaint          challenging a State law and the defendant who is          defending the State law, who is obviously not going to          argue that his legal rights have been violated, he has          the same interest as the people who are supposed to be           defending the State law, which is he was well benefited          under the status quo ante, and he has suffered direct          injury­in­fact because of the alteration caused by the        remedial order. And ­­ and the ­­                   JUSTICE KENNEDY: Justice Kagan can ask her        own question, but he suffered injury­in­fact to what?                    MR. CARVIN: To his ability to be reelected.         The same injury­in­fact that was recognized in Meese v.         Keene, Davis v. FTC, and a host of cases like ­­                       JUSTICE KENNEDY: So they are right to        assert that you have a legally recognized interest in          being re­elected without, I don't know, improper        interference or something like that?                 MR. CARVIN: Not having a State entity, in          this case a Federal entity, affirmatively intervene,        override the sovereign prerogatives of the State, and        create an electoral system which substantially      diminishes, indeed eliminates, his chances for election.       Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review Why is that not injury­in­fact? There was        injury­in­fact every time this Court says ­­                  JUSTICE KAGAN: I wasn't ­­ I wasn't ­­ I            wasn't contesting the injury­in­fact requirement. I       think I was ­­ I was asking about ­­ and it really is a                question ­­ how this other separate requirement, which        is that the invasion of ­­ that has to be to a legally              protected interest applies in the context of a        defendant. And you're just suggesting it drops out         entirely. And I guess I'm suggesting ­­ I mean, I might               be right, but it seems odd that a plaintiff would have            to show it, and a defendant, it ­­ it just disappears            from the inquiry.               MR. CARVIN: May I clarify? They need to           show a legally cognizable interest. What they don't          have to show, unlike the plaintiff, is that legally         cognizable interest is a protected Constitutional or        statutory right.              legally ­­             JUSTICE KENNEDY: But would they have a        JUSTICE KAGAN: So the legally cognizable       interest is ­­ just finish the sentence for me.                     MR. CARVIN: That he has been       injured­in­fact and has a direct stake in the outcome          because he wants to be re­elected.      Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review              JUSTICE KAGAN: That just ­­ that just makes        the legally cognizable interest the same as the        injury­in­fact requirement.                                      MR. CARVIN: Fair enough ­­     JUSTICE ALITO: I'm sorry. Go ahead.        MR. CARVIN: Okay. No, I ­­ I apologize.            But I ­­ I do want to make ­­ eliminate any confusion              with Justice Kagan.               Here is the point: Why would, of all the          harms in American society, harms to re­election not be         legally cognizable? As the Solicitor General points        out, the point of standing is to keep the Federal          judiciary in its proper role ­­ limited role in         democracy. If two unelected judges have falsely altered         the State's sovereign's view of redistricting, that       would be the situation where we would want to find the           injury most cognizable because that's where the Court        exercises extraordinary caution and extraordinary     abilities. I apologize.                 JUSTICE ALITO: There are two questions.       There's the question injury­in­fact, which you've been       talking about.              Now, on the issue of legally cognizable       interest, does a member of Congress who wants to be           re­elected have a legally cognizable interest in running         Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review in a district that was lawfully enacted by the State           legislature?             MR. CARVIN: Yes, he certainly does, because        obviously the interference ­­ and you have to accept as          true for standing purposes ­­ the improper interference        in the Federal judiciary into that political thicket,        which harms him and rearranges the entire district, is         obviously injury­in­fact, and is just the kind of        interest that this Court would want to find cognizable,         because, after all, it's most concerned about the        Federal judiciary hijacking the political process much       more than in any other ­­                 JUSTICE BREYER: Here ­­ here is the basic         problem. I ­­ I can't get the right analysis. Look,              normally a plaintiff is suing because somebody did         something to him. So the defendant is the person who           did it. And normally we're looking for the standing of           a plaintiff, and there are all kinds of rules there.                      The person who did this to the plaintiff is         the State. They're not in it anymore. So what ­­ of             course the ­­ the difficulty comes from the fact that          the congressmen aren't the people who did it. I mean,            these particular people aren't the ones who did it, but          they're still in the case.                 It's rather like Smith sues Jones for a        Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review nuisance. There's an order entered. It is an          injunction. Jones's neighbor Brown says, this       injunction is hurting me. Now, does Brown have         standing? And ­­ and at that point we're into a           new kind of a case, and I'm sure there's law on it. And               ­­ and I just haven't got the right things yet. And ­­             and these cases ­­ they have the ­­ they'll have the           language, you say. I'm just not certain of the way to            analyze it.              MR. CARVIN: I ­­ I've given you ASARCO;          I've given you Meese v. Keene.                              JUSTICE BREYER: Yeah. Yeah ­­      MR. CARVIN: Now let's talk ­­ let's talk         about incumbency protection generally.                JUSTICE BREYER: Okay.                MR. CARVIN: If they had paired two        incumbents.             This Court found in Karcher v. Daggett,       Justice Brennan said, that kind of political       gerrymandering imposes such a severe injury ­­                               population.             JUSTICE BREYER: Yeah.    MR. CARVIN: ­­ you can adjust equal        In Larios, this ­­ where this Court       summarily affirmed, they said that kind of injury is a          Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review classic tool of political gerrymandering. Is it        conceivable that ­­ that paired incumbents would have no         standing to the challenge the fact that a court has put            them in the same district?                 Your Honor is recognizing that incumbency      protection is one of the neutral districting principles        no different than compactness or anything else, which        gives incumbents special factual distinctions from the       run­of­the­mill people.              In Term Limits v. Thornton, this Court held        it was unconstitutional to make it more difficult for         incumbents to be reelected because they had to engage in          mail­in campaigns rather than be on the ballot.                    So we are talking about a well­recognized        constitutional right where incumbents do ­­ are not        similarly situated to average voters and do have very         different factual interests. If it is undisputed, as it          is, that the sole reason that Representative Forbes is         now facing doom in District is because of this order,            I can't understand any reason why the Court would sit          back and allow the Federal judiciary to hijack the most          intensely partisan kind of litigation we have.                   JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Carvin, can I ­­ can I           take you back to the merits? Let me give you a            hypothetical. It's not this case. It's a different           Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review MR. CARVIN: Okay.    JUSTICE KAGAN: Let's say that there are        case.                         some racist mapdrawers, and ­­ and they say, here's what          we're going to do. We're going to set districts, and we            really want to segregate African­Americans. And so ­­        and they say, that's our ­­ that's our first aim.                      But we also have a second aim. It turns out            that African­Americans vote in a particular way. And so           our second aim is that we are going to achieve some kind            of partisan advantage as a result of this segregation.                                  MR. CARVIN: Uh­huh.    JUSTICE KAGAN: Now what should be the right         answer to that question? Is there strict scrutiny in          such a case?                MR. CARVIN: I give precisely the answer         this Court gave in Alabama where they had an absolute          BVAP floor which you could argue was trying to segregate          the cases.              This Court didn't say that ipso facto       invalidated all majority­minority districts in      Alabama. It didn't, as this district court said, go          dismantle all . It said, did that racial purpose have           some kind of effect on the ­­                  JUSTICE KAGAN: You're making ­­ you're       Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review making my hypothetical more complicated than it is.        We're just ­­ this it one district, we're just going to           segregate all the African­American voters in this       district. We're doing that primarily because of racial         reasons. We don't like African­American voters, and        we're just going to keep them all in one district. And            secondarily, that has politically­beneficial    consequences for us.                           MR. CARVIN: Right.    JUSTICE KAGAN: Is ­­ and ­­ and so the          question is, is that unconstitutional, because you know,        if I look at that, I say, okay, that's ­­ the race was               your primary motivation. That triggered strict       scrutiny. You failed strict scrutiny; you're out of the          ball game.              But you suggest that you're not out of the         ball game because you have this secondary interest which         coincides with the clearly racist conduct. And that's         the question that I want you to answer.                     MR. CARVIN: If it coincides, and if it is a           motivating factor like it was here, then obviously you         need to show that race was the but­for cause of any           alteration of district lines. You need to show that it           subordinated the neutral principle, and you need to        show, to quote Alabama, that it had an effect on ­­          Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review             JUSTICE KAGAN: Okay. So then ­­ then         you're ­­ then it seems to me you're changing your          argument because in my hypothetical, both of these        things run together. They're not in conflict with each          other.                         MR. CARVIN: Right.    JUSTICE KAGAN: So you're saying the ­­ the         critical question is not conflict. I had thought that           you thought that the critical question was conflict.        Rather, the critical question is which is the primary         motivation or which is the but­for purpose, and which is          the secondary motivation, even if both run in line with          each other. That's a different kind of test.                      MR. CARVIN: No. I'm ­­ I'm happy to          clarify, Justice Kagan. If they're completely       co­extensive, if as here, the only way to accomplish         your incumbency protection in political purposes was by        doing where race predominated, then obviously it can't        be the but­for cause. If ­­                  JUSTICE KAGAN: This is ­­ this is ­­ it's          very clear, just as it is in this case I have to say,              they have a list of criteria, and number one on the list             is race. And then we have a lot of direct evidence in              my hypothetical that this is for the most heinous racial          purposes imaginable.  Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review MR. CARVIN: Right.    JUSTICE KAGAN: And the question is, does                                the fact that it also has political benefits, does that          insulate these line drawers from what you would think is          the obvious conclusion, which is this is       unconstitutional conduct?              MR. CARVIN: In every context, Mount       Healthy, Gross, even outside of the Shaw cases where         plaintiffs have a special burden to show, it's race          rather than politics. Even in those cases, you need to           show that the impermissible factor was the but­for cause         of the challenge, that ­­                JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, he says, this is our         first priority.              MR. CARVIN: Yes. And every legislature in         every court in the United States has ranked the Voting          Rights Act higher than other things because they all         recognize the Supremacy Clause.                JUSTICE KAGAN: But in my hypothetical ­­                   MR. CARVIN: But ­­ but ­­ but ­­                    JUSTICE KAGAN: ­­ it's his first priority        because he is a racist line drawer.                    MR. CARVIN: Great. Let's assume that he         picked percent BVAP out of the air and just wanted to            make that his top priority. Does that have any effect           Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review on district lines? If it is undisputed and clear, as it            is here, that they would have drawn the district         precisely the same way to protect incumbents and        politics, that if you diminish below that BVAP floor,         even to percent, we know to a certainty because           plaintiffs have proved to us that that would ­­ that          would ­­             JUSTICE KAGAN: That ­­ that sounds to me as          though it's a harmless error rule for racial         discrimination. And we've never had a harmless error          rule for racial discrimination. What we've said is,         look, we just found racially­discriminatory purpose, end       of case.              MR. CARVIN: What you found in Cromartie,        it's not harmless error. You need to show but­for          causation or effect, as they said in Alabama.                    Cromartie held, as a matter of law, the fact          that there was racial percentages, lack of compactness,        and breaking of county lines is insufficient as a matter           of law to find a violation. Why? Because there is an              equally plausible explanation, which is politics. And        it is the plaintiffs' demanding burden to prove race         rather than politics.               JUSTICE KAGAN: Yes, but ­­                 MR. CARVIN: And we ­­     Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review             JUSTICE ALITO: Could I ask a question,          which is really highlighted by Justice Kagan's       hypothetical? Because normally, were ­­ were it not for          the Voting Rights Act, there would be a very simple           answer to all of these questions, and that is that you           cannot take race in account at all. It's invidious          discrimination to take governmental action on the basis        of race.              Does Shelby County have any relevance to       this case? Is this the type of case that will never            come up again in the future if the Voting Rights Act is            not amended?              MR. CARVIN: Right. You need not worry         about this in , but the issue here, Justice Alito,          is what was the reality confronting the legislature in         ? And they had to get preclearance by the Justice           Department in record time, so they needed to get very          quick preclearance, which is why it made eminently good         sense not to go ­­ go below the benchmark BVAP.                      But even if we assume, to get back to         Justice Kagan's question, that they just plucked        percent out of the air, it still doesn't establish a           violation because this Court has said countless times,        race is always a factor in redistricting. So it's not            like employment in another context.     Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review             And here's what the Court said in Cromartie        II, and the lower court completely defied, it said, in a           case such as this one where majority­minority districts        are at issue, and where racial identification correlates        highly with political affiliation, the party attacking       the legislative­drawn boundaries must show at the ­­       least that the legislature could have accomplished its        legitimate political objective in a different way.                    JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, the first seven words        of that quote are "in a case such as this one."                        MR. CARVIN: Yes.                JUSTICE KAGAN: And the question is what did         they mean by that? And one understanding of what they           meant when they said "in a case such as this one" is in              a case in which there was no direct evidence of racial           motivation but only circumstantial evidence, and ­­ and        the ­­ and the absence or the presence of a map was             indeed relevant to the question of whether that        circumstantial evidence added up to the conclusion that        race was the motivator.                MR. CARVIN: I ­­ I must respectfully          disagree that that's a remotely implausible       interpretation of this language. "In a case such as           this one," comma, "where majority­minority districts are       at issue and where racial identification correlates       Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review highly with political affiliation" was somehow sending       some implicit signal that what we meant was some ­­                     JUSTICE KAGAN: No. It's just in a case           such as this one, the case before us.                    beginning ­­             MR. CARVIN: No, it's ­­ it's ­­ the         JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, why didn't we ask for         a map in Alabama?                MR. CARVIN: It's ­­ why didn't we ­­ the          Court said, remand to find out which districts were         affected by the BVAP floor. Under this theory, all           districts in Alabama, all majority­black districts, are       ipso facto violations of Shaw. And by the way, every           majority­minority district in the country is ipso facto        violative of Shaw, because every legislature and every        court that has created one has invoked the supremacy of          the Voting Rights Act.                But that's not what the court did. The         court said, go back and figure out if race had some           significant effect on the lines. It didn't say, go turn           all majority­black districts into percent­black      districts. And that would be the great evil of          accepting this tautological rule. That is why the Court          has been so insistent on showing that race rather than          politics did it, particularly in States where ­­ like         Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review Virginia, where race and politics are so coextensive.                    the floor.              Without any further questions, I'll yield      CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.                   Mr. Raphael.             ORAL ARGUMENT OF STUART A. RAPHAEL                               ON BEHALF OF THE STATE APPELLEES      MR. RAPHAEL: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it        please the Court:               The district court did not commit clear       error in concluding that race predominated in the        redistricting, triggering strict scrutiny, because ample      evidence supported the district court's finding that       there was a percent­BVAP floor that was used to move            more than , African­American voters into CD.                   CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You ­­ it didn't        commit clear error, but you thought it committed error,         right, given your ­­                           this case?              MR. RAPHAEL: Well, our ­­ our office ­­        CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: ­­ prior position in        MR. RAPHAEL: Your Honor, our office       defended this district at trial. We thought that there          was conflicting evidence about whether race or politics        predominated, and the district court resolved those       Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review factual ­­ factual issues against us. And because of          the clear­error standard, we chose ­­                 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: No, I understand.        But your position, if you were taking a considered          position at trial, is that the ­­ the district court was           wrong, because that was ­­ you presented the facts and          you defended those facts, under your view. And then on           appeal, they overturned it, and you say, okay, they were          wrong, but not clearly wrong.                 MR. RAPHAEL: That's ­­                CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I mean, there's        nothing wrong with that. I just want to make ­­                       MR. RAPHAEL: That's exactly ­­ that's       exactly right. And we didn't ­­ and that's why we           didn't appeal. But the evidence supporting the district         court's finding was amply sufficient under the clear        error standard. It included the sworn expert report,         frankly, by our own expert, that ­­ that conceded that          there was a percent floor. That's page of the             Joint Appendix.              JUSTICE ALITO: Did anything else happen       between the time when your office took the prior         position and ­­              (Laughter.)             JUSTICE ALITO: ­­ your appearance here       Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review today?             MR. RAPHAEL: You may be referring to Judge         ­­ Judge Payne's surmise that because of a change in ­­           in administration ­­              JUSTICE ALITO: No. I'm just asking you:         Was there anything relevant that happened?                  MR. RAPHAEL: Your Honor, our ­­ our        administration came into power in January . The         case was pending on summary judgment. We defended the          district on summary judgment. We defended it at trial.          The same career attorney argued it at trial. When the           district court ruled against Virginia, we had to        evaluate whether we could win on a clear error standard,           and concluded we could not.                 In addition to the ­­ to our own expert's         sworn report that said that there was a percent           floor, Virginia's Section submission referred to a          percent threshold as well. That's at page to            of the Joint Appendix.                JUSTICE ALITO: Which expert are you talking        about?             MR. RAPHAEL: John Morgan, Your Honor. At         page of the Joint Appendix, you'll see his sworn          report, where he refers to a percent floor that was            used in the House of Delegates redistricting. He         Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review actually served as a consultant to the Republicans in          the House of Delegates and served as an expert here.                      CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: One ­­ it was also         one of your experts that said that if every person          involved in these swaps were white, the results would         still be the same, right?                             that ­­                                     MR. RAPHAEL: Well, Mr. Morgan ­­      CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: That's at . Is         MR. RAPHAEL: John McDonald ­­     CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: McDonald, right.      MR. RAPHAEL: ­­ who was the plaintiffs'        expert, he was asked, can't ­­ can't a lot of these            swaps be explained based on ­­ based on politics? And           he said they could be, with the exception, I would say,            of Plaintiffs' Exhibit , which showed that there were         five ­­ that's on page of the Joint Appendix. And            it showed that there were five voting districts that         were dropped from the benchmark district which had above          percent performing ­­ Democratic performance, but       they were very low in BVAP. And I think that that             evidence supports his ­­ his argument that ­­                   CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Would there ­­ would        there be a violation here if the district that were           drawn could be explained on the basis of partisanship         Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review rather than race?               MR. RAPHAEL: If ­­ if the only evidence         were statistical, just like in Easley v. Cromartie, and         it could equally be explained based on partisanship,        you're right, I think we would have won the case and            we'd be defending that position here. But I think what            really killed us was the Morgan ­­ our own expert's          report that said that there was a percent floor.           There was other evidence that there was a floor. The            district court did not commit clear error in ­­ in ­­ in            finding that that was the driving factor here.                    CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: It's a ­­ a question           I asked Mr. Carvin. You're talking about the motive of           the legislature, right? What do you do when it's           percent race, percent partisanship, and, as is often         the case, I suspect, percent of them don't say           anything at all?               MR. RAPHAEL: Right. It would be a lot           harder if you had that kind of case here. But in this             case, there was one sponsor. He said that the BVAP had            to be at least the same in the new district as in the             benchmark district. He said that twice. And then he           said in order to have certainty of preclearance, we need          to bump it up to percent. And if you're ­­                       CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But if you're a        Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review legislature and you say, okay, I understand now what you           said. But I suspect most of them looked at the map and              said, you know, how a.m. I doing here? What's           percentage of Republican? What's percentage of       Democrat? What's the change? They may not have cared           what the sponsor thought about it.                  MR. RAPHAEL: Yeah. Yeah, I think ­­ I           think there may be two ways to look at the evidence in            this case. There is the way that the district court           did, which was to say, there was a percent floor; did             politics trump that? No, because, as Justice Ginsburg         pointed out, the sponsor said, I didn't do a partisan            analysis. That wasn't a factor. And so on that            scenario, the district court didn't commit clear error        in saying there was a floor. It triggered strict           scrutiny, politics didn't ­­ didn't control.                  That's a simple case. The harder case is          the one that you're describing, where, you know, people         might look at this percent floor and think, you know,           this is actually pretty good for Republicans, so I'm         going to quietly go along with it. But in that           instance, race would be used as the proxy for justifying          a ­­ the plan, and I don't think race can be used as a               proxy, to Justice Kennedy's point, nor can it be used as           the excuse, and that's how it was ­­ was used here.           Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review             The other evidence included statements by      members of the House and Senate in the House of          Delegates redistricting at page and . There ­­         there really appears to have been a mantra: "This has            to be at least percent performing." Senator Vogel          said that, and she's an election lawyer. She said, "The           lowest that DOJ will preclear is percent." That's          page of the Joint Appendix. And then Janis's          statements that the most important factor to him was         obtaining preclearance, and it ­­ that ­­                  JUSTICE GINSBURG: Wouldn't there be a basis         for the legislator who said, the Department of Justice         won't accept it if we go below percent? Is it ­­ was              there ­­ was it something she made up, or did she have            some basis for that?                MR. RAPHAEL: The record in this case has no          showing as to where that percent number came from.          In fact, the record shows that this exact district was          precleared previously at percent and at percent.         The Senate ­­ Virginia Senate districts were precleared        at percent ­­               JUSTICE KENNEDY: Are there districts in       other States or in other cases where the BVAP is at            percent or percent, or is that unusually high?                      MR. RAPHAEL: I ­­ I don't know the answer            Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review to that question. The record shows that DOJ precleared          a district as low as percent. That's at page of             the Joint Appendix. That was in South Carolina.                     And we ­­ I agree with Mr. Carvin that it's           not enough to say that we are complying with the VRA and            that that triggers strict scrutiny. I don't think it           does. But when you say we've got to comply with the            VRA, and the way we do that is by having a percent              floor, then I think the trial court got that right, and            that does trigger strict scrutiny.                 Once we lost the issue of race       predominating, that was the end of the case for us,          because we didn't put any evidence ­­ Mr. ­­ and          Mr. Carvin put no evidence in to justify narrow         tailoring as to where that number comes from. It simply           wasn't there.              The ­­ the ­­ Congressman Scott had been        elected by huge margins ­­ percent before this plan          was altered; after it, he was elected by a margin of             percent ­­ and our own defense witness said he wasn't          offering evidence on narrow tailoring. That was the end          of the case on the merits.                    I would like to address the ­­ the standing        issue briefly.              It's not in Virginia's interest, or in any        Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review State's interest, for an officious intermeddler to       prolong litigation like what ­­ what's happening here.        But we looked at the law in Meese v. Keene, and we read             that as standing for the proposition that where an         intervenor can argue injury to his election opportunity,        that is adequate for a standing.                   And in this case, it's true: Congressman        Forbes, the fact that he had to switch from CD to CD            really does prove the injury. And the Special Master          found that his district would go from percent         Democratic to percent Democratic. I think that that           suffices to prove the injury.                 JUSTICE BREYER: Meese was the case, wasn't        it, about ­­ was that the case involving the ­­                     MR. RAPHAEL: California ­­                JUSTICE BREYER: ­­ supporting a lobbyist?                    MR. RAPHAEL: That was the California       Senator who wanted to show a Canadian film that was           dubbed political propaganda.               JUSTICE BREYER: Yeah, yeah. Political       propaganda. Okay. So it's a harm to reputation. I see               that. All right.                If, in fact, this is a sufficient injury,         the injury that now, the plan will make it harder for me            to be elected, that should give rise to a claim by            Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review virtually every member of the State legislature. And         indeed, if it gives rise to their claim in their hands,           why not in the voters' hands?                              MR. RAPHAEL: Yeah, I ­­      JUSTICE BREYER: You have, in a State like          Virginia, several million people who could attack any        redistricting plan and any variation on any       redistricting plan. That's quite a lot to read into           Meese.             MR. RAPHAEL: Justice Breyer, I don't think         it means that. Forbes has a special justification          because he clearly goes from a safe seat to a seat he is               probably going to lose, and that's why he switched.         Wittman ­­             JUSTICE BREYER: Special because it's more       severe in degree?               MR. RAPHAEL: Yes. I think normal         Article III jurisprudence explains this. Others, like        Wittman, for example ­­               JUSTICE BREYER: There is no case that ­­        the closest you can come is the case of a lobbyist who             is complaining about his reputation.                 MR. RAPHAEL: He wasn't a lobbyist. He was           a State Senator ­­               JUSTICE BREYER: He was a State Senator.         Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review That's fine.              MR. RAPHAEL: ­­ running for re­election,       and I think that case is controlling. I would ­­                                    JUSTICE BREYER: Is there anything better?       MR. RAPHAEL: I think that's the best case.          Take a look at Footnote of the brief that the             government filed in that case.                             JUSTICE BREYER: I did. I ­­         MR. RAPHAEL: The government argued in Meese        v. Keene the damage to reputation isn't ­­ a damage to            candidacy isn't enough because it depends on the actions         of voters and third parties. This ­­ not one Justice           dissented from the holding in Meese v. Keene that injury          to ­­ to candidacy was an adequate Article III injury.          And as I mentioned earlier, Justice Alito's opinion for          the Court in Clapper referred to Meese as standing for          the proposition that it was impairment of political        career.             So we read that case. We looked at what the           government said. We think it gives them standing. Are           we happy about it? Not ­­ no, we don't want officious            intermeddlers to prolong litigation, and maybe they'll       be responsible for the State's attorneys' fees if we ­­         if we have to pay the Plaintiffs' attorneys' fees. But           they ­­ we think they do have standing to maintain their           Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review ­­            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Do ­­ do you think         it's fair to characterize Forbes as an officious        intermeddler?             MR. RAPHAEL: Well, I don't mean to         disparage him in any way. He obviously is a ­­                         CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: The future of his      political career that he's had for years.                    MR. RAPHAEL: That's exactly right, and       that's why I think he has standing and why the Court            should affirm on the merits.                 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.                   Mr. Elias.               ORAL ARGUMENT OF MARC E. ELIAS                 ON BEHALF OF THE PRIVATE APPELLEES                  MR. ELIAS: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it         please the Court:               The State of Virginia has twice decided not        to appeal the decision below. This Court has said in           several occasions, and most recently in Hollingsworth,       that it has never upheld standing of a private party to            defend the constitutionality of a State statute where         the State itself has not chosen to do so.                     This is not the first time that the Court         should venture into this new ground. The fact is that           Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review in ­­ under the American system, voters choose        candidates. They choose their elected officials. It is          not the other way around. I listened intently to the            arguments of counsel, and the fact is, this is not a           question of what they did to Mr. Forbes. It's a           question of what the State of Virginia did to the voters           throughout the Commonwealth, including in the rd       Congressional District, the nd and the th.                   Candidates win and lose elections for all       types of reasons. It is not true that it is conceded            that ­­ that partisan performance is the be­all/end­all        why one wins or loses elections. In fact, the lead           plaintiff ­­ the lead intervenor in this case initially         was Congressman Kantor.               JUSTICE ALITO: Well, I don't want to         impute ­­ impugn in any respect the motives of the          Commonwealth of Virginia, but if it were the case that a           State decided not to defend the Constitution, not to         defend the legality of a districting plan that was          adopted by the legislature, and that decision was made         purely for partisan reasons, you would say that a number           of ­­ that ­­ that an elected official or a candidate            who was severely adversely affected by that should not         be able to challenge it.                 MR. ELIAS: That is ­­ that is correct, Your          Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review Honor. Not every injury in our society opens up the           courthouse door. There are ­­ as the colloquy earlier          discussed, there has to be a legally protected interest.          And members of Congress do not have a legally protected           interest to choose their voters.                 JUSTICE ALITO: What if the ­­ the        decision ­­ and, again, this is not a ­­ I'm not saying             this is about Virginia in this case. But what if it            were the case that that decision was made for a racist            reason?                         MR. ELIAS: I'm sorry. I'm not ­­        JUSTICE ALITO: What if it were made for a          racist decision? What if the reason for not defending          the legality of this ­­ of the districting plan was a           racist reason on the part of the State executive? You           would say that an adversely affected member of Congress         or candidate may not have standing?                  MR. ELIAS: That is correct, Your Honor,        because members of Congress simply don't have a legal          interest in choosing their voters. It's ­­ it's worth          looking at the supplemental briefing and the briefing on         standing in this case to illustrate why the injury here          is not just ­­ not legally protected but is entirely          speculative.             The State of Virginia in their initial       Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review brief, when we were asked to brief the question of          standing, said that there was no particular congressmen        that had standing at that time but that one may soon           reveal themselves. Seven days later they filed a brief           saying they have now revealed him themselves and this ­­         the member withstanding is Congressman Rigell, because       it looks like Congressman Rigell's district is going to         be affected.                A month later the State of Virginia said,       it's not Congressman Rigell. It's Congressman Forbes.                    This Court has said one needs to have        standing at every stage of the proceeding. These         plaintiffs needed ­­ I'm sorry. These Appellants needed         standing at the moment they filed their appeal and at          every stage thereafter.               JUSTICE KENNEDY: If the State had a plan          designed to protect incumbency and it did not do that,          could a ­­ a voter object to the fact that the             incumbency rationale was not followed?                             MR. ELIAS: So ­­    JUSTICE KENNEDY: Can voters assert an       interest in preserving incumbency?                MR. ELIAS: So two ­­ two answers, Your         Honor. Number one is, I don't believe an individual           voter would have anything more than a general grievance.          Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review Number two, it's worth noting, just as a ­­         JUSTICE KENNEDY: So then ­­ so then you                                 have an ­­ an acknowledged interest on the part of this           legislature, but ­­ that the ­­ the fact that the plan           fails to accomplish that, no one ­­ nobody can object?                       MR. ELIAS: Well, it is interesting that in        this case neither the Virginia State House nor the         Virginia State Senate, both of whom are controlled by         the same party as the members of Congress affected,         neither body nor the legislature as a whole has chosen           to intervene in this case, which is quite different         than, for example, in the Arizona case that this Court          handled ­­ resolved where it found ­­                  JUSTICE KENNEDY: Under your view, could the        legislature as a whole intervene?                  MR. ELIAS: I think that the legislature         could have intervened and would ­­ and would have a          better claim to standing again under the ­­ the Arizona          redistricting case that this Court decided.                  JUSTICE KENNEDY: So a legislature who        passes the law has greater standing than the individual         who is affected by the law?                  MR. ELIAS: Well, we are all affected by the          law. I say "we" because I live in the Commonwealth.                         All Virginia voters are affected by the law,        Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review and members of Congress have to ­­ the ­­ the Appellants           in this case have to do better than that. They can't            just say they are affected by the law. They have to            show why they have a legally protected interest as          Justice Kagan ­­              JUSTICE KENNEDY: It sounds to me like it's         incumbency, which is the very thing you say that this          one individual cannot protect. Why can a legislature ­­          a whole legislature say it, but not one legislature. I           don't understand it.               MR. ELIAS: So, Your Honor, one thing I want           to clarify just from the record, it is not the case that            we have conceded nor is it the case that the Court           found, nor are the underlying facts of the case that the           Virginia legislature endeavored to protect incumbents.                  What Mr. Janis said was quite specific. He         did not want to pair incumbents. He did not want to            draw them ­­ their houses out of their districts. That           is quite different than saying that the Virginia        legislature had a policy of protecting incumbents. In          fact, the only way to protect incumbents would have been          to use partisan data or race as a proxy for partisan            data. The second of which would be unconstitutional ­­                     CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Race ­­ you say race         is a proxy. If ­­ and this is why, easily, I think it's                Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review so important. The way you check is to come up with a             district that would achieve the same partisan objectives        without respect to race, and you weren't put to that          test in this case.                MR. ELIAS: Well, Your Honor, I ­­ I think            that that is true in the circumstances in a case such            as ­­ as Cromartie where the evidence, the direct         evidence that race predominated was quite weak. In         fact, it ­­ arguably the direct evidence went the other          way, suggested that politics was what drove ­­ what         drove the map.               And the Court was ­­ was evaluating what do         you do in a circumstance where there is no direct           evidence that race predominated, but you have       circumstantial evidence that maybe it did, maybe it        didn't. And in that case, one way to tease out that ­­            whether it was partisanship or race ­­ is to say, okay,           show me the map that teases that out. In this case, we             have no need to tease it out. It ­­                     CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: No. I mean, it          makes it ­­ I guess you have a greater degree of             confidence if you have an alternative that said, look,         if they wanted partisanship, which is usually a pretty          high priority for politicians, if they wanted       partisanship, they would have done this, but instead        Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review they did this. But if you're not ­­ if you're not            forced to show that, then you have reliance on, you          know, however many quotes you can find, and ­­ and I get             back to the question I asked before. What do you ­­ how              do you analyze it if it's percent race, percent           partisanship and percent who say nothing at all?                     MR. ELIAS: So in this case, Your Honor,         just as a factual matter, it was the person who           sponsored the bill, the person who drew the map.                                             CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Is that Janis?       MR. ELIAS: Janis.    CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: He wasn't in the        legislature when this took ­­ was approved, was he?                     MR. ELIAS: I believe he ­­ I believe he was             at the ­­ at the time that the ­­ that the map was             approved. He was the sponsor of the bill.                     CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, I thought        the ­­ the person who drafted the plan ­­ maybe I've got            that mixed up. It wasn't Janis ­­ was ­­ was not in the              legislature.             MR. ELIAS: Well, Janis says that he ­­ that          he ­­ in fact, I believe said that he in fact drafted             the ­­ we may be talking against each other about the           house ­­ the State house plan versus the ­­ the          congressional plan.  Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review             But in any event, the ­­ the fact is that if           you look at Exhibit , which Mr. Raphael pointed to,          what you see is that Professor McDonald did a very           important calculation. What he looked at is the ­­ the           voters that were added and the voters that were ­­ that           were taken out. And what he found is that the voters            being added were much higher propensity ­­ had a higher           percentage of black voters than they were Democratic.                    So in fact, he found ­­ to use a         colloquialism, he found the blackest parts of the        voters ­­ the voter pool, and added them, and skipped          over white Democratic voters instead. The differential        was about ­. So in fact, there was an analysis that            teased out based on statistics.                 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So you could have ­­        you think you could have drawn a map under Cromartie           that would show if you wanted to protect incumbency or          ­­ and Republican or Democratic advantage, you would        have done this, and instead you did this?                    MR. ELIAS: I don't think that that ­­ that           the ­­ the question is whether we could have drawn a           map. The question is whether or not Cromartie requires,          in a case where ­­ where ­­                   JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, why isn't it the        question where you could have drawn the map another way?          Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review Are ­­ are you saying that you can draw a map only by              using race, then you can't draw the map? Is that your            position? I can see where you could take that position,            but is that what you're saying?                  MR. ELIAS: Yeah. Well, my position is that          as ­­ as Mr. Raphael suggested, the analysis that was          done involved a handful of VTDs. So I ­­ which are              essentially precincts. So we could have potentially        drawn, after that analysis, a district that made very          few changes. But I don't think that that's what           Cromartie had in mind.                  I think Cromartie had in mind a circumstance        where you are not using race as a proxy, and you are             drawing a significantly different district that shows        that race and ­­ that race predominated over        partisanship. Whereas, in this case the use of these          VTDs was to try to get at something different, which was           the intent of what Mr. Janis and the legislature had in           mind.             JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Let's not forget that       there was ­­ counsel, I'm over here ­­ you're skipping          over it. And I'll bet the map might have been slightly            different. It still was going to be different ­­                     MR. ELIAS: Yes, it was ­­                  JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: ­­ if you had not used         Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review MR. ELIAS: Yeah.    JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: That's the whole purpose       race.                         of the exercise, correct?                MR. ELIAS: Correct.                JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: If you're race neutral,       you move people not on the basis of their skin color,           but on some ­­ some neutral principle. And you have           shown that in at least five precincts were moved where          it wasn't on the base of partisanship, it was on the           basis of race.               MR. ELIAS: Yes, Your Honor.                  CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, but if you        moved those districts, then you'd have to move other         districts to make up for ­­ for it. And again, I think              that's what Cromartie does. It says we don't have to           speculate about percent, percent, percent.        What you have to show is that partisanship could not          have been a factor, because you couldn't have drawn it           any differently without affecting partisanship.                 MR. ELIAS: I think that our burden was to           show that race predominated. And I don't think that           Cromartie puts a straightjacket on Miller and Vera to          say that the only way ­­ or Shaw ­­ that the only way             you can do that is through the alternative map.         Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review              CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: If ­­ if race and        partisanship are co­extensive, which one predominates?                  MR. ELIAS: Well, in a case where the          legislature tells you?               CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: No, no. If race and          partisanship are co­extensive, then which one ­­ it's ­­        you may say it's an abstract question that isn't that          the same but doesn't fit these facts ­­ but if that's           the case, which one predominates?                 MR. ELIAS: If ­­ if you had a circumstance           where there was no other evidence other than these two          factors, race and ­­ and partisanship, then essentially        it's a tie, then neither predominates over the other.                      CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: And who loses if        it's a tie?                MR. ELIAS: We would lose ­­ we would lose          if it's a tie, but in this case there is no tie.             There's nothing even approaching a tie. The legislature          set a percent threshold.                  JUSTICE GINSBURG: Suppose the legislature      had set the same number as what was referred to as the            Benchmark Plan. Suppose, instead of making it . they          kept it at ., kept it exactly the same as in the ­­            the prior plan.               MR. ELIAS: Justice Ginsburg, if it was done         Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review as a mechanical threshold, then it would be subject to           heightened scrutiny. The State would have to show that          ­­ that it had met that burden.                   Any time the State sorts people based on        race in a ­­ using mechanical targets or ­­ or           thresholds in a redistricting context, then it has to          show that there was a ­­ a very good reason for doing              so ­­             JUSTICE KAGAN: Is that what you're making        it right on? Do you agree with the Solicitor General           that a simple statement from the line drawers that they           were trying the best they can to comply with the Voting           Rights Act, that that is not sufficient to ­­ to have           strict scrutiny apply?               MR. ELIAS: So I think that this Court in           Alabama made clear that the fact that the State of          Virginia may have been under the mistaken belief ­­ a          good faith mistaken belief ­­ that it had to ­­ that it            had to go to percent ­­                  JUSTICE KAGAN: Yes. No. I got that.                       I'm saying assume a different ­­ a different          set of facts where they weren't just saying we have to           stick at ., or we have to go at . percent.           Assume a different state of facts where line drawers          simply say of course our first priority is to comply          Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review with the law. Do you think that that itself triggers           strict scrutiny?              MR. ELIAS: No, of course not. That's the          Supremacy Clause. So the fact that the ­­ the fact that            the State of Virginia understood it needed to comply         with the Voting Rights Act does not, in and of itself,           trigger ­­             JUSTICE KAGAN: So what you think triggers        strict scrutiny is essentially the use of a mechanical          target here?                          MR. ELIAS: Correct. Correct.      JUSTICE KAGAN: It's not related to the        ability to elect?               MR. ELIAS: Correct. And in fact, if you          look at what Professor Grofman did as the Court ­­ as           the Court's Special Master, you can see he did a very            thoughtful analysis that weighed all of the traditional        redistricting criteria, and then looked at the impact        that it would have on the ability of African­Americans         to elect a candidate of choice. And that is a model of               the kind of analysis that ­­ that the State of Virginia           should have engaged in but didn't.                  Instead, it started with a . It said the           district was .. If we go under ., we are breaking            the law. Let's go to , because that gives us           Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review certainty rather than a lack of certainty. So           percent it is.               CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.                   Mr. Gershengorn.             ORAL ARGUMENT OF IAN H. GERSHENGORN                FOR UNITED STATES, AS AMICUS CURIAE,                        SUPPORTING APPELLEES              MR. GERSHENGORN: Mr. Chief Justice, and may        it please the Court:                I'd like to make two points on the merits,         but I'd like to start where this Court is going to           start, with standing.               We believe that Appellants lack standing to       appeal. Appellants allege that the district court's        judgment may cause them harm by adding voters to the          district of a different political party who may vote          against them. But candidates have no legally­cognizable        interest in the particular composition of the voters in         their district ­­              JUSTICE KENNEDY: Is that ­­ is that true         when the legislature specifically has adopted incumbency       protection as a matter of State law or a matter of State              policy?             MR. GERSHENGORN: So Your Honor, I think if          they had adopted, as a matter of State law, incumbency           Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review protection, that might be different, because then the        legislature would have established that, actually, as a        legally­cognizable right. But that's not what's at        interest here.              And if I could say, Your Honor, what's at ­­          what's at issue here is whether a candidate has an           interest in a particular composition of his voters. And           we think actually Your Honor's own opinion in Lulac is          quite instructive on this.                What Your Honor said in Lulac, if you'll        recall, is Congressman Bonilla had alleged that the        allegation was that the Latino voters there were no         longer voting for Congressman Bonilla, and that was why         they redistricted.              And what you ­­ what your opinion for the         Court said there was that that kind of voter protection,          which is for the candidate and not for ­­ not for the            individual voter, is fine for the realm of politics, but          it did not justify the ­­ could not justify the action           there to save it for Section . That's the same point.                        JUSTICE BREYER: That's the area District ,        District in the State which is heavily         African­American and so imagined racist legislatures      changed the whole district so they couldn't possibly        elect an African­American. Does the African­American       Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review member of Congress have standing to contest that?                    MR. GERSHENGORN: So a voter would have         standing to contest it. A candidate would have standing           to contest it if he or she were a voter in the district.              I think under Hays, that ­­                             JUSTICE BREYER: And as a congressman, not.         MR. GERSHENGORN: As a congressman, I think          not, at least this Court has not said. But remember,           what we have here is a quite different situation where           you have a candidate ­­                 JUSTICE BREYER: No, I know it's different,         but what I'm looking for throughout is the ­­ I          understand that there has been no case which discusses         this ­­ that I've been able to find. They have the            Meese case, which is in a different context, but why is            that different? And what's bothering me about it, which          ­­ I don't want you to just say I'm right; I want you to                explain why, if I a.m., or why I'm wrong ­­ is that             there are potentially dozens of remedial plans and there         are hundreds of possible plans for a State, and every           plan will hurt someone. And if one district in a State             is changed, suddenly you open the door to every         legislature and every Congressman from every other       district challenging the plan.                That strikes me as a big shift in the          Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review direction of taking power from the legislature and        turning it over to the judges as to what kind of           districting plan you're going to have, and a mess to           boot.                                     MR. GERSHENGORN: Your Honor ­­     JUSTICE BREYER: That's what's worrying me.       MR. GERSHENGORN: And I think you're right         to be worried about it, and I ­­                    JUSTICE BREYER: Well, I knew you thought I          would be, given your comments.                 (Laughter.)             why.             MR. GERSHENGORN: Now I'm going to tell you         See ­­ but I ­­ and I do think there are a              couple of responses to that. I mean, we do normally            rely, in that instance, on the State to be the principal           defender. But when the State is not there, what this           Court recognized in Hollingsworth is often that means        that the ­­ the bill goes undefended, and that's not          something that concerns the Court.                 Now, the reason why we have to be very         careful about legislators and why choosing their own ­­        I think, as plaintiffs' counsel said, we don't usually         let legislators choose their own ­­ choose their own         voters, and there is good reason for that. That's not           Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review the way the system is supposed to work. And I do think              it would have quite expansive effects. It's not clear          to us there is a huge difference between this kind of            line­drawing and a challenge; for example, that a         legislator might seek to appeal the relocation of a base           or a university in his or her district on the grounds            that that would radically change the number of        Republican or Democratic voters in the district.                   We do think Meese is ­­                 JUSTICE KAGAN: But if you ­­ yeah, I ­­ I'm            sorry. I ­­                MR. GERSHENGORN: I was just going to say          that we think Meese is very different, because Meese is          not about choosing the voters in the district. It's          about ­­ we're not saying that you don't have an injury           ­­ Article III harm from a harm to reelection. We are             saying that you don't have an interest in vindicating         that right through a ­­ through choosing the voters in           your district.              I'm sorry, Your Honor.                JUSTICE KAGAN: I guess I find this a little             bit harder than you just suggested, because this is not          Representative Forbes saying, I want to choose exactly         the set of voters that's going to increase my own          electoral chances. This is Representative Forbes       Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review saying, look, there has been an act of the legislature,          and the ­­ the act of the legislature has given me a            certain set of voters, and why don't I have a legally             cognizable interest in relying on that legislative       judgment when some court has taken it away?                    MR. GERSHENGORN: Your Honor, I think it's         for the same reason that this Court rejected that idea          in the ­­ in Hays itself. There isn't a ­­ a ­­ a                cognizable interest among the voters or among the        candidates in just seeing that a ­­ a lawfully           legislated districting plan is enacted. Otherwise, I        think every voter in the State would have standing,         because the legislature said, you should be in this         district, you should have a fair opportunity to vote.          But that's not the direction the Court has gone.                     And I do think that the combination of ­­         viewing the office as, one, that the officeholder gets         to choose the constituents, and the potentially broad        impact of that is one that should give this Court some           pause. And particularly ­­ again, just to pick up on           what plaintiffs' ­­ plaintiffs' counsel, Mr. Elias, was        saying ­­ I think, particularly in a situation where you            have a State statute, in this Court's observation in          Hollingsworth, it would be quite unusual, I think, to          find standing here.   Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review             If I could switch over to the merits very          quickly, a couple of ­­ a couple of points.                         I wanted to start with the observations of       Justice Kennedy and Justice Kagan on the       could­have, would­have standard that Mr. Carvin has ­­       has put forth, which, as I understand it, is basically,           the district is okay even if based on race as long as it             could have been drawn on the basis of politics or would           have been. We think that really flies in the face of            the Shaw and Miller line of cases, that what those cases           are about at core are two principal things: That you           can't use race as a proxy, and you can't sort voters on             the basis of race. And when you do that, it is not a              defense to say, well, I could have done the same thing            on the basis of politics. You can send it back. If the              legislature, in fact, does the same thing, taking race         out of the equation, then fine. The injury that the           Shaw line of cases was designed to get at is eliminated.           It is precisely the sorting. And so I think the            would­have or could­have test that Mr. Carvin has put         forward is really quite at odds with ­­ with the ­­ with            this Court's jurisprudence.               CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But, I mean, people         have objected to some extent that Cromartie cut back on          Shaw and Miller as well, and again, I just ­­ I, at             Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review least, would feel on much more solid ground if the          plaintiffs had been put to the test of saying, show us.           They say this isn't about partisanship; this is about         race. Okay. Show us. You draw the district that would             protect the partisanship interest that's going to be        different. And yet the ­­ the lower court did not           subject them to that inquiry.                 MR. GERSHENGORN: So, Your Honor, we think        Cromartie is a very important case, but it actually is           quite the ­­ the exact opposite of the situation here.                      We think Cromartie is the situation in which        the legislator ­­ there was direct and substantial        evidence that the legislature acted on the basis of         politics, and statistics were put forward that said it's         equally explained by race. And what this Court said,          and we think it was sensible, is there's basically a          thumb on the scale for politics at that point, to give           the State legislatures their room.                 But in a situation like this, where there is          direct and substantial evidence that race was at issue,         that same evidence that it's equally consistent with        politics just doesn't cut it. That ­­                   CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, okay, if there        is evidence that race is at issue. I will give you a              chance to answer the question I asked each of the           Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review others. I wouldn't want to deprive you of that           opportunity.             (Laughter.)             CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But you're looking       to see whether race was the motive. What do you do if,             as I said, you know, say yes, say something else,             and don't say anything? How can you say that the            motive of the legislature was ­­ was this or that?                      MR. GERSHENGORN: So, Your Honor, I think ­­         it's obviously a difficult question, but I would say two            things on that.               First is, this Court's cases have been       fairly unanimous in looking to the ­­ to the intent of           the drafter. That's what they look to, for example, in           Bush v. Vera. And in Alabama, this Court had a policy,             and it didn't look to see whether each of the          legislators individually had embraced that policy. That        was something that the Court accepted. So I think there            is a long line of case law going that way.                       And second, of course, it's not solely the        intent of the drafter here. There are objective         indicators, which this Court has indicated in both Shaw         and Miller are extremely important, things the Court        looks to ­­ the traditional redistricting factors, such        as contiguity, compactness, are counties being split ­­       Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review that reinforce that kind of intent. And those are          things that are open, that ­­ that are ­­ are part of            the plan that was enacted by all of the legislature.          And here ­­              JUSTICE ALITO: What if the drafter or other         members of the legislature say, race was our first         consideration, and by that, what we mean is that we have           to take race into account under the Voting Rights Act,          and that's what we've done? Would that ­­ what would be            the ­­ what would be the result there?                    MR. GERSHENGORN: So, Your Honor, I don't         think that that necessarily results in strict scrutiny.        What this Court has said over and over is that the ­­           that race must predominate. The mere intentionally ­­        or consciousness of race, or even the intentional use of          race, is not sufficient.                And we think that makes sense, because as        the Court has said, the redistricters are always        conscious of race and always aware of race, and that the           State legislatures need room and ­­ need room to         maneuver. And so the mere ­­ the mere fact that you're            conscious of race or even that race ­­ you intentionally          use race is not sufficient by itself to have strict          scrutiny.             CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.       Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review             Mr. Carvin, you have four minutes remaining.                REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF MICHAEL A. CARVIN                     ON BEHALF OF THE APPELLANTS                 MR. CARVIN: I'd like to begin with Justice         Kagan's questions.              We've heard a constant theme that if it was          done because of race, a post hoc political explanation          doesn't justify it ­­ I fully agree with that ­­ with a             mixed motive case here. That's what the district court          said: Race, politics, and incumbency protection. And         the only reason that race was, quote, "ranked higher"         was because he said that it was a Federal mandate under            the Supremacy Clause. So if that's not a justification,           they committed legal error.                If you turn to a, why was politics and         incumbency subordinate? They told you: Because that,         quote, "goal was permissive and subordinate to the        mandatory criteria of compliance with the VRA." Now,         they said that they implemented it by not reducing the          benchmark BVAP, but that had nothing to do with the rank           ordering of VRA over these other things.                   To get to your question: If two ­­                    JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, I take the point,         Mr. Carvin, but isn't that really exactly what we         confronted in Alabama, which is ­­ you know, the number          Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review one priority was the VRA, but then it turned out that           they had misunderstood the VIA, so it turned out that          the number one priority was a racial quota, which had           nothing to do with the way the VRA is really supposed to            operate?             MR. CARVIN: That's fine, and that goes to         narrow tailoring, but what we are trying to figure out          here is whether or not there is a prima facie case.                        Now, assume with me that in of the         districts in Alabama, race was completely coextensive.       They didn't assert politics, but with county lines.        Would you ever say that race predominated over something         or subordinated something when they are entirely       coextensive?             Let's take it out of the racial context.        Compactness is number two; county lines are number        three. You draw a nice, compact district that complies           with county lines. No one in their right mind would say            "compactness predominated over county lines" because the       same result was ordained by these two motives. And you           can search this opinion for any finding that race was          inconsistent with or subordinated incumbency protection      or politics, and you won't find it.                   Therefore, they haven't made their basic      burden of showing that traditional districting      Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review principles were subordinated nor their specific      Cromartie II burden of showing it was subordinated to         race rather than politics. The only evidence that they          have even tried to come up with at the last minute is            Joint Appendix . This is the VTDL analysis done by           McDonald.             It is undisputed that it has exactly the        same flaws that this Court rejected as a matter of law            in Cromartie II. Why? Because the racial effect is           identical to the political effect. He made a big deal            about the fact that there was a . percent gap between            the VTDs in District and those outside of District            in terms of race. But what his own index shows on JA              is there was also a percent gap in Democratic            percentages. So it's exactly the same flaw that was at           issue in Cromartie II is here.                  So unless this Court is prepared to allow        district courts to engage in naked defiance of the plain          language and holding of Cromartie II, this case needs to          be reversed.              As to your direct evidence point, Justice       Kagan, what was the direct evidence in Cromartie II?         Partisan and racial balance. The Court said as clear as           possible since he said partisanship and race, it says         little or nothing about the relative predominance. What         Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review do we have here? Incumbency protection, politics and         race. Therefore the direct evidence says little or         nothing about the relative predominance. What you need         to do is to show that they could have accomplished their           legitimate political objectives in some other way.                   As to standing, I've heard the slogan       repeated by all of my opponents, "voters choose        representatives not vice versa." That's a lovely         slogan. But the relevant point here is that State          legislatures choose which districts those voters go       into, not the Federal judiciary.                 If, as you must assume, the Federal       judiciary has exceeded its proper role and created a         system which dramatically hurts the incumbents who were        designed to be protected by this law, how can they not           have a legally cognizable injury­in­fact?                                          CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.       The case is submitted.    (Whereupon, at : a.m., the case in the        above­entitled matter was submitted.)    Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review Official ­ Subject to Final Review: :, : :, : : : : :, : : : : Alito's : allegation : appealing : articulates Arizona : : Article : : : adjacent : : allege : alleged : : : : : : : appearance : : ASARCO : :, : allegedly :, APPEARAN... allow : : : : appears : asked : : : : : alteration : Appellant : asking : : adding : addition : address : adequate : : adjective : adjust : administration :, admit : adopted : :, advantage : :, : : adverse : :,, : : : altered : : alternative : :, : : amended : Amendment adversely : : : American : affiliation : : : : affirm : affirmatively amicus : : : ample : amply : affirmed : analogy : African­Amer... analysis : : : :, : : : analyze : :, : :,, African­Amer... :, : agenda : agree : : announce : : :, answer : A a.m : : : : : abandoning : abilities : ability : :, able : : : : above­entitled : : absence : absolute : absolutely : : abstract : accept : : : accepted : accepting : : accomplish : : accomplished : : account : : : achieve : : achieves : achieving : acid :, acknowledged : act : : : : : : :, : acted : action : : : actions : added : :,, Appellants : : :, : : : :, : assert : : : asserting : assess : Appellees :, assume : : : : : :, : : :, :, : : : : Appendix : :, : attached : : : : attack : : applies : apply : applying : approaching : attacking : attacks : attorney : attorneys' : : approved : average : : area : arguably : argue : : : : : argued : : avowed : aware : B B : back :,, :, : : : :, balance : ball :, ballot : banking : base : : based :, : ahead : aim :,, air : : AL :, Alabama : : : : :, : : : : Alito :, :, : : :, arguing : : :, : : argument : : : answers : :,,,, :, : ante : : : anybody : anymore : : : : : apologize : : : : : : : : appeal :, arguments : basic : Alderson Reporting Company Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review : breaking : : basically : : candidate : : : :, : : candidates : : : : : :, : : :, : : be­all/end­all Brennan : basis : : Breyer :, : :, :, : :, : :,, :,, :,,, : :, : :, :, beginning : behalf :, : :,, : : : : : : belief :, believe :, : :, : : benchmark : : : : : benefited : benefits : best : : : : bet : better : : : big : : bill :, : bit : black : : : : black­majority : blackest : C body : : Bonilla :, C : : calculation : boot : bothering : California : boundaries : : brand­new : Brat :,, Canadian : candidacy : : : :, : : : : changed : : : : : changes : : : :, : chance : :,,, chances : :, : : :, :, : : :, :, : : : :, : change : :, : :, : : :,, : :, :,, : :,, :,,, :,,, : : : :, : :, : : : : : :, cases : : : :, : :, : : characterize : : : check : Chief :, : changing : : : : briefing : briefly : bring : broad : Brown :, bump : burden : : : : : : : : capacity : cared : career : : : careful : brief : :, carefully : Carolina : Carvin : : : :,,, :, :, :, : : : :, :,, :, : :, : : :, :,,, :,, :,,, : :, :,, :, : : : :,,, CD : : :, CD : : :, CD : :, :, :,, :, : certainly : :, : : : :, : : :,, : : : :, case : : :,, : : : : : :, : : : : : : : : : :, : : : : : : :, : : caused : caution : Bush : but­for : : : : : : : certainty : : :, BVAP : : certain : campaigns : causation : cause : Alderson Reporting Company challenge : challenging : : : : :, :, : : :, :, : : :, :, : : :, : : : :, : :, : : : : : choice : choose :, : :, : : :, choosing : : :, chose : chosen : : circumstance : : : Official ­ Subject to Final Review circumstances : : comes : circumstantial : : confidence : :, : comma : conflict :,, claim :, : : : : : claiming : Clapper : clarify : : : classic : Clause : : : clear : : : :, : : : : : : : comments : conflicting commit :, : : : committed : : confronted : confronting : Commonwealth :, : confusion : compact :, Congress : :,, :, : :,, : : : compactness congressional : : : : :, compared : complaining : :, : : : : congressman : : : :, :, : correct : : :, : cores : : contesting : context : : : : : : : : contiguity : contiguous : continue : contrary : control : controlled : controlling : controversy : :, :,, : : : : : :, : :, : :, : : :, :,,, : :, : : : : :, : : :, :, : :, : : : : :, : : :, : :,, :, : :,, :, : :,, could­have : court's : : : : : : : : : : : :, : :, converted : core :, : correlates : : : counsel : : : : : : : : : counties : countless : courthouse : courts : create : : created : : :, complicated : clear­error : complaint : clearly : completely : : : : : : : closest : co­extensive compliance : coextensive : : :, cognizable complies : comply : : :, :, : : :, complying : : :, composition : :,, : :, : : : conceded : : : : congressmen : : conscious : : consciousness consequences : : consideration : considered : : consistent : country : counts : constant : constituents county : : : :,,, critical :, criteria : : : : : : coincides : : colloquialism : colloquy : color : combination : conceivable : Constitution concerned : concerns : concluded : concluding constitutional :, : : : : constitutionali... conclusion : : couple : :, course : : : : court :, come : : : : : conduct : consultant : contest :,, : :,, : : : Alderson Reporting Company : Cromartie : : :, :, : : : :, : : :, : :, Official ­ Subject to Final Review :,,, : demanded : demanding curiae : : : : democracy current : cut : : Democrat : Democratic : : : : : : :,, :, : : : direction : : D D : D.C :,,, Daggett : damage : : directly : disabled : : : : :, : : :, disagree : :,, : : disappears : demonstrates : data :, Davis : days : de : deal : decided :, deprive : Department : : : : depends : discern : discriminated : discrimination : : : decision : : :, : defend : : :, : :, :, : defendants :,, : : : :, : discussed : discusses : deprived : Deputy : dismantle : describing : dismantled : disparage : designed : disrupts : dissented : distinction difference : : : : : :, : distinctions : : : : :, :, : :, : : :, :, : : draw : : : : : : : : :, :,, :, : : : : : : drawer : :, : drawers : :,, :,, :,, :,,, : : : : : :, : drawing : drawn : :, : : :, : : : : drew : driving : dropped : : districting : : : : : : : E : :, : drops : : districts :, drove :, dubbed : E earlier : : : : : : : : : : :, : : : : : :, :, : :,,, easier : : :, easiest : : :, easily : : : doctrine : documentary Easley : Ed : effect : : : defendant : different : : defended : : :, defender : defending : differential :, : : defense : : defiance : defied : definition : degree : : : differently : difficult : : : difficulty : diminish : diminishes : Delegates : diminution : : : direct : :, : : : : : district :, :,,,,, :,,, : : :,,, :,,, :, :, doing : : :,,, : :,,, :, : :,,, : DOJ : : :,,, :, : door : : :,, : :, :, : :,,, :, : :,,, dramatic : :, : dramatically dozens : drafted :, drafter :, : :, : doom : : : : : :, effects : : elect :, : elected : :, : : : :, election : : : elections :, electoral : Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review : : expert's : : explained : : : : establish : experts : explain : Electronic : essentially : Elias : : :,, : :, established :, : : : :, : ET :, : :, :, : evaluating : explains : :, :, :, : :,, : :, : : eliminate : eliminated explanation : : extent : extraordinary event : everybody : : :, : : : evaluate : :, extremely : : eliminates : embraced : eminently : employment : enacted : : : : : endeavored : engage : : engaged : entered : entire : entirely : : : : entity :, equal : equally : evidence : : : :,, :, : : :, : : :,, :,,,, : :, :, : :, : evil : exact : : exactly : :, : : : : :, example : : : : : : : exceeded : exception : excuse : executive : exercise : exercises : : :, equation : error :,, Exhibit : :,, : : : : : ESQ :,, : :,,, : existing : exodus : expansive : expert :, : :, fails : fair : : : fairly : faith : falsely : Federal : : : :, : : :, feel : fees :, figure : : filed : : : filing : fill : film : find : : : : : : : : : : : finding : : : : fine : : : : finish : first : : :, : : : : : fit : Fittings : five :, : followed : Footnote : Forbes :,, :,,, :, : : : : : : :, forced : : forget : form : formulation : forth : forward : : found :,, : : : : :, : : : :,, four : : Fourteenth : frankly : FTC : fully : further : future : : G G : game :, gap :, general : : : : : generally : gerrymandered flaw : flaws : : flies : floor : : gerrymanderi... :, : : : :, : :, Gershengorn :, : :, : : : : :,, : F face : : : facie : facing : fact : : : : : : : :, : :, : : : : :, : :, : :,, : : : facto : :, factor : : : : : : : factors : : : facts :, : : :, factual :, :, : failed : Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review : :,, : : : : : : greater : : heard : : heavily : : grievance : heightened : high : : IAN : : higher : : : hypothetical : : :, : : I idea : identical : identification :, II :, : : : : :,,, III : : : illustrate : imaginable : imagined : impact : : impairment : impermissible : implausible : implemented : implicit : important : : : : : : : imposed : imposes : impossible : improper : : impugn : impute : inarguably : : included : : including : inconsistent : : increase : incumbency : : : : : :, : : : : :,, : : :, : : : : incumbent : : : : :,, :, : incumbents : : : : :,,, : :, :, : index : indicated : indicators : individual : : : : individually : initial : initially : injunction : : injured :, injured­in­fact : : : injuries : injury : :, : : : :, : :, : :,,, Ginsburg : Grofman : :, : : : : : :, : Gross : ground : : give : : grounds : : : : :, guess : : : given :, : : : H heinous : held : : : :, : highlighted : highly : : hijack : hijacking : : : Hollingsworth : : : gives : : half :, : holding : H : : : hoc : : : : :,, half­accurate : GLORIA : go : : : : :, : handful : handled : : : hands :, : : :, : happen : : : hamper : hampers : Honor : : : : :, :, : : : : : : :, : : : : : : happens : happy : happened : goal : goes : : happening : : : going : : : : : : :,, : harder : : : : : : : : : : : :, : : : : harmed : :, harm : : : :, houses : huge :, : : Honor's : host : house : : :, : :, good : : : : :, : government :,, governmental : great : harmless : :, harms :, : Hayes : Hays : : : Healthy : hear : hundreds : hurt :,, : : : hurting : : hurts :,, : hypothesized Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review :, : : judiciary : : :, : :, jurisprudence : : : Kennedy's :, : : :, :,, : : : : :, : :, : :,, :, : : :, : :, :,, kept :, :, : key : : :, : : killed : :, :, kind : :, : :, : : :, :, : : : :, : :, : :, : : :, : : : : : : : kinds : justifying : knew : know : : : : : : : :, : : : : : : knows : L label : labelled : lack : : : land : language : : : Larios : Latino : Laughter : : : law : :, : : :, : :,,, : :, :, : : : : injury­in­fact : : :,, :,, : : : : injustice : inquiry : : : insisted : insistent : instance : : instructive : insufficient : insulate : intensely : intent : :, : intentional : intentionally :, intently : interest :,, :, : :,, :,, : : : : :,, : : : : :, : :, : interesting : interests : interference : :, intermeddler : : intermeddlers : interpretation : : intervene : : :, intervened : : intervenor : : Intervenors : invalidated : invasion : invidious : invoked : involved : : : involving : ipso : : : irretrievably : issue : : :, :, : :, : issues : J J : JA : Janis : :,,, : Janis's : January : John : : Joint : :, : : : : Jones : Jones's : Judge :, judges : : judgment : K :, : justification : : justify : Justice : : :, :, :,,,, :, : :,,,, : :, :,,, : : :,, :,,, : :, :,,, :, : :,,, :, : :, : :, : Kagan :, :, : :,, :, :, : :, : :, :, : : : :,, :,,, : :, :,,, :, : :, : :,, : :, :, :, : :, :,, :, : :, :, : : :,,, : : :,,, :, :, Kagan's :, :, : : :, Kantor : Karcher : :,, Keene : :,, :,,, : :, :, : keep : : :,, : :, Kennedy :, :, : :, : : : :, :,, : Alderson Reporting Company :, : : : lawfully : : lawyer : lead :, led : legal :, : : : legality : : legally :,, : : : :, legislatures : : : : legitimate : : : let's : : : :, : :, : : : : : :, : limited : :,,, Limits : : :, :, : :, : : : line : : :, : : :, : legally­cogniz... line­drawing Official ­ Subject to Final Review : : : mapdrawers mere :, : : looking : : : : :, March : MARC : : merits : : : : : : looks : : margin : mess : lose : : margins : met : :, loses : : : lost : lot : : : : : lovely : low : : lower : : mean : : Master : : : matter : MICHAEL : :, : : Miller : :, : :, : :,, : : million : mind :, : : :, : minimis : : McDonald minor : minute : : : : : : : : : : : : : : minutes : : mistaken : : misunderstood meaning : meaningful : mixed : means : : : : : meant : : model : moment : Monday : : : legislated : legislative : : legislative­dra... : legislator : : : legislator's : legislators : : :, : legislature : :, : : : : : : : : : : : : :, :,, :,,,, :, : :,, : : : : :,, : lowest : Lulac :, M : lines : : :, : mail­in : :,,, maintain : list :, listened : litigation : majority­black majority : : :, majority­min... : : little : : : live :, : lived : lives :, lobbyist : :, : :, mechanical : month : : moot : : : majority­white Meese :, Morgan : : making : : : : : : : :,, : : motivated : : :, motivates : : :, : : :,, : : motivation : motivating : long : : mandate : longer : look : : mandatory : : : : : : :, map : : : : : : : :, looked : : : : :, : : :, : :, : : : : meet : maneuver : member : mantra : : : : : members : :, : : : mentioned : : :, : motivator : motive :, :, : :, : motives : : Mount : Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review move : : : :, moved : : : multimember : N N :, : naked : narrow :, : near : necessarily : need : :, : : note : noting : nuisance : number : : : : : : : : : :,, O O : : object : : :, : objected : :,, : : : : : :, : objective : : : : : observation objectives :, needed : : :, : observations needs : : : okay : : : : : : : : : : : : : :, old :,, once : : palpable : part :, : : : particular : : : : : : ones : :, particularly : : :, open : : parties : opens : operate : opinion : : partisan :, : : : : :, : : : : : :, : opponents : opportunity : : : : opposite : oral : :,, : : : : : : :, : : : : : :, : : :,,, : :, :,,, :,,, : :, :, : : :,, :,, : :, : :, percent­black : percent­BVAP : percentage : : : percentages : : partisanship : : :, : :, : : :, perfect : performance : :, : :, :,, : : : parts : party : : : : : passes : pause : pay : Payne's : pending : people : : : : : :,, : : :, : : : : : : percent : :,, :,, : performing : : permissive : person : :, : :,, personal : Personhuballah : : pick : picked : picture : pie : plain : plaintiff : :, : :, : plaintiff's : : : : negative : neighbor : neither :, : neutral : : : :, never : : : : : : : : new :, :, : : : : nice : nonelection : normal : : obtaining : ordained : obvious : order : : obviously : : : : : :, : : : : :,, :, : : : : : ordering : orders : outcome : occasions : occupants : odd : odds : offering : office :, : : officeholder : official : officials : officious : : : : outside : : override : overturned : P P : page : : :, : :, : pair : paired : normally : Oh : Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review : : :, : Professor : : :, : : propaganda :,, prolong : premise : predominates predominating politicians : politics :, :, :, : : :,, : :, : :, prepared : propensity : : : :, : :, : presence : : :, presented : : : pool : population : preservation : protect : :, : : preserve : proper : prerogatives : : : : proposition : : position : : :, : : :,, possible : : : preserved : : preserving : : pretty : : : :, : : : protected : : :, : : : protecting : : possibly : post : potentially : primarily : primary : : : previously : protection : : : : prima : : : : : :, : : : prove : principal : : : power : : practical : precincts : : puts : : : : Q question : : : : : :, : :, : :, : : : : :, : : :,, : : : : questions : : : : quibble : quick : quickly : quietly : quite : : : :, : : : : : : : quo :, : R R : race : :, :,,, :,, : :, : : : : :, : : :, : :, : : :, plaintiffs : : :,, : : : : : : plaintiffs' : :, : : :, plan :,, : :,, : : : : :, : : : : :, : :, :, : : : plans : : : plausible : please : : : : plucked : point : : : : : : : : : : : points : : : : policy : : :, political : : :, : : :, : : : : :, : :, : : : : : : pointed : : precisely : : : : : preclear : preclearance principle : : principles : : : prior : : :, proved : : quota : quote : proxy :, : :, : :, :, : quotes : : : : :, : priority : : purely : :, : purpose : : :, precleared :, : predominance : : predominantly : private : : :, probably : problem : : predominate proceeding : : predominated process : : : : : : purposes : :, pursuing : pushed : put : : : : :, : Alderson Reporting Company politically­ben... : :, : Official ­ Subject to Final Review re­election : : : : : :,, : : : : : : :, : :, :, : :,,, :,,, :,, : :,,, :,,, : :,, :,,, read : : :,, :,, :,, :,, : Reagan : reality : : : really : re­emphasize : : redistricting : : : : : : :, : : : : :, : :,, : : :, representatives : : represented : : representing reduced : reducing : reduction : reelected : Republican : : : : : : : : Republicans : : : : reelection : referred : : : referring : refers : reinforce : rejected : race­conscious : racial : : : : : :, : :, : :, :, racially : racially­discri... : : : : : : : :, : : : realm : realteration : related : rearranges : relative : reason :, : :,, : :, : : reputation : :, : : : requirement : :, : requires : resolved : : respect : : : : : respectfully : responses : responsible : result : : : results : : : relevance : relevant : : : : reliance : relocation : rely : : relying : remain : remaining : remand : remedial : : : : : remedy : remember : racist : : reasonably : : :, : : radically : rain :, rank : ranked : : reasons : :, REBUTTAL : : recall : recognition : Raphael : recognize : : :,,, recognized : : :, :,, : :, : : : :, : record : : :, :, : :, :, : : :, : : redistricted : rationale : re­elected : redistricters : :, : : : reveal : revealed : recognizes : reversed : recognizing : remotely : Richmond : repeated : repeatedly : report : : :, : representative Rigell :, Rigell's : right : : : : : : : :, : : :, Alderson Reporting Company :,, : :, : : : : : : : : : : :, :,, : : : : : : : : : rightly : rights : : : : : :, : : : : rise : : ROBERT : ROBERTS : :, : : :, : :, :,,, :, : :, : : :, : : : :, : : : : : : : role :, : room : :, route : rule :, : :, : :, :, : ruled : rules : : Official ­ Subject to Final Review :, : : :, : : : :, sort : : sorts : Sotomayor : showed :, sorting : showing : : : : : shown : shows : : : : : :,,,, : :, :, : :,, :, : : :, : :, signal : significant send : sending : : : sense : : significantly : similarly : simple : : : : simplest : set : :, simply : : : : : : : : : seven : : sit : : : severe : : : : : severely : : : Shaw : : situated : situation : : : :,, skin : skipped : skipping : :, : slightly : :,, slogan :, smaller : : Smith : society : Shelby : shift : shifted : shifts : short : : show :, :, : :, : :, : : : : : : : : : : sole : solely : Solicitor : : : : solid : somebody : sounds : : South : sovereign : sovereign's : special : : : : :, : specific : : specifically : speculate : speculative : spend : spent : split : :, : : splits :,, splitting : sponsor : :, : sponsored : stage :, stake : : standard : : : :, : : run :, : :, : : run­of­the­mill : running : : : : runs : : : : :, seeing : seek : : segregate : : : segregation : Senate :, : : Senator : S S : : safe : save : saying : : : : : sensible : : : sentence : :, : separate : : :, served :, : :, : : says : : : : : : : : scale : scenario : scintilla : Scott : scrutiny : :, : : :, :, :, :, search : searching : seat :, second :, : : secondarily : secondary : : Section : : see : : : : : :, : : : :, :,, :, : : :, :, : : :, :,, : : : start : : : : started : state : : :, :, :,, :, : :,,, :,, :, : : :, :, : :,,, :, : :, : :, : : :, : : : State's : : : : statement : : statements : : States :,, : : : : : statistical : statistics : : : status :, : standing : : soon : sorry : : : : : : statute : : Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review statutory : stick : straight : straightjacket : strict : :, : : :, : :, :, strikes : strongly : STUART : : : subject : : submission : submitted : : subordinate :, sum : summarily : summary : : supplemental : supported : supporting : : : : : supports : : Suppose : : supposed : : : supremacy : : : : Supreme :, :, subordinated sure : : : : surely : : :, surmise : :, suspect : substantial : substantially : : :, Swann : swaps :, switch : : switched : sworn : suddenly : sues : suffer : suffered :, :, : : suffices : sufficient : : : :, suggest : suggested : : : suggesting : :, suggests : suing : :, system : : : : T T :, tailoring : : : take :,, : :, : : : : : taken : : talk : : : talking : : : : : : target : targets : tautological : tease :, teased : teases : tell : : tells : : Term : terms : test : : : : : Thank : : : : : theme : theory : thicket : thing : : : :, things : : : : :, : : think : : : : : : :, :, :, : : : :, : :,, :, : : : :, : : :, : : :, : : :, :,, :,, : :,,, :, : :, : : :, third : Thornton : thought :, :, : : : thoughtful : threat : three : threshold : : : thresholds : thumb : tie :,, :, time : : : : : : : : : times : today : : told : tool : top : toss­up : total : traditional : : : : : treated :, trial : : :, : tried : trigger : : triggered : : triggering : triggers : :, true : : : : : : : trump : try : trying : : : turn : : turned : :, turning : turns : twice : : two : : : : :, : : :, : : : : : : :, type : types : UUh­huh :ultimate :unanimous:unconstitutio... : :: :undefended:underlying:understand :: :: :: ::understanding:understood ::undisputed :Alderson Reporting Company : : : : : : : violations : violative : : : : unelected : Virginia : : : United :,, : : : : :, : : : :,, :, : :, university : unusual : unusually : upheld : use :,,, : : : : : : : : :, usually : : V Virginia's : : virtually : : Vogel : vote : : : voter :, : :, : :, :, : v : : : :, : : :, voters :, : : : :, : Va : validated : variation : vast : venture : Vera : : :, : :, : : :, :, : : :,,,, : :, :, : :,,, :, : :, : versa : versus : vice : view : : : viewing : vindicating : violate : violated : violates : violation : : : voters' : votes : voting : : : :, : : : : : : voting­age : VRA :, :, : : VTDL : Official ­ Subject to Final Review VTDs :, well­recognized yield : : W want : : : :, : : : : : : :,, :, : : wanted : : : :, : : wants :, : : Washington : :,, wasn't :,, : went : weren't : : white :, : : : win : : wins : withstanding : witness : Wittman : : : : :, won :, : word : words : work : workable : worried : worry : Z : :, :, : : :, :, : : : : : : : : ­ : : : : : : ­year : . : , : : : : : :, : : :, : worrying : water : way : : : :, would­have worse : : ­ : worst : : : : :, worth : : :, : : : : : : : : : : : : : nd : : : : wrong :,, : :, : : : : wrongly : :, : : : : wouldn't : : : x :, X : :, : :, :,, : : :, : :, Y ways : : We'll : we're : : yeah :, : :, :, : : : : :, :,, : : we've :, : : : weak : weighed : years : : : : : : : a : :, : rd : Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review : : : : : : : : : : : R : : : : : :, : : : : : , : : : : , : th : : :, : : : :, : : : : : . : : :, :, : : : :, : : :, : : :, :,, : : : : : . : . : : : : : : : : : , :, , : : : , : Alderson Reporting Company 