Official         IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES       ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ x                                  TIMOTHY LEE HURST,                   :             Petitioner                : No. ­         v.                          FLORIDA.                           : : ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ x                                                         Washington, D.C.                         Tuesday, October ,                  The above­entitled matter came on for oral       argument before the Supreme Court of the United States         at : a.m.   APPEARANCES: SETH P. WAXMAN, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf of            Petitioner. ALLEN WINSOR, ESQ., Solicitor General,      Tallahassee,    Fla.; on behalf of Respondent.     Alderson Reporting Company Official                                    C O N T E N T S ORAL ARGUMENT OF                                      PAGE SETH P. WAXMAN, ESQ.       On behalf of the Petitioner                           ORAL ARGUMENT OF   ALLEN WINSOR, ESQ.      On behalf of the Respondent                           REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF   SETH P. WAXMAN, ESQ.        On behalf of the Petitioner                            Alderson Reporting Company Official                                       P R O C E E D I N G S                                            (: a.m.)              CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument       next in Case No. ­, Hurst v. Florida.                    Mr. Waxman.               ORAL ARGUMENT OF SETH P. WAXMAN                    ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER                 MR. WAXMAN: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it         please the Court:               Under Florida law, Timothy Hurst will go to        his death despite the fact that a judge, not a jury,             made the factual finding that rendered ­­ rendered him         eligible for death. That violates the Sixth Amendment         under Ring. In Florida, and Florida alone, what         authorizes imposition of the death penalty is a finding          of fact by the Court of an aggravating factor, a finding            that the trial judge makes independently, and, quote,        "notwithstanding the jury's recommendation as to      sentence."             Now, the State here contends that capital       sentencing juries make implicit findings that satisfy       the Sixth Amendment under Ring, which the trial judge         then simply ratifies. That is wrong.                   Whatever the jury's recommendation might     imply about the specified aggravating factors, the       Alderson Reporting Company Official Florida Supreme Court has repeatedly rejected the notion        that the jury's verdict is anything other than advisory.         Florida law entrusts the factual findings of aggravators        to the judge alone, who may do so on the basis of            evidence that the jury never heard, and aggravators that         the jury was never presented with.                  JUSTICE SCALIA: Is there ever a case in          which the jury found aggravators and recommended the        death sentence, and the judge reversed that finding?                    MR. WAXMAN: There may well be. This is          principally a case about the finding of death         eligibility, not sentence selection. I ­­                   JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, I mean, either ­­        either way, is ­­ is there ­­ is there ­­                                 MR. WAXMAN: Yes.    JUSTICE SCALIA: ­­ is there ever a case in           which the jury did not find an aggravating circumstance,         but the judge did?                MR. WAXMAN: Well, we don't ever know what         the jury found about any of the specified aggravating         circumstances. The only thing that the jury tells the          judge is, we recommend life­slash­death by a vote of X           versus Y.              JUSTICE SCALIA: Right. But they can't        recommend death unless they find the aggravator, right?        Alderson Reporting Company Official             MR. WAXMAN: Well, no. No. As a matter of             State law, that's not correct. They can't recommend         death unless seven of them each believe that some         aggravator is satisfied.                           JUSTICE SCALIA: All right.     MR. WAXMAN: But the Florida Supreme       Court ­­ and this is a ­­ this is a ­­ another Ring               problem here. The Florida Supreme Court has recognized         that where two aggravators are presented, it is        impossible to know, even if a simple majority agreed on           a single aggravator.               CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, that's a       common feature, though, of jury deliberations. Let's        say an aggravator is whether the murder is ­­ is          particularly heinous. And it can be for ­­ for a number             of factors: One, the victim is a ­­ a ­­ a juvenile, so                 maybe three jurors find that. Or an officer was also           killed, or it was in the commission ­­ in the course of            another felony.              In a typical case, a finding that the murder           was heinous, you have no idea whether the juror ­­ jury           as a whole made that determination, or if there were            different reasons.              MR. WAXMAN: Mr. Chief Justice, Florida,       and ­­ Florida is the only State ­­ the only death           Alderson Reporting Company Official penalty State and therefore the only State that does not          require or permit the jury to be told that it has to            agree. And in all other States it's unanimous, but even           has to ­­ cannot even be told that a majority have to             agree as to the existence of one of the specified          aggravating factors.              CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, but isn't that        true ­­ I mean, taking it even out of the death penalty             context, that's true with every jury determination. You         could have the jury determining that the ­­ the ­­         the ­­ you know, the ­­ the person didn't commit the           offense because his alibi was good, or because, you         know, somebody else did it, or, you know, any number of            different reasons that they think he was not guilty.          It doesn't ­­                          MR. WAXMAN: It ­­    CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: ­­ have to be        agreement by the jury on a ­­ on the particular basis            for their verdict.               MR. WAXMAN: We're talking here, Mr. Chief        Justice, about elements of the crime. And as this Court           explained in Ring, the existence of a statutory         aggravating factor is an element of a death­eligible         crime.             And can anybody imagine a world, which would         Alderson Reporting Company Official be the analogue in Florida, if the jury at the          guilt/innocence phase of any trial, a shoplifting trial,         were told, now, look. I'm the one who will decide           whether the defendant is or isn't guilty as a matter of            law, and ­­ and eligible for punishment. But I'd like           your input on what you ­­ whether you think each of the            specified elements is or isn't satisfied. I mean,          that ­­ nobody would stand for an argument like that ­­                      you ­­                         JUSTICE SCALIA: I'm not sure. You ­­        MR. WAXMAN: ­­ or a system like that.          JUSTICE SCALIA: Are you sure that ­­ that         if you have a crime that can be satisfied by various            elements, the jury has to agree upon the specific         element that satisfies it?                MR. WAXMAN: The jury ­­ if they are         distinct elements, and this ­­ this implies the Schad         point that the State is raising: If the State,          consistent with a long historical tradition and a         finding of equal culpability, chooses to permit a        particular element in Schad, it was premeditation, or        the mental state to be satisfied either by premeditation         or by felony murder, that's fine.                  But that is not the Florida system. Florida         requires as a matter of law ­­ and the Florida Supreme            Alderson Reporting Company Official Court has said this over and over again ­­ that a           defendant is eligible for death only if the trial judge          finds as fact, beyond a reasonable doubt, that a          particular statutory aggravator exists.                And I submit, even if that were not the          case, extending Schad, which held that in light of a          hundred­and­fifty­year history of States including in      the mental element for first degree murder, either        felony murder or premeditation, that combining those two        elements didn't satisfy the death penalty. None of that          is here.              This is a question of the Sixth Amendment         and the Eighth Amendment. No State ever has said that           the jury can just decide some model of aggravation.         They just ­­ they don't agree on the specific element,          and that would violate, I think, the Sixth and Eighth           Amendment precedents.              JUSTICE SCALIA: I ­­ I ­­ I would think             that the ­­ I would think just the opposite, that ­­that            the necessity of finding the elements of the crime goes          all the way back into the mists of history.                     And this necessity of finding an      aggravator ­­ aggravating factor, we made it up, right?         I mean, that's just recent Supreme Court law.                    MR. WAXMAN: Just ­­    Alderson Reporting Company Official             JUSTICE SCALIA: And so if ­­ if even one of           them should be satisfiable by simply finding the generic         conclusion rather than agreeing upon the ­­ the        particular species at issue, I would think it's ­­         it's ­­ it's the latter, rather than the former.                     MR. WAXMAN: Justice Scalia, I'm reminded of        your separate opinion ­­ I think it was in Walton v.            Arizona ­­ where you were choosing between two things         that you didn't particularly like, and one of them was          the fact that the Court had made, recently or not, had           made a finding of a ­­ beyond a reasonable doubt, a              factual finding of a specified aggravating factor an         element of the crime. And whether it's recent, whether          the court should or shouldn't have done it, it has. And            it ­­ under Ring, it is just like any other element of            the crime.              And on the Schad point, I think the other          thing I would have said is, the Florida Supreme Court ­­           and I'll refer the case ­­ the Court to the Bevel           case ­­ the Florida Supreme Court has said that the           aggravating factors that it ­­ that makes one eligible         for death are vastly incommensurate, in terms of        relative levels of ­­                           JUSTICE ALITO: Mr. Waxman ­­     MR. WAXMAN: ­­ moral ability, opposite of        Alderson Reporting Company Official the predicate of Schad.                JUSTICE ALITO: Could I ask you this about          Ring? I wasn't on the Court at the time of Ring, so              could you tell me if Ring is entitled to greater weight           as a precedent than, let's say, Gregg v. Georgia and the            other cases upholding the constitutionality of the death        penalty?              MR. WAXMAN: Oh, I'm not ­­ I ­­ I wouldn't            be prepared to say ­­ to assign weight to either of           them.               I think Ring is certainly predicated on      Gregg, to Justice Scalia's point. If Gregg hadn't         decided that ­­ that there has to be a determinate,           specific appellate reviewable narrowing of trial ­­      sentencing jury's discretion, Ring wouldn't come up,       because an aggravating factor wouldn't be an element.                    JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Do you think this       scheme, assuming we agree with Justice Scalia, that you         don't really need unanimity, would this still be good         law under Apodaca ­­ Apodaca ­­                 MR. WAXMAN: Well ­­                JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: ­­ the case that said        that we ­­ we needed a unanimous jury, but, you know,            nine out of twelve is okay? Do you ­­ do you think             seven out of five is okay?      Alderson Reporting Company Official             MR. WAXMAN: I hope it was clear from our           brief that we think ­­                            JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: It's not.     MR. WAXMAN: ­­ nine out of five is not          okay. It doesn't require this Court to overrule         Apodaca, which ­­              JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: We're not required to do        anything. We could just say it's not the functional          equivalent. But is ­­                            law?                         it?             MR. WAXMAN: Well ­­    JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But is it still good        MR. WAXMAN: Well, six ­­     JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Shouldn't we overrule      MR. WAXMAN: I ­­ we think, for the reasons           stated in our brief, you should overrule it. And          particularly in the Eighth Amendment context where the        question is death, the jury should be unanimous.                      I mean, there is no other State that permits        anyone to be sentenced for death other than a unanimous           determination by the jury. And the State of Florida          requires unanimity for shoplifting, just not for death.        It requires unanimity on all the other elements of the          crime. Alderson Reporting Company Official             Now, even ­­ Apodaca's is a ­­ is an unusual           decision, as Justice ­­               JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, wait a minute.        They ­­ they ­­ they require unanimity for the ­­ for a            conviction, right?                          MR. WAXMAN: Yes. And conviction ­­       JUSTICE SCALIA: Just ­­ just ­­ just they         don't require unanimity on the sentence. That's quite         different from ­­                          MR. WAXMAN: Justice ­­    JUSTICE SCALIA: ­­ from whether the person        committed the crime or not.                 MR. WAXMAN: Justice Scalia ­­ exactly.       And, Justice Scalia, leaving aside our Eighth Amendment        point in our brief that ­­ that followed on Justice          Breyer's concurrence in Ring, the ­­ this is all about          the eligibility, not the determination of what sentence        applies. And you have held that the existence of a           specified statutory aggravating factor is a condition.        It is an element of capital murder, and it is, by           statute and Florida Supreme Court decision, an element        of capital murder in Florida.                 And in Apodaca itself, which, as ­­ as        Justice Thomas pointed out in McDonald, is an        extraordinarily unusual case, even there, six justices       Alderson Reporting Company Official indicated that a simple majority rule would not pass          muster.               I mean, we need to ­­ once a ­­ at ­­          when ­­ when an assignment is made to a jury in a case               to decide beyond a reasonable doubt the existence of an           element, however the State defines the element, we need         substantial reliability that the jury actually performs       those functions.              And in this case ­­ and, again, in this         case, if it were true that the sentencing jury was          actually determining death eligibility, which it is       plainly not, as we point out, the Eighth Amendment would          certainly be violated under Caldwell, because this ­­       Florida juries are told that they do not determine death          eligibility. And the State simply can't have it both          ways. Either the jury is correctly told that its role           is merely advisory, in which case there is a Ring           violation, or the instruction that it's given violates        the Eighth Amendment under Caldwell, because, as in        Caldwell, it misleadingly, quote, "minimizes the jury's       sense of responsibility for determining the      appropriateness of death."               JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Waxman, do we ­­ do         we just treat as irrelevant what was involved in this          case, that is, the two aggravators that were alleged,         Alderson Reporting Company Official the brutality of the murder, and that it occurred during          a robbery? Those were obvious that they existed. Is           that not so?               MR. WAXMAN: I think it's not so. It's           probably a reason why ­­ for ­­ I mean, the heinous,             atrocious, and cruel aggravator can never be obvious.        And the State isn't even arguing harmlessness with        respect to that.               And as to robbery, I think it's important         to ­­ to recognize the following: The State made a           choice. They didn't even indite Timothy Hurst for         robbery. The sentencing jury was not even instructed on          the elements of robbery. This argument of harmlessness         was never raised in these proceedings from the        sentencing proceeding onward, including in the brief in        opposition in this case, until the Red brief, and even          there the Red brief is simply arguing that there was a           fatal concession.              But in any event, Justice Ginsburg, there is        evidence in the record from which a jury could certainly           find that Timothy Hurst, although he was found guilty of          first­degree murder, did not, in fact, actually commit        the robbery. The jury was told that to find the           existence of the felony murder aggravator, it had to         find ­­ and I believe this is on Page of the Joint              Alderson Reporting Company Official Appendix ­­ that it had to find that the murder was           committed while he ­­ in the course of him committing a           robbery. All of the physical evidence in this case that           relates to the robbery, the ­­ the ­­ the bank deposit           slip, the money, the bank deposit envelope, and a piece           of paper in Lee­Lee Smith's handwriting toting up the         proceeds were all found in Lee­Lee Smith's possession.                     And so, although it is not this Court's       ordinary function to determine whether something was or        wasn't harmless, as in Ring it was remanded for that          purpose, I think in this case it manifestly was not           harmless. And if there were a remand or any question by             this Court on that count, it ought to be remanded to the            State court, not only to determine constitutional       harmlessness, but whether there was a waiver by the          State in its deliberate choice never to mention this         either to the second sentencing jury or thereafter.                    JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Mr. Waxman, am ­­ am I         understanding the case properly? The informant, who had         all of the physical evidence, was the main identifier of          the defendant, correct?                                       MR. WAXMAN: Correct.    JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: And ­­    MR. WAXMAN: Because there were ­­ there        were ­­ there was an eyewitness from across the street          Alderson Reporting Company Official who testified that he saw somebody go into the Popeye's,          and he positively identified the defendant.                              JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Now, did ­­     MR. WAXMAN: Now, I believe there was         another cooperator who backed up Lee­Lee Smith's       testimony.             JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So the defendant      claimed, however, that this informant was the one who         did the crime.               Could the jury, under the evidence that       existed, concluded that they both did it?                               MR. WAXMAN: Certainly.    JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: And that's why it's       debatable whether it's harmless?                MR. WAXMAN: Yes. And, in fact ­­                    JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Because what makes it an        aggravator is if he's the one who actually did the          killing.             MR. WAXMAN: That's correct.                 JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: That he wasn't ­­                  MR. WAXMAN: Well, that's what the jury was         instructed.             JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Uh­huh.                MR. WAXMAN: The jury was instructed that in         order to find the felony murder aggravator, it had to          Alderson Reporting Company Official find that the murder was committed in the course of him           committing the robbery.                                                   JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Personally.    MR. WAXMAN: Yes.    JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: All right. That's ­­       MR. WAXMAN: But the ­­ the statute, the         actual aggravator, is different. But that is what this          jury was told.               JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Waxman, can ­­ can I         give you a ­­ a hypothetical State system? And this is              a two­part question. You tell me if it is consistent           with the Sixth Amendment. And if it is, what makes this            case different. Okay?                So my system is that a jury, whether in the           penalty phase or in the guilt phase, has to make a           determination of an aggravating factor. Okay? But once          that's done, once the jury decides on an aggravating         factor, the judge can do whatever she wants. The judge           can add aggravating factors. The judge can reweigh the          aggravating factors as compared with the mitigating       evidence. The judge can do any of that stuff.                      But the judge has to leave alone the        aggravating factor that the jury finds. So, in other          words, the judge can't give death when the jury finds          life, and the judge can't throw out the jury's factor.          Alderson Reporting Company Official But ­­ but as long as that jury makes that aggravating           factor determination, the judge can do anything. Is         that consistent with the Sixth Amendment?                  MR. WAXMAN: Okay. You're ­­ you're asking         only about the Sixth Amendment and not the Eighth         Amendment ­­                         JUSTICE KAGAN: Yes.    MR. WAXMAN: ­­ point. Okay. So the ­­ so            just to be sure that I'm specifically answering your         question, if the jury is told, you must find ­­ for the            defendant to be eligible for death, you must find beyond          a reasonable doubt the existence of at least one of the           statutory aggravating factors. And I would also say for           Sixth Amendment purposes, you must either be unanimous        or the vote must be at least ten to two. And then the              jury does so find. And then you have the sort of            belt­and­suspenders legal system that the State is       positing that Florida has here where the judge can say,          okay, I'm the one who does the sentence, so I can weigh             the ags and the mits. I can't ­­ he is death eligible              because the jury found beyond a reasonable doubt that a           statutory aggravator exists. But the judge can say,         nonetheless, I'm giving life. There's nothing ­­       there's no violation of the Sixth Amendment in ­­ when          that happens.  Alderson Reporting Company Official             The question is, in this case, when the        sentencing jury has concluded its work ­­ I mean ­­ and            I'm assuming in a case where there's not a conviction            for a prior aggravated felony. When the sentencing jury           has concluded its work, is the defendant eligible for         the death penalty under State law? Yes or no. And in             Florida, the answer is unquestionably no.                  Even if we knew that of the jurors found          the robbery aggravator here, there would be a Ring          violation, just as if we knew that of the jurors           found that he had killed the defendant in this case, but           they had been told, I just want your input on this            because I, the judge, will decide this.                   JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, is that what ­­ is         that what makes a difference, then, in the end, that ­­           that ­­ that you're saying that the jury has to be           specifically told that that's what it's doing? That ­­         and you're saying ­­                           MR. WAXMAN: The jury, no.      JUSTICE KAGAN: ­­ the necessary part of a         constitutional system for the jury to be instructed that         it has the responsibility to find the aggravating factor         that serves as a precondition to death.                    MR. WAXMAN: At a minimum, if, in fact, the           jury is performing that function, it cannot, at least in          Alderson Reporting Company Official a capital case, be told that it is not performing that           function, that its advice is ­­ that its verdict is only           advisory.                         JUSTICE KAGAN: But ­­    JUSTICE ALITO: What if it's told that it         has to decide on life or death, but the judge is ­­ if             you decide on death, the judge is going to review it,           and the judge has the power to sentence to life.                      MR. WAXMAN: If the ­­ I mean, there is no            constitutional violation ­­ our view ­­ and this again         is, is Justice Breyer's Eighth Amendment point, which we         endorse. Our view is that capital sentencing always has          be ­­ has been and, as a matter of constitutional law,            should be done by a jury. We're not arguing that other             sentences have to be jury sentencing. And so if a           jury ­­ if a jury says it's death, and the judge says,             well, I disagree, I'm only going to sentence him to           life, there's no constitutional violation.                 JUSTICE ALITO: Well, I'm trying to       understand the limits of your argument that what is done          under the Florida statute diminishes the jury's sense of         responsibility. The jury's sense of responsibility will        be diminished to some degree if they know that their          verdict is not necessarily the final word.                   MR. WAXMAN: Well ­­    Alderson Reporting Company Official             JUSTICE ALITO: Would that be the case ­­        isn't that case whether they ­­ whether they're told,         you ­­ you make a recommendation and the judge decides,           or you impose a sentence, but the judge can impose a            different sentence, a lesser sentence? There's still ­­         they ­­ they still don't have to bear the responsibility          of making the absolutely final decision.                  MR. WAXMAN: So, Justice ­­ Justice Alito,        let me separate out what I'm calling the selection         decision, that is, life or death and the weighing of ags           and mits and the eligibility decision, which is all of          the elements of capital murder have been found by ­­         beyond a reasonable doubt by the jury with either          unanimously or a sufficient majority, and, therefore,        when the sentencing jury is done, you are eligible for          the death penalty.               Leaving aside the Eighth Amendment question      whether the Constitution then require ­­ requires the        jury to make the intensely moral judgment about whether         the penalty should be life without parole or death,         assuming that a judge can do that, so long as the jury             is not told that its input, which is how the Florida           Supreme Court has put it, is ­­ so long as they are not             told that it's advisory, so long as they are told that           you as the finders of fact have to find that beyond a            Alderson Reporting Company Official reasonable doubt that this capital crime was committed,        which includes the following elements, including one of        the two specifying aggravators, the Constitution is       satisfied.             The ­­ the Caldwell problem is an Eighth        Amendment problem. Caldwell was an Eighth Amendment        case. And in Caldwell what ­­ I mean what the jury is              told here ­­ if the system exists as the State posits           it, what the jury is told here is far more misleading           than what was told in Caldwell.                  In Caldwell, the jury was simply told at        closing argument that your decision is going to be         reviewable by the Mississippi Supreme Court. And a         majority of this Court held that that unconstitutionally        diminished the jury's responsibility.                Here the jury was told over and over and         over again, and consistent with Florida law, that your         judgment is merely advisory; I will be the one to make            this determination. And either ­­ if that isn't ­­ that           does appear to be the system, that violates Ring. If it            isn't the system and if somehow it can be argued that           the jury is making implicit findings of aggravation at         large, that renders somebody eligible for death, then        there is a plain Caldwell problem. And that ­­ that's            our position.  Alderson Reporting Company Official May I reserve the balance of my time?         CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You may.      MR. WAXMAN: Thank you.     CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Mr. Winsor.                                                                    ORAL ARGUMENT OF ALLEN WINSOR                    ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT                 MR. WINSOR: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it         please the Court:               Florida's capital sentencing system was     constitutional before Ring v. Arizona, and it remains        constitutional in light of Ring v. Arizona. What Ring          required was a jury determination on those facts on          which the State legislature conditions the imposition of        the death penalty.               In this instance Mr. Hurst got that. The         legislature has determined that the elements necessary       to make a defendant eligible for the death penalty is           the existence of a murder and one or more aggravating           circumstances.             And what the other side calls the advisory        sentence included within it a finding, as this Court          recognized in the United States v. Jones, that the jury          had determined there was one or more aggravating        circumstances.             And so the jury ­­    Alderson Reporting Company Official             JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I'm sorry. How ­­ how         is that, when Florida law says that the judge has to           find an aggravator to make someone eligibility for the         death penalty?              MR. WINSOR: Well, I agree with the other          side that there is a difference between the sentence          selection and the sentence eligibility. And so once the          defendant is eligible because a jury has found all of           the necessary elements, then what happens after that,        Your Honor, does not implicate Ring at all.                    JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Could you tell me how        this is different than Arizona? I mean, in terms of the             system, just like in the Arizona case, there had been          precedent by this Court that Arizona law had been         constitutional. Unlike Arizona, every Florida ­­ every        court that has looked ­­ every judge who's looked at it,           not one of them has said that they believe personally          it's constitutional. Even the courts affirming ­­       affirm on the basis of the prior precedent, and you have           a little less than half the Court directly saying it          violates Ring. So what's the jury finding when it says           seven to five?                           MR. WINSOR: Well, if I could back up ­­          JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Even when it says a        murder has been committed, felony murder wasn't. Felony         Alderson Reporting Company Official murder was charged, but we don't know if they found the           robbery, right?              MR. WINSOR: We ­­ at the guilt phase they          convicted of first degree murder, which could have        either been felony murder with the predicate underlying        felony being robbery or premeditated murder. But to         answer your earlier question about the actual ­­                   JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So how do we know which         one they picked?                           MR. WINSOR: I'm sorry?     JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Which ­­ how do we know         which one they picked? Which makes them eligible for          the death penalty?               MR. WINSOR: Well, our position is that        they ­­ that he became eligible at the ­­ at the           sentencing phase when the jury made its advisory        decision, because the jury at that phase was instructed,         that if you determine that no aggravating circumstances        are found to exist, you must recommend life.                    JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But you do agree that        that ­­ it doesn't require a unanimous jury?                     MR. WINSOR: It does not require a unanimous          jury.             JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: It ­­ and ­­ a simple          majority is all you need?     Alderson Reporting Company Official MR. WINSOR: That's right.     JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So we don't have ­­       MR. WINSOR: That's right, but that's ­­                                           that's a jury finding.                 JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: ­­ a unanimous jury,        even a functionally equivalent unanimous jury, finding        those aggravators.              MR. WINSOR: I'm sorry?                 JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: We don't have a       unanimous or functionally unanimous jury finding those       aggravators.             MR. WINSOR: Our reliance for the ­­ the         final eligibility determination is that seven to five.                    But I would make this point: The seven to           five ­­ there are two things that go on when the ­­ when             the jury determines whether someone should be sentenced        to death or not.                First, the jury looks and determines whether       the State has proven beyond a reasonable doubt an          aggravating circumstance. That's the eligibility piece       of it.              Then they get into the sentence selection       process where they weigh the aggravators that they do         find, assuming they find some, against the mitigating        circumstances. And of course the defendant under this         Alderson Reporting Company Official Court's precedent is allowed to put in any evidence that          he wishes.              JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I'm sorry. The jury is         not asked to find an aggravator.                              MR. WINSOR: I'm sorry?     JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: It's not asked to find        an aggravator.               MR. WINSOR: It is, Your Honor. It is         instructed that it may not return a death recommendation          without ­­             JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I know. But that's not          found at the jury verdict.                 MR. WINSOR: I'm sorry?                 JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: It's not found at the        trial ­­ after ­­               MR. WINSOR: At the sentencing phase.                   JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: You're ­­ only at the        sentencing phase.              MR. WINSOR: I'm talking about the       sentencing phase right ­­               JUSTICE BREYER: Suppose that the jury comes        back at the sentencing phase and says, we recommend         life.             MR. WINSOR: Yes.                JUSTICE BREYER: And the reason, though I        Alderson Reporting Company Official guess no one would know it, is because they ­­ no ­­           nobody found an aggravating.                            give death.                                                  MR. WINSOR: Uh­huh.    JUSTICE BREYER: Can the judge, nonetheless,       MR. WINSOR: No. Not unless ­­       JUSTICE BREYER: No.    MR. WINSOR: With this caveat.      JUSTICE BREYER: No, we ­­ we have ­­ they          have a page in their opinion, in their brief, you know,            Page , where it cites about six Florida cases, which          suggested to me that they thought the answer to that          question as a matter of Florida law was, yes, the judge            can sentence to death.                                        MR. WINSOR: Yeah. Let me ­­ let me ­­          JUSTICE BREYER: Is that so or not so?         MR. WINSOR: Let me be clear: As a matter            of Florida statutory law, it is permitted. We         acknowledge that under Ring it would not be permitted in          the circumstance where the State is relying on the         recommendation to satisfy the eligibility.                             part.             Now, you could have a situation ­­       JUSTICE BREYER: That's ­­ I missed the last          MR. WINSOR: Okay.    Alderson Reporting Company Official JUSTICE BREYER: The jury comes back.       MR. WINSOR: Uh­huh.    JUSTICE BREYER: They say life.      MR. WINSOR: Right.    JUSTICE BREYER: And we know, through mental        MR. WINSOR: Right.    JUSTICE BREYER: ­­ though I guess the judge                                                                      telepathy ­­                         doesn't, that the reason that they did that is no one           found an aggravator.               My simple question is: As a matter of          Florida law, can the judge impose the death sentence?         Yes or no.               MR. WINSOR: As a matter of Florida         statutory law, yes. As a matter of Ring, no. With ­­                         JUSTICE BREYER: That isn't Florida ­­ I        mean, it is. It's Federal law. So ­­ I mean, Ring is               over. So ­­ so you say the answer is now no ­­                        Breyer ­­                         MR. WINSOR: With this caveat, Justice       JUSTICE BREYER: ­­ because of Ring.       Because you agree that this case is like        Ring, and therefore Ring would apply, and therefore ­­        not this case, but any case in which they recommend          life. Alderson Reporting Company Official                         MR. WINSOR: Not any case, Your Honor.        JUSTICE SCALIA: God, I'd like to know your         caveat. What is the caveat? I'm ­­ I'm on pins and             needles here.                          MR. WINSOR: The caveat is this ­­       JUSTICE BREYER: I am, too, actually.                    Sorry.             MR. WINSOR: There are multiple ways that a         defendant in Florida can become eligible for death.                    One is, in this case, where it's determined        at the sentencing phase because of the finding within         the jury's recommendation.               In other instances it can be ­­ a person can           become eligible before the sentencing phase either       because they have a prior violent felony conviction or          because they have a contemporaneous conviction.                   For example, if someone murdered two people       and were convicted of double murder, that person at the          guilt phase, by virtue of that guilt jury's verdict, has          been found to be eligible for the death penalty.                     And so at that stage, then in your        hypothetical, Justice Breyer, if that sentencing­phase      jury recommended life, the judge could override it        without violating Ring.               Now, I will tell you that, as a matter of            Alderson Reporting Company Official Florida State law, the judge in that circumstance would         face an exacting standard; and, as a matter of fact, no            judge has overwritten a jury's life recommendation since         before Ring.              So as a matter of function, it is just not           something that happens in Florida.                 But to answer your question, we do believe        it would be constitutional in the situation that I         described.             hung.                                                 JUSTICE GINSBURG: Suppose the jury came in        MR. WINSOR: I'm sorry?     JUSTICE GINSBURG: On ­­ on the sentence.        MR. WINSOR: If the sentencing phase ­­       JUSTICE GINSBURG: The jury ­­ jury, instead        of being seven to five, it was hung.                                MR. WINSOR: If the ­­     JUSTICE GINSBURG: Could the judge then       impose the death penalty?                MR. WINSOR: Not in this situation, Your        Honor, because that would result in a life         recommendation. A six­six vote is tantamount to a life            recommendation. And the judge could not override that         if he were relying on the jury sentencing finding to          satisfy Ring.  Alderson Reporting Company Official             And even if he weren't, he or she weren't,         like I said, it's an exacting Florida State law          standard. The judge would be reversed for overturning         that unless he ­­ he or she determined ­­ or unless the            appellate court determined that no reasonable jury in        those circumstances could have imposed or recommended a        life sentence.              And as I indicated, it's been since         since any judge actually overrode a life recommendation.                     JUSTICE KENNEDY: Just so I ­­ I understand           it: So you're saying that it ­­ it is possible, but            under Florida law the jury would not find the existence          of an aggravated ­­ aggravating factor but ­­ and         would ­­ and then there are different ways that this          would come out ­­ the hypothetical was a hung jury ­­           but the judge could then proceed to find an aggravating          factor and impose the death penalty.                  Now, you say, now, this hasn't happened.       He'd probably be reversed. But theoretically this could         happen.             MR. WINSOR: Only ­­ that could not happen         consistent with Ring, Your Honor, unless there were some         other jury finding or admission that established death        eligibility.             JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, you're saying it       Alderson Reporting Company Official couldn't happen consistent with Ring, meaning that there        are certain applications of the Florida law that would         be unconstitutional even in your view.                  MR. WINSOR: That hypothetical that we've       explored here ­­ again, with their ­­ with the absence          of another aggravating circumstance proven outside.                  And ­­ and that actually happens in most        cases, Justice Kagan.               JUSTICE SCALIA: But ­­ but we don't ­­        we ­­ we don't sit in judgment of ­­ of theoretical           scheme that Florida has set up, do we?                                MR. WINSOR: No, Your Honor, and ­­       JUSTICE SCALIA: And don't we have to        adjudge that there has been unconstitutionality in this        case?             MR. WINSOR: That's correct, Justice Scalia.       And in this case there was a ­­ a jury recommendation,             actually two jury recommendations ­­                JUSTICE KAGAN: Could I give you another         hypothetical scheme, notwithstanding that we don't sit       in judgment of hypothetical schemes?                             MR. WINSOR: Sure.    JUSTICE KAGAN: Suppose that the ­­ the ­­        the jury finds an aggravating fact, but then, you know,          the judge has this whole separate hearing ­­ right? ­­         Alderson Reporting Company Official in which other things are presented to him. And the           judge says, you know, I don't actually agree with the           aggravating fact that the jury found, but I have my own            aggravating facts, and now I'm ­­ I'm doing all the          weighing and I come out in favor of death.                        I ­­ I assume that you would say that also          would be an unconstitutional application.                 MR. WINSOR: No, Your Honor. That would be          consistent with Ring because, again, once death       eligibility ­­ and ­­ and there is a substantial          difference that this Court has recognized over the years         between the determination of who is eligible for death,         and then, of that universe of people eligible for death,          for whom is it appropriate?                 JUSTICE KAGAN: Yes. Quite ­­ quite right.         But I'm ­­ I'm hypothesizing a case in which the jury            finds that death­eligibility marker ­­                            MR. WINSOR: Right.    JUSTICE KAGAN: ­­ right? If ­­ but the          judge throws that one out and substitutes his own.         That ­­ you think that would be constitutional?                    MR. WINSOR: Well, the judge in that        instance wouldn't be throwing it out.                  JUSTICE KAGAN: No, he does throw it out.         He just says, I don't agree with that. I'm ­­ but I'm              Alderson Reporting Company Official substituting my own.                           Would that be all right?     MR. WINSOR: That would be okay because        eligibility would have been determined. Just like if,         in my double murder example, the judge believed that,         you know, if he were sitting on the jury, maybe he would            have acquitted that person of the ­­ of the double          murder.             And of course he can't just override the        jury's verdict based on a mere disagreement. In that           instance, the death eligibility was determined, not       withstanding that he had ­­ he'd been the decision         maker, maybe would have decided differently. The person         is eligible for death. And then it's up to the           sentencer.             JUSTICE KAGAN: But I have to say that          answer surprises me because the death sentence there is         not at all a function of the jury's eligibility finding.           The judge has tossed out that eligibility finding and         substituted his own, which then leads to the death         sentence.             So how can we say that that's possibly        constitutional under Ring?               MR. WINSOR: Because the point in Ring was         to make sure that no person was subject to a greater            Alderson Reporting Company Official penalty than they bargained for when they did the crime          without a jury finding. And in your hypothetical, the           jury finds that there is an aggravator. So there is a            jury finding that that person is entitled to the         punishment based on the crime that he or she committed.                      JUSTICE KAGAN: The judge has said that that         jury finding is utterly irrelevant to his decision about         whether to impose death. That he's imposing death based          on something that the jury has not found.                    MR. WINSOR: But at that point the judge's         determination is separate from the ­­ the selection        point. The judge is exercising the discretion to         sentence within ­­ a person who is determined by a jury             to be eligible for the death penalty.                   did it?                                      JUSTICE SCALIA: That didn't happen here,       MR. WINSOR: No, your Honor.      JUSTICE SCALIA: Good, I thought so ­­        JUSTICE KAGAN: But the thing is you can't         really tell whether that happens in a wide variety of           cases. And this is actually ­­ this goes to this           question of because the jury doesn't actually have to         find specific things, only the judge has to find         specific things, you often are not going to be able to           tell whether the judge's sentence is based on the same          Alderson Reporting Company Official aggravating facts that the jury has found.                   MR. WINSOR: But it doesn't need to be under          Ring, because once the jury has determined that there is          an aggravating factor or if it's been admitted, then the          person is death eligible and Ring is completely        finished. There's nothing more to do under Ring.                                 And then we move ­­    JUSTICE GINSBURG: Even though the jury is        told, now, whatever you say, it's advisory. It's not          binding. So you have made a finding of an aggravator,            but it's not a binding finder of an aggravator. The            jury is told that whatever they say is advisory.                                 Doesn't that make a difference?      MR. WINSOR: No. What the jury is told is           that its ultimate recommendation is ­­ is not binding on          the Court.              And that's true. And that's one of the         great benefits of Florida's system. I mean, Florida's          system was developed in response to this Court's        decision in Ferment, and this Court has said that the          Florida's system provides additional benefits to the       defendant.             matter ­­             So you have a judicial backstop. The         JUSTICE GINSBURG: That was ­­ that was        Alderson Reporting Company Official before Ring.                          MR. WINSOR: That was before Ring.       And we're not contesting that Ring would       require a jury finding or an admission of those          elements.             But once the jury makes its recommendation,       even if it recommends death, the judge can override that          by ­­ for any reason, just based on disagreement alone,          which makes it unlike, you know, in a usual capital ­­           or the ­­ excuse me ­­ a usual criminal proceeding where            the judge could not overcome ­­                 JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I'm sorry. I just         want ­­ I'm ­­ I'm sorry.                  Justice Scalia.              JUSTICE SCALIA: Is it clear to the jury         that they are the last word on whether an aggravator          exists or not?               MR. WINSOR: What it ­­ what the jury is          told is that they cannot return a death recommendation          without finding a ­­ an aggravating circumstance.        That's ­­             JUSTICE SCALIA: But then they're also told        that the judge is ultimately going to decide whether         your recommendation stands or not.                 MR. WINSOR: The judge is going to        Alderson Reporting Company Official ultimately impose the sentence, and that's true. And         that's both true under Caldwell, but it's not ­­                    JUSTICE SCALIA: But shouldn't it be clear        to the jury that ­­ that their determination of whether          an aggravator exists or not is final? Shouldn't that be           clear?             MR. WINSOR: Well, I ­­ I don't think so,            Your Honor, because the determination of the aggravator        doesn't yield a death sentence unless the judge, in his           or her own opinion, believes the death is appropriate.         That's a benefit.                JUSTICE SCALIA: But I'm ­­ I'm talking ­­        I'm talking about what responsibility the jury feels.        If the jury knows that if ­­ if ­­ if we don't ­­ if ­­              if we don't find it an aggravator, it can't be found; or            if we do find an aggravator, it must be accepted.          That's a lot more responsibility than just, you know,          well, you know, if you find an aggravator and you ­­ you            weigh it and provide for the death penalty, the judge is           going to review it anyway.                 MR. WINSOR: I'm not sure that's an accurate         characterization of what goes on because it's not that         the judge must accept ­­ the aggravator determination        has no purpose or no point other than determining         eligibility and then the weighing.     Alderson Reporting Company Official             And if the judge determines that the death        sentence is not appropriate for whatever reason, then        the fact that the jury found an aggravating circumstance         makes no difference.               JUSTICE KENNEDY: Suppose then in your       earlier hypothetical, the judge ­­ the jury finds an         aggravator occurred in the course of the robbery, and,         therefore, there is death eligibility. Then it goes to          the judge. And the judge says, there is simply no           evidence to support that aggravating factor, but I find          another aggravating factor. Under your view, the judge         could go ahead and impose the death penalty?                    MR. WINSOR: Well, in that instance, that's        a little bit different, as I understand it, than Justice           Kagan's hypothetical.              First of all, the ­­ the recommendation       doesn't specify what ­­ which of the aggravating        factors ­­             JUSTICE KENNEDY: But this is my       hypothetical.             MR. WINSOR: Okay. So to make sure I          understand ­­             JUSTICE KENNEDY: I mean, a death case,          which is not funny.                JUSTICE KAGAN: Which honestly sounds the       Alderson Reporting Company Official same.             MR. WINSOR: Well, I think the ­­ I think            the difference is, respectfully, is his included the ­­        the finding that the judge finds no evidence to support          as opposed to just disagreeing with their ­­ excuse me.                                  JUSTICE KENNEDY: And what would happen?       MR. WINSOR: If you had a situation ­­ and,           again, this would be limited ­­ let me make sure I'm           limiting the ­­ the answer to the situation where the          State is depending on the death recommendation of        finding an aggravator.                           JUSTICE KENNEDY: Yes.    MR. WINSOR: Which is the minority of cases,         as we ­­ as we said in the brief. If the jury made a               specific finding as to a specific aggravator ­­ and,          again, they wouldn't be instructed on that aggravator        unless there was sufficient evidence of it at the ­­ at           the threshold stage. But if the judge concluded that          there was insufficient evidence ­­ again, he never would         have submitted it to the jury ­­ then that ­­ that           probably would not be permissible.                 JUSTICE BREYER: Go for a second to an          analogy.             MR. WINSOR: I'm sorry?                 JUSTICE BREYER: There's ­­ there are two        Alderson Reporting Company Official good other analogies in other areas of the law. The one            that supports you is robbery, force or threat of force.          No one ever asks or needn't ask whether six members of           the jury thought there was a threat but no actual, or            seven members thought there was actual but no threat.         Threat or threat of force. I don't think we have to             say. I don't think so. So that supports you.                        On the other hand, imagine a normal        sentencing case. The statute says, you ­­ you get          aggravated punishment if you had grams of cocaine.         The jury finds he had grams of cocaine ­­ no. Sorry.                         The statute says aggravated sentence if       grams of cocaine or meth. The jury finds he had             grams of cocaine. I don't think under Apprendi,           which I didn't agree with ­­ but I don't think the judge              could say, I'm going to give you the aggravated sentence          because I don't believe there was any cocaine, but I do             believe there was meth.                MR. WINSOR: That may well be right. And          that's one of the reasons the jury is not asked to find            specific aggravating factors.               JUSTICE BREYER: But we do know that the         judge here ­­ now still you're having conceded Ring,         where the jury says no aggravating factor. We know that           the jury can, if the jury finds aggravating factor X,          Alderson Reporting Company Official have death on a completely different aggravating factor,         but the jury never thought of, namely why.                    Now, we know that. And now compare that to          the hypothetical of cocaine and meth. And then we have           Apprendi, which I disagree with still, but...                    MR. WINSOR: Well, I think, Your Honor, in          the cocaine and meth example, I believe that the ­­ the            Court would look, as they did in Jones, to say, well, is            the legislature setting this up as distinctive offenses,        or are they setting this up as one offense that can be            satisfied either by possession of cocaine or meth. And          if it were the latter, then the jury would just be           instructed to find one or the other without any ­­ any           specific ­­ and we know is that ­­                   JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I want to clarify. You          think a seven­to­five recommendation is finding an        element of the crime that makes you eligible for the          death penalty by a unanimous or functionally equivalent         unanimous jury?              MR. WINSOR: We do, Your Honor. And let me           say ­­             JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, then what do you        do with the statement in our case law that says a simple             majority is not a unanimous jury?                   MR. WINSOR: Well, we don't say that it's a          Alderson Reporting Company Official unanimous jury. Let me step back and say that ­­ that            the ­­ the seven­to­five vote, by the way, is not          necessarily five votes that there was no aggravating        circumstance, because, again, it's ­­ there's two things        that go on in the jury room. One, they decide whether            there were aggravating circumstances. And, two, they        just ­­ they do ­­                JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: And they don't agree       with which one?                           MR. WINSOR: Sorry?    JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So we don't know whether        it was premeditation or robbery. It could be four to           three or two to five. It could be anything.                      MR. WINSOR: I'm talking about the jury ­­        in the sentencing phase now.                 JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Right.                MR. WINSOR: So a seven to five could well           mean that all jurors found a robbery and all            jurors found heinous, atrociousness, and cruel ­­                  JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: We don't know. What        does the seven to five tell us the jury found?                      MR. WINSOR: The seven to five tells us that          at a minimum, a majority of the jury at a minimum, found               beyond a reasonable doubt that the State had proven the           existence of one or more aggravating circumstances. And         Alderson Reporting Company Official getting back to Justice ­­                                                                JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Not the same one?       MR. WINSOR: I'm sorry?     JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Not the same?      MR. WINSOR: Not the same one.       And again, getting back to Justice Breyer's       point about the cocaine and the meth, the courts in          these situations look at what the ­­ what the         legislature's ­­ its definitions of the element. And we          know, as a matter of Florida State law, that the element            at issue here, to take someone who is not eligible for           the death penalty and to make him or her eligible for           the death penalty is the existence of one or more          aggravating circumstances, not ­­ not a specific one.                     And so it is like Schad v. Arizona, where         you ­­ you can't say whether the jury agreed that there           was premeditation or whether there was felony murder.        And, in fact, that was the case at this defendant's          guilt phase back in . He was convicted of          first­degree murder. And the guilt phase jury was         instructed that they could return that verdict either by         finding premeditation or by finding felony murder. And         there was no jury finding as to which one ­­ which one            it was.              And so as a matter of ­­ I think to answer             Alderson Reporting Company Official your question about whether they all need to be the same           or not, it would depend on what the ­­ how the State            legislature ­­             JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But you believe that a        simple majority is a jury unanimously or functionally         unanimously finding that element beyond a reasonable        doubt?             MR. WINSOR: Well, we ­­ they're certainly        finding it beyond a reasonable doubt. And we're relying           on the Court's decision in Apodaca, but ­­ but also ­­                                              JUSTICE GINSBURG: That was ten to two.        MR. WINSOR: I'm sorry?     JUSTICE GINSBURG: Does ten to two       automatically mean that seven to five is okay?                    MR. WINSOR: Not automatically, Your Honor.       But I think if you look at Apodaca, what they were            rejecting was the same arguments that the petitioner is         asking this Court to accept, which is that this long          history of the unanimity and the ­person jury        necessarily means it's ­­ it's brought in to ­­ to our           system.             But I'll say this too, the seven to five is          not the same kind of jury verdict that you'd have at           a ­­ at a guilt phase because of this judicial backstop,            because of the other protections that Florida has put in          Alderson Reporting Company Official in place.              And so even if it's a seven­to­five vote,         you still have the judge coming behind that jury, who ­­          unlike at the guilt phase where he must accept the          jury's findings, unless they're not supported by       evidence, he or she can disagree for any reason. He or            she can give mercy for any reason. And that happens a            lot.             And so we've cited the ­­ some cases in our          brief where a man was convicted of murder in a horrible             sexual assault, and by virtue of those two convictions         was necessarily eligible for the death penalty. The         jury heard all of the evidence, made a recommendation          that he receive the death penalty, and the judge said,          no, I'm going to sentence him to life.                    And so this Court ­­ you know, this gets         back into the jury versus judge sentencing. But there          are some real benefits associated with judicial       sentences. And if you go back to Proffitt, when this           Court first upheld Florida's capital sentencing system,       it recognized the advantages of judicial sentencing       because you're not going to have someone's life or death          being determined exclusively on the ­­ perhaps the ­­        the emotions of a jury.                  JUSTICE KAGAN: Can ­­ can I go back to the            Alderson Reporting Company Official kinds of hypotheticals that Justice Kennedy and I        were ­­ were proposing?                So let's say that there is a jury, and ­­          and it's been presented with evidence that the murder         was for pecuniary gain, which is one of the aggravating          factors. And the ­­ the ­­ the jury comes out with a             recommendation of death. So you ­­ and that was the           only thing that was presented to it. So you know           that the ­­ the jury has made a death eligibility           determination on pecuniary gain.                Then it goes to the judge. The judge says,          you know what, I don't really think that there's enough           evidence of pecuniary gain, but I've had this whole         hearing, and I find that the thing was ­­ that the crime             was heinous and whatnot. And now I'm going to sentence           the person to death.                right?             Now, you say that that's fine; is that        MR. WINSOR: Well, let me ­­ let me ­­ I           realize it's a hypothetical, but let me tell you why           that couldn't happen in Florida. A judge would not           instruct a jury on an aggravating circumstance for which          there was not sufficient evidence to find that.                    And so your hypothetical would not happen if        there ­­ there was ­­     Alderson Reporting Company Official             JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, you know ­­ no ­­        he's ­­ well ­­ he's heard more evidence because, you          know, there's a whole new hearing that he has. And now             he's considered it more thoroughly, and he thinks, no, I          don't agree with that anymore, but I think it was           heinous. So that would be fine.                   MR. WINSOR: Again, that's not this case        because there was no additional evidence ­­                  case.             JUSTICE KAGAN: Yes, yes, yes, it's not this         MR. WINSOR: But ­­ but the ­­ the ­­ the ­­           if the ­­ if the judge found that the ­­ that there was             no evidence of any aggravator ­­                                         JUSTICE KAGAN: I'm throwing out ­­      MR. WINSOR: Okay.    JUSTICE KAGAN: ­­ the jury's aggravating       factor, but I'm substituting my own. I thought that           that was what you told me that that was constitutional          under Ring.              MR. WINSOR: Well, I think it depends on ­­          on why you're throwing it out. If there ­­ if ­­ if ­­             as with any jury finding, if a judge finds at the guilt             phase that there is insufficient evidence to find any         element, then ­­ then he would not rely on the ­­ the            jury's determination there.   Alderson Reporting Company Official             JUSTICE KAGAN: This wasn't at the guilt        phase; this was just as a matter of sentencing.                                              Let me get on with my questioning ­­       MR. WINSOR: Yeah. Sure.      JUSTICE KAGAN: ­­ because I think you         answered this one already.                Then the appeal that's taken, right ­­ the        appeal is focusing now only on what the judge has found,           isn't that right, under Florida law? The appeal ­­ if           the person came in and said that there was insufficient          evidence, the appeal would only be as to the judge's          finding and not at all to the jury's.                    MR. WINSOR: Well, the ­­ if I understand          the hypothetical correctly, someone's convicted, has a       death recommendation, a death sentence, and is appealing         to the Florida Supreme Court.                 JUSTICE KAGAN: And ­­ and he says there was          just not enough evidence of all these aggravating        factors, so ­­ but that was ­­ would only be as to the             judge's aggravating factors. It couldn't possibly be        that he would challenge the jury's.                  MR. WINSOR: Well, the judge's aggravating       factors would be detailed in a written order. But if            it ­­ if there were ­­ if ­­ if ­­                     JUSTICE KAGAN: I mean, I'm just suggesting         Alderson Reporting Company Official that the whole appeal process suggests that the crucial         death eligibility determination is being made by the        judge because that's the only death eligibility       determination that the appeals court is ever going to         review.             MR. WINSOR: Well, I think that's ­­ gets to           another benefit of Florida's system, is that ­­ that         they ­­ they do have this to review. You know, there's            been some suggestion of jury sentencing as a ­­                     JUSTICE KAGAN: Yes, look, they have       something to review. The problem is it's the judge's          thing to ­­ that they're reviewing, not the jury's, and          that's a Sixth Amendment problem.                  MR. WINSOR: I don't think it's a         Sixth Amendment problem any more than ­­ than here when          you. At the ­­ at the ­­ at the guilt phase when he              appealed and there was a ­­ an examination of the           evidence and they didn't know whether the jury found on          felony murder predicate or on first­degree murder.       They're reviewing the conviction, and they're reviewing       the evidence that sustains it.                                         there ­­ JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: What about ­­     MR. WINSOR: Or they may sustain it.        JUSTICE ALITO: So to what degree is        Alderson Reporting Company Official             JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: How about if that       jury ­­ I'm sorry ­­                JUSTICE ALITO: So to what degree is there         a ­­ a real dispute here about the presence of the two             aggravating factors?              MR. WINSOR: There is none, Justice Alito,        in my view. And I know that there was some argument a              moment ago about the ­­ about the evidence suggesting         that someone else may have committed the crime. We          cited in our brief from their ­­ initial brief in the           Florida Supreme Court where they said, "Without any        contention, this is a two­aggravator case. Hurst does          not challenge the trial court's findings that the murder         was committed during the course of a robbery, and it was            especially heinous, atrocious, or cruel."                 He doesn't question the seriousness of those       aggravators either. His focus instead, acknowledging       all that, was on proportionality review, which is not at          issue here, but which, by the way, is another benefit of           the Florida system, that the Florida Supreme Court        reviews everything for ­­ for proportionality.                  JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Can I ask you two         separate questions on this?                            MR. WINSOR: Yes.    JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Number one, whenever      Alderson Reporting Company Official have we said that a jury waiver on an issue is based on              the lack of a challenge by a defense attorney? Don't we              require waivers of jury trials to be explicit and by the           defendant him or herself?                MR. WINSOR: When someone's waiving the jury        trial altogether, absolutely. And, of course, that        would be structural error even if there were no         objection. But this is ­­ this is ­­ goes to more like             the ­­ the element of offense. And the Court held in            Washington v. Recuenco that the Apprendi error is        subject to harmless error here.                 JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So where have we ever        said that not challenging something is an admission of         that something?              MR. WINSOR: Well ­­                JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: We take plenty of       appeals where people are saying, assuming the state of         facts, I'm entitled to X. And then when they go back            down, they argue that that goes ­­ that assumption is          wrong. Why isn't this the same?                   MR. WINSOR: Well, we ­­ we cited other         portions of the ­­ where they had ­­ excuse me ­­          acknowledged that below back in the sentencing       memorandum of the first go­around.                 But to follow up on your question,       Alderson Reporting Company Official Justice Alito, about whether there is an existence of         a ­­ of a doubt, the Florida Supreme Court found that            both of these clearly existed at the post­conviction        opinion, which led to the resentencing that's now on         appeal here. They sent it back for resentencing not          because of anything having to do with death eligibility         or the establishment of aggravators. They sent it back          because there was insufficient effort to produce       mitigating ­­             JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Has there ever been an        appeal in Florida where an advisory jury was given ­­         not given a proper instruction and a resentence was ­­           was ordered for that reason?                 MR. WINSOR: Has there been a Florida         Supreme Court reversing a death sentence for ­­                    JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: An improper instruction      to the advisory jury.                MR. WINSOR: I'd be surprised if there        weren't, Your Honor, but I ­­ I don't know. I ­­              I'll ­­ I'll ­­ I'll look at that.                    Getting back to the ­­ to the admission, the         evidence was clear. There is no question that there was           a robbery here. There is no question that there was ­­           that this was heinous, atrocious, and cruel. And we          would ask that the Court affirm the Florida Supreme         Alderson Reporting Company Official Court's judgment.                          CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.       Mr. Waxman, six minutes.               REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF SETH P. WAXMAN                    ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER                 MR. WAXMAN: Notwithstanding this flurry of       papers, I'm aspiring not to use the six minutes.                     Let me first ­­ let me go right to         Justice Scalia's question, which is not a hypothetical,         although I'm happy to answer hypotheticals.                  Your question was: Was the jury told and         doesn't a jury have to be told that as to death            eligibility, the element of the crime of capital murder,         that it makes the decision?                 The answer is: It does have to be told          that. It certainly can't be told the opposite, and it           absolutely was not told that.                 It was told over and over again, consistent        with the statute, that its decision was purely advisory.         And I want to refer the Court to the Florida Supreme            Court's decision in State v. Steele, which is at So.           The Florida Supreme Court in Steele said, first of all,          "Nothing in the statute, the standard jury instructions,        or the standard verdict form requires a majority of the           jury to agree on which aggravating circumstances exist.        Alderson Reporting Company Official Under current law, the jury may recommend a sentence of           death where four jurors believe only that one aggravator         applies, while three others believe that only another        aggravator applies, because seven jurors believe that at        least one aggravator applies."                Florida goes beyond that. It ­­ it is         unlawful ­­ and the Supreme Court of Florida has said ­­          to require ­­ to ask the jury, the sentencing jury, to           provide a special verdict that in any way indicates what           their, quote, input is on the sentencing factors.                    Again, Steele, at page . "Specific jury        findings on aggravators, without guidance about their       effect on the imposition of a sentence, could unduly          influence the trial judge's own determination of how to         sentence the defendant. The trial court alone must make          detailed findings about the existence and weight of        aggravating circumstances."              JUSTICE KENNEDY: Is that a ­­ post Ring?          What's the date of that?                 MR. WAXMAN: Yes, this is post Ring. And          the Court also held that Ring didn't apply.                                It has no jury findings on which to rely.         And, in fact, the Court also explained in ­­        later in the decision ­­ in the same decision and also           in its decision in Franklin, that Florida bar ­­ quote,          Alderson Reporting Company Official "Florida bars a special verdict precisely because        requiring specific jury findings on aggravators, without       guidance about their effect, would harm the jury's        independent" ­­ "the trial court's independent      determination."              Now, counsel ­­ my ­­ my colleague on the        other side here says that, well, there ­­ there would          not be a statutory problem, but there would be a Ring             problem if we knew that the jury found that no          aggravators existed. So how can Ring be satisfied when          we have no earthly idea what the jury found? It could            be, as in this case, as Steele acknowledges, three for          one and four for the other.                  As to the, I think, hypothetical question        that Justice Kagan was asking ­­ so, you know, in a           circumstance, how much leeway does the judge have to         make his own ­­ his or her own decisions on the death            penalty, the Florida Supreme Court has specifically       allowed the death penalty to be imposed and a         determination of death eligibility to be made based on         evidence that was never presented to the sentencing jury         and based on an aggravating factor on which the         sentencing jury was not applied.                 And the notion that there hasn't been a        life­override since Ring is ­­ is an interesting fact,         Alderson Reporting Company Official but this Court, in this Court's Sposiano decision, in         this Court's Daubert decision, that's exactly what       happened: The jury said, we want life. The judge said,            I'm hearing ­­ I'm hearing independent evidence, and        you're getting death.               Now, as to the supposed concessions in this        case, I think I'll rely largely on our brief. But the             notion that somebody ­­ that the lawyers said this is a           two­aggravator case is certainly true. There were two         aggravators charged. And maybe the jury ­­ we know that           the trial judge found that two aggravators were        satisfied.             This defendant has been making the Ring       argument since before Ring was decided. He raised this          as an Apprendi issue at the very first trial. He asked            for a bill of particulars for the ­­ the State to            indicate which aggravators it was going to rely on, and          he was denied on the grounds that Apprendi doesn't         apply.             Even the ­­ again, the central Ring problem        in this case, the central Sixth Amendment problem in         this case, leaving aside the indeterminacy of seven to         five ­­ and maybe it's three for one and four for the            other ­­ is that, when a Florida sentencing jury          finishes its work, there is simply no question: The          Alderson Reporting Company Official defendant is not eligible for the death penalty. Only          the trial judge can do that.                  Thank you.                                      CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.       The case is submitted.    (Whereupon, at : p.m., the      case in the   above­entitled matter was submitted.)    Alderson Reporting Company Official Official: allowed : : altogether : Amendment : : :,, : : : : : : :,,, : : : : :, : : : : : appropriate : : : appropriateness : areas : argue : argued : arguing :, : :, : :, : : : : : :, :, :, : :,, : :,, : :,, : :, : :,, : : : : aggravation : : aggravator : analogies : analogue : analogy : answer : : : : : : : : :, :,, :, :, :, : : : : :, : answered : answering : : :, : :,, anybody : :,, : anymore : :,, : anyway : :,, aggravators :,, Apodaca :, : : : : argument : : bar : :, :, : : : : bars : : : : : bargained : Page  B back : : : : : :,, : :, :, :,, backed : backstop : : balance : bank :, based : :, : : : :, basis : : : bear : behalf :, : :, : : : believe : : : : : :, : : :,, believed : believes : belt­and­suspend... : benefit : : : benefits :, : Bevel : beyond : : : :, :, : : :, : bill : binding :, : bit : Breyer :, :,,,, A a.m : : ability : able : above­entitled : : absence : absolutely : : : accept : : : accepted : accurate : acknowledge : acknowledged : acknowledges : acknowledging : acquitted : actual : : :, add : additional : : adjudge : admission : : : : admitted : advantages : advice : advisory : : : : : : : : : :, : arguments : Arizona : : : :,, : : aside : : : asked :, : : asking : : : assume : assuming : : : : : assumption : atrocious : : : atrociousness : attorney : authorizes : automatically :, appeal :,,, asks : aspiring : assault : : :, assign : appealed : appealing : assignment : appeals : : associated : appear : : : : :,, : Apodaca's : : : : : :,, ago : agree :, : : : : : : : : : : APPEARANCES : : : agreed : : agreeing : appellate : : affirm : : agreement : ags : : affirming : ahead : aggravated : : :,, alibi : aggravating : : :, : : : :, : : : alleged : :,,, ALLEN : : Appendix : application : applications : applied : applies : : : Apprendi : Alito : : :, :, : :, : apply : : :, Alderson Reporting Company Alderson Reporting Company Official :,,,,, : :, :, : Breyer's : : : : : : challenge : : : challenging : characterization brief :, : : : : : : committing : : common : compare : :,, : charged : : compared : : : : Chief :, :, completely : : : : brought : brutality : C C : : Caldwell :, : :,,, :, : calling : calls : capital : : :,, :,, : : conceded : concession : concessions : concluded : choice : : chooses : choosing : circumstance : : : : : : : : : : :, : conclusion : concurrence : condition : circumstances : conditions : considered : consistent : :, : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : Constitution : : constitutional Page  correct : : Daubert : : : correctly : counsel : : count : course : : : : : : : : : : : death :,, :,, :, : :, : : :,, :,, : :, :, :,, : :, : :, : : : : :, : :, : :, :, :, :, :, :, : : : : :,, :,,, : :, :, :, : :,, :, :, :, : : :,, : : court :, :, : :, : : : :,, :, : : : :, : :, :, :, : : : :, : : :, : : : : : : :, :, :,,, : : court's : : : cited : : cites : claimed : clarify : clear : : : :, : : : : : : case : :,, : : :, : : : :,,, : :,, : :,, : :, : : :,, clearly : :, :, closing : : : : cocaine :, : : : :,, : : : : :, : :,,, : colleague : : combining : come : : : :, : cases : : : : : : : caveat : : :,, central :, certain : certainly : : : : : : : :, :, :, : : : : courts : : : : : death­eligibility :, : : : death­eligible : debatable : crime :, : decide : : : : :, : : : : :, : decided : : : : : : : : :, : : constitutionality : contemporaneous : contends : contention : contesting : context : : convicted : criminal : crucial : cruel : : : : decides : : decision :, :,, : : : : : : : :, :, : :, decisions : defendant : : : :, : :, comes : : : : : : culpability : : current : coming : commission : commit : : committed : : : : conviction :, : :, : convictions : cooperator : D D : D.C :, date : Alderson Reporting Company : : : : : : differently : : : : diminished : : defendant's : defense : defines : definitions : degree : : : : : deliberate : deliberations : denied : depend : depending : depends : deposit :, described : despite : detailed : : determinate : determination : : : : : : : : : : : :,, : : : : : : : determine : :, : determined : : : : : :, : : : determines : : : determining : :, : developed : difference : : : : : : different : : : :, : : : : Official Page  : elements : : :, :, exacting : : : : : exactly : : : : : examination : example : : factual : : : : :,, : : facts : : : : eligibility : : exclusively : excuse : : : :, : :, :, : : : : exercising : :,, : exist : : : : :, existed : : : : : : : : eligible : : : existence :, : far : fatal : favor : feature : Federal : feels : felony : : : : : : :, :, : :, : Ferment : final : : : : find :, : :,, : : : : :, : : : : : :, :, :, :,, : : : : : : finder : finders : finding :,, :, : : :, :,, : : : :, : : : : : :,, : :, :,, : :,, : : : : findings : : : : : :,, : : : : : : : : : : : exists : : : : : explained : : explicit : explored : extending : extraordinarily : eyewitness : F face : fact :, : : : : : : : : : : : : : factor : : : : : : :,, : : : :, : :, :, : : : factors : : : : :, : : : : diminishes : directly : disagree : : : disagreeing : disagreement : : discretion : : dispute : distinct : distinctive : doing : : double : : : doubt : : : :, : : : : :, : E E : :, earlier : : earthly : effect : : effort : Eighth :, : :, : : : : : : : :,, :, : : : : :, : : emotions : endorse : entitled : : : entrusts : envelope : equal : equivalent : : : either :, : : : : : error :,, : : : especially : : :, ESQ :, :, : : : established : : : : establishment : : : : : : : evidence : : event : element : : : :, : : : : : :, : :, : : : : :, : : : : :,, : : :,, :,,, :, :, : : : Alderson Reporting Company finds : :, : : : : : : :, : fine : : : finished : finishes : first : : : : : : :, : first­degree : : : five : : force :,, form : former : found :, : : : : : : : :, :, : : : : : : : : : :,, : : : : :, : four : : Official God : goes : : : : : :, : hear : heard : : : hearing : going :, : : : :, : :, : : : : : : : good : : heinous :, : : : : : : held : : : : : : : : historical : grams :,, history :, : : honestly : great : greater : : Honor : : : : : Gregg :,, : : : : :, : : hope : horrible : :, :, hundred­and­fift... : : : : : hung :, : G guilt/innocence : guilty : : : : : : : : guilt : : functions : funny : functional : functionally : : : : : :, : :,, Franklin : :, :, function : : grounds : : guess : : Fla : guidance : Florida : :, :, :, : :,, :, :, :, : :, : : : : : : G : :, :, : :,, General : generic : : :, : Georgia : : :, : : : getting :, : : :, :, : :,, Ginsburg : : :, :,, :, : H half : hand : handwriting : happen :, : : : :, : :,, : :, :, happened : gain :,, : Florida's : :,, : : flurry : focus : focusing : follow : followed : following : : give :, : : : : : happens : : given : : : : : : : giving : go : : : happy : harm : : : : harmless :, :, : : harmlessness : : : go­around : : : : Hurst : :, :, : : hypothesizing : hypothetical : : : : :, : :,, : :, : : : hypotheticals : : I idea : : identified : identifier : imagine : : implicate : implicit : : Page  implies : imply : important : impose :, : : : : : : imposed : : imposing : imposition : : : impossible : improper : included : : includes : including : : : incommensurate : independent :, : independently : indeterminacy : indicate : indicated : : indicates : indite : influence : informant : : initial : input : : : : instance : : : : instances : instruct : instructed : :, : : : : : : instruction : :, instructions : insufficient : Alderson Reporting Company : : : intensely : interesting : involved : irrelevant : : issue : : : : : J Joint : Jones : : judge :,, :,,, : :,,,, :, :, : : : :,, :, : :, :, :, : :,, : :,, : :,, :, :, : :,, : :,, :,,,, : : :, :,, : :, :, : : : :, : judge's :, :,, : : judgment : : :, : judicial : : :, juries : : juror : jurors : :, :, :, jury : :,,, :, :, Official :,, : : : : killed : : killing : : :,, :,, : :, : : :,, : :,, : : : :,,, :, Justice :, :, :, :,, : : : :,, :, :, :, :, :, : :,, : :,,, : : : :,,, : :, :, Kagan's : :,, : :,,,, :,, : Kennedy : :,, : : :, :,,,, :,,,, :,,, :,,, : :,, : :, :,,,, :,,, : kind : :,, : kinds : :, :,, : :,, : :,,, :,, : knew :, : :,, : :, :, know : : :, :,, : : : :,,, :,,, :,,,, :,,, :,,,,, :,, : : :,, : : :, :,,,, :,,, :, :, :,,,, :,,, :,,, : :,, : :, :, :, :, :,,, :, :, :,,,, :, :, :,,, :,,,, :,,,, :,,, :,, : : :, :, :, :,,, :, :,, : : : :,,, :, : : : : : :, :,,, : : :, :,, : :,,, :,,,, :, :,, :, :, :,,,, :,, :, :,, : : : :,, : : :,, : :, : : : : : : :, :, :, :, : : : : :, : : : : : : knows : lack : large : largely : law : : : : L Page  : led : LEE : Lee­Lee :, : leeway : legal : legislature : : : : legislature's : lesser : let's : : : levels : life : : :,, : : : : :, : :,, :, :, : life­override : life­slash­death : light : : limited : limiting : limits : little : : long : : :,, : look : : : : : : looked :, looks : lot : : M main : : : : : : : : :, :, :, majority : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : maker : : making : : lawyers : leads : leave : leaving : : manifestly : man : : jury's :, : : : : justices : :, : juvenile : :, : :, : :, :, Kagan : : :, : : : K Alderson Reporting Company Official offense : : particularly : marker : matter : : : murder :, multiple : : : : : : :,, : :, : :, : : offenses : officer : Oh : : :, : : :,, : : : : : : okay :, : : :,,, : :, :,, : : :, : : :, :, : : : : : : once : :, McDonald : mean : : : : : : : : : : : : murdered : : : : muster : : : : meaning : means : members :, memorandum : mental : : : N N :, : narrowing : necessarily : : : : necessary : : : : : : : onward : opinion : : : : opposed : opposite : : : opposition : oral : :, : : necessity :, need : :, : : : order : : mention : ordered : mercy : ordinary : mere : merely : : needed : ought : meth :, : needles : outside : needn't : overcome : never :, :, override : :, : Page  plainly : please : : plenty : point : : : : : : : : : :, : : : : particulars : pass : pecuniary :, : penalty : :, : : : pointed : : :, :, : Popeye's : : : : portions : : :, positing : : : : position : :, :, :, : positively : : people : : posits : : possession : performing : : : possible : possibly : : post :, post­conviction performs : permissible : permit : : permits : permitted :, power : person : : precedent : :, :, : :, :, : : : : precedents : : : : : personally : : overrode : overrule :,, petitioner :, :, : : overturning : overwritten : : precisely : precondition : predicate : : : predicated : phase : :, premeditated : premeditation : :,, : :,, : :, : : :, prepared : : : : presence : : : : : : :, presented : : physical :, picked :, piece : : pins : place : plain : : :, : principally : prior : : : probably : : : minimizes : minimum : :, minority : minute : minutes :, misleading : misleadingly : missed : Mississippi : mists : mitigating : : : mits : : model : moment : money : moral : : move : : : : : new : nine : : normal : notion : : : notwithstanding : : : number : : : P P : :, :, : p.m : page : : :, : O paper : O : : papers : objection : parole : obvious :, part : : occurred : : particular : October : : : : Alderson Reporting Company Official relative : reliability : reliance : rely : : :, relying : : : problem : :, R : : :,, raised : : :, :, raising : ratifies : real : : realize : really : : proceed : proceeding : : proceedings : proceeds : process : : produce : Proffitt : proper : properly : proportionality :, : reason : : : : : :, : remains : remand : remanded :, reminded : reasonable : : rendered :, : :, : : : : : :, require : : renders : repeatedly : proposing : protections : proven : : REBUTTAL : reasons : : : : : : provide : : provides : punishment : receive : recognize : recognized : :, : :, : : : required : : requires : : : : : : : : requiring : Page  Ring :, : : saying :, : :, : says :, : reviews : reweigh : right :, : :, : : : : :, : : : :, : :, : :, : :,, : : : : : : : Scalia :,,, :, : : :, : :, : :, :,, : :,, : : :,, :, : : :,, :, : : : : : :,, :, : Scalia's : : :,,,, Schad :, : : :, : : : : : : :, :,, :,, : : :,, second : : selection : : :,, : : : : :, sense : : scheme : : schemes : : : : purely : purpose : : purposes : put : : : Q question : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : :, :, : : recommend : : : : : : : recommendation :, : : respectfully : : : : Respondent : :, : : : : :, : : : : : : response : responsibility : : resentence : resentencing :, robbery :,, reserve : :, :, : : :, respect : : : : : : : ROBERTS : : :, :, : : : : : role : room : : : : :, rule : result : return : : : reversed : : : reversing : review : : :,, : reviewable : : reviewing :, S S : : satisfiable : satisfied : :, : : : : : satisfies : satisfy : : : : saw : : sent :, sentence : : : :, : :, :,, : :, : : : : : :, :, :, : :, : : : : :,, sentenced : : sentencer : sentences : : sentencing : : : : : : : recommendations : recommended : : : recommends : record : Recuenco : questioning : questions : quite : :, Red :, quote : : :, R refer : : rejected : rejecting : relates : Alderson Reporting Company Official Sposiano : stage : : Sixth :, : : : :, :, :, stand : : slip : Smith's :, : stands : Solicitor : somebody : :, state : :, standard : : : : : someone's : : : sorry : : : :,, : : : : : : : : : : :, :,, : :, :, :, :, : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : stated : statement : States :, : : :, :, sort : SOTOMAYOR :, :, :, :, statute : : :,,,, : :, : :, :, :, :,, :,,,, : :, :,,, :, : : :,, : : :, : :, : : : statutory : : Steele :, : : : suggestion : suggests : support : : supported : supports :, Suppose : : : : supposed : Supreme :, : :, : : :, : : : : :, :, : :, : : sure :, : : : : : : : surprised : surprises : sustain : sustains : system :, :, : : :,, : : : :, : : : : : :, : : : :,,, :, :, : : : :, : : : : : :, : sentencing­phase : separate : : : : : seriousness : serves : set : SETH : :, : : setting :, seven : : : :, : : : :, :, : : seven­to­five : : : sexual : shoplifting : : side : : : simply : : : : : : : single : sit :, sitting : situation : :, :, situations : six : : : : :, six­six : simple : : sounds : : : : special : : : step : street : structural : stuff : subject : : take : : submit : submitted : taken : talking : : T :, T species : specific : : : :, :, : : : : : specifically : : : :, substantial : : substituted : substitutes : substituting : specified : : : : : : : specify : specifying : sufficient : : : suggested : suggesting : :, : Tallahassee : tantamount : telepathy : tell : : : : : : : : tells : : ten : :, terms : : testified : Alderson Reporting Company Page  testimony : Thank : : :, theoretical : theoretically : thing : : : :, : things : : : :, : think : : : :, :,, :,, : : :, : : : :, :,, : :, : : : :, : : : : : thinks : Thomas : thoroughly : thought : : :, : : threat :,,,, three : : : : : threshold : throw : : throwing : :, throws : time : : Timothy : : :, told :, : : : : : : :, :, :,, : :,, :, :, : :, : :,, :,, tossed : toting : tradition : treat : trial :, :, : : : : : : : : : : : trials : true :, : : :, : trying : Tuesday : twelve : two : : : : : : : : : : :,, :, : :, :, two­aggravator : : : underlying : understand : : :, : understanding : unduly : United :, : universe : unlawful : unquestionably : unusual :, upheld : upholding : use : usual :, utterly : V v : : : : two­part : typical : :,, : : : variety : Uh­huh : : various : U : ultimate : ultimately : : unanimity : :, :, : unanimous : : :, : :, :,,, :,, : vastly : verdict : : :, : : : : : : : : versus : : victim : view :, : : : violate : violated : virtue : : vote : : : : : votes : : whatnot : wide : Winsor : : W : wants : Washington :, wait : waiver : : waivers : waiving : Walton : want : : : : : :,, :, :,,, :,,, :, :,,, :,,,,, :,,,, :,, :, :, : :,,, :,, : : :, :, :, wasn't : : : :, : : : :, :, Waxman : : :, : : :,, : :,, : :, :,, :,, : :, :, : :,, : :,, : :,, :, :,, : :,, :, :, :,, : : : : : :,, :,, : :, :,,,, wishes : :,, :, :, :, word : : : : :,, words : : withstanding : way : : : : : ways : : : We'll : we're : : : : : work :, : world : wouldn't :, : : : written : wrong : : X Z : : : : : : : :, ­person : : : : ­ : : : : : : : : : : : :,,, : : : Official Page  : : unconstitutionally violent : weight :, : Yeah : : weren't :, years : yield : unanimously : violates : : we've : : x :, : : :, unconstitutional : : : : violating : violation : weigh : : : : weighing : Y Y : unconstitutionality : : : : : Alderson Reporting Company 