Official          IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES      ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ x                                  HUSKY INTERNATIONAL                 : ELECTRONICS, INC.,                  :             Petitioner                : No. ­         v.                          DANIEL LEE RITZ, JR.                  : : ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ x                                                         Washington, D.C.                         Tuesday, March ,                  The above­entitled matter came on for oral       argument before the Supreme Court of the United States         at : a.m.   APPEARANCES: SHAY DVORETZKY, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf of           Petitioner. SARAH E. HARRINGTON, ESQ., Assistant to the Solicitor              General, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; for       United States, as amicus curiae, supporting         Petitioner. ERIN E. MURPHY, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf of            Respondent. Alderson Reporting Company Official                                    C O N T E N T S ORAL ARGUMENT OF                                     SHAY DVORETZKY, ESQ.    PAGE    On behalf of the Petitioner                            ORAL ARGUMENT OF   SARAH E. HARRINGTON, ESQ.          For United States, as amicus curiae,      supporting the Petitioner                            ORAL ARGUMENT OF   ERIN E. MURPHY, ESQ.       On behalf of the Respondent                            REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF   SHAY DVORETZKY, ESQ.      On behalf of the Petitioner                            Alderson Reporting Company Official                                       P R O C E E D I N G S                                            (: a.m.)              CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument       next in Case No. ­, Husky International Electronics        v. Ritz.              Mr. Dvoretzky.               ORAL ARGUMENT OF SHAY DVORETZKY                    ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER                 MR. DVORETZKY: Mr. Chief Justice, and may        it please the Court:                Congress amended the discharge bar in       to add actual fraud as an additional ground for barring          discharge. That amendment must be given meaning. Our          interpretation is the only one that does so.                    Consistent with the common­law understanding     that Congress codified, "actual fraud" is a term of art           that includes a recipient's knowing participation in a         deliberate fraudulent transfer. By contrast, the Fifth        Circuit's holding that actual fraud invariably requires       a misrepresentation makes Congress's amendment     superfluous because it equates actual fraud with the        preexisting terms, "false pretenses" and "false      representation."             Respondent's interpretation is even worse.     It merely restates a preexisting scienter requirement.        Alderson Reporting Company Official And in any event, Congress could not plausibly have         added "or actual fraud" to the discharge bar in order to           modify the previous terms to mean intentional false        pretenses or an intentional false representation.                  CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You'd ­­ you'd       acknowledge, wouldn't you, that if the language we used         in Field against Mans is applicable, or if we meant it,           that you lose? Some degree of reliance is required to           satisfy the element of causation inherent in the phrase         "obtained by"?              MR. DVORETZKY: I don't think that language         is applicable here, because that language has to be ­­                     CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: No, no. I       understand, and I understand your argument there. But          if it is, if we think that language does apply across           the board, you certainly lose.                 MR. DVORETZKY: Yes, if you believe that       "obtained by" invariably requires reliance, but it does        not. The ­­ the language in Field was in the context of             a misrepresentation case. What obtained by requires is         causation. In the context of a fraudulent transfer          where the recipient knowingly participates in a       deliberate fraudulent transfer, centuries of common law       established that he commits actual fraud himself. He         therefore obtains the property by actual fraud. That's         Alderson Reporting Company Official that ­­             JUSTICE GINSBURG: But you would have to ­­        you would have to show down the road that the ­­ the            money was obtained by Ritz. Because as I understand it,            it was transferred from the first company to a bunch of            other companies, not to Mr. Ritz himself.                   MR. DVORETZKY: That ­­ that's correct,       Justice Ginsburg. Down the road, we would need to show           that our State law veil­piercing theory is correct.                    That, however, is not the basis on which the         Fifth Circuit rejected our claim. The Fifth Circuit         rejected our claim on the sole ground that it thought          actual fraud invariably requires a misrepresentation.                   JUSTICE KENNEDY: Would you have to show        under State law not only the veil­piercing ­­         that there's veil piercing, but that there is fraud under         State law?              MR. DVORETZKY: Correct. We would need to         show two things under State law: First of all, that           Ritz orchestrated a fraudulent transfer by transferring        assets from Chrysalis to his other entities in order to          hinder creditors.              Second of all, we would have to show that he          perpetrated that fraud for his own personal benefit,        which is what would then allow us to pierce the          Alderson Reporting Company Official corporate veil and hold him personally liable for the         fraud that he committed.                JUSTICE KAGAN: Are you piercing the       corporate veil as to the first company, or as to the           transferee companies?              MR. DVORETZKY: We are piercing the ­­ it         could be either, but ­­ but I think we are piercing the             veil as to the transferee companies because we're        pursuing this on a recipient theory.                   JUSTICE KAGAN: Right. Because ­­ because I         understood your whole brief to be pursuing this on a          recipient theory.                          MR. DVORETZKY: Correct.   JUSTICE KAGAN: And your brief, you know,        makes some sense as that. But then when you look back            to your complaint, it suggests that the veil­piercing        actually was attempted as to the transferor company,        which doesn't do you any good under your theory.                     MR. DVORETZKY: So the complaint fully spells       out all of the details related to the transfers. And           generally ­­ this is at Joint Appendix ­­ asks for           avoidance of all fraudulent transfers to the extent        necessary to satisfy plaintiff's claims. Throughout the        litigation, the claims were then pursued on a transferee          theory. The Fifth Circuit understood the claim that way          Alderson Reporting Company Official and rejected it solely because, again, the lack of a          misrepresentation.              The problem with the Fifth Circuit's     interpretation is that it nullifies Congress's      amendment, or actual fraud. It makes it meaningless         simply by restating the previous terms, "false       pretenses" or "false representations." When Congress       added "or actual fraud" to the discharge bar, it was          legislating against the backdrop of hundreds of years of         common­law usage of that term.                 For centuries, courts had used "actual      fraud" to refer to fraudulent transfers.                  JUSTICE BREYER: I ­­ I know. And I'm            rather slightly self­regarding the statement. But, I        mean, , years ago, I had a case on fraudulent             conveyance where my law clerk looked up every single         case in sight, poor man. And we went back to Queen            Elizabeth, and I wrote down what I thought it was.            Well, obviously, that affects my ­­ my ­­ my thinking on           this. And I don't have any way of knowing that it's             still ­­ what I wrote was correct. It's called           Burnazos, if you want to look at it. But not now.                        The ­­ but the point of the classical        examples that we found ­­ let's take one of them ­­ is a             person knowing that he's about ­­ has creditors. He has           Alderson Reporting Company Official to know that he has creditors. Maybe he knows of the            insolvency, and he transfers money to his wife rather         than to the creditors. And she knows it too, and this            is a way of getting the money away.                                             That's a fraud classic, right?      MR. DVORETZKY: Yes.    JUSTICE BREYER: Okay. So now when I look           at the statute, I see these words: To the extent that             it's a debt, it's a debt obtained by actual fraud.                        Now, wait. Whose debt are we talking about?         We're talking about Creditor C, who was a creditor of           the transferor. And it's the transferee, the ­­ the          wife who obtained ­­ she's the one who's got the money.           And so it sounds like the bankruptcy statute is saying          she's the one in her bankruptcy. Now, that can't be           right. And so ­­ so how is this supposed to work?                          I mean, now you're ­­ the obvious question       to ask you is the question, if it doesn't mean          representation, give me one example of what it does         mean. Well, I just gave you one, and as you can see,              I'm ­­ I'm quite confused as to how that works. And I             haven't seen another one.                MR. DVORETZKY: I think the way your         hypothetical works, Justice Breyer, is that the       recipient in that instance, the wife ­­      Alderson Reporting Company Official JUSTICE BREYER: Uh­huh    MR. DVORETZKY: ­­ commits actual fraud       JUSTICE BREYER: Yeah.    MR. DVORETZKY: And when she commits actual                                herself.                         fraud herself, she incurs her own debts.                   JUSTICE BREYER: So for the fee ­­ the         problem with her is she is not trying to deceive a           creditor of hers. She is not ­­ she is not trying to             deceive her creditor, it's the transferor whose       creditors are being fraudulently deceived.                 MR. DVORETZKY: True. But if she is         conspiring, in effect, with the transferor, she is        facilitating his fraud.               JUSTICE BREYER: All right. So you're        saying in a bankruptcy of the wife, this is money           obtained by fraud, which it is. And the fact that she's            helped him defraud his creditors is sufficient to bring         us under the Massachusetts Statute. It's copied         from the UCC, which ultimately is traced back to the          Statute of Elizabeth. That's how it works?                                            MR. DVORETZKY: Yes.    JUSTICE BREYER: Thank you.     MR. DVORETZKY: She ­­ she commits ­­ she         commits fraud. In the course of committing, fraud she          Alderson Reporting Company Official obtains money. She then has a debt for that money, and             it's nondischargeable under (a)()(A).                            JUSTICE BREYER: Thank you.     MR. DVORETZKY: That understanding is      consistent with the common­law understanding of actual       fraud, which is what Congress codified in order to add          an additional ground for discharge. The legislative        history of the Code makes clear that Congress was          adding an additional ground for discharge, so it was         expanding ­­ an additional ground for barring discharge,        excuse me. So it was expanding the scope of the           discharge bar.              JUSTICE KAGAN: It does make the language        "false pretenses" or "false representations" completely      superfluous, yes?              MR. DVORETZKY: It does, but the key point         here is that it also expands upon that language, whereas          the Fifth Circuit's ­­ the Fifth Circuit's       interpretation also makes "false pretenses" and "false       representations" superfluous without giving Congress's     amendment any additional work to do.                  So too for Respondent's interpretation,     which first of all, merely restates a preexisting         scienter requirement, so it gives the amendment no        additional broadening scope. And second of all, is         Alderson Reporting Company Official grammatically indefensible because "or actual fraud" is       not a narrowing phrase that modifies what comes before          it.             Congress could perhaps have simply replaced      "false pretenses" and "false representations" with "or       actual fraud," but that might have led to an unwarranted          negative inference by the deletion of terms "false        pretenses" and "false representations" that had been in        the statute for a very long time.                    JUSTICE GINSBURG: So you ­­ you would like         the Court to ­­ to hold that "actual fraud" means          something other than false pretenses or      misrepresentation; that it's ­­ it's a broader term, it          includes things that were not already included, period,        and then whatever other issues would be ­­ to be          resolved on remand?               MR. DVORETZKY: That's ­­ that's correct,       Justice Ginsburg.              With respect to Respondent's interpretation,     first of all, as we established in our reply brief,          false pretenses and false representations already      required intentional fraud. No court had interpreted        those terms in the discharge bar before to apply to           innocent conduct, and so there is no basis to think that           when Congress added "or actual fraud" to the statute, it          Alderson Reporting Company Official was simply restating an existing rule.                  This Court has, in the past, refused to        infer ­­ to interpret congressional amendments simply to        restate existing rules when there is a plausible ­­         indeed, settled, in light of the common­law ­­       understanding, like the one that we offer that gives the          amendment an additional function.                The other problem with Respondent's     interpretation, of course, is grammatical. "Or" is a         disjunctive term that expands on what comes before; it's         not a term that limits what comes before.                     And moreover, "actual fraud" is a noun        phrase that in ­­ that represents both conduct; fraud,         and the way in which it is carried out, intentionally.          It's not simply a mens rea.                   CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Why did Congress       take the term "fraud" out of the Bankruptcy Act in ?                       MR. DVORETZKY: The legislative history      doesn't tell us why Congress did that. What we do know            is that when Congress took out that term in , at           least one legislator expressed concern that this was        leaving a category of frauds outside the discharge bar,          and that that was a mistake because the ­­ the purpose            of the discharge bar has long been to afford relief only           for the honest but unfortunate debtor and not to allow          Alderson Reporting Company Official the Bankruptcy Code to be used for an engine for fraud.                       In , Congress closed that gap by adding        the additional ground for discharge back in.                   CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So all ­­ all you've         got in is one ­­ one legislator.                    MR. DVORETZKY: Yes. We have one legislator         expressing the concern ­­               CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I have a big ­­ this            isn't necessarily hostile to your position, but it's        kind of a big change to take fraud out of a bankruptcy              statute. I mean, nobody seems to know why.                      MR. DVORETZKY: Nobody seems to know why.        We don't dispute, of course, that typically, most        commonly frauds will involve misrepresentations, and so       those frauds were still covered. And of course, as a           result of Congress's drafting, there are other discharge        bars that apply to narrower types of ­­ narrow and          different types of fraud.                And so Congress didn't completely forget      about fraud in . It did, however, take it out of            this particular discharge bar, over the concern       expressed by at least one ­­ one legislator.                    In the interim period, between and       , courts did note that the discharge bar in effect          at that time covered only false pretenses and false         Alderson Reporting Company Official representations, and that there was in fact a gap. And            then in , as part of a comprehensive overhaul of the            Bankruptcy Code, Congress closed that gap.                  And so we submit that this Court should        interpret the ­­ the discharge bar in a way that gives            full effect to Congress's amendment. Our interpretation        is consistent with the plain common­law meaning of the         words "actual fraud." It does not require grammatical         distortions, and it accords with the purpose of the         discharge bar, which is, again, to provide relief only         for honest debtors and not to allow the Bankruptcy Code          to be used as an engine for fraud in the way that            occurred in this case.                JUSTICE KAGAN: Ms. Murphy points out that        there are lots of other provisions in (a), which have          a lot of overlap on this provision on your reading. And            then also the fraudulent conveyance provisions, if you        would talk a little bit about those.                    MR. DVORETZKY: Sure. Let me address the         fraudulent conveyance provisions first.                The fraudulent conveyance provisions are     targeted at the transferor, not the transferee. And so          our reading of complements those provisions rather        than conflicts with them.                 provides that there is no discharge at        Alderson Reporting Company Official all if a debtor transfers assets to ­­ to hinder           creditors within a year of the bankruptcy filing.                      allows the trustee to pursue claims for        transfers within two years, but nothing about our        reading of is inconsistent with that. It simply          provides that, in addition to those things, creditors        may pursue fraud claims where there is a fraudulent          transfer against the ­­ the transferee. And if the          transferee ends up in a double bankruptcy situation, so          to speak, then at that point, complements the other          provisions.             With respect to the other discharge bars       that address fraud, there is inevitably some overlap        among these discharge bars. Partly that's a result of           Congress's drafting. Congress chose to use the word         "fraud" in multiple places, and so you're going to have          overlap as a result of that. Partly it is a result of a                belt­and­suspenders approach to effectuate the policy of       ensuring, again, that fraudulent debtors don't get away        with their fraud.               Our reading, however, does not lead to any        more overlap than Respondent's reading does. Either        way, there is going to be overlap between the false          pretenses and false representations type of fraud, which        Respondent thinks (a)()(A) is limited to. And        Alderson Reporting Company Official fiduciary fraud, for example, under (a)(), if that        fiduciary fraud takes the form of a false pretense or a            false representation.              JUSTICE BREYER: All right. My question, so         I better ask ­­ no. Go. You go. I'll ask ­­ I don't                 want to take your time.                 MR. DVORETZKY: So the overlap is       inevitable. That's not a reason to prefer Respondent's          interpretation when our interpretation also gives      Congress's amendment additional work to do.                  Briefly, with respect to (a)(), it's not at        all clear that this ­­ this conduct would fit within          (a)(), which has a higher standard, willful and         malicious injury, not just reckless disregard, which is        sufficient to establish actual fraud.                 time.                                     If I may, I'll reserve the remainder of my          CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.       JUSTICE BREYER: I'll ask. Ask.       CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Ms. Harrington.                          ORAL ARGUMENT OF SARAH E. HARRINGTON      FOR UNITED STATES, AS AMICUS CURIAE,                     SUPPORTING THE PETITIONER               MS. HARRINGTON: Thank you, Mr. Chief       Justice, and may it please the Court:       Alderson Reporting Company Official             The Court of Appeals erred in holding that        Section (a)()(A) always requires proof of an       intentional misrepresentation in order to prove actual       fraud. There are three main reasons why Petitioner and          the government are right about our interpretation of        Section (a)()(A).                 The first is that this Court has said many      times that when Congress uses a term that has an           established common­law meaning, courts should give it       that meaning when it's used in a statute.                     For centuries, the term "actual fraud" has       been used at common law to refer to schemes that are           in ­­ that ­­ that where property is transferred with          the ­­ with the intent to hinder, delay, or defraud a           creditor. There is no reason to give that text any           different meaning than in Section (a)()(a).                  The second is that our view is the only         thing that ­­ the only interpretation that gives any         meaning to the amendment.                 And the third is that our view is consistent         with Congress's overarching purpose and the Bankruptcy       Code, that ­­ that dishonors creditors ­­ excuse me ­­         dishonors debtors, not be permitted to use the Code to          get rid of their debts.                 Now, Respondent offers a competing textual       Alderson Reporting Company Official interpretation of the term ­­ of the phrase "or actual          fraud." I think Petitioner has explained well why that           interpretation doesn't make any sense as an ­­ as a          grammatical matter. It also wouldn't give any effect to          the amendment.               Petitioner also relies on the ­­ on the word         "obtained," which Justice Breyer was referring to as        well. Excuse me. Respondent does ­­ Respondent         suggests that our interpretation doesn't give any       meaning to the word "obtained," if obtained doesn't mean         that a false representation was directed at a creditor.                       But under our view, the word "obtained"       actually does two things: The first thing it does is           the work that this Court described it as doing in          Cohen v. de la Cruz, which is it requires a causal            connection between the fraudulent act and the debtor's        acquisition of ­­ or possession of the property or         money.             But the second thing it does, in the        fraudulent transfer context, specifically, is it sort of        screens out the innocent recipient of a fraudulent         transfer. And so if Congress had instead used the          phrase "obtained as a result of actual fraud," then          argue ­­ arguably, that could have brought in an         innocent recipient of a fraudulent transfer, because as         Alderson Reporting Company Official a result, I would suggest that you focus on the           transaction that caused the transfer of property.                    But "obtained by" really focuses on the      action of the recipient. And so it really just gets at            the recipient's mental state and ­­ and fraudulent        activity.             JUSTICE BREYER: That's the part ­­ you see,         it's still gnawing at me is I wish you had read this             case. Because ­­ because when we went through it,          this ­­ this sentence, fraudulent ­­ and I wouldn't          raise this, except the only example other than the         misrepresentation that you've come up with is the        fraudulent conveyance.              And what I said, after reading all ­­        "fraudulent conveyance law permits creditors to recover       money that a debtor has disposed of in a manner            similar," and then I described three paradigm cases.                     All right. So what they're thinking of is a          transferor has creditors. And what he did well before          going into bankruptcy, but he knew he was likely to be           insolvent, the transferor transfers money to his friends        rather than the creditors, to a place that it's hard to            get at, you know, to somebody who is going to ­­ all            right.             Now, looking at this statute, it seems to me         Alderson Reporting Company Official that the person whose debt is going to survive         bankruptcy is not the transferor, because normally,       fraudulent conveyance law permitted his bankruptcy judge       to claw back the money. But that's not what you're           talking about. You're talking about the transferee, and         you're saying here, the transferee's participation in       the transferor's effort to defraud his creditor is        something that also survives.                And at that point I ask, of all the bad           things that people can do that might survive, why in          heaven's name do they pick on this one in respect to the            transferee? I mean, after all, maybe the transferee          robbed a bank. I mean, there are all kinds of bad              things that might survive, and ­­ and don't.                    So was ­­ so am I ­­ something's wrong with           my analysis, as you understand it, and that's what I've          got to get into my head.                  MS. HARRINGTON: Well, see, there are all        kinds of debts that ­­ that do survive a bankruptcy,           including the debt for the transferor.                  JUSTICE BREYER: Yeah. If I got what I'm           talking about right, in terms of the debt.                    MS. HARRINGTON: Well ­­ so I think it is           important to realize there are two distinct debts:        There's the original debtor ­­ there's original debt        Alderson Reporting Company Official from the creditor to debtor one. Debtor one transfers          his property to a friend. If the friend ­­ with the             intent to defraud his creditor. If the friend shares          that intent, then the State law or some Federal law          gives the creditor a cause of action to go after the            recipient, to go after the friend.                  If that ­­ if that is successful, then        there's a new debt that's created from ­­ to the           creditor from the ­­ from the friend. And that's the           debt we're talking about here.                 With respect to why that wouldn't be       dischargeable, when ­­ if you're outside the time limits         that are covered by or , the transferors         wouldn't ­­ it's because the transferee, the recipient,        is the person who ends up with the money or the           property, right?              So the second overarching purpose of the       Bankruptcy Code is to let creditors get their money back          when they can. And so it makes sense that Congress           would have wanted to give maybe a stronger remedy ­­                                  JUSTICE BREYER: I see.      MS. HARRINGTON: ­­ against the person who        actually has the stuff at the end of the day.                      And so I think that's why our ­­ our reading           is consistent with the purpose of the ­­ of the Code in            Alderson Reporting Company Official general.             CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Is ­­ is the veil         piercing that's going on here with respect to Chrysalis         as well, or just the companies to which Chrysalis's         assets were shifted?               MS. HARRINGTON: Well, you know, Mr.       Dvorestzky suggested that it's ­­ with ­­ with respect         to the recipients, recipient corporations, I think that         there ­­ there are many questions about the State law          cause of action that would need to be resolved on remand           if the Court were to reverse.                  And I would just point out, on ­­ on the           final page of our brief, we have the text of the veil            piercing ­­ the Texas veil piercing, such that in ­­ in           order ­­ in order to prevail under that section, the          Petitioner is going to have to prove it says an actual           fraud for the direct personal benefit of the holder.         And so they're basically going to have to prove that          Mr. Ritz obtained money or property by actual fraud, in          order to prevail under the State law cause of action.                      CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So how does that        work in the bankruptcy case? We say this debt can't be            discharged, but maybe it will turn out that it could          have been, depending on how ­­ how the State law claim           goes? Alderson Reporting Company Official             MS. HARRINGTON: There's ­­ so what happens        is there's an adversary proceeding in the bankruptcy ­­        in the larger bankruptcy proceeding itself. And so         instead of having parallel litigation in State court,        that action was stayed when the bankruptcy petition was         filed. And basically, all the action is transferred to          the bankruptcy court.               CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So the bankruptcy       court will decide the question under State law?                    MS. HARRINGTON: Yes, yes.                 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Okay.                 MS. HARRINGTON: And the bankruptcy court       held that it ­­ it wasn't satisfied in this case,          because the bankruptcy court viewed those Texas laws as         requiring a misrepresentation, and also as (a)()(a)        is requiring misrepresentation.               And so I think there ­­ there are a lot of             things that would need to be sorted out about the State           law cause of action on remand.                    I just want to say one last thing on        redundancy, if I could. There's a couple of           specific provisions in that the Respondent suggests        are redundant. One of them is (a)(), and Respondent          suggests that ­­ and that's the ­­ that covers fraud in           a fiduciary capacity, such that if we're correct that         Alderson Reporting Company Official anything that would be covered by (a)() would ­­ would          also be covered by (a)()(A).                 But that's not correct, because (a)() is       not ­­ is not limited to situations in which money or           property was obtained by fraud. And so it could cover a            fraud where a fiduciary caused one of your properties to           go to a third party. And ­­ and so that would be              covered by (a)() and wouldn't be covered by (a)()(a).                     And just in general, one last thing on        redundancy, I think Congress is trying to be         comprehensive in preventing dishonest debtors from      discharging their debts in bankruptcy. And so Congress         used broad words like "fraud," and instead of sitting         down and thinking ­­ trying to think up every different          fraudulent scheme that people might come up with,        Congress just wanted to be comprehensive and say        "fraud," and it uses the same word "fraud" in multiple          places. That's going to create overlap. But that's a           feature of the system, and not a flaw in the system.                        Thank you.              CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.                   Ms. Murphy.               ORAL ARGUMENT OF ERIN E. MURPHY                     ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT                 MS. MURPHY: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it         Alderson Reporting Company Official please the Court:               Section (a)() applies to a specific type        of debt, a debt for something with which the debtor has            fraudulently induced the creditor to part. That        conclusion follows from the text of the statute for at          least three reasons: First, because the statute        expressly says that the debt has to be for something          obtained by the debtor's conduct; second, because the        statute explicitly and repeatedly talks about forms of        conduct where the debtor obtains something by inducing        detrimental reliance; and third, because the statute       makes clear on its face that it's the creditor whose          detrimental reliance has to be induced.                  Because Section (a)() applies only when      the debtor induces the creditor to part with something,         it does not apply to a debt for receiving money through            a fraudulent conveyance. That may be a form of fraud.            It may well be a form of actual fraud, but it's not a              form of fraud that gives rise to a debt that is subject             to exception from discharge under (a)().                  JUSTICE GINSBURG: Well, what ­­ what would        Congress have to write to cover a scheme like this?                       MS. MURPHY: Well, I think ­­                   JUSTICE GINSBURG: You say it's not covered        under (a)().  Alderson Reporting Company Official             MS. MURPHY: Sure. I think the most natural           way to do it would be by saying "fraudulent conveyance"          or "fraudulent transfer" or a "fraud that involves         intent to delay, defraud or ­­ or hinder a creditor."           Those are the terms that Congress uses when it's         legislating about fraudulent conveyance, which Congress      has done repeatedly and pervasively for a hundred and          fifty years.              If you look at the fraudulent conveyance       statutes, not a single one of them uses this term           "actual fraud." So this is not a term that's           associated, particularly with ­­               JUSTICE BREYER: Well, you have the        Massachusetts statute copied from the Uniform Commercial       Code, which, in referring to fraudulent conveyance in        Section , uses these words: "Each conveyance made with          actual intent as distinguished from intent presumed in        law to" ­­ da, da, da ­­ "hinder, delay, or defraud           present or future creditors is fraudulent."                  MS. MURPHY: Sure.                JUSTICE BREYER: I grant they did use the          word "actual intent," rather than "actual intent to        hinder delay, defraud," and then they said it is         fraudulent. That sounds an awful lot like the words          "actual fraud."  Alderson Reporting Company Official             MS. MURPHY: And ­­ and to be clear, we          don't dispute that fraudulent conveyance is a form of          actual fraud. It's just not a form of actual fraud that             falls within the scope of this particular exception        because this exception says more than just the words         "actual fraud." It says that you have to have a debt             for money, property, services or credit to the extent         obtained by false pretenses, false representations and       ­­                                    JUSTICE BREYER: Well, a ­­      MS. MURPHY: ­­ actual fraud.      JUSTICE BREYER: The ­­ the friend who        obtained the $, which the friend knew was owed to          the creditor of the transferor has obtained money, money         through ­­ it is a debt. She owes the debt. She now               owes the debt to the creditors of the transferor because          she has the , knowing that it's wrongly conveyed.         So she now owes the debt to the creditors, and her debt            was obtained by actual fraud.                                         MS. MURPHY: I don't think it was.         JUSTICE BREYER: Because?    MS. MURPHY: Because she didn't use the        fraud to obtain the money. And this gets back to what            you were talking about when you were giving the         hypothetical. The fraud in a fraudulent conveyance is          Alderson Reporting Company Official the first debtor concealing or misrepresenting the       nature ­­                         creditor.                                                 JUSTICE BREYER: That's true.     MS. MURPHY: ­­ of the conveyance to the         JUSTICE BREYER: But it doesn't say ­­       JUSTICE KENNEDY: We're not limited ­­      JUSTICE BREYER: Sure.    JUSTICE KENNEDY: We're not limited to       fraudulent conveyances here. You want to read the         statute and say something like for money obtained from         the innocent party in the first instance by. And          that ­­ that ­­ but fraud can continue through ­­         through a whole chain.                 MS. MURPHY: Sure and ­­ and ­­                   JUSTICE KENNEDY: And ­­ and if it continues         through the whole chain, the person on the end of the           chain may have never had any relation with the innocent          party at all.               MS. MURPHY: Well, I think that what you          need to have the fraud that comes within (a)() is          inducement. Now, the inducement, the fraudulent       inducement, it doesn't have to be direct. It's not our           position that, you know, unless the misstatement is made         expressly to the creditor, the debt doesn't count. You          Alderson Reporting Company Official can have, you know, a misstatement that you cause to be            made, that the statute actually uses that language        causing a misrepresentation to be made that the victim          at the end, the creditor ultimately relies upon.                    So we're not saying there has to be a direct           relationship here.              JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I'm totally confused      because I think ­­ I was following you up until that             last statement.              MS. MURPHY: Okay.                JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: All right?                   I was following you up to when you said that         it has to be a debt you obtain by fraud from the person.                          MS. MURPHY: Yes.                JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Whether I agree with you         or not, that's a different issue because I'm not sure           that you fully answered Justice Breyer. But I don't           understand where the inducement comes into this. Why ­­         why did ­­ you can commit fraud against a person           directly in a variety of different ways that don't          require a misrepresentation. And we know that actual          fraud doesn't, as a matter of fact, require a          misrepresentation.             MS. MURPHY: Well, as far as I can tell, and            Petitioner hasn't suggested otherwise, there's really      Alderson Reporting Company Official only two forms of fraud here. There is ­­ there is            misrepresentation or fraudulent conveyance. They really       haven't pointed to anything else. So, you know, the          question, I think, really is: Is fraudulent conveyance          supposed to be in this statute? And in this particular           statute, I think fraudulent conveyance sticks out like a          sore thumb.              JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, you just said you're        not contesting that fraudulent conveyance is a form of          actual fraud; is that right?                 MS. MURPHY: When it's done with intent, you         know, the necessary intent to make it actual fraud. But           yes, that's right.               JUSTICE KAGAN: So, now, this language ­­ I         mean, the language just seems a lot more simple than           you're making it, because you add inducement to the         language, you add from the creditor to the language.         But the language doesn't say any of those things. It           just says is there a debt? And we know that there is a               debt here. The debt is for money. The language says,            well, what has to be true of that money? It has to be              obtained by actual fraud.                And here, the money, the allegation is, was        obtained by fraudulent concealment. So whether or not         the creditor has been induced and whether or not the          Alderson Reporting Company Official money has come from the creditor seems to be irrelevant          under this very simple statutory phrase.                  MS. MURPHY: I think that there is two ­­          two problems with that, in our view.                   First, I don't agree that the fraud is how          you obtained the money. You obtained money, and by          doing so helped someone else commit a fraud on their           creditor. But you did not use fraud to obtain the money            in a fraudulent conveyance. You have been a participant            in a fraud on someone else. So I think even ­­                         JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: That leaves out every       conspiracy theory that exists. I mean, if you're          helping someone by accepting the money, you're       committing a crime.                MS. MURPHY: Right. But this statute says         more. It says that you have to obtain the money that is             what gives rise to the debt. It's a very different ­­                        JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: A conspiracy theory says        you don't have to commit every act.                               MS. MURPHY: The ­­ the question ­­       JUSTICE KAGAN: The transferee ­­ the       transferee obtains the money by way of the fraudulent         conveyance, right? How else does the transferee obtain         the money?              MS. MURPHY: The transferee obtains the       Alderson Reporting Company Official money through the transferor that decides to give them         the money, and that ­­                conveyance.             JUSTICE KAGAN: Through a fraudulent       MS. MURPHY: The fraud occurs on the back         end. Because of the transfer, there is then fraud when           the debtor effectively, you know, either conceals the        transaction, that's the fraud, or conceals the true        nature of the transaction.                JUSTICE BREYER: What about Mr. Ponzi's       cousin who, in fact, had nothing to do with any of the            misrepresentations, but knowing the entire truth says       Ponzi, my friend, when you get those bags of cash, hide           them under my bed, all right?                  Now, he himself has not, in fact, lied to         anybody or made any misrepresentations, but he's part of         the big scheme.                           MS. MURPHY: Well ­­    JUSTICE BREYER: And I take it we would say           that that money under the bed has been obtained by          actual fraud, hasn't it?                            MS. MURPHY: Not by him.      JUSTICE BREYER: Oh, so you're going to get         him off, too.               MS. MURPHY: I mean, I'm not quite sure in           Alderson Reporting Company Official your hypothetical, where, you know ­­                 JUSTICE BREYER: There was ­­ I mean, you          know, there are dozens and dozens of cases where ­­         where people do have misrepresentations. There is no         doubt there's a misrepresentation in this thing. But          after all, not every participant in the great scheme         himself lies.                          MS. MURPHY: Sure. But ­­      JUSTICE BREYER: And those people, I would         think, would ­­ you would expect to have fall within ­­          since they're part of the big Ponzi scheme, they would          be right within this statute and their debts would not          be forgiven ­­                          MS. MURPHY: Well ­­    JUSTICE BREYER: ­­ because they weren't the        ones who lied.               MS. MURPHY: (a) just ­­ it's not a         conspiracy statute. And Petitioner themselves, they       offer as their example something that doesn't fall        within (a)(), aiding and abetting somebody else's       fraud. So they ­­ they say that this is one of the ways              in which this statute ­­ you know, they have to give           some theories as to what narrows this statute so that it           doesn't completely swallow the additional fraud      provisions that Congress has added here. And that's         Alderson Reporting Company Official part of their theory, is that, you know, you do have to            have used the fraud to obtain it yourself.                    But I think that part of it is that you           can't just look at the term "actual fraud" in isolation,          just as the other side agrees that you can't look at the            term "false representation" in isolation. Because they        assume that false representation means fraudulent      misrepresentation. That's not what the statute says,        and that's not what false representation means at common         law.             At common law, false representation includes      negligent misrepresentation and innocent    misrepresentation. If you look at the Restatement in         , it expressly says that. So does Prosser. So           they're agreeing that you can't just take these terms         and pluck them out of the statute and say, oh, what did            it mean at common law? That's the end of the analysis.            The question is, what did these terms mean in this          statute? And when you look at this statute, Congress          put the term "actual fraud" next to a bunch of terms            that by their nature speak of inducement.                   JUSTICE KAGAN: But it would be a very          strange thing, Ms. Murphy, if ­­ if I agreed with you,            if I were Congress and I said, I want to make it really                clear that this should be only intentional, false        Alderson Reporting Company Official pretenses and false representation. There are a        gazillion ways to do that, but starting with the simple          one, saying intentional false pretenses and an       intentional false representation.               But the one thing I wouldn't do, I think, is            to say actual fraud. Because actual fraud is not          synonymous with ­­ with intent. Actual fraud refers         to ­­ to conduct that's done with a certain kind of            intent. And that conduct, as you just said, includes          more than false representation and false pretenses.                   So I wouldn't use a term that had to do with             conduct just to state a mens rea requirement.                     MS. MURPHY: So ­­ so here's why ­­ and two           responses as to why I don't think it's actually that           unusual in this context. I mean, first of all, this            isn't a theory that we concocted after the fact. The            sponsors of the bill, when they introduced this        legislation on the House and Senate floor, both of the          key sponsors said what Subsection (a) was intended to         do, and I quote, "It was intended to codify current case            law, e.g., Neal v. Clark, interpreting fraud as actual         or intentional fraud rather than implied fraud."                               But if they ­­   JUSTICE KAGAN: But if I have that case          right, that case is actually a case about a fraudulent            Alderson Reporting Company Official conveyance. It's not a case about a false           representation. So they said, look at this case. It's           a case about a fraudulent conveyance that suggests that          there's more fraud in the world than just        misrepresentations. And we want to make clear that         that's going ­­ that that's supposed to be a part of            this.             MS. MURPHY: That's ignoring the second half        of what the sponsor said, because they didn't say, we          intend this to codify Neal v. Clark, period.                    And Neal v. Clark didn't hold that       fraudulent conveyance was something that comes within       the scope of the statute. It held that the fraudulent           conveyance there did not come within the scope of the          statute ­­             JUSTICE GINSBURG: Whatever ­­                MS. MURPHY: ­­ because ­­                 JUSTICE GINSBURG: Whatever may have been       said in ­­ in the course of the legislative history, the           statute says "or." And I think you would concede that            your reading requires converting "or" into "by"; that        is, misrepresentation, false pretenses by actual fraud.                   MS. MURPHY: I think that's a fair          statement, but I think that this case is pretty          analogous to the McNally case where this Court also had          Alderson Reporting Company Official the disjunctive "or" before it in interpreting the Mail         Fraud Statute. And in that case the Court ­­ it was a             very similar situation where you had a statute that was           on the books, you had decisions from this Court         interpreting that statute, and then Congress added to        the statute language that was mirroring the language of         this Court's cases.                And in that circumstance, the Court said,      you know what, we have to look at that language in light            of the fact that they took it from our cases.                      And here, if you look at the ­­ the cases          that they took this language from, they are cases that          use actual fraud to distinguish intentional fraud from        constructive fraud. They are not cases that use actual          fraud to say, oh, here's what kind of fraud counts under           this statute, fraudulent conveyance.                In fact, the only cases that happen to        involve fraudulent conveyance and the term "actual       fraud" are cases where the Court held that the debt did           not fall within the scope of the exception to discharge.                      JUSTICE GINSBURG: Do you have any other        example in all of the U.S. Code where the word and           series of words A, or B, or C, and "or" is taken to mean              "by," and refer not to a discrete category, but modifies           the earlier category.   Alderson Reporting Company Official             MS. MURPHY: I'm not sure I have an example           where it would ­­ you know, where ­­ where it quite           works like that. But what I would say is that there are              many places in the U.S. Code where an item that comes at            the end of or later in a list is used to inform the              meaning of the word before it. And if you look at Neal             v. Clark itself, that's exactly the reasoning the Court         employed there.              The reason the Court concluded that the only        kind of fraud that counted was intentional fraud was         because the next item in the list was embezzlement. And           the Court said because embezzlement requires intent,       we're going to infer from that term that fraud requires          intent as well.               So the basic principle that adding language       to a statute can inform and limit the words that come            before it is nothing that extraordinary. It's just ­­                     CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Can you give me an         example in common parlance, not ­­ not in the U.S. Code,           where someone would speak along the lines you're saying         the statute is written?                MS. MURPHY: Sure. There's an example in a          statutory construction book of the phrase "cats, dogs,        or domesticated animals." When you're thinking about        that phrase, "domesticated animals" is the one that        Alderson Reporting Company Official tells you cats doesn't include lions and tigers. And          it's given in the context of ­­                              CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: That's not great ­­       MS. MURPHY: ­­ the veterinarian says, you        know, I will treat these three types of animals. It's            limiting the one that comes before it.                     I think another phrase that I came across        was highways, bridges, and public sidewalks. You know,         "public sidewalks" is what tells you that bridges        doesn't include the one in my backyard. So the third           term can be a term that informs the meaning. Now, here             I'm ­­ I don't think you have to conclude that that's            the only thing "actual fraud" achieves in this statute         in order to accept our reading of the statute.                     "Actual fraud" in this statute ­­ you know,        the concept of misrepresentation doesn't have to be        completely synonymous with the concept of false       representation. What you can essentially view "actual        fraud" as doing is putting a thumb on the scale of the             broadest conception of misrepresentation possible, even      if that's broader than the common law tort of false          misrepresentation.             So one thing that some courts have said when         looking at this statute is that it's not clear that          false representation reached future looking, you know,       Alderson Reporting Company Official statements about whether I intend to perform in the          future. And some courts have said, well, you know, we           don't need to resolve that debate anymore because now         that the statute says "actual fraud," that's good enough         to tell us that the kinds of misrepresentations that         come within the scope of this statute include any kind          of misrepresentation that induces the creditor to part        with something, even if it might not technically have         qualified as false representation at common law.                   So I think that there's plenty of ways for          this term to do work without having it kind of put this            sore thumb into the statute of fraudulent conveyance,        which is just nothing like the rest of the terms in this            statute.             It's nothing like false statements, false      representations, false financial statements. All of       those types of conduct that this statute has always         covered involve inducing the creditor to part with        something. And that's what differentiates (a)() from        the other exceptions in the statute.                   This is not the intentional fraud provision.       There's plenty of other provisions in the statute that         cover forms of intentional fraud, some of them by         directly using the word "fraud," others like (a)() by         covering intentional injuries to property interests.      Alderson Reporting Company Official                So it's not as if you need to put this       remedy into (a)() in order to ensure that if you really           do have intentional fraud in the receipt of a fraudulent           conveyance, there will be a means of having a debt            that's nondischargeable. So I don't know why you kind           of strain to get it in here where it seems like such a             poor fit.              And the other thing that I think is worth          keeping note of is that Congress has legislated, quite         specifically, on fraudulent conveyance for years.       And there are two things that you can note repeatedly          when Congress does so.                First of all, it uses particular language       of ­­ of fraudulent convenance. It talks about a          fraudulent conveyance or a fraudulent transfer, or a         transfer made with intent to injure, hinder, delay, or         defraud a creditor.                But the other thing is that the remedies        Congress has created for fraudulent conveyance are not        creditor­specific. They are instead consistent with the        basic principle of equitable distribution.                 Under (a)(), you have a complete bar to         discharge which benefits everybody because no debtor       gets a discharge.                Under (a)() and the other provisions      Alderson Reporting Company Official that allow the trustee to void transactions, the money         comes back to the estate and then gets distributed         equitably to all creditors.                Here, instead, you have a creditor who's        basically jumping the line and saying we should get all          of this money, even though within the context of the          Chrysalis bankruptcy, the trustee did not see fit to try          to void these transactions, and there was no attempt by          the trustee to void transactions in this bankruptcy,        either.             So you end up with a remedy that is really           nothing like the ones that Congress has offered when it          is actually legislating clearly on the topic of        fraudulent transfers ­­              JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I don't know that that         moves me that much.                Does that mean that if you're a ­­ if you've           accepted a fraudulent amount of money, you get to keep           it?                         saying ­­ MS. MURPHY: Absolutely not, because ­­      JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, that's what you're                   MS. MURPHY: No, I'm not. Because the         trustee's powers allow them to void the transaction and         ­­Alderson Reporting Company Official             JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But if they choose not        to, that still means you get to keep it.                     MS. MURPHY: Well ­­                JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: That one creditor has ­­                   MS. MURPHY: The creditor has the ability to         ­­            JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: ­­ the expense, et       cetera.             MS. MURPHY: ­­ try and get the trustee to          void the transaction, and the trustee can void the next          transaction on down the line as well. The statutory          powers include, you know, if ­­ if the recipient then          fraudulently conveys away the property, you can keep        undoing the transfers until you ultimately get at the         property. So there's plenty of ability for the trustee          to get at the property without resorting to this.                     Now, we're not saying that there can never        be a creditor­specific remedy for the receipt of a          fraudulent conveyance. If, say, you have a trustee who           has that debt against the recipient, I think the right           thing for them to do is to go use the Subsection (a)()            exception, which allows an exception for willful and        malicious injury to the property interests of another.                    And courts have ­­ every court that's looked        at that question has said that (a)() is an appropriate          Alderson Reporting Company Official place for this kind of debt to be accepted from          discharge. So you've got courts who have looked at this           question and said ­­               JUSTICE GINSBURG: What does it take to        show ­­ what is it, the phrase "malicious," or what?                                                          MS. MURPHY: "Willful and malicious ­­      JUSTICE GINSBURG: Oh.    MS. MURPHY: ­­ injury to" ­­      JUSTICE GINSBURG: ­­ what ­­ what does it         take to show that?                MS. MURPHY: So it can be either subjective         intent to cause injury, or it can be a substantial           certainty that injury will result. There's a bit          of dispute below in the ­­ in the courts of appeals           about whether an objective substantial certainty that       harm will result is sufficient, or you need a subjective           substantial certainty.              I'm not sure, at the end of the day, that          ever is an outcome determinative distinction.                  But for this case, it makes no difference at         all, because the Fifth Circuit is the circuit that         applies the broader objective test. And applying that         objective text here, the Fifth Circuit concluded, as did         the two courts below, that these transfers were not made          with intent to injure the Petitioner, and were not even          Alderson Reporting Company Official made with substantial certainty that injury to the        Petitioner ­­                                     JUSTICE BREYER: That's your case.      MS. MURPHY: ­­ would result.      JUSTICE BREYER: And I'm still ­­ as Justice         Sotomayor said, seemed to me there is a ­­ look what            you're saying here. The bankrupt or insolvent person         transfers the jewels to his wife. Okay? And now what            this would be saying under their reading is the jewels          survive her bankruptcy, and quite right, that her        husband's trustee could have clawed it back before, but         he didn't. And so now it went through her bankruptcy,           and if it survives, somebody can get it.                    And ­­ and maybe the fair thing to do is to           do what you do with environmental cases or you have a           bunch of people who are victims and they divide it up,           because you're quite right, that all of the creditors         who might have shared in the jewels are the victims, the           creditors of the transferor. But so what? I mean, how             does ­­ how does that help you with your basic argument?           It just ­­ it's a different argument that says that this            particular creditor shouldn't get all of it.                   MS. MURPHY: Well, I think it's actually         kind of true in every fraudulent conveyance case because         typically the ­­  Alderson Reporting Company Official             JUSTICE BREYER: It's also true in every        misrepresentation case. If it survives bankruptcy ­­                   MS. MURPHY: Not at all. No, it's         absolutely not true. In a misrepresentation case, the          misrepresentation was made to the creditor. So the         creditor ­­ the debt that the creditor is trying to get           the money for is directly related to inducing that         creditor to part with the money.                  JUSTICE BREYER: So he does, perhaps, to a         thousand. He lied to a thousand people.                     MS. MURPHY: Well, then each one of them ­­                     JUSTICE BREYER: There are a thousand        victims. And here we have, let's say, a thousand           victims, all those creditors who didn't get the money         they should have gotten. I mean, it's the same problem,            isn't it?              MS. MURPHY: I ­­ I don't think it is            because in that context you have a creditor­specific         injury and a creditor­specific remedy, and I think you           need that, too, in the fraudulent conveyance context.                    So if, for instance, you know, the jewels        belonged to one of the creditors, then they're going to          go use (a)() and get the jewels back. They're not           going to have a problem. (a)() is available for that            intentional injury to their property ­­     Alderson Reporting Company Official JUSTICE BREYER: I see.      MS. MURPHY: ­­ interest.     So you don't need it over here when you have                                              a very different statute that has been focused on this          concept of inducement. And I would note here, every           single one of this Court's cases that involved (a)()         has always had a debtor who is using fraud to induce the             creditor to part with something. That's the way this          statute had been understood up until the Seventh        Circuit's decision came along and ­­ and had this new          idea that you could get at fraudulent conveyance through         this statute.              Before that, it was pretty commonly      understood that what (a)() was about, that       differentiated it from other provisions, was that it was         about fraudulent inducement. And that's the ultimate        problem here. They may have a debt. They may have a              debt that even involves actual fraud, but they don't         have a debt for anything with which Petitioner was ever           fraudulently induced to part resulting in my client        obtaining anything by the kind of fraud that counts         under ­­ Section (a)().                  If there are no further questions.                  CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.                   Mr. Dvorestzky, you have four minutes      Alderson Reporting Company Official remaining.           REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF SHAY DVORESTZKY                    ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER                 MR. DVORETZKY: Thank you.                   A veterinarian's office with a sign saying       that the veterinarian treats dogs, cats or domesticated        animals treats more than just dogs and cats. Surely          that office will also treat guinea pigs and hamsters.         And so the "domesticated animals" phrase does have        something in common with dogs and cats, just as         "fraudulent transfers" has something in common with       false pretenses and false representations.                 These are all schemes to cheat creditors.       But by adding "or actual fraud," Congress was expanding         upon the pre­existing terms, expanding upon dogs and        cats to cover something additional.                 Respondent does not have any theory for what        Congress was doing through this language to expand upon         the previous terms.               With respect to false representation, courts      had unanimously interpreted false representations to      refer to the tort of deceit. In his brief, Respondent           equates false representations with the tort of deceit.        Even if false representations might have been understood        as something else, adding "or actual fraud" would not         Alderson Reporting Company Official narrow false representations to exclude unintentional ­­      unintentional representations. It would at best simply        show that you could also have a discharge bar for an            intentional misrepresentation.               With respect to Neal, Neal has to be       understood in light of what was at issue at ­­ in that            case. The ­­ the fundamental premise of Neal was that           some forms of fraudulent transfers are fraud under the         predecessor of Section (a)()(A). And so the only         reason that the Court drew a line there between          "intentional" and "unintentional" participation was on      the premise that if the participation had been        intentional, that would have been nondischargeable      fraud.             With respect to the statutory text here,       nothing about the statute talks about inducing a        creditor to part with anything. It simply talks about          obtaining money by fraud. And for the reasons that I           explained earlier, a transferee commits fraud and,        therefore, incurs a new debt for which he is liable if            he knowingly participates in a fraudulent transfer.                    Ms. Murphy made the point that there ­­       suggested that there's something anomalus about allowing       creditors to pursue a fraudulent transfer remedy for the          benefit of an individual creditor. There's nothing        Alderson Reporting Company Official anomalus about that. State fraudulent transfer laws        exist outside of bankruptcy, and so before the        bankruptcy stay takes effect, it is essentially a        free­for­all where creditors can pursue their rights       under State fraudulent transfer laws.                 JUSTICE BREYER: We ­­ we treat ­­ we treat          in our veterinarian clinic domestic animals, your ­­       domestic animals or your household ­­ domestic animals,        your dog ­­ your ­­ your favorite friends or your          domestic pets, you see. Domestic pets is meant to say           which domestic animals? Domestic animals, dogs, cats,        or household pets? Domestic animals seems to cover the          whole thing. They're saying, or it's like, i.e.,         household pets.                          JUSTICE KENNEDY: Come on and answer ­­       JUSTICE BREYER: Well, not for you. I mean,           it's good for you, this word "or."                   (Laughter.)             JUSTICE BREYER: I grant you, I've had a          horrible time trying to find an example.                   But ­­ but it could be it means i.e. She's           saying it means i.e., household pets.                  MR. DVORETZKY: Not when Congress adds "or        domestic animals" as a specific amendment. That has to           be given some effect.    Alderson Reporting Company Official             Lastly, (a)() doesn't solve this problem.      If (a)() simply covered any intentional wrong, it would         simply subsume all of the discharge bars. Any         intentional misrepresentation would fall within (a)().      (a)() has to be given a narrower construction in order           to differentiate it from the other bars.                   Moreover, (a)() doesn't apply in Chapter      . In particularly in when Congress reformed         Chapter to crack down on fraud, it did not mean to            allow the sort of scheme that went on in this case or            the sort of fraudulent transfer that Justice Breyer        hypothesized to ­­ to lead to a discharge.                     JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Are you limiting actual       frauds to just fraudulent conveyances? Are there other         deceptive schemes that you would include?                  MR. DVORETZKY: There are. I think the          Heartland usage of "actual fraud" at common law, most         commonly it did refer to fraudulent transfers to hinder         creditors. There were ­­ may I answer?                     There were also other types of conveyances,       conveyances to defeat a divorcing spouse's interest, for         example, the devastatit in Neal to diminish an estate.         We also give an example in our brief of undue influence.           These are also forms of actual fraud, but the Heartland          of it is fraudulent conveyances.     Alderson Reporting Company Official CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank       you, counsel.  The case is submitted.    (Whereupon, at : a.m., the      case in the                                       above­entitled matter was submitted.)    Alderson Reporting Company Official Officialapplicable :, applies :, : apply : : : : : applying : approach : appropriate : arguably : argue : argument : : :,, :, : : : :, : art : asks : assets : : : A additional : :,,,, a.m : : : : : : abetting : : : ability :, above­entitled : address : : absolutely : : accept : accepted : : accepting : accords : achieves : acknowledge : acquisition : act : : : action : : :, :, : : adds : adversary : afford : ago : agree : : agreed : agreeing : agrees : aiding : allegation : allow : : : :, : allowing : allows : : amended : amendment : Assistant : associated : assume : attempt : attempted : : : :, available : avoidance : : : : : : : awful : amendments : amicus : : B : activity : actual :,, : :,, : :,, : :, : :, :, : : : : : :, :, : :,,,, analogous : :,,,, : :,, : :, :,,, : :,, : :, : : :, :,, add : : anomalus : analysis : amount : : : animals :, :, added : : : : : adding : : : :, addition : : :, :, backyard : :,,,, bad :, bags : bank : answer : : bankrupt : answered : anybody : anymore : appeals : : APPEARANCES bankruptcy : : : : :, :, :, : : :,, : : : :,,,,, : Appendix : Page  : :, :, : :, bridges :, brief :, : : : : bar : : : Briefly : : : : bring : : :, :, : : broad : broadening : broader : : : barring : : bars : : : :, basic : : : : : basis : : bed :, behalf :, : broadest : brought : bunch : : : C C : : : : basically : Burnazos : :, : : called : : believe : belonged : belt­and­suspend... : benefit : : : benefits : best : better : capacity : carried : case : : : : : : : : : :,, : :,,, : : :, :, : : :, cases : : : :,,,, :, : : :, cash : category : bill : bit : : board : book : books : Breyer : :, :,,,, : :, : : : : : causal : : :,, causation :, :,, : :,, : :, :, :,, : :,, : cats : : :,,, : caused : : causing : centuries : : cause : :, : : : B : back : : : big :, : : : : : : : : : backdrop : Alderson Reporting Company Alderson Reporting Company :, : : :, codified : : codify : : Cohen : come : : : : : : : : certain : certainly : certainty :, : : cetera : chain :,, change : Chapter :, cheat : Chief :, :, : comes : : conclusion : : : : concocted : : : : : conduct : : :, :,, : Commercial : : :, commit : : :, : : : : : : : : : :,, : conflicts : commits : :, confused : : Official concept :, : continue : continues : contrast : conception : concern : : convenance : converting : conveyance : : conclude : concluded : Page  : cousin : cover : : : : : covered :, : :,,, : : : covering : covers : :,, : : : : :,,,, :, : : crack : :,, :, : :,,, created : : :, : :,,, : : : : credit : creditor :, create : :, : : : :, :, :,, : : : : : : : :, : : : : :, : : :,, : :, creditor­specific : : : : creditors : : :, :, : : : : :, : : :, : :, :, : : : : choose : chose : Chrysalis : : committing : :, : committed : : Chrysalis's : circuit :, : :,, Circuit's : : :, : circumstance : claim :, : : : common : : :,, : : : :, : common­law : : : : : : commonly : Congress :, conveyances : :,,, conveyed : conveys : copied : : : : :, :, :, : :, : : : : : : corporate :, :, : :, : :, : :,, : :, : : corporations : correct :,, : : : : : counsel : : : : claims :, : : : Congress's : : count : : companies : : Clark : : : : : : : : : : counts : : counted : : : classic : classical : claw : clawed : clear : : : : : : : clearly : clerk : client : clinic : closed : : Code : : :, :, company : : : competing : complaint :, complements : : complete : completely : congressional : connection : consistent : : : : : : conspiracy : : : conspiring : : : : construction : comprehensive : :, concealing : concealment : conceals :, concede : : constructive : contesting : context :, : : : : :, couple : course : : :, : court :, : :, : crime : : : :, Cruz : : : : :,,, : : :,,, current : :,, : : curiae : : : D Court's : : courts : : : : : : :,, DANIEL : D : D.C :,,, da :,, Alderson Reporting Company Official distinguished : distortions : distributed : distribution : divide : divorcing : dog : Page  exist : existing :, exists : : : : Electronics : : element : Elizabeth : : expand : else's : embezzlement expanding : : :, day : : de : debate : debt :,, : :,,, :, : :,,,, :,,,, : : : :,, : : : : : : : :, : debtor : : details : determinative : detrimental : : devastatit : difference : different : differentiate : differentiated : : : : differentiates : :,, : : : : diminish : direct : : : debtor's : : debtors : directed : : : : directly : : : : : dogs : :, :, : : : : : doing : : :, employed : ends : : engine : : ensure : ensuring : entire : :,,,, entities : : environmental : : domestic :,, domesticated : : : :, double : doubt : dozens :, drafting : : equates : : equitable : equitably : ERIN : : : erred : ESQ :,, : expands : : expect : expense : explained : : explicitly : expressed : : expressing : expressly : : : extent : : : extraordinary : F face : facilitating : fact : : : :, : :, fair : : fall :, : : falls : false :, :, :, :,, : :,,, :,, : : :, :, : : : :,,, : :,,, : :, :,, : :,, : :,,,, : debts : : :, : : : : discharge :, drew : :,, : : essentially : deceit :, deceive :, deceived : deceptive : decide : decides : decision : decisions : defeat : discharged : defraud : : discharging : : : :,, Dvorestzky : : : : : :,, Dvoretzky : : establish : : :,, : : :,, : :, :, established : :, : : :, : :, :, :,, : : : :, : : : et : :, : : : : : dischargeable estate : : : : : : : : :, discrete : : : degree : delay : :, disjunctive : dishonest : dishonors :, E :, :,, :, : : E : : deletion : deliberate : : Department : depending : described : : : disposed : dispute : : : disregard : distinct : distinction : distinguish : e.g : examples : earlier : : exception : effect : : : : :, effectively : effectuate : effort : either : : :, : :, exceptions : exclude : excuse : : : event : everybody : exactly : example : : : : : :,, : :, Alderson Reporting Company Official far : favorite : feature : Federal : fee : fiduciary :, : : Field :, Fifth : :, : : :, :, fifty : filed : filing : final : financial : find : first :, : : : : : : : :, : : : fit : : : flaw : floor : focus : focused : focuses : following :, follows : forget : forgiven : form : :, : :, : forms : : : : : found : four : fraud :,,, :,, :, : : :,, :, :,,, :, : : :,,, :,, : :,, : :, : : : : friends : : free­for­all : friend :,,,, fully : : function : fundamental : further : future : : : :,, :, :, : :, :, :, : :,, :, :, full : : :,, :,,,,, : :, :,, : :,, : :,, :,, : :, :,, :,, :,, : G : : :,, :,,, :,, : general : : :, :, :, : :,, : : :,, Ginsburg :, : :,, frauds : : gap : :, gazillion : generally : getting : : : G : : fraudulent : given : : : : :, : : :, :, : :, :,,, :,,, : : : :,,,,, : :, :, :,, gnawing : :, :, : : : :,, : : : : :,,,, :, : : : : : : : :, :, :,,, fraudulently : gotten : : good : : go :, :, : : : :, :, head : :, : :,, hear : Heartland :, heaven's : give : :, :, : : held : : : : : : help : helped : : helping : hide : gives : : : : : : : : higher : giving : : highways : hinder : : : :,, : : history : : : goes : going :, :, : :,, : : : : holder : :, : hold : : holding : : honest : : horrible : hostile : Alderson Reporting Company government : grammatical : : : grammatically : grant : : great : : ground : : :,, : guinea : H half : hamsters : happen : happens : hard : harm : Harrington : : :,, :, : : :,, Page  House : household :, :, hundred : hundreds : husband's : Husky : : hypothesized : hypothetical : : : I i.e :,, idea : ignoring : implied : important : include :, : : : included : includes : : : : including : inconsistent : incurs : : indefensible : individual : induce : induced :, : : inducement : :, : : : : : induces : : inducing : : : : inevitable : inevitably : infer : : inference : influence : inform :, informs : inherent : injure : : Official : : : keep : :, involved : involves : : keeping : irrelevant : isolation :, issue : : issues : item :, key : : kind : : KENNEDY : :,, : : : : : : : : : J jewels :,, kinds :, : knew : : know : : : knowingly : knowing : : : : : : :, : : : :, :, : : :, : : : : :,,, : : : : : :, Joint : JR : judge : jumping : Justice : :, :, :,, :,, : : : :,,,, :, :, : :, : :,, :, : : : : :, :, :, :, :, :, : :,,,, : :,, : :, :,, : :,, : :, : : :, : : : :, :,, larger : :,, :,, Lastly : :,, :, Laughter : :,,, :, : la : lack : language :,, :, :, : :,, :,, : :,, : : : knows :, : L law : :,, : : : : : :, :,, : : : : :, : : : : K KAGAN :,, : : : : : : Page  M laws : :, lead : : leaves : leaving : led : LEE : legislated : legislating : : manner : Mail : main : making : malicious : : :, man : : legislation : legislative : : : legislator : :,, let's : : liable : : lied : : : lies : light : : : limit : limited : : :, Mans : March : Massachusetts : : matter : : : : McNally : mean : : : :, : : :, : : : : :, : : : : : : : : limiting : : meaning : : limits : : line : : :,,, : : : meaningless : means : :, lines : lions : list :, litigation : : meant : : little : mens : : long : : mental : look : : : merely : : : : : : : :,,, minutes : : :, : mirroring : : misrepresentation looked : : : looking : :, lose :, lot : : : : lots : : : : : : : : :, :,, : : :,, : :,, : :,, : : misrepresentations injuries : injury : : :,, : :, innocent : :, :, : insolvency : insolvent : : instance : : : intend : : intended :, intent : :, :,,,, :, :, :, : :, intentional :, : : : :,, : : :,, : : : :, :, intentionally : interest : : interests : : interim : International : : interpret : : interpretation : : : :, : : : :, :, :,, interpreted : : interpreting : :, introduced : invariably : : : involve : : Alderson Reporting Company Official : :, : : : misrepresenting : narrows : natural : nature : : : misstatement : Neal : : obviously : occurred : occurs : offer : : offered : : : :, offers : : : office :, oh : : : mistake : modifies : : necessarily : modify : money : :,, necessary : : : :, : need :, : : : : :, : : : : :, : : : : : :,, : negative : :,, : :,,,,, never : : : :,, :,, :, : : moves : multiple : nondischargeable : : : negligent : new : : : normally : note : :, : Murphy : : : O : :,, noun : : :, nullifies : :,,, :,, : :, : :,,, :,,, :,, : : :,, :, : :, :,, :,, :, :,, : : : O : : objective :, obtain : : :,, : obtained :, : : :, : :,, :, : : : : :,,, : :, :, : obtaining : : obtains : : : :, obvious : N N :, : name : narrow : : narrower : : narrowing : : :,, : : : original :, outcome : outside : : : : overhaul : overlap : :,,, : : owed : owes :,, P P : page : : paradigm : parallel : parlance : part : : : : : : :, : : : : : : : participant : : participates : : : : Okay : : : : :, : : ones : : oral : :,, : : : orchestrated : order : : : permits : : overarching : personal : Page  participation : : : :, particular : : : : : particularly : : plain : plaintiff's : plausible : plausibly : please : : : Partly :, party : :, people : : pluck : : plenty :, point : : : : : : : permitted : perform : period : : pointed : points : policy : Ponzi : : Ponzi's : poor : : position : : possession : possible : powers : : pre­existing : predecessor : preexisting :, perpetrated : person : : :, : :, : : personally : pervasively : petition : Petitioner :, : prefer : : :,, : premise :, : : :, present : : : : presumed : : : : pretense : : pets :,,, : phrase : : : :, : :, : : : pick : pierce : piercing : :, : :,, pigs : place : : places : : pretenses : : : :, : :,, : : : :, : : : pretty : : prevail :, preventing : previous : : : principle : : problem : : : :, Alderson Reporting Company Official relation : relationship : reliance :, :, raise : rea : : reached : read : : reading :, relief : : relies : : remainder : remaining : :,, : : : : remand : : : : R problems : proceeding :, R : proof : properties : property : : : : :, : : : : :,,, : Prosser : prove : : : provide : provides : : provision : : provisions :, realize : really :, : :, : : : reason : : : : reasoning : reasons : : : : receipt : : receiving : :,, : REBUTTAL : : : : : : public :, purpose : : recipient : : : : : : : : : : : : : :, pursue :, : : pursued : pursuing :, put : : Page  respect : : S : : : S : : :, : : SARAH : : : : Respondent : : : : :, :, : :, Respondent's : : : : : : responses : restate : Restatement : restates : : restating : : result : : remedies : remedy : : : : : rest : : repeatedly : : : replaced : reply : representation : : : : : :, :, :,, resulting : : :, : : :, : : :, : reverse : rid : satisfied : satisfy : : saying : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : says : : :, :, :,, : :, : : : : scale : scheme : : : :, : schemes : : : scienter : : scope :, : representations : right : :, : : : :, : : : : screens : : :, : : : : :, :, :, : : : : : : :,, : : :, : : second : : : : : : : : putting : Q qualified : Queen : question :, : : : : : : : questions : : quite : : : : : : quote : recipient's : : recipients : reckless : recover : redundancy : : redundant : refer : : : : : referring : : refers : reformed : refused : rejected :, : related : : represents : require : : : required : : requirement : : : requires : : : : : : : : : requiring :, reserve : resolve : resolved : : resorting : rights : rise : : Ritz : : :, : : road :, robbed : ROBERTS : : : : :, :, :, :, : : : : : rule : rules : section :,, : :, : : : see :, : : : : : : seen : self­regarding : Senate : sense : : : sentence : series : services : settled : Alderson Reporting Company Seventh : shared : shares : SHAY : :, : : shifted : show :,,, : :, : side : sidewalks :, sight : sign : similar : : simple : : : simply : : :,, : :, :, single : : : sitting : situation : : situations : slightly : sole : solely : Solicitor : solve : somebody : : : something's : sore : : sort : :, sorted : Sotomayor :, : :, :, :,, : : sounds : : speak : : : specific : : : Page  tell : : : tells :, term : : : : thinking : : : : thinks : : : : :,, third : : : :, : :, :,, : : : : : : thought : : thousand :, three : : :, terms : : : : : :, : : :,, : :, test : Texas : : text : : : : : textual : Thank : : thumb : : : tigers : time : : :, : : times : topic : tort : :, :, :, totally : : : : traced : transaction : theories : theory : :, :, :, : : : thing : : : : : : : : :, :, : : : :, : :, transactions :, : transfer : : : : : :,, : : : : : :, :, : things : : : : : : : : transferee :,, : : :, : :,, : :,,, : think :, : : : : : : : : :, : : : : : :, :, : : :, :,, : : : : transferor's : : : : transferors : transferee's : transferor : : :, : :, :, :, : : Official sponsor : sponsors :, spouse's : standard : starting : state :,,, : : :, : :,, : :, statement : : : subsume : successful : sufficient : : : suggest : suggested : : : suggests : : :, : superfluous : :, statements :, supporting : : : : States :,, : supposed : : : : statute :, : Supreme :, sure : :, :, : : : : : : : :, : : : :,,, : : : :, : :,, Surely : : :,, : :,, :,,,, :, :, :, :, :,,,, synonymous : :,, : swallow : : : survive :,, survives : : : statutes : statutory : : : : stay : stayed : sticks : strain : strange : stronger : stuff : subject : subjective :, submit : submitted :, Subsection : : system :, T T :, take : : :, : : : : : taken : takes : : talk : talking :, :,, : : talks : : :, targeted : technically : specifically : : : spells : substantial : :, : Alderson Reporting Company transferred : : : :, : : undoing : undue : unfortunate : wasn't : transferring : transfers :, : : :, : : : Uniform : : : : unintentional : : : : :, :, treat : : : United :,, : treats :, true : : : : unusual : unwarranted : : : : usage : : :, use : : trustee : :, : :,, : : trustee's : truth : try : : trying :, : : : : : : : : :, : : uses : : :,, : : V v : : : Tuesday : turn : two : : : : : :, : : : veil : :,, : :, : variety : Official Page  : wrote :, : wanted : : Washington :, way : : : : : : : : : : : ways : : : : We'll : we're : : : : : : : : : x :, X Y Yeah : : year : years :, : : : Z went : : : : weren't : wife :,, : ­ : : : : : : : : :, : willful : : : wish : word : :, : : : : : : : : :, : : : work : : : : : :, : :, : : : : : : :, : : : : : : : : : : : : : : :, works :, : : : :, : (a) : (a)() :, : : (a)()(a) : :,, : : : (a)() : : : : (a)() : :, : :, :, :,,,, : : : (a)() : : type : : types :, : veil­piercing :, words : : :,, : : typically : : U U.S : :, UCC : Uh­huh : ultimate : ultimately : : : unanimously : understand :, : : : understanding : :, : understood :, : veterinarian : : : veterinarian's : victim : victims :, :, : view :, viewed : void :,,, world : : : : worse : worth : wouldn't : : : :, : :, :, write : wait : written : want : : wrong : : : : : wrongly : W : : : : : : : :, , :, Alderson Reporting Company 