 Official ­ Subject to Final Review        IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES        ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ x                                  COMMONWEALTH OF PUERTO               RICO,                              : :             Petitioner                : No. ­         v.                          : LUIS M. SANCHEZ VALLE, ET AL.           : ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ x                                                         Washington, D.C.                         Wednesday, January ,                  The above­entitled matter came on for oral       argument before the Supreme Court of the United States         at : a.m.   APPEARANCES: CHRISTOPHER LANDAU, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf          of Petitioner.  ADAM G. UNIKOWSKY, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf of            Respondents. NICOLE A. SAHARSKY, ESQ., Assistant to the Solicitor              General, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; for       United States, as amicus curiae, supporting         Respondents. Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review                                    C O N T E N T S ORAL ARGUMENT OF                                      PAGE CHRISTOPHER LANDAU, ESQ.       On behalf of the Petitioner                           ORAL ARGUMENT OF   ADAM G. UNIKOWSKY, ESQ.         On behalf of the Respondents                        ORAL ARGUMENT OF   NICOLE A. SAHARSKY, ESQ.          For United States, as amicus curiae,      supporting the Respondents                          REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF   CHRISTOPHER LANDAU, ESQ.      On behalf of the Petitioner                           Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review                                       P R O C E E D I N G S                                            (: a.m.)              CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument       next in Case ­, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico v.          Valle.             Mr. Landau.             ORAL ARGUMENT OF CHRISTOPHER LANDAU                    ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER                 MR. LANDAU: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice,        and may it please the Court:                  This case turns on the straightforward point       that the people of Puerto Rico are the source of          authority for the laws of Puerto Rico. That means that           a prior Federal conviction has no Double Jeopardy        implications for the enforcement of the Commonwealth's       criminal laws because Commonwealth law and Federal law        emanate from different sources of authority: The people         of Puerto Rico on the one hand and Congress on the           other.             JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Landau, could      Congress amend U.S.C. , which covers Guam, the         Virgin Islands, American Samoa? Could it amend that         statute and put Puerto Rico in there as well?                     MR. LANDAU: It could certainly amend that        statute, Your Honor, with respect to Federal       Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review prosecutions in Puerto Rico pursuant to its authority        over Federal prosecutors.               Your question, Your Honor, raises a very        intricate question with ­­ with ­­                 JUSTICE GINSBURG: In ­­ in the statute        is ­­ it works both ways.                  MR. LANDAU: In the statute, Your Honor, it         does because there's no question Puerto Rico is in a          unique status different than Guam, the Virgin Islands,        and American Samoa precisely because those are all        territories governed, as traditionally, by organic acts       of Congress.              there ­­             JUSTICE GINSBURG: But is there ­­ is        JUSTICE KENNEDY: What ­­ what about the        Northern Marianas?              MR. LANDAU: Your Honor, they are in an         interesting position that is generally more analogous to        Puerto Rico in the sense that they are a Commonwealth of            the Northern Marianas with a compact of their own that           was very much modeled on Puerto Rico, although it's         somewhat different than the Puerto Rico model. But         there's a profound distinction that goes to the heart of           this case between the home rule territories, were        Congress, to be sure, has delegated a measure of          Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review self­government to those particular territories, but      each of them, Guam, the Virgin Islands, and American         Samoa are still governed by organic acts of Congress, as          was Puerto Rico prior to .                  JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Landau, could you       finish your answer to my question? You said yes, as far            as what the federal Congress can deal with, what the          federal prosecutors do, but the statute works both ways.                     Are you saying it couldn't ­­ Congress has        no power to do that with respect to Puerto Rico?                      MR. LANDAU: I would say, Your Honor, that          that raises a very interesting and tricky issue with          respect to the compact that the Public Law          offered the people of Puerto Rico that was accepted. As           this Court said in the Flores de Otero case in the           s ­­             JUSTICE GINSBURG: You're saying it's a hard         question, but you haven't given me ­­                  MR. LANDAU: Well, I ­­ I ­­ I think the              answer is probably not, insofar as this Court said ­­         and I'm not saying this myself. I'm quoting this Court.           Congress relinquished control over the organization of       the internal affairs of the Island.                  Now, one point to make very, very clear:        Our position today on the double jeopardy issue does not          Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review turn on that relinquishing issue. But to answer your          hypothetical specifically, if Congress started to tell       the Puerto Rico prosecutors what cases they may        prosecute, that might raise some serious questions       under ­­             JUSTICE GINSBURG: Just take the statute as        it is. Just add Puerto Rico ­­                               MR. LANDAU: Right ­­    JUSTICE GINSBURG: ­­ not telling      prosecutors what to do in a particular case.                     MR. LANDAU: Well, and ­­ and, again, Your         Honor, I think the critical point here, and I think what             is most telling going back to some of the colloquy that           just happened in the other case, Congress since has          never attempted to do anything like that, to tell the          people ­­ to exercise control over what the government         officials in Puerto Rico ­­                JUSTICE SCALIA: That doesn't mean it       couldn't. That doesn't mean it couldn't change the law.                      Is it essential to your case that we        recognize Puerto Rico as a sovereign?                   MR. LANDAU: It is not essential that you        recognize Puerto Rico as a sovereign with a capital "S,"            because if you get political ­­                  JUSTICE SCALIA: That's our usual double       Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review jeopardy law, isn't it?                            MR. LANDAU: It ­­ it is ­­       JUSTICE SCALIA: ­­ two sovereigns, it's a        different matter.              MR. LANDAU: It is the shorthand that this         Court has typically used, the dual sovereignty doctrine.        But the court made clear this is the lesson of the           Wheeler case where the court was ­­ the Ninth Circuit          said, gee, these Indian tribes don't look like        sovereigns to us, because they are subject to the         plenary control of Congress. That's not what we         typically think of as sovereigns.                 And this Court says you're missing the       point, Ninth Circuit. What we mean in the context of           double jeopardy, the language we are construing is the         same offense. Laws ­­ offences created by two different          entities are not the same offense if they flow from          different sources of court.                JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, I don't understand how         that helps you, Mr. Landau. You're saying that the test           is what the source of authority is, and you're saying          that the source of authority here is the Puerto Rican          people.             MR. LANDAU: Correct.                JUSTICE KAGAN: But that seems to be just ­­          Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review you're not taking another step back. What's the source          of authority of Puerto Rican people? The source of          authority of Puerto Rican people was a Congressional         act. If you go back, the ultimate source of authority           is Congress.              MR. LANDAU: That, Your Honor, is the crux         of the case. And with all respect, I disagree with the             suggestion that the ultimate source here is Congress.        Congress could be ­­ what Your Honor just described is          very much like a home rule jurisdiction, where, let's          say, you have the Virgin Islands legislature that passes         a Virgin Islands law. But that government of the Virgin           Islands is itself a creature of Congress, as was the           government of the Philippines in the early s, and         Puerto Rico in 's at the time of the Shell case.                       What made all the difference in the world,        Your Honor, was in to ' Congress said, we          recognize and fully endorse the government ­­ the        concept of government by consent. So we are not          delegating authority to ­­                JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, but Congress today, if        it felt like it ­­ and of course it won't. But if it              felt like it, could Congress go back on that decision?                      MR. LANDAU: Well, this then goes to the         relinquishment issue, Your Honor, in terms of what is         Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review the nature of the compact. This has been a very            emotional and hot­button issue in Puerto Rico. As Chief          Judge McGruder noted in his article in already,         there were divergent views at the time from the very          outset on whether ­­               JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, suppose we assume       that Congress could rescind the existing compact.                               case?             MR. LANDAU: Right.    JUSTICE KENNEDY: Do you then lose your        MR. LANDAU: Absolutely not, Your Honor. And        that is ­­                          JUSTICE KENNEDY: Why?    MR. LANDAU: Because this is, again, the        lesson of Wheeler. It was uncontested in Wheeler that          plenary congressional control over the Indians ­­ over        the Indian tribes meant that Congress could abrogate        Indian sovereign immunity with the stroke of a pen, and           even abrogate the tribes and derecognize the tribes.        But that didn't mean that the existing tribal laws at          the time were not considered the laws of the separate          tribes ­­             JUSTICE KENNEDY: Are there ­­ you know,        "sovereignty" is a slippery word. That's why the          framers didn't use it in the constitution.       Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review             Are you suggesting there's kind of a second         class sovereignty and a first class sovereignty?                    MR. LANDAU: Well, Your Honor, I ­­ I          couldn't agree more with your insight, that       "sovereignty" is a slippery word. If you got           political philosophers, they would all give you a        different answer as to what "sovereignty" means. And I          think that is precisely why Wheeler said we can't have          judges and courts trying to decide double jeopardy        questions by asking abstract questions of sovereignty,       because, you know, even the State sovereignty is        different than the sovereignty of the independent       nations. They don't have ambassadors, et cetera. So          what this Court has made clear is that the test in the            double jeopardy context is all about the source of         authority for the laws.                And going back to Justice Kagan's question,       which I think cuts to the heart of the case, in this             particular case Congress said, we ­­ and this is         pursuant to demands for ­­ by the people of Puerto Rico           for government by consent. The people of Puerto Rico          said, we are tired of being a colony. We want to create              our own government. And so the Constitution of Puerto          Rico could not be more explicit on this score, that it           says, "The political power of the Commonwealth emanates        Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review from the people." That document was submitted to the          Puerto Rico voters. So you're a Puerto Rico voter and            you say this is what I'm voting for. It was submitted            to the President of the United States and Congress, who          approved that particular ­­               JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Landau, we have a        situation as a result of the decision of the Supreme           Court of Puerto Rico. I think it was two of the             justices who said we're not going to get into this          business about the Constitution. We think, interpreting        our own double jeopardy provision, somebody should not        be tried a second time. So that's going to be the law              of Puerto Rico. That's ­­ if the Puerto Rico Supreme           Court said that, then we would have the situation that          has led us to grant cert in this case. That is, if you              have a prosecution first in the Federal government, then          Puerto Rico will not have a second prosecution. You           have it first in Puerto Rico. The Federal government is           free to institute a second prosecution.                   MR. LANDAU: You're absolutely ­­ you're       absolutely right, Your Honor. And that was the position          of two of the nine justices on the Supreme Court of           Puerto Rico. That position did not command a majority,           which is why there's no adequate and independent State         ground here. The majority was very explicit ­­        Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review             JUSTICE GINSBURG: And they could. They        could. If ­­ if the ­­ if we told the majority you're             wrong, nothing would prevent them from agreeing with        those two justices, right?                MR. LANDAU: No, that's absolutely right.       And ­­ and about ­­                 JUSTICE GINSBURG: Then there's no way you        could break that situation of having ­­ it depends on          which ­­ which jurisdiction goes first.                  MR. LANDAU: That's correct, Your Honor.       And that ­­ that is true in about states, that as a             matter of State law, either statutory or constitutional,        do not allow a subsequent prosecution.                    But again, that doesn't change the point.      What ­­ what made a cert grant appropriate and          intolerable was that the Federal ­­ was the difference         between the Federal and State courts in Puerto Rico on          the federal constitutional question. It was not if one          were Federal and one were State.                  JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Mr. Landau, there's      something you said that resonates with me, 'cause I've         been trying to find a definition of "sovereignty." And           one has been created in the briefing by saying that          states are sovereign; yet if you look at international         usage, they wouldn't consider states necessarily      Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review sovereign because they can't order their foreign       affairs. They can't print money. They can't do lots of            things that others would consider them sovereign for.                    So I guess the Constitution does something        else with that word. What is it ­­ what are the            elements of sovereignty with respect to the Double        Jeopardy Clause that you think are commanded by our case          law? There ­­ there's more than just the Puerto Rican           people say.                          MR. LANDAU: Absolutely.    JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: And it can't be that        it's the compact alone. So what is it? What are the             principles ­­                         MR. LANDAU: Absolutely.    JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: ­­ that you meet that        would create sovereignty in the Double Jeopardy sense?                    MR. LANDAU: To ­­ to take your ­­ your          question in turn, Your Honor, this Court has made it          clear in a series of cases starting in Wheeler in            that really tries to synthesize what the Court has been          saying with respect to the dual sovereignty doctrine        over a century.                And what the Court said is, in the Double         Jeopardy context, we are trying to decide whether two         offenses from different entities are the same offense.        Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review That has traditionally been called "dual sovereignty."                   But what we mean by "dual sovereignty" in        this context doesn't require this broader ­­ let's        say ­­ I'll call it "sovereignty with a capital S"           inquiry. It is a much more targeted and narrow inquiry            into ­­ is the ­­ the source of authority for each           offense.             JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Now, I'm looking at       Lanza, and it says ­­ I think Lanza says, and it's a             Double Jeopardy ­­              JUSTICE KAGAN: Right.                JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: ­­ Clause, that for       Double Jeopardy Clause purposes, sovereignty means, one,       that the separate entity possesses the authority to        determine what shall be an ­­ an offense against their          peace and dignity; two, can enact laws without the         interference of the other; and, three, draws authorities        to punish the offender ­­ and this is the one that           you've been arguing ­­ from a distinct source of power           from the other sovereign.                MR. LANDAU: Right.                JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: And ­­ and you keep        saying it's the Constitution. It's the "We the People."          It sounds a ­­ a bit histrionic to me. It ­­ there's               something else. What is meant ­­      Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review MR. LANDAU: It is, Your Honor. And I ­­           JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: ­­ by this distinct                   and I ­­               source of power?               MR. LANDAU: If ­­ if could just say ­­ make           two quick points in response to that.                   First, Lanza is not the last word on this         because Wheeler, in the 's, clarified what Lanza meant         because, for instance, the Ninth Circuit in Wheeler        said, well, the Indian Tribes don't fit the Lanza         definition because Congress has plenary authority to       overrule at any time. So that goes to the first part of             your question.              To the second part of your question, it is         Congress acting in tandem with the people of Puerto Rico          that's critical. In other words, it is certainly not          the people of Puerto Rico that could unilaterally and         without reference to Congress just say, guess what? We          are the source of authority of our own laws. And ­­ and             that would be the end of the story.                    JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Landau, I thought        that, in the ­­ in the case of the Indian Tribes,           what ­­ what the Court said is they were once sovereign           before we got here and we took some of that sovereignty           away. Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review                         That's not the case with Puerto Rico.       MR. LANDAU: Yes. We are certainly not         saying that we are absolutely on all fours with the          Indian Tribes. There are ­­ what Your Honor said is           true. Although one thing to keep in mind, of course, is            that not all tribes proceeded the ­­ the ­­ the creation           of the United States. In fact, if Congress can          recognize Indian Tribes to this day, the standard is         under C.F.R. .. And an entity that existed as           recently at can still be considered an Indian         tribe. So ­­               JUSTICE GINSBURG: But the rationale was       that the tribes had this sovereignty, and that's what         was being respected.               MR. LANDAU: That ­­ that ­­ that is         correct, Your Honor. The ­­ the ­­ the tribes had an            inherent sovereignty. But I think the point for Double           Jeopardy purposes doesn't require the inherency. It        just requires a ­­ a recognition by Congress of an            exercise of sovereignty. And that goes, I think ­­                      JUSTICE BREYER: Well, what is it? That is,          look. If we simply write an opinion and it says, Puerto            Rico is sovereign, that has enormous implications.                               MR. LANDAU: It does.     JUSTICE BREYER: The insular cases are       Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review totally changed in their applications.                             MR. LANDAU: Right.    JUSTICE BREYER: The political implications      I'll just stay away from.                 On the other hand, if we write an opinion         that says it's just a territory, that has tremendous          implications.                         MR. LANDAU: Correct.    JUSTICE BREYER: How did we tell the UN it          wasn't a colony? Why are we not reporting on this            colony every year?                           MR. LANDAU: Correct.    JUSTICE BREYER: So either way, between       those two, the implications in law and in politics and          everything else are overwhelming.                Therefore, you argue a third and middle        position. Your position pointing to four cases in this          Court, so you have very good authority. It's for Double           Jeopardy purposes. There is a different question. The           question is what are the sources of the law? And then I             find four cases that say just what you said. Okay?                       Now, you say the sources of the law, the         sources of criminal law here are different. Okay. What           I think Justice Sotomayor wanted you to say is explain          that. Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review MR. LANDAU: Yes.    JUSTICE BREYER: Take a little time, if you                                  like. In what way are they different?                                MR. LANDAU: Absolutely, Your Honor.      They are different, Your Honor, because      Congress invited ­­ in Public Law , Congress said, we          recognize the principle of government by consent. That         is something that we, as Congress rightly ­­                   JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Going back to the       political issues. And ­­ and ­­ and that's what I think             Justice Breyer is trying to stay away from.                    This is a very simple question.                   MR. LANDAU: Okay.                JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: All right? Can the        Federal government override a Puerto Rican law?                    MR. LANDAU: Your Honor ­­                 JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Can they ­­                 MR. LANDAU: This goes to ­­                  JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Can they veto a Puerto         Rican law?              MR. LANDAU: No, absolutely not.                  JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: All right.                 MR. LANDAU: They cannot.                 JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Who makes these laws?                   MR. LANDAU: The people of Puerto Rico ­­        Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review well, the legislative assembly, the ­­ the ­­ the         legislative powers of which were vested by the people of          Puerto Rico in the legislative assembly. In other         words, the Puerto Rico Constitution could not be more         specific in saying "We, the people of Puerto Rico, in          exercise of our" ­­               JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: The laws were made by        Puerto Rico's comparable Congress.                MR. LANDAU: That is correct, Your Honor.        And ­­ and this is the ­­ I think the point I'd really              like to underscore, because I think it's critical here,          is this arrangement was not something that Puerto Rico         did as a rogue usurpation of authority. This was           pursuant to the invitation of Congress and with the         blessing of Congress. That was submitted to the         Congress. The Congress saw that language.                   JUSTICE KAGAN: Even in saying that,       Mr. Landau, you're putting Congress in the driver's seat         here: It was done at the invitation of Congress.          Congress approved it. Presumably Congress can unapprove        it if Congress ever wished to.                  So if Congress is in the driver's seat, why         isn't Congress the source of authority for the purposes         of our Double Jeopardy jurisprudence ­­                 MR. LANDAU: Because ­­    Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review             JUSTICE KAGAN: ­­ which seems to make that         the issue? I mean, you can imagine a different Double             Jeopardy jurisprudence where the issue was who just        exercises authority in the real world? But that seems          not to be what we ask.                  MR. LANDAU: That's ­­ that's correct.       That's correct. And I think that ­­ that the key point             that I'd like to make, Your Honor, is that you have to            look at ­­ Congress has plenary authority over the         territories under the Territorial Clause. Our position        is that Congress is not the prisoner of its plenary          authority; it is the master of plenary authority.                    And therefore, when Congress can decide      that, for the long­term future of Puerto Rico, it does          not think it is appropriate or good for ­­ for Puerto           Rico or the United States to have direct or delegated          Federal power in Puerto Rico. It says we accede to           the ­­ the request of the Puerto Rican people to create           their own government and to be the source of authority          of their own law.                So that's what Congress invites. The people        of Puerto Rico accept the invitation. They enact a          Constitution that is entirely explicit saying the       political power of the Commonwealth creates the       structure, creates a legislative authority, vests the        Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review courts of Puerto Rico with judicial authority ­­                   JUSTICE KENNEDY: Let ­­ let's call this ­­        this theory of yours interim sovereignty. Are there any          examples in international law of interim sovereignty?                   Are there any examples in international law       or in the United States' experience of a dichotomy such           as you suggest?               MR. LANDAU: Your Honor, again, I think ­­                     JUSTICE KENNEDY: I ­­ I ­­ I just don't             know the answer to that.                 MR. LANDAU: I think that ­­ that ­­ that,           in a sense, the danger of that is that's already going            back to asking about concepts of sovereignty. And I          think the more one asks those more abstract questions,         it gets away from what is a much simpler question, which            is ­­ I think this goes back to Justice Sotomayor's           point, which is what is ­­ we have before us here ­­           we ­­ this is a specific case or controversy.                      Nobody's asking the Court to make a broad         political statement. All we want to know is may Puerto           Rico, may the Commonwealth prosecutors prosecute these       particular Puerto Rico Commonwealth gun charges or ­­       and ammunition charges? Okay?                 The ­­ the source of authority for these        particular laws is the legislature of Puerto Rico, and         Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review that legislative authority does not come from delegated        power from Congress.                           CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Why does that ­­       MR. LANDAU: That's what distinguishes this       from municipalities ­­ I'm sorry.                 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Why does ­­ why does         the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico have that authority?        Where did it come from?                 MR. LANDAU: The ­­ Congress can recognize        and invite an exercise of sovereignty, just like this         Court recognized in Lara.                CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But it had complete        authority under the Territorial Clause whether to do        that or not, right?                MR. LANDAU: That's correct. And that is         exactly ­­             CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So that would ­­       I ­­ it would seem to me, then, that the authority to do             it came from Congress when they passed the ­­                    MR. LANDAU: But ­­                CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: ­­ the law       authorizing Puerto Rico to adopt a Constitution of its          own.             MR. LANDAU: But ­­ but this ­­ you just          said authorizing. I think the key point is it invited            Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review Puerto Rico. And ­­ and what it did is the Constitution            that Puerto Rico adopted and that Congress then accepted         specifically says political power emanates from the       people. So Your Honor, I think ­­                    CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Why is ­­ I mean,          you seem to fix on invited as somehow different than          authorized.             MR. LANDAU: Well, even if you said ­­ I          guess the point is authorized sounds like a delegation          of authority.                I think the point is Congress said, look,       you go adopt your own constitution. That in and of           itself doesn't necessarily answer the question of where        the authority from that constitution comes from. But         again, when it says fully recognizing the principal of         government by consent, this is what the people of         Puerto Rico wanted. They wanted to ­­ to create their           own government. They didn't want to have another         Organic Act.              JUSTICE SCALIA: Aren't there territorial      legislatures?             MR. LANDAU: There are indeed, Your Honor.        In ­­ in ­­               JUSTICE SCALIA: What's the difference?                  MR. LANDAU: The difference is ­­      Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review             JUSTICE SCALIA: Why ­­ why can't you say         the laws they enact have as their source the ­­ the           people of the territory?                MR. LANDAU: You could. And in fact, that          was the tradition in the th century. We cited a           number of cases ­­ of course there weren't a lot of            these kind of cases in the th century because the          Federal government had very, very limited criminal       power. So these come up in things like counterfeiting          money and selling liquor to the Indians.                               But ­­ but so ­­ so the ­­       JUSTICE GINSBURG: May I just ask you a          question about that? I don't quite understand because          this ­­ this whole issue is a result of a five­to­four             decision of this Court in the s, right? Bartkus.                                              JUSTICE SCALIA: Bartkus.    MR. LANDAU: But yeah, I mean, certainly ­­         JUSTICE GINSBURG: So ­­ so talking about        cases before that, there was just ­­ there was no issue           before that.              MR. LANDAU: Well, Your Honor, certainly       the ­­ the principle of dual sovereignty had been         recognized by this Court as early as the s; in other           words, that ­­ that two offenses for Double Jeopardy         purposes were not the same if ­­ if they were created by            Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review different entities with something that this Court had        recognized, albeit in ­­               JUSTICE GINSBURG: Recognized how, because      this was ­­ it was a very close case, as you know.                         again ­­             MR. LANDAU: Absolutely. Absolutely. And        JUSTICE GINSBURG: And so I don't think it          was settled before then.                MR. LANDAU: Well, but it ­­ it was         something that ­­ it has been an issue that had divided           people in the Court. In the more recent cases since the            s, it has not been a particularly divisive issue.          And just to be clear in this case, there is no call by             the other side to overrule ­­                 JUSTICE GINSBURG: I'm questioning you      looking back before the Bartkus case, for precedent.                    MR. LANDAU: Right. But Bartkus didn't come        out of the blue, Your Honor. Bartkus has antecedents.                      Lanza was the first case in when        prohibition is what really suddenly had federal criminal        laws that were quite widespread throughout the country.        And Lanza is, I think, the first case you can           characterize as a square holding of this case on the           dual sovereignty doctrine.               It continued to be a somewhat controversial        Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review doctrine up until the s, and then it's been, I          think, settled since then. And it's not been challenged          in this case.               JUSTICE SCALIA: Mr. Landau, I'm not sure        you answered my question about why territorial       legislatures are different.               MR. LANDAU: They are different because       those ­­ the other ones are Home Rule legislatures. In           other words, there's a Virgin Islands Organic Act,         there's a Guam Organic Act. So Congress ­­ and a D.C.              Home Rule Act.                Congress created that government structure    and endowed it with authority. Pursuant to what         Congress did, the people have a certain degree of          autonomy. They elect their legislators. D.C. has D.C.          laws. The Virgin Islands has Virgin Islands law. You           know, to some extent or other those can be vetoed,          maybe, by Congress.               JUSTICE SCALIA: If you say that the issue         is the source of the law in question, it seems to me            that the territorial legislature is as much the source         of a law as is the legislature of Puerto Rico.                       MR. LANDAU: The question, Your Honor, is        the ultimate source of authority for the law. So when           you have a Home Rule jurisdiction ­­ again, this is ­­           Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review I'm not saying that this is what this Court has held,           that when you have a Home Rule jurisdiction ­­ this is            the Waller case, for instance, where it's a        municipality, was clearly ­­ the city council was the         source of the law. But the ultimate source of the law            was delegated power from the State.                  The critical point here is that the       Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the legislative assembly of        Puerto Rico ­­ this goes back to Justice Sotomayor's         point and Justice Kagan's point ­­ is not exercising         power delegated by Congress ­­                JUSTICE KENNEDY: I see your ­­ I see your            time is getting up. It seemed to me that in a way, if               you answered Justice Scalia's question, well, yes, it        is ­­ it is true that local legislature is the source of            the law, and there is Double Jeopardy there too. Yes.                       MR. LANDAU: Well, you ­­ again, that would         be another way of looking at the ­­ at the issue. And             that, frankly, was the historical way of looking at it.          If you go back to the s cases, they said          territories, which at that time were creatures of        Congress, that was considered to be a separate sovereign          for Double Jeopardy. That's the historical antecedent.        But in the th century, particularly in Wheeler and the          more recent cases, the Court has said the question is          Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review the ultimate source of authority.                 The ultimate source of authority for the       laws of Puerto Rico, unlike the ultimate source of         authority for the laws of the Virgin Islands, is the          people of Puerto Rico, not Congress.                              I'd like to reserve the balance of my time.         CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.       Mr. Unikowsky.             ORAL ARGUMENT OF ADAM G. UNIKOWSKY                      ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTS               MR. UNIKOWSKY: Mr. Chief Justice, and may        it please the Court:                Under our Constitution, States are sovereign      and territories are not.                Although Puerto Rico has indisputedly     achieved a historic degree of autonomy, it remains a          territory under Article IV. As such, it cannot be          considered sovereign for Double Jeopardy purposes.                  An unbroken line of this Court's Double       Jeopardy cases has stated, both before and after the         enactment of the constitution of Puerto Rico, that         territories are not sovereign for Double Jeopardy       purposes.             JUSTICE KAGAN: It does seem, Mr. Unikowsky,        as if Congress has given Puerto Rico as much authority          Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review as it possibly could have short of making it a State            itself. Do you disagree with that?                   MR. UNIKOWSKY: Well, two responses. One,        yes, I disagree with that. And two, even if I agreed              with that, we do think that there is a sharp dividing            line between States and territories for constitutional       purposes.             it?             JUSTICE BREYER: What kind of territory is        MR. UNIKOWSKY: It is a ­­ we think there's           only one type of territory ­­                 JUSTICE BREYER: There is. The ­­ the         insular cases have at least two.                  MR. UNIKOWSKY: Well, yes. The insular        cases that hold that it is considered an unincorporated         territory. That is true.                                         Asociado?             JUSTICE BREYER: Okay. So it's that kind.         MR. UNIKOWSKY: Yes.    JUSTICE BREYER: Now, what is Estado Libre        MR. UNIKOWSKY: Your Honor, I believe that's         a case that just construed a Federal statute to hold ­­                       JUSTICE BREYER: No, no. I just wonder as           it appears in the Constitution of Puerto Rico.                    MR. UNIKOWSKY: Well ­­    Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review             JUSTICE BREYER: The alternative of the word        Commonwealth.                                     MR. UNIKOWSKY: Well, Your Honor ­­      JUSTICE BREYER: I just wonder what it is.          MR. UNIKOWSKY: We believe that the       Constitution does not include that as a constitutional         category, just as it doesn't ­­                 JUSTICE BREYER: Where does it say in the         Constitution that Congress cannot? After all, Congress        can admit a State. It says that specifically.                                  MR. UNIKOWSKY: It certainly does ­­      JUSTICE BREYER: Talks about territories.      So you're saying Congress and the President too do not          have the authority to associate with some other entity         under the form of Estado Libre Asociado?                   MR. UNIKOWSKY: That is correct, Your Honor.                    JUSTICE BREYER: Where does it say that in         any of our cases?                MR. UNIKOWSKY: Well, I think the Yankton         case very clearly says that if a portion of land is not             in a State, then it has to be under a territory.                         JUSTICE BREYER: And what are the Indians?                    MR. UNIKOWSKY: Your Honor, the Indian       tribes are a sui generis category explicitly recognized         in the Constitution ­­   Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review             JUSTICE BREYER: Because ­­ because we do        not recognize explicitly in the Constitution      "Commonwealth," therefore there is no Commonwealth? Is        that what you want us to say?                   MR. UNIKOWSKY: I want you to say that this           Court has already held in the Harris case that         Puerto Rico is a territory. And not only that, that ­­                        JUSTICE BREYER: With some purposes. But        the ­­ the issue here, as I see it ­­ which maybe will              take a second ­­ is there are four cases that say we             don't have to reach these grand questions. All we have           to do is decide what the source of power is.                      Now their argument is that even if you go         back to the Foraker Act, which indeed did have the          people of Puerto Rico making laws, and if you then add           the Resolution which delegated the authority to make         the Constitution, the Constitution itself which speaks       of "We the People" of Puerto Rico making a law, the fact             that later Congress and the President said Puerto Rico         has a Republican form of government, the fact that          subsequent to that we went to the United Nations and had           them withdraw the requirement to report on a colony          because Puerto Rico is not a colony ­­ ­ and you know              the words as well as I, and they sure sound like           "sovereign." Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review             And in Valle, which no one mentions,       Trias Monge wrote that in fact all these laws ­­ and he            was talking about civil, but I suppose it applies to           Commonwealth too ­­ are to be interpreted in light of          the civil code tradition of Europe, which was the         tradition that applied prior to , and not the common          law.               I don't see, when you put all those things        together, if you're looking at the facts of what the law           of Puerto Rico is in the area, it sounds to me like it's             civil code coming out of a constitution which I grant            you was given by authority of Congress. So there we           are.             Now five things they've listed there that       make it different, not only from anything you can think          of but from anything I can think of. So why don't you              reply to those five things, if you want.                    MR. UNIKOWSKY: Your Honor, those five       things established ­­              JUSTICE SCALIA: Take your time.                  (Laughter.)             MR. UNIKOWSKY: I think those features of         Puerto Rico and others established that Puerto Rico has         undoubtedly achieved a significant degree of autonomy,        but those characteristics are not the characteristics       Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review that matter for sovereignty purposes or for Double        Jeopardy purposes. The question is the ultimate source         of power, and here the ultimate source of power is          Congress, which delegated the authority to enact the        Puerto Rican Constitution.                        And I'd also point out that if one        looks at the characteristics of sovereignty as defined        in the Constitution and this Court's cases, Puerto Rico         doesn't have them.          For instance, in the Alden cases, this Court        explained one of the reasons we call States sovereign is          that one cannot frame their generally ­­ general police         power as the delegation of Federal power because the         Federal government doesn't have a general police power         in the States, so there's nothing to delegate. That's          just not true in Puerto Rico where ­­                   JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But that was not true of         many of the territories that were admitted as States.         They came in to Statehood and were conferred by a ­­ the             sovereignty was conferred by a ­­ agreement with the          Federal government. And States were admitted by        agreement, and sovereignty were confirmed on them by        agreement.             And so are you telling me that if ­­ let's          say one of the islands in the Caribbean. I'll make one            Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review up. Okay?               Atlantis has been ­­ never kicked out its        foreign colonial status years ago, but it really         doesn't have many resources. And it comes to the          United States and it says, I want a treaty. You'll take              care of all of our external affairs. We'll follow          whatever you say with respect to external affairs.        We're even going to use the American dollar 'cause it's          convenient, but you can't touch our internal affairs.        And Congress approves that treaty. Would that, for         Double Jeopardy purposes, not be a sovereign?                    MR. UNIKOWSKY: I think it wouldn't be a          sovereign if that was not part of the United States, not           subject ­­             wouldn't?             JUSTICE KENNEDY: I couldn't hear. Would or          MR. UNIKOWSKY: It wouldn't. So for        instance, we can see that Micronesia and Palau, which         are not independent countries, I believe in the         United Nations, are ­­ are genuinely sovereign, even        though there are defense agreements with the       United States because the United States has foreign        allies with whom they have many treaties and        relationships, and those foreign allies may be       sovereign, but those aren't territories. They're not ­­        Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review the American flag doesn't fly over them, they're not         subject to plenary power of Congress and Federal law.                     That's the distinction in Puerto Rico, which       is, indisputably, a territory ­­                 JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But if Congress has that        treaty power, why does it have similar power under its          Rule and Regulation Clause of the Constitution? There's         no limiting principle of what rules and regulations        Congress can make.               MR. UNIKOWSKY: Well, let me refer, Your        Honor, both to ­­               JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Under that ­­                 MR. UNIKOWSKY: I apologize.                  JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR ­­ under that      constitutional clause, there's no suggestion of how or        even what kinds of treaties ­­ perhaps not in violation          of the Constitution, but what kind of treaties Congress         can make. And it makes an awful large number of them.                        MR. UNIKOWSKY: It does, Your Honor. But         let me refer to both the constitutional text and         structure as the basis of our argument. Beginning with          the text, Article IV characterizes territories as,       quote, "belonging to the United States." And we believe          that is antithetical to the concept of sovereignty.                    Congress has the ultimate power to enact a         Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review wide variety of the governmental forms in the        territories, but the sine qua non of a territory is           that, in fact, Congress does possess that power.                     And I'd also refer to the constitutional      structure. The framers of our Constitution split the         atom of sovereignty between the Federal government and        the States. And I think that presupposes that the           question of what types of sovereigns would exist in the          United States is a question of constitutional ­­                    JUSTICE BREYER: The Indians. What about        the Indians?              JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Unikowsky, it sure seems        as though in the early s, Congress with respect to          Puerto Rico, said we want to give it some sovereign          authority. We want to give it an enormous amount of           Home Rule authority, basically everything, and we also        have some idea in our heads that Puerto Rico ought to be            a sovereign with all the things sovereigns have like a          Constitution and a "We the People" clause.                    And ­­ and why isn't that something ­­       it's ­­ it's an unusual idea, to be sure, a ­­ a             sovereign territory. But Congress seems to have wanted         to do exactly that.                MR. UNIKOWSKY: Well, I'd first push back on         your premise. I don't think that's what Congress wanted           Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review to do. I think that the history, the legislative           history, and the ­­ the events, the historical record,         show that Congress wanted to delegate autonomy, which is         different from creating a sovereign.                    So first I'd ­­ I'd turn to the issue of        Section in which Congress just unceremoniously       stripped a portion of the Puerto Rican Constitution and          permanently barred Puerto Ricans from enacting ­­      reenacting it. That is not consistent with what I think            we ordinarily consider a sovereign.                  And I'd also point to the legislative       history and record. I mean, there's testimony from the           Secretary of the Interior, from The Resident       Commissioner of Puerto Rico, from the Governor of        Puerto Rico, in the House report, in the Senate report.          All of that seemed to contemplate that the political         status of Puerto Rico wouldn't change and this was just          a delegation.                I mean, there was actually a hearing we        quote on page of our brief where the chairman of the            relevant Senate committee basically tells everybody      that, in fact, Congress's powers over Puerto Rico        wouldn't be altered at all; that ultimately this was a          delegation of power that one ­­ that was revoked and          wouldn't change Congress's ultimate power over      Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review Puerto Rico.              So I actually think it's Petitioner's       position that really is fundamentally inconsistent with       the historical record as it existed at the time.                       We don't dispute that there's ­­ this is      historic legislation. I mean, it's true. Petitioner's          brief characterizes the to ' legislation as,        quote, "path marking." And we actually agree with that,          it was path marking. It was historic legislation that          delegated a significant amount of power to the people of           Puerto Rico, and it was very historically important, and         remains important today.               But there is a difference, a meaningful         constitutional difference between the delegation of      power and the conferral of sovereignty. The former         occurred in Puerto Rico, as it has occurred in other          territories. The latter can only apply to States within          our union.              JUSTICE KENNEDY: And is ­­ is our argument         so abstract that it doesn't acknowledge real       practicalities of multiple prosecutions? Of ­­ of        course Mr. Landau couldn't come up and say, please         forget Heath and Wheeler and Walter and Grafton. Let's          do something other than sovereignty.                 Has there been any suggestion by      Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review commentators and so forth that this whole inquiry of         sovereignty and source of power is a little bit          misplaced?             Of course, you have the problem with the        cities within its ­­ within separate ­­ within one         State, which is, it seems, ought to be subject to a           single rule. But have there been any commentaries that          lead us to another approach altogether? I don't think           we're going to overrule four cases, but ­­                   MR. UNIKOWSKY: I will acknowledge that        there has been some larger articles suggesting that this         whole line of cases is wrong and the Court should look           to something else, to autonomy. But certainly this         Court's cases, going back a century, haven't followed         that approach at all.                And I actually think the municipality       example is a very good one for us because cities           regularly enact Home Rule charters through a very         similar type of Democratic process that Petitioner       describes for Puerto Rico.                The fundamental principle of Petitioner's     position here is that the enactment of a ­­ of a charter              of local self­government setting forth the parameters       for local self­government in and of itself leads to         sovereignty. That's how they distinguish the Shell        Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review case. But if that's true, the ­­ there's no limiting           principal because municipalities do that all the time.                      I didn't fully understand ­­               JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Unikowsky, you ­­ you        said before that Congress didn't mean to confer        sovereignty here. Do you think Congress could do that?                      MR. UNIKOWSKY: No, Your Honor, it could        not. We think that the Constitution prohibits that, and          Congress's exercise of its powers was fully consistent        with that constitutional requirement.                JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I'm sorry. You ­­       you're saying to me that Congress can't make Puerto Rico          independent?             Honor.             MR. UNIKOWSKY: Of course it could, Your        JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So if it can do that,         why can't it have other arrangements with Puerto Rico         the way it has with everybody else? Why are we saying            that with respect to territories they don't have that         power?             MR. UNIKOWSKY: Your Honor, I think if         Congress ­­ if Puerto Rico is to remain a territory,           which it is under Article IV, as this Court has held,           then Congress must retain the ultimate power. I think           that follows from the constitutional structure in which        Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review the framers contemplated splitting the assets up ­­                   JUSTICE BREYER: We need to. I mean, we           told the UN, this doesn't sound like we said it was a            municipality.                         MR. UNIKOWSKY: Your Honor ­­     JUSTICE BREYER: UN said that Puerto Rico        has been invested with the attributes of political        sovereignty, which clearly identify the status of       self­government attained by the Puerto Rican people.                   UN?             JUSTICE SCALIA: Who said this? This is the          JUSTICE BREYER: This is what we told the         UN. We told the UN that ­­                   (Laughter.)                         JUSTICE BREYER: And on the basis of that ­­         JUSTICE SCALIA: Who ­­ who is "we"?                    (Laughter.)             here ­­                         JUSTICE BREYER: It's ­­ what it says        JUSTICE SCALIA: Who's we?     JUSTICE BREYER: It consists of the       President of the United States.                             delegate. JUSTICE SCALIA: The President said that?       JUSTICE BREYER: Or his delegate. His        Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review             CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We need to involve        counsel in the dialogue.                (Laughter.)             JUSTICE BREYER: I ­­ I have. You've read            the same thing. There are about ten words such as           "republic," "not a colony," "attributes of political        sovereignty," repeated in five or six key documents.                      I do ­­ not everyone does ­­ happen to think         that what we tell the UN to get it removed from the            colony status bears some consideration. I grant you not           everyone agrees with that, but that's my view of it.                      Laughter.             JUSTICE BREYER: All right. And I guess          I ­­ all right. Forget it.                   (Laughter.)             MR. UNIKOWSKY: Your Honor, we don't see any         inconsistency between what the State Department said and        our position today ­­               JUSTICE BREYER: You said it was like a         municipality. I just think that having the attributes          of political sovereignty, and being a republic, and         saying that the Constitution of Puerto Rico is the basic          document, whatever the language was there, don't sound        like a municipality.                MR. UNIKOWSKY: Your Honor, there are      Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review differences between a municipality and Puerto Rico, such         as Puerto Rico has a much more delegated power than the            typical municipality. That is undoubtedly true.                               But the ­­ there's no ­­     JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: You think that doesn't       have meaning? In most municipalities, their offenses        are treated as criminal offenses and not criminal        infractions. They can only pass laws with respect to a           very limited amount of issues.                 The States have control over many, many       other things. They are substantially different. Why         would we have bothered talking about the structure of         Florida's system with municipalities in Waller? We went         through how the State controlled all of the ­­ most of           the internal affairs of municipalities, and we said they         are not separate sovereigns because of this control.        All we could have said is what you want us to say now,             which is municipalities' ultimate source is the State        government.             case. But we did something very different in that                    MR. UNIKOWSKY: Your Honor, may I answer?                     CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Briefly.                 MR. UNIKOWSKY: Yes, Your Honor.                    I think that, already as of Shell, Puerto       Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review Rico enjoyed that broad police power. That's why         Petitioner's argument turns entirely on the existence of        the Constitution of Puerto Rico. And our point is that           the act of Constitution making, we don't think, can         confer sovereignty.              CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.                   Ms. Saharsky.             ORAL ARGUMENT OF NICOLE A. SAHARSKY                FOR UNITED STATES, AS AMICUS CURIAE,                     SUPPORTING THE RESPONDENTS               MS. SAHARSKY: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it         please the Court:                 I think to respond to some of the questions        that have come up, I'd like to go back and address what            the Court has said this test is, for dual sovereignty in           the Double Jeopardy context, and why it's been using         that test.              And the test that the Court has consistently        used for the past years is by looking to the           ultimate source of the authority, the laws for        prosecuting and the authority to prosecute. And the         reason that the Court has said that it's looked to that           ultimate source is because the dual sovereignty doctrine        rests on the basic structure of our Federal system.         That's what the Court said in Wheeler. And the Court           Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review has been very careful to guard who is a sovereign under            the Constitution and who is not, because, after all,         we're talking about a weighty power here, which is the           ability of two sovereigns to prosecute a person for an           offense with the same elements.                 So if you trace the history of what this         Court has done, it started with Lanza and Grafton.         Lanza was a case about the Federal government as opposed           to the States. And the Court said should they have this            power to dual prosecute? Well, we look to the          Constitution, and the unique structure that was put in         place: The splitting the atom of sovereignty. And we           are in a circumstance where both the States and the           Federal government have this sovereign power. They        should both be able to prosecute.                  But then the case ­­ the Court turned to         cases about the territories, which was the Shell case         about Puerto Rico, but then also the Grafton case about          the Philippines, and it said, no, the territories derive         their ultimate power from Congress. That's true by         virtue of the Territory Clause.                 Now, one thing that the Court has considered        in the course of those cases as they've evolved, I          think, is the suggestion that Justice Kennedy made,        which is maybe we should focus on something else like          Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review autonomy and the ability to prosecute, and what it looks          like practically, or on the ground.                  And the Court has consistently rejected a       test along those lines, and I think that we have three            data points for that.                JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I'm sorry. They haven't        issued that.              In all of those cases, Grafton and all of         the ones pre­, the Court pointed to the fact that,          when these islands pass laws, they could be vetoed by          Congress or ­­ or were ­­ that was the Organic Act.                       In all of these places, Congress was       appointing their legislature, in part, or they were        appointing colonial governors. And we went through, in         each one of them, very carefully, what the issues of          control that remained, that didn't make them sovereign        in any way, that made them classic territories.                      So it's not that we didn't ­­ we eschewed       looking at that.               MS. SAHARSKY: I don't think that's right.         And I'd like to just look at the specific example of           Puerto Rico that the Court considered in the Shell case.                      As you say, by that point, Puerto Rico ­­ or          as you suggested, there had already been significant        self­government in Puerto Rico. There were two houses         Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review of the legislature elected. And the Court, when asking          this question about whether there could be both Puerto         Rico antitrust defenses and Federal antitrust defenses,       went through the situation in Puerto Rico and said there          is significant self­government in here now. It defined         Puerto Rico as having an autonomy similar to that of the           States ­­ that's in ­­ and said that Congress had           given it a sweeping grant of legislative authority.                     But the Court nonetheless said that under       our constitutional system, as a territory of the United          States subject to Congress's authority, that Puerto Rico        was not a separate sovereign.                  JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But you forget that       Congress could veto those laws.                 MR. SAHARSKY: It ­­                JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Before , Congress      could veto Puerto Rico's laws. It has relinquished that          right.             MR. SAHARSKY: I don't think that that's         right. I don't think that that's right, and to the            extent the Petitioner suggests it, it's just not        consistent with the Territory Clause of the       Constitution, which, after all ­­                JUSTICE BREYER: Well, now, this is ­­                   JUSTICE KENNEDY: ­­ gives plenary power to         Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review Congress.             JUSTICE BREYER: This is ­­ it's very        interesting what you're saying.                 Remember, though, one of the provisions of      the Puerto Rico Constitution, which Congress approved       and said it was a Republican form of government, is that            criminal actions shall be conducted in the name and by          the authority of the people of Puerto Rico.                    Now, that sounds like a delegation of        authority as to source, to go back to the Spanish system           if they want.               Now, if I take your view, then I guess you            have to say ­­ and it has considerable implication ­­         that that doesn't matter because Congress can take back         what they gave.               Now, is that the position of the government        or the executive branch? Because that has tremendous         implication.                         MR. SAHARSKY: Right.    JUSTICE BREYER: Because obviously, there is       an argument as to whether what Congress and the         President gave in Resolution , followed by the        Constitution, followed by what happened at the UN, under         the authority ­­ and looking to Felix Frankfurter for         guidance, who said that the Constitution provides us        Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review with many forms of possible relationship. That's what         his view was.               And now, is the position of the executive        branch ­­ I mean, you want to take a position on this?              That ­­ that ­­ that Congress, if it wishes, can take           all of that back and Puerto Rico has no more          independence than ­­ in principle, than any of the other          places that were territories?                Now, that's ­­ that's a big question. But          do ­­ do you ­­ do you see it's an important question?                        And I want to know if the government's         position rests upon it, because that's ­­ that's an         important statement for the executive, in my opinion.                    MS. SAHARSKY: Well, two ­­ two responses to         that question.              The first, I think, is the first part of          your question, this statement in the Puerto Rico        Constitution that the authority to prosecute comes from        the people of Puerto Rico and that it's in the name of            the people of Puerto Rico. That's been true since .           That was in the Organic Act; that was true in .            Puerto Rico is not claiming that it was a sovereign           then. So I ­­ I would not rely on that.                         But the second and, obviously, more weighty       question you raised is the question of could ­­ could          Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review Congress revise the arrangements it has with Puerto        Rico? And we think the answer is yes, and that that            follows from the structure of the Constitution and its         history.               I want to explain why that's why, but first,        I think it's very important for us to say that          Congress's position towards Puerto Rico, starting in        through with the elected legislature ­­       elected legislators; , the elected governor; and       then this act in , has been one of increasing          self­government, recognizing the benefits of that to the        people of Puerto Rico. That's why Congress authorized         the enactment of the Constitution. We think that that's          a good thing. We have no reason to believe that           Congress would revisit that. And we think it's had many           benefits for the people of Puerto Rico and the United          States.             But asking the constitutional question,     which is what the Court has asked in its double jeopardy           cases, about whether Congress could revise the       arrangement with Puerto Rico, the answer is yes. And we           think that that follows from its status as a United           States territory because of two parts of the Territory         Clause.             The first is that territories belong to the        Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review United States, meaning that they are under the        sovereignty of the United States.                 And then second, that Congress is the one        who makes the rules.                And if I could just make one more point,          which is historically, the fact that Congress was ­­        that the United States was the sovereign and the only          sovereign in the territories was very important at the         time that the Constitution was put together.                      You may recall that the United States had     land there through the Northwest Ordinance, but it was         trying to figure out what to do with, and there were           questions with the States, what would happen. And so          that this provision needed to be added to the         Constitution to make clear that Congress was the one who          was going to make rules for the territories, and that it           would be under the sovereignty of the United States.                     things ­­                         JUSTICE BREYER: But there are some       MR. SAHARSKY: ­­ and in this ­­       JUSTICE BREYER: Let's go back to the        insular cases right there.                There are different kinds of territories.      It's because of that that Frankfurter says that the         Constitution has left the field of invention open. The          Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review decisions in the insular cases mean this, if they mean          anything: That there's nothing in the Constitution to         hamper the responsibility of Congress in working out        arrangements.             Now, if that's so, why couldn't Congress       delegate, without the power to take it back, the         authority to Puerto Rico to work out its own criminal          code subject to the constraints of the Bill of Rights,          et cetera? Why couldn't it? I mean, if Frankfurter is             right. Or do you take the opposite position, that it           couldn't?             MS. SAHARSKY: The insular cases were       talking about something different and narrower, which is        whether all the protections of the Bill of Rights apply          to the territories by their own force. But to answer           the broader question that you answered, or asked, we         think that it's inconsistent with the grant of authority         to Congress in the Constitution for a territory to be a            territory but no longer be sovereign, because the        Territory Clause defines territories of the United       States as subject to the authority of the United States.                      JUSTICE KAGAN: Do you think it's not        possible, Ms. Saharsky ­­ I mean, putting aside whether          Congress has done it here, but you think it's simply not           possible for Congress to confer sovereignty in the sense         Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review that would matter for the Double Jeopardy Clause?                    MS. SAHARSKY: Well, it certainly could by        making it a State ­­                             JUSTICE KAGAN: Yes.    MS. SAHARSKY: ­­ or by making it        independent.             of that.              JUSTICE KAGAN: But ­­ but ­­ but not short          MS. SAHARSKY: We think that that would just         be fundamentally inconsistent with the constitutional      design. And if I could just maybe give the ­­ the last              part of my historical answer, because I think it's very           important, is: When this provision was put into the          Constitution, it was coupled with the New States Clause,         and it was understood that the options for sovereignty         were statehood. It was not that if this was a           territory, that the territory was controlled by the        United States, and I think it would have been very           surprising to the States in the constitutional       conventions to think that when States were defined as         such important things in the Constitution, sharing the        sovereignty with the United States, that Congress could        somehow create a sovereign territory. We just don't          think that's correct.               JUSTICE SCALIA: Suppose Congress could also       Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review say, could it not, that ­­ in its criminal code, that if            a crime has been prosecuted and under Puerto Rican law          it will not be ­­ the same ­­ the same crime will not be              prosecuted under Federal law?                            wanted to?              MS. SAHARSKY: Well, I think there ­­        JUSTICE SCALIA: Couldn't it say that if it         MS. SAHARSKY: I think there are two         different options. Congress can define what crimes are         and whether they are crimes in Puerto Rico, as opposed          to somewhere else. So if that's what you're suggesting,          yes, I think that's what Congress could do. What we            don't think that Congress could do is change the meaning          of the Fifth Amendment and the Double Jeopardy Clause,         because that's something for this Court.                  JUSTICE SCALIA: No ­­ well, but ­­ no,         certainly Congress cannot ­­ cannot deny double jeopardy        effect to something that would be double jeopardy, but         I'm talking about a statute that says, even though it           might have double jeopardy effect, we say ­­ we say no.                       MS. SAHARSKY: Well ­­ right, and what I'm         saying is I think Congress' ability is to define crimes           and to set out what ­­ what they are and where they are,             but if the question is what the Fifth Amendment permits          and doesn't permit, we really think that's up to this          Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review Court.             JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, it's not a matter of          what the Fifth Amendment permits. Congress just says,         we will ­­ the Justice Department will not prosecute a          crime that has already been prosecuted in ­­ in Puerto          Rico.             MS. SAHARSKY: Right. And the Justice        Department can work with Puerto Rico to decide who will          prosecute what crimes. In fact, we do that as a general             matter so that there's usually not any overlap of the          kind that occurred in this case. But I think that's            just a very different thing from suggesting that Puerto          Rico is a sovereign under the Double Jeopardy Clause.                                              JUSTICE SCALIA: No, no, I understand that.         MS. SAHARSKY: But they're looking at it ­­        JUSTICE SCALIA: I'm just saying, if you        like that result, it can be done by the statute.                      MS. SAHARSKY: Right ­­ I'm sorry if I         misunderstood the question. I'm just trying to be extra          careful, because ­­              JUSTICE SCALIA: I'm trying to be helpful.                    (Laughter.)             MS. SAHARSKY: I know. I know. I ­­ I do                 understand that now. I just want to make sure that ­­                        (Laughter.) Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review             MS. SAHARSKY: I just want to make sure that           I'm being clear, because I think this case does raise a            lot of important questions, and I do think that this           Court's jurisprudence over the past years has been         very careful about what it means to be a double jeopardy            sovereign ­­             JUSTICE GINSBURG: Could you explain before       you sit down when and why the United States changed its           position on this question? Because as I understand it,           in ­­ in more than one brief, took the position that           Puerto Rico, for double jeopardy cases, is ­­ for the          Double Jeopardy Clause is ­­ is treated like a State.                       MS. SAHARSKY: That's right. The government        took that position in two courts of appeals and defended          it in a brief in opposition to this Court, where we also             said the issue didn't matter. But since that time, we           have revisited this issue, given substantial attention       to it, both within the Department of Justice and within          many agencies of the Federal government, and our        position as set out in our brief is that it is not a             separate sovereign. And we think that that's entirely         consistent with the other things we've learned and the         testimony that DOJ and others have given to Congress         about Puerto Rico's current status and options for the         future. Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review             The end of our brief talks about the task         force that the President has put in place, that has          issued reports three times over the past decade and a          half, which have said this is the constitutional status         Puerto Rico has now. To the extent the people of Puerto            Rico want to change it, here are the options that are           consistent with the Constitution. Tell us what you         want, and then Congress will decide where to go from          there.             So I would not want to suggest that as a           result of this case, that Puerto Rico's options are set          in stone. We don't think that they are set in stone.            We just think that right now Puerto Rico is a territory            of the United States, and as a result it's not a            separate sovereign under the Double Jeopardy Clause.                   And just to give the court the three data         points where the Court has said we're going to focus on           sovereignty under the Constitution and we're not going        to focus on autonomy or level of control, you have the           Puerto Rico v. Shell case which was where the Court said           Puerto Rico already has autonomy, but they're still not         a double jeopardy sovereign. You have Waller, which is          about municipalities and the State of Florida trying to         basically treat its municipalities as a sovereign, and         the Court said, no, no, no, you are not in the same            Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review relationship to your municipalities as the States are to         the Federal government; the municipalities are more like        the territories, there's a different ultimate source of         authority. And then the Court, with respect to the          Indian tribes, said even though Congress has the ability         to legislate for the tribes, they still have this         inherent source of authority that predated the       Constitution and was recognized in the Constitution.                   So for the Court to turn away from that, we          think, would really upend that precedent, and not for a          good reason, because ­­ I think I'd like to conclude, if            I can, where I started, which is: This power, this dual             sovereignty power, is a weighty power the Court has          reserved for those entities that have the ultimate power         under our Constitution, defined in our Constitution.       And for that reason, Puerto Rico, despite its        significant self­government, is not a sovereign under        the Constitution.                          CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.      Four minutes, Mr. Landau.             REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF CHRISTOPHER LANDAU                    ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER                             MR. LANDAU: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice.        If I could very briefly just say that         there's two real questions here, as the questioning has         Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review brought out. First, what happened in to '? And            B, if so, is that constitutional?                  There's no question, if you look at the        documents of to ', that Congress required Puerto         Rico to have a Republican form of government, which is a            government by the people, of the people. This was          understood at the time to be a new experiment. This was             not just another organic act. And the Constitution of          Puerto Rico, which was approved by Congress and the         President, says the power, the political power of the         Commonwealth emanates from the people. And Congress        recognized that. Okay. So that goes to the what           happened.             Then you go to the real meat of the case,          which is the constitutional argument. It is shocking         that the Respondents and the United States government in         this case are using the Territorial Clause as a         restriction on power, a limitation on power of         government. This is so ironic, for exactly what Justice          Breyer was saying: That the insular cases, if they          stand for anything, mean that Congress has plenary        control over the territories. That means that Congress         can come up with inventive solutions which are broader         than the only menu that they give, which is a colony            governed pursuant to direct or delegated Federal power,        Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review statehood, or independence. Where do they get this view          that you can't come up with something inventive like the          Commonwealth, or the estado libre asociado, as Justice        Breyer said? This is the genius of our system, that it            allows us to have these unincorporated territories ­­                   JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Mr. Landau, would you       explain what "estado libre asociado" means in Spanish?                    MR. LANDAU: It means "free associated       state," literally, and again, I think ­­                               JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Literally.    MR. LANDAU: ­­ it has the concept of free          and it has the concept of associated, and state, in          estado.             JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Do you know why they        didn't use that phrase in the compact with the United          States?             MR. LANDAU: I think they thought that ­­         that Commonwealth was the more natural English word.        I'm not sure, Your Honor.                 JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I believe, because I've        seen the Act, that they didn't because States have a          different meaning in the United States.                  MR. LANDAU: And again, we are certainly not         saying that we are a State. Again, that was the whole             genius of the Commonwealth. It allows flexibility by         Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review Congress to come up with these kind of creative         solutions. So ­­               JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: The Solicitor General's      office claims that Grafton says that when we're looking         at double jeopardy, we're looking at something       different. We're looking at territory versus state. Do          you agree with that reading of the Shell case and of           Grafton?             MR. LANDAU: Absolutely do not agree that        Grafton said that in any and all contexts, that         regardless of any kind of territory, it is invariably         going to have that political relationship. Grafton was         describing the particular relationship there, where the       Governor of Puerto ­­ of the Philippines was appointed         by the President. He ­­                             JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: And how about Shell?       MR. LANDAU: Just to finish that one point,         Your Honor, Grafton ­­ it was called Grafton v.         United States because the Phillipine prosecution was       brought in the name of the United States.                    Shell is exactly the same thing. The Shell         case said that was pursuant to an Organic Act, but          things changed in the s fundamentally.                  I'm not just saying this. This court        recognized in the whole series of decisions in the 's          Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review that there was a fundamental transformation and that         Puerto Rico represents a very unique constitutional        experiment in our history, about how we have an         unincorporated territory that exists in long­term      association with the United States, but being the        creator of its own government, which is very important         to the people of ­­ of the ­­ of the government.                       If there's one thing you read, please, in        our reply brief, read that Frankfurter memo because he,         as the law officer in the Department of War, addressed          exactly this issue. And please do not take the          Constitution of Puerto Rico away from the people of         Puerto Rico.              CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.       The case is submitted.                (Whereupon, at : p.m., the case in the        above­entitled matter was submitted.)    Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review Official ­ Subject to Final Review A a.m : : ability : : : : able : above­entitled : : abrogate : : absolutely : :, : :, : :, :, : abstract : : : accede : accept : accepted : : achieved : : acknowledge : : act : : :,, : : : : : : : : acting : actions : acts : : ADAM : : : add : : added : address : addressed : adequate : admit : admitted : : adopt : : adopted : affairs : : :,, : agencies : ago : agree : : :, agreed : agreeing : agreement :,, agreements : agrees : AL : albeit : Alden : allies :, allow : allows :, altered : alternative : altogether : ambassadors : amend :, : Amendment :, : American : : : : : amicus : : : ammunition : amount : : : analogous : answer :, : : : : : :, : : answered : : : antecedent : antecedents asking : autonomy : : antithetical : antitrust :, apologize : appeals : APPEARAN... : appears : applications : applied : applies : apply : : appointed : appointing :, approach : : appropriate : : approved : : : : approves : area : argue : arguing : argument : :,,, : : : : : : :, : : : arrangement : : arrangements : : : article : : : : articles : aside : asked : : :, : : asks : asociado : : :, assembly :, : assets : Assistant : associate : associated : : association : assume : Atlantis : atom : : attained : attempted : attention : attributes : :, authorities : authority : : : : : :,,, : :, :, : :, : :,,, : :, :,,, :, : : :,, : : : : : :, :, : : :, : : :,, :, authorized : : : authorizing :, : : : : : : :, awful : B B : back : :, : : : :, : :, : : : : :, : : : balance : barred : Bartkus : : :, : basic : : basically : : : basis : : bears : Beginning : behalf :, :,, : : : believe : : : : : : belong : belonging : benefits : : big : Bill :, bit : : blessing : blue : bothered : Alderson Reporting Company Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review : : : : : : : colony : characterize charges : close : code :, colloquy : colonial : characteristics :, : : :, : : : : : :, :,,, characterizes : : : : : : : :, charter : :, : charters : : : Chief :, : :,,, :, : : : : :, :, : :, : :, :, : comes : : : : :, : coming : : come :, : : : : : : : CHRISTOPH... :, : : :, : cases : : : :, :,, : :, : :, : : :, : :, : circumstance : : : : :, : : cited : cities :, city : Circuit :, : : category :, civil :,, cause : : claiming : century : :, : : claims : clarified : class :, cert : : classic : certain : certainly : clause : command : commanded : commentaries : commentators : Commissioner : committee : common : Commonwealth : :, : : : :, : : : : : : : :, : : : :, : : : : : cetera : : chairman : challenged : change : : :, : : changed : : : :, : : :, : : : : : :, Commonweal... : : : : : compact : : clear : : : : : : : clearly : : : : :, : : comparable : complete : concept : : :, concepts : conclude : conducted : confer : : : conferral : conferred : : confirmed : Congress : : :, :,,, : : : :, :,,, : :, : : :,, :, :, : :, :,,, :,,, :, : :,, :,, : : :, :, : : :, :,, : : : : :,,,, :,,, :, :, :,, : :, :,, :,,, : :, :, : :, :, :,, :, : :,, : : : : : :,,, : branch : : break : Breyer :, :,, : : :, :,, :,,,, : :, : :, :,,, : :, : : :, : : : : brief : : :,, : : briefing : briefly : : broad : : broader : : : brought : : business : C C : : C.F.R : call : : : : called : : capital : : care : careful : : : carefully : Caribbean : case :, : : :, : : :, Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review Congress' : Congress's :, : : : congressional : : consent : : : : consider : : : considerable : :, : : :, :, : :, : : :, court :, : :, : : : : : : constraints : construed : construing : contemplate : contemplated consideration : : considered : : : : : : : consistent : : : : : consistently : : context : : : : : contexts : continued : control : : : : :, : : : controlled : conviction : convenient : conventions : : : : controversy controversial consists : constitution : : : : : : : : :,, :, : :,, : :, : correct : :, :, :, : : : :, :, : :, : : : : :, : :, : : : : :, counterfeiting :, :, :,, : : : : :, : :, : : : council : counsel : : countries : country : coupled : constitutional crux : curiae : : demands : course : : crimes :, : : criminal : : : : :, : : : : : : : current : cuts : : :, : :,,, critical : : : :,, :,, : : : : :, : : :, : : : : : :, D : :,,, D.C :,,, :,, :,,, :,, : danger : data : : : : day : : : : :, de : deal : :, : decade : :, : decide : D Court's : : : : courts : : : : covers : create : : : : : created : : : : creates :, creating : creation : creative : creator : creature : creatures : crime :, : : : : : : decision : : : decisions : : defended : defense : defenses :, define :, defined : : : : defines : definition : : degree : : : delegate : : :, : delegated : : : :, : : : : : delegating : delegation : : :, : : Democratic : deny : Department : : :, : : depends : derecognize : derive : described : describes : describing : design : despite : determine : dialogue : dichotomy : difference : : :, :, differences : different : :, :, : :, : :, :, : : : : : : : :, : : : : : : : dignity : Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review : : : :, : E et : : : E : :, Europe : early : : events : draws : driver's : : dual : : :, : : :, estado : essential :, fact : : established :, :, : : : : : : Alderson Reporting Company direct : : disagree : :, dispute : distinct : : distinction : : distinguish : distinguishes : divergent : divided : dividing : divisive : doctrine : : : : : document : : documents : : : effect :, either : : elect : elected : :,, elements : : emanate : emanates : : : emotional : enact : : : : : : enacting : enactment : DOJ : dollar : double : : endowed : : : endorse : enormous : : : enforcement : : : : : English : :,, :, : enjoyed : : : : : :, : entirely : :, : : : : : :,,, : :, : :, : : : entities : : : : entity : : : eschewed : ESQ :,, :,,, everybody : : evolved : exactly : : : : : example : : examples :, executive : :, exercise : : : : : exercises : exercising : exist : existed : : existence : existing :, exists : experience : experiment : : explain : : : : explained : explicit : : : explicitly : : extent : : : external :, extra : F facts : far : features : federal :, : : :, :, : :,, : : : : : :, : : : : :, : : : : : Felix : felt :, field : Fifth :, : follows : :, Foraker : force : : foreign : :,, forget : : : form : : : : former : forms : : forth :, four :, : : : fours : frame : framers : : : figure : find : : Frankfurter : : finish : : first : : : : : : :, : : : : :, :, : fit : five :,, : five­to­four : fix : flag : flexibility : Flores : Florida : Florida's : flow : fly : focus : :, follow : followed : :, frankly : free : : : fully : : :, fundamental : : fundamentally : : : future : : G G : : : : gee : general : :, : General's : generally : : generis : important : : :, : : :, : : include : inconsistency : : : : histrionic : hold :, holding : home : : : inconsistent : : : :,, : : : :, : : :,, : : : : : : : :, :, : : : : : : : : : : :, : : :, : :, : :, : : : : hot­button : House : houses : hypothetical : I idea :, identify : imagine : immunity : implication increasing : independence : : independent : : : : : Indian : : : :, :,, : : Indians : : : :, indisputably : indisputedly : infractions : inherency : inherent : : inquiry :, : insight : insofar : instance : : : : institute : insular : give : : Grafton : :, : :,,, :, : : : : given : : : : :, gives : go :, : : : : : : : : goes : : : : : : : : : grand : grant : : : : : : : Guam : : : : guard : guess : : : : : going : : guidance : gun : :, : : : H :, : :, : half : good : : : : : governed : : : government hamper : hand : : happen : : happened : : :, hard : : :, :, : Harris : : :, heads : :, : :, : : : :, : Heath : : :, :, : : : hear : : hearing : heart : : held : : helpful : : :, : interesting : : : interference : interim :, Interior : internal : : : international : :, interpreted : interpreting : intolerable : intricate : invariably : invention : inventive : : invested : invitation : : : invite : invited : : : invites : involve : ironic : Island : islands : : : :,, :,, : : : issue :, : : : :, :, : : : : : : :, : issued : : issues : : : Official ­ Subject to Final Review genius :, genuinely : getting : GINSBURG :,,, :, government's : helps : historic : :, historical : :, implications : : :,, : :, : governmental : :, : :, : : :, :,, : governors : history :, : : : : historically : : governor : : : : ground : Honor : : :, : IV : : Alderson Reporting Company : J January : jeopardy : : :, :, : :,, :, : : : : : :, : :, : : : : : :,,, : :, : :, : Judge : judges : judicial : jurisdiction : : : : jurisprudence : : : KAGAN :, : Justice : : :, :, : :, : justices :, :,, : :, : :,,, : : :,, :, : :,, :, : :, : :,, :,,, :,,, keep : : :, : :,, : :,,, :,, : : : : : : : : :, Kennedy : :,,, :, : : : Kagan's : : Official ­ Subject to Final Review :, : Laughter : :, : : :, :, : : :, : : Lara : large : larger : law :, : : : : : : : :, :, : :, : :, : :,,, :,, : :, : :, : laws :, : :, : : : : : : : : : :, : : : : : :, lead : leads : learned : led : left : legislate : legislation : :, legislative : :, : : : : : : legislators : : legislature : : :, : : : : legislatures : :, lesson : : let's : : : : : : level : libre : : :, light : limitation : limited : : limiting : : line : : : lines : liquor : listed : literally :, little : : local : :, long­term : : longer : look : : : : : : : : : looked : looking : : :, : : : : : :,, looks : : lose : lot : : lots : LUIS : M L : : kinds : kicked : kind : : know : : :, : : : : :, : :,,, : : :,, : key : : : :, :, : :, : :,,, :,,,, : :, : : : :, : :, : :, : :, :,,, :,,, : :, land : : :, : : :, Landau : : : :,,, : : : :, : :,,, :, :, :, : : :,, : : : :, : :,, : :, : : :,, :, : :,, :, : :, : :, : : : :,, : :,,, :, : : :, :, :, : :,,, :, : :, : :, :, :,, :,, :,, :,, : :, : : :, : :, :,, :, K language : : : Lanza :, :,, Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review M : majority : model : : : : making : :, : :, modeled : money : : O O : : obviously : : occurred : Marianas : multiple : municipalities : marking :, master : matter : : Monge : : : offences : offender : : : : offense :, :, : : :, : :, : municipalities' Otero : ought : : outset : overlap : override : overrule : : : overwhelming : P P : p.m : page : : Palau : parameters : part :, : : : : particular : : : : :, : particularly : : parts : pass : : passed : passes : path :, peace : pen : : : :,, : : permanently : permit : permits : : person : Petitioner :, :, : : : : Petitioner's : : : : Philippines : : : Phillipine : philosophers : phrase : place : : places : : please : : : : :, plenary : : : :,, : : : point : : : : : : : : : : :, : :, : : : : : : pointed : pointing : points : : : offenses : : :, offered : office : officer : officials : Okay :, : : : : : once : ones : : open : opinion : : : opposed : : opposite : opposition : : : : : : :, : municipality : : : : :, :, McGruder : mean :, : : : : N : : : :, N :, : : : : name : : : :,, : : meaning : narrow : narrower : nations : : : natural : nature : means : : necessarily : : : meaningful : : : : :, meant : : : measure : meat : meet : memo : mentions : menu : Micronesia : middle : mind : minutes : misplaced : missing : misunderstood : : need : : needed : never : : new : : NICOLE : : : nine : Ninth :, : Nobody's : non : Northern : : Northwest : noted : number : : : order : Ordinance options : : : :, oral : :,, people :, : : : : : : :, :, : : : :, : :, :, : : : : : : :, : : : : :, : ordinarily : organic : : : :, : : : : organization : Alderson Reporting Company police :, precedent : : Official ­ Subject to Final Review prosecutors : : :, : protections : provides : provision : : : : : : : : :,, :,,, : : :, :, quick : : :, quite : :,,, :, : quote : :, : : : :,, quoting : punish : : : political : :, : : : : : : : :, : : politics : portion : : : precisely : : predated : premise : President : : : :, : : : : Presumably position : : : :, :, : : : : : :,, : : :, :, possess : possesses : possible : :, possibly : power : presupposes : prevent : principal : : principle : : : : : principles : print : prior : : : prisoner : probably : problem : process : profound : : : : :, : : : proceeded : :, : :,,, : :,, prohibition : : :, : prohibits : prosecute : : : : : :, : : :, :,, : : :, : : :, :, :, : prosecuted : :,,, : : : prosecuting powers : : : practicalities : practically : pre­ : : prosecution :,, : : prosecutions : RR :raise : : raised :raises : : rationale :reach :read : :, reading :real : : : :really :: :: :: :reason :: :, reasons :REBUTTAL: :recall :recognition: pursuant : : : : : : : : : : :, : : :, : push : put : : : : : : putting : provisions : Public : : purposes : Puerto : : :,,, :,,,, :,, :, :,, : :,, : :, : :,, :,,, : : : :, :, : :, : :,,, :,,, : :, :, : : :, : : :, :, :,, : :, :,, :,, :,, : :, : :,,, : :, : : :,, :, : :,, : : :, : :,, :, : : :, : : questions : Q qua : question :,, : : : : : : recognize :::, : : : :, : : : : : : :, : :, recognized: :, : :, :,,, : : : : : : questioning : ::, : : ::recognizing: :record :, :reenacting ::, : refer :, Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review : Resident : : : reference : Resolution regardless : resonates : regularly : Regulation : resources : regulations : respect : :, : rejected : relationship :, : : : : : :, : : relationships : relevant : relinquished : : relinquishing : relinquishment : rely : remain : remained : remains : : respected : respond : Respondents :, :, : : : response : responses : : responsibility : restriction : rests : : :, Remember : result : removed : repeated : reply : : retain : report : : : :, revise :, revisit : revisited : revoked : reporting : reports : represents : Rican : :, : :, republic :, : : Republican : : : : : : : rogue : rule : : :,, : : : :, rules : : :, : ROBERTS : :,,, :,,, : : :,,, :,,, : : : : :, :, : : : : :, :, :,, : :, :,, :,, :, : :, : :,, :,, : :, S : : : : : : :, :, : :,, :,,, :, :, :,, :,,, : : : :, : : :,,, : : :, :, : : : S Rico's : : : : right : : request : require : : required : requirement : : requires : rescind : reserve : reserved : : :, :, : :, : : : :, : :,, : : : : :, : : Ricans : Rico : :, :,, : :,,, :,, :, :,, : : : :, : :,,, :,, : :, Rights :, rightly : Alderson Reporting Company : : SCALIA : : : : : :, :, : :,,, : :, :,,, Scalia's : score : seat :, second : :,, : : : : Secretary : Section : see :, : : : : : Saharsky : : :,, : :, : : : :, seen : :,, :, self­government : :, :, : : : :, : : : : : Samoa : : SANCHEZ : saw : saying :,, :, : : : : :, : : : :, : : : : : : : says : : :, : : : :, : : : : : : : selling : Senate :, sense : : : : separate : : : : : : : : series : : serious : set : : :, setting : settled : : sharing : sharp : Shell : : : : : : :,,, shocking : short : : shorthand : show : side : significant : : : : : similar : : : simple : simpler : simply : : sine : single : sit : situation : : : : six : slippery : : Solicitor : : solutions : : somebody : somewhat : : sorry : : : : Sotomayor Official ­ Subject to Final Review Sotomayor's : : sound : : : sounds : : : : source : : : :,,, : :, :, : : : : :, : :, : :,, : :, : : :, : :, sources : : :, : sovereign : : : : :, : : : : :,, : : :,,, :,, :, : : : : : :, : : : :, : :, : : : :,, :,, : : : :, :, : : :, :, : : :, :,, : :, : :, : : Spanish : : speaks : specific : : : specifically : : : split : splitting : : square : stand : standard : started : : : starting : : state : : : : subsequent : : substantially suddenly : suggest : : : : : :,,, substantial :,,, : :, : : : : :, : : :, :,,,, suggested : : :, suggesting : :,,, : : : : : :, : :, : suggestion : : : : : : : States' : status : : : : : : : : statute :, :, : : : : : statutory : stay : : step : stone :, story : suggests : sui : supporting : : : suppose : : : Supreme :, :,, sure : : : :, : : : surprising : sweeping : synthesize : : : :, straightforward system : : : : : : :, : : : : :, : : : :,, : stripped : stroke : structure : T :, take : : T sovereigns : :, : : : : : :, :,, : : :,,, :, : : :, : :, sovereignty : : : : :,,, :,, :, : : :, :,, :, : :,, : : : : : : : : subject : : : : : :, stated : statehood : : : statement : :, states :,, submitted : : : :,, : : :, : : : : :, : : :, : talking : : : : : : Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review talks : : tandem : targeted : task : tell :, : : : telling :, : tells : ten : terms : territorial : : : :, : territories : : : : : :, : : : : : : : : :, : : : :,, :, : : : territory : : : :,, : : : :, : : :, : : :, : :, : : :, : test : : :,, : testimony : : text :, Thank : : : :, : theory : thing : : : : : : : things : : :,,, : : : : : : : : : : : times : tired : today : : : : told : :, : : treaties : :, treaty :, : transformation : :, totally : touch : trace : tradition : traditionally : : treat : treated : think : : : : : : :, : : :, : : :, :, : :,, : :, :, : :, : :,, : :, :, : :, :, :, : : :, :, : Trias : tribal : :, : tribe : : : :,,, tribes : : : :, : :, :,, :,,, :, : :,, :, : : :, tricky : tried : tries : true : : :,, :, : :,,, : :, tremendous : : third : thought : : three : : :, time : :, : : : :, : : : : :, : : : : :, trying : : : : : :, : turn : : : : turned : turns : : two :, : : : : : : : : :, : : : :, : : : : : :,, : :, :,,, :,,, :, : :, : : :, : :, : :, :, : :, : : type : : unilaterally types : typical : typically :, : unincorporated UU.S.C :ultimate :, : ::,, :, : :: ::, : :, ultimately :UN : :, :,, : :unapprove:unbroken :unceremoniou... :uncontested:underscore:understand :: ::, : understood: :undoubtedly: : : : : union : unique : : : United :,, : : : : : : :, :,, : : : : : :, :,,,, :, : : : : : :, : : : unusual : upend : usage : use : : : usual : usually : usurpation : Vv : : : Unikowsky : :Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review : : th : :, : : : : s : : : s : : : :, : : : : : s : : . : Valle : : : : variety : versus : vested : vests : veto : : : vetoed : : view : : : : views : violation : Virgin : : : :,, :,, : virtue : voter : voters : voting : W Waller : : : Walter : want : : : :, : : :, : : :, : : : :,, wanted : :, : : : : War : Washington : :,, wasn't : way : : : :, : : ways : : We'll : : we're : : : : :, : :, we've : Wednesday : weighty : : : went : : : : weren't : Wheeler : :, : : :, : : : wide : widespread : wished : wishes : withdraw : wonder : : word : : : : : : words : : : : : : work : : working : works : : world : : wouldn't : :,, :,, write : : wrong : : wrote : x :, X Y Yankton : yeah : year : years : : : Z : : : : : : : : : : ­ : ­ : : s : s : : : :, : s : : : : : : : : : : :, s : : : : : : : : : s : : th :, : Alderson Reporting Company 