 IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XUNITED STATES, Petitioner ::v. : No. -SANDRA L. CRAFT :- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XWashington, D.C.Monday, January , The above-entitled matter came on for oralargument before the Supreme Court of the United States at: a.m.APPEARANCES:KENT L. JONES, ESQ., Assistant to the Solicitor General,Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on behalf ofthe Petitioner.JEFFREY S. SUTTON, ESQ., Columbus, Ohio; on behalf of theRespondent. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC C O N T E N T SORAL ARGUMENT OF KENT L. JONES, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioner ORAL ARGUMENT OFJEFFREY S. SUTTON, ESQ.On behalf of the Respondent REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OFKENT L. JONES, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioner PAGE th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC P R O C E E D I N G S(: a.m.)CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: We'll hear argumentnow in Number -, United States v. Sandra Craft.Mr. Jones.ORAL ARGUMENT OF KENT L. JONESON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERMR. JONES: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it pleasethe Court:The question in this case is whether the Federaltax lien that applies by operation of law to all propertyand rights to property of a delinquent taxpayer attachesto the interest of that taxpayer in a tenancy by theentirety. The taxpayer in this case was an attorney who,for years, failed to file a Federal income tax returnand accumulated a Federal tax obligation of approximatelyhalf a million dollars.At the time the taxes were assessed and thenotice of tax lien was filed, the taxpayer owned a realproperty in a joint tenancy by the entirety with his wife. He then conveyed his interest in that property to his wifefor $, and when his wife then sought to sell the propertythe tax lien appeared in the title record.QUESTION: Now, tell us about the fraudulentconveyance proceeding. Does the fraudulent conveyance th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC holding, or finding, make no difference one way or theother? If it was a fraudulent conveyance the husband hasthe property -- you can -- well, if it was a fraudulentconveyance, you can pursue the property, and if it wasn't,the lien is still there anyway under your theory. Is thatthe way it works?MR. JONES: I think that we would say that thelien, the question of the validity of the lien is thefirst question. If the lien is valid you don't need toaddress the fraudulent conveyance question. Indeed, wehaven't presented the fraudulent --QUESTION: Right.MR. JONES: -- conveyance question in this case.If the lien were not valid, it would still bepossible to go after property in certain circumstances ifthere had been a fraudulent conveyance, but on this recordwe're not challenging the determination that as a matterof State law there was not a fraudulent conveyance, exceptfor this fraudulent enhancement portion that the courtawarded.QUESTION: Mr. Jones, as part of the background,how did it come about that it's only the taxpayer who hasthe liability? Did she file separate returns, or was shean innocent spouse?MR. JONES: In this case, the taxpayer is the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC husband. The husband was an attorney, and he filed noreturn, and when -- there's two ways for this issue tocome up. Either spouse may file either no return, or fileonly a separate return. It's only when they file a jointreturn that they are jointly and severally liable for thetax obligation, so if, as in this case, the taxpayersimply files no return at all, then the obligation isexclusively that -- the tax obligation is that of thenonfiler, in this case the husband.Indeed, Judge Ryan pointed out in his separateopinion that the decision of this Court, of the court ofappeals is very amenable to abuse, because on this theoryboth spouses can earn income, neither of them can file areturn, or they can both file a separate return, and thenthey can put all of their real and personal property in a tenancy by the entirety, including stocks and bonds inStates like Michigan and Maryland, and claim a completeexemption of all of their property from Federal taxobligations.Now, in --QUESTION: -- some penalties for failing to filea return?MR. JONES: There are some penalties, but thepenalties, like taxes, have to be enforced against theproperty of the taxpayer, and if the taxpayer is allowed th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC to exempt all of its property in this fashion, thenthere's literally no way that the taxes can be enforcedthrough civil procedures.QUESTION: What about criminal procedures? Arethere any criminal procedures for --MR. JONES: I --QUESTION: -- failure, continued failure tofile --MR. JONES: Of course, if you file a return,then you're not exposing yourself to any criminalobligations, and if you don't file a return, it wouldbe -- I'm not familiar with a statute that makes that acrime by itself. Now, it may be that it's a crime inconnection with some intent to conceal, but just the factthat you didn't file -- I'm not -- frankly, I'm not --even though I come before the Court on tax cases, I'm notan expert on criminal tax matters, but it's my impressionthat that would not by itself be a crime.Now, the Federal tax --QUESTION: We'd better not let the word get out. I thought that it was a crime, but I'll check.(Laughter.)MR. JONES: All right, well, I stand --QUESTION: We'll keep it just among ourselves.MR. JONES: I will defer all questions on title th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC to Justice Kennedy. I'm simply not --QUESTION: Do we know as a matter of fact whather situation was? Did she not file also? Did she file aseparate return?MR. JONES: I don't know whether she had anyincome of her own. I don't know whether she was requiredto, whether she did file a return -- this case does notinvolve this -- the wife's taxes. It involves the half-million dollars of taxes of the husband. QUESTION: Yes, I know. I was just curious howthat came about.MR. JONES: I don't believe the record reflects.Now, the comprehensive text of the Federal taxlien reaches not only all property of the taxpayer but allrights to property of the taxpayer, and this Court hasconsistently held that this broad text shows a plainintent to reach every type of interest that a taxpayermight have in property, and two terms ago in the Drye casethe Court summarized these holdings and said that theFederal tax lien reaches every species of valuable,legally protected right or interest of the taxpayer, andthe simple question that we have before us today iswhether a taxpayer who has an interest in a tenancy by theentirety has any valuable legally protected interest inthe property. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: Well, of course, isn't the issuewhether the taxpayer has a legal interest in the property? Isn't that the issue?MR. JONES: That is the underlying issue in thiscase.QUESTION: And the other side says no, there'sthis mythical entity called the marriage, or somethinglike that, is the owner.MR. JONES: Well, it's a real entity. There isreally a marriage. It's just that the property interestsare, in fact, owned by the individual spouses, as I canexplain by going through what rights a tenant by theentirety has under the applicable law in this case, whichis Michigan law. A --QUESTION: But are any of those rights legalrights owned by the taxpayer.MR. JONES: Yes.QUESTION: That's the basic question.MR. JONES: Yes, and indeed, in fact, thesupreme court in Michigan has so held.Let me just describe these rights that thetaxpayer has. The individual owner of the -- each spousein a tenancy by the entirety has the right to occupy anduse the premises, has the right, with the consent of theother spouse, to mortgage or sell it, and under section -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: Wait, wait. Strike that one. Imean, that's -- the marriage can sell it. I mean, withthe consent of the other one is just to say --MR. JONES: This is --QUESTION: -- tenancy by the entirety. It's themarriage that sells it.MR. JONES: That is exactly the interest thatthe taxpayer had in the Rodgers case in a homesteadestate. He could not sell his properties separately fromthat of his spouse. He could only mortgage or sell itwith the right, with the concurrence of the spouse, andwhat the Court held in Rodgers --QUESTION: But he had a legal interest in theproperty.MR. JONES: Yes, he did.QUESTION: He did.MR. JONES: Yes, and if I might go on, there aremore interests involved. I mean, even if you wanted tostop there, we can't stop there, because the taxpayer infact has greater interests than the ones we've alreadydescribed.Under section . of the Michigan Code, whichis quoted at page of the joint appendix and page ofour reply brief, each spouse in -- since each spousein Michigan has had the right to equal portion of the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC income from the property, that is, the interest, thedividends, the rents, to the profits, and is entitled tohalf of the proceeds on the sale of the property. Eachspouse under Michigan law is entitled to half of theproperty on divorce, and has a right of survivorship thatgives him the fee simple, absolute --QUESTION: Presumably the Government could get alien on any of those things if they ever came into being.MR. JONES: They are in being, and that's whatthe supreme court of Michigan pointed out in Dow v. State. The court held that these significant interests inproperty possessed by each spouse are property forpurposes of the constitutional Due Process Clause, andthat each spouse must separately be given notice of anyaction affecting their significant property interests.QUESTION: Given notice by whom?MR. JONES: Of any action that might be broughtwith respect to the property. In other words, under theDue Process Clause you have to have notice and anopportunity to be heard if there's property affected, andwhat the court said is that these significant -- I'mquoting. These significant interests in property of eachspouse entitle each of them to separate notice, becausethey have separate rights.Now -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: How did that case come up? I mean,was somebody suing the tenants by the entirety, or --MR. JONES: My recollection is that it was aforeclosure-type case.Now, the pecuniary right of each spouse to halfthe income and half of the proceeds on the sale is anordinary kind of right to money. It is aquintessential --QUESTION: May I just interrupt you once more? You, in describing the case, said that each of them wasentitled to notice because each of them had a separateright in the property. Is that what the State courtsaid --MR. JONES: Yes.QUESTION: -- or is that your sort ofinterpretation?MR. JONES: It said that -- the words -- well, Idon't have the text in front of me. It said theseparate --QUESTION: It makes a big difference. They'reeach entitled to notice --MR. JONES: Each spouse --QUESTION: -- which is -- because each had aseparate right --MR. JONES: It says each spouse is entitled to th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC separate notice --QUESTION: Right.MR. JONES: -- because they have a significantinterest in the property, and --QUESTION: Mr. Jones, you're not asserting thatthe Government's lien gives it any greater right than hehas, so the recitation that you had, you're not sayingthat the Government lien means that they could preempt herright, are you?MR. JONES: No. We're saying that we have thoserights. In fact, in this case that is the issue. Therewas the sale. There was a consensual sale of theproperty. Half of the proceeds were placed in escrow. Half were given to the wife as her undisputed -percentshare, half were placed in escrow pending determination ofthe validity of the lien. That's what this case is. It'sthat --QUESTION: Would the case be any different ifthat transaction you just referred to hadn't taken place? Would the Government's case be weaker?MR. JONES: The Government's case would besignificantly different if the sale had not occurred. Then we would presumably be waiting to see what happened,or we would under Rodgers be attempting to bring aforeclosure case. We haven't attempted to do that here th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC because we didn't need to do it and, in fact, we rarelydo, and while I'm on the foreclosure issue, let me pointout that Rodgers held that a joint interest can beforeclosed notwithstanding that neither spouse bythemselves force the sale of it.What the Court explained was that Congressspecifically provided in of the code that theforeclosure applies to the entire property, and that inthat sale the rights of the innocent spouse are protectedand, indeed, the court, the district court has discretionnot even to order a foreclosure if it so chooses.QUESTION: But --QUESTION: Well, let's assume you do foreclosebecause we find that, indeed, the husband has a propertyinterest in the tenancy by the entirety, so you foreclose.Now, I guess some of his interest you've justpointed out is a right to half of the income from theproperty, but surely his most significant interest is thathe is entitled to half of the whole property if themarriage dissolves, right?MR. JONES: Or of it's sold, and he's entitledto all of it if he's the survivor.QUESTION: Right. These are all contingencies,okay. How do you -- you foreclose -- how do we valuethese contingencies? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. JONES: This --QUESTION: What do we -- we have people come inand say how stable the marriage is, or what?MR. JONES: This Court discussed that exact,what the Court called the practical reality in the Rodgerscase, and gave a detailed example that I think took threeor four pages of the Court's opinion in Rodgers,explaining how you would value the respective interests ofthe parties.Let me also suggest to the Court that there is avery thorough and thoughtful decision of the districtcourt in New Jersey in United States v. Jones in thatdiscusses the circumstances when discretion would not beexercised to allow foreclosure of tenancy-by-the-entiretyproperty, and the Court concluded that there werecircumstances which that case was one, where instead offoreclosing on the property, the property rights of -- theUnited States would simply be put in the position ofholding the right of survivorship of the delinquentspouse, and in addition, the right of that spouse to halfof the rents would be recognized immediately on behalf ofthe United States.The foreclosure remedy, I've heard casesdescribe it as a drastic remedy. Well, I don't know ifit's drastic, but it's a remedy that doesn't have to be th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC exercised, and that there are cases that explaincircumstances when it's appropriate in the court's viewnot to do so.QUESTION: But in your view, you always valuethe taxpayer's interest at percent?MR. JONES: No. I think in the Rodgers -- well,if the property's been sold, yes. If the property hasn'tbeen sold, and we're talking about in a foreclosurecontext, I believe the Rodgers court goes through theexample of the varying life expectancies of the twotenants, and which one -- and I believe what the Court inRodgers said was that each of them should be treated as ifthey have a life estate plus a right of survivorship, andthe Court explains how that could well -- I think in thefacts of Rodgers resulted in only percent of theproceeds being applied to the husband's interest and percent being retained on behalf of the spouse, but --QUESTION: But there must be a foreclosure tothat extent?MR. JONES: There -- that was a -- I believethose were hypothetical facts that the Court discussed inRodgers.QUESTION: Mr. Jones, during the continuance ofthe marriage can either spouse force a sale?MR. JONES: No, and that was the point made in th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Rodgers also, that in any kind of joint tenancy -- by theway, I should emphasize --QUESTION: But I thought joint -- I may be wrongin this. I thought a joint tenancy could be convertedinto a common tenancy by the action of one --MR. JONES: I misspoke. It's not in every jointtenancy. It is a common feature of joint tenancies thatthey can't be forcibly sold by one and, indeed --QUESTION: During the continuance of the jointtenancy.MR. JONES: Correct, and that that was the casein Rodgers --QUESTION: Okay.MR. JONES: -- where the homestead right couldnot be --QUESTION: But I take it from your earlieranswer that there is, in tenancies by the entirety thereis no such legal means of converting that tenancy into atenancy in common which then can either be the subject ofa forced sale or petition, is that correct?MR. JONES: I believe that's correct, and Ibelieve it was also true in Rodgers of the homesteadestate, which is a common -- which is also a commonestate.In fact, in this Court's opinion in Jacobs in th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , where the Court said that we were not -- the Federaltax laws were not bound by the ancient fictions oftenancies by the entirety, the Court pointed out that ajoint tenancy and a tenancy by the entirety create thesame rights. The only difference is the fiction of themarital unit, and the Court held in the Jacobs case, as ithad held years earlier in the Tyler case, that thatfeudal fiction or ancient fiction did not bind the taxprovisions, that the tax provisions were to be implied inlight of the actual rights of the tenants and not basedupon the artificial rules of State law, and then in Irvineand in Drye just two terms ago this Court, in interpretingthe term, property, and rights to property and Federal taxlegislation and in the lien statute said that we look tothe realities of the taxpayer's right, and we're notstruck blind by legal fictions of artificial --QUESTION: But the realities of taxpayer rightsdepend on State law, don't they?MR. JONES: The realities of the taxpayer'sright are drawn from State law, but we're not supposedto -- I mean, in the words of the Court, let theartificial rules of State law blind us to the realities ofthose rights, and let me give you --QUESTION: Well now, what's the difference, doyou think, between the artificial rules and the realities? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. JONES: Well, this Court has said thatdifference can be seen in tenancies by the entirety, thatthe realities are that the tenants -- I mean, it is afiction. The respondent admits it's a fiction. Every --QUESTION: Well --MR. JONES: The word fiction is what is impliedhere.QUESTION: You say it's a fiction. What do youmean by it?MR. JONES: What is a fiction is the idea thatneither spouse actually owns an interest in this property. That's the fiction.QUESTION: So is a corporation a fiction, but wedon't tax the shareholders for income of the corporation. It's a fiction acknowledged at law and --MR. JONES: It's a legal entity. It has anexistence. The marital unit is the fiction.QUESTION: So is the marriage --MR. JONES: The marriage --QUESTION: -- for purposes of the tenancy by theentirety.MR. JONES: The marriage is the fact. What'sthe fiction is that these spouses don't own anything. Under State law they do own something. They own somethingsignificant, as the supreme court of Michigan has said, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC and let me give you an example of how courts have beenblinded by this fiction.The line of cases that respondent relies onbegins with the Eighth Circuit decision of the UnitedStates v. Hutcherson in . In that case, which startedus down this path, the court made what are now clearly, Ithink, two errors under this Court's precedents. Thefirst error that the court made was to say that we own --that this question about what's property or a right toproperty is solely a question of State law.Well, we know that what's a question of Statelaw is what are the interests created, but whether it'sproperty or right to property is a question of Federallaw. The Court made that clear in ' in Bess, emphasizedit again in National Bank of Commerce, and held itspecifically, what, two terms ago.Now, the other thing that Hutcherson got wrongright from the beginning was this idea that you -- thatthe fiction of State law is controlling, and I'm -- whatthe court said is, the interest of a tenant by theentirety in the property cannot be subject to the Federallien because, in the words of the court, that interest islike a rainbow in the sky, or like the morning fog risingacross the valley.Well, once we get past the metaphorical fog, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC there is indisputably actual value at the end of thisfictional rainbow. It is -- these people have pecuniaryrights, the rights to receive money, and in this case thetenant had a right to receive half the proceeds of thesale, and the United States is attaching that right toreceive money just like it would any other right toreceive money.QUESTION: These are all contingent rights. Would the Government attach or foreclose a piece of realestate that had been bequeathed to the taxpayer's brotherand which would eventually come to the taxpayer,perhaps --MR. JONES: No.QUESTION: -- depending upon what contingenciesoccurred?MR. JONES: And the Court made that point inDrye. It made the difference between what is a legallyprotected right and what is a -- what was the word youwere using?QUESTION: Contingent.MR. JONES: No, not a contingency.QUESTION: A contingency.MR. JONES: It was --QUESTION: Expectancy.MR. JONES: An expectancy, thank you. An th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC expectancy is something that is not a legally protectedright. The expectancy that was described in Drye was thehope that the will on which you're a beneficiary won't bechanged before the decedent dies.You have no right that the decedent won't changethe will. That's just an expectancy. But once thedecedent died, the right, the legally protected right thatwas at issue in Drye was the irrevocable right to inheritor to disclaim.Now, once this tenancy has been created, thesetenants have these vested rights. Now, their rights maybe contingent in terms of events happening in the future,but it's nothing more -- nothing is more common than tosay that a contingent right is a property interest.QUESTION: Well --QUESTION: Certainly the community propertyStates, the concept of a marital community has somesignificance, I think. It isn't just a rainbow in thesky. That doesn't mean that you don't look at what rightsthe individual members of the community may have, but whatyou're saying is --MR. JONES: Well --QUESTION: Go ahead.MR. JONES: If I might, in a case called UnitedStates v. Mitchell, involving the community property right th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC of a spouse to disclaim her interest in the income of herspouse, this Court said that the disclaimer, thisretroactive disclaimer, this fiction of State law wouldnot be recognized and would not upset the application ofFederal tax principles.QUESTION: But it was retroactive.MR. JONES: It was a fiction.QUESTION: Before the disclaimer occurredthere's no doubt who was entitled to the money. She was,and this was more than a fiction. It was undoing aproperty right that the State recognized until thedisclaimer occurred.MR. JONES: Well, and indeed the Staterecognizes these property rights. The State says there'ssignificant interest in property, and it isn't silly justfor me to stand here and say it's a fiction. It is afiction. This Court has said it's a fiction. In --QUESTION: Mr. Jones, would you comment on oneaspect of the case that troubles me? Let's assume -- Ithink there are two court of appeals decisions out therethat are squarely on point and against you, and you sayare incorrectly decided.MR. JONES: Yes.QUESTION: Let's assume they are incorrectlydecided, but they've been the only guidance for the tax th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC bar for or years, and is there other relianceinterests that the tax bar can say, well, we alwaysthought that, given those cases that Congress had notsought to overrule, we have a right to follow them?MR. JONES: Well, the tax bar is not a party tothis case, and -- but that's --QUESTION: No, but we have to be concernedabout --MR. JONES: Okay, well, that's --QUESTION: -- the community's reliance ondecisions that have been given by the Federal courts.MR. JONES: The answer -- I believe the answerto your question is no, that there is no embedded relianceon this principle because, as we pointed out in our brief,even in Michigan there is an express caution given by theState bar to title examiners saying that, in light of the enactment of this statute that gives each spouse anequal right to all of the income and profits from theproperty, that the State bar advised title examiners thatthey could not give an opinion that the interest of anindividual spouse was not subject to the lien.Moreover, in , I believe it was, this Courthad a discussion about the status of tenancy by theentirety under the Federal lien, and the majority opinionin a footnote questioned these older cases, so I do not th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC think that a title examiner, especially in Michigan, wouldbe able to say that he had upset settled expectations.QUESTION: So this case involves only Michigan,and if you have States that do not provide that the --each spouse has an interest in the income, it might be adifferent answer.MR. JONES: There is, indeed, a narrow basisthat you just described for resolving this case, and itwould be an appropriate way to resolve the case because wehave the fund -- we have here the voluntary -- the sale,with the proceeds available for distribution, so we don'thave to reach the broader question of whether theexistence of the right of survivorship, which is anundisputed personal interest, is sufficient for the liento attach and, a la Rodgers, be subject to a foreclosureaction. It would -- and --QUESTION: I must say, when you get to thesurvivorship, that's there I have real problems with yourcase. I could just -- you answered my earlierhypothetical by just saying, well, you know, there's acontingency that the will might be changed. Well, let'sassume it's not a will. Let's assume it's an irrevocabletrust, under which you have a contingent future interest. Would you really say that the Government can move againstthe entire corpus of the trust just because there's a th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC contingent future interest on the part of a defaultingtaxpayer?MR. JONES: The Government's lien attaches tothe interests of the contingent remaindermen, and thereare cases on that very point. I am not familiar with theproblem I think you're describing which is, well, can youthen foreclose on the trust, and how would we value --QUESTION: Well, that's how the statute reads. You can assert the lien on any property in which thetaxpayer has an interest.MR. JONES: That's correct.QUESTION: And you're saying the taxpayer has aninterest --MR. JONES: Yes.QUESTION: -- in this trust --MR. JONES: Yes.QUESTION: -- in which he has a futurecontingency.MR. JONES: That's correct.QUESTION: I mean, that's a -- I --MR. JONES: That's correct, but also thatsection reserves the right of a district court not toaward foreclosure and, of course, foreclosure requires theGovernment to do something.QUESTION: We hope you get a tenderhearted th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC district judge. I don't think that that's --MR. JONES: Well, the United States, so far as Iknow this controversy that you're concerned about has notbeen presented in an actual case, so I'm not sure thatit's a -- I mean, it's a theoretical issue that I don'tbelieve has been confronted, but what has been confrontedis, does the lien attach to contingent remainders, andthat's In re -- well, there's a lot of In re's. I thinkit's Rosenberg's Will is the leading case on this. Wecited it in a footnote, and it explains that the Federaltax lien applies to all property and rights to property.QUESTION: Well then, how -- do you then valuethe contingent remainder?MR. JONES: Well, as I was saying, I don't knowof a case where a foreclosure has been sought on acontingent remainder. What's probably the more likelyresult, because it's the more economical result, is towait for the contingency to occur, and that's --QUESTION: And the case you're talking aboutwhere a lien was asserted against the contingentremainder, what was it asserted against, after theremainder had no longer been contingent?MR. JONES: I would -- I'm -- to be honest, Iwould be guessing, but my guess is --QUESTION: Okay. I mean, that's a different th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC question.MR. JONES: Well, the --QUESTION: I want a case in which, on the basisthat the taxpayer had an interest --MR. JONES: Right.QUESTION: -- had a purely contingent interestin some corpus. The Federal Government was enabled toassert a lien against the entire corpus. That seems to meextravagant.MR. JONES: Well, as you use the wordcontingency, that would include Rodgers, because that wasa case where there was -- a right of survivorship was thevalued interest, but there's also the Bank One case,Spendthrift Trust, the right of a person to obtain incomefrom a Spendthrift Trust is subject to the Federal lien. Any kind of right, legally protected, valuable interesthas been subjected to the Federal lien, and what the --this case reduces to is the idea that simply by, that eventhough they've, the State recognizes that there arevaluable, legally protected interests in each spouse, thatby calling it a -- a something else, that the lienwouldn't apply, and that's exactly what the Courtindicated in Drye shouldn't happen, that the Courtindicated that the mere fact that the State doesn'tcharacterize this valuable, legally protected right as th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC property doesn't prevent the Federal lien from attaching.I would like to reserve my time for rebuttal.QUESTION: Very well, Mr. Jones.Mr. Sutton, we'll hear from you.ORAL ARGUMENT OF JEFFREY S. SUTTONON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTMR. SUTTON: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice, andmay it please the Court:There are some serious misunderstandings aboutthe meaning of Michigan law which go to the heart of theproper resolution of this case under Federal law. Firstof all, the Government has relied very heavily on a Michigan statute that says, spouses in a tenancy by theentirety have equal rights to rent and income and toprofits. That's section of the statute that I justquoted.If you look at page of that statute in theSixth Circuit appendix, regrettably not in your appendix,you'll see that the second section of that statute saysthat only applies to tenancies by the entirety createdafter . This tenancy was created in . Thatstatute is utterly irrelevant. It in all events wasdesigned primarily just to deal with what happens when thetenancy ends, that is, when there's a divorce, just tomake sure that both spouses have a right to the property. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC A second misunderstanding, the Government saysthat the rights to proceeds, once you have proceeds as aspouse, that somehow that means the tenancy is over andthe creditors, Federal, State, city, private, can get atit. That's wrong. Under Michigan law, Muskegon Lumber,, Michigan supreme court case, says that it continuesas a tenancy in the entirety. Why? Because most peoplesell their house to buy another. You wouldn't destroyit --QUESTION: Well, we're not used to resolvingquestions of State law here. If you say the State law ofMichigan is one thing and the Government says the Statelaw of Michigan is the other, it's difficult for us to goin and referee the thing. What is the strongest Michigancase for your point of view?MR. SUTTON: Your Honor, , Vinton v. Beamer,going forward to Sanford, going to Budwit v. Herr -- thoseare, you know, separated by or years each -- everysingle one of them makes clear that with respect to thespecific belonging-to language in this statute there is nointerest that belongs to one spouse or another. They'reindivisible interests. There's a unity of title and,critically, if that unity of title is broken, Michigan lawsays under Budwit v. Herr, a Michigan supreme courtdecision, the tenancy is destroyed. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: And you say the statute does notaffect this case at all?MR. SUTTON: It's irrelevant, Your Honor. Byits terms it only applies to tenancies that are createdafter . That's section . It's in the act. That'snot legislative history. That's in the act.QUESTION: Mr. Sutton, how does it differ fromother cases where under State law a predator can't touchthe thing, like a Spendthrift Trust, or like what wasinvolved in Drye? Even though not a single predator inthat State could touch that inheritance, the Federaltaxing authorities could, so there are many situationswhere the property is exempt from reach, even where theState doesn't call it property, calls it something else,but the elements of what the person had leads the Federalauthorities to say this is the property of so-and-so, asin the Spendthrift Trust, as in the case of thedisclaiming heir in Drye, so why is this any different?MR. SUTTON: This is not a disclaimer orexemption case for this basic reason. We're not relyingon the results under Michigan law. We're relying on therationale under Michigan law for the exemption. Therationale under Michigan law is that neither spouse ownsan independent interest in any respect. Not even thesurvivorship right under Sanford is considered an th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC independent interest.QUESTION: Why was that different from a Statelaw that said Mr. Drye never had anything, we assume underour State's law that he predeceased his mother?MR. SUTTON: Your Honor, under Arkansas law inDrye, the opinion notes that he did have a right toalienate that interest once his wife died. That's exactlywhat -- that was the point of the decision. For months,he had a right of control over the property and it may behelpful -- I want to make sure I'm answering yourquestion -- to think about these interests in presentterms and future terms, and if you talk about presentinterest, I think the way Drye talks about it is, you haveto have a present interest of pecuniary value over whichthe taxpayer has exclusive dominion. That is not true ina tenancy by the entirety. The closest you can come tofinding something over which the individual taxpayer mighthave dominion of control are the future interests, theright to proceeds, the right -- survivorship rights if yououtlive your spouse.QUESTION: Could the Congress with ease enact astatutory amendment to make tenants by the entiretysubject to liens?MR. SUTTON: Absolutely, Your Honor. I wouldsubmit that that's one of the strongest points supporting th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Mrs. Craft's position. For years --QUESTION: Well, I mean, if you were a Senatorfrom Michigan wouldn't you say, well, you're taxingproperty that doesn't belong to the taxpayer, this isimproper as a matter of law?MR. SUTTON: That's exactly what Tylerrecognized, the or so U.S. Supreme Court decisionthat yes, these are fictions under State law but, underthe Supremacy Clause, the Federal Government is entitledto disregard them if it wishes and, notably in the estatetax setting, that's an estate tax case, the Court -- inthat law, Congress specifically said tenancies by theentirety are covered by the estate tax. Indeed, page of Tyler says, but for the specification of tenancies bythe entirety by terms, the estate tax would not coverthose interests.QUESTION: Well, our --MR. SUTTON: That's our case. That's this case.QUESTION: Our universe here is that the Statedefines what's property and the Federal Government defineswhat property can be liened.MR. SUTTON: Yes, Your Honor.QUESTION: That doesn't quite work, because oneof the sticks in the property definition is the right tobe liened, and so we're compromising that dichotomy even th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC by stating it, and it seems to me that all the Governmentis doing here is saying, we're saying what property can beliened, we're entitled to define that one stick in thebundle.MR. SUTTON: I'm not relying, Your Honor, onwhat's lienable and what's not. Well, I am in terms ofthe common law background. That's highly relevant that in no one would have thought this was a lienableproperty interest, but when it comes to the presentMichigan law, I'm not relying on whether it's lienableunder Michigan law. I'm relying on why that's true, therationale for why it's not lienable.You can't lien -- maybe this is the better wayto put it. You can't lien an innocent property owner'sproperty. If everything they're saying is true about thissomehow belonging to Don Craft, it is most assuredly alsotrue that it belonged to Sandy Craft, and JusticeGinsburg, she did file her tax returns, independent taxreturns. She paid her taxes, and there's no more rightfor the Federal Government to put that lien on yourproperty or mine, that it was --QUESTION: Well, but if you're right about that,Mr. Sutton, then your statement that Congress could easilyamend the statute to collect in this situation probablyisn't correct. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. SUTTON: Well, Your Honor, I did not mean tosay -- I did say easily, and I misspoke, and I'm glad tohave an opportunity to correct.I think it would be very difficult, because ofthe fact that under Michigan law the property ownershipinterest might create a situation where the minute youforeclosed, great, you got $, for Don's interest inthe property. Every dollar they took belongs to Sandy, soit's -- it is a difficult area to regulate. It would bea -- and -- but that's again exactly why, in gift tax,estate tax, fair debt collection -- that's the Federalfraudulent conveyance law, bankruptcy, every one of theseareas not only mentions the tenancy specifically, but itthen goes on to do what Justice Kennedy and Mr. ChiefJustice Rehnquist's questions indicate. You've got to bevery specific about how in the world you value theseinterests, and what you decide to do once you've decidedto regulate them.QUESTION: Mr. Sutton, is it true that anyconventional property interest in Michigan can be held inthe entirety form?MR. SUTTON: No, Your Honor. Personalproperty -- it does not apply to personal property. Theonly exceptions are proceeds from real estate, the exampleI gave when you sell the house. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: Does --QUESTION: What about -- bank accounts can'tbe --MR. SUTTON: No, Your Honor.QUESTION: And shares can't be --MR. SUTTON: No, Your Honor. No.QUESTION: What about the income from the realestate? Is it your position that before this statute waspassed even the income from the real estate was held --MR. SUTTON: Absolutely, and that's --QUESTION: -- in tenancy by the entirety?MR. SUTTON: Let me give you -- S&B Trust, it'sone of the cases we've cited, says that very point, andthat makes sense. It's still property that they -- itcame from their joint marital asset, and they use ittogether.property?I want to go --QUESTION: How does it differ from communityMR. SUTTON: Community property has severaldifferences. It's much more like a joint tenancy. Firstof all, you can petition, which incidentally is exactlywhat the effect of this statute is, to by law petitiontheir interests. Secondly, you have shares in theproperty, and this is exactly like Rodgers and National th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Bank of Commerce. There were divisible shares that couldbe levied.QUESTION: I thought the community property isowned by the community, which is a separate entity.MR. SUTTON: No, Your Honor.QUESTION: Community property is not owned by acommunity which is a separate entity?MR. SUTTON: No. It really works a lot like thehomestead. I want to be clear here. It's true that the --in one sense the home in a community property State or ahomestead State is still one where they both haveinterests as to all the property, so in that respectyou're right, they still have joint interests. But thecritical legal distinction respecting the th Century allthe way to this century is that in one setting you haddivisible shares, and that's why one spouse in a homeState setting, community property setting, couldunilaterally incumber or destroy the tenancy.QUESTION: I'm not sure you can generalize as tocommunity property. I think the law varied in -- among --between the community property States. Some would say onething, some would say the other.MR. SUTTON: Your Honor, you're right, and ifI --QUESTION: The hornbook that we looked up just th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC says that community property can be severed only with theconsent of both spouses in the event of divorce, or in theevent of death of one of the spouses. It's a book calledReal Property, by Bernhardt and Burkhardt.MR. SUTTON: Well --QUESTION: Again, I don't know that that'sauthoritative, or maybe we made a mistake, but itcertainly was my impression that community property isowned by a community, which is a different legal entity,and I also thought that community property couldn't beseparate without the consent of the spouse.MR. SUTTON: Well, that -- Your Honor --QUESTION: Is that wrong?MR. SUTTON: -- if -- let's assume for the sakeof argument, and I'm not -- let's assume it's true, yousaid it's true, that community property States are justlike tenancy-in-the-entirety States. That's fine by us.QUESTION: Well, I know, but all it means is --MR. SUTTON: The exact same argument applies.QUESTION: -- that if you're right, that inprobably a third or more of the country, suddenly the IRScan't assert any liens, and it's a little tough to believethat Congress would have thought that that's what it wasdoing with this statute.MR. SUTTON: Oh, Your Honor, I respectfully th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC disagree. In the very -- the backyard of Congress theyare saying tenancies by the entirety are exempt. I mean,in the District of Columbia, which Congress has sovereignprerogatives over, they've said from the beginning that wefavor these marital community property interests overthose of creditors.QUESTION: Mr. Sutton --QUESTION: Yes, that may be, but why -- I mean,here, a lot of property in this country is owned bycommunities, i.e., the husband and wife together, and Iimagine that people are quite free to take their realproperty in the form of tenancy by the entirety.All right, now here the property interest isdefinite. There's no doubt that the husband is entitledto a lot of money, and there's nothing imprecise about it,nor is there really anything speculative about it, unlessyou go and divide it into a present and future. All thosedivisions you've made are purely legal ways of looking atwhat in reality is an absolutely precise and valuableproperty interest owned by the husband.All right, now why should I accept aninterpretation that's going to exempt vast amounts ofproperty from this statute --MR. SUTTON: A couple of thoughts, Your Honor.QUESTION: -- under those circumstances? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. SUTTON: This is not a community propertycase, and I think it would be dangerous for me to --QUESTION: But I'd like to know what theimplications are --MR. SUTTON: If --QUESTION: -- because it's one thing if we'redeciding a case -- yes.MR. SUTTON: If you find, in each of the Statesthat you're concerned about, the interests are definedjust as they are in Michigan, which is to say, it's anindivisible interest, no shares, it follows just from whatyou've said in Rodgers and National Bank of Commerce thatyou can't lien the property, and what you've got to do iswait for a survivorship interest, wait for a sale,destruction of the tenancy.But if there's a problem here, Your Honor,Congress has known about it. This has been true for years.QUESTION: Mr. Sutton, how many States are therethat have tenancies by the entireties?MR. SUTTON: that have them in thetraditional way we're talking about, where it's anindivisibility of title, plus the District of Columbia.QUESTION: And some of them, at least accordingto a case that both of you cited, do provide tenancy. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Tenancies by the entirety can hold business assets,personal property, even money may be held in some States,so if your theory holds, then a couple could insulateeverything that they have simply by holding it all --MR. SUTTON: Well, to the extent Congress isworried about that, it's surprising in that theydidn't amend the statutes, even more surprising --QUESTION: Well, didn't this Court comment onthat in the Rodgers decision by saying that the fact thatCongress didn't do something -- you can't infer much fromnot doing, according to this Court. Maybe the Senaterejected the clarification that the House sought, notbecause it disagreed with it, but more likely because itfound it superfluous.MR. SUTTON: The history is relevant, Iwould think all would agree, when it comes to the notionthat somehow this is a great tax-avoidance problem. Congress at a minimum was told about this issue anddecided not specifically to do anything about it. Whetherthe law was changed or not --QUESTION: And this Court commented on it, thatmaybe Congress didn't do anything because it thought thatthe -- this --MR. SUTTON: Your Honor, by -- I mean --well, by the present, we've got seven courts of appeals. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Every court of appeal that's looked at the issue has saidthe tax lien does not apply when just one spouse has a taxdebt. In , critically --QUESTION: In this particular case, wasn't theSixth Circuit saying, well, maybe there are good argumentson both sides, but we've got that old precedent that wehave to follow. Wasn't that the background of this case?MR. SUTTON: I'm not sure what the Sixth Circuithad in mind, but it certainly followed its precedent,didn't think Drye, Irvine had changed the lawnecessarily --QUESTION: Well, it couldn't have thought aboutDrye the first time around, because Drye wasn't there.MR. SUTTON: No, but the second time it did.QUESTION: They had already made the decision. Then there was a big discussion about law of the case andlaw of the circuit, so I don't think that they ever hadthis case with Drye squarely in front of them, becausethey decided the basic case without Drye and later theywere relying on law of the case, law --MR. SUTTON: Well, I certainly don't know whyeach court of appeals has done what it did, including theSixth Circuit, but the fact is, they've all done the samething.I think it's also notable to the extent there's th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC a tax avoidance concern lurking here, why is it in ,when Congress passed the Fair Debt Collection Act --that's the Federal fraudulent conveyance statute -- whydid it specifically exempt tenancy by the entiretyproperty? Under that law today you could do exactly whathappened in this case and the Federal Government wouldhave nothing to say about it.QUESTION: I suppose, if you follow the -- yourrationale to its furthest extent in a State such as theone Justice Ginsburg referred to in which business assetscan be held in tenancy by the entirety, a husband and wifecould hold a -- have a closely held corporation by theentirety and, on your theory, they wouldn't even be liablefor income tax because it would be the entirety alone thatwould be liable. Is that the --MR. SUTTON: No. No, Your Honor.QUESTION: -- fair consequence of what you'resaying?MR. SUTTON: Under section , which is theprovision of the Internal Revenue Code that taxesproperty, income from tenancy by the entirety property isstill taxed. It's never been a --QUESTION: No, but the income goes into a bankaccount held by the -- held in entirety form. If they'recareful enough, so that they set up their corporation, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC their savings account, their checking account,everything's held in entirety form, there wouldn't be anyindividual taxpayers under your theory.MR. SUTTON: Well, I'm not going to be in aposition to cite any cases for this point, the point thatI'm going to make, so you're going to want to check me onit, but I don't think there's any doubt that when it comesto income from tenancies-by-the-entirety property, thecase law, the code, the regulations make it clear thatthey're still -- you're still taxable. It's just aquestion of --QUESTION: Well, I don't think there's anydoubt, either, but I think the fact that there isn't anyserious doubt about it is, at least so far as the Statesthat Justice Ginsburg's example referred to, there also isan inconsistency between the fact that we have no doubt,as you say, about taxability and the consequences of yourtheory.MR. SUTTON: Well,it's a -- they're verydifferent concepts and maybe it's important, particularlyin light of Justice Breyer's comment about this justseeming to be a fiction, there's a real function behindthis concept, and the function is that, while the tenancyis premised on this nice notion of two hearts beating asone, the fact is that doesn't always happen, and the whole th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC point of the tenancy and the indivisibility of title isthat it precludes one spouse unilaterally from destroyingor otherwise incumbering the tenancy.Keep in mind, that's exactly what happened inthis case.QUESTION: Well, but the --QUESTION: Then in your mind the critical factoris the factor that creditors under State law can't get ahold of it.MR. SUTTON: No, Your Honor. If it'sindivisibly owned, that means that every lien on Don'sinterest was a lien on Sandy's interest, and Sandy paidher taxes. If there's one first principle of lien law,it's that --QUESTION: Okay. Then you're saying it's thetheory of the thing.MR. SUTTON: It's --QUESTION: Okay. If it's the theory of thething --MR. SUTTON: It's a theory that has a fact --QUESTION: If it's the theory of the thing,primarily, plus the fact -- all right. If it's the theoryof it, why --QUESTION: Go ahead.QUESTION: If it's the theory of it, doesn't the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC same theory exist with community property? Doesn't thesame theory exist with joint tenancies? For all I know,the same theory exists when people said, you don't own anyland, you just hold it from the king, and you have feudalobligations unless you pass along the seasons. I mean,that's -- if we're going on the theory of the thing --MR. SUTTON: I really hope I can clarify thisbecause I do think it cuts the heart of this case. MostStates that don't have tenancies by the entirety do havejoint tenancy, so that really is the key comparison, andas to those States, when you have a joint tenancy, firstof all they are divisible interests.If they're divisible interests, that means onespouse unilaterally can incumber and in some instancessell that right, whether it's a future right, the right ofsurvivorship, or a present right with respect to someinterest in the property, so that's the whole point. Thewhole point is, in those States people have decided tomarry, buy property together, but yet from the beginningone spouse unilaterally could destroy or incumber theproperty.In a tenancy by the entirety, at the outset,every decision you make regarding that property has to bemade with the consent of your spouse.QUESTION: Well, is the question of taxability th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC at bottom a question of Federal law, do you suppose?MR. SUTTON: I would submit, Your Honor, thatwhen it comes to the tax lien statute the Court has saidseveral times that Congress did not define the words,property, rights to property belonging to. We look firstto State law --QUESTION: But is it a question of Federal law,and as a policy matter we generally look to State law? But isn't that itself a question of Federal law, theextent to which we're going to look to State law?MR. SUTTON: Well, Your Honor, I had thoughtthat you take the State law's property interests as youfind them in the or jurisdictions, depending on howyou want to look at it, and then, depending how theStates --QUESTION: But for tax purposes, I'm justwondering if at bottom it isn't, in fact, a question ofFederal law.MR. SUTTON: It is a question of Federal lawwhat the, quote, consequences of those State lawdefinitions are, but let me give you, I think, a goodindication of this, and it relates to a hard issue raisedby Justice Ginsburg. What about tenancy by the entiretywhere it was a joint bank account, which is clearly a muchharder case, not presented here. Here, we're talking th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC about the marital home.But in National Bank of Rodgers, which was abouta joint tenancy, the Court said in a - decision that youcould levy on one person's joint bank account. Why wasthat? Because under State law, the taxpayer, or he had aright to all of the money in the account unilaterally,whenever he wanted it, and if he misused it, that wassimply to be a fight among the other joint tenants.Justice Blackmun in writing that decision madeit crystal clear that that case turned on the fact thatunder State law the taxpayer had a unilateral right totake all the proceeds. If that State law had saiddifferently, that the only way you can take out theproceeds is with the consent of the spouse, there's --QUESTION: Which case are we talking about now?MR. SUTTON: National Bank of Commerce, ,joint bank account. If that State law had said, the onlyway you can take out the money in the bank account is withthe consent of the other, the Court, by the terms of itsdecision, would not have allowed that levy, and remember,the levy and lien statutes have the exact same language,which, you know, in order to lien something you've got tobe able to levy it, generally speaking.So I don't -- that proves to me -- I hope thisanswers your question, Justice O'Connor -- that these th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC definitions of State law do matter. They are controllingwhen it comes to the consequences, and I hope I've showed,when it comes to --QUESTION: Mr. Sutton, I think that there wasconsiderable attention in the Drye case to exactly what itwas you look to State law for. You look to State law tofind out what the person had. Whether that wascharacterized as property or not was a Federal lawquestion, and Drye could not have been clearer that youlook to see what sticks the State law gives.MR. SUTTON: But Your Honor, what have I saidthat makes you think I'm disagreeing with that?QUESTION: Well, I thought you said that whetherit's property is determined by State law.MR. SUTTON: I'm simply saying the interests inthe property are determined by State law.QUESTION: What the taxpayer had is determinedby State law.MR. SUTTON: Exactly.QUESTION: But not the label that we put on it.MR. SUTTON: Absolutely.QUESTION: For Federal tax purposes. MR. SUTTON: Absolutely, and I'm sorry if I leftthat ambiguous. I mean, let's talk about this in terms ofthe classic -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: Your point there is right there. Your point is, I take it, that in this case State lawdefines the property such that it belongs to both partiesand, indeed, it is not possible under State law withoutthe death, divorce, or consent of one of the parties foranyone to get a hold of a penny of the -- of thatinterest.MR. SUTTON: Absolutely, Your Honor.QUESTION: That's your point --MR. SUTTON: To use the sticks --QUESTION: -- that both of those things have tobe true, the theory and the practice.MR. SUTTON: Yes.QUESTION: All right.MR. SUTTON: To use the sticks in the bundleanalogy, every interest under State law in Michiganregarding this tenancy, each stick has to be exercised twoby two, not one by one, but every one of them is two bytwo, husband and wife, and certainly not three by three,which is what the Federal Government is saying here.QUESTION: But it is for the Federal Governmentto determine to what property the lien extends.MR. SUTTON: I couldn't agree more, Your Honor.I mean, not -- I wouldn't say the executive branch. Imean, in the Benson decision they admitted that the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC lien does not cover tenancy by the entirety. If you lookat that decision, they admitted in that case itdoesn't cover it, so this is not an administrativedeference situation at all, but the Federal Government,through Congress and the President, does have a right toextend it. I will admit, it's not going to be easy, andif we could go back to thinking about --QUESTION: Their point to the contrary isbasically, you're right, or assuming you're right, it'sstill definite enough to get at, and you really violateState law policy there only if you sell the property, yousee, but as long as -- and, indeed, if they sell it ontheir own, that's their problem. You'll get the proceeds. If they don't sell it on their own, you know, thecommunity -- if they don't sell it on their own, then itbecomes a question of how the judge will enforce the lien,and there your clients or the equivalent would be free togo in and say, don't force me to sell the property, etcetera.MR. SUTTON: I hope I'm responding to yourquestion. I think what I hear you saying is that boy,this is just a lien, they're just placeholders, it doesn'tmean they'll necessarily foreclose, and therefore Sandy'sinterests really aren't being hurt. I would submit that'swrong. Sandy Craft -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: You say Sandy. She's noted as therespondent as Sandra.MR. SUTTON: Excuse me, Your Honor. I'll sayMrs. Craft, to be even more careful. Excuse me.But in this particular case, the lien does havean impact on their ability collectively to make decisionsabout the property. Let's say the month after the lienattached, they decided, we need to borrow against thehouse to have enough money to pay for our kids' collegeeducation, because the roof has collapsed. They can't dothat.Prior to the lien, she had a right to make adecision not with the Federal Government about how to usethis property, but with her husband, and a classic tenetof lien law is you get no more lien rights than the debtorhad, and you've got a situation here where they're )trying to act as a spouse, but ) dictating how thisproperty ought to be used, when that was a decision thatunder Michigan law only the two spouses could maketogether.I want to go back to a point that I went over alittle bit too quickly. The consequence --QUESTION: I'd just like to ask you one questionabout Michigan law in origin, because you said this goesback to , so it was probably before the Married th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Women's Property Act, so -- at least in some States itwas, so whatever rights there were to control and makedecisions, they were all in the husband at that time.MR. SUTTON: Most of the Married Women'sProperty Acts, almost all of them were passed before ,so first of all that defect, I would call it, in the oldtenancy simply was no longer true, and even in some Stateswhere that continued, it was still this, I guess it's jureuxoris concept, that it wasn't the husband as anindividual having an opportunity to do this, it was thehusband acting on behalf of the wife, but that just isn'ttrue under Michigan law. They still have these equalinterests in the property, as proved by the fact of whathappens on a divorce.The point I glossed over and I wanted to makesure was understood, the issue here is not just whetherthe lien attaches to the tenancy, I would submit thatunder Michigan law, if a lien does attach, it destroys thetenancy, so we have a situation where a unilateral act ofone spouse has destroyed the tenancy by operation of lawunder Michigan.It becomes a tenancy in common that destroys theright of survivorship, and that also means because thereare now divisible interests in the property that onespouse, unilaterally again, can incumber the property and th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC expose the marital home to these debts of just one spouse,so this is not just a modest question then.QUESTION: But --QUESTION: I thought, Mr. Sutton, this is aquestion of what the Federal taxing authority can do. Everything that you've been speaking about is somethingthat Michigan can say, no creditor of these people --MR. SUTTON: Your Honor, I agree with you,Michigan could change the law, though I think at thatpoint the rationale and the effect would line up.QUESTION: I don't think there's any questionthat Michigan law, just as Arkansas law, continues to say,creditors, you can't get at this disclaimed property, samething Michigan can say. The only thing that Michigancan't control if this decision should go the other way iswhat the Federal taxing authorities can do, not one thingabout any other creditor under Michigan law.MR. SUTTON: The problem for people like theCrafts is that they've already said it. In Budwit v. Herrthey say, the minute you destroy the unity of ownershipyou destroy the tenancy, so I --QUESTION: Isn't the concern that the tenancynot be destroyed, in effect as a result of a consensualact by one of the spouses, an alienation by a spousealone -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. SUTTON: The nonconsensual act, right.QUESTION: -- the incurring of debt by onespouse alone as a consensual act, i.e., going on aspending spree?But here, the consensual act of the spouse hasnothing to do with it. It's not a consensual act of thespouse that the spouse has to pay income act --MR. SUTTON: Oh, but Your Honor, it is.QUESTION: -- and therefore it seems to meoutside the rationale that you're proposing for thetenancy.MR. SUTTON: I respectfully disagree, YourHonor. It's exactly the rationale. There's no differencefrom Mr. Craft unilaterally trying to incumber theproperty with his own loan, using the property as amortgage to back it up.QUESTION: Sure it is. He goes out and says, Iwant a loan to buy a Cadillac. That's certainly a fairconcern of the State in protecting the wife. That concerndoesn't extend to a situation in which the tax law of theUnited States says, you're going to pay tax on your incomewhether you like it or not.MR. SUTTON: But Your Honor, it's a unilateralact, number , by the spouse, and number , it is a lotlike a loan. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: What's a unilateral act, earning themoney?MR. SUTTON: It is a lot like a loan, YourHonor. If you need $, a month to support some badhabit, you can get it by borrowing from a bank or notpaying your taxes. It has the exact same effect when itcomes to the unilateral conduct of one spouse underminingthe marital property. But again --QUESTION: And then, if Congress said thisexplicitly, the same thing would follow, everything thatyou said. Congress would then be destroying --MR. SUTTON: They could do what they did in theestate tax, which is regulate it specifically. I wouldsubmit, it is not an easy process.QUESTION: I thought that the -- oh.MR. SUTTON: Why doesn't Mrs. Craft have atakings argument the minute this lien attaches for theentire value of her property? Why is that not the case? It's not obvious to me.QUESTION: Just as Mr. Drye didn't when hisState law said --MR. SUTTON: But there was only one taxpayer inDrye. You didn't allow a lien -- excuse me.QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. Sutton.MR. SUTTON: Thank you, Your Honor. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: Mr. Jones, you have minutesremaining.REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF KENT L. JONESON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERMR. JONES: Thank you. I have only a couple ofpoints. The first one is that the tenancy involved inthis case was destroyed when it was transferred from thehusband to the spouse. That's one. That's the firstinstance when it was destroyed, and secondly it wasdestroyed when the wife then sold it to a third party.What we have are proceeds that are not subjectto a tenancy by the entirety. We have proceeds thatare -- to which the former tenants are each entitled to percent. The right, their right to have percent of theproceeds is confirmed by . of the Michigan Code,which was enacted in , but it preexisted that as wepointed out in the cases that we've cited in our replybrief.I will say that the suggestion that this statutethat gives each spouse an equal right in the property onlyapplies to tenancies created after is a newcontention. It's not addressed in the briefs. It catchesus by surprise, but I will point out that the Dow case --QUESTION: It shouldn't be a surprise if it's inthe statute you're quoting to us. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. JONES: What I will -- what is in thestatute that I --QUESTION: Is it in the statute?MR. JONES: What I have in my possession is acopy that says that the effective date is , and I doknow that in Dow v. State, decided by the supreme court ofMichigan in , they applied that statute to a tenancythat had been created prior to . This statute thatwas enacted in reflects a policy of, I suspect, everyState in the modern era to recognize the equal rights ofthe spouses and the tenants in the property, and not torespect --QUESTION: Suppose it didn't. I mean, is ityour -- are you conceding, then, that the Governmentcannot assert a lien on a real tenancy by the entirety?MR. JONES: No, not at all. I'm saying that wehave such a lien in this case, both from the right ofsurvivorship, if we ever had to get there, but moreimportantly because we have a lien in the right to receiveproceeds. This statute that was enacted in ' does notdirectly address the proceeds issue. The proceeds rightpreexisted the statute. What the statute addressed wasthe equal right to income during the existence of thetenancy by the entirety, and the equal right to controlthe management. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: Mr. Jones, can I ask you onequestion? I hate to take up your reply time. In yourview, will the decision in this case control in communityproperty States, raising the same question?MR. JONES: Well, I think the principles thatyou apply will, of course, control, and --QUESTION: Yes, but --MR. JONES: And whether a decision in this caseaddressed principles that would extend or apply in thatsituation as well as this, I can't say. I --QUESTION: Can -- do they -- in a communityproperty State, can one spouse force division over -- toan unwilling spouse?MR. JONES: Under State law there arelimitations, but those State law limitations have alreadybeen held to be ineffective against Federal taxprovisions.QUESTION: But the community property is subjectto the debts incurred during the marriage?MR. JONES: That's correct and, again, in theMitchell case the Court held that State law fictions aboutthe relative rights in community property States are no more binding on the Federal tax collector than in othercontexts.CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: Thank you, Mr. Jones. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC The case is submitted.(Whereupon, at : a.m., the case in theabove-entitled matter was submitted.) th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC 