 IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XWILLIAM JOSEPH HARRIS, Petitioner ::v. : No. -UNITED STATES. :- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XWashington, D.C.Monday, March , The above-entitled matter came on for oralargument before the Supreme Court of the United States at: a.m.APPEARANCES:WILLIAM C. INGRAM, ESQ., First Assistant Federal PublicDefender, Greensboro, North Carolina; on behalf ofthe Petitioner.MICHAEL R. DREEBEN, ESQ., Deputy Solicitor General,Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on behalfof the Respondent. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC C O N T E N T SORAL ARGUMENT OF WILLIAM C. INGRAM, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioner MICHAEL R. DREEBEN, ESQ.On behalf of the Respondent REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OFWILLIAM C. INGRAM, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioner PAGE th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC P R O C E E D I N G S(: a.m.)CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: We'll hear argumentnext in No. -, William Joseph Harris v. the UnitedStates. Mr. Ingram.ORAL ARGUMENT OF WILLIAM C. INGRAMON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERMR. INGRAM: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court:The petitioner in this case is asking the Courtto rule that the brandish clause of United States Code,Section (c) is an element to be charged and provedbeyond a reasonable doubt and not merely a sentencingenhancement, based on two separate and independent bases. The first is the statutory analysis under Jones v. UnitedStates, and the second basis is the constitutionalanalysis under Apprendi v. New Jersey. And I will addressthe Jones argument first. The carjacking statute in Jones v. United Stateshad, as additional elements, serious injury and death,which the Court held to be additional elements after thestatutory analysis was completed. And the carjackingstatute in that case and United States Code, section(c) in this case are virtually mirror images of each th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC other structurally and grammatically. The Court looked at the text of the statute, thelegislative history behind those facts, and howlegislatures historically had treated those facts indetermining that serious injury and death were, in fact,elements to be proved and not merely sentencingenhancements. Likewise, we contend that brandish, based on the-- the text of the statute, the -- how legislatures havetypically treated that fact and the fact that it involvesa mens rea element -- that is, brandish is -- is definedas displaying or making the presence known of a firearm inorder to intimidate and -- and mens rea has traditionallybeen an element -- and then based on the legislativehistory that those statutes would lead the Court toconclude, based on the statutory analysis, that brandishis in fact an element to be proved and not merely asentencing enhancement. QUESTION: But it's not so -- it seems to methat -- I understand your argument, but it's not so clearas it was in Jones. I mean, the difference between useand brandish is -- is a -- is a smaller difference indegree. The difference in the penalties are smallerdifferences. It's just a couple of years, the differencebetween and -- and , for example. And -- and I th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC understand how you can make the argument, but I don't seethe argument as being sort of a slam dunk in the case.MR. INGRAM: Your Honor, if I may address eachof those concerns. The -- first of all, the -- the factthat the increase under the brandish statute goes from amandatory minimum of to a mandatory minimum of -- of not being a steep increase, first of all, it does take thedefendant percent higher for brandishing from to ,and -- and it doubles the penalty percent higher fordischarging the firearm, which cannot be divorced from thebrandishing element. There are cases from this Court in the contextof ex post facto challenges to application of sentencesthat were enacted after the defendant committed the crime,most particularly Miller v. Florida, the leading casewhich we cite in our brief, where the Court held that anincrease in a sentence of anywhere from two to two and ahalf years substantially disadvantaged the defendant andforeclosed the defendant from asking for a lower sentence.Likewise, in the case of Glover v. UnitedStates, which we do not cite in our brief -- that is at U.S. -- the Court held, in the context of achallenge of ineffective assistance of counsel, that anadditional guideline sentence under the Federal sentencingguidelines of anywhere from to months meets the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC substantial prejudice prong of the ineffective assistanceof counsel claim. So, we contend that the increase from to years is in fact a -- a substantial difference. The elements in question, comparing seriousbodily injury and death to brandishing, are somewhatdifferent in that the serious bodily injury and death areresults, whereas brandish and discharge are conduct of thedefendant. But we contend that the brandish and dischargebeing treated more seriously are seeking to address thesame possible results; that is, if a defendant merelycarries a firearm or possesses a firearm, it is far lesslikely that serious bodily injury or death will resultthan if the defendant brandishes or discharge --discharges --QUESTION: Can I -- can I go to Apprendi? Because the -- I want to just focus you a little bit,assuming you lose on this argument. I want to know -- andthis is hard for me because I dissented in Apprendi. Iwant to know how you, as a person living with the case,understands it.Imagine two statutes. I just want to know ifyou think Apprendi applies to the second of the twostatutes. The first statute says the sentence is up to years for robbery, but if a gun is discharged, up to . There's no question that Apprendi applies to that second. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Doesn't it? MR. INGRAM: I agree with that. QUESTION: That's what Apprendi is about. Now, suppose I take that same statute and I justrewrite the words as follows. The maximum for this crimeof robbery is , but unless a gun is discharged, youshall not sentence to more than . Now, is that secondstatute treated identically to the first in yourunderstanding and the understanding of the bar? That'swhat I'm trying to get at. MR. INGRAM: Yes. My understanding is thatApprendi would cover the --QUESTION: Both. MR. INGRAM: -- latter statute that you havedescribed. QUESTION: Both. So, the wording of it doesn'tmatter.not.MR. INGRAM: No. I contend that it -- it doesQUESTION: All right. Now, if that's the case,I'd also like -- and this is my other -- only otherquestion. I'd -- I'd like to get your understanding. Thedefense bar, I understand, of which you're an importantpart, wants this extended, and my question is why. And this is my, why -- what I have trouble th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC seeing in this. It seems to me as a practical matterwhat's likely to happen is the prosecutor will come in,and it's primarily about drug cases. And they'll say,fine, we'll go to the jury. You want a trial? Fine. Yousay you were in Chicago? Fine. We say that there weretwo kilos of drugs, and then you have to get in front ofthe jury and argue my client was in Chicago, but just incase he happened to be around, there was only one kilo. Now, that's impossible for you to argue. Now, given that kind of problem, why does thedefense bar, why do you, and why does everyone else -- whyare they so anxious to extend this case?MR. INGRAM: Your Honor, that is not a problemthat the defense bar does not already face. In -- in thecontext that you described in a drug case, in Federalcourt now the evidence presented at trial will involveboth possession with intent to distribute evidence, aswell as quantity evidence. QUESTION: Yes, but still under the present law,if you have a good claim as to whether it's one kilo ortwo and the evidence is in dispute, you find the guiltyverdict come in. At that point, you go to the judge andyou say, now, judge, we want -- we want to go into theevidence here about how much drug there really was. Youcan't do that if you have to do it all at the same time in th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC front of the jury. MR. INGRAM: As a practical matter, in Federalcourt, the -- the Federal judges at sentencing rely on thetrial evidence. So, a defense attorney knows during trialthat I am hearing evidence about quantity that I want todispute because I know it's going to come up later in asentencing hearing, but I don't dare do that here becauseI am telling the jury that there was no possession at all. So, it is a dilemma that we face now and -- and facesattorneys, for example, in cases where you admit my clientdid kill someone, but not with malice aforethought. Quiteoften you do have to negate additional elements, and youdo have that dilemma already. This would not create anynew dilemma for us. QUESTION: Well, let me rephrase JusticeBreyer's question slightly or -- or make the point that Ithink underlies part of his question. Apprendi is not a -- true or false? Apprendi isnot an unmixed blessing for the defense bar.MR. INGRAM: I think it can create someproblems, as we just described, but they're not problemsthat we don't face in other areas and on other --QUESTION: Well, given Apprendi, of course, youface the problem. But looking at Apprendi as an originalmatter, which we cannot -- which I think we're unlikely to th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC do, it -- it has -- it imposes some real disadvantages ondefendants, does it not? MR. INGRAM: I do not think they're realdisadvantages. I think they're just -- they're just some-- some difficulties that defense attorneys face all thetime. QUESTION: Well, but the case Justice Breyerputs to you shows a very real difficulty. MR. INGRAM: And as I've described, that is adifficulty that we face already. And -- and theimportant --QUESTION: Because of Apprendi.MR. INGRAM: No, Your Honor. Before Apprendi. That problem faced defense attorneys in -- in a number ofcontexts. And -- and we're really more concerned here notso much with the problems it creates, because they're notnew problems, but with -- with the fact that mandatoryminimums add additional deprivations of liberty thatshould be addressed by the jury and found beyond areasonable doubt and not -- not left to the discretion oftrial judges, based on the case law of this Court,including Apprendi itself.We are relying on the constitutional ruleannounced in Apprendi. Prior to Apprendi, in -- inMcMillan and Patterson, the Court had acknowledged that th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC there were some limits, some constitutional limits to whata legislature could do in defining the elements of acrime. But it -- the Court had never announced exactlywhat those limits are.Now, it is true that Apprendi was limited to anincrease in statutory maximums because that is what thecase was about. Those were the facts of the case. Butthe constitutional rule that was the underpinning of theApprendi holding was that as -- as stated by the majorityin endorsing the concurring opinions in Jones as follows,it is unconstitutional for a legislature to remove fromthe jury the assessment of facts that increase theprescribed range of penalties to which a criminaldefendant is exposed, and equally clear that they must beproved beyond a reasonable doubt.So, the constitutional rule of Apprendi was anyfact that increases the range, either the floor or theceiling, of the prescribed penalties are constitutionallyelements that must be alleged by the defendant -- by theprosecution in the charging document and must be proved.QUESTION: What about things like the FederalSentencing Guidelines which also have the effect ofincreasing the range of the penalty within certain limits? There are lots of factors there that under the guidelinesthe judge would still decide. Under your argument, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Apprendi would throw all those out. It has to go to thejury. MR. INGRAM: I disagree, Your Honor, and --QUESTION: Why? MR. INGRAM: -- and I do agree with yourstatement that there are lots of things that theguidelines allow the judges to consider. First of all, mandatory minimums are just that. They are mandatory. They do not allow a judge to considerany mitigating factor, however strongly the judge may --may believe in those mitigating factors, to go below. Thesentencing guidelines, first of all, expressly allow thejudge to consider a number of aggravating and mitigatingfactors. QUESTION: But they may be unconstitutionalunder your theory. MR. INGRAM: They are not because we contendthat the guidelines, unlike mandatory minimums, stillleave the judge with lots of discretion. In Koon v.United States, this Court --QUESTION: The question is under your theory ofApprendi, which imposes constitutional limits ondiscretion for judges, that can be given to judges, howmany of the sentencing factors are going to fall by thewayside? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. INGRAM: I -- I submit that none of themwill because none of those factors mandate a particularpenalty to the exclusion of any mitigating offense. Forexample, under the drug guideline, if the defendantpossessed a firearm, then in a sense a two-level increaseis mandated or called for, but that nevertheless stillallows the judge, without a Koon discretionarydeparture --QUESTION: Well, that's exactly the kind ofthing that presumably under your argument would have to goto the jury, whether he possessed a firearm, or thequantity of drugs involved.MR. INGRAM: No, it is not, Your Honor, becausethe judge in such a case would still have the ability todepart, or first of all, to reduce the offense level forother mitigating facts in the case. QUESTION: You're -- you're saying that just thelevel is kind of inchoate until the sentence comes outbecause there are other factors that could be applied? MR. INGRAM: The -- the sentencing guidelinerange, once established, is mandatory unless and until thejudge determines that there is a legally permissible basisto depart downward or upward. And Koon recognized thatthere are innumerable bases for allowing the judge toexercise that discretion. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: So long as -- so long as the upwardor downward departure is there, you say Apprendi doesn'tcover it. MR. INGRAM: That's correct. QUESTION: Or downward, anyway. QUESTION: Oh, I see now. QUESTION: Downward or upward? Or upward? QUESTION: I said upward or downward. QUESTION: I know. And he agreed. (Laughter.) QUESTION: I'm surprised that he agrees. I -- Iwould think you would -- you would say that -- that it'sonly the downward that -- that saves the guidelines. MR. INGRAM: Well, I think it is in this case. The -- the fact that the judge can depart downward --QUESTION: I mean, suppose a judge could notdepart downward under the guidelines, could only -- onlydepart upward, you'd have a mandatory minimum, wouldn'tyou?that --MR. INGRAM: You would have. But that --QUESTION: Okay. So -- so, what you agree withis that so long as the judge, under the guidelines, hasthe option of departing downward, you wouldn't -- thiscase would not necessarily decide the guidelines. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. INGRAM: That is correct.QUESTION: Suppose --QUESTION: How -- how does a judge have theopportunity to depart downward under the guideline if theguideline says if he had a gun, you're supposed to go up? I just don't understand your argument at all.MR. INGRAM: Because that --QUESTION: -- purpose is if he has a gun, youincrease it. Why isn't that an Apprendi thing under yourtheory?MR. INGRAM: Because the judge still -- that --that does not bind the judge at that level. The judgestill --QUESTION: Suppose -- suppose the judge says,now, it's the policy in this court and in thisjurisdiction, counsel, that if you come in and yourdefendant has a gun or has brandished a gun, I'm going togo upward. I want you to know that. Then the case isdecided, and he said, you know, I would have given yourcounsel -- your client six months if he hadn't brandishedthe gun, but he brandished that gun: years. And youcontend he didn't brandish the gun. Why shouldn'tApprendi control that? MR. INGRAM: Because the -- the constitutionalrule announced by the Court is that if a legislature th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC mandates an increase in the prescribed range of penalties. In the case you've described, Your Honor, the judge,although he says I would still -- I will always go up, he-- he still has the freedom to not go up. QUESTION: So --MR. INGRAM: And -- and he is subject to anabuse of discretion standard on appeal. QUESTION: So -- so, in your view, Apprendistands for the proposition that legislatures cannotcontrol judges in the sentencing process.MR. INGRAM: No. My -- my -- in a sense that istrue. My position is constitutionally that legislatureshave the power to determine what conduct they're going tocriminalize and to define the elements and the prescribedpunishment for those elements as long as it is not crueland unusual. QUESTION: Well, I -- I think Apprendi isclearly binding here, and -- and we have to decide how --how it should be applied. I -- I do have some problems in -- in this casebecause of the fact that I think the statute is a littlebit different than Jones. I -- I don't agree that it'sstructurally the same. And I really don't see why thisshouldn't apply where judges have discretion. MR. INGRAM: Is your question why would this -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC why would the Apprendi doctrine not apply where the judgehas discretion? QUESTION: That's part of my concern, yes.MR. INGRAM: Well, I think the answer to that isthat constitutionally the -- the rule announced inApprendi is that where a legislature mandates a particularmandatory minimum or maximum, then that is where theconstitutional demands that the -- those facts be tried bybeyond a reasonable doubt --QUESTION: Where -- where a judge hasdiscretion, I suppose no single fact requires a certainsentence. Isn't that right? MR. INGRAM: That's correct. QUESTION: By definition, where the judge hasdiscretion, no single fact requires a certain sentence.MR. INGRAM: That is correct.QUESTION: But as a practical matter, even in --in this, suppose this judge thought that the -- Harrisshould not have gotten more than years. So, he says,well, the evidence of brandishing could go either way, soI want to give him years. I'll find -- I won't findbrandishing. That kind of discretion you -- theprosecutor I suppose couldn't say anything about. A judge -- a judge has that discretion no matter whatthe legislature rules are. He can say, it's a close th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC question whether brandishing exists. Therefore, I willnot find brandishing. That will bring him down to the -year level. Right? MR. INGRAM: That is true. If he -- if he --QUESTION: It's true? A judge -- a judge hasdiscretion, when he's making factual findings, to say whatis false? Even though he thinks one -- one fact is true,he has discretion to say that it's not true? MR. INGRAM: No. Your Honor, I don't mean tosay that he has discretion to make fact finding. That --that is always --QUESTION: That was the question. Does thejudge have discretion to say, even though I know there wasbrandishing, I'm going to say there wasn't brandishing. He doesn't have the kind of discretion.MR. INGRAM: No, he does not, and Imisunderstood the question then. QUESTION: No. I didn't say that even if heknew. I said if the judge said, well, it's a -- it's atough question, so I'm not going to -- I'm not going tomake up my mind on it.MR. INGRAM: Our position is once the judge doesconclude, by a preponderance of the evidence, thatbrandishing exists, he has no authority to give anythingless than the mandatory minimum, no matter what other th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC mitigating facts he may conclude may be present in thecase.QUESTION: What you're saying is he has to --MR. INGRAM: He is bound by that. QUESTION: What you're saying is he has to behonest when he decides the brandishing issue.MR. INGRAM: Yes. QUESTION: Okay. QUESTION: And I suppose he has to confront thebrandishing issue. He can't say, it's a tough question,so you know, I'm not going to -- I'm not going to face it. The law requires him to -- to decide whether there's beenbrandishing or not, doesn't it? MR. INGRAM: Yes, it does, by a preponderance ofthe evidence standard. And we contend where the -- underthe constitutional rule in Apprendi, that increasing themandatory minimum makes that fact an element that must befound not by a preponderance of the evidence, but by thefact finder at trial beyond a reasonable doubt. All themore important, because in this case, the judge noted thatit was a close case, and therefore the standard of reviewbecomes all the more important in -- as illustrated bythis case that --QUESTION: Close on brandishing. But he alsosaid, I would have given this guy years no matter what; th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Apprendi, without Apprendi, years is what I think isright for him. Isn't --MR. INGRAM: That is what -- that is what he atleast implied strongly. But he cannot do that -- if -- ifwe prevail here and we go back for a resentencing, thejudge is not going to be able to give more than years. That is the -- the guideline sentence. There's noguideline range for this. The guideline is the mandatoryminimum sentence. The judge will not be allowed to give more than years unless he identifies a legally permissible basis foran upward departure. And in that case, he can increaseabove the -year mandatory minimum.QUESTION: Suppose on -- on remand, if youprevail here, -- well, I guess there would have to be anew -- a new trial on the sentencing point. But supposethe judge says, you know, the jury has found there's nobrandishing because he displayed it but they didn't thinkthat was brandishing under my instructions. But he didhave a gun and he did show it, and even if that isn'tbrandishing, I'm going to up it to years. He can dothat?MR. INGRAM: If I understand Your Honor'squestion, then yes. If a jury concluded that thedefendant -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: No brandishing. MR. INGRAM: -- did not brandish -- that is, ifit was considered to be an element and the jury determinedthat he did not brandish -- then first of all, he would benot guilty of the crime, because that would be an elementthat must be proved, and any element that is not provedbeyond a reasonable doubt means that he would be notguilty of the crime. But if there, for example, was some accompanyingcharge that the defendant was found guilty of and not thebrandishing, then certainly the judge would have thediscretion to consider whether the firearm was brandishedor discharged.QUESTION: Are you saying that if he werecharged with this offense and charged specifically withbrandishing, and the jury found him not to havebrandished, he would have to be acquitted? MR. INGRAM: That is correct. QUESTION: Wouldn't -- wouldn't there be alesser included offense of everything in the statuteexcept brandishing?MR. INGRAM: Well, that is true. By saying hewould be acquitted and found not guilty, it would be ofthe separate offense of brandishing the firearm.QUESTION: But -- but the prosecution would be th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC entitled to a charge on a lesser included offense.MR. INGRAM: That is correct. That is correct.QUESTION: But -- but wait. But you would allowthe judge to increase his sentence on the basis of thejudge's belief that he was brandishing? MR. INGRAM: Yes. That -- that is -- although Ido not agree with --QUESTION: Well --MR. INGRAM: -- with that policy, neverthelessthat is -- that is the case under the status of the lawnow. Where a defendant is found not guilty, for example,of substantive drug offenses, at sentencing, the judge isallowed to conclude beyond -- by a preponderance of theevidence that those quantities were possessed and, infact, should count against the defendant for sentencingpurposes.QUESTION: Well, I'm quite surprised at that. I-- I tried to phrase my -- my question to get around that. I said the judge accepts the jury finding that there wasno brandishing, but everybody agrees that he did at leasthave a gun and so he's going to increase it for that. That was my hypothetical. But in answer to JusticeScalia, you said the judge could say I think there'sbrandishing by a preponderance of the evidence. I'msurprised at that. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. INGRAM: We are suggesting that brandishingmust be proved --QUESTION: That's this Court's case I take it --QUESTION: That -- that -- I --QUESTION: -- which maybe we should reconsider.QUESTION: Why don't you let him answer? AnswerJustice Kennedy's question. MR. INGRAM: By -- by saying that the brandishmust be an element to be proved beyond a reasonable doubt,we are not contending that if the jury finds the defendantnot guilty on that particular element, that the judgemight not be able to consider, by a preponderance of theevidence, that fact, in -- in addition to any other numberof mitigating and aggravating facts, in -- in determiningthe appropriate sentence.QUESTION: I'm surprised at that.QUESTION: But the appropriate sentence withinhis discretion. MR. INGRAM: That is correct. That is correct. He could not --QUESTION: And -- and it is true that under theguidelines a judge can find something that the jury didn'tfind because the standards are different, beyond areasonable doubt in the one case, and the judge said,well, I'm -- I would think, too, it wasn't proved beyond a th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC reasonable doubt, but there is a preponderance of theevidence. Therefore, I find it, for purposes of myguideline calculation. That's -- that's quite common,isn't it? MR. INGRAM: It is -- it is quite common thatthe judge finds by a preponderance of the evidence bothconduct that was not even charged and conduct that wascharged and -- of which the defendant was found notguilty, because of the difference in the standard ofproof. QUESTION: So -- so --MR. INGRAM: That is -- that is -- I'm not happywith that either, but that is the case law and that is thelaw as -- as it stands. QUESTION: So, what have you accomplished if --if they just rewrite the guidelines to say you get yearsfor brandishing? MR. INGRAM: What we will have accomplished --QUESTION: The consequence will be that even ifthe jury finds no brandishing as an element of the crime,the -- the judge may -- and indeed, under the guidelines,must -- add years for brandishing if he thinks, by apreponderance of the evidence, there was brandishing,which is the situation you're in now. QUESTION: And if I can pile onto Justice th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Scalia's question, you now have the worst of both worldsbecause you have the disadvantages we referred to atfirst, and yet the judge can still go upward. MR. INGRAM: No, Your Honor, it does not. Ifthis is an element to be proved at trial, and the finderof fact determines beyond a reasonable doubt that the --the Government has failed to find beyond a reasonabledoubt that he brandished, then he can only be sentencedfor the carry and use phase or possession of the statute. And -- and that only mandates a -year mandatory minimum. Therefore, brandish cannot under thosecircumstances increase the range. It cannot increase themandatory minimum. It cannot increase the maximum. Thejudge can still sentence within the mandatory to life. He simply cannot and is not bound by a determination thatthe defendant brandished and therefore he must give ahigher sentence. He -- he can in considering that, alongwith any other aggravating and mitigating factors.QUESTION: But the guidelines can require him togive a higher sentence. If the same higher sentence of years were mandated in the guidelines, you say that'sokay. Right? MR. INGRAM: It would not be mandated in thesame sense. A mandatory minimum is just that. The judgehas no longer any discretion to go below. The -- the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC defendant has no right to ask the judge to go below. Theprosecution is empowered to insist that the judge give thehigher mandatory minimum sentence. The defendant is notprecluded under the guidelines from asking the Court todepart downward on any number of legal bases for downwarddepartures that take his case outside the heartland ofcases under Koon v. United States. If there are no further questions, I willreserve the remainder of my time for rebuttal. QUESTION: Very well, Mr. Ingram. Mr. Dreeben, we'll hear from you. ORAL ARGUMENT OF MICHAEL R. DREEBENON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTMR. DREEBEN: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court:This Court's decision in McMillan v.Pennsylvania forms the backdrop for both the statutory andthe constitutional questions in this case. As a matter of statutory interpretation, theamended section (c) creates one crime with a minimum of years and a maximum of life in prison and then gives thesentencing court additional guidance as to where thepenalty shall be set within that -year-to-life range. The increase in the mandatory minimums does not run afoulof the Apprendi rule and is, in fact, specifically th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC endorsed by this Court's decision in McMillan. And on the constitutional question, this Court'sdecision in McMillan years ago established that it doesnot violate the Constitution for a legislature to chooseone fact that has historically borne on the appropriatepenalty to be assessed at sentencing and give the judgeguidance as to what that sentence shall be. QUESTION: Well -- well, given the precedent ofApprendi, suppose the judge says, now, you know, the juryfinds an enhancement because of harassment, and the judgesays, well, under -- let me begin again. Under your theory of the case, the jury doesn't-- the judge said, you know, I would ordinarily give you months, but I -- I find there's a harassment here -- orpardon me -- brandishing here, and so I'm going to giveyou to years. True, it's a mandatory minimum. True,that's different than Apprendi. But it certainly seems tome that the concerns Apprendi -- of Apprendi are fullyapplicable here. MR. DREEBEN: Justice Kennedy, there are severalsignificant differences between the issue in a case likethis and the issue in a case like Apprendi. In Apprendi,the judge could not go above the jury's verdict based onthe Court's constitutional analysis. In other words, thejury sets the outermost limit that the judge can do, and th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC in the sense of protecting the jury trial right, theApprendi rule tracks onto what the jury must find. Here, regardless of what the jury finds, thejudge has the discretion and the authority to sentence thedefendant between years and life in prison. What themandatory minimum takes away is not a jury trial right,but a right to judicial discretion to give a lowersentence than the mandatory minimum calls for. But Apprendi was not about protecting judicialdiscretion. Apprendi, in fact, limited judicialdiscretion and said that the judge cannot go above themaximum that the jury's facts have determined. Here thejudge is not doing anything that he could not do based onthe jury's verdict anyway. All that is happening is thathe is losing the discretionary power to give less, andthat judicial discretion interest is not the interest thatwas at stake in Apprendi. That's reinforced by the fact that the historythat this Court relied on, as one of its key determinantsin the Apprendi decision, is not present in this case. The history in Apprendi, the Court concluded, showed thatit has been the rule down centuries into the common lawthat the judge cannot give a higher sentence than based onthe facts that the jury has determined. But there is nocomparable historical rule that would support a preclusion th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC of judicial discretion within the otherwise applicablerange. The history of sentencing in this country showsthat within the maximum sentence established by the juryverdict, judges have been often given tremendous amountsof discretion on what sentence they should impose. Butthe history of sentencing also reveals that legislatureshave frequently intervened in order to establish moreprecise rules to govern that discretion. And the --therefore, there is no broad historical rule that iscontradicted by a statute like the one in this case andthe one that was at issue in McMillan.QUESTION: But if that's so, do you -- do youaccept what -- what your -- what the petitioner said inrespect to my second statute, if you remember it? Thesecond statute is, Congress passes a law and it says themaximum for robbery is years, but if there is noinjury, then it's or . Now, does Apprendi apply tothat? MR. DREEBEN: It --QUESTION: Or if there is -- if the gun isn'tdischarged. Does Apprendi apply to that? MR. DREEBEN: It might, Justice Breyer. Thecrucial question is whether that statute has created anaffirmative defense. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: No, no, no. There is no doubt thatthe statute I'm talking about intends the fact ofdischarge to be a sentencing factor. There is no doubt. I mean, I can write it in such a way that that's clear.MR. DREEBEN: If it's --QUESTION: Now, at that point, Apprendi is aconstitutional rule, and therefore does the discharger not have to be presented to the jury?MR. DREEBEN: As I understand Apprendi, itwould.QUESTION: All right. If that's so, then whatdid you say in your first answer? You've had two parts. You had a -- a purposive part and you had a historicalpart. All right. Now, did you say anything, otherthan saying eloquently and in several different ways, thatApprendi concerned a maximum and this case concerns aminimum, which I am sure that the petitioners wouldconcede? MR. DREEBEN: The significance of it concerninga minimum is that under this statute, once the juryreturns a verdict of guilty, using or carrying a firearmduring in relation to an underlying drug traffickingoffense, the judge has the authority by virtue of thatjury verdict to sentence from years to life in prison. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC That's what the statute means.What the mandatory minimum provision does issay, within that range, we want this defendant sentencedto not less than .QUESTION: All right. That's certainly true. But what's bothering me about it is every factor inApprendi -- and I was against Apprendi. I dissented. Buthaving that now being the law, it seems to me everyfactor, other than the fact that this is a minimum andthat's a maximum, applies a fortiori in this case.MR. DREEBEN: Well, the two most significantfactors, as I've tried to say -- and I'll try one moretime -- is that in Apprendi, the defendant could not havegotten a sentence above years based on the jury'sverdict alone. It took an additional finding by the judgeto send him into the realm where the maximum was now ,and then he -- Apprendi got . In this case, once the jury or, as it happens,the judge -- the defendant waived a jury trial -- assigneda finding of guilt to the defendant, the statute said,your sentence, Mr. Harris, is between years and life inprison. And the statute comes along and doesn't give thejudge the authority to do something that he could not havedone before.QUESTION: So, Apprendi is just a draftsmanship th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC problem, really. So, I mean, it's bad if -- if thelegislature says, for this crime you get years, but ifyou brandish a weapon, you get another . That's bad. So, the legislature, that's okay. I'm sorry. For -- for this crime you get to, but if you brandish, you get -- you get . So, I say, okay, we'll revise it in light ofApprendi. For this crime, you get -- you get to , butif you brandish a weapon, it shall be . That's okay,although the other one wasn't okay. And -- and it's up tothe judge to find whether it's brandishing or not.MR. DREEBEN: The difference in that statute,Justice Scalia -- and I agree that that would not triggerthe rule that this Court announced in Apprendi -- is thatas the Court's opinion in Apprendi notes, if Congresswrites the second kind of statute and says the range is to , it is exposing all defendants who are sentencedunder that statute to a possible sentence of years. And the Court said that structural democratic constraintsexist to deter legislatures from enacting statutes withmore draconian maximum penalties than they think areappropriate for the worst of the worst who are going to besentenced under that statute. Now, here when Congress amended section (c),it went from a statute that had determinate sentences. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Previously whatever you did under (c), the judge had nosentencing discretion at all. It was just years or years or years. Congress changed that and said this isa more serious crime. This is a crime which, if you'reconvicted of it, you're going to get at least years withan implied maximum all the way up to life in prison.By virtue of doing that, Congress envisionedthat there would a spectrum of offenders under section(c), some of whom are going to be at the bottom of thetier and are just the least worst offenders under thatstatute. They'll get years. Others are going to be theworst of the worst. They are going to get a sentence thatwill be closer to the top of the statute. Within thatrange, Congress gave to the sentencing judge additionalguide points of how to exercise that discretion. Forsomeone who brandishes, that's a little worse than simplyusing; he should get at least years. For someone whodischarges -- that's an increment worse yet -- it's years. But there's still all of the head room up tolife in prison that Congress established for this offense. It doesn't violate the Eighth Amendment for Congress tosay that someone who brings a gun into a drug or a violentcrime has committed a serious offense. We want the judgeto have up to life in prison. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: So, if you tell the --QUESTION: May I ask you a question on -- on adifferent topic? Because I think we understand yourargument here and I -- Justice O'Connor asked youropponent, in essence, to what extent he thought thesentencing guidelines were implicated by this case. Wouldyou comment on that subject? Tell us what you think theimpact of this decision will have on the sentencingguidelines.MR. DREEBEN: Justice Stevens, it's unclear whatimpact this decision will have on the sentencingguidelines, I assume on the assumption that the Courtextends Apprendi to mandatory minimums. The sentencing guidelines are like mandatoryminimums in certain respects. They provide ranges, oncethe judge has determined by a preponderance of theevidence, the defendant's conduct and criminal history,that by statute the judge is to give a sentence within. But they differ from mandatory minimums in that thestatute further says that the judge can depart from theguidelines sentence based on an aggravating or amitigating fact that distinguishes the case from the kindsthat the guidelines' drafters had in mind.Now, the guidelines are -- are differentprimarily in that there is a broader range of discretion th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC available for the judge to depart than there is under amandatory minimum. I emphasize that this is a question of degreerather than one of kind because even these mandatoryminimums under section (c) can be departed from. Ifthe Government makes a motion that says the defendant hasrendered substantial assistance to the Government in theprosecution of others, that authorizes the judge to departfrom what is otherwise a mandatory minimum. That sameground for departure also exists within the guidelines,and it accounts for more than half of the departures thatexist in the guidelines. Now, the guidelines do, of course, provide afurther zone of less guided discretion to the judge inwhen he can depart. And if this Court rules against theGovernment in this case, we will be back saying that thatzone of discretion distinguishes the guidelines. Whetherthe Court agrees with that or not will be an openquestion. QUESTION: Right. I understand, but at leastthe -- at least the argument that your opponent made wouldbe available to the Government. There's a differencebecause of the amount of discretion --MR. DREEBEN: That's correct. QUESTION: -- under the guideline. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC I did not understand. I want to be sure I don'tmiss this point that you made in your answer. Do youargue that in this case it's really not a mandatoryminimum because there is the discretion in -- in theprosecutor to ask for -- for a deviation from the statute?MR. DREEBEN: No, not in the sense that YourHonor is asking the question. But I -- I do wish to underscore that there is-- there is a range of ways that Congress can draftstatutes and the States can draft statutes. Under thedrug statutes, for example, there's not only thesubstantial assistance departure that I've mentioned, butthere's also a departure for first-time offenders calledthe safety valve. Now, that adds an additional amount ofdiscretion to the judge. And any constitutional rule that this Courtdevelops for mandatory minimums is going to have to bevery careful in articulating how much discretion is enoughin order to make the mandatory minimum no longer mandatoryand no longer minimum. It could be that the availabilityof the substantial assistance departure is enough to takeit out of a rule that says never means never, and if -- ifCongress says never, then the judge can't make thefinding. That is precisely why we urge the Court to th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC adhere to McMillan v. Pennsylvania which held years agothat it is permissible for -- for the legislature toprovide additional guidance. And the Court left open thepossibility that particular statutes may fall under aconstitutional rule, but it didn't prescribe the sort ofrigid rule that petitioner is advocating in this case.QUESTION: Mr. Dreeben, apart from one beingwithin the jury zone and the other not, is there arational distinction between saying, judge, you can't addon years at the top and saying you can't subtract years at the bottom? MR. DREEBEN: The rational distinction, JusticeGinsburg, is that in the former case, the defendant has aright to a jury trial that has to find him guilty on allthe facts that are going to determine the longest possibletime that he can spend in prison. Under this statute, even if he does have a jurytrial right to brandishing -- just suppose that he did;suppose that Congress gave it to him so we eliminate theconstitutional question -- the jury could find him notguilty. And the judge could still say, well, I think by apreponderance of the evidence, you did brandish, andexercising my discretion, I'm going to give you exactlythe same years that the statute called for. The fact that that can happen shows, I think, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC that the right that's in play here is not a right to ajury trial that will protect the defendant against thepossibility of this increased punishment. It is the rightto have a judge with unlimited discretion not to imposethe mandatory minimum even if he finds brandishing,because that is the distinction that I think bothpetitioner and I draw between the sentencing guidelinesand this mandatory minimum. And the right to judicialdiscretion is simply not the Apprendi right. It's not aright that's been historically recognized. And if this Court were to accept respondent's --or petitioner's analysis of the constitutional rules thatgovern here as being drawn from the ex post facto cases,which is essentially what he relied on in his reply briefand in this Court, the Court would have to fashion a farmore sweeping constitutional rule than would addressmerely mandatory minimums, because the ex post facto casesare triggered by any substantial disadvantage to thedefendant. It doesn't have to be a substantialdisadvantage that can only be proved as an element of thecrime. The ex post facto cases apply to the withdrawal ofgood-time credits. They apply to the sentencingguidelines, as the Court held in Miller v. Florida. Theywould presumably apply to the withdrawal of an affirmativedefense after the defendant committed his crime. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC And petitioner, by relying on that test,essentially says, I want a rule that means that anytime Iam substantially disadvantaged by one aspect or another ofthe criminal laws of a State, the jury must find thosefacts. All facts that are germane to my punishment --QUESTION: Is that the implication of Apprendi?MR. DREEBEN: That is the --QUESTION: Is that where we're headed, in yourview?MR. DREEBEN: I hope not, Justice O'Connor,because I think that the Apprendi rule, as bounded by thehistory that the Court relied on and the explicitstatements of its holding, coupled with the Court'srecognition that, yes, legislatures can write statutesthat will achieve similar results to Apprendi but will doit in an acceptable form, all of those things suggest thatthe Court did not have a broad ruling on it. QUESTION: Do you have a sense of how theapplication of Apprendi is working out in the system now? I mean, how is it being applied? What's happening? Whathas changed as a result? MR. DREEBEN: Well, retrospectively Apprendi hascaused a considerable amount of judicial chaos as courtshave attempted to sort out harmless error, plain error,and retroactivity considerations, one of which is before th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC the Court next month in the Cotton case. Prospectively, the United States has respondedto Apprendi by having facts that raise the -- the maximumbe submitted to the jury. And it does, as a matter ofpractice, cause some complications in particularlyintricate conspiracy cases where the jury has to makeseparate determinations as to each conspirator. It also creates the kinds of issues that JusticeBreyer was talking about for defendants who are hamperedto some extent in their ability to present dualalternative defenses of the nature, I wasn't involved inthis conspiracy, but if I was, I'm only accountable for acertain amount of drugs, because the jury is being askedto make that determination. Once the jury makes itaffirmatively, the judge is not going to be in a positionat sentencing to second guess that. So, Apprendi does -- does restrict the -- thedefendant's ability to make a defense --QUESTION: -- defense bar complained about that,have they? MR. DREEBEN: The defense bar has been --QUESTION: I'm -- I'm unaware that they are --are keen on getting rid of Apprendi.MR. DREEBEN: Their primary desire to date sofar, Justice Scalia, has been to get all of the old th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC sentences in the pre-Apprendi regime overturned. And whenthey've finished with that agenda, maybe they'll turn totrying to get different proceedings at trial.QUESTION: But as far as you're concerned --QUESTION: To get it expanded.MR. DREEBEN: As cases like this reveal, there'sbeen an effort to expand Apprendi to what could be viewedas its widest logical implications, because although I'vepresented a theory for why Apprendi should be readnarrowly to avoid disrupting the traditional ability oflegislatures to structure sentencing, there is obviouslywithin the opinion the seeds of a much more fundamentalchange in the --QUESTION: Yes, but those are extensions --extensions on the -- on the basis that you've said, whichI now understand, is you say, well, there has to be a juryfinding for anything that will lead to a longer maximumterm, the highest possible term. And they say, yes, butif that's so, you also have to have a jury finding for theshortest mandatory term, because the shortest mandatoryterm is far more important to any individual defendantthan the highest theoretical possible term. And I thinkthat's what their argument rests upon, and that soundsbasically true. And it doesn't lead you down the pathyou're talking about. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. DREEBEN: I don't think that it would betrue for a defendant like the defendant in Jones who wasconvicted by the jury of a crime that carried a -yearpenalty.QUESTION: No, there are some -- there are someexceptions, but they're saying in general. And -- butwhat's -- I want to be sure I -- I'm in a slight dilemmabecause I think Apprendi was not right. But still, thereit is. And the -- but the -- the question -- I want tobe sure you finished Justice O'Connor's question. Myunderstanding is prospectively a ruling against you herewould not give the Government a lot of trouble. Prospectively what you would do is you would simply chargein the indictment every factor related to mandatoryminimums and go and prove it. And that's not herculean. That isn't some tremendously difficult thing to do, ornot?MR. DREEBEN: The Government could do that.QUESTION: They could do it. MR. DREEBEN: The States have a much wider rangeof mandatory minimum sentencing programs. They've filedan amicus brief in this case that itemizes the far greaternumber and wider range of State mandatory minimumprograms. I'm not in a position -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: Well, having read those, do you haveany impression in respect to the practicalities of it?MR. DREEBEN: I think that the States willsuffer increased practical problems compared to theFederal Government because in the Federal Government, themandatory minimums are in relatively specific areas and wecould, indeed, go forward and charge and prove them to ajury. The more fundamental implication of an extensionof Apprendi within the maximum term is that it does raisegreater questions about the constitutionality of schemessuch as the sentencing guidelines. Those are, of course,not only on the Federal level but prevalent throughout theStates as well. And -- and the process of drawing linesbetween whether mandatory minimums are mandatory enough totrigger any constitutional rule, versus sentencingguidelines not being, is going to require a process ofadjudication, and there's no way to predict where thatwill end up. It will largely depend on how broadly thisCourt interprets the rule that it announced in Apprendiand then if it applies it here, how it applies it.If there --QUESTION: May I ask you just a short -- so Idon't lose the point? In our discussion a little earlier,you mentioned a statute that makes the mandatory minimum th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC not percent mandatory because the Government may askfor a -- a departure. What is the statutory authority forthe Government to make such a motion? MR. DREEBEN: Under U.S.C., section (e).QUESTION: .MR. DREEBEN: Yes. The Government can file amotion for substantial assistance of the defendant in theprosecution of others, and upon that motion, the judge cango below. This Court analyzed that statute in Melendez v.United States several years ago, a case which I believe iscited in our brief. QUESTION: Mr. Dreeben, are you going to sayanything before you get done about the statutoryconstruction question? Because I'm -- if we said thestatute is like Jones, wouldn't that be the end of it?MR. DREEBEN: Correct. And, Justice Ginsburg, I-- I agree with the suggestion of Justice Souter earlierthat this statute is not identical to the Jones statuteand shouldn't be construed identically to it. First and most fundamentally, in Jones and againunanimously in Castillo, the Court commented that astatute that's written, as section (c) is written, hasthe look of the creation of sentencing factors when youstart off looking at it. In Jones, the Court then went onto analyze a number of structural features that suggested th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC that the initial look was unreliable. Here the initial look is reliable. Unlike inJones where the additional factors, serious bodily injuryand death, took the penalty from years, first to years, and then to life in prison, here the initial rangeof the statute is years to life, and the mandatoryminimums are fairly modest incremental increases in theminimum sentence of years and years. But most importantly, what is different from thestatute in Jones, the carjacking statute and the statutehere, section (c), is in Jones the carjacking statutewas modeled on three Federal robbery statutes. Two ofthose Federal robbery statutes contained serious bodilyinjury or putting somebody in jeopardy of serious bodilyinjury that were clearly offense elements, and the Courtcommented that it could see no reason -- and theGovernment was unable to adduce a reason -- why Congresswould have departed from the explicit models on which itrelied in drafting the carjacking statute. So you had afirmer basis for concluding in the carjacking statute thatCongress probably intended an element. Here not only do you not have that feature,because there was no Federal antecedent for section(c), but you have the very important consideration thatthere's no constitutional doubt that should be applied to th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC the construction of section (c). Unlike in Jones wherethe Court held that a series of cases over years hadraised constitutional questions about increasing themaximum, here the relevant precedent, of which Congress ispresumed to be aware, is McMillan v. Pennsylvania whichgave the legislature fair warning that it could providefor the kind of statute that it's provided here. And for those reasons, we think that the FourthCircuit and every other court of appeals that's analyzedthe question is correct in concluding that Congress'sapproach in section (c) was a sentencing factorapproach. The question then becomes whether that is aconstitutional approach.QUESTION: May I just ask another -- anotherquestion about the history and the length of the history? I particularly have in mind Justice Thomas's concurringopinion in Apprendi. Other than the McMillan case itself,are you aware of any long line of cases prior to McMillanreaching the same result? MR. DREEBEN: No, Justice Stevens. And thereason for that is that the history of sentencing in thiscountry moved from early statutes which were whollydeterminate.QUESTION: Right. MR. DREEBEN: Then in the th century, the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC legislatures and Congress and the State adopted a -- apolicy of having wide ranges and judicial discretionwithin them. Then later, legislatures moved to a systemof parole boards and -- and indeterminate sentencing inmany States.And it was as a result of those processes thatin the mid-th century and late th century, a varietyof commentators began to decide that this sentencingscheme that gives so much discretion to various actors inthe system was not acceptable because it producedunwarranted disparities against similarly situatedoffenders. And at that point, to promote transparency,meaning we know what -- why the judge is doing what he'sdoing, and uniformity, namely, similar offenders will getthe same sentence, schemes came along like mandatoryminimums and guideline sentencing. But I believe thatthey were understood to be directions to limit judicialdiscretion, not to wholly supplant it or to be the type ofstatute that the Court invalidated in Apprendi. And it's really the petitioner's burden in thiscase to show that these sentencing innovations areunconstitutional. In Apprendi, the defendant was able tocarry that burden by pointing to a long line of consistentjudicial decisions. Here neither party can point to along line of consistent decisions. What each of us does th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC is argue from the background baseline tradition. Our submission is that judges have always had awide range of discretion. Defendants have never been ableto rely on not getting a stiffer sentence within themaximum authorized ranges. Legislatures have relied onthis Court's decision in McMillan, saying that it'sconstitutional for the legislature to structure thatdiscretion, and we believe that the Court should adhere tothat position today.Thank you. QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. Dreeben. Mr. Ingram, you have minutes remaining.REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF WILLIAM C. INGRAMON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERMR. INGRAM: Responding to the questions aboutthe effect that a ruling in our favor will have on thelower courts, first of all, as noted, there will be noprospective impact. The Government in the Federal contextis already alleging drug amounts, is already allegingbrandish and discharge, and it's a very simple matter forthe Government and the prosecution, either the State orthe Federal courts, to allege and -- and prove theseadditional facts.Retroactively, there will be some cases thatwill be sent back. They will not be sent back to set th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC aside guilty verdicts or guilty pleas. They will simplybe sent back for resentencing, consistent with the opinionin this case, just like they were with Apprendi. There'snot nearly the flood of remands on Apprendi, and Baileyfor that matter, as the Government contends, but in anyevent, however many there are, if the Constitution demandsit, then so be it. The Government is concerned that a ruling in ourfavor will undermine legislatures' concerns about limitingjudicial discretion in sentencing by enacting mandatoryminimums. Those statutes, the statute in this case inparticular, and any statutes enacting mandatory minimumsin -- in the State courts will not go away with a rulingin our favor. The only difference is that the Governmentwill simply have to allege and prove the additional fact,further limiting the judge's discretion, whereas currentlythe judge has discretion to determine, by a preponderanceof the evidence, whether or not a fact exists or not. Once a jury finds beyond a reasonable doubt that it does,the judge has no more discretion and must impose themandatory minimum. And as has been pointed out and we point out inour brief and reply brief, we contend that mandatoryminimums, as a practical matter, are far more importantincreases at the bottom level than the possible increases th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC at the top of a sentencing scheme would be. And finally, we are not asking the Court toextend the constitutional rule announced in Apprendi. Apprendi was limited by its facts, but the constitutionalrule announced was that it is unconstitutional for alegislature to remove from the jury the assessment offacts that increased the prescribed range of penalties. Amandatory minimum increases the prescribed range ofpenalties. We are simply asking the Court to apply theconstitutional rule announced in Apprendi to the facts ofour case and -- and ask the Court to rule in our favor.CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: Thank you, Mr. Ingram.The case is submitted. (Whereupon, at : p.m., the case in theabove-entitled matter was submitted.) th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC 