 IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XCORNELIUS P. YOUNG, ET UX., Petitioners ::v. : No. -UNITED STATES. :- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XWashington, D.C.Wednesday, January , The above-entitled matter came on for oralargument before the Supreme Court of the United States at: a.m.APPEARANCES:GRENVILLE CLARK, III, ESQ., Manchester, New Hampshire; on behalf of the Petitioners.PATRICIA A. MILLETT, ESQ., Assistant to the SolicitorGeneral, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; onbehalf of the United States. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC C O N T E N T SORAL ARGUMENT OF GRENVILLE CLARK, III, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioners PATRICIA A. MILLETT, ESQ.On behalf of the United States PAGE th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC P R O C E E D I N G S(: a.m.)CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: We'll hear argumentnow in No. -, Cornelius P. Young v. the UnitedStates. Mr. Clark. ORAL ARGUMENT OF GRENVILLE CLARK, IIION BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERSMR. CLARK: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it pleasethe Court:This is a case about discharging taxes in abankruptcy proceeding. The Bankruptcy Code provides that income taxesthat are more than years old are discharged in abankruptcy proceeding. In the petitioner's case, theYoungs filed a Chapter bankruptcy proceeding in March of, some years, months after they had filed their income tax return in October of . The BankruptcyCode provides, on this simple set of facts, that theYoungs' income tax obligation is discharged. Theoperative code sections are , , and , which I setout at pages and of my brief. QUESTION: Well, they also filed an earlierbankruptcy petition, didn't they? MR. CLARK: They did indeed, Your Honor. That th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC was filed in May of . It was a Chapter proceeding. It lasted just short of months, and the -- the argumentthat the IRS has tendered in this case and below is thatyou subtract out the months they are in the priorproceeding from the calculation of the years, months,and when you do that, you come out with the Youngs endingup with being only years months away from the -yearmark --QUESTION: Well, why was the first Chapter petition dismissed? MR. CLARK: It was dismissed at the behest ofthe Youngs for a variety of reasons that did not appear inthe record. During the Chapter proceeding, they hadsucceeded in selling their house and paying off mortgageson the house that had -- they had placed on there. Lateron in the proceeding, they had gone through the trouble ofengaging special counsel, an attorney Noreen Farr, to dosomething which does not appear in the record. But theyfinally decided that they would dismiss the case ratherthan go forward with it. The reasons that they did not --do not appear in the record. They dismissed the case about weeks beforethey would have gotten to confirmation of their plan,which they had submitted earlier in the case. QUESTION: But there was also the fact that they th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC -- in addition to dismissing the Chapter , the daybefore that order was entered granting the dismissal attheir request, they started a new bankruptcy proceeding. They started a Chapter proceeding, and that way theywere able to stretch out the stay of any effort theGovernment might have made to collect the tax.MR. CLARK: The -- the bankruptcy -- the Chapter bankruptcy proceeding was dismissed. The final closingorder in the case was entered in March of . Themotion that -- or the request, I think, that the Youngshad filed was in October of , October , . It isour position that the automatic stay expired as soon asthe case was dismissed and not later when the case wasclosed a number of months later. And I think that issignificant because in our view the IRS was entitled torestart their enforced collection efforts against theYoungs --QUESTION: Do you have authority for that, forsaying that -- that it's not the date that the bankruptcywas closed, but some -- the earlier date when they -- whenthey made that motion? MR. CLARK: Yes. It's in the Bankruptcy Codeitself, section -- yes -- I'll have to get the --QUESTION: Is the filing of the notice ofdismissal, which was October ? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. CLARK: Yes. It's the filing of the noticeof dismissal, and that we contend is the dismissal. What happened subsequent to the -- the filing ofthat notice is the Chapter trustee held some funds thathad been paid in. He sought to apply for anadministrative expense, and that was put on for a hearingand eventually it was granted. And then thereafter theclerk's office closed the case in March of . QUESTION: Did anyone object to the notice ofdismissal? MR. CLARK: Not in a -- not in a Chapter where the debtor seeks dismissal. The debtor has theabsolute right to seek dismissal of his Chapter casebecause it's a voluntary proceeding. QUESTION: You used the term seek dismissal,move to dismiss in October, and then the proceeding wasactually dismissed in March. Are you saying that yoursimple motion to dismiss is the same thing as having itdismissed? MR. CLARK: Yes, I am in this situation, Mr.Chief Justice, because of -- the bankruptcy rules are alittle -- were a little vague at that point in time. Whether you seek a dismissal by simply filing a, quote,request or moving for a dismissal, the rule says that upona request for dismissal, the judge shall dismiss it. In th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC this particular case, the judge did not actually enter anorder of dismissal. It simply accepted the dismissal asentered or requested in October of . QUESTION: Well, this whole sequence of eventsseems a bit gimmicky.MR. CLARK: Well, if -- if there are gimmicks,if somebody is trying to manipulate the system, to gamethe system, certainly the Government -- any party ininterest who was affected by the gaming, the manipulation-- can object, can take -- can move to dismiss -- toconvert the case, for example, which --QUESTION: I thought there was a finding of goodfaith here, wasn't there? MR. CLARK: Yes, there was, Your Honor. QUESTION: Was it a finding of good faith or --or a finding that he was making no finding of bad faith?MR. CLARK: No. The -- the judge below, JudgeVaughn in the Bankruptcy Court, found in favor of theGovernment, suggesting that there was a potential, insimilar cases such as this, for abuse or manipulation bydebtors in general. But in this case, Judge Vaughn hadfound that he attributes no bad faith to the Youngs inthis particular situation, and I think that's an importantfact. The Government, when it objected to -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: Is it bad faith to look for a taxloophole? I think thought that's what all the taxattorneys always did. MR. CLARK: It's certainly not in our view badfaith to look for a tax -- for a way to get a grant of adischarge of an obligation that you formerly owed.QUESTION: Do you think that that's what thejudge meant -- meant by not attributing bad faith? Hedidn't even think that your client was legitimately tryingto take advantage of a tax loophole? That -- that's whatI took it to mean. MR. CLARK: The case -- Justice Scalia, the casecame before the court, before the Bankruptcy Court, on amotion for summary judgment by the motion -- by theGovernment. The -- there was no findings of fact as suchother than those that were on summary judgment. The --what the -- I see Judge Vaughn has -- as finding is thathe sees no evidence before the court from which he wouldinfer any manipulative or abusive scheme.QUESTION: Well, would it be manipulative orabusive just to take advantage of the provision of thestatute? MR. CLARK: No, Your Honor, it would not be.QUESTION: So, the finding doesn't make anydifference one way or the other, does it? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. CLARK: When bankruptcy -- bankruptcydebtors take advantage --QUESTION: You're just saying you have astatutory right to do what you did. MR. CLARK: That's exactly right, Justice --QUESTION: Why should we read the statuteregardless, when it's good faith or bad faith, as allowingthe following? We look back years to see how much moneya bankrupt filer owes the Government. He's going to haveto pay it. Let's say it's $,. He dismisses thatafter a number of years, the first bankruptcy, then bringsthe second bankruptcy proceeding and says, well, if welook back years from the second one, this $, Iowned -- I owed falls outside that period. It's simply awindfall to him because he brought two bankruptcyproceedings rather than one, and it's a loss to theGovernment for no reason other than his having brought twobankruptcy proceedings rather than one. It serves nopurpose whatsoever that I can fathom in the bankruptcystatute, and what purpose is there in reading the statuteto permit such a result? MR. CLARK: Justice Breyer, you would have tolook at what happened in the prior bankruptcy I think tosee why the debtor was able to stay in bankruptcy for thelength of time that the debtor did and thereby supposedly th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC prevent the Government from collecting taxes from thedebtor. A chapter -- usually the prior bankruptcy is areorganization bankruptcy, a Chapter , possibly aChapter . During the Chapter proceeding, that had --had a long life, the debtor had to propose a plan that hadto pay the taxes that the debtor owed in full over thelife of a plan, whether that be years, years, years,whatever it was. The plan has to go to confirmation. Ifthe plan is confirmed, all the plan payments that haveaccumulated to that point are now paid out to theGovernment and to other creditors in accordance with theplan. Plan payments that follow on still go to theGovernment and to other creditors as designated in theplan. The Government is getting money here during the --during the prior bankruptcy proceeding. Yes, a person can file for bankruptcy, submit aplan. It might be a -year plan. They get the planconfirmed. They make payments for years and then theyelect to dismiss. That is their right to -- to dismiss.QUESTION: Do they get the payments back ifthey --MR. CLARK: No. No, Your Honor, they do not. The -- the plan payments have been paid to the Governmentall throughout the -year period. They have a confirmed th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC plan. Once you have confirmation, the confirmation orderreleases the money to the -- the payees, the creditors,including the Government. QUESTION: How much of the -- how much of thetax liability did the Government receive during the courseof the first bankruptcy?MR. CLARK: In the Youngs' case, the Governmentdid not receive any payments whatsoever. The Youngs'Chapter lasted about -- just short of months. Theyhad not filed that tax case, that Chapter until and ahalf years after they had filed their tax return. They --but they did not receive any payment because we did notget to confirmation in the Youngs' case.QUESTION: Did you -- did you seek confirmation?MR. CLARK: The confirmation hearing had beenset by the court at the outset of the case, and it wasscheduled for November of --QUESTION: But it was -- it was the debtors'voluntary action that stopped the Government from gettingany payments under that plan. MR. CLARK: It was -- in this particular case,yes, Your Honor --QUESTION: Could the judge --MR. CLARK: -- for the -- because they had notgotten to confirmation. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: When the debtor asked to have theChapter dismissed, could the judge have said, I willenter the dismissal order, the closure order, but only oncondition that you do not attempt to assert a time bar,should you -- as everybody knew was -- that was going tohappen, go into a successive bankruptcy proceeding? Did-- would the judge have any authority to do that?MR. CLARK: Yes, Justice Ginsburg. Under, Ithink it's section of the Bankruptcy Code whichgoverns dismissals, the judge certainly has the authorityto put conditions upon the issuance of the dismissal.QUESTION: Well, then why is the dismissalautomatic, which is what we talked about at the veryfirst?MR. CLARK: Well, because the debtor -- I thinkthe procedural problem here is because the request -- therules, at least at the point of this request for dismissalwas -- was made, were a little vague as to how you requestor move for a dismissal.QUESTION: All right. MR. CLARK: But the debtor has the absoluteright to request the dismissal. The effect of the dismissal the judge can imposea condition on to say, well, yes, we're going to dismissthe case, but we're going to enter an order that says you th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC cannot count the months that the Youngs were inbankruptcy.QUESTION: Well, the debtor -- the debtor has aright to reject that condition and say, if that's thecondition, I don't want to dismiss, I assume. And ifthat's so, then the dismissal is not automatic. I mean,you can't have it both ways. MR. CLARK: I don't -- I think the --QUESTION: If he has a right to reject thatcondition, then once you say the judge may impose acondition, you have to say that -- that dismissal does notoccur automatically once you request it.MR. CLARK: I think in that --QUESTION: You can't have it both ways. MR. CLARK: I -- I'm not saying it's -- I thinkwhat I'm saying is that the court has the ability to put acondition on it. If the judge -- if the debtor doesn'twish to accept it, it's going to have to withdraw themotion to dismiss. QUESTION: Right, and we don't know, until thejudge enters an order of dismissal, whether he's going toput a condition on it. So, how can you say the dismissalis automatic as soon as you request it?MR. CLARK: I'm saying it's -- Justice Scalia,I'm saying it's automatic in the sense that the -- the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC debtor has an absolute right, quote/unquote -- and that'snot an absolutely absolute, but the debtor has a rightunder Chapter to have his case dismissed.QUESTION: No, but -- no, but you say he doesn'tbecause the judge can say, I'll let you dismiss it if. Whereupon, the debtor can say no -- no deal. So, it's notan absolute right. MR. CLARK: Well, it's -- I think it is anabsolute right or nearly so. I don't think that putting acondition on it makes it less of -- of an absolute rightto dismiss. QUESTION: But it doesn't mean that you can'tequate the date that you file the motion to dismiss withthe termination of the Chapter . It can't be. If thejudge could put a condition on it, then the -- the proceeding doesn't terminate until the closure order isentered.MR. CLARK: I think the -- well, I don't knowthat the judge could withhold or -- or delay the entry ofa dismissal order. It could put a condition on it thatthe time in Chapter won't count against the --QUESTION: Let's say we disagree with you and wefind --QUESTION: Have you cited any cases in whichthis kind of condition was imposed? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. CLARK: I do not know of any cases where, ina Chapter , a condition has been imposed. QUESTION: So, this is totally speculative,really, I think. I would assume if the -- if this problemhas occurred as many times as the Government says it has,and if the solution that you suggest is available, I wouldhave thought some judge would have thought of it. MR. CLARK: Well, I think no -- no judge isgoing to impose the condition I think under section unless the IRS comes in and makes a motion or brings it tothe attention of the court that --QUESTION: But then the lawyers have never hadenough sense to do this, as I understand it. (Laughter.) MR. CLARK: Well, they've gone a -- theGovernment I think has gone on a different track on -- onthis issue. QUESTION: The answer is no.MR. CLARK: The answer is no, Your Honor. QUESTION: In -- in all events, let's assumethat we think that the dismissal occurs in -- it would beMarch . Does the difference between October and Marchmake a difference in this case?MR. CLARK: No, it does not, Your Honor. QUESTION: All right. So, it doesn't make any th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC difference. MR. CLARK: This -- we got into this in thecourt of appeals a little bit, but it really makes nodifference whatsoever in the computation. QUESTION: Mr. Clark, can I get yourunderstanding of what you think would be manipulation? Because it may have something to do with my view of -- ofthis case. You don't assert that -- that somebody can gointo a Chapter proceeding with the -- with the avowedintent of not carrying it through to completion and ofdismissing it in order to get the benefit of -- of the --the shorter lookback. Suppose -- suppose I open a proceeding and Ihave no intention -- I propose a plan. I have nointention of completing that plan. I ask the court toapprove it. From the beginning, I have no intention of --of going through to the end of it. Isn't that a fraud onthe court? MR. CLARK: I would -- I would never -- I would-- I agree with you, Judge Scalia. It would be a -- anabuse of the bankruptcy process. QUESTION: And if that were shown, I supposethere's no doubt that the -- that the Bankruptcy Court inthe later proceeding could disallow the -- the shorteningof the lookback period because of that fraud. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. CLARK: Yes, Your Honor. QUESTION: Okay. So, we're talking here onlyabout cases in which someone in good faith, at least asfar as the IRS can approve, commences a proceeding, andthen for -- for some -- some plausible, good reason,before it is concluded, dismisses. Is that how you --MR. CLARK: Yes.QUESTION: -- understand the situation?MR. CLARK: Yes, it is. QUESTION: Whose burden is it to show that therewas some reason other than just getting advantage of theautomatic stay? Do you have to put in any evidence toshow that? I mean, you're suggesting -- I guess JusticeScalia's question -- that there should be a fact questionin every case as just what was the motivation of thepetitioner who file the Chapter proceeding. MR. CLARK: I think there has to be -- if -- ifsomebody is charging that there is an abuse, there has tobe some factual determination that there's an abuse. The-- under section , even the bankruptcy judge himself,sua sponte, can look at this and enter orders if hedetects abuse. And bankruptcy judges happen to be rathergood at this. They -- they see cases that emit an odor,if you will, and they are not reluctant to get involved inthat. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: So, suppose the bankruptcy proceedingis commenced with the intent ultimately of getting thedischarge, but there's also the intent to do it in twosteps. You say, I'm going to -- I want -- I want to getChapter or Chapter -- , but I'm just going to doit in two steps. Is -- is that -- that abuse of process?MR. CLARK: No, I don't believe so, JusticeKennedy. Here's what happened --QUESTION: I don't understand the question. QUESTION: The hypothetical is I -- the bankruptintends to get a bankruptcy discharge, but he also intendsto do it in two steps. He intends to have a Chapter ,wait for years, and then after a very short interval,refile under . And then hypo two is under .I take it you can do it under ? Couldn't youhave two successive ?MR. CLARK: You could have -- you could have --QUESTION: And your argument would be the same.MR. CLARK: Yes, Your Honor, it would --QUESTION: In either of those cases, would that-- would that be abuse of process in your view?MR. CLARK: Not in my view, Justice Kennedy, andhere -- here is why. If you're going to go -- if you'regoing to go into Chapter and stay there for years,you're going to get a plan confirmed during the course of th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC those years. You better, sure as heck, get a planconfirmed during those years. And you will be -- oncethe plan is confirmed, payments are going to be made tothe IRS for those years. It may or may not pay off thedebt to the IRS in full during the years, but it is thedebtor's best effort, according to the Chapter , to bepaying those dollars. So, it's not as though the IRS isgetting nothing in this -- in that hypothetical situation.QUESTION: But if -- if taxes had been paidduring the Chapter proceeding, wouldn't they have tohave been returned on the dismissal of that proceeding? MR. CLARK: If there -- Justice O'Connor, ifthere were no confirmation order entered prior to thedismissal --QUESTION: Right, as was the case here.MR. CLARK: -- which was the Youngs' case. Yes.QUESTION: As was the case here. So, presumablyeven if something had been paid in for the taxes, theywould have been given back on the dismissal.MR. CLARK: Yes. The magic moment in Chapter is the entry of the confirmation order, and once theconfirmation order is entered, whatever plan payments thetrustee has already accumulated, because the --QUESTION: Well, why -- why do you think it'simproper to equitably toll that lookback period for this th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC situation? MR. CLARK: I -- I do not think it is proper atall to -- I -- there are several reasons why I think it'simproper. First of all, the language of the statute itselfis very plain and straightforward and has no provision forequitable tolling or any tolling. QUESTION: We have held that equitable tollingapplies in similar statutes which have no provision forequitable tolling. MR. CLARK: Yes, I'm -- I -- I know that the --I know that you have, Mr. Chief Justice.QUESTION: Well, I -- I thought your point is --one of your points was that statutes of limitations aredifferent from this, that this is not a statute oflimitations. MR. CLARK: It's -- my point is that it is --this is a part of the definition of which taxes can bedischarged in bankruptcy. There are several time elementsto defining which taxes can be discharged in bankruptcy. There is this -year lookback period. There is a -yearperiod where a taxpayer has filed a return late and thenwe go to a -year lookback. And then there's a third -day period that the taxpayer/debtor must satisfy and thatis days from the date of assessment. Now, the debtor th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC must meet all three of these to be able to discharge thetaxes. In the Youngs' case, the taxes were assessedpromptly, about and a half months after they filed theirtax return. They clearly met that one. The -- they didnot file a late return because they got extensions to filetheir return in October of . So, they -- that onedoesn't apply. And the only one in question in thisparticular case then is the -year, and how do you measure years and do you toll the years for the period of theprior Chapter .QUESTION: Mr. Clark, is the Government correctin -- in pointing out that the debtor here could, insteadof seeking dismissal of the and starting a , simplyhave moved to convert the into a ? Is that correct?MR. CLARK: That is correct, Your Honor. QUESTION: If -- if the debtor had done that,the -year period would continue to have been calculatedas it originally was under the Chapter proceeding. MR. CLARK: Yes, Justice Souter, that iscorrect.QUESTION: Would -- would it have been error if-- if the judge or any judge in a case like this, when --when confronted with a motion or a request to dismiss,simply questioned the debtor whether it was the debtor's th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC intent to start a Chapter proceeding, and if the answerwas yes, for the judge simply to say, well, I will treatyour motion as a motion for a conversion and we'll grantthat? Would that have been error on the judge's part?MR. CLARK: I think it would be error for ajudge to take a motion to dismiss a Chapter and make ita chapter -- and say, we are going to make it instead aChapter case. QUESTION: Even when the debtor says, yes, myplan, my intent is to -- is to initiate Chapter proceedings. MR. CLARK: Yes. Justice Souter --QUESTION: The -- I take it the only harm to thedebtor in that case would simply be the -- the argumentabout the -year lookback because the debtor would begetting exactly otherwise exactly what the debtor wanted,i.e., a Chapter filing.MR. CLARK: Yes, Justice Souter. But keep inmind in the -- in the case of either dismissal orconversion, in the example in the Government's brief, the-- it does not do any good to seek conversion -- I'm sorry-- to dismiss and then refile unless you're toward the endof the -year period in any event. So that when the caseis dismissed, now the -year period has expired, and nowyou go the next day and you file your Chapter , saying, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC well, I've been -- it's been now more than years sincethe filing of the return.QUESTION: Yes.MR. CLARK: But in the meantime, of course, theplan payments are being made, hopefully, to the Governmentand to other creditors for the years and however manymonths. QUESTION: Well, that -- that's so. But, Imean, even in the case in which there has been aconfirmation under -- under the Chapter and planpayments have been made, it may very well be that theamount of tax liability that has actually been paid couldbe minuscule, so that it would be very much in thedebtor's interest to -- to start a new Chapter and savewhatever the balance due is on the taxes. MR. CLARK: Well, except that, Justice Souter,the problem is that the tax payments are not going to beminuscule during the Chapter .QUESTION: Well, whether they're minuscule ornot, if they're not percent, the debtor still gainssomething by going -- so far as the Federal taxes areconcerned, by dismissing and starting a Chapter becausewhatever the balance due is, in -- on the facts of a caselike this, the -- the debtor is going to -- going toobtain. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. CLARK: That is correct, Justice Souter. But again, I would point to the fact that the Governmentis getting something. It may not get the whole amount. And in tax collection in general, apart from bankruptcy,even when bankruptcy is not in the picture at all, the waythe Government is trying to collect taxes is throughinstallment payments as the Youngs --QUESTION: Well, that's right. But I think theGovernment's answer to that is unless we, in fact, make acompromise agreement, we're entitled to cents on thedollar. And the -- the fact that -- that the Governmentmay get cents on the dollar before you go from to I -- I don't think really disparages the Government'sargument any. QUESTION: Or it can be, as it was here, theGovernment got nothing. QUESTION: The Government got nothing.MR. CLARK: The Government did get nothing inthis situation, Justice Ginsburg, for the months.QUESTION: And would there -- in -- in this verycase where the Chapter was started the day before theChapter was closed, was there any advantage, other thanwiping out the lookback period, to instituting twoproceedings rather than having the converted to a ?MR. CLARK: Well, the reason the Chapter was th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC filed was because I think other creditors were descendingupon the Youngs. They had dismissed their Chapter backin October, and that, of course, put everybody back intothe status quo ante, except with respect to the sale oftheir house, of course. But the creditors now were free,once the case has been dismissed, to come forward again.QUESTION: Well, we're getting into filingversus dismissal.MR. CLARK: Yes. QUESTION: But if -- if we take the order of thecourt as what counts, there wouldn't have been any periodin which other creditors could have jumped in because theChapter hadn't yet been closed. So, from the point of view of the debtors here,was there any advantage that they gained other than wipingout the lookback period? MR. CLARK: With -- with the filing of theChapter , they obviously gained the advantage also ofeliminating their other debts.QUESTION: I mean, when they got to the point ofsaying we're not going to make it under this plan, sowe're going to have to quit the , at that point theycould have done -- either asked for conversion to orstarted a new proceeding. Is there any difference fromtheir viewpoint other than they'd get the benefit under a th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC reading of the statute of putting the Government out ofthe picture because the -year lookback has run?MR. CLARK: I'm not quite sure I understand thequestion, that they -- Justice Ginsburg. I think they --they get the -- when they -- when they dismiss and thenrefile, they obviously get the benefit of dischargingtheir other taxes in -- their other debts, non-tax debts.QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. Clark. Ms. Millett, we'll hear from you. ORAL ARGUMENT OF PATRICIA A. MILLETTON BEHALF OF THE UNITED STATESMS. MILLETT: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court:I would like to address first the -- there'sbeen some discussion about protections that maybe or maybecould not occur in a Chapter proceeding to prevent the-- the Government from losing its claim. And in fact,that rarely, if ever, is capable of happening because wedon't know -- debtors don't telegraph to us at the timethey're in Chapter or dismissing their Chapter --that they plan to file a second bankruptcy. And if youdon't know that's going to happen, you can't prove badfaith. You can't ask for conditions, or it would bevirtually impossible to do that.QUESTION: Well, sure you can. You can ask the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC bankruptcy judge to inquire and -- and say if -- if thatis the plan, Your Honor, we -- we request that it not bedismissed but rather converted. MS. MILLETT: I think --QUESTION: Or that that be a condition of -- ofthe dismissal that you not -- that you not refile.MS. MILLETT: I think there's two difficultieswith that approach, and the first that it would be anenormous burden in every Chapter case that is filed andthen sought to be dismissed -- and an awful lot -- thevast majority are -- to have that inquiry undertaken. And secondly, there is -- there is no authorityunder the code that we're aware of that allows a court tocondition -- a voluntary dismissal, which they have as ofright, on willingness to forego a discharge in a futurebankruptcy proceeding. QUESTION: But, I mean, let's assume someone hasin all good faith commenced a Chapter and has in allgood faith dismissed it because, part the way through it,said, you know, I think I can make it on my own now, and-- and then, you know, sometime after that, decides, no, Ican't make it and -- and files another bankruptcyproceeding under . No bad faith. You would still wantto alter the -year lookback in the statute to make it --to make it what? years or whatever. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MS. MILLETT: We would -- we would want the-year lookback period to tolled during the time theautomatic stay prevented us --QUESTION: That's not what the statute says. There's no fraud here. There's -- there's nothing goingon. You're just saying here's a loophole in the tax lawor the bankruptcy law, that aspect of the bankruptcy lawdealing with taxes. I'll call it a tax loophole. Andyou're saying, you know, courts, repair this loophole. That's not what courts normally do. MS. MILLETT: Well, as the Chief --QUESTION: I mean, that's the fun of practicingtax law. (Laughter.) QUESTION: Bankruptcy law. QUESTION: You take all the joy out of it. (Laughter.) MS. MILLETT: That's what we do. As the Chief -- as the Chief Justice pointedout, in fact, equitable tolling -- in virtually every casethat I'm aware of, equitable tolling is applied when thestatute is silent, and in fact when it may providespecifically for tolling in other circumstances, asoccurred in Bowen v. City of New York and AmericanPipefitters v. Utah. And equitable tolling has not -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC never been held to turn upon the existence of bad faith.QUESTION: This is not equitable tolling in --in the statute of limitations sense. What is involvedhere is not the termination period for bringing a cause ofaction, but rather the quite different question of whentaxes will be discharged and when they don't. Congressprovided for, you know, a -year lookback. In somecircumstances, they get the benefit of -- of less thanthat if -- if they brought the two -- but at least, wherethere's been no fraud, at least where you haven't beenable to show that -- that they were gaming the systemintentionally, I don't see why equity should -- shouldcome -- there is legislation pending to close this gap,isn't there? MS. MILLETT: There is and there has been for anumber of --QUESTION: Well, I don't know why we don't leaveit to Congress. MS. MILLETT: Well, Your Honor, there's --there's a number of responses to that. And the first iswe would respectfully disagree that this is notsufficiently analogous or akin to a statute of limitationsthat the First Circuit described in this case to meritequitable tolling. A time period does not have to be astatute of limitations to be tolled. In Zipes v. TWA, in th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Honda v. Clark, this Court has applied equitable tollingto other types of time limitations, and within thebankruptcy context, which is a specialized context, thislookback period has the same operation and effect as atraditional statute of limitations. It prevents theassertion of stale claims, stale claims defined as onesthat the Government has allowed to linger. It -- itextinguishes a claim if the period does lapse aseffectively as a bar on the time limitations. QUESTION: It doesn't extinguish it. The -- theGovernment is just thrown in with the other -- with theother creditors, isn't it? I mean --MS. MILLETT: Well, this --QUESTION: -- they may come out without anymoney, but it's just -- the -- the question is whether theGovernment is going to have the preferred position of nothaving its debt discharged. It will be thrown in with theother general creditors. MS. MILLETT: That's not entirely correct,Justice Scalia, for -- for -- in two ways. First of all,there are two -- there are two aspects to the priority. There's a priority as against other creditors, but what isat issue here, and again what is at issue in virtually allof these Chapter cases, or these no -- no-asset Chapter cases, is the discharge. That's what's at issue here, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC and the discharge is -- does extinguish a claim as much asa bar on -- on filing. QUESTION: Well, I know, but it -- but itdischarges the Government's claim just the way itdischarges the general creditors' claims. The Governmentis thrown into that pot instead of having the preferredposition that you can pay off everybody else cents onthe dollar, but not the Government. All that happens isthe Government goes in with the other creditors. Isn'tthat --MS. MILLETT: Taxes have always been different. And the -- the treatment of this is simply a -year ---year period that -- that the debtor has to run out, andit doesn't afford the Government any capacity to enforcethe claim would be, I think, an extraordinary assumptionon the part of Congress. QUESTION: Well, what is your -- what is yourmain argument? Is it to ask us to apply the principle ofequitable tolling to this section lookback provision?MS. MILLETT: Section .QUESTION: Yes. MS. MILLETT: Yes, that is -- that is our --that is our submission. The Congress --QUESTION: And what's your best case for that?MS. MILLETT: The body of equitable tolling th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC cases, but the most analogous one I think is Honda v.Clark -- Clark and Burnett v. New York Central Railroad,both of which are cited in our brief. Honda v. Clarkinvolved not a traditional statute of limitations, but thetime for filing proofs of claim under the Trading with theEnemy Act, which was specifically modeled on theBankruptcy Act. And there -- there the Court held that itwould be equitably -- equitably -- the time period wouldbe equitably tolled --QUESTION: Why isn't that a traditional statuteof limitations? MS. MILLETT: I'm sorry? QUESTION: Why isn't that a traditional statuteof limitations? Your claim is invalid unless you file itwithin a certain period.MS. MILLETT: Well, within the bankruptcycontext, in fact a claim can still be paid as long as it'son the schedules. The filing of a proof of claim doesnot --QUESTION: No, I'm not talking about this case. I'm talking about the case you're citing us as -- as beinganalogous to this one. You said it didn't involve atraditional statute of limitations. Why did that notinvolve a traditional --MS. MILLETT: The -- the reasoning of the Court th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC in Honda v. Clark was -- was that Congress modeled -- theproof of claim there may have been closer to an actualstatute of limitations, but the rationale the Courtapplied was looking to the treatment of proofs of claim inthe Bankruptcy Code, and that was the analogy thatCongress was drawing at the time it enacted the Tradingwith the Enemy statute, and that those proofs of claim --it was in the bankruptcy context --QUESTION: Maybe, but Trading with the Enemystatute itself contained what was a statute oflimitations, and in the case at hand, we were equitablytolling what was effectively a statute of limitations.What's your other best case? MS. MILLETT: And Nassau Smelting v. RefiningWorks, which is discussed in Honda v. Clark, was abankruptcy case where the proof of claim was not fileduntil a year after the deadline and the Court allowedparticipation nonetheless. And again, it's the nature ofthe proof of claim that's --QUESTION: Those are also -- the difficult issueI think in this case is exactly what Justice Scalia hasbeen saying, that this isn't a traditional statute oflimitations. You have to do one of two things. Youeither have to say the word years shall be read yearsplus days tolled. That's one thing you could do. Or the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC second thing you could do is you could look to (a) andyou could say that the order that can be issued is anorder pay money -- this is in the section -- pay moneyas if this were the section that hadn't been dismissed.Now, both of those, the question would be, does-- does the judge have the authority to do that? Andlooking simply to statute of limitations provisionsdoesn't answer that question. It -- it provokes thequestion. It proves you might be right, but -- but theworrying thing is whether you can just stick those wordsin, either plus days tolled, or read (a) in so broad amanner. So, those are the -- I'd like to know whatshould we do and what's the authority for that. MS. MILLETT: To take the first -- the first --first scenario first, the proposition for reading the-year lookback period as years plus --QUESTION: Plus days tolled. MS. MILLETT: years plus. In deciding whatthe character of the lookback period is, whether it's akinto the statute of --QUESTION: Could you speak up a little bit, Ms.Millett? MS. MILLETT: In deciding what the -- thecharacter of the lookback period is, equitable tolling th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC does apply in Zipes in filing a proof of -- filing of aclaim with the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission. There the Court described it as similar to a statute oflimitations, but it was not a statute of limitations. So,equitable tolling does not require --QUESTION: Which case was that? MS. MILLETT: Zipes v. TW -- Trans WorldAirlines.That does not require the presence in the actualstatute of limitations. It has to be a time limit. Ifthe question is whether Congress would have intended thattype of time limit to be subject to tolling principles. And the -- we can either assume the lookback period wouldhave for many of the policy reasons that have beendiscussed -- the -- the conclusion that results if wedecide that it is not something that Congress would haveintended to be subject to equitable tolling is that the-year lookback period is an empty gesture as far asprotecting the Government. The Congress --QUESTION: You have no problem convincing meabout what I'd call the equitable merits of your side. The problem you have, as far as I'm concerned, is how towork, which route do we take and what's the authority fordoing it, just what I asked in the first place. MS. MILLETT: And that is I think -- and it's th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC both prongs of your -- of your question. It is -- wethink that the nature of the time limitation issufficiently similar within the bankruptcy context. Thisis how you enforce claims within the bankruptcy context. QUESTION: Well, I don't think it is similar. I-- I -- I mean, the only thing -- the only respect inwhich it's similar is that it involves time, but all ofthe other cases that -- that you refer us to, the statuteof limitations proper, Zipes, they're all cases in whichaction by the party seeking to enforce something islimited by a period of time. He has to do it within acertain time or else it's no good. Now, whether you callit proof of claim or anything else, that's -- that's thescenario. In this case, it's -- it's not a matter ofwhether the Government has filed in time at all. Thislookback is quite a -- quite a different animal. It's howfar back you -- you can go in -- in deciding which claimscannot be discharged in bankruptcy. Now, it involves time. I guess, if you thinkthat's enough of a commonality, then -- then I'd agree,but gee, I -- I don't think that's enough to -- to make methink that we have the -- the authority by long traditionto rewrite a statute so that where it says months, it'sgoing to be months -- years, it's going to be on our th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC authority years plus some other period of time.MS. MILLETT: I think this is exactly thesituation that you described. It's like a typical statuteof limitations, and that is unless the Government takesaction within years to enforce its claim, unless it actswithin those years, it will, for all intents andpurposes and all practical purposes, within the uniquecontext of bankruptcy proceedings, have no claim left. Itwill be discharged. There's nothing --QUESTION: But it's not a limitation on theGovernment's action within -- it doesn't say theGovernment has to act within years. It says when youhave a bankruptcy proceeding, you look back only years. It has nothing to do with how soon the Government has tocome forward. The Government has absolutely no controlover that lookback.QUESTION: If the Government comes forward after years, it loses. MS. MILLETT: That's right. It eliminates --and the legislative history describes this quite -- fromCongress' vantage point that this was an enforcementperiod, a collection time, and that -- that if the -- itwould eliminate stale claims, which this Court said inZipes is one of the purposes of a statute of limitations. It would -- it would extinguish liability if the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Government doesn't act within the particular period oftime, which again is akin to a traditional statute oflimitations. The --QUESTION: I have one -- one technical question. I should know the answer. Suppose before the Chapter proceeding is commenced, the Government says, oh, we'vegot a lot of taxes here and this debtor may file Chapter. Can you file a lien against his property whichsomehow protects you? MS. MILLETT: If we -- if we have assessed thetaxes, which in itself requires a -day period as amatter of law, but if we have assessed the taxes, which wehad here, we can go file a notice of federal tax lienwhich would protect us. What happened in this case --QUESTION: And that would protect you.MS. MILLETT: That would protect us, but it'simportant to keep in mind how tax collection works. TheIRS, as a matter of policy and as a matter of somestatutory provisions, tends not to descend immediatelyupon taxpayers the second there's a liability. In this case, we had been working with theYoungs, and they had been making some payments. And it'sroutine for us to try voluntary compliance. It's goodpolicy and that's what we do, and it wasn't -- we tried th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC to --QUESTION: If you -- if you imposed a lien,could you still work with the taxpayer? The lien doesn'tprohibit you from trying to work it out, does it?MS. MILLETT: We -- we could have, but itcertainly has some consequences for -- for the taxpayer. And -- and again we -- we try -- we try to work thesethings out without going to that sort of adversarial levelof proceedings. And there had been payments being madehere.But if I could get back to Justice Breyer's --QUESTION: And just -- just so I get thetechnical --MS. MILLETT: Sure. QUESTION: But once the Chapter proceedingcommences, you --MS. MILLETT: We cannot impose --QUESTION: -- cannot impose a lien.MS. MILLETT: Absolutely not. That's part ofthe automatic stay. If I could get back to Justice Breyer'squestion. What we think is important here is -- is the --the combination of the two factors that you discussed isthat this is sufficiently like a statute of limitations,and Congress intended it to operate like a statute of th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC limitations, and it does operate like a statute oflimitations within the bankruptcy context. And we'vecombined that with the unique equitable powers thebankruptcy courts have and the unique operation ofequitable principles within the bankruptcy context. So,it's not an either/or. I think the combination of thoseis a sufficient reason as to why tolling of this lookbackperiod would be appropriate. QUESTION: Ms. Millett, Mr. Clark said in hisbrief that, well, if you're going to do this for taxes,the same logic would apply to wage claims that have apriority. What else did he say? Employee benefit claims. Is that -- is that so?MS. MILLETT: Those are the only two nontaxprovisions that have these type of --QUESTION: So, could you --MS. MILLETT: -- lookback periods. And I -- I'massuming that it would, in fact, apply. I -- I haven'tanalyzed -- the same analysis would apply and assumingthat the same congressional purpose would be shown and theconsistency of congressional purpose to apply equitabletolling -- it would apply there. It doesn't actually happen to be a problem inthat area because those -- for two reasons. Those typesof -- those two claims involve very, very short time th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC limits, and days, not years. And so, in order toavail themselves of this procedural roundabout, they wouldhave to file two bankruptcy proceedings very closely ontop of each other, and that just doesn't happen. QUESTION: Well, as they did here. MS. MILLETT: No. I mean, they would have tofile their first one, and then within months to get outof the days, you'd have to file another one. This --the first one lasted I guess approximately months. QUESTION: Ms. Millett, there is legislationpending to do what? How is it drafted?MS. MILLETT: It -- it is drafted to provide fortolling of the lookback period during the pendency of --during the time an automatic stay in a prior bankruptcycase.what?QUESTION: As an amendment to section orMS. MILLETT: I think it's to section , whichis -- (a)(), which is what provides the lookbackperiod itself. But that legislation --QUESTION: Is it part of the overall BankruptcyCode revision?MS. MILLETT: It is. It has not been --QUESTION: You know, the big bill. MS. MILLETT: The big bill. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: Which may or may not go anywhere.MS. MILLETT: Which may or may not go. Thereare -- there is -- there are, you know, different billsbefore Congress. They've both been passed. Confereeshave been appointed. They aren't fighting over thisprovision, but there are lots of other provisions thatthey are in disagreement over. I also think it's important to keep in mind what-- what we would have to assume Congress intended were weto read the lookback period as something not subject totolling. Now, there have been some suggestions thatpeople like to avail themselves of tax loopholes. That'susually done to decide how much taxes you owe. What we're talking about here is an admittedacknowledged tax liability that they want to get out ofpaying and that -- that we want to hold that -- thatdebtor --QUESTION: Well, if you were the lawyer for theGovernment faced with a taxpayer that had a big taxliability and it looked like bankruptcy might be looming,what would you advise the Government to do?MS. MILLETT: Depending on this Court's holding,there -- I have to say in all candor the volume -- thesheer volume of cases that the IRS handles in bankruptcymakes much -- and it's handled often at the initial th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC stages, as it was here, not by lawyers, but by specialagents in the bankruptcy proceeding. I think we wouldhave to go to a system where we would go to the tax liensimmediately, but that's not what --QUESTION: No doubt, but absence that, what isthe best way for the Government to protect itself, do youthink? MS. MILLETT: To immediately as soon -- as soonas they assess, immediately file a tax lien. And -- andthat's -- normally we go -- there are administrative --other administrative means of collection. We try to workthings out. We have offers in compromise, and there's noreason that Congress would have intended our tax system togo that way and to be driven by these bankruptcyprocedures. Again, to get back, we're talking about whetherthe lookback period --QUESTION: Well, that's how they wrote it. I --I mean, you say -- Congress often does not enact perfectstatutes. It -- it leaves some holes that it should havethought about and -- and we don't normally think it's ourjob to patch it up. I -- I agree with you. I -- I findit unlikely that Congress intended this to work this way,but it is just one of the eventualities that they didn'thave in mind, and that's why we have things called th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC statutory amendments. We -- we don't run to the courtsand ask the courts to fix them. And -- and I'm just very leery of extending our-- our powers, the equitable powers that we've used in thepast, for extending statute of limitations, tollingstatute of limitations to this quite different situationof a lookback. I -- and there are other lookbacks in theInternal Revenue Code and there are other time provisions,and I -- I'm not willing to say whenever there's a timeprovision, it's an invitation to us, if -- if Congresshasn't foreseen every problem, to adjust it.MS. MILLETT: I think -- I think that given theequitable powers of bankruptcy courts, most of those --many of those time limits are in fact considered to besubject to equitable tolling that are in the BankruptcyCode, although I don't know that this Court, other thanthe proof of claim context, has ruled on the question. But in deciding -- Congress legislated againstbackdrop principles of equitable tolling. In decidingwhether this is the type of thing that should be subjectedto equitable tolling, this Court made clear in AmericanPipe & Construction v. Utah that it's a question of -- ofcongressional intent, not whether you think the provisionis substantive or procedural. And we think congressional intent drawn from the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC structure of the statute, the network of tollingprovisions, limitations on filings, conversion rules, tothink that all of those were put in by Congress not toprotect the Government's enforcement period but simply tochannel debtors into one particular procedural route fornot paying taxes is a highly unlikely assumption. And to think that Congress would -- to read thelookback period as intentionally empowering debtors not tofight about how much taxes they owe, but to take anadmitted tax liability and say that because of what we doin bankruptcy, not because of anything the Government didin becoming a creditor or in enforcing its claim, we getto decide that you will not have prioritized status. Youwill have, in some cases, not a minute of enforcementactivity, and we don't have to pay our taxes. That makesthe Government not like other creditors at all, not at thesame level, but in the -- the States and FederalGovernments will be in the worst position of anyone inbankruptcy. We don't get to choose our debtors. We don'tget to seek the security in advance, and we will have nocapacity to enforce, other than at the mercy of the debtorwho initiates these proceedings. And I think -- I understand this isn't a perfectfit with the statute of limitations, but I think takingthose considerations and the -- the consequences of th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC accepting the alternative view of the lookback period, theimplausible assumptions that would assume Congress madeand the implausibility of this operation of the statute asa whole combined with the traditional equitable powers ofBankruptcy Court and the role of equity in theseproceedings, all of that packaged together is sufficientto allow this Court to toll a lookback period andeffectuate Congress' intent, which -- which is --QUESTION: May I ask you a question about yourview of the automatic tolling statute? As I understandthis case, the notice of dismissal of the Chapter proceeding was filed in October, and the actual dismissalwas not until March of the following year. And it wasthe day before that that they filed the Chapter so there--MS. MILLETT: That's right. QUESTION: -- was the base of their changingtheir mind or something like that. Is it your view that the automatic stay was ineffect between October and March?MS. MILLETT: Absolutely, and --QUESTION: Because I think your opponent seemedto suggest maybe that wasn't so. MS. MILLETT: Right. In (b), which is theprovision that allows automatic -- it's U.S.C. -- that th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC allows voluntary dismissal by the debtor, provides thatthe -- that the debtor may -- may ask the court, but thatthe court shall dismiss the case. And so, until a casehas been dismissed or closed, neither of which would havehappened under this provision until March, or a dischargehas been granted, which obviously did not happen in thiscase, the automatic stay remains in effect. And we wereunable to do any -- take any steps to enforce our claim.QUESTION: And is it true that in this casethere was some kind of report filed on February ? So,there was activity in the case. MS. MILLETT: There was. A trustee had filed areport, and there had been -- the court set time when itgot the -- the notice, it set the time for the hearing onthis or time for action on this. So, it was in fact --and again, if -- if we're going to suppose that courts canimpose conditions on these dismissals, that would againrequire -- assume that the case is alive and is stillbefore the court. But I think the statute is quite clear that it-- that the debtor doese not dismiss the case; the courtdoes. And that didn't happen until March. And again --QUESTION: Are you aware of any cases of thiskind in which the court has imposed a condition relating th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC to this problem? MS. MILLETT: No, and again because I think thestatute doesn't --QUESTION: Doesn't authorize.MS. MILLETT: I don't want to say it doesn't incase we get to some situation where we might want to try,but it doesn't seem to -- clearly to allow that and Ithink it would be extraordinary reading of the BankruptcyCode to think that a court can impose, as a condition on avoluntary dismissal that's entirely within the discretionof the debtor to seek.QUESTION: Well, that --MS. MILLETT: We do not accept --QUESTION: That -- that brings me to thisquestion. Suppose I thought that section (a) was thebest basis for an authority for a tolling rule under theabuse of process. Would it follow that the tolling rulehas to be on a case-by-case basis to determine if they'regood faith, or can I say because of abuse of process,we're going to have a general tolling rule? MS. MILLETT: The Court has the authority toimpose uniform rules of equitable tolling. It did that inthe Burnett v. New York transportation case. That was aFederal employer liability action --QUESTION: But is that consistent with my th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC assumed approach of just hinging the rule on the abuse ofprocess?MS. MILLETT: I think what it would beconsistent -- equitable tolling as -- equitable estoppeltends on the behavior of bad faith of the person who's --QUESTION: Yes. MS. MILLETT: -- here the -- the debtor. Equitable tolling turns upon the legal disabilitiesimposed on the person who wants to enforce their claim. And that isn't going to change from case to case, as inBowen v. City of New York where this Court again applied aclass-wide rule of tolling because the Government'sactions with the Social Security plaintiffs in that casehad been the same.QUESTION: Your argument doesn't hinge on badfaith, anyway, as I understand it. MS. MILLETT: No. No, it doesn't. QUESTION: You -- you assert that -- thatwithout the tolling, we would frustrate Congress' intenteven where there has been no bad faith, that Congresswould not have intended where there's good faith to givethe person an added -- an added couple of years of -- ofno taxes.MS. MILLETT: Of no taxes or to get out ofpaying their taxes or to relegate the Government to this th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC lowest subsidiary position within the bankruptcy process.But uniform rules have been applied by thisCourt when that circumstance doesn't change, and in thiscase for purposes of equitable tolling, what's not goingto change is that the Government hasn't had the timeCongress gave it in the statute. That's going to be thesame. Beyond that, amount of tax liability shouldn'tmatter. That's a judgment for -- for Congress and theGovernment to take. It's not -- it shouldn't -- equitabletolling shouldn't turn upon that, and the bad faith orgood faith of the taxpayer wouldn't be determinative. And in that regard, I think it's important tokeep in mind that if we had a test where we had to showbad faith in every one of these cases, again we're talkingabout an enormous volume of bankruptcy cases. And -- andshowing -- in those -- in those circuits where they haveapplied this sort of case-by-case equitable tolling, theGovernment has had to be very selective in which cases itdecides to make that showing, giving a lot of people apass on taxes. And those proceedings can take to months. You have to have discovery and full-blownhearings on people's faith and intentions and that reallyis not what the purpose of the Bankruptcy Code is for.QUESTION: Ms. Millett, would you remind me? I th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC think that Congress wanted the Government to have years,and that was a cutting back on what the Government hadbefore. Right? MS. MILLETT: Absolutely.QUESTION: They said, we gave you too much. We're now giving you years. MS. MILLETT: Absolutely, and that's why I thinkit -- it's extraordinary to think that Congress --Congress went to the steps that you would have to decide,if you decide this is not a collection period and akin toa statute of limitations, because prior to , these taxclaims, regardless of age, were all entitled to priorityand were all nondischargeable. And what Congress did in was decide it was going to balance competinginterests within the bankruptcy process and condition theGovernment's entitlement to that special status on itsdiligent enforcement of those tax claims. And that is whyit's like a statute of limitations. But to hold otherwise is to say that whatCongress went to in was a situation where everythingwas protected to where nothing is protected except at thesole discretion and choice of the debtor proceeding inbankruptcy. The Government will be left with no capacity. We can't choose our -- we can't choose our debtors, and wewill -- and they have the entire authority to prevent any th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC enforcement. And we're not just talking about enforcementof claims that arose before they filed bankruptcy. If youhave bankruptcy proceedings that go on for more than years, as many do, this -- this rule would apply to taxclaims that arose while the case was in bankruptcy and the years ran. And that in fact is what has happened in a casewe have pending in the Fifth Circuit. If they candischarge not just the things that you may have had a fewmonths before -- or a year before the bankruptcy wasfiled, tax claims that we have never had a millisecondoutside the freedom of the automatic stay to enforce willbe extinguished, not because of anything the Governmentdid or did not do, but solely because of the proceduralsteps taken by the debtor in Bankruptcy Court. And we think it's extraordinary to think thatthat's what Congress did and intended to do in . The-- it went for that transformation. And statutes aren'tto be construed to assume that Congress would imperilState or Federal revenues. QUESTION: Of course, I don't think anybodysuggests that Congress intended the result. The questionreally is whether -- assume we know exactly what Congressintended. Do we have the authority to fill a gap in thestatute anyway without, you know, the express text? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MS. MILLETT: And I think equitable tolling,particularly in the context of traditional equity courtslike bankruptcy and traditional equity proceedings, isappropriate. Again, in American Pipe, this -- thank you.CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: Thank you, Ms.Millett.The case is submitted. (Whereupon, at : a.m., the case in theabove-entitled matter was submitted.) th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC 