 IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XCITY OF LOS ANGELES, Petitioner ::v. : No. -ALAMEDA BOOKS, INC., ET AL. :- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XWashington, D.C.Tuesday, December , The above-entitled matter came on for oralargument before the Supreme Court of the United States at: a.m.APPEARANCES:MICHAEL L. KLEKNER, ESQ., Deputy City Attorney, LosAngeles, California; on behalf of the Petitioner.JOHN H. WESTON, ESQ., Los Angeles, California; on behalfof the Respondent. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC C O N T E N T SORAL ARGUMENT OF MICHAEL L. KLEKNER, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioner ORAL ARGUMENT OFJOHN H. WESTON, ESQ.On behalf of the Respondent REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OFMICHAEL L. KLEKNER, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioner PAGE th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC P R O C E E D I N G S(: a.m.)CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: We'll hear argumentnow in Number -, the City of Los Angeles v. AlamedaBooks, Inc.Mr. Klekner.ORAL ARGUMENT OF MICHAEL L. KLEKNERON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERMR. KLEKNER: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court:Following its pioneering study, the City ofLos Angeles enacted a, in a comprehensive zoningordinance regulating the location of all types of adultbusiness activities in the city. The ordinance definedeight business activities and required that they each beseparated from each other by , feet.Notwithstanding the clear intent of the city'sordinance in , it became apparent that the ordinancecould and was being interpreted to permit more than oneadult business in the same building. This has beendescribed by plaintiffs as a drafting error inadvertentloophole, but it was an ambiguity, and it became necessaryto amend the ordinance in to remove that ambiguity,thereby --QUESTION: Do we know if, at the time the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ordinance was enacted -- ?MR. KLEKNER: ', sir.QUESTION: '. Do we know if, at that time,there were businesses like the one at issue here, i.e., aplace where they have both sale and rental and viewing --MR. KLEKNER: I presume --QUESTION: Do we know if those businessesexisted in that form in ?MR. KLEKNER: I believe they did. I don'tbelieve --QUESTION: All right.MR. KLEKNER: -- that the study specificallyanalyzed specific combinations in one building.QUESTION: All right.MR. KLEKNER: That wasn't the purpose of thestudy.QUESTION: Well, your clients didn't havebusinesses like that. Your clients just had one or theother, wasn't it? What did they start off with?QUESTION: I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry.MR. KLEKNER: Our clients are innocent.(Laughter.)QUESTION: The businesses regulated here did notoffer both. Which did they offer when the ordinance wasinitially passed? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. KLEKNER: I'm sorry, I did not hear thequestion entirely, sir.QUESTION: When the ordinance was initiallypassed, which of the two types of business did they offer?MR. KLEKNER: Well, these businesses started inthe late eighties, early 's, either as a bookstore oras an adult arcade.QUESTION: That's what I'm asking, which --which?MR. KLEKNER: But it was well after the adoptionof the ordinance.QUESTION: Which did they start as, a bookstore,or as an arcade?MR. KLEKNER: My recollection is that each -- Ithink it was Highland Books started as a adult arcade, andthe reverse was true for Alameda Books. It started as abookstore.QUESTION: Did your evidence in ' or anyevidence since then specifically address the question ofwhether the combination of more than one form of businessat one location has any measurable effect on, you know,the deleterious effect that you measured?MR. KLEKNER: No. The studies did notspecifically look at combination of adult businesses inone place, or in one building. They looked at the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC clustering effect in the city's various communities.QUESTION: Am I wrong in thinking that the studywhich you rely on, the study, did have as onecategory bookstore/arcade. It had as discrete entitiesthe massage parlors, the adult theaters, and the adultmotels, but it was my understanding that the arcade plusbookstore, or video sales shops, that those were togetherin that study.MR. KLEKNER: The answer is yes and no. Thatphrase appears several times in the study and in certainconclusions, but if you look at the -- at certain of thequestionnaires that were sent out to various businesses,community groups, the individual businesses wereseparately identified. In other words, a bookstore, peepshows, movie theaters, theaters, massage parlors.QUESTION: Well then, is there nothing to whatwe're told, that the -- this combination of video salesplus viewing is common and, indeed, an arcade can'tsurvive as a stand-alone business, that the combinationof, you can see it, and if you want it you can buy it, wascommon?MR. KLEKNER: Well, the issue of separateness,and whether a business, an arcade and a bookstore can,could, or should survive separately is off the table. Itwas not part -- there was a stipulation that the -- that th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC that would not be considered. That's not before theCourt. As the record now stands, I guess the Court wouldhave to presume, as did the trial court and the court ofappeals, that survivability, economic viability ofseparate businesses or combined isn't an issue for thisCourt' --QUESTION: Well, each of these businesses wasone or the other of those things and operated on thatbasis alone for how long?MR. KLEKNER: Several years. I can't --QUESTION: Do you know whether they operated ata profit or at a loss?MR. KLEKNER: We never did any discovery onthat, so the answer is, we have no way of knowing.QUESTION: But they did it for a couple ofyears, anyway?MR. KLEKNER: Correct.QUESTION: They were only an arcade and therewas no selling going on when they were initially launched?MR. KLEKNER: It's my understanding that theymight have sell -- excuse me, sold some books, or what-have-you, but their primary business was having a seriesof video booths where you could watch adult movies.QUESTION: I get the opposite impression. MaybeI was misled by the briefs. I thought they had always th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC operated as a combined business. You say that's wrong?MR. KLEKNER: Not based upon the facts as Iunderstand them, sir.QUESTION: Pardon?MR. KLEKNER: Not based upon the facts as Iunderstand them, that -- and I believe in it wasAlameda Books that became both, and it was I think that Highland Books became both. I might be off by a yearor so, but there was a point in time where both -- whereeach location became both adult business activities.QUESTION: I'd like to ask you -- I'll assumewith you for the moment you don't need any evidence. Isuppose you don't imagine -- forget the evidence question. All right, I take it that this ordinance -- and I'm alsoassuming it, assuming this, you could have a particularplace, , feet of books, or you could have , cubicfeet of books, or you could have , cubic feet ofarcade, but you couldn't have , cubic feet of both,all right. Now, my question is, what's the theory behindthat?MR. KLEKNER: The theory is the solution, notthe facts. If you go from jurisdiction to jurisdiction,the facts tend to support the same conclusion, thatconcentrations of adult businesses cause secondaryeffects. How do you solve that problem? And the city's th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC decision was, because of the clustering effect, we termedit like a farmer's market type of effect for adultbusinesses, that dispersal was the solution.Square footage, you could have , square feetof this, or maximum, is a different solution, based upon,New York did that in their solution. They decided thatthe space limitation, square foot limitation wasappropriate for New York. That was not part of thesolution for Los Angeles. It was a complete dispersalof --QUESTION: All right. Now, if, in fact, thereis no space limitation, I would repeat my question, thatit seems a fortiori if you can have a bookstore ofgigantic size, or an arcade of gigantic size, but youcan't have the two together, even of a little size, so Idon't -- I'm not talking about evidence. I'm assuming,though, you have to have some theory, and the theory hasto be a reasonable one, and it can't just be we want tocensor everything, so what's the theory?MR. KLEKNER: The theory is simply the solutionadopted by the city of Los Angeles was to disperse. If,in fact, we were faced with the megastore concept that,you know, the Wal Mart of adult bookstores, then thatwould be a different problem, that we could address in thefuture, at least as I understand this Court's precedent, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC but that's what we were faced with in . We were facedwith the need to protect the city's neighborhoods from alot of smaller businesses, if you will, and the solutionwas, we'll trade size, if you will, for dispersal. NewYork, for example, said --QUESTION: But it still doesn't answer thequestion, exactly. If the city wanted to address theconcentration of adult businesses, certainly the study likewise addressed that, didn't it?MR. KLEKNER: Correct.QUESTION: But now we're talking about anordinance that doesn't focus on the concentration of adultbusinesses but, rather, the combination, because the citydoesn't want the business to break into two parts, eventhough it tried to operate as one business, and I guessthe study didn't address the combination, the effectsof a combination of focuses in a single business, whereasyour ordinance does.MR. KLEKNER: Well --QUESTION: As opposed to a concentration ofbusinesses.MR. KLEKNER: There are several responses to thequestion. The first is that, as you -- as I understandhow you use the term, business, you're talking about acorporate organization or a single proprietorship. That th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC is not what the city's ordinance deals with.QUESTION: -- operated as a single store, asingle business.MR. KLEKNER: From the city's perspective, it isillogical, or not reasonable to say, for the city councilto say, you know we have a problem here, on LaSenecaBoulevard, because we have two many adult businessestogether, so we're going to require them to disperse. There is no issue as to how we define these adultbusinesses. That's not before the Court.QUESTION: Well, what if the ban were, you cansell adult VHS tapes but not Beta tapes in the same store?MR. KLEKNER: We haven't done that, and --QUESTION: Well, it's the same thing. Can youbreak it down any way you want and say, it's fine becausewe're concerned about the --MR. KLEKNER: Because we are concerned with theoverall effect we have broken down the ordinance to itslocal components. We have not tried to somehow slice anddice definitions so that you have several different typesof retail adult establishments.QUESTION: Do all of the categories that youhave in the ordinance exist in the real world out there,video arcades only?MR. KLEKNER: Yes. They did in . They did th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC in .QUESTION: Adult bookstores only --MR. KLEKNER: Correct.QUESTION: -- without arcades in them --MR. KLEKNER: Correct.QUESTION: -- and so forth, every one of thecategories, adult movies only?MR. KLEKNER: Correct. Each of thesedefinitions, if you will --QUESTION: When you started out, though, thereweren't all that many tapes. There were books, adultbookstores. Now, isn't the video much more prevalenttoday --MR. KLEKNER: Actually, it's my under --QUESTION: -- and you seem to say that thecombination of this list, you think of a bookstore,nowadays one can browse, one can even go to a cafe andhave coffee, and all that, or go to a record shop andlisten to the tape and then buy it. That combination of,I view it and then buy it or not, that seems to be anatural combination, unlike having half of myestablishment a massage parlor and the other half a bookshop.MR. KLEKNER: The problem with your real-worlddescription of a Barnes and Noble is, it doesn't exist in th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC the adult entertainment world. The evidence that wasbefore the trial court was that the books, the magazines,the sex toys, the novelties, are all shrink-wrapped. Youcannot go into an adult bookstore, sit down and have yourStarbucks, and browse through the material.QUESTION: And you don't prevent them -- youdon't prevent these stores from allowing customers topreview the films before they decide whether to buy them,the stores that sell adult films. The ordinance doesn'tprevent them from allowing customers, at no charge, toview the films before they buy them, does it?MR. KLEKNER: If I understand the correct -- thequestion correctly, no.QUESTION: Under the ordinance, can a customercome in and say, before I buy this film, I would like tosee it, and the store manager says sure, go ahead, look atit first, then you can decide whether to buy it?MR. KLEKNER: For free?QUESTION: For free.MR. KLEKNER: Yes.QUESTION: The ordinance permits that anyway,doesn't it?MR. KLEKNER: We are talking about --QUESTION: But they want to charge for it.MR. KLEKNER: And the machines that allow you to th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC view up to clips, if you will, from various adultmovies, or you go to another machine in another booth, youcan -- I want to see that entire movie right there, asopposed to the clips.QUESTION: What is your principal argument inopposition to the rationale in the court of appeals? Ihave the feeling we're not letting you make the principalargument here that you wanted to make.MR. KLEKNER: The principal problem with thecourt of appeals decision is, of course, how itrequires -- what it requires, the use of secondary effectsand how it is discounts, if you will, or disregards thisCourt's precedent, is effectively what the court ofappeals has said. Not only must we have empiricalevidence of secondary effects in general, which the citydoes have, but you must also show that in this particularcase this combination contributes to that secondaryeffects, which I submit is going to be, on an empiricalbasis, next to impossible to do. The third --QUESTION: If it's next to impossible to do, whyshould you be allowed, under the First Amendment, to doit? I mean, it sounds as though you're kind of making anargument from spectral evidence here. You're saying,well, the evidence that we've got doesn't demonstrate theproblem that we're addressing, but we ought to be able to th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC address it anyway. I mean, isn't that what it boils downto?MR. KLEKNER: The problem we were addressingwas, is there a correlation, to use the term you used, theword you used in Barnes --QUESTION: Yes.MR. KLEKNER: -- between the adult businessesand secondary effects, do they cause a problem. We havedocumented that.QUESTION: And you've documented it, but as Iunderstand it, you've documented it with reference toadult businesses which were not at the time defined oridentified as necessarily being businesses that offeredonly one service, as opposed to a business like these,that offers two, so that the evidence, as I understand it,did not address the issues that is before us now.MR. KLEKNER: But it did address that issue,because it is not reasonable to assume that if you havetwo businesses side by side in the same block, causingsecondary effects, that it can require them to disperse,which is entirely --QUESTION: Yes, but we're -- I think we'replaying with words. You're talking about two businessesside by side, and you were measuring the effects back in' of businesses side-by-side. This is one business. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC It's not side-by-side. It's one business that sells twothings within the same storefront.MR. KLEKNER: But there's no evidence one way orthe other --QUESTION: Isn't that your problem?MR. KLEKNER: I don't believe it is -- it shouldbe a problem.QUESTION: You measured -- you measured theeffect of a video store -- what do you call these, arcadestore, and a bookstore side-by-side, and you found thatthat was deleterious, and the problem is that you did notmeasure what the different effect would be if you knockeddown the wall between them. Is there any reason tobelieve that that would make a difference?MR. KLEKNER: That's the whole point that thecity's been trying to make all along. There's nodifference in effect. You can't assume --QUESTION: Well, you don't know --MR. KLEKNER: -- less or more.QUESTION: How do you know that, any more than Iknow it? I mean, I see your point when you say, look, ifthere are two different entrepreneurs on a block, each ofthem doing whatever they can to draw in clientele, theodds are they're probably going to draw in a greaterconcentration of people than one. I mean, I will accept th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC that, as at least intuitive.Here, we're talking about one entrepreneur, andwhat seems at least intuitively arguable in the firstplace doesn't seem to be so obvious in the secondinstance.MR. KLEKNER: But you are describing this interms of business organization.QUESTION: Yes.MR. KLEKNER: Which is not how the city's zoningordinance works. The zoning ordinance does not reallycare whether you're an L.L.P., a corporation on-shore oroff-shore, or a sole proprietorship. Under the reasoningthat you're putting forward, I could open up at a locationjust because I have one company, as many adult businessesas I wish, or alternately, in order to get around thecity's ordinance, the two side-by-side companies,businesses form a new corporation, they merge, now we haveone corporate entity, ergo, we're home free. That'snot --QUESTION: And the -- but the likelihood thatyour evidence is going to bear on these variouspossibilities depends on more specific facts. If the twoside-by-side entities that merge are, on the one hand, amassage parlor and a bookstore, it seems sensible to saythey're going to be drawing the same concentrations of th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC people that they would have as separate entities.But when you're talking about combinations likebooks and video, it isn't obvious that you're going to bedrawing different concentrations of people, and I thinkwhat we're stuck with here is that your evidence, throughno fault of Los Angeles in ', but your evidence justdoesn't address the question as specifically as we have itbefore us now.MR. KLEKNER: If you look at the nature of thebusinesses, you come to an arcade to stay there and look,and when you leave that arcade, you have a different frameof mind than if you went to the bookstore, got yourshrink-wrapped magazine, put it in a brown paper bag, andwent home, so that's one logical deduction you can makefrom all of the evidence that's before you.QUESTION: Isn't it an equally logical deductionthat by looking at the cover of the shrink-wrappedmagazine and watching part of a video clip, or a videoclip of something that you ultimately buy, you're going tobe left in about the same frame of mind in either case?MR. KLEKNER: No. I think after watching clips from adult business, from adult videos, as opposedto the cover of a shrink-wrapped magazine -- the onlyreason --QUESTION: Aren't the -- maybe the magazine th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC covers are dull, but I --(Laughter.)QUESTION: -- assumed they were pretty racy, andif you look at covers and clip -- I don't know,that's cutting it pretty fine.MR. KLEKNER: Justice Souter, they're not liveaction.QUESTION: Mr. Klekner --MR. KLEKNER: That's the difference.QUESTION: Mr. Klekner, your question presentedseems to be quite narrow. It says, is a city zoningordinance which prohibits the operation of more than oneadult entertainment business at a single location,including an adult bookstore and an adult arcade, invalidbecause the city did not study the negative effects ofsuch combination?MR. KLEKNER: Correct.QUESTION: It seems to assume the city did notstudy the combination but, rather, relied on judiciallyapproved statutory precedent from other jurisdictions. Iassume that's some reference to the Hart case from theCarolinas.MR. KLEKNER: Correct, North Carolina.QUESTION: Because the Ninth Circuit said thatwasn't suitable reliance, is that right? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. KLEKNER: Well, basically what the --QUESTION: The Ninth Circuit, I thought, thoughtthat wouldn't do it because Hart addressed the healtheffects --MR. KLEKNER: No, what the Ninth --QUESTION: -- of the arcades, rather than theeffects on crime.MR. KLEKNER: What the Ninth Circuit effectivelysaid was, there was some doubt whether Hart would survivescrutiny under this Court's Renton decision, but we arecertainly confident that under Ninth Circuit precedentit's not a valid law. The purpose of Hart --QUESTION: I don't know, it just struck me inreading the question that it was pretty much limited towhether they were right about whether you could rely onthe Hart decision.MR. KLEKNER: Hopefully not. The city in specifically relied on its findings in , the studythat led up to the original ordinance, which as I said isnot at issue. That ordinance is reasonably --comparatively reasonable, according to plaintiffs.The problem is -- well, the issue with Hart is,Hart was decided in . It said that the city's 'study, just as we --QUESTION: Before the adoption of this th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC amendment?MR. KLEKNER: That's correct, that in , ourstudy supported a North Carolina statute prohibiting morethan one adult business in the location, that that was asufficient evidentiary basis. Confirming what the citycouncil thought --QUESTION: The Ninth Circuit thought that Hartrelied on the negative health effects of the arcade.MR. KLEKNER: We are less -- we, the city, isless concerned with the factual differences than with thelegal reasoning and the fact that it fully supports, andshould have been considered for that purpose by the NinthCircuit, as validating the intent and purpose of theoriginal ordinance and ''s amendment.QUESTION: Well, what we're getting down to isjust how precise a particular study or a particulardecision has to be. I mean, does it have to be word forword what the city is talking about, or can the city drawreasonable inferences, if it affects A, it also affects B?MR. KLEKNER: That's what hopefully the -- well,that's what the city has been trying to do, but again, itgoes back to, you know, if you look at your precedents,when a city has these problems, the logical -- the logicalthing for the city to do is say, ban them. We can't. It's a violation of the Constitution. We accept that. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC That's what Renton says. If you can't ban them, youshould be entitled to a reasonable opportunity toexperiment.QUESTION: And where I'm a little confused is,at the beginning of this segment of the argument, when webegan focusing on this question, I thought you saidsomething to the effect that we can't show thisempirically, and I was surprised. I thought you wouldsay, look, this isn't rocket science. If you have just ashoe store, and the shoe store all of a sudden starts tosell clothes, you're going to get more people. That's theend of it.MR. KLEKNER: But --QUESTION: I thought that's what you were goingto tell, but you --MR. KLEKNER: When you -- well, maybe Imisspoke, but when you want to get into the empiricalevidence of, are you a bad actor, this particular businessis a bad actor, it's a very detailed nuisance type ofanalysis, and when you have these combinations of adultbusinesses, or side-by-side adult businesses, and you tryto do that same analysis, the immediate thing that isgoing to occur, the first thing that is going to occur,it's not me, it's my neighbor, it's not me, it's thisother part of the business. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC We can't be expected to provide for alegislative scheme that detailed particularization of eachpossible permutation and combination of the problem. That's exactly what Young and Renton stand for.QUESTION: Let me ask you --QUESTION: Why doesn't --QUESTION: Go ahead.QUESTION: No, please.QUESTION: Let me ask you just one generalquestion. We often have said, the cities can rely ongeneral experience of other cities and other studies, andso forth and so on. Are there a lot of ordinances outthere that follow the pattern of this particularordinance, that would prohibit a single business fromoperating both a video arcade and a bookstore in the samelocation?MR. KLEKNER: There are some, Justice Stevens. There are others that would permit such combinations,depending upon how the city that's -- a particularjurisdiction analyzed the solution.QUESTION: But there are a substantial numberwho are similar to the one that we're talking about today?MR. KLEKNER: I won't use an adverb to describethe amount. There are some. I don't know if it'ssubstantial or not. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: That's an adjective.MR. KLEKNER: Excuse me, yes.QUESTION: May I go back to Justice O'Connor'squestion, because she asked how the Hart facts could helpyou. As I understand it, the facts in that -- number ,the basis for municipal action in that case was publichealth, and it was public health based on the sexualactivities that were going on inside the booths, and as Iunderstand it, Los Angeles in effect has an ordinance thatrequires open booths, lights on, freely seen -- the boothscan be freely seen from the front of the store, and so on,so it seems to me that Los Angeles has taken steps topreclude the health problem that that earlier caseaddressed and, if that's so, how could that earlier casesupport the Los Angeles ordinance?MR. KLEKNER: Well, again, the Hart reading offacts in that decision, again go to the fact that thesecombinations cause problems, and that the city'sordinance -- excuse me, the city's study supported theinference that it's okay to -- the solution is to separatethese businesses.QUESTION: Yes, but the Hart -- as I under --maybe I'm wrong, but I thought the basis for thegovernmental action in Hart was public health based on theactivity that was going on in these booths. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. KLEKNER: In part, yes.QUESTION: Yes, so it seems to me that it's offpoint for you.MR. KLEKNER: If there are no further questions,I'd like to reserve the remainder of my time. Thank you.QUESTION: Very well, Mr. Klekner.Mr. Weston, we'll hear from you.ORAL ARGUMENT OF JOHN H. WESTONON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTSMR. WESTON: Mr. Chief Justice, may it pleasethe Court:At the time we filed our briefs, we knew of noordinances similar to Los Angeles prohibiting thesimultaneous inclusion of an arcade and retail saleswithin one establishment, other than the one that was inHart v. Edmisten. At the time the city adopted it, ititself -- let me rephrase that. At the time the cityadopted it, the only one that apparently existed in theUnited States was the one in North Carolina and,subsequent to the city's adoption, as far as we knew,there were no additional ones throughout the UnitedStates. This is an enormously unique and unusual approachto a problem apparently not supported or shared by theexperiences of other cities.QUESTION: Do you know of any other cities that th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC had the experience of businesses such as the two involvedhere, which were originally involved in one sex panderingactivity, and then, after the ordinance was passed, wentinto a second one instead of opening up a separate store?MR. WESTON: Justice Scalia, you'll --QUESTION: I mean, you know --MR. WESTON: You'll --QUESTION: -- they may be unique, but thesituation that they confronted may be unique as well.MR. WESTON: You'll pardon me for not adoptingthe reference of the Court in phrasing the nature of thebusiness, but in fact the opposite is quite true. Respondent's businesses at all times, as is made clear inthe joint appendix at pages and , as discussed atgreat length at page of respondent's brief, particularlyin footnote , at all times operated their arcades inaddition to retail distribution, retail dissemination onthe premises, in the same establishment of sexuallyoriented materials.QUESTION: That's not how I read those pages.Shall we turn to them, page of the appendix?MR. WESTON: Please.QUESTION: Highland Book was issued a picturearcade police permit. Prior to June of the onlyadult type of business use of Highland Books was its th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC picture arcade, which at all times exhibited exclusivelyadult video tapes.MR. WESTON: Right.QUESTION: This is the affidavit of the owner ofboth of these businesses.MR. WESTON: That's correct.QUESTION: Mr. Wiener, right?MR. WESTON: Yes, that's correct, JusticeScalia, but the point, the use of the term, adultbusiness, was in the way that Los Angeles defined a use,and that if the Court will continue a little bitfurther --QUESTION: But that's the only thing that'srelevant here.MR. WESTON: No, with all respect, Your Honor. Up until sometime in -- well, let me phrase it thisway. For a considerable period of time in California, lawexisted such that the term, substantial numbers of retailmaterials -- that was the operative term which separateda -- an adult bookstore from a nonbookstore. In otherwords, if one -- one could operate the bookstore and carrya certain amount of adult material and not be denominatedadult. business?QUESTION: Was he considered really another th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. WESTON: That's correct.QUESTION: It was ancillary to the otherbusiness?MR. WESTON: That's correct.QUESTION: Right.MR. WESTON: Up until a very recent time in LosAngeles history, one could carry up to percent ofmaterials in one store and not be deemed to be an adultbookstore.QUESTION: This was a Los Angeles Countyordinance --MR. WESTON: No --QUESTION: -- you're referring to now?MR. WESTON: No, what I'm referring to isCalifornia court decisions which had interpreted thephrase, substantial number, amount of retail stock intrade.QUESTION: In the county ordinance? We're nottalking about a State law, we're talking about a countyordinance?MR. WESTON: It wasn't a law, Your Honor. Inother words, the California courts of appeal had construedthe term, substantial portion of the stock in trade, tomean anything less --QUESTION: Why did they -- why were they -- why th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC did they construe that term? Where did the term comefrom?MR. WESTON: The term came -- was an identicalterminology utilized in many, many, ordinances throughoutthe State of California. There was a vagueness challengebrought to it, and the court construed the term to mean apreponderance, more than percent of stock in trade inorder to avoid the vagueness. That --QUESTION: This was a phrase used in a number ofdifferent city and county ordinances --MR. WESTON: Absolutely, Your Honor.QUESTION: -- in California?MR. WESTON: Absolutely, and in fact it'sinteresting to note, because we've spoken about Hart thismorning, that the North Carolina statute in Hart was onethat pegged the definition of a retail bookstore as apreponderance. In other words, unless the store carried percent of its stock in trade as adult materials inHart itself, it would not qualify as an adult bookstore,and --QUESTION: And that's what you think Mr. Wienermeant when he said in his affidavit, prior to June of the only adult type of business, the only adult type ofbusiness use at Highland Books was its picture arcadewhich at all times exhibited exclusively adult videotapes? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. WESTON: Yes, Your Honor.QUESTION: And you think he had in mind that nomore than percent of other business was --MR. WESTON: If I may read --QUESTION: That's what the next sentence says.MR. WESTON: Yes. Thank you, Justice Stevens. The next sentence, Justice Scalia, prior to June of ,the majority of items available for retail sale atHighland Books were of a nonadult variety.QUESTION: That's why the only adult business hewas doing there was the other one. They were of anonadult variety.MR. WESTON: But that's --QUESTION: He's not saying we were selling adultbooks, but selling less than percent of adult books. He said the only other business we had was a nonadultbusiness.MR. WESTON: Justice Scalia, forgive me, I canonly tell you what the circumstances were. Thephraseology that was utilized tried to use theterminology, the confusing terminology that Los Angelesused in terms of its description of what a use is, and Mr.Wiener at the time sold and displayed vast quantities ofsexually oriented retail materials in the same stores, butunder the L.A. ordinance at the time, it did not th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC constitute an adult use.QUESTION: Well, I appreciate your testimony tothat effect, but what his affidavit clearly says is thatthe only adult business he did prior to was theexhibition of adult videotapes. The majority of the itemsavailable for retail sale were of a nonadult variety.MR. WESTON: Forgive me, Justice Scalia, I don'twant to belabor the point --QUESTION: Okay.MR. WESTON: -- but that's not a fair reading ofit. Prior to June of , the only adult type ofbusiness use, the type of business use at Highland Bookswas its picture arcade. That is defined exclusively, thatterm refers exclusively to of the Los Angeles zoningordinance which defined a use and labeled a use abusiness, and the only way that one became an adultbusiness and therefore a separate use was if one's stockin trade was percent or more adult.Mr. Wiener's was not. It was substantial, butit was not a preponderance, and therefore the notion thatthis existed as an arcade bereft of and separate from anyretail use is simply neither accurate factually norsupported by the declaration that was offered.QUESTION: I don't understand what this -pertains to. Does it pertain -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. WESTON: Stock in trade of the retailestablishment.QUESTION: Well, and it means that if -- ifless than percent is adult material, you're not --MR. WESTON: It's not -- at the time, in LosAngeles, it was not characterized as an adult use --QUESTION: As an adult business.MR. WESTON: Adult use or business, that'scorrect.QUESTION: Right, okay, but it doesn't mean thatif you have percent in one adult business and percent in another adult business, the percent is notan adult business? Does it mean that as well?MR. WESTON: That is correct. The percent ofadult retail material did -- acted to -- let me -- if Imay phrase it the other way. percent of stock in tradeat a business in Los Angeles, if it was adult, made thatstore adult, even if it was , total items, andvirtually, and nearly , of them had nothing to dowith sexually oriented material.QUESTION: Mr. Weston, I understand that thatdivision, that that was by inventory not by sales.MR. WESTON: That's correct, Justice Ginsburg.QUESTION: Because one of the problems was, youhad lots of books, dull books that nobody was going to th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC buy, and that you had -- that was what you had for percent, and then you had the stuff that people bought,and that was the percent.MR. WESTON: The record does not reflect that,Justice Ginsburg. That may have been the fact although,of course, the opposite may have also been true.QUESTION: But it's true that it would not havebeen considered an adult bookstore so long as theymaintained that -.MR. WESTON: That's correct, and if I may, as inHart, Mr. Wiener's initial businesses, as they wereinitially constituted, did not conflict with the multipleuse provision, notwithstanding the fact that percentof the videotapes viewed in them were adult, and percent or up to percent of the retail items availablefor sale were also adult.QUESTION: But can I --MR. WESTON: That did not constitute two adultuses under California law at that time, and that isexactly what the law was in Hart, that it was perfectlypermissible to have percent adult arcade material, and percent retail books, videos and so forth, and thatwould not have conflicted with the prohibition in Hart.QUESTION: Could you -- can you explain -- I'mjust trying to get back to the main point here, at least th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC as I understand it, which may --MR. WESTON: Yes, Justice Breyer.QUESTION: And don't assume I know a lot of thedetail that you know. I want to start this naively, so Itake it what they're saying is, look, we have a zoningordinance. We have to have some way of defining what's asingle business. If it were a liquor ordinance and wesaid, selling liquor wholesale is one thing, selling it ata bar is another, so that's two uses, not one. If it werea meat store which said, over-the-counter is one thing, atthe restaurant is another -- of course we could do it amillion ways.MR. WESTON: Certainly.QUESTION: But we have to do it some way, and soforget whether there's evidence or not. Just let us dowhat's reasonable here, and this is one, and by the way,if it were a different kind of ordinance, if it were acubic foot limitation, the fact that they counted it astwo separate things rather than one, would cut in yourfavor, but here it happens to cut against you.MR. WESTON: Well --QUESTION: But they say, either way, we're justtrying to have a reasonable definition. All right, nowyour response is what?MR. WESTON: Well, initially. I think Your th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Honor -- Justice Breyer, you have characterized fairly insome sense the city's position, because the city basicallysays, so logistically, if it's an adult business itgenerates secondary effects, and if there is secondaryeffects and there is adult business regulation notamounting to a ban, we can do anything we want, and courtsare directed not to look meaningfully at it, and it simplygets dealt with as a valid ordinance.But the problem with what Los Angeles has doneis that, unlike what would be logical, or unlike what mostzoning agencies do, which is to take a combined businesssuch as Your Honor posits and zone it according to themost intense of the combined uses, Los Angeles, forexample, makes reference to the fact that it deals withservice stations and auto repair places differently, butthe remedy that Los Angeles selects for that is not tosay, an auto repair place must be here, and , feetaway there must be a place where you -- I've said itpoorly, but that you cannot have an auto repair placehere, combined with a place that pumps gas, even thoughthere are separate uses. What Los Angeles logically does,as every city does, is permit the combination and thenzone the combination use according to the most intense ofthe combined uses.QUESTION: No, but that's a bad analogy, because th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC auto places are not -- try liquor. Try thinking of itliquor, and probably they could. They'd say, we only wantone liquor license in , feet, and if you have a baryou don't have a shop, and it then becomes less obviouslyunreasonable on its face.MR. WESTON: Let's take a --QUESTION: So let's assume it in their favorthat way, and then argue against it.MR. WESTON: Sure. Let's take a look at thatone. But what does Los Angeles do? It doesn't ban thecombined use, it simply again -- I don't mean Los Angeles. In your hypothetical, in the bar-restaurant, the zoningregulation would be appropriate for the more intense use,I assume --QUESTION: But this whole question is somethingthat's secondary. I thought the question before me iswhether or not Los Angeles is reasonable in saying thatthe combined use draws more people without having a study. I fully understand that you have an objection to theGovernment bifurcating your business. Leave that off thetable, so the only question is whether or not this wholebusiness draws more people, and whether or not there's anempirical basis for it. Isn't that what I'm supposed todecide here?MR. WESTON: I'm not quite sure about drawing th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC more people. I don't think that that was what the -- thatwas not the focus of what Los Angeles was concerned --QUESTION: You mean, you had the arcade becauseit didn't draw any more people?MR. WESTON: No, it wasn't more people, it wasthe notion for a variety of reasons, and if we return toYoung v. American Mini Theatres, there is at least --there's some indication in Young that it's not simply aquestion of people, but rather, what is the perceptionfrom the outside world?QUESTION: Well, but not simply a question ofpeople, but surely the kind of secondary effects that havebeen spoken of in cases depend upon people's activities,and the people aren't miles away, they're somehowassociated with the business.MR. WESTON: Certainly. I -- that'sunquestionably reasonable, Mr. Chief Justice, but thearticulation by Los Angeles in its statement oflegislative purpose, which appears at -- it's at page of the appendix to the petition for certiorari, and I'mtruncating it, but two or more adult entertainmentbusinesses, operated as a single commercial enterprise. This concentration of adult entertainment businesses tendsto have an adverse impact on the neighborhood in whichthey are located. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC The hypothesis, the asserted harm, was from acombination of adult businesses, and what was the evidenceon which Los Angeles relied for this proposition? Thesole evidence was a study that measured not, as has beenbrought out earlier, whether there were harms unique,there were special harms that developed from a combinationof two businesses within a single unitary establishment,but rather, whether there were secondary effects thatresulted from the clustering of a dozen, or or unrelated adult businesses.QUESTION: At some point, Mr. Weston, don't youthink the legislature is entitled to draw what might becommon sense inferences from the studies that it made, andthat it doesn't have to have empirical evidence for everysingle thing that it does in the ordinance?MR. WESTON: Of course not, Your Honor, and forexample, if the city, as it suggests, which we do notagree with, really thought -- I don't mean to castaspersions on the city. If, in fact, the city's sensethat this adult bookstore-arcade combination was so uniqueand so unusual, even though there's no evidence in therecord of an arcade standing alone anywhere int he UnitedStates, except as part of an adult bookstore, but if itwas so unique that they really hadn't dealt with it, onecould understand that it would be appropriate, as the city th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC has, to accord zoning treatment to this combined use,which is exactly what was done here.The combined use is not free from the zoningrequirements of the City of Los Angeles. This combineduse is , feet away from any other adult use. It's feet from any of the protected sensitive areas, and it iswithin the limited commercial zones which the city says ithas to be.QUESTION: Mr. Weston, incidentally on the otherpoint, I reviewed your footnote. I tend to read footnotesquickly. You were right on our other point.MR. WESTON: Thank you, Justice Scalia.QUESTION: On --MR. WESTON: I'm going to go home now.(Laughter.)MR. WESTON: I thank the Court for its courtesy.(Laughter.)MR. WESTON: This is a memorable day for me.QUESTION: It seems to me that if you'reobjecting to the municipality's use of this other study,which didn't treat combined stores, you -- it seems to meyou have to tell us why it would be likely that combiningthe diverse businesses under one roof could make anydifference. I mean, you have situation . You have awhole block full of adult businesses, a video store, a th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC movie house, a bookstore, blah, blah, blah, okay, thewhole block full.Situation , you have the same block. They'rejust not different stores. It's just one big -- you know,it's just Adult, Inc., and on one side there's the, youknow, the arcade, and then the next part of the storethere's the movie house, and so forth. Why in the worldwould there be any difference in the two situations as faras its impact upon the community is concerned?MR. WESTON: There are a number of responses tothat, and they require a bit of articulation. They're alittle bit different, and as I was starting to say beforein terms of Young v. American Mini Theatres, the soleevidence, essentially, in Young v. American Mini Theatreswas an affidavit submitted by a man by the name of MelRavitz.In that case, one of the things that Ravitzstressed -- and this was, of course, the firstconcentration zoning, the first case that uphelddiscriminatory zoning in a sense of motion picturetheaters according to the nature of the content of thematerials exhibited there, and the basis was, of course,that the reason for the legislation was not because of thematerials but, rather, because of some unique secondaryeffects associated with them, and this was a very unusual th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ordinance. It was an anti-Skid Row ordinance originallyto which Detroit, long after the original ordinance hadbeen adopted, added adult businesses, and Ravitz' pointwas this, that there's a self-fulfilling prophecy thatdevelops in a neighborhood when residents or prospectivenew residents or business people or whatever come into aneighborhood and they see lots and lots and lots ofdifferent storefronts, let's say soup kitchen, a rescuemission, pawn shops, adult bookstore, Sam's Adult Arcade,or even your excellent idea, the adult emporium --(Laughter.)MR. WESTON: -- and as a result, this thenbecomes a self-fulfilling prophecy of the imminent declineof a neighborhood.So from the Young perspective, from the sense ofdeclining property values, it becomes very different fromhaving the eight or nine adult businesses to which YourHonor referred to close proximity in one block, or twoblocks, which all of a sudden says tenderloin, or redlight district, or whatever, as opposed to one singlestorefront that says, Highland Books, and which does notcause the visual --QUESTION: But it doesn't have to say that. Imean, they're entitled to, you know, to divide thestorefront into each of its components and have a sign on th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC one that says, you know, adult videos, and then in thenext bay have a sign that says, movies, and then the nextbay, adult books, and so forth.MR. WESTON: But that's no different --QUESTION: I don't see any difference between --MR. WESTON: But that's no different, JusticeScalia, from a single - store that says, bananas forsale, cents today, rutabagas a dollar and a half, andCoca-Colas on sale here. It's --QUESTION: Mr. Weston, in that respect, wouldyou be making the same argument that you are now makingfor tapes plus arcade, sales of tapes plus arcade, if thecombined uses were a massage parlor and an adult hotel?MR. WESTON: That's a very fair and goodquestion, and I've been thinking about that one for along, long time, and I think the easy answer to it issimply that with respect to the massage parlor there wouldbe no First Amendment interest to protect, and thereforeit wouldn't raise the question. Now, that's a cutelawyer's answer. It doesn't really help, I know, whatyou're, obviously what, Justice Ginsburg --QUESTION: Well, I guess you'd say the samething about the adult motel.MR. WESTON: Absolutely, and --QUESTION: Although some people might consider th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC that expression.MR. WESTON: Absolutely, and in fact I did saythat in FW/PBS v. City of Dallas, when one of the threecomponents was an adult motel, but interestingly -- andI'll try to address the combination question, butinterestingly, and this is one of the things that makesthe L.A. study suspect to begin with, is that of the adult uses that were focused on by the police departmentand the planning department in Hollywood, of them -- Ibeg your pardon. Of the -- of the uses, of themwere either massage parlors or adult motels.QUESTION: Well, I don't think that question isfairly subsumed in the question presented. I mean, Idon't think there was any challenge below to the validityof the ' study so far as it went.MR. WESTON: No, you're exactly right, Mr. ChiefJustice, there wasn't a challenge specifically to it, butas we --QUESTION: There wasn't a challenge specificallyto it. Are you suggesting there was some unspecificchallenge to it?MR. WESTON: The specific challenge that wasmade was whether the study supported the city's statedpurpose that combining a bookstore and an arcade in oneestablishment, in one physical structure, caused the kinds th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC of problems, the only problems which the study evaluatedand found and, in fact, in the city's own papers it makesclear, and we set this forth in page of the respondent'sappendix, we note to it, rather, in joint appendix ,that on the contrary, the --QUESTION: Respondent's --MR. WESTON: I beg your pardon. I've beenconfusing.QUESTION: The red brief, in page ?MR. WESTON: Forgive me, Mr. Chief Justice. I've misspoken. At joint appendix, the beige document,page , there is language from the study that points outseveral respondents commented that the adverse effects,secondary effects, are related to the degree ofconcentration, and that one freestanding business may have no effect, and that's really what we're talkingabout.Justice Ginsburg, with respect to your question,could there be some issues with respect to combined uses,our great fear in terms of the parsing argument that wehave made is that if the city's novel and ratheradventurous piece of legislation is upheld, that the nextstep, as inevitably as night follows the day, will be toparse these business into smaller and smaller kinds ofsubcomponents that -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: But you gave an answer that I didn'tthink was just a glib lawyer's answer. You said books,tapes, those come under the First Amendment.MR. WESTON: Yes, Your Honor.QUESTION: Massages don't.MR. WESTON: Right, and I --QUESTION: Yes, but what about combining amotion theater and a bookstore?MR. WESTON: I would -- one would think that thesame kind of analogy as we have offered here would bepresent, that with a motion picture theater and abookstore there would appear to be no logical suggestionthat the two of them would generate any greater secondaryeffects than the motion picture theater alone. When wegot into area --QUESTION: Well, look at it a littledifferently. I understand your argument about arcades andbookstores being functionally connected, but withbookstores and motion pictures, I think the outburstargument has quite a lot of appeal. If you had themseparately owned and it would violate the ordinance, whyshould it not violate the ordinance if you combine them?MR. WESTON: Well, I'm not sure that theseparate ownership is what constitutes the vice aimed atat the ordinance. It's rather that by the city's unusual th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC definitional situation of calling different mediapresentations or different uses different businesses, inthe same sense like at a - the dairy section is abusiness and the --QUESTION: It seems to me if you have a - andan A&P next door, it's the same problem as if they'reowned by the same owner. I don't follow the argument whenyou get to motion pictures and bookstores.It seems to me that those two businessesoperated by separate owners would have precisely the samesecondary effect as a single business operating both amotion picture and a bookstore. Why am I wrong on that?MR. WESTON: I'm not aware of any data thatwould suggest that the combination would -- thecombination in, Justice Stevens, in your hypothetical thata theater and a bookstore together, I'm not aware of anydata that would lead one to reasonably conclude that thecombination of a retail use in a motion picture theaterwould generate more secondary effects than what I assumewould be the more intense use, the motion picture theateroperating alone.QUESTION: Well, you conceded a moment ago --QUESTION: That may be true -- go ahead.QUESTION: Go ahead. You --QUESTION: That may be true if you interpreted th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC secondary effects as just this look that the neighborhood has by having the businesses strung along the block, butsecondary effects is also the number of people come wholoiter, who drive around, who concentrate outside. Thenthat is a secondary effect that it seems to me would beincreased by the two uses.MR. WESTON: I think that's fair, JusticeKennedy. Certainly, if secondary effects is nothing morethan patronage, then I'm not sure that I could argue, butthat's not what the identified and hypothesized secondaryeffect is on the part -- from the city, and in analyzingthese ordinances, as I understand the Court's doctrine,one looks at the specific legislation and the assertedstated purpose, asserted statement of purpose, which inthis case is whether the concentration of -- I should say,the combination of adult businesses within a singleunitary establishment causes the same kinds of secondaryeffects found by a clustering of or or unrelatedadult businesses in a very small area in terms of theneighborhood. That was the city's hypothesized,hypothesis.QUESTION: Yes, but isn't one way to pose thatquestion to pose it the way Justice Kennedy did? Thequestion is, does the particular combination increase thedegree of clientele, because we know that the greater the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC clientele, the greater the crime rate is going to be, sothere seems to me to be a factual basis for saying thatthe clientele is a kind of a surrogate measure for thosevery effects that the city can legitimately try tocounteract.MR. WESTON: With all respect, Justice Souter, Imust question the hypothesis that it is the clientele thatwill cause the problems. I would --QUESTION: The amount of clientele is associatedwith the problems. It may be that that clientele ispreyed upon by other people who come in, but the fact is,I think, that the study shows an association between thenumber of people concentration to come to these businessesand the secondary effects of crime, et cetera, that thecity can do something to prevent.MR. WESTON: I --QUESTION: That's the hypothesis that I'm --MR. WESTON: I really don't think so in thisinstance, because if that were, in fact, the hypothesis ofthe city, surely, with all of the thought that they havegiven to this, there would have been an absolute sizelimitation or a square footage limitation that was part ofthe legislation to deal just with that problem, but theyhaven't. As one of the questions before inquired, supposeit was a , square adult bookstore or an arcade or a th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC cabaret.QUESTION: Maybe they could do that. You know,we have a one-step-at-a-time principle, that the Statedoesn't have to do everything it possibly could in orderto validate what it has done. Maybe it should prohibitany more than arcades showing sex videos at one place. It just hasn't done that yet. It will get there when thatbecomes a problem, I assume.MR. WESTON: And I suppose we'll be back herethen having to address that.QUESTION: You seem to be arguing that we shoulddecide this case on the assumption that the city'sevidence, as it now exists, would not be a sustainablebasis for an ordinance saying, you can't have two -- youcan't have different adult uses in one arcade. Do youwant us to decide -- are you saying that you're going togo for broke, that we've either got to sustain thatproposition, or you lose? Because I'm suggesting -- Imean, my question was mean to suggest that there's afactual difference in degree. It may be very intuitivelyobvious that if you put of these uses in one business,you're going to bring in a lot of people, going to have alot of problems.It may not be intuitively obvious, and you mayneed some specific evidence simply by combining videos and th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC books, it may not be intuitively obvious that that isgoing to create the problem, so I'm suggesting adifference of degree. Do you reject that?MR. WESTON: Not at all, Justice Souter. Ofcourse there may be --QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. Weston.Mr. Klekner, you have minutes remaining.REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF MICHAEL L. KLEKNERON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERMR. KLEKNER: Thank you.In our reply brief we cite heavily -- in ourreply brief we cite from the appellee's brief in Young v.American Mini Theatres. Footnote to our brief quotesthe purpose for clustering, which is to attract people.Basically, you're attracting unattended males on a frolicon their own.Mr. Wiener, in his, one of his declarations atjoint appendix , why does he combine businesses? Toattract patrons. Typically, unattended males on a frolicon their own. There is no qualitative or quantitativedifference in the effect.QUESTION: Well, if you combine buying, they getout of the store. If you have only the arcade, they'lllinger longer.MR. KLEKNER: Well, that's -- they're -- you th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC cannot expect an ordinance to solve everything in --QUESTION: I'm just questioning whether there'sgoing to be more of a problem if you have the stand-alonearcade, where to see the film to the bitter end you haveto stay there, but you really like it, so you buy it, andyou get out quicker.MR. KLEKNER: Well, but that's an argument togetting rid of the arcades. The purpose of theseordinances is to spread out --QUESTION: But you can't --MR. KLEKNER: -- spread out the patronage, tomake sure that you don't have this clustering, this magneteffect. You know, if you want your sex toys and yourvideos and your books you go to Third and Alameda becausethat's where everybody goes.You want to avoid that. That's the wholepurpose of this, so it makes no difference, inferentially,one way or the other if they're side by side or in thesame building, and inferences in this Court's precedentdoesn't require that we have conclusive evidence,empirical evidence. Paris Adult Theaters, Nixon v.Shrink, case after case says you can rely on inferences,and if the issue is fairly debatable -- this is adebatable issue, you draw -- you give deference to thelegislative judgment because you can draw different th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC inferences from the same evidence.That is what's been done here. We are -- thankyou.CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: Thank you, Mr.Klekner. The case is submitted.(Whereupon, at : a.m., the case in theabove-entitled matter was submitted.) th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC 