 IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XREMON LEE, Petitioner ::v. : No. -MIKE KEMNA, SUPERINTENDENT, CROSSROADS CORRECTIONAL CENTER. :::- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XCourtroom Constitution Avenue, N.W.Washington, D.C.Monday, October , The above-entitled matter came on for oralargument before the Supreme Court of the United States at: a.m.APPEARANCES:BONNIE I. ROBIN-VERGEER, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalfof the Petitioner.PAUL C. WILSON, ESQ., Assistant Attorney General,Jefferson City, Missouri; on behalf of theRespondent. C O N T E N T SORAL ARGUMENT OFBONNIE I. ROBIN-VERGEER, ESQ.On behalf of the PetitionerPAUL C. WILSON, ESQ.On behalf of the RespondentREBUTTAL ARGUMENT OFBONNIE I. ROBIN-VERGEER, ESQ.On behalf of the PetitionerPAGE P R O C E E D I N G S(: a.m.)CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: We'll hear argumentnext in No. -, Remon Lee v. Mike Kemna.Ms. Vergeer.ORAL ARGUMENT OF BONNIE I. ROBIN-VERGEERON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERMS. ROBIN-VERGEER: Mr. Chief Justice, and mayit please the Court:Remon Lee is serving a life sentence withoutpossibility of parole for first degree murder without everhaving had a chance to present testimony from witnesseswho could have established his innocence. I would like to begin by discussing whetherLee's failure to comply with two Missouri rules governingmotions for continuance is an adequate State law ground tobar consideration of Lee's Federal due process claim basedon the State trial court's denial of a brief continuance. In the circumstances in which his motion for a continuancewas made, the answer is no. Under this Court's existing precedents, Missourirules . and . are not adequate to bar review ofLee's due process claim because application of the rulesin -- in this case was arbitrary and serves no legitimateState interest where Lee lacked a reasonable opportunity to comply with the letter of the rules under thecircumstances, where Lee supplied --QUESTION: You're -- you're just summarizingnow, I take it. You're going to go into more detail as towhy --MS. ROBIN-VERGEER: Yes. QUESTION: -- the rules are arbitrary. MS. ROBIN-VERGEER: Correct. I was justsummarizing for the Court the circumstances that made itso that there was no legitimate State interest served inthis case. QUESTION: Well, at least as far as .'selements are concerned, presumably those could have beenaddressed by counsel. I mean, the -- the differentrequirements could have been orally presented. I wouldassume that . sets out certain information that isgenerally regarded by the State as -- as crucial --MS. ROBIN-VERGEER: That's --QUESTION: -- in making the decision. MS. ROBIN-VERGEER: That's correct, and everypiece of information required by those rules were beforethe trial court. The Missouri --QUESTION: When you say before the trial court,you mean in the presentation made at that time orally bycounsel? Answer that yes or no, please. MS. ROBIN-VERGEER: No. Every element --QUESTION: Where -- where else are you saying itcame from? MS. ROBIN-VERGEER: The opening statement bydefense counsel. QUESTION: So, the trial judge is supposed toremember the opening statement by -- by defense counselwhen he passes on a motion for a continuance that's madeat the end of the trial? MS. ROBIN-VERGEER: Let me clarify a few things. Every element required by the rules was -- was before --was stated by counsel or by the defendants on the stand --QUESTION: How about -- I didn't find anythingabout that at all. The sixth requirement was that theaffiant knows of no other person whose evidence orattendance he could have procured at trial by whom hecould prove the same facts. Was that addressed? I -- Ididn't find it. Perhaps you could point me to where thatwas addressed.MS. ROBIN-VERGEER: The discussion with thetrial court was -- bear in mind the discussion with thetrial court occurred in an emergency situation wherewitnesses are suddenly gone and the -- and counsel is nowbefore the trial court explaining what had happened. Everyone in the discussion knew who the witnesses were and why they were crucial to his defense. This was a shorttrial --QUESTION: You -- you say that the trial judgeknew it too?MS. ROBIN-VERGEER: Yes, and the trial court --even in the colloquy, you can see that the trial courtknew who the witnesses were. At one --QUESTION: And what their purpose was? I -- Ididn't get that at all out of the transcript.MS. ROBIN-VERGEER: At one point during thediscussion -- the only question that the trial court hadfor counsel was were these witnesses under subpoena, andcounsel answered that question yes, twice. QUESTION: The counsel has to make a showing ofhis own. It's not just responding to questions from thecourt. MS. ROBIN-VERGEER: When the -- when counselpulled out the subpoenas and starting reading from thesubpoena and he read, Gladys Edwards is supposed to comeon the last day of trial at o'clock, the trial courtresponded, is she the mother, showing that the trial courtunderstood who the witnesses were. Bear in mind thiswas --QUESTION: But what -- what the purpose was. MS. ROBIN-VERGEER: There was only one issue in the case and that was whether the defendant was correctlyidentified by the eye witnesses or was he somewhere else. This was the entire affirmative defense for Mr. Lee. Three witnesses were his entire affirmative defense,and --QUESTION: Was that explained in the openingstatement? Could you elaborate on what was said in theopening statement? MS. ROBIN-VERGEER: Yes. In the openingstatement, which occurred only the day before thisexchange took place, counsel outlined for the trial courtand the jury the fact that Minister James Edwards, Mr.Lee's stepfather; Gladys Edwards, his mother; and LauraLee, his sister had traveled from California to testifythat during the period of July through October , Mr.Lee had been staying with them in California and was notin Kansas City. And they -- and his statement providedcertain details that showed why they remembered when itwas, that he had come out for the birthday parties forhimself and for his niece and had stayed through the -- upto the Halloween party. And all of this was laid out inthe opening statement and made it clear that thesewitnesses were crucial to his defense and is what hisentire defense was based on. QUESTION: This -- this goes to the importance of those witnesses. I find it extraordinary that youdidn't get a neighbor or, you know, somebody other thanhis mother, his father or stepfather, and the sister tocome and testify he was out there. Nobody else saw himthere? He -- he stayed in their home the whole time? Youknow, if I was looking for people to -- to bring totestify for an alibi -- he was there for how long? Forthe whole holiday season? MS. ROBIN-VERGEER: July through October. Therecord is silent --QUESTION: Nobody else saw him there that hecould have brought in? He has to bring in his mother, hisstepfather, and his sister? MS. ROBIN-VERGEER: I -- I can't answer that. The record is silent on who saw him. QUESTION: Well, let me tell you -- let me tellyou, counsel, what -- what concerns me about your case. Let's -- let's assume that you can convince us that giventhe haste -- the press of trial and the shortness of timethat the counsel did about all he could -- all he coulddo. But there was a post-conviction new trial motion some days or -- or weeks later, and at that point, the --the counsel made no specific showing as to why thewitnesses -- the mystery remained. There was -- A, therewas no showing at all or even mentioned of the fact that a court officer might have misled them, and -- and B, wenever know why they left. Whether -- the counsel had weeks to -- to supplement that motion. I -- let me as you this as a predicate. Iassume that the State trial judge at the new trial motionhad the opportunity and the right under State law torevisit his ruling denying the continuance. MS. ROBIN-VERGEER: Correct. QUESTION: Well, there was nothing new shown bycounsel at that point. So, even if you -- if we concedethat the press of trial and the surprise that attended thedisappearance of the witnesses excused the counsel fromdoing anything more, he surely is not excused from thisskimpy showing weeks later. That's what bothers meabout the case. MS. ROBIN-VERGEER: Okay. As for why, I was nottrial counsel below. I don't know why he didn't say morein the motion for a new trial. But I can tell you thatthe Missouri rules governing motions for a new trial saythat when a -- when error is assigned at the motion for anew trial stage -- and this is rule . of the MissouriSupreme Court rules -- that -- and a request is denied andthen that's made a basis for a motion for a new trial, ashort general statement reiterating that ground isappropriate in a motion for a new trial. As for why he didn't say more, I can't answerthat.QUESTION: Well, but you're -- you're sayingthat Missouri, as a matter of due process, did not affordadequate opportunity for this attorney to explain thedisappearance of his witnesses. And even if I grant youthat the rush of -- that the press of time was such thatwe can excuse the performance at the -- on the day oftrial --MS. ROBIN-VERGEER: I have --QUESTION: -- weeks later he had -- he had allthe opportunity in the world to explain this, I think. Now, Judge, we were in a hurry when you denied thecontinuance. Maybe you didn't understand him, and here'swhat happened. He doesn't do that. It seems to me that'sthe end of the case from a due process standpoint.MS. ROBIN-VERGEER: I -- I disagree. I thinkthat the ruling on the motion for a continuance isevaluated ex ante. It's evaluated at the time that themotion was denied, and at the time that the motion wasdenied -- and the standard has been stated in Unger v.Sarafite. Quote --QUESTION: But Missouri gave to the attorney theopportunity to revisit the entire matter at the post-conviction motion for a new trial, and nothing further was adduced. MS. ROBIN-VERGEER: The motion for a new trialrestated his grounds for granting a new trial, the factthat the witnesses had come in -- and it did -- it didexplain that they -- these were the alibi witnesses fromCalifornia -- so that was clear in the motion for a newtrial -- and the fact that the trial court had denied thatmotion without giving him a short recess or withoutenforcing the subpoenas. These witnesses were undersubpoenas, and rule . of the Missouri rules statesthat when a witness doesn't -- isn't there for a criminaltrial, he's under subpoena, he's subject to arrest.There's no special procedural rule that governshow that has to happen. The judge took no effortwhatsoever to enforce the subpoenas in this case, andwe're talking about just a short -- a few hours'continuance to try to figure out what happened and to getthem in.QUESTION: These were sequestered witnesses, asI remember it. At the time of the motion for a new trial,did the lawyer point out that the bailiff, or whoever itwas, had told them they would be excused for the -- tillthe next day? MS. ROBIN-VERGEER: That was not stated in themotion for a new trial. QUESTION: It wasn't until later.MS. ROBIN-VERGEER: It was in the rule .State post-conviction motion that that issue first cameup.But the question of why the witnesses ultimatelyleft and whether the State was responsible for that isreally a separate issue. That goes to -- well, that maygo to cause, but it also goes to whether he has a separatedue process claim on that basis. It's not necessary tofigure out why the witnesses left to evaluate whether ornot the trial court's denial of a brief recess to try tofigure out what happened to the witnesses was an arbitrarydenial --QUESTION: Well, there's where I disagree withyou because weeks later, he didn't show anything moreother than they were alibi witnesses. And I'll -- I'llassume, for purposes of this question that he knew thatbecause of the opening argument. MS. ROBIN-VERGEER: The reason why they leftdoesn't change the fact that the moment that the trialcourt ruled on the motion for a continuance, he didn'tknow where they were, counsel didn't know where they were,the prosecutor didn't know where they were. At thatmoment, was it reasonable to deny him -- I mean, thedefendant only asked for hours, just a few hours -- QUESTION: Well, but what I'm saying is we don'tneed to have at that time because we have the benefit ofhindsight weeks later, and you had nothing new.MS. ROBIN-VERGEER: There's nothing new in themotion for a new trial, but no new facts need to beadduced in the motion for a new trial. It is appropriatein Missouri to bring facts that are outside of the recordin a rule . post-conviction motion, and they werebrought up in the rule . post-conviction motion. There's no mystery here about why the Statetrial court judge denied the motion, and he denied it onthe merits. He did not deny it because the applicationwas defective. The prosecutor didn't object to theapplication, either the request for a continuance or theform in which the request was made. Had the trial courtor the prosecutor signaled some question -- and again,bear in mind the emergency way that this came up -- hadsignaled some question, he could have cured it. And in a way, you have a kind of a reversesandbagging where error is left embedded in the record andit isn't until the direct appeal years later that anyonesuggests there was something procedurally defective aboutthe motion. QUESTION: Do -- do we know that if he had beengiven the couple of hours' continuance, which is what he asked for, you would have located the witnesses? Wheredid they go? I -- I'm -- that part of the story nevercomes out from this stuff. They -- they just disappearfrom the courthouse. Is there any explanation of whathappened to them? MS. ROBIN-VERGEER: Well, the affidavits of thewitnesses don't state where they went when they left. Inthe rule . post-conviction motion, it states that theywent to a relative's house. The defendant represented tothe trial court at the time of the colloquy that he knewthey were still in town because there was a religiousevent, and counsel provided the actual address of therelative's house, at which were believed to be staying,and told the trial court judge that they had no telephonethere, which is why the girlfriend had gone out lookingfor them. QUESTION: Where did they go? I mean, had theygone to a movie? I mean, if they were not back at theuncle's house, it wouldn't have made any difference unlessit was a very short movie. I mean, the couple of hours'continuance that he asked for -- we have no reason tobelieve it would have been -- it would have been enough,and that's all he asked for. These witnesses justdisappeared into thin air. We still don't know where theywent. MS. ROBIN-VERGEER: The --QUESTION: Why do you say that, you know, if hehad only gotten these couple of hours, everything wouldhave been okay? MS. ROBIN-VERGEER: The record doesn't establishfor sure where it is that they went at the time they leftor for a fact that they could have been brought in.Again, I -- I don't think that that's necessaryto the ruling because it's evaluated at the time of thetrial court's denial. But if the Court disagrees, itcould remand this for an evidentiary hearing to engage inmore fact-finding about what the witnesses did. The lower courts never got that far. QUESTION: I think -- I think that's yourburden. I think you have to show that there was an errorthat -- that harmed your client, and -- and if the refusalto -- to give a couple of hours' continuance -- if there'sno reason to believe that -- that it caused any harm,what's the difference? MS. ROBIN-VERGEER: There is nothing in therecord that contradicts the representations made bycounsel and the defendant to the State trial court thatthey were staying at a relative's house and that they werestill in town, and the State has never offered --QUESTION: There's nothing in those facts that suggests you could find them in hours.MS. ROBIN-VERGEER: Well, counsel's actualrequest for a continuance was -- was until the followingmorning. And if nothing else, even if counsel couldn'thave found them, the State has an obligation --QUESTION: I'm quoting -- I'm quoting from yourbrief. Lee asked his counsel to request a couple ofhours' continuance to try to locate them. MS. ROBIN-VERGEER: Correct, and then it's --and then --QUESTION: Lee told the court that he knew thewitnesses were still in town, blah, blah, blah, blah,blah.MS. ROBIN-VERGEER: But then -- but ultimatelycounsel asked for an overnight continuance. And that'swhen the whole exchange with the judge takes place wherethe judge says, oh, Friday I'm going to be with mydaughter in the hospital. Then the lawyer says, well,what about Monday, and the trial judge's response is, Ihave another trial scheduled. So, that's where that wholeexchange takes place. QUESTION: So, you -- counsel did ask for acontinuance until the following morning. MS. ROBIN-VERGEER: Correct. Correct. And the sheriff's office could have gone out. Counsel also asked for arrest warrants -- he called themcapiases -- arrest warrants to go out to find thewitnesses, if necessary, if he couldn't have located them. And that's -- that's the least that the Due Process Clauseand the Compulsory Process Clause would require, would besome effort to try -- to try to bring in the witnesses --QUESTION: But it's -- it's odd in a way, andperhaps this doesn't -- that, you know, you would have toget a capias and arrest your -- your father-in-law andyour mother and your sister.MS. ROBIN-VERGEER: You know, I think that is abackup suggestion by counsel to cover all bases. Theywere under subpoena. The defendant has a right to havewitnesses under subpoena there. They had mysteriouslydisappeared. He had no idea why they left or where theyhad gone. And he was covering all of his bases by askingthe trial court for arrest warrants, if necessary. It maynever have come to that because the girlfriend wasn't evengiven enough time to get to the relative's house to see ifthey were there. And just returning also to the circumstances inwhich this exchange took place, the trial court hadcreated a real sense of rush and urgency in this trial. I've quoted several instances in the opening brief. It'sfootnote where the State trial court had indicated to counsel that he wanted to move this case along. Justbefore the lunch recess, in fact, he said, I want thiscourtroom cleared by : p.m. And that's trialtranscript page . I want this courtroom cleared by: p.m.QUESTION: Counsel, please -- please don't askus to write an opinion where we tell judges it's wrong totell counsel to hurry along. MS. ROBIN-VERGEER: No. (Laughter.) MS. ROBIN-VERGEER: No. And I'm not saying thatthe -- the trial court doesn't have broad discretion inhow to manage its docket and everything else. But when counsel was before the judge and isexplaining the situation that has occurred, theatmospherics that had arisen where the trial court judgeis pressuring them to move along factor into how thecolloquy went, especially given that this is an unexpectedsituation. It's not that different from what happened inOsborne v. Ohio, although I think that case is lesscompelling than ours because there was no emergencysituation. But in Osborne v. Ohio, Ohio had a rulerequiring that jury -- that objections to juryinstructions be made right before they're delivered. Counsel didn't object to the lack of an instruction onlewdness, but this Court said that the pretrial motion todismiss the indictment on First Amendment grounds wassufficient and --QUESTION: Well, the rules for reviewing thatsort of thing in this Court have changed a good deal fromthe time of Osborne against Ohio I think. MS. ROBIN-VERGEER: Well, the basic principlesregarding when a State law ground is adequate haven'tchanged much. This Court takes a functional approach tolooking both to whether or not a litigant has a reasonableopportunity to preserve his claim and also to whetheranything would be gained whether all of the purposesserved by the rules have been fulfilled, such that there'ssome adequate State interest in enforcing a proceduraldefault. The purpose of these rules is to permit thetrial court to pass on the merits of a motion for acontinuance. The trial court denied this motion on themerits, and we quarrel with the basis for the trialcourt's denial. We think it was as arbitrary as arbitrarycan be. But there's no mystery here was to why the trialcourt ultimately denied that request and it wasn't becauseof any procedural defect in that motion. QUESTION: But the Missouri Court of Appeals upheld the denial on the basis that it hadn't conformed torules what? and ?MS. ROBIN-VERGEER: Correct. And -- and there's-- there's something anomalous about an appellate courtcoming in to enforce a procedural rule, in circumstanceswhere there's an emergency situation, such that neitherthe trial court, the prosecutor, or the defendant believedthat there was anything more that needed to be done.QUESTION: Well, I -- I think it's fair to say-- or maybe it isn't. Maybe you can argue with this --that what the appellate court was saying that at leastunder ., there was an insufficient showing, and that'sexactly what the trial judge found. The trial judgedidn't cite .. He doesn't say I'm ruling against youbecause you're inadequate of showing under .. Butit's clearly implicit in his ruling. MS. ROBIN-VERGEER: The only thing that couldpossibly be missing in the showing that was made duringthe exchange on the continuance was a failure to repeatthe full opening statement regarding what the witnesseswould have testified to. QUESTION: No. I think it was assurance thatthe witnesses would be provided within -- within the timeframe that -- that they asked for. I didn't see wherethat -- that assurance was, and that's what -- what . requires, and that's what I think the trial judge didn't-- didn't have, and that's the reason he said, forgetabout it. MS. ROBIN-VERGEER: What rule --QUESTION: One of the reasons.MS. ROBIN-VERGEER: -- rule .(b) requiresthe name and address --QUESTION: Where are you reading from?MS. ROBIN-VERGEER: I'm reading from page a ofthe -- the appendix to the opening brief. It requires the name and residence of suchwitness, if known -- that was given -- and also factsshowing reasonable grounds for belief that the attendanceor testimony of such witness will be procured within areasonable time. The showing that was made to the trialcourt during the discussion was both that they were stillin Kansas City, Missouri. They hadn't left forCalifornia, and that they had reason to believe they werestill there because they had a religious event to attend.If he had written out of amotion, he couldn'tpossibly have said more. That is a sufficient showingunder that ground. QUESTION: And they had come voluntarily.MS. ROBIN-VERGEER: And --QUESTION: They had not come by subpoena. They weren't subpoenaed until they got to Missouri. They camethere voluntarily? MS. ROBIN-VERGEER: That's correct. They weresubpoenaed in counsel's office when he was interviewingthem.QUESTION: They also skipped voluntarily justbefore they were supposed to be put on the stand underoath. MS. ROBIN-VERGEER: But we don't --QUESTION: Doesn't one factor that into accountas to whether these witnesses who suddenly vanish intothin air are likely to be found? MS. ROBIN-VERGEER: No, because there was nofactual basis at that moment before the State trial courtjudge to have any idea whether it was a medical emergency,a misunderstanding, they had gone to lunch and hadn't comeback on time. There was no information before the Statetrial court at that moment to form any assumption aboutwhy they left. QUESTION: They were there under subpoena. Theyknew that they were going to be testifying in an hour, andthey left without apparently telling the person who hadsubpoenaed them, their -- their son's counsel, or anybodyelse. I mean, are those circumstances which would leadone to believe that it's going to be a cinch to find these people and bring them back within a reasonable time?QUESTION: But you also have to factor in thefact they were sequestered witnesses not in contact withany of these people you're discussing. MS. ROBIN-VERGEER: Correct. They were in aseparate witness room, and during the time that theysupposedly left, there were trial proceedings that weregoing on. There was -- they were in trial with witnessesat the point that they -- that the witnesses left. So,there wouldn't have been contact.QUESTION: Did their sequestering prevent theirleaving a message with the -- with the clerk of the courtor a marshal or someone saying, tell my son we're goingbecause we had a medical emergency or, you know -- orbecause, as the -- as the later story comes out, somemarshal told us to leave? MS. ROBIN-VERGEER: Well, if you credit thelater story --QUESTION: I find that so implausible that theyshould just walk out, not leave any word for -- for theirson for whom they were about to testify. I -- and I don'tthink, if I were a trial judge, I would have thought thesewitnesses are about to be found within -- within areasonable time. MS. ROBIN-VERGEER: You have witnesses who apparently are unsophisticated. They're not lawyers.They're not schooled in the law, and if you credit theirstory that someone told them their testimony wasn't neededthat day and they could leave --QUESTION: Wasn't there a thing too that he's aminister, the father, and he was scheduled to give asermon that night? MS. ROBIN-VERGEER: Correct. He had -- he was aminister and he had a religious event in Kansas City thatday and the next, which was the reason that was given forbelieving that they were still in town. No one made anyeffort to track these witnesses down or to enforce thesubpoena. QUESTION: The defendant was in custody, was henot, during --MS. ROBIN-VERGEER: Correct? QUESTION: So, they didn't have actual contactwith him. They couldn't have gone in and said, hey, we'regoing to lunch. MS. ROBIN-VERGEER: Correct, correct. QUESTION: There is a --QUESTION: But they could have told somebody totell him, couldn't they? And -- and there was no reasonto believe at that time -- this story came up a lot laterafter the -- much later than weeks that -- that in fact it had been some court personnel who told them that theywere no longer needed. As far as the trial court knew --MS. ROBIN-VERGEER: It actually makes the trialcourt's decision that much more arbitrary because at themoment that the trial court is faced with this question,you have witnesses who traveled voluntary from California,who are under subpoena, who actually appeared in thecourthouse, were sitting in a witness room, and hadsuddenly disappeared, and no one knew why.QUESTION: Why did it take months to bringout the -- the information that a court official toldthese people their testimony wouldn't be needed? Was itnot needed at all or not needed till tomorrow? That'sunclear. MS. ROBIN-VERGEER: Well, with respect to yourquestion regarding the delay, I think that's just afunction of how the Missouri post-conviction processunfolded. He -- you know, he filed a -- a motion forpost-conviction relief later in '. Counsel was thenappointed. Counsel filed an amended petition, and so youhad the passage of time. QUESTION: Did he get in touch with these peoplebefore -- before weeks -- I mean, before the motion forreconsideration of -- of the denial of -- of continuancecame up? MS. ROBIN-VERGEER: I don't know whether he gotin touch with them or not. QUESTION: Well, that's extraordinary. I mean,if they were so easy to find, one -- one would havethought that he would have contacted them within the weeks and they would have told him within those weeksthat a court personnel had told us to leave. MS. ROBIN-VERGEER: The record --QUESTION: But he doesn't mention that --MS. ROBIN-VERGEER: The record --QUESTION: -- weeks later. MS. ROBIN-VERGEER: The record is silent onthat. I -- I can't answer that. QUESTION: I know it is.QUESTION: Was the motion for a new trial filedby the same lawyer who represented him during the trial?MS. ROBIN-VERGEER: Yes, it was and in fact, hewas relieved during the sentencing hearing that tookplace.QUESTION: I know. He wanted to get out ofthere because he wasn't going to get paid even for thenotice of appeal. It seemed to me he was anxious.MS. ROBIN-VERGEER: Correct. QUESTION: And once he had gotten fee for whathad been done, he sort of lost interest in the case. MS. ROBIN-VERGEER: That is an impression thatthe record gives. QUESTION: So, you -- you can't say that he --he got in touch with these witnesses who would have beenso easy to find within a day. You can't even say that hegot in touch with them weeks. MS. ROBIN-VERGEER: I don't know. I don't know.Getting back -- just to return to the second --to this Court's cases because I think I was beginning toget into Osborne. I think that Osborne supports ourposition here because the Court took a functional approachin Osborne to whether or not there was any -- anythingthat would be gained by forcing counsel to repeatinformation that was already before the judge, and theCourt said, no, there was no -- there was no default.Other cases in which this Court has found thatprocedural rules were applied with the phrase beingpointless severity or whether there were arid rituals ofmeaningless form where technical niceties were notobserved, but nonetheless counsel could substantiallycomply with the showings required by the rules, cases likeDouglas v. Alabama where you didn't repeat a futileobjection, cases like Staub v. City of Baxley wherecounsel challenged on First Amendment grounds an entireordinance and didn't signal out particular -- particular provisions to -- to attack because it was clear what the-- what the lawyer was challenging. Wright v. Georgia andNAACP v. Alabama ex rel. Flowers where the claims weren'tgrouped exactly right in the -- in the State court appeal,but this Court, nonetheless, found that no purpose wouldbe served by finding a default in those cases. All ofthose suggest -- and -- and also the fact, of course, thatthe defendant did not have a reasonable opportunity tocomply with the letter of the rules, but nonethelesssubstantially complied with the rules. All of thosesuggest there should be no default, and in thealternative, even if there was one, that there should be afinding of cause and prejudice. And with the Court's permission, if there areany more questions, I'd like to reserve the remainder ofmy time. QUESTION: Very well, Ms. Vergeer. Mr. Wilson, we'll hear from you.ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAUL C. WILSONON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTMR. WILSON: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court:Justice Kennedy -- Kennedy, you are quite rightto be disturbed by counsel's failure to provide the courtany more information or better showing under -- under rule . in the motion for a new trial that was filed weeksafter the events that the Court has been discussing thanhe did. But what should trouble this Court much, muchmore than that is that months following the last day ofpetitioner's trial, his new trial motion was heard, andthe trial court asked counsel whether he had anything elsethat he would like to submit in consideration of themotion for a new trial, and counsel replied no. QUESTION: Why -- why do you think that mighthave been? I mean, why -- why do you think -- I mean, Iwas wondering why it wasn't ineffective assistance ofcounsel not to put the thing in writing and not to complywith .MR. WILSON: First of all, for -- for counsel tohave represented the facts that . requires, counselwould have had to believe that they were true. And one ofthe principal purposes --QUESTION: He didn't say all that in the openingstatement, did he? MR. WILSON: Excuse me? I'm --QUESTION: I mean, I wonder why is there noineffective counsel claim. Why didn't the Federal courtin this case say, well, look, you're the lawyer in theState court at the trial, didn't comply with rules and ? My goodness, that was in effective assistance. Whydidn't the habeas court say that here? MR. WILSON: The habeas court addressed thequestion of whether there was such --QUESTION: Why didn't they say what I just said?MR. WILSON: And because they -- they said thatclaim was never raised to --QUESTION: Now -- now, that's exactly right. Now I want to know why do you think that -- thatthat claim wasn't raised at that hearing, namely, theafter-the-trial hearing, the post-conviction? MR. WILSON: First, how trial counsel conductstrial motions and post-trial motions is an area in whichhe -- there is a broad discretion for the trial counsel.QUESTION: Of course, and what I'm reallydriving at is, isn't the reason that they didn't raiserule and rule as showing ineffective assistance atthat post-trial business is because nobody dreamt that thecourts in that State of Missouri would apply rule andrule ? Because up to that point, nobody had evenmentioned them. They didn't get mentioned until theappellate court, after this series of events, on its ownraises rule and rule .MR. WILSON: Justice Breyer, that's correct. QUESTION: That's not -- MR. WILSON: That is not correct. First, these are published rules of court thatwere in the book long before petitioner's trial, and thecases applying these rules, in fact, comparable to theseand in others, are -- it's an unbroken string ofprecedent. So, counsel was either aware of those or wascertainly deemed to be aware of those. QUESTION: Well, at least --MR. WILSON: And second --QUESTION: -- we know that the -- the trialjudge did not deny the continuance on the basis of afailure to comply with those rules, did he?MR. WILSON: He didn't say because I findthat --QUESTION: There's nothing in the record toindicate that the trial judge said, well, I can't grantthat. You didn't file it in writing. You didn't supplythis information. That's not in the record, is it?MR. WILSON: No, Your Honor. He did not citethat. QUESTION: The trial judge denied it because hewanted to go to the hospital with his daughter on one dayand he had another trial in another case starting the dayafter. MR. WILSON: I don't believe that's correct. QUESTION: Isn't that right? MR. WILSON: I don't believe that's correct,Justice O'Connor. I don't believe that a fair reading ofthe record indicates that that is why he denied themotion.QUESTION: What -- what does it indicate? Imean, I --I read it the same way Justice O'Connor did, andI -- I don't -- what is your reason for --MR. WILSON: I -- I think the record clearlyshows that the reason he denied the continuance isbecause, as Justice Scalia suggested, he determined, onthe circumstances that had been presented to him, thatthese witnesses abandoned the defense. QUESTION: Then why did he get into hisdaughter's hospitalization and his Monday schedule? MR. WILSON: The -- the continuance that wasrequested was till the following morning, and it was inthat context -- and -- and it is a single sentenceutterance there, that -- that he noted that he was notgoing to be in the courthouse --QUESTION: Well, why if he -- if he was denyingthe motion on the ground that there had not been thespecifications that rule required, why get into hisdaughter's medical condition? MR. WILSON: The trial judge could have been responding to the idea that even though you've not made asufficient showing, I'm not going to cut a break for thisbecause --QUESTION: Yes, I assume -- I assume there are anumber of factors that go into the judge's decision. Oneis that -- the -- the court's own schedule. The other isthe reason these people have gone. He says it looks likeyour -- you folks -- I think he said you folks have beenabandoned by these witnesses. And so, he gives a numberof reasons, all of which are exactly what he has to dounder . even though he doesn't cite ..MR. WILSON: He found that an insufficientshowing had been made, and there are other factors that hewould have been considering. First, counsel had committed to this trialschedule. Second, defense counsel had announced himselfready to proceed and had put on part of his case. Third --QUESTION: The witnesses were there, we're told. They -- they, in fact, were there and subpoenas hadissued. They were there. And it is, I think, somewhatunusual that in the strange circumstances of theirdisappearance, that there wouldn't be some small amount oftime given to find out what had happened. MR. WILSON: Except that the circumstances thatwere presented to the trial court, Justice O'Connor, Ibelieve supported his conclusion that they had left --QUESTION: May I just interrupt? Isn't itcorrect that the witnesses were sequestered, and the oneperson who would know where they were would be a courtemployee who had -- in charge of the sequesteredwitnesses? MR. WILSON: There was a court employee incontact with them and also trial counsel was in contactwith them and the defendant.QUESTION: No. Trial counsel was in court.MR. WILSON: But trial counsel went and checkedon them at o'clock when the State rested its case. Hewas back one subsequent time I believe the record shows. But at least he says in the new trial motion -- he sayswith clarity and particularity that he went there at o'clock and they were gone. So, from the time he knewthat they were gone, hours elapsed before they were backin front of the trial court. And it is important to note that the -- thecolloquy that occurs.QUESTION: Well, they might have gone down toget an apple out of the vending machine. I mean, thecounsel has got a lot to do. He's got his closing -- his opening statement for the defense. He's got hiswitnesses. He goes down. They're not in the room. Idon't -- I don't attribute much to that. MR. WILSON: But if these are the witnesses thatstand between this young man and life in prison withoutparole, it is absolutely to be presumed that trial counseldid what trial counsel would do in that circumstance andsay, you are under subpoena. You don't leave thiscourtroom unless I tell you -- you don't leave thecourthouse unless I tell you it is okay. Our case is nowbeginning. It will proceed --QUESTION: Why would he have any reason to thinkthat witnesses who had come on their -- by their ownexpense all the way from California and who were in thecourtroom that very morning -- they were there at :, asI understand, and at o'clock they're still there. Whywould he have any reason to think they would leave? MR. WILSON: Justice Ginsburg, he may not havebelieved that they would leave or -- or suspected theymight leave, but these are the sorts of instructions thattrial counsel give their witnesses whether or not theythink that that might happen because the circumstances canbe very dire if they do leave. QUESTION: Well, if -- if we're -- if we'regoing to make an argument based on what trial counsel could be expected to do, why isn't it equally fair to makean argument about what trial judges could be expected todo? And I would have supposed that if the trialjudge was denying that motion based on rule or rule grounds, he would have said I'm denying your motionbecause you haven't conformed with rule to put it inwriting, if that was the case, or rule , to specify whatyou're supposed to specify. And he didn't do that. And Iam also supposing that if he had done anything like that,counsel would have said, gosh, judge, please give me apiece of paper and let me write this out.So, why -- why isn't it a -- a fair inference,when the judge says nothing about these rules, that thejudge in fact is not relying on those rules in any way?MR. WILSON: First, the judge did ask, followingthe discussion about what had happened, whether counselintended to file a motion for a continuance. It seemsclear in that that he expected or at least had reason tobelieve that counsel would be providing a writing. Second, this trial judge was a very well-respected court of appeals judge in the State of Missouri,and in fact he sat on the panel that decided State v.Settle, which is cited in our brief, which was a case thatdetermined that a showing -- where the . showing was not made, either by affidavit, but also by substance, thatthe motion -- that the denial of the motion could beaffirmed on that basis alone. QUESTION: Even -- even where it wasn't -- thedenial wasn't based on that basis. Are any of the other Missouri cases involve asituation where the trial judge did not rely on or ,but nonetheless, his action was affirmed on the basis of-- of failure to comply with or ? MR. WILSON: I don't know any of the dozens ofMissouri cases that are cited in the briefs that appliedthe rule that a failure to comply with those rules willforeclose appellate review where they cited that the trial judge had made a specific finding . has been or. has been violated. Instead, that's the -- thereview that the appellate court undertook. Second --QUESTION: The question was --QUESTION: -- on that -- I -- I mean, they havea lot of cases. You know, and in their reply brief theyhave -- the other side has some that seem pretty much onpoint against you. But there's no case that I can finddirectly on point. Direct.MR. WILSON: Justice Breyer --QUESTION: So -- so, if that -- maybe you can suggest one, but I'll go back and read it. But the -- therule -- the standard I thought might be useful is thestandard in respect to that, that did the lawyer have fairnotice that the rule exists and applies in thecircumstances. Now, maybe since -- and it was written in anamicus brief that favors your side -- maybe you approve ofthat standard. And I'd like to know, A, do you or not?And if you do approve of that standard, but I come to theconclusion here that that trial judge did not have fairnotice that the Missouri rules would apply in thesecircumstances where he was suddenly surprised by the lossof witnesses and nobody in the courtroom said a word about or . And nobody said anything about ever, and theappellate court went and applied it for the first time onits own. That's a big question, but it has two parts, andI'd like an answer. The standard and the application ofit. MR. WILSON: The standard that you gave me,Justice Breyer, I don't believe differs materially fromthe standard in Ford v. Georgia which is firmlyestablished and regularly applied. It's important to notethat regularly applied does not mean precisely applied tothese exact circumstances in a published case prior to the defendant's trial, but rather regularly -- regularlyenforced. And so, I believe that the standard youarticulate is a good one, and this rule meets it because,A, it's published, and B, there were an -- an unbrokenstring of precedents both before defendant's trial andsince that time, and not one of them excuses a defaultunder . or ., reaches the merits of a request fora continuance, and finds that the denial was error. QUESTION: The reason the -- the three aspectsof it that suggest maybe this lawyer did not have fairnotice that the rule would apply in the circumstances are,first, the lawyer was surprised by his loss of witnesses.So, he didn't have time to prepare anything in writing inadvance. Second, he's in the courtroom talking to thejudge and he knows full well that everyone in thatcourtroom knows every single thing about what rule andrule require. There was no missing fact. The judgeknew it. The prosecuting attorney knew it, and he knewit. And third, there is no Missouri case that saysthat we're going to require a useless act in thecircumstance where the lawyer has suddenly been surprisedby his loss of witnesses and everything is going on orally in front of the judge anyway. Now, those are the three that I think cutagainst you, and so I'd like your reply. MR. WILSON: Surprise, Justice Breyer, was notpresent. He went to the witness room at o'clock in themorning before the lunch break, substantially before thelunch break, and discovered that they had left. From o'clock then until just after o'clock is the amount oftime he had to conduct his investigation as to where theyhad gone, but also to prepare a writing. But leave aside the writing requirement, whichmay or may not have operated with any purpose in thissituation -- I believe that it did. But more importantly,he did not gather the information and present it all atonce to the judge that . requires. Second --QUESTION: Could you just tell me on that, whatcould he have told the judge that he knew that he didn'ttell the judge?MR. WILSON: He did not tell the judge thatthese witnesses could be located in a reasonable amount oftime and that they would give the testimony that it hasbeen suggested they would give. QUESTION: Well, he -- the judge knew whattestimony they were going to give. You don't question that, do you, that there --MR. WILSON: I -- I do question that, JusticeStevens. QUESTION: Didn't -- didn't the lawyer announceit in his opening statement to the jury? Isn't that onereason it was so -- so prejudicial that they didn't showup?MR. WILSON: The -- the -- a lawyer's statementsand opening statement are not evidence and they're notevidentiary. QUESTION: But the judge heard the statement. MR. WILSON: He did hear the statement, butwhat's --QUESTION: He knew what the witnesses wereintended to testify to, didn't he? MR. WILSON: But . requires more than that,Justice Stevens. QUESTION: Well, he did know that much, don'tyou agree? MR. WILSON: I do, but -- but it requiressomeone to attach their credibility to the propositionthat they will actually give that testimony. QUESTION: And, of course, I suppose the lawyerknew what the family would testify to before they heardthe strengths of the prosecution's case, which was that there were four witnesses that put him in -- in the city.QUESTION: I don't suppose a lot of judgesconcentrate intently on opening statements the way they doperhaps motions that they have to decide or something likethat. If -- if some -- in the rare instance whereopposing counsel objects to an opening statement, thejudge -- but certainly he doesn't pay attention to thatthe way he would to lots of other things in the case. MR. WILSON: Your Honor, that might be true as ageneral proposition, but we don't need to rely on ageneral proposition in this case because this judge toldthese lawyers in this lawsuit the following. Quote: Idon't have a lot of faith in what's said in openingstatements anyway. That's the trial --QUESTION: Are you going to tell me right now --we both read this record. And are you going to tell methat in your opinion, the judge did not know that thesewitnesses were here to say that the defendant was inCalifornia at the time?MR. WILSON: The judge knew that he did not haveanybody in that courtroom who was willing to stand up andsay on my credibility, that's what these witnesses --QUESTION: He did not know that he had thelawyer's assurance of that. He did not know that he hadthe lawyer's assurance of that. MR. WILSON: Or any other --QUESTION: Because in fact he did not have thelawyer's assurance.MR. WILSON: That's correct. QUESTION: But he did --QUESTION: Actually I asked the question thatI'd like an answer to. The question that I asked you waswhether you're prepared to say right now that the judgedid not know that the purpose of these witnesses was totestify that the defendant was in California at the time. I didn't ask you the question that Justice Scalia asked. I asked you my question. I'd like to know the answer tomy question. MR. WILSON: I believe that the -- that thejudge knew what had been said -- what had been attributedto them in the opening statement. I -- that is not thetest that . requires. That's not the --QUESTION: That's a different -- well, if you're-- you're willing to say, which I think is fair and Ithink correct, that on the basis of this record, the judgeknew that the point of these witnesses was to testify thatthe defendant was in California at the time. MR. WILSON: At the most --QUESTION: The answer to my question is yes. Isthat right? MR. WILSON: Yes. At the most what he knew wascounsel expected that to be their testimony the day of --QUESTION: Well, he knew something more thanthat, didn't he? He knew that counsel, who was an officerof the court and need not be sworn in makingrepresentations in that courtroom, had represented as amatter of fact to the judge and to the jury that that'swhat the witnesses would testify.MR. WILSON: No, I don't believe that that'scorrect. I don't believe that that's what you can say hisstatement and opening statement means. I think that itmeans that standing there -- at -- at the most, what youcould say is, standing there in front of the jury -- andhe's addressing the jury and not the judge -- that hisbest expectation of the best the evidence will be out ofthe witnesses' mouths is as he stated it. I don't --QUESTION: What -- I presume what he stated wasnot if things go as well for me as possible, these peoplewill say as follows. I presume what he said is, I havethese three witnesses. He described their relationship,their location, et cetera. And they will testify that thedefendant was in California at the time. I presume that'swhat he represented in open court. Isn't that correct?MR. WILSON: That is what he told the jury.QUESTION: -- because we have the transcript that shows exactly that. He told the jury these are thethree witnesses. They will testify that he was inCalifornia. He described the witnesses and he said, theywill testify. MR. WILSON: Yes.QUESTION: He didn't say, the best thing thatyou might infer from what they testify.MR. WILSON: But counsel's statements to thejury in opening statement are not held to the level of arepresentation of an officer of the court to the judge --QUESTION: But the judge was fully apprised thatthe defendant was expecting to put on witnesses and thatthey were alibi witnesses. There's no doubt about that,is there? MR. WILSON: The judge knew facts -- knew thosefacts from the opening statement only. But . requires someone to attach theircredibility to those propositions when they are assertedas the basis for an interruption in the orderly conduct ofa criminal trial. QUESTION: Is it your experience that witnessesever have second thoughts about giving their story afterthey've heard the strength of the prosecution's case?MR. WILSON: That -- Your Honor, I believe thatthat does happen. And I believe especially it can happen in a case such as this one where the defense counsel didnot know the strength of the State's case as accurately ashe might have because instead of the --QUESTION: But were these witnesses in thecourtroom to hear that testimony? I thought they had beensequestered. MR. WILSON: They had been sequestered. That'scorrect. QUESTION: So how would they know? How wouldthey know the strength of the government's case if theyhadn't been there to hear it? MR. WILSON: I don't know that they did know,but I know that they visited frequently with the defendantand with defendant's counsel. I don't know that they didknow. And -- and it isn't for us years later --QUESTION: They did later file affidavitssubstantiating what the -- was said in the openingstatement, didn't they? MR. WILSON: Excuse me? QUESTION: They did later file affidavitsconsistent with what the counsel had said in his openingstatement. MR. WILSON: Yes, years later they did, years -- QUESTION: What about the third part which is --I -- I take it as well that you would agree that the judgeheard that this -- the missing witness is a minister who'sthere for a religious event that's taking place thatevening. All right. So, we know that and were not literallycomplied with. Now, but they might have beensubstantially complied with. And so, at this point, wheneverybody knows in the room what's going on, was thelawyer fairly apprised that what we had to do was performwhat he might have thought of as a useless act? And the case that's the strongest for your yesanswer, he had to go through the form even though thesubstance was right there in the case of the surprisewitnesses -- your strongest case or two under Missouri lawis?MR. WILSON: Missouri v. Cuckovich and othercases cited in the -- in the dissent in the Eighth Circuitwhere he quite candidly categorizes and admits thatMissouri rules of . and . applied prior to trial,at the outset of trial, and during trial. They apply --they apply --QUESTION: Well, you don't want us to decidethis case on the fact that he didn't make an affidavit, doyou? I mean, that's so easy. The judge puts him under oath or gives him minutes to write something out. You're not resting on that, are you? MR. WILSON: Your Honor, I am not --QUESTION: -- . I would --I would think.MR. WILSON: I'm not going to stand on theformality, and we didn't stand in the court of appeals ona formality of a writing or even the formality of anaffidavit. But there was no one in the courtroom at thetime this issue was being decided who was willing toattach their credibility to these assertions, who waswilling to say to the judge, if you stop this trial, Ibelieve there is a reasonable probability that I canproduce these witnesses and that they will give thisdefendant an alibi, that they will say on the date andtime of this murder, he was not within , miles.QUESTION: So, if I read through the transcriptand I came to the conclusion that everyone in thatcourtroom in that very short trial, in the circumstancesgiven what was said, would have very clear that thislawyer does mean to tell the judge, one, these are my ownwitnesses that make a difference. Two, they're alibiwitnesses. Three, they're going to say he's inCalifornia. Four, I don't know why they left. Five, giveme a couple of hours or at least till tomorrow morning. He's giving a sermon downtown and I'd like to try to findhim. Now, if I come to the conclusion that any onereasonable person in that courtroom would have thoughtthat was -- the lawyer was saying that in thecircumstances, I could hold against you. Is that right? If I think that the circumstances were such in thecourtroom that anyone would have -- any reasonable personwould have come to the conclusion that this was in effectwhat the lawyer was telling the judge.MR. WILSON: In effect, what the lawyer wastelling the judge by reference, implied or otherwise, tothe entire body of trial is not what . or .require. They require that that showing be made in theapplication for the continuance. Now, if we say that an oral application is fine,okay, but you still have to present the facts and you haveto present them in a way that makes them believablebecause what's being asked for is a serious imposition onthe trial court and its conduct of this criminal trial.QUESTION: Mr. Wilson, at the time of the newtrial motion, the transcript was available to the judge ofthe proceedings? MR. WILSON: I don't know, Justice Ginsburg. The new trial motion was filed weeks after trial, butthe new trial motion was heard months after trial. QUESTION: My concern with your position is yousuggest twice in your brief that counsel ought to havescribbled out this . notice. He could have had alegal pad and scribbled it out. That seems inconsistentwith your answer that you're not seeking to the form.Here is -- is a man on trial for a very seriousoffense. The lawyer is faced with the absence of the onlywitnesses he has. He's got to do his best. Should he bethinking about scribbling anything on a piece of paper? Should he be -- have all of his attention trained on howcan he do the best for his client under these extremelyhorrible circumstances? MR. WILSON: Justice Ginsburg, that argument inthe brief is -- is not made to show what a reasonablelawyer would do or what every lawyer could do, but ratherto show that it was neither impossible nor impractical --impracticable to comply with the rule. QUESTION: Well, I -- I -- .. I wassurprised to see the Missouri Court of Appeals interpretit to apply to things like a motion for a continuancearising during trial because it -- well, it's verydifficult, I would think, for a lawyer, suddenly facedwith an emergency like this, to -- you know, you obviously-- you can't go back to your office and dictate a motion,and to simply write out something in longhand when perhaps he can simply make the statement orally. MR. WILSON: It may be surprising that -- thatthe court of appeals and the Missouri Supreme Court havedone that, but they have done it. And that is theMissouri law and -- and it has been so for some time. Andthe mere fact --QUESTION: We don't know -- we don't know that-- that the idea of you have to scribble something in thecourt has been around for some time because, as you said,there's no case that presents precisely that situationwhere the motion is in the -- in the heat trial somethingunexpected happens. You have no precedent that says, evenso, under the Missouri rules you must sit there in yourseat at counsel table and scribble out a motion.MR. WILSON: Well, the -- no. The -- theprecise circumstances of this petitioner's case have notarisen in a published case in Missouri. That's correct.But there is -- it was clear that in the midsttrial and even in some exigency, the courts of appeals andthe Missouri Supreme Court had held . and . torequire a writing and a sufficient showing in the past. And -- so, if this counsel -- as soon as this colloquy wasconcluded and the motion had been denied, they turnedimmediately to the -- to the petitioner's counsel's motionfor judgment of acquittal at the close of all of the evidence. He made that motion orally, but because he knewthat in order to preserve his right to appeal any of thepoints therein, he asked the judge, and the judge gave himpermission, to file the writing later. The same is true with this rule. Becauseanybody who had read the cases applying . and .would know that you are forfeiting your right to appellatereview of a denial if you have not put the sufficientshowing before the judge and done so in writing. QUESTION: Mr. Wilson, I thought you weren'tgoing to rely very much on the -- on the not written part,but let's talk about the other part, that all of these --even if all of these factors of substance that had to bein the motion were somewhere in the trial transcript andeven if you could say that this trial judge knew it, youcouldn't say, could you, that the court of appeals knewit, that the court of appeals could look back to thismotion without searching the entire transcript and askingitself, I wonder what, under this transcript, the trialjudge knew? The -- the court of appeals in Missouri couldnot look at the motion and say, well, he set forth what hehad to say -- set forth. That -- that's clear, isn't it?MR. WILSON: Yes, that is clear. QUESTION: The court of appeals would have beenconstrained to review the entire trial record, which it is one of the purposes of -- of . to avoid.MR. WILSON: Yes, it is. . -- one of the --QUESTION: It is not purposeless, even if youassume that the trial judge knew that -- that in fact thelawyer was -- was making the affidavit that he -- that hehad to make.MR. WILSON: Yes. The purpose would be toprovide a meaningful appellate review by bounding therelevant facts in a credible fashion and presenting themnot just to the trial judge, but also to the court ofappeals. QUESTION: But, of course, I suppose the courtof appeals is entitled to rely upon the trial judge'sreasons when it reviews the adequacy of those reasons forgranting the motion. So, if the trial judge's reasons donot look -- do not reasonably refer to rule , then Isuppose on anybody's theory, the court of appeals wouldn'thave to search the record. Isn't that so? MR. WILSON: No, I don't believe so because the-- the very purpose of the appellate rule is that theywill not do exactly that. If . and . were notcomplied with, then it doesn't really matter.QUESTION: No. All I'm -- all I'm saying isthat I thought what the -- the State court of appealswould review would be the -- the reasons given by the trial judge for ruling as he did. Isn't that correct?MR. WILSON: No, I don't believe so. I believe-- I believe that what is appealed from is the decisionand not the reasons for the decision.QUESTION: Mr. Wilson, in -- in answer toJustice Scalia's question about hunting through the wholerecord, wouldn't counsel, notified about the .requirement, say, judges, you don't have to read throughthe whole record? I'm putting it all in front of you, theexact words. It will maybe be two or three pages, but nota whole record. Shouldn't the attorney be able to, inthis very case, in a matter of a few pages say where --where it was in the transcript? MR. WILSON: Except that compliance with .doesn't -- doesn't require you to be able to trace itthrough the record, but rather that you presented it allat once to the trial judge and that you did so with somecredible reason to believe that what was being assertedwas so.Your Honors, -- months after this -- afterthe denial of the continuance occurred, they appearedbefore this very same trial judge to hear the motion for anew trial. No explanation was given to that judge. Nobetter or further showing was provided. Even the simplestfact like the -- like that they were available and able to testify the very next day in Kansas City was not offeredto this trial judge. There was no due process claimbefore this trial judge either at trial or on the motionfor new trial, and he had no facts to believe that he haddone anything other than what was fundamentally fair underthat circumstance on the circumstances as they had beenpresented to him in the context of the motion for acontinuance.Thank you. QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. Wilson. Ms. Vergeer, you have minutes remaining. REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF BONNIE I. ROBIN-VERGEERON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERMS. VERGEER: Just a few quick points. Withrespect to the proffer and somebody being willing to puttheir credibility on the line, the defendant actually tookthe stand during the -- the colloquy on the continuance. He was sworn, which actually you would think is a superiorform of proof to an affidavit, and there he was subject tocross-examination by the prosecutor, if there had been anyquestions. She didn't have any other than to clarify thatthe witnesses had been under subpoena, which they hadbeen. And -- and so, I -- I think that the -- that wholelike of inquiry about whether somebody is willing to sortof swear to facts in support of the motion sort of falls by the wayside because he was on the stand.In addition, in terms of what -- what all theplayers in the sea knew about -- about these witnesses,there's a rule. It's rule . of the Missouri rulesthat requires a notice of an alibi to be given. Apparently one was given because the prosecutor cameprepared in her opening statement to address briefly thefact that there was an alibi defense that she expected tobe presented. And in addition, the detectives interviewedthese witnesses while they were in Kansas City and tookstatements from them, and if there was any question later,as the record developed further in Federal court, aboutwhether these witnesses really would have said what --what they said they were going to say, the State hadwhatever notes or statements that was taken from theinterviews that were done with these witnesses. QUESTION: Ms. Robin-Vergeer, was any dueprocess argument ever raised at the motion for a new triallevel?MS. VERGEER: At the motion for a new trial, thedefendant argued the denial of the brief continuance andthe denial of the arrest warrant to enforce the subpoenas-- argued that that denied the defendant a fair trial. Due Process Clause was specifically mentioned in the post- conviction motion and on appeal in the Missouri Court ofAppeals.QUESTION: Well, in the post-convictionproceeding, as I recall, what was raised was ineffectiveassistance of counsel primarily.MS. VERGEER: Actually, it -- it was both. Inthe amended post-conviction motion and -- and the relevantpassage is on page of the joint appendix and itcontinues through page -- the defendant specificallyargued that movant was denied his rights to due process oflaw and to the effective assistance of counsel guaranteedby the Sixth and Fourteenth Amendments when -- and then itsort of recites, and it -- and it goes along and says --and talks about, A, the fact that someone told thewitnesses to leave and, B, that the trial court overruledthe -- the defense motion for a continuance. So -- so,the Due Process Clause is -- is explicitly stated thereand -- and thereafter.If there are no further questions. CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: Thank you, Ms.Vergeer.The case is submitted.(Whereupon, at : p.m., the case in theabove-entitled matter was submitted.) 