 IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XDAVID R. McKUNE, WARDEN, ET AL., :Petitioners :v. : No. -ROBERT G. LILE :- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XWashington, D.C.Wednesday, November , The above-entitled matter came on for oralargument before the Supreme Court of the United States at: a.m.APPEARANCES:STEPHEN R. McALLISTER, ESQ. Lawrence, Kansas; on behalf ofthe Petitioners.GREGORY G. GARRE, ESQ., Assistant to the SolicitorGeneral, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; onbehalf of the United States, as amicus curia,supporting the Petitioners.MATTHEW J. WILTANGER, Topeka, Kansas; on behalf of theRespondent. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC C O N T E N T SORAL ARGUMENT OF STEPHEN R. McALLISTER, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioners ORAL ARGUMENT OFGREGORY G. GARRE, ESQ.On behalf of the United States, as amicus curiae,supporting the Petitioners ORAL ARGUMENT OFMATTHEW J. WILTANGER, ESQ.On behalf of the Respondent REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OFSTEPHEN R. McALLISTER, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioners PAGE th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC P R O C E E D I N G S(: a.m.)CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: We'll hear argumentnext in Number -, David R. McKune v. Robert G. Lile.Mr. McAllister.ORAL ARGUMENT OF STEPHEN R. McALLISTERON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERSMR. McALLISTER: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court:Choices have consequences, but they nonethelessremain choices. The mere withdrawal of prison privilegessuch as a personal television or how much an inmate mayspend at the canteen, privileges which are not part of aninmate's sentence and to which an inmate has no legalentitlement, does not amount to constitutional compulsionin violation of the Fifth Amendment, certainly not whenthe reason for the withdrawal of those privileges is theinmate's failure to comply with an unquestionablylegitimate treatment requirement that he acceptresponsibility for his offenses.QUESTION: The problem, though, is he's forced,in effect, to confront the treatment possibility. It'snot an option. I mean, the tough part of the case for me,I think, is the fact that this is not a scheme, as Iunderstand the Federal scheme, in which the inmate says, I th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC want to take advantage of this treatment program. This isa scheme in which the State says, you're going to takeadvantage of it, and if you don't take advantage of it,including the admissions in the reports of other offenses,and so on, you're going to lose substantial privileges. That, to me, is the tough part of the case.MR. McALLISTER: That's true, Justice Souter,and our program does differ from the Federal program inthat respect, but it is still a choice for Mr. Lile. Hedoes not have to incriminate himself in any way. Hisrefusal to participate is not at all incriminating, andwhat we're talking about in terms of what he may lose hereare really relatively mild incentives within the prison --QUESTION: I thought that the participationrequired the prisoner to describe previous offenses thathe may have been --MR. McALLISTER: If he participates.QUESTION: -- committed.MR. McALLISTER: If he participates.QUESTION: That he may have committed if heparticipates.MR. McALLISTER: Right, but what I'm saying is,if he simply refuses to participate, there's noincrimination whatsoever, nothing drawn from that. Hesimply -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: But what happens if he refuses? Ishe put in a different type of confinement with differentterms and conditions?MR. McALLISTER: He can be, yes, and he willcertainly, with our privilege incentive level system, asthe inmates work their way through they have moreprivileges, and they're in the nature of how much they canspend at the canteen --QUESTION: Well, everybody goes in presumably atthe same level.MR. McALLISTER: They start at intake.QUESTION: You're screened, and you start at thesame level of control.MR. McALLISTER: Yes.QUESTION: Now, the prisoner says no, I don'twant to participate in that program. Does that mean thathe stays in that opening level, or is he then potentiallyput in something even more severe than that?MR. McALLISTER: The Kansas regulations say, ifan inmate is recommended for this treatment program and herefuses, he goes from level to level . Mr. Lile is atlevel because when we adopted this incentive schemeseveral years ago we grandfathered in all the inmates atthe highest level, so we started them out with the level privileges, which is the highest they can achieve in th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC prison, and it was then theirs to lose by not complyingwith rules and committing disciplinary infractions, and soforth, so he was at level , and when he refused toparticipate he then comes down to level .QUESTION: Is that where he is today?MR. McALLISTER: Well, he's actually not,because he got an injunction against -- in this caseagainst actually carrying out this program.QUESTION: In the future --QUESTION: So is he still incarcerated?MR. McALLISTER: Yes, he is.QUESTION: And he's at level ?MR. McALLISTER: Level , yes.QUESTION: In the future, what's at issue is notbeing deprived a benefit you already have, but of notgiving you benefits that you don't have?MR. McALLISTER: Well, I --QUESTION: I mean, the reason he's being choppeddown from to was that he was grandfathered.MR. McALLISTER: He was grandfathered in.QUESTION: But in the future, he would simplynot make it from to and from to , if he didn't gointo the program?MR. McALLISTER: Very possibly. I mean, verypossibly. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: Because there's been some disputebetween you and the other side as to whether this issimply the denial of a benefit or a punishment, and I'mnot sure there's a whole lot of difference, but --MR. McALLISTER: And in the context of theprison --QUESTION: -- for the grandfathered people itlooks more like a punishment, chopping him down to , butin the future, at least, he just doesn't get promoted from to to .MR. McALLISTER: That's certainly a possibility,and one thing about --QUESTION: You say it's a possibility. I mean,I suppose it's always a possibility, but does the schemefor those who are not grandfathered provide that they willnever yet be on the intake level if they are a sexoffender and so on, unless they agree to this?MR. McALLISTER: No. They will progress, unlessthey have other reasons that they're not, because whathappens with this program, it's an -month program. Ourinmates are not even evaluated, typically, for releaseuntil they're years from their scheduled release date,so anybody with a sentence of any length will go severalyears in the system, working their way up if they'recomplying with what they're supposed to do. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: Well then, the only person that'sgoing to be in the position that Justice Scalia describedis the person who's been getting in trouble along the wayand never does progress. The person, I take it, like thispetitioner here is going to be in the same position asthis petitioner.MR. McALLISTER: Yes, potentially, but in ourview it doesn't matter in the prison, should not matter inthe prison context whether you view it as taking away abenefit or not bestowing a benefit, because none of theseinmates come in with an expectation to any of theseprivileges.QUESTION: Could the -- Kansas do that -- thiswith respect to a prisoner who's writing letters to theeditor, to the newspaper, complaining about prisonconditions? They say, well, this -- all this isprivileged. We don't have to give you anything. You haveno --MR. McALLISTER: I think that's a differentcase, and that probably takes the Court quickly to Turner,where the Court has addressed the --QUESTION: But why is the First Amendmentdifferent from the Self-Incrimination Clause? I mean, ifin the one case you can't disadvantage the person forexercising that constitutional right, why in the other th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC case can you? I mean --MR. McALLISTER: Two --QUESTION: -- you have the First Amendment --MR. McALLISTER: Two things, Justice Ginsburg. One, we don't think we are disadvantaging here in terms ofactually compelling him.QUESTION: But then you should say the samething about the First Amendment. You're not taking awayanything you're entitled to. You've no liberty interest,property interest, all that. If that follows, then what'swrong with saying --MR. McALLISTER: But in the First Amendmentcontext he has a right, a free speech right or a right ofaccess to the courts that may be at issue. In thiscontext, all the Fifth Amendment says is, no person shallbe compelled, so --QUESTION: As I recall it, the First Amendmentsays -- speaks of abridgement --MR. McALLISTER: Yes.QUESTION: -- right, and Fifth Amendment speaksof compulsion.MR. McALLISTER: Compulsion, that's the languagein the amendment.QUESTION: I'm concerned about the same thingJustice Ginsburg is concerned -- I have to say I can't th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC find in our cases a statement that a burden on your -- oran unconstitutional condition which involves the FifthAmendment is barred, but I'm wondering if it oughtn't tobe.Is it your -- it seems to me to follow from yourposition that every prisoner in Kansas could be told,either you confess to the crime for which you've beenconvicted and all other crimes you've committed or you goto maximum security for the rest of your time here.MR. McALLISTER: Not necessarily, JusticeKennedy.QUESTION: Because I think the State does havean interest in saying, we want to rehabilitate you, andit's best for you to confront your wrong. Would you saythe statute, or the rule I've proposed is problematic? Isit different from what you're proposing?MR. McALLISTER: I think it's potentiallydifferent, although it is potentially permissibleconstitutionally, but the question would become, what sortof legitimate valid penological interest do we have? Dowe have such an interest in having every inmate do thatfrom the day they enter prison? This is very different.QUESTION: I think you can make a betterargument.MR. McALLISTER: We could make that argument. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: It's better for people to confrontthe consequences of what they've done.MR. McALLISTER: We could make that argument,and in this case it's critical, actually --QUESTION: I'd be very troubled by that.MR. McALLISTER: Well, it's much more than thatin this case, because here the therapists are clear thatdenial is a big problem with sex offenders, and toovercome that denial we need a meaningful acceptance ofresponsibility, not an immunity that simply allows theinmate to talk with no consequence whatsoever,potentially. We need a meaningful acceptance, and that'swhat we're after here, and Mr. Lile has not questionedthat's a legitimate --QUESTION: Well, you think it can only bemeaningful if you compel them to admit to a new crime forwhich they could be prosecuted?MR. McALLISTER: Except with all due respect,Justice O'Connor, we would not say we're compelling them. We're simply giving them a choice that has some realconsequences. We want people in this program who reallywant to participate. We have a waiting list to get intothis program, so we don't need inmates in this program whoare not serious about this. We have plenty who arewilling to take advantage of the program as it's done, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC right now, and it's full, and there's a waiting list.QUESTION: Then why isn't your penalogicalinterest satisfied in confining the program to those whowant to be in it, who will not be subject to thiscompulsion, if that's what it is?I mean, your argument is that we have apenalogical interest, in effect, that justifies theseconsequences.MR. McALLISTER: Yes, we do.QUESTION: But if you could fill your programwithout even having to raise the issue that involves theseconsequences, why do you have a penalogical interest inthe insistence that gives rise to this case?MR. McALLISTER: Because these fellows haveproven that most -- or, not most, but many of them willnot voluntarily engage in this program, even though theyneed --QUESTION: I'm assuming that is so, but if youcan fill the program with people who will, why is there aninterest in effect in forcing the issue for those who donot want to do it voluntarily?MR. McALLISTER: Because we still have aninterest in rehabilitating all of these sex offenders. Just because some of them are more willing to berehabilitated doesn't mean the State does not have an th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC interest --QUESTION: Well, if the program is full, then isyour interest in simply getting statements of guilt orsomething from people who will never go into the program?MR. McALLISTER: No, and that's why he has thechoice. He can simply refuse. He could refuse, andthere's no incrimination if he refuses to participate, butwhat he's doing is taking up a bed in the medium part ofthe facility, which is overcrowded at this point, inessence double-celled everyone, and the medium unit is aworking unit. The medium unit is for people who areactively involved in prison programs, and so we just don'thave the space. If you're not going to work at yourprograms, we'll move you. That's what we're trying to dowith Mr. Lile.QUESTION: But it's not a voluntary program,it's a conscription system. What you -- first, I'd likeyou to go back to the rehabilitation thing, because thatis an aim, an aspiration for every prisoner, and you madevery strongly the point that the first step inrehabilitation is acceptance of responsibility. If that'sso, I don't see why you -- this -- you could not do thiswith every prisoner who enters.You could say, take responsibility by confessingthat you did what you were accused of doing, no matter th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC what your defense was. Two, tell us about all your othernefarious deeds. You apply this to sex offenders, but thereasons that you did seem to me to be across the board. Is there any distinction, any constitutional distinctionthat you would make, or are you saying yes, we could dothis in the case of every prisoner?MR. McALLISTER: If there's -- as long asthere's a deter -- a legitimate penalogical interest, yes,potentially we could. We don't. We're only focused onthe sex offenders here, but if there's a legitimate reasonto do it, potentially --QUESTION: Well, let's take out the if, becauseis there or isn't there? Is it -- in the case of everyonethat you incarcerate there is an interest inrehabilitating that person.MR. McALLISTER: Absolutely.QUESTION: And you have said that the first stepin rehabilitation is acceptance of responsibility for thewrong that you've done.MR. McALLISTER: Yes.QUESTION: But you also rely, don't you, Mr.McAllister, on the fact that the therapists for thisparticular type of crime have come down very hard on theidea, and I take it perhaps there may not be the same bodyof support for that sort of treatment for other offenders. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. McALLISTER: And there's certainly not, forexample, treatment programs necessarily for burglars orrobbers or other categories. The sex offender program issomewhat special in that respect.QUESTION: But constitutionally, if suddenlysomebody got a good idea here and a psychiatrist cameforward saying yes, you can reform property criminals too,we'd be in exactly the same boat.MR. McALLISTER: Yes, potentially, and that'snot, in our view, a constitutional problem, because thisCourt has long said none of the things we're talking abouthere are atypical in prison. The inmates have noparticular expectation of a particular set of livingconditions within prison. Meachum v. Fano is very clear. They could be transferred from one prison to another forwhatever reason or no reason at all, without violating theConstitution. This is a very mild incentive program totry to get these fellows to meaningfully participate inthe program.QUESTION: The kind of conundrum that puzzles methat I don't have an answer to is illustrated by the trialprocess itself. I suppose the Government couldn'tpossibly say, if you insist on your right to a jury trial,and insist on your right to remain silent, we're going tosentence you to more years in jail. But the Government th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC can say, if you confess, and don't go to trial, and showtrue contrition, we'll give you years less. That'swritten into the guidelines.But they seem to come to the same thing. Well,that seems to be true of this case, and if I couldunderstand how to analyze the first, I might be able tounderstand how to analyze the second.MR. McALLISTER: Well, Justice Breyer, to saythe first is different, or in essence we're different,because all of our -- this takes place inside the prison. The expectations are quite different. That's why wediscuss Sandin in the briefs, not because it isnecessarily transportable to the Fifth Amendment, but whatSandin recognizes is prisons are very different, and whatthe expectations are, what the hardships are is just avery different situation than free citizens, and what theymay be confronted within the way of choices.QUESTION: You are saying you can have twoclasses of prisoners, those who have confessed to theircrimes and those who haven't, and you can treat themdifferently, no TV, no meat at lunch, no recreation, nosoftball, and it seems to me the necessary consequence ofthat for a prisoner facing a long term is that it's goingto induce confessions from innocent people.MR. McALLISTER: Except, Justice Kennedy -- it th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC may do that, but our program, just like the Federalprogram, has pretty strict confidentiality limits. Basically there's a patient-therapist privilege thatoperates here, and the only reason -- they're given a formright up front that says the only reasons the therapistwill disclose anything that's disclosed to the therapist,very limited, things that deal with safety within theprison, threats to other inmates --QUESTION: Mr. --QUESTION: I thought you conceded -- youconceded that a prosecutor, say, in the sexual history --he says, I committed X, Y, Z rapes -- that a prosecutor,as long as there's no statute of limitations problem, inKansas -- unlike, as I understand the Federal program is,a prosecutor could say, okay, now we're going to indictyou for that.MR. McALLISTER: My understanding is they coulddo that in the Federal program as well, because there's noimmunity granted under the Federal program either, so ifthey actually made a statement, the Federal program couldprosecute them just like we could. We have not, in years of this program.QUESTION: Yes, but under the Federal programthey don't suffer any loss of anything if they don't makethe statement and under yours, they do. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. McALLISTER: That's true, but --QUESTION: But under yours, in any case, whetherthe Feds do it or not, under yours the prosecutor coulduse that information, couldn't he?MR. McALLISTER: Could. We never have, butcould, yes, theoretically could.QUESTION: May I ask you, Mr. McAllister, do youknow -- there's similar programs in a lot of States, as Iunderstand it. Do any of them give the inmate immunity ifhe participates in the program?MR. McALLISTER: Justice Stevens, it's myunderstanding that some may, although I don't know theexact number, and I do know from the State amicus briefthe States that signed onto that obviously thinkimmunity is a bad idea and, as I said, the FederalGovernment does not immunize the inmates who participatein the Federal program.QUESTION: I understand the Federal Governmentdoes not, yes.MR. McALLISTER: Yes.QUESTION: Of those, how many are like Kansas? That is, it isn't a voluntary thing?MR. McALLISTER: Justice Ginsburg, I don't knowthe answer to that. I don't know exactly what theirprograms are like. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Ours was the first of its kind in some sensewhen we implemented this program, so some may havefollowed our model, but I don't know for sure.With the Court's permission, I'd like toremain -- reserve the remainder of my time.QUESTION: Very well, Mr. McAllister.Mr. Garre, we'll hear from you.ORAL ARGUMENT OF GREGORY G. GARREON BEHALF OF THE UNITED STATES, AS AMICUS CURIAE,SUPPORTING THE PETITIONERSQUESTION: Mr. Garre, why does the FederalGovernment not think it a good idea to grant immunity?MR. GARRE: Justice Scalia, the FederalGovernment has a very limited program that applies in onlyone facility Nation-wide, and it has made a determinationto allow for voluntary participation among convictedsexual offenders in that program.Now, in our view that is a judgment that thisCourt's decisions clearly enable the Federal Bureau ofPrisons to make, and we think that the Kansas prisonofficials have acted within their judgment to adopt adifferent kind of program. As the therapists allacknowledge, denial is one of the biggest obstacles toreceiving treatment in these kinds of programs, and Ithink it's important for the Court to recognize -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: Are you going to get around theanswering my question? Why did the Federal Governmentthink it not a good idea to grant immunity in its program?MR. GARRE: Oh, the Federal Government reservesthe right of the same confidentiality limits that theState does, that is, to deal with offenses that threatensinstitutional security, to deal with suspected cases ofchild abuse, to deal with suspected cases of harm toindividuals within the prison or outside of the prisons. Those confidentiality limits are clearly related tolegitimate penalogical interests, and we think that theFederal Government --QUESTION: Only those things can be prosecuted? I thought that it -- that prosecution was available foranything that was disclosed, although there wasconfidentiality.MR. GARRE: That's right. The confidentialitylimits work in conjunction --QUESTION: Those are confidentiality limits, notimmunity limits, right?MR. GARRE: That's right.QUESTION: So the Federal Government has notgiven use immunity for anybody in the program.MR. GARRE: And that's absolutely clear from thewaiver of the confidentiality statement that inmates sign th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC before they enrol in the program, and we think thatparticularly where you're dealing with a program that doesclearly promote legitimate penalogical interests inrehabilitating a class of offenders that poses a uniquerisk of recidivism upon their release, that States, themere fact that the State doesn't grant immunity to inmateswho participate does not provide an answer to theconstitutional problem.QUESTION: The Feds --QUESTION: Well, does the Federal Governmentdeprive the prisoner of any benefits or programs if herefuses to engage in the program?MR. GARRE: The Federal Government doesn't applythe same incentive schemes that the State of Kansas doesfor participation.QUESTION: Are there any? What are theincentives in the Federal program?MR. GARRE: The incentives -- the overridingincentive is, of course, the value of the treatment thatthe inmate receives. Now, once a --QUESTION: But not -- nothing is threatened orcarried out in the Federal program to deprive thenonconsenting prisoner of any privilege, is that right?MR. GARRE: Well, that's true up front in termsof the incentive scheme. Now, once an inmate is in the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC program, and if he chooses not to comply with theacceptance of responsibility goals, the inmate can betransferred back to his parent facility and that can besomething on its record, but certainly up front --QUESTION: The choice to go into the program isstrictly the inmates. There's no coercion or inducement. He loses nothing if he chooses not to go in, is thatcorrect?MR. GARRE: That's the way the Federal Bureau ofPrisons --QUESTION: Is it a more desirable facility?MR. GARRE: It is at a more desirable facility.QUESTION: So what he loses is, he doesn't -- heisn't -- he doesn't get out of the rotten place he's in toa better facility, right?MR. GARRE: I think that's right, and I thinkit's important --QUESTION: But he doesn't lose a benefit that hecurrently has?MR. GARRE: Well, we don't -- we think that theprivileges that we're talking about in the case of Kansas,TV ownership, personal TV in the cell, visitationprivileges beyond immediate family, and lawyers, canteenexpenditures, these aren't the sorts of things --QUESTION: The right to work, the right to take th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC other programs in the prison?MR. GARRE: The privileges are reduced. I thinkthat the chart that's on page of the joint appendixexplains how they're reduced.QUESTION: Substantial reduction in how much youcan earn in prison, what jobs you can do in prison, isn'tthat so?MR. GARRE: There is a definite reduction, andthe flip side of that is Kansas reserves the higherprivileges, the more modern facilities to those inmateswho choose to take the constructive steps towardsreentering society.QUESTION: Okay, but there's no --QUESTION: Mr. Garre --QUESTION: There's no reduction in the Federalsystem, is that correct?MR. GARRE: There's no -- the Federal systemcurrently doesn't employ the same earnable privilegescheme that the Kansas prison does.QUESTION: We're trying to be specific about it. As I think we think we understand it, the inmate cannotlose privileges that the inmate currently enjoys simply byexercising the option not to enter the program. Are wecorrect?MR. GARRE: That's correct, except that the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC inmate can be sent back to his parent facility.QUESTION: Yes, but you have said -- you said inyour opening statement, and you seem to be backing awayfrom it, you said the Federal program is a voluntaryprogram.MR. GARRE: As is --QUESTION: It's not a voluntary program, atleast not for the people like --MR. GARRE: Well --QUESTION: That's sort of the issue here, isn'tit?MR. GARRE: With respect, we think that that isthe issue. I mean, we're not talking about losingsomeone's job, or means of livelihood, the consequencefaced by free individuals in the penalty cases thatrespondents relied upon. We're talking about loss ofinstitutional privileges that inmates have no expectationof enjoying once they enter the prison. We think that theprison context is key to evaluating the Fifth Amendmentclaim in this case.QUESTION: Let me ask you this, Mr. Garre. Maybeyou can give me some help with the larger question that'sbothering me and I think underlies Justice Ginsburg'sfirst question. The rule of unconstitutional conditionsdoesn't seem to apply in our cases, or hasn't been applied th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC in the Fifth Amendment context. Why is that?MR. GARRE: Well, foremost because the FifthAmendment says, compelled self-incrimination. Theamendment therefore recognizes that there are some sortsof pressures or conditions short of compulsion which wouldnot meet the Fifth Amendment standard, and this Court'scases --QUESTION: Anything short of compulsion does notmeet it? That is to say, you can have two classes ofinmates, those who've confessed and those who haven't, forall of prison life?MR. GARRE: Well --QUESTION: And isn't there a danger, then, ofinducing innocent people to confess?MR. GARRE: I think that type of hypothetical ismuch different, much further afield than the program inthis case.QUESTION: Well, the Fifth Amendment doesn't sayinducing, does it, it says compelling.MR. GARRE: It says compelling, that's exactlyright, and that's supported by the text and history andpurpose of the amendment.QUESTION: Mr. Garre, don't we in fact have twoclasses in all prison systems, those who have pleadedguilty and have gotten a relatively short sentence by th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC reason of their guilty plea for a particular crime, andthose who have refused to plead guilty and have gotten alonger sentence because of their refusal to do so, for thesame crime?MR. GARRE: That's --QUESTION: You have two classes in prison.MR. GARRE: That's absolutely --QUESTION: I mean, not just not being able tospend as much at the PX, but they're there for another years.MR. GARRE: That's correct, and I think it'simportant for the Court to recognize that these sorts ofearnable daily privileges like TV ownership, canteenexpenditures, and housing in preferred facilities areamong the most common tools the prison administrators useto manage order in the prison environment and to encourageinmates to take socially constructive steps. This Court'scases like Sandin and Meachum and Bell v.Wolfish recognizethat once someone is lawfully incarcerated, that bringsabout a necessary withdrawal of many rights and privilegesconsistent with the needs of day-to-day management.QUESTION: So is compulsion anything other thanphysical, or psychological?MR. GARRE: Oh, sure. Sure.QUESTION: So what would be -- I mean, in -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC outside prison we know, at least this Court's precedenthas said losing your membership in the bar, losing yourjob, that counts as compulsion, even though no one isputting you on the rack and screw.MR. GARRE: And we think -- we agree with JudgeFriendly and others who have suggested that those caseslie at the outer reaches of this Court's Fifth Amendmentjurisprudence, and we think that the denial of the sortsof common, routine privileges at issue in this case, TVprivileges, canteen expenditures, don't even come close.QUESTION: How about loss of visitingprivileges? That could be crucial to a prisoner.MR. GARRE: Well, it's not a complete loss ofthis case. Again, the chart on page of the jointappendix in the case that --QUESTION: Suppose it were. I mean, there aresome of these things that must mean all the difference inthe world to someone who's incarcerated.MR. GARRE: Well, I mean, the further the Courtgoes out in that direction, then obviously at some pointthat program would be more difficult to defend under theTurner v. --QUESTION: That's the Kansas program. --MR. GARRE: -- analysis.QUESTION: They want to offer no limit on what th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC they can do here. They can prosecute for a new crime thatmight be disclosed, and they can deprive the prisoner ofall visiting privileges and all kinds of things.MR. GARRE: Well, with respect, we don't thinkthat that's the Kansas program. The Kansas program offersincentives by withholding privileges from those inmateswho choose not to take socially constructive steps. It'simportant to recognize that no one disputes that therehabilitation program in this case is designed to servelegitimate penalogical interests. There's widespreadagreement the sexual offender treatment programs benefitsinmates and society alike by enabling convictedoffenders --QUESTION: But it just sounds like a basicdifference. As I understand your description in the oneFederal program, it sounds like if the prisoner says no, Iwon't participate, the prisoner goes back to the facilityof origin and can still, over time, earn variousprivileges, and Kansas is telling us in their scheme no,they reserve the right to deprive the prisoner of anyprivilege thereafter during his term in prison, and to put him in a more severe condition of incarceration.MR. GARRE: Well, again, I would disagree withthe characterization of the Kansas program, but moreimportantly we think that the judgment made by the Federal th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Bureau of Prison and the judgment made by the Kansasprison officials are well within the range of decisionsthat this Court's prison decision --QUESTION: Even if I'm correct in mydescription?MR. GARRE: Your description presents adifferent situation.QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. Garre.Mr. Wiltanger, we'll hear from -- is itWiltanger, or Wiltanger.QUESTION: It's Wiltanger, Your HonorQUESTION: Wiltanger. Mr. Wiltanger, we'll hearfrom you.ORAL ARGUMENT OF MATTHEW J. WILTANGERON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTMR. WILTANGER: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court:If you're a prisoner in Kansas and you commit arape while in prison, you get the same penalties that Mr.Lile gets. If you're a prisoner in Kansas and you commitarson in your cell or somewhere in the prison, you get thesame penalties that Mr. Lile gets. If you commit a theft,you get the same penalties.QUESTION: You mean, someone who commits arsonin prison gets only those penalties? He isn't prosecuted th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC for committing arson?MR. WILTANGER: There could be a potentialprosection if they turn him over --QUESTION: That might --QUESTION: Like a number more years in jail.MR. WILTANGER: That could be, Your Honor.QUESTION: That's quite different.MR. WILTANGER: But under the State system theyget moved down to the same level that Mr. Lile is, and infact their punishment could be worse, because --QUESTION: And I expect the arsonist considersthat he least of his worries.QUESTION: When you say punishment, you assumeyour answer in your favor. What I'd like to know is, theway they characterize it, basically, is that you come inwithout anything. Indeed, your client went -- he startedoff in a maximum security part of the prison with a mediumsecurity bed, or at least he could have done, and thenwhat happens is, people who participate in treatmentprograms get bonuses, privileges, and if you don'tparticipate in the treatment program, well, obviously youdon't get the privilege. Now, that's theircharacterization of it, basically.Yours is, well, if you start treatment and youstop, you get punished. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Now, you're both describing the same thing, butit sounds as if it has very different consequences, andhow are we supposed to say which is the correctdescription, the appropriate characterization?MR. WILTANGER: I think the difference, YourHonor, is somewhat illustrated by the Government'sattorney in that this is not voluntary, and that once youachieve a level -- the State has set up a structure, YourHonor, under which if you're good, you do your job, youget to a certain level, and that's for everybody. Theyhave rules on this, and Mr. Lile did that. He got to thatlevel. He had achieved something.And what the State does is, it comes along andsays, well, if you don't give up your Fifth Amendmentrights, and if you don't tell us about all these otheruncharged crimes, we're taking that away from you. You'llno longer have it. You'll lose your job.QUESTION: Is that true, or is it true thattheir system is, you will be awarded privileges as long asyou participate in treatment, but our privileges are openonly to people who participate in treatment?MR. WILTANGER: I would disagree with that, YourHonor.QUESTION: All right, because?MR. WILTANGER: Because people in the prison th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC system who do not participate in treatment get the sameprivileges. They get to get to that level, not just --QUESTION: Why did he lose his?MR. WILTANGER: Why did he lose his privileges? Well, he hasn't, technically, Your Honor, lost hisprivileges --QUESTION: No, no --QUESTION: What about non sex offenders --MR. WILTANGER: Non sex offenders --QUESTION: -- who have no ability to go into theprogram?prisoner.MR. WILTANGER: Have no ability, but other --QUESTION: That's a different category ofMR. WILTANGER: But there could be other sexoffenders in the prison who are not required to take SATP,for example, if there was a -- if for some reason therewas a statutory rape penalty they may not be required totake SATP, but yes, all prisoners in the system, sexoffenders, murderers, arsonists, get a chance to get --QUESTION: What case from our Court, or whatcases do you think most strongly support your position?MR. WILTANGER: Your Honor, I think the cases ofGarrity, Gardner, Cunningham support --QUESTION: We're talking about loss of job in a th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC civilian society. Do you think the denials here are ofthat consequence?MR. WILTANGER: I do, Your Honor.QUESTION: Why?MR. WILTANGER: Specifically as to the job, Mr.Lile, if -- any inmate in the prison system in Kansas, ifthey were, for example, in minimum security can work anoutside job. They obviously can't leave, but they couldgo pick up trash along the road and they could makewhatever the employer is going to pay them. Say -- assumeit's $ an hour. Maybe it's not that much. They can keepthat money. If they don't keep all of it, they pay someto the prison, they pay some to victims' restitution, butif they lose their job, under the Kansas structure theywill never get to work a job that is even equivalent tothat.QUESTION: You're talking about a situationwhere in civilian life the person who loses his job loseshis livelihood, basically. Certainly that's not true in aprison. This man is going to eat whether he does it ornot.MR. WILTANGER: He will eat, Your Honor, but atthe same time a policeman on guard or a policeman on dutycould go out and get another job and earn something, anequivalent wage, or possibly even a better wage. Mr. Lile th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC can't.QUESTION: Mr. McAllister, I am very, very --QUESTION: Mr. Wiltanger.QUESTION: Oh, I'm sorry, Mr. Wiltanger -- I amvery reluctant to extend our expansive notion of whatconstitutes compulsion to the area of criminal law andpenology for this simple reason. Why does the situationof your client differ from the situation of the personwho's been arrested for first degree order, and the caseis put to him by the prosecutor, you know, I'll go aheadwith this prosecution for first degree murder. You willbe in prison for life. On the other hand, if you confessthat you are guilty of voluntary manslaughter, you'll geta -year term. Now, has that person been compelled toplead guilty to voluntary manslaughter?MR. WILTANGER: No, they haven't, Your Honor.QUESTION: But that's -- you know, either you doit, or you're going to get life.MR. WILTANGER: I don't -- Your Honor, our viewis not -- is that that is not compulsion, because what isbeing extended to the murder suspect is a benefit, someway to improve your lot.In this situation, for example, if the Statewanted to -- what they're doing -- it's not Mr. Lile'scase, because he was convicted before , but if you're th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC convicted after you can be stripped of your good-time credit. They take it away from you. If, on theother hand, the State decided that what we're going to dofor those inmates who are participating in the program isextend their good-time credit or make their situationbetter, or give them a benefit, I don't think that's -- Idon't think that would be --QUESTION: It's almost a play on words, then.QUESTION: Well, yes, just start them off in theworst situation and just say, you know --QUESTION: That certainly doesn't benefitprisoners as a class.QUESTION: The Constitution surely can't turn onthat, whether you characterize it as giving them a benefitor depriving them of a benefit they --MR. WILTANGER: Well, the Constitution obviouslyprohibits any kind of sanction for the invocation of yourFifth Amendment rights.QUESTION: Mr. Wiltanger, you said it in yourbrief, and I wanted to make sure that it really is yourposition. You said, here is a man with a certain set ofprivileges. They take that away, and that's compulsion,but if you started everyone -- you didn't say everyone,you said every sex offender goes in at level , the lowestlevel, and never gets out of that unless he signs up for th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC this program with all its terms and conditions. Thatperson you say is not being compelled because for him it'snot achieving privileges rather than having privilegestaken away.Is that -- do you adhere to that distinction,that the State of Kansas could do exactly what it's doingnow if it said, Mr. Wiltanger and all sexual offenders,you go in at level and you never get out of it unlessyou take this program?MR. WILTANGER: Your Honor, I do think that'scertainly closer to the -- that would be closer to aconstitutional law. That wouldn't be unconstitutional.QUESTION: Would be, or wouldn't?MR. WILTANGER: It would not be, Your Honor.QUESTION: It would not be.MR. WILTANGER: It would not beunconstitutional.QUESTION: That's what you said in your brief.MR. WILTANGER: It would not beunconstitutional. That is our position.QUESTION: So the whole thing, then, it comesdown to, subtraction is no good. That doesn't work, butaddition is okay. I mean, you could give the personnothing in the beginning, and then the carrot is okay. Butyou can t once -- so this really says to Kansas, what th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC you re doing, the whole program is fine. The only thingis, you take this category of offender and you don t givethem anything until they take this program.MR. WILTANGER: If they could set up a system ora structure or fashion some rules -- obviously, they don'thave that now -- I don't think that would beunconstitutional.Again, I do think there is -- if the Courtdoesn't want to draw a hypertechnical distinction, that'sfine, but the Court -- the Fifth Amendment doesn'tprohibit benefiting somebody or making their life better.QUESTION: So you think the SentencingGuidelines would be invalid if, instead of the currentprovision, which gives you good points for acceptance ofresponsibility, it rather gave you bad points for refusingto accept responsibility.MR. WILTANGER: I do, Your Honor. I do.QUESTION: If that's so --QUESTION: It's a constitutional distinction.MR. WILTANGER: I do believe so, Your Honor.QUESTION: If that's so, does this case -- myunderstanding of it is that the prison created a newpolicy, and that policy was that everybody was at level unless you participate in a recommended program, that thatwas their new policy, but that your client was th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC grandfathered in at level because he was in prison atthe time, and so this case in your opinion turns on thefact that we're dealing with one of the few prisoners whowas grandfathered in, and therefore it's a taking awayrather than being a new prisoner who would have started atlevel , in which case it would have been added on.MR. WILTANGER: Not exactly, Your Honor.QUESTION: Because?MR. WILTANGER: Because all inmates -- therewere not just inmates at level who were grandfatheredin. Every single inmate who enters the prison system canget to level , and as opposing counsel --QUESTION: Even without participating in arecommended program?MR. WILTANGER: Absolutely. Absolutely.QUESTION: But then they changed the rule andsaid, if you don't participate in the recommended program,you can't get to level . Is that right?MR. WILTANGER: If -- they have not changed therule. That is not the current rule. The current ruleis -- and the way that SATP, or the sex offender treatmentis structured is, you don't really become eligible to takeit or forced to take it until about years before yourfirst parole date, so by that time -- especially in Mr.Lile's case. He's been in prison for years -- most th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC inmates are going to be at that level , so while he wasgrandfathered in, most inmates, when they get eligible orare forced to take it are going to be at level .There has been no change in policy. The Stateis now not saying that you don't get from level to level unless you participate in SATP. The law still is, ifyou're at level , you're going to level , and you'regoing to go to maximum security, and you're going to staythere forever.Again, the reference I was making at the firstis, the arsonist --QUESTION: That's -- this is a product of the --they don't have the facility to give this course toeveryone, so they say, when you're getting closer torelease time, you get it, so most people who were in assexual offenders don't have the opportunity.MR. WILTANGER: Well, the State wants all --wants their sex offenders to take it. There is a littlebit of a concern response, but what they do is, they movepeople around to make sure that those people who arecoming out --QUESTION: But not their first year, from what Iunderstand.MR. WILTANGER: No, Your Honor. I apologize ifI misspoke. You would not be entering into sex offender th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC treatment your first year, typically.QUESTION: But your brief described a systemwhere, suppose we had all sex offenders, they go in atlevel unless they take the program. That's somethingthat doesn't exist in the current world only because of alack of resources, that Kansas can't give this program toall the people who would qualify, so it concentrates onthe people who have served a substantial part of theirsentence already.MR. WILTANGER: That is correct, and pleaseunderstand, Your Honor, that that is only one possiblesolution that would allow the State to continue to run itsSATP. Obviously, another solution, as set forth by theTenth Circuit, would be immunity.Another thing, to follow the program that theFederal Government runs, make it voluntary. Extract nopenalties, and punish no one if they don't want toparticipate in the program, or take away the admission ofresponsibility, or take away the need --QUESTION: The second one is no solution. TheState wants people to take it. They think it's importantfor the rehabilitation of the people and for the safety ofsociety. They do want to exert some pressure for peopleto go into it. The question is whether this pressure issomehow unconstitutional when you deprive the person of th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC nothing to which he's entitled, nothing to which he hadany expectation of receiving when he goes into prison. Hecould have been kept at level for his whole periodthere.MR. WILTANGER: Your Honor, I agree with that. The one distinction I would make is, the State has set upa system by which prisoners understand that if they docertain things they get to levels. While there may not bea constitutional liberty interest in it, they do know thatif they follow the rules they're going to get to thislevel.But as far as addressing your first point,immunity would be the result then. If you had to haveeverybody in the program, if there was no other option,then you would extend them immunity, or the other solutioncould be, if you wanted everyone in the program, don'tmake them admit guilt to their crime. Don't make themcatalogue every offense that they've never been chargedwith. Don't then use a polygraph test to sit down andferret out and make sure that you've got every single pastcrime. That would be one solution beyond simple immunity.QUESTION: But that's a solution that isn'tconsistent with the therapist's idea that this is how itshould be done.MR. WILTANGER: Potentially, Your Honor. I th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC mean, the State has not always required a writtenadmission of responsibility. It's only been within thepast years that they've required that. But you'recorrect, the therapists apparently believe that you haveto have an admission of responsibility. I'm not sure whyit has to be a written statement where you fess everythingup.QUESTION: But certainly the Constitution can'tturn on whether or not a written statement is required.MR. WILTANGER: I -- Your Honor, I agree, thatis correct.QUESTION: Do you know -- I asked your opponentthis question -- the extent to which other States havegranted immunity to solve this problem?MR. WILTANGER: There are a couple of Statesthat I know off-hand, Your Honor. California and Kentuckyhave confidentiality provisions, privileges that keep allof this stuff kept within. I don't believe it's amajority of the States that do that. I wish I had abetter answer. I do believe Kansas is the only State thatrequires all this additional ferreting out of additionalinformation.QUESTION: Well, if the -- the programs areimportant, I take it, really important, and they'rethinking that this is a very important way to run them, I th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC give them that, all right. Now, if I take yourapproach -- and I find this very difficult. I take yourapproach, and I try to distinguish between what's the add-on as a privilege and the subtraction as a penalty, now myconcern would be, I'm now facing a nightmare of varyingsituations in prisons across the country, and varyingefforts to say what's the status quo in respect to aparticular prisoner, what is an add-on as opposed to asubtraction, and the arguments are infinite. Now, whatcould you say that would relieve me of that concern?MR. WILTANGER: Well, first, Your Honor, if thisCourt doesn't want to get drawn into a benefit versus apunishment distinction, you don't have to follow that forthis rule. That is the position that we mentioned in thebrief, that there is -- that we feel there is a differencebetween a benefit and a punishment.But I also don't think that there will be a rashof litigation. The Supreme Court law, obviously, as youknow, speaks to sanctions, speak to penalty, anything thatmakes your indication of your Fifth Amendment rightscostly, and we've have that rule for quite sometime, andcertainly there have been cases that have come down sincethen where you look at it and decide, well, is he beingpenalized, so again I'm -- I apologize if I'm sticking toa hypertechnical distinction, but I do believe that the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC law would not really complicate matters, and that there isnot going to be a rash of litigation where --QUESTION: Well, you didn't answer the question,though, and I have the same problem Justice Breyer does. I don't know that we can distinguish between a benefit anda sanction. I don't know that that's a line that at theend of the day is going to be a good line, so what otherline do you offer?MR. WILTANGER: Well, I do believe thatsanction -- or what you can look at is, you could look atthis Court's ruling as to what is a voluntary statement inthe Colman case, whether or not he's being able to make anunconstrained choice. Now --QUESTION: Why not look to what Sandin looked toin -- true, not in the context of the Fifth Amendment, butin another context, and that is whether you have beendeprived of in prison is beyond what is the normalexpectation of prison life.MR. WILTANGER: Your Honor, I think that does acouple of things, and why we disagree with Sandin. Oneis, I think you're creating a new rule, whereas I think wealready have a fine rule that works in the Fifth Amendmentarena, and if we're concerned about applying a FifthAmendment rule in the prison system --QUESTION: No, no, we don't have a rule that th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC applies in the Fifth Amendment arena with regard todepriving people of things to which they are not entitledas free citizens. When you deprive someone of a job, heisn't entitled to that job. You are depriving him of someliberty that he, in fact, possessed.Your client has been deprived of no liberty towhich he was entitled, not a single liberty to which hewas entitled. He could have been kept in level for hisentire period in prison. He would have had no complaintat all, so I don't think it's parallel to the out-of-prison cases, so it seems to me we need a new rule for in-prison cases.We could have a rule that so long as you haven'tbeen deprived of a liberty to which you're entitled, therehas been no compulsion. That goes pretty far. We don'thave to go that far. We could use a line that Sandinuses, so long as what's been done to you doesn't go belowthe normal expectation of prison life. I mean, if theysaid, you either enter this program or you're going to bein solitary for the rest of your years, you know,that's beyond the normal expectation of prison life. Butwhat your client has suffered is not that, it seems to me.MR. WILTANGER: Your Honor, I would agree withyou that Mr. Lile has no liberty interest at play here,but I would also suggest that there is no liberty interest th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC in an at-will employment. This Court has previously foundthat if you're an at-will employee, you have no protectedproperty or liberty interest, and yet in those cases likethe Gardner case and the Garrity case there has been founda Fifth Amendment violation.There certainly is no liberty interest in beinga political party officer in the Cunningham case, and yetwe still have a Fifth Amendment violation.QUESTION: Don't call it liberty, call it aright. Call it a right.MR. WILTANGER: That's --QUESTION: He's entitled as a free citizen tohave that. Your client is not entitled to be in level .MR. WILTANGER: But the way that the State hasset up its structure, they have made rules that they wanteverybody working. He's entitled to have a job. Theywant him to have a job.The other reason I think Sandin doesn't work,Your Honor, is I do share some of the concern that waspreviously expressed by some of the other justices, isthat there would seem to be no reason why the Statecouldn't walk up and down the hall, or up and down thecells with a note pad and suggest, well, what's yourcrime, did you do it? I'm not really concerned at whetheryou have an appeal ongoing or not, I just want to know th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC whether you did it, and oh, by the way, please let me knoweverything else you've done.QUESTION: Okay, so we'll add to it, there hasto be -- and the State of Kansas is perfectly willing toadd to it, it has to be for a legitimate penalogicalpurpose.MR. WILTANGER: And certainly I would agree withwhat's previously said, that there could be a legitimatepenalogical purpose in confessing, in coming clean, andthat you will not be a model prisoner unless you takeresponsibility for your crime, whether it be a sex offenseor whether it be a murder.The other reason I think Sandin is notapplicable to this case, and should not be extended tothis case, is that this Court actually said in Sandin,while you don't have a due process right in a particularlevel of confinement, you do retain other protections suchas the First and the Eighth Amendment, that if we moveyou, you get moved from one place to another, you stillmay be able to bring a constitutional claim, and that'swhat Mr. Lile's done. He's been moved in response to aproper indication of his Fifth Amendment rights, and hehas brought a lawsuit against the State. He his actuallyfollowing some of the dicta in Sandin.I don't think Sandin should be extended. I do th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC think there is a potential for abuse. Why would Sandin,if you extend it, why would it necessarily be limited tothe Fifth Amendment? Is it possible that a State, if itwanted, to go around and abridge First Amendment rightsand suggest that that's --QUESTION: That's -- you see, I was thinkingabout that, and the trouble with analogies, if you get onethat's very close, you become uncertain again. I mean,suppose that the actual analogy was, there is a treatmentprogram, and the treatment program requires the prisonerto be isolated and not get any mail and not write anyletters to the newspapers for a couple of months, and theysay as part of this -- and it's totally legitimate, andthey say as part of this legitimate treatment program thatyou can't write your letter to the newspaper, that's partof the treatment, and moreover, we'll give you a privilegeif you do it.And now what happens is, they grandfather oneperson in. Now I'm back in the same -- you see, I'm backin the same dilemma. Maybe it's not quite as bad, becauseyou don't have the word compelled there, but --MR. WILTANGER: Your Honor, I agree with theconcern over the technical distinction between benefit andpenalty, but I would say in that instance, again, keep inmind that Mr. Lile's not just the sole person who's been th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC grandfathered in. He's one of many who were grandfatheredin, but --QUESTION: It's not the grandfather -- I mean,it is the grandfather, isn't it, in this case that makeshim -- you said there were some other things, and I'd liketo be sure to have them in mind, that make it a penaltyand not just the withholding of a privilege.MR. WILTANGER: Assume for the moment Mr. Lilewere not grandfathered in.QUESTION: Yes.MR. WILTANGER: Assume for the moment hearrives -- assume he committed his crime last year, and hegets sentenced to years to life tomorrow. If he wereto enter the prison system at intake level , in about years from now the State will ask him to take the sexoffender treatment. That's how it's typically planned.Mr. Lile will follow the rules that the State has set out,will follow the regulations, will be a model prisoner, asMr. Lile actually has been, and he will get all the way tolevel .QUESTION: I see.MR. WILTANGER: He will get all the way. Hewill be there, and then --QUESTION: And crash --MR. WILTANGER: -- in they say to him, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC please take SATP.QUESTION: Well, one difference, certainlybetween the First Amendment and its cases and the FifthAmendment is that there is a compulsion requirement inorder to invoke the Fifth Amendment, where the FirstAmendment doesn't have anything like that.MR. WILTANGER: I agree. They are different. They are different standards. The only point that I wastrying to raise, Your Honor, is that I think Sandin is alittle bit of a dangerous --QUESTION: I suppose --QUESTION: That's what distinguishes thedetriment and the benefit. There's a compulsion, but thenit's a detriment. The First -- Fifth Amendment doesn'tsay it shall be unlawful to bribe a witness to get him totestify. The Fifth Amendment draws the line betweenbenefits and detriments, doesn't it?MR. WILTANGER: It does, and that's again -- I'msorry.QUESTION: So the Kansas program would beperfectly okay, in your estimation, if it provided that atthe end of years of -year sentences, or yearsbefore the end of their sentence, all sex offenders shallbe reduced, all sex offenders shall be reduced to prisonlevel . th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. WILTANGER: No, Your Honor, I -- I'm --QUESTION: Why not, because then -- then if theychoose to come in this program they will be getting thebenefit of going back up to , but all of them go down to.MR. WILTANGER: I don't think that would beconstitutional, Your Honor.QUESTION: Why not?MR. WILTANGER: I think it would be set up as away to get around SATP and a way to get around theinvocation of your Fifth Amendment rights.QUESTION: Well, any --MR. WILTANGER: It would be an artifice.QUESTION: Well, of course it's an artifice, butso is the whole thing, benefit versus punishment. Imean --MR. WILTANGER: The one thing I would encouragethis Court to look at is, look at how it affects itself onthe prisoner, and again, if you're going to look at theColman case, which is -- again, is his choice anunconstrained one? Look at what is done to the inmatehere. He's never going to get back to level . Thearsonist will get back to level . The arsonist will notbe moved to maximum security. Mr. Lile is there forever.QUESTION: It's the same in my hypothetical, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC though. There's no compulsion on him. After his years in prison he's been knocked back down to . There'sno compulsion on him. He gets a benefit if he joins thisprogram.MR. WILTANGER: If it's entirely divorced fromthe program or the Fifth Amendment, Your Honor, then thatpotentially would be constitutional. I would agree withthat. But unfortunately for Mr. Lile's case, it's not howthe State has set up the structure if you get to a point,you follow the rules, you become a model prisoner, andthen you get broken down. That's what they're doing here.And again the point I was trying to make earlieris, the punishment's more severe. The Court calls -- or,excuse me, the State calls this punishment. They call itpunishment. When we're dealing with arsonists, when we'redealing with rapists, when we're dealing with somebody whosteals something, they call that punishment, but they'reunwilling to call that punishment here. It's anincentive. It's a benefit, or an extension of aprivilege, but it's not.QUESTION: You're saying to decide what iscompulsion you've got to look at how other people aretreated, in effect.The -- in your answer to Justice Scalia yousaid, you know, if everybody got knocked down within th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC years, no matter what the crime, there wouldn't be theconstitutional problem, but if only these people are, eventhough it's written into the scheme the moment they go in,there still would be a constitutional problem, and it's acomparative treatment criterion among prisoners indifferent classes of offenses that you're relying on,isn't it?MR. WILTANGER: Somewhat, Your Honor.QUESTION: Yes.MR. WILTANGER: Somewhat, and I agree, if theState had set up a strict --QUESTION: Then let me ask you to concentrate onthat question a little harder, because you did say in yourbrief that if all sex offenders -- not all prisoners, allsex offenders on day were put in class , they couldstay there, and never get out unless the carrot that wasdangled was taken. You did say sex offenders. You didn'tsay all prisoners.MR. WILTANGER: That is correct.QUESTION: So apparently you are not objectingto a distinction between classes of prisoners.MR. WILTANGER: No, Your Honor, you're correct,and again that's consistent with the view that we tookbetween the benefit and the sanction.QUESTION: So there isn't a comparative analysis th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC as between classes of prisoners depending on theiroffense.MR. WILTANGER: No, Your Honor, there isn't.QUESTION: Okay.MR. WILTANGER: I apologize if I misspoke.QUESTION: Now, I understood you the other way. That is, that you agree it would be an artifice, but ifthe State did not knock down all sex offenders to level years before they get out, then you acknowledge yourclient wouldn't have a case.MR. WILTANGER: Essentially, yes, that iscorrect. Again, that is not what we have in place here,but that is correct. That is correct. The FifthAmendment's a bedrock principle. This Court says it's themainstay of the criminal justice system, and there's nomore powerful piece of evidence than someone's confession.They ask a lot of Mr. Lile and other sexoffenders. They not only ask for the admission of guilt,they ask for everything, catalogue and give me everythingyou want, and despite what the State says, there reallyisn't a great deal of confidentiality. These records canbe subpoenaed. They have to turn these records over ifsomeone were to make an admission about a child sexualoffense. Further, these inmates are forced to discussthis stuff in group therapy session. There's no th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC confidentiality, and also to point out, the State has notappealed or contested that what it seeks is incriminatinginformation.This information, the Fifth Amendment itself, isfar too valuable that the State can go around and forcepeople to give it up and to extract penalties andpunishment for that.Thank you for your time.QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. Wiltanger.Mr. McAllister, you have minutes.REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF STEPHEN R. McALLISTERON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERSMR. McALLISTER: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice,and may it please the Court:I'd like to start, Justice O'Connor, byanswering a question you raised. Can the State simplytake away all the privileges? Absolutely not. Werecognize at some point it becomes compulsive, that thisCourt has always treated the Fifth Amendment compulsioninquiry as contextual. We're simply arguing that inprison that's a very different context from being on theoutside and losing a job or losing your law license.At some point a court could decide, if we tookaway everything from Mr. Lile, that maybe that would becompulsive, so we're not saying we can take away th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC everything, but what we're saying is, what we're usinghere is mild in the way of incentives in a prison. Wehaven't taken away his right to spend money at thecanteen, his right to have visitors, his right to earnmoney. We've limited them, but none of that has beentaken away from him completely. That --QUESTION: They're saying with the cohort ofprisoners you'll go along for years, all of themearning points and credits, and then after years,they're all up to level , and then because he won't go inthe program, he alone is pushed back to level , andthat's a big change, and he says that's taking away --MR. McALLISTER: Yes.QUESTION: -- something.MR. McALLISTER: Yes, but I mean, in our viewthere's an important penalogical reason for doing that,and it doesn't rise to the level of compulsion becausewe're in the prison setting. That's why we think Sandinis helpful here.QUESTION: But why wouldn't the same penalogicalreason justify taking away all privileges? In otherwords, why did you make the concession you made at thebeginning of your rebuttal?MR. McALLISTER: Because, all I'm saying is atsome point even Sandin recognizes at some point things are th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC atypical and they exceed the line, so although he could bemoved to disciplinary segregation without a due processhearing, if he was put in solitary confinement, that mighthave been different. There is a line at which it becomestoo much.QUESTION: No, but if he were put in solitaryconfinement it would be justifiable, if at all, because ofa penalogical reason for the way he had behaved in prison,creating dangerous conditions, et cetera. Why isn't therehabilitation of sex offenders who, if unrehabilitatedwill go out in the community and repeat their crimes, justas important a penalogical reason, and why wouldn't itjustify taking away all privileges?MR. McALLISTER: Because the text of the FifthAmendment says no person shall be compelled, and thequestion is compulsion, and at some point, if we took awayeverything, or we make him work hours a day or -- wecould do things to him that I think the Court would haveto say --QUESTION: No, but you're saying -- if Iunderstand your argument, you're saying, one reason whyyou should not characterize this as compulsion is thevalid penalogical reason for doing it.MR. McALLISTER: That's part of it.QUESTION: And my suggestion is, if there -- if th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC the State should say, look, the protection of thesevictims on the outside, who are going to be preyed upon bythis person if not rehabilitated, is just as important aspreventing people from setting fires in their cells, andtherefore, if we take all privileges to the fire-setters,we've got an equally good penalogical reason to take awayall privileges from the person who won't go into theprogram.MR. McALLISTER: And that I agree with. We dohave potentially --QUESTION: Then you could take away all theprivileges.MR. McALLISTER: Not all the privileges, becauseit has to rise to the level of compulsion, and if they areentitled to nothing in prison --QUESTION: That's the question.MR. McALLISTER: That's the question, and --QUESTION: Give him some rebuttal time.QUESTION: Go ahead.MR. McALLISTER: That's all right. I mean, thatis the question, and again, the point that was drawn outhere on the distinction between --QUESTION: -- extended your time for minutes,Mr. McAllister, because you really didn't have a chance tosay much of anything, I'm afraid. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. McALLISTER: All right.(Laughter.)QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice.The distinction here between a loss of privilegeand the granting of a benefit in the State's view issimply a semantic game. There really -- I mean, from theinmate's perspective it just can't be any different, andif the notion is what we should have done is, we shouldall treat them as -- we should treat them all when theycome in as poorly as we can as long as we satisfyconstitutional minimum, treat them as poorly as we can,and then make them earn everything, if that's all ittakes, we can go back and do that, but that certainlydoesn't benefit inmates as a class, and it's certainly not how prisons are run at this time in this country. Itwould be a vast shift in the way prisons are administered.So that's really a semantic game, and the keyinquiry here is, are we compelling them, are we doingsomething sufficiently substantial to these inmates tooverride their will and really force them to make theseadmissions, again which are in a treatment context, not tolaw enforcement officials, confidentiality guidelines,we've never prosecuted someone for anything they've saidin this program --CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: Thank you, Mr. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC McAllister.MR. McALLISTER: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice.CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: The case is submitted.(Whereupon, at : p.m., the case in theabove-entitled matter was submitted.) th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC 