 IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XWISCONSIN DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH :AND HUMAN SERVICES, Petitioner ::v. : No. -IRENE BLUMER :- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XWashington, D.C.Monday December , The above-entitled matter came on for oralargument before the Supreme Court of the United States at: a.m.APPEARANCES:MAUREEN M. FLANAGAN, ESQ., Assistant Attorney General,Madison, Wisconsin; on behalf of the Petitioner.JEFFREY A. LAMKEN, ESQ., Assistant to the SolicitorGeneral, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; onbehalf of the United States, as amicus curiae,supporting the Petitioner.MITCHELL HAGOPIAN, ESQ., Madison, Wisconsin; on behalf ofthe Respondent. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC C O N T E N T SORAL ARGUMENT OF MAUREEN M. FLANAGAN, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioner ORAL ARGUMENT OFJEFFREY A. LAMKEN, ESQ.PAGEOn behalf of the United States, as amicus curiae,supporting the Petitioner ORAL ARGUMENT OFMITCHELL HAGOPIAN, ESQ.On behalf of the Respondent REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OFMAUREEN M. FLANAGAN, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioner th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC P R O C E E D I N G S(: a.m.)CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: We'll hear argumentfirst this morning in Number -, the WisconsinDepartment of Health and Human Services v. Irene Blumer.Ms. Flanagan.ORAL ARGUMENT OF MAUREEN M. FLANAGANON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERMS. FLANAGAN: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court:In , Congress enacted the spousalimpoverishment protections of the Federal Medicaid Act, U.S. Code section r-, to accomplish two competingpurposes. First, Congress sought to protect spousesliving at home from impoverishment when the other spouseis institutionalized and requires long-term nursing homecare. Secondly, Congress sought to ensure that marriedcouples seeking medicaid bear a fair share of the cost ofsuch care.This case concerns whether States have thediscretion to achieve those competing goals by taking intoaccount at the time medicaid eligibility is determinedavailable income which the nursing home spouse ispermitted to use after eligibility to support the at-homespouse. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC When the nursing home spouse applies formedicaid, section r- permits the community spouse toretain certain income and resources to meet his ownmonthly maintenance needs. The statute permits anincrease in the standard resource allowance, however, ifthe at-home spouse can show at a fair hearing that theallowance will be inadequate to provide him with income atthe State-protected level once the nursing home spousequalifies for medicaid.When making this determination, Wisconsin, likemore than other States, first considers whether incomeavailable to the at-home spouse from the nursing homespouse will be sufficient to ensure the protected level ofincome once medicaid eligibility occurs. This method ofdetermining whether to increase or to substitute thestandard resource allowance is called the income-firstrule.QUESTION: And what do the other States do?MS. FLANAGAN: The remaining States use amethodology called resource first, in which they lookfirst to the additional resources above the standardresource allowance. These cases only arise where thecouple has resources above the standard allowance.In this case --QUESTION: It would be very helpful to me if, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC right at this point, you pointed the statutory -- pointedout the statutory provision that authorizes the State totransfer income at this stage.MS. FLANAGAN: The statutory provision, I think,specifically is found in U.S. Code a(a)(), whichdeals with State standards for eligibility and theSecretary's authority to set standards for determiningavailability.QUESTION: Do you have a handy reference in thebrief somewhere to the, where we can see that?MS. FLANAGAN: It's in the Attorney --theSolicitor General's appendix at --the first thing intheir appendix is the codified statute, -- r-, theone we are discussing primarily, and --no, I'm sorry,a is in -- the first thing in the Solicitor General'sappendix.QUESTION: Page a?MS. FLANAGAN: Yes, and (a)() --QUESTION: That's a.QUESTION: a?QUESTION: It looks like --MS. FLANAGAN: Yes, Your Honor, it is. I'msorry. It is correct.QUESTION: Then where in number () is thelanguage that you're answering Justice Stevens with? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MS. FLANAGAN: Okay, a(a)() provides that theSecretary shall include reasonable standards, and then youskip the one parenthetical, for determining eligibilityfor and the extent of medical assistance under the Stateplan, and then under (b), provide for taking into accountonly such income and resources as are -- as determined inaccordance with standards prescribed by the Secretaryavailable to the applicant or recipient, et cetera.QUESTION: Well, and let me ask you a questionon this point, if I may. There is a section, (b)(), r-(b)() of section that says that pre-eligibility,none of the income of the community spouse shall be deemedavailable to the institutionalized spouse, right?MS. FLANAGAN: That's right.QUESTION: And you're talking now about posteligibility?MS. FLANAGAN: We're talking about adetermination made at the point of eligibility, but whichconcerns income available post eligibility.QUESTION: Well, it says pre-eligibility none ofthe income of the community spouse shall be deemedavailable to the institutionalized spouse.MS. FLANAGAN: That's right. That's right.QUESTION: And that provision wouldn't makesense if income of the community spouse itself included th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC income of the institutionalized spouse.MS. FLANAGAN: Well, I think, Your Honor, the --QUESTION: Would it? It wouldn't make anysense?MS. FLANAGAN: I think you have to take intoaccount that you're talking about income being calculatedat different points in the temporal spectrum for differentpurposes.QUESTION: Well, you're --you seem to bearguing that the phrase, community spouse's income in(c) --in (e)()(c) includes income from theinstitutionalized spouse --MS. FLANAGAN: I think --QUESTION: -- and yet it can't under thatsection I read, I think. I don't understand how you getthere.MS. FLANAGAN: No, that particular section(b)() refers only to prohibiting income of the communityspouse from being deemed available to the nursing home --QUESTION: Right, but Justice O'Connor's pointis undoubtedly correct that income of the community spousethere means income of the community spouse alone, not anyattributed income from the institutionalized spouse,right? Isn't that right? It has to mean only the incomeof the community spouse. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MS. FLANAGAN: I think you have to look at --QUESTION: In that sectionMS. FLANAGAN: -- what's available at thatpoint.QUESTION: I understand. Do you have any othersection in the act in which the phrase, income of thecommunity spouse, means not just the income of thecommunity spouse alone, but also income that has beenattributed from the institutionalized spouse?MS. FLANAGAN: Under the definition of communityspouse, income maintenance allowance, I believe -- whichis under subsection (d)(B) --QUESTION: (d) what?MS. FLANAGAN: (d)(B), refers --QUESTION: Can you tell us where in the SG'sappendix that is?QUESTION: It's on a of your cert petition.QUESTION: a?QUESTION: a.MS. FLANAGAN: At any rate, that particularsection refers to monthly income otherwise available tothe community spouse, and the -- our position is that thisevidences a recognition of the fact, as medicaid has longrecognized, that spouses are required to support oneanother, and that this is a background rule. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: Ms. Flanagan, it might help if -- Ithink one of the main features of this legislation wasthat income from the community spouse was never to beattributed to the institutionalized spouse, but viceversa, there is no such prohibition.MS. FLANAGAN: That's right, and that's --QUESTION: None of this makes sense unless youappreciate that that was an absolute prohibition. Now,tell us where that is in this statute, that says, incomefrom the community spouse is not to be attributed to theinstitutionalized spouse.MS. FLANAGAN: It's in subsection (b)(), r-(b)(), and that was referred to --QUESTION: That was the section I read to you --MS. FLANAGAN: Right.QUESTION: -- in my question.MS. FLANAGAN: Yes.QUESTION: Could I have an answer to myquestion? The section you just referred me to is stillnot another section other than the one at issue here inwhich the simple phrase, income of the community spouse,is used in a sense that means the community spouse's ownincome plus any income attributed to the community spousefrom the institutionalized spouse. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC You say that that's the way it's used in theprovision at issue here. My question is, where else inthe entire statute is it used in that fashion?MS. FLANAGAN: I don't believe it's usedanywhere else. That's why the difficulty in this casearose, is to try to figure out what that means.QUESTION: Well, no, I think that rather solvesthe difficulty, frankly.MS. FLANAGAN: I --QUESTION: I would normally think that income ofthe community spouse means income of the community spouse,and you say it means no, the community spouse's incomeplus attributed income. I don't know anywhere else in thestatute that it's used in that fashion, just in this onesection where you say we should interpret it that way.There are other sections where it clearly means only thecommunity spouse's income.MS. FLANAGAN: With respect, Your Honor, themedicaid statute has long considered available income aspart of the income of the person to which it's referring,and we --QUESTION: I mean, where it does that, that'sall I'm asking for. If it's long done that, just give meanother section where income of the community spouse meanswhat you say it means here. The phrase is used a lot, I'm th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC sure.MS. FLANAGAN: That particular phrase is notused frequently in this statute. That's part of theproblem. It's only used --QUESTION: And isn't it true that the situationyou're talking about we're deeming in the other direction,where they deem the community spouse income to beattributable to the institutionalized spouse, not viceversa?MS. FLANAGAN: Well, Your Honor, JusticeStevens, the background rule which I referred to whichthis Court clearly articulated in Gray Panthers case isthat spouses are expected to support one another. That'sa two-way street.QUESTION: That was for purposes of determininghow much of the community spouse's income should be deemedto belong to the institutionalized spouse.MS. FLANAGAN: That's right. I'm just sayingthat spousal support obligations are a two-way street, andthe Court clearly recognized that.QUESTION: In this case, we have the unusualcircumstance where Congress sought to provide additionalprotection to the community spouse to reverse the priordeeming rule which permitted States to take income fromthe community spouse and require it to be used for the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC cost of care.In this case, in the spousal impoverishmentprovisions and this provision specifically, Congress istrying to protect the community spouse by making availableto the at-home spouse income that is specificallycontemplated to be made available as soon as eligibilityoccurs.QUESTION: But it is clear, is it not, that theresource-first rule gives greater protection to thecommunity spouse than the income-first rule?MS. FLANAGAN: The result is that it permitsthe -- in general it frequently permits the at-home spouseto retain a greater share of the couple's joint resourcesthan would be the case under the State-defined standardresource allowance, and in that sense, yes, that'sdefinitely correct.QUESTION: Ms. Flanagan, am I right in thinkingthat the, neither the act we're talking about nor the SSIactually define community spouse's income?MS. FLANAGAN: No, it doesn't. That's the exactproblem in this case. There is no definition, and ourposition is that community spouse's income means incomepossessed by the community spouse, income that the spousehas a right to, and income that is available to the spouseat the particular point when it's being considered. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: Was the income-first rule inWisconsin adopted by the legislature, or by a Stateagency?MS. FLANAGAN: It was initially adopted as amatter of policy by the State agency immediately afterpassage of the statute. Then in the legislatureamended the statute to have an express income-firstrequirement.QUESTION: So then your State court, I take it,under prevailing Wisconsin rules, could not ignore thelegislature's determination unless it found that theFederal statute was unambiguous.MS. FLANAGAN: That -- well, that is what theydid, yes, Your Honor. They interpreted the Federalstatute as being unambiguous. They concluded that theState law conflicted with the plain terms of the Federalstatute and therefore could not be enforced.QUESTION: Ms. Flanagan, as I understand it,there's a provision -- and these have been referred tothis morning, but there's a provision that forbidsattribution from the community spouse to theinstitutionalized spouse, period, no qualifications onthat.MS. FLANAGAN: During institutionalization.QUESTION: That's right, yes. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC There's also a provision which recognizes thepossibility of transferring income from theinstitutionalized spouse to the community spouse aftereligibility has been determined, but does not require anysuch transfer. It simply in effect says how you do it, isthat basically correct?MS. FLANAGAN: It doesn't explicitly require thetransfer. There are, however, powerful incentives in thestatute to basically require them to do it.QUESTION: But it doesn't, that latter provisiondoesn't make any reference to the period beforeeligibility, and I guess my question is, why don't weinfer some kind of a negative inference --when theprovision refers totally to the post eligibility period,why don't we find some negative implication that it wasnot expected in the pre-eligibility period?MS. FLANAGAN: Well, the fact is that thecalculation that the hearing officers ask to be made hereconcerns the post eligibility period. The question is, isthe at-home spouse going to have sufficient income in thepost eligibility period, or does the resource allowanceneed to be jacked up in order to provide that additionalincome, so in that context, the hearing officer is lookingat the same period of time when the standard resourceallowance goes into effect, the same period of time when th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC the transfer provisions go into effect --QUESTION: So basically the answer is, the fairhearing has got to take place before eligibility isdetermined, and that's in effect the answer to myquestion.MS. FLANAGAN: That's right. If the calculationis looking ahead, if there are no --QUESTION: Ms. -- I have one further question.MS. FLANAGAN: Okay.QUESTION: And if you can't give me an answerright away, maybe you can when you come back. It's sortof the flip side of the question I asked earlier. Do --can you give us at least some other portions of thestatute where income of the institutionalized spouse isclearly used to mean the institutionalized spouse's ownincome plus --plus income attributed to theinstitutionalized spouse from the community spouse?MS. FLANAGAN: Well, that really doesn't arisebecause of subsection (b)(), which expressly precludesthat.QUESTION: Okay.QUESTION: Thank you.MS. FLANAGAN: Thank you, Your Honor.QUESTION: Thank you, Ms. Flanagan. We'll hearfrom you, Mr. Lamken. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ORAL ARGUMENT OF JEFFREY A. LAMKENON BEHALF OF THE UNITED STATES, AS AMICUS CURIAE,SUPPORTING THE PETITIONERQUESTION: Mr. Lamken, you've heard thequestions, and it is difficult, looking at the text of thestatute, to figure out what supports the petitioner'sview, although, as I understand it, that is also the viewof the Federal Government here. That income-first rule isokay.MR. LAMKEN: Yes, Your Honor. It's our --QUESTION: Now, are there proposed regulationsof HHS that would allow either resource-first or income-first rules?MR. LAMKEN: Yes, Your Honor. There's currentlya pending rulemaking before HHS, and the Secretary in thenotice of proposed rulemaking has determined that Statesshould be permitted to decide whether to use the income-first methodology or the resource-first --QUESTION: How far along is that process? Whenis that going to be adopted?MR. LAMKEN: The comment period closed onNovember . There's been a little bit of a delay becausethere's concern that many comments might have beenquarantined in the Brentwood facility. However, we arehoping the Secretary can proceed and complete that process th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC with all due speed.QUESTION: Can I ask what authority theSecretary has to say that the statute is ambiguous, so itcan mean either one? We don't even let Federal agenciesdo that under Chevron. I mean, we didn't say in Chevronthat a Federal agency can either say that a bubble meansthis, or say that a bubble means the other, willy nilly.We said, since it can mean one or the other, we'll goalong with whichever one the Federal agency says it means,but here we have a Federal agency that says, we haveambiguous language, so hey, do whatever you like. I mean,it may be ambiguous, but surely it was intended to meanone thing or the other. How can the Secretary come offjust telling the States, it's ambiguous, you know, do iteither way, we don't care?MR. LAMKEN: Justice Scalia, I think the answercomes in two parts. The first is, one doesn't have tothink that the statute means two different things at oncein order to accept the Secretary's view. Communityspouse's income can have a meaning, but there may bedifferent methodologies, all of which are reasonable, fordetermining and calculating what is the community spouse'sincome.In addition, this Court has --and the Stateshave liberties in order to decide to choose among those th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC reasonable methodologies, because under section on pagea of our, of the appendix to our brief they are toestablish reasonable methodologies consistent with theSecretary's regulations.In addition --QUESTION: You could say that about everyambiguity, I mean, that there are two differentmethodologies. You could have said the same thing withChevron. Now, could the Secretary in Chevron have --there are two different methodologies of decidingwhat's --what is it, point of emission, or -- pointsource, yes, point source of emission.MR. LAMKEN: In fact, Justice Scalia, this Courthas upheld precisely that type of regulation issued by theSecretary. In a case called Batterton v. Francis, andagain in a case called Lukar v. Reed, in which you wrotethe opinion for the Court, when the statute did notclearly preclude one methodology or another, theSecretary, because the Secretary has quasi-legislativeauthority to set standards in this area, may adoptstandards that permit variations from State to State.In Batterton v. Francis, it was under AFDC, andthe question is, what was unemployment? Did it includestriking workers, or did it not, and the Secretary said,States, you may determine that based on your own State th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC law. In Lukar v. Reed, the question was whether or not atort judgment would be considered income or resources.The Secretary threw guidance to all the States that theyhad the option of choosing it as income or resourcesbecause both are reasonable.This Court in Lukar v. Reed again held thatdecision, so in this particular area, where States havethe principal responsibility of establishing standards,the Secretary may establish the boundaries, the reasonableboundaries within which those standards may beestablished, but unless the, and so long as the standardsestablished by the State are not contradicted by thestatute, are not contradicted by the Secretary'sregulations, and are reasonable --QUESTION: But Mr. Lamken, isn't this a littledifferent, because in this statute, if I understand itcorrectly, there is express statutory authorization forthe resource-first method, whereas the income-first methodis drawn by inference from what you consider ambiguities?MR. LAMKEN: No, Your Honor. I believe thatneither methodology is particularly compelled or expresslyauthorized by the statute. The statute simply does notspeak to the issue of whether when a spouse, a communityspouse is going to have a shortfall in income you makethat up first by paying additional money to the person in th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC the nursing home so that she may support the spouse athome, which is the income-first methodology, or whetherfirst you raise the resource allowance so that she may --so that the person at home has additional income fromresources.I think I should probably go back and answerJustice O'Connor's and Justice Scalia's question about themeaning of community spouse's income in section (b)(),because there has been a suggestion about necessarilyincludes only the income paid directly to the communityspouse. It is in our view a subtle legal tradition thatthe community spouse's income, or one spouse's income mayinclude income from another spouse that is deemed to beincome of the community spouse in contemplation of law,and so in (b)() community spouse's income could includeincome from the institutionalized spouse that theinstitutionalized spouse can make available. That'sconsistent with the presumption of spousal support, andit's consistent with, for example, existing regulationssuch as those in --QUESTION: Would you go over that a little moreslowly for me?MR. LAMKEN: I'm -- I apologize.QUESTION: How do you read (b)() --MR. LAMKEN: (b)() says -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: -- to cover reverse deeming as wellas deeming?MR. LAMKEN: Right. All it says is that incomeof the community spouse shall be -- shall not be deemedavailable to the institutionalized spouse.QUESTION: Correct.MR. LAMKEN: The inference to be drawn from thatis that there is no prohibition in deeming income of theinstitutionalized spouse --QUESTION: But even if there's no prohibition,where is your authorization for doing this? That's what Idon't find in the statute.MR. LAMKEN: Your Honor, it was -- it's a --QUESTION: If you start from a background rulewith the name on the check as a background rule for thewhole SSI program, how can you change that rule withoutauthorization?MR. LAMKEN: That's the mistake, Justice --QUESTION: Pardon me?MR. LAMKEN: That's the mistake, JusticeStevens. You don't start with the presumption of thename-on-the-check rule. You start from the presumptionthat the income of one spouse may be deemed the income ofanother spouse because the general rule is that spousesmay be expected to support -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: Where in the statute does it saythat?MR. LAMKEN: The statute doesn't but Congresssaid it when it enacted the Medicaid Act in the firstinstance, and that was the established rule under theSecretary's policies at the time that this statute wasenacted. If you look at the Secretary's regulations thatexisted when Congress enacted this, it said the income --QUESTION: That was deeming, not reversedeeming.deeming.MR. LAMKEN: I'm sorry.QUESTION: That was deeming, not reverseMR. LAMKEN: No, Your Honor. In fact, deemingdid occur --reverse deeming did occur, or could occurunder the prior policies, particularly in section (b)States. Now, in most situations --well, first for posteligibility determinations, States did set aside a certainamount of money of the institutionalized spouse's incomefor the support of the community spouse, and they treatedthat money as unavailable to the spouse in the nursinghome so that it could be available to the spouse at home.That is this situation which you have called reversedeeming.Second, even at the eligibility stage, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC particularly in section (b) States, it would bepermissible to deem the income of the institutionalizedspouse to be income of the community spouse.Now, it might not often come up, but it wouldcome up when, for example, both were applicants, in whichcase that would be permissible, so the settled backgroundprinciple that existed at the time Congress acted is thatspouses support each other mutually, and Congresseliminated one of those presumptions on a going forwardbasis in (b)() and said, no, the community spouse'sincome shall not be deemed available to institutionalizedspouses, but left in place the background principle thatan institutionalized spouse, if they have the funds, cansupport the spouse --QUESTION: You can leave that backgroundprinciple in place, and we can all concede that it's inplace, without thereby coming to the belief that when yousay income of the community spouse, you mean, income ofthe community spouse plus whatever is deemed attributableto the community spouse.I mean, I don't contest the principle, but I don't -- that's just not a reasonable way to use language.I agree it can be deemed, but you should say --it wouldhave been very easy to say, income of the community spouseincluding any attributed income. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. LAMKEN: Your Honor, it would be theSecretary's --or the regulations that existed at thistime, when they discussed what we count as your income, asyour applicant for SSI, for example, it said, we count asyour income your income plus income from other people, sothat it treated it as the individual's income, and that isconsistent with the background principle that eachspouse's income is income to the other spouse, and whenStates may establish reasonable standards --QUESTION: I'm sorry, what did it mean, incomefrom other people?MR. LAMKEN: The --QUESTION: Money given you by your children on aregular basis, and things of that sort?MR. LAMKEN: Well, actually attributed income,Justice Scalia, actual income that's passed over you don'tneed a deeming rule, because that's actually --QUESTION: Right. Right. Right, you don't meanthat.MR. LAMKEN: But for responsible individualsthere were categories, such as spouses, such as parents,such as -- there is another category I can't remember thename of, but where somebody had the responsibility forsupporting you, their income was deemed to be your incomefor determining your eligibility. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: But I take it the only thing thatyou've got express in the record anywhere to indicate thatreally is what Congress had in mind is the statement inthe legislative history that is quoted in the briefs thatrefers to other income attributed, is that right? That'sthe only thing in black and white.MR. LAMKEN: That is the only thing in black andwhite, other than the fact that the settled backgroundprinciples the Secretary operated under before theenactment would treat the income of one spouse asavailable to the other. It was not merely deeming fromthe to community spouse to the institutionalized spouse,but deeming in the other direction occurred.QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. Lamken.Mr. Hagopian, we'll hear from you.ORAL ARGUMENT OF MITCHELL HAGOPIANON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTQUESTION: Counsel, would you mind telling uswhy it matters which rule is followed by a State, resourcefirst or income first, not just in an individual case, butoverall? Who saves what in terms of money if you do onething or the other?MR. HAGOPIAN: Yes, Justice O'Connor. Under theresource-first rule the applicant, the community spouse ofthe applicant, of the institutionalized spouse, is the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC person who gets the money, and they get the money in theform of an expanded community spouse resource allowancethat then generates income that brings the monthly -- thecommunity spouse's actual income up to or as close to themonthly need amount that's set by the State.Under income first, the income is fictionallyimputed from the institutionalized spouse to the communityspouse, but it doesn't actually go to the communityspouse. That would not ever happen until aftereligibility had actually been determined.So in the aggregate, the resource-first ruleallows community spouses who would not adequately beprotected by the formula community spouse resourceallowance, because that does not generate income up to themonthly need amount and because they have no other income,or not enough income to bring them up to that level, itallows them to actually have resources that will generatethat income and protect them even after theinstitutionalized spouse passes away.QUESTION: Doesn't it also make possible thepayments, the actual payments start earlier? I mean, thereason this was of such concern is that theinstitutionalized spouse would not be eligible monthly forchecks, so that the immediate effect was she could paydown more rapidly what was her excess resources before she th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC qualified. Isn't that the primary effect? It's that thepayments under medicaid start earlier?MR. HAGOPIAN: Yes. If I understand yourquestion correctly, Justice Ginsburg, the income-firstrule requires that those assets be spent down. Is thatthe answer to your question?QUESTION: Yes, so that --Justice O'Connorasked you what the effect of --MR. HAGOPIAN: Yes.QUESTION: And I think the immediate effect of,she starts to collect medicaid sooner and doesn't use thespousal resources.MR. HAGOPIAN: Oh, now I understand yourquestion. No, that's not true. Under income first, theinstitutionalized spouse does not become eligible. Onlyunder resource first does the institutionalized spousebecome eligible, and then that allows the payments posteligibility to actually occur to the community spouse.QUESTION: Maybe I am not making myself clear.I thought the principle of that is to the couple, of usingyour resource rather than the income first -- resourcefirst, is that the institutionalized spouse, it pays downquicker, and is therefore eligible for medicaid moneysooner. That's what your position achieves, is that notso? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. HAGOPIAN: Yes, that's correct.QUESTION: Yes.QUESTION: But doesn't that assume your case andnot the more typical case, the more typical case, givenstatistical projections, is that the husband will be theinstitutionalized person, and so in the typical case itwill not work to the advantage of the couple?MR. HAGOPIAN: Well, I would agree with you,Justice Kennedy, that the typical case is statisticallythat is the husband that goes into the nursing home first,and we don't have that case here today, but I believe Idisagree with you as to the effect that this has. Firstof all the sex of the spouses doesn't necessarily matter,as is indicated by this case. It's possible for a malespouse to be the community spouse and have exactly whathappened here happen.QUESTION: Mr. --I'm sorry. Are you finishedwith that? I didn't want to cut off your answer.MR. HAGOPIAN: I don't think I answered yourquestion, Justice Kennedy.But the institutionalized spouse, if it isthe -- are you asking me whether, if the institutionalizedspouse has a higher income, that what happened here won'thappen? Is that the question, or --QUESTION: Yes. I assume in many cases the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC husband is the first to be hospitalized, and he is the onewith the greater income.MR. HAGOPIAN: That's correct, so in many casesthe income first rule will have a worse effect when thehusband is the one that goes in first. Because his incomewill be higher, there will be more income that will beattributed to the community spouse in this pre-eligibilitydetermination, and that will prevent her from havingincome of her own that would raise her to the minimummonthly needs allowance. If resource-first was used inthat case, she would be able to retain assets that wouldgenerate actual income to her that would meet the monthlyneed allowance.QUESTION: Mr. Hagopian --QUESTION: Well, if States cannot follow thisincome-first rule, maybe they would just respond byreducing the minimum monthly maintenance needs allowanceand adjust it that way.MR. HAGOPIAN: Yes.QUESTION: Or adjust downward the resourcesprotectable for the community spouse.MR. HAGOPIAN: Yes. Yes, Justice O'Connor, thatcould happen. That is where the flexibility in thespousal impoverishment provisions exists for the States.QUESTION: How many States are using income th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC first?MR. HAGOPIAN: We don't exactly know.According, I believe, to the petition, the State estimatedthat it's in the neighborhood of to States.QUESTION: Of course, I suppose a really hard-nosed State could do both, right, could use the income-first rule plus adjust downward the other --I mean, thetwo don't go with each other.MR. HAGOPIAN: That's correct.QUESTION: You either adjust downward or use theincome first.I have this question. You maintain that thestatute is not ambiguous, if they --MR. HAGOPIAN: That's correct, Your Honor.QUESTION: -- do it this way. What is yourburden if it is ambiguous? If it is ambiguous, do youlose, do you acknowledge that you lose?MR. HAGOPIAN: Oh, absolutely not, JusticeScalia.QUESTION: Do you think the ambiguity has to beresolved, or can the Secretary just leave the ambiguityfloating out there?MR. HAGOPIAN: Well, that's essentially whatthey've decided to do in the proposed rule --QUESTION: Right. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. HAGOPIAN: -- is to leave it floating. Idon't think that's the proper method to do it.QUESTION: By proper, you mean lawful?MR. HAGOPIAN: Lawful, that's correct.QUESTION: They are not permitted to do that?MR. HAGOPIAN: That's right. I agree, actually,with the way you framed it in your questions to thepetitioner, and that is that it just is illogical toassume that Congress, when they enacted this particularprotection, which we believe is a fail-safe protection forthose few couples who would not adequately be protected bythe formula resource allowance, that to have these twowildly divergent interpretations spring from the exactsame language seems totally unreasonable.QUESTION: Well, what did it do with a case likeBatterton v. Francis, then?MR. HAGOPIAN: Well, Your Honor, I believe thatin a case like Batterton v. Francis, we have a differentset of rules here. First of all, I believe that was anAFDC case.QUESTION: Well, but you know, it's still thegeneral same ball park.MR. HAGOPIAN: Well, we believe that theenactment in the Medicare Catastrophic Coverage Act of theno-more-restrictive rule under SSI resolved that whole th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC issue for us, and that is that with a(r), which isfound at the appendix to our brief -- it's the only pagein the appendix -- that the question is actually resolvedby the application of the SSI methodologies.QUESTION: Well, you say the question isresolved. Do you mean by that that the Secretary does nothave any discretion to decide that a State is free tofollow either (a) or (b)?MR. HAGOPIAN: Yes, Your Honor.QUESTION: And how does that follow?MR. HAGOPIAN: Well, there's a couple of --first of all, the authority that the Secretary has reliedon to issue its proposed rule and apparently from whichits authority to develop the rule at all isa(a)()(B).Now, it is our position initially that that --that a(a)() was actually superseded by operation ofr-(a)().QUESTION: This is very difficult to take inaurally.MR. HAGOPIAN: I believe that.(Laughter.)QUESTION: But go ahead anyway.(Laughter.)MR. HAGOPIAN: It's almost as difficult to say th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC it.But the spousal impoverishment provisions, oneof the main things that they did was supersede theauthority that the State and the United States have reliedupon to issue the rule and to engage in this so-calledreverse deeming, so -- and at the same time that theysuperseded that rule, they also enacted a(r).Now, this rule --what this rule did, and thisrule was actually -- I want to back up. Another provisionof the spousal impoverishment enactment was r-()(C),and this provision retained the SSI methodologies, or anyexisting methodologies that were not specificallyoverridden by the spousal impoverishment enactments.Now, the one thing that was left untouched bythese spousal impoverishment provisions was the way thatincome was determined for eligibility purposes. Now, thatbrings us to a(r), and that provision is the provisionof the Medicaid Act mandates that the SSI methodologiesapply to income and resource determinations for all theeligibility groups that were relevant in these cases, andthat statute does allow States and HCFA, or CMS or theSecretary to issue rules that deviate from those SSImethodologies, but those rules, if they're going to do arule that deviates from that methodology, the rule has tohave the effect of making more people eligible for th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC medicaid, not fewer people, and this rule, the income-first rule, fails that test.What it does is --because under the SSIprogram, if the SSI methodologies were strictly applied,the income of the two spouses is separated and is nevercommingled, and so because under SSI this would nothappen, a rule which allows it to happen in medicaid isconsidered to be no more restrictive and not -- I'm sorry,more restrictive than the SSI methodologies, and is notpermitted by that statute.QUESTION: May I ask you a question? I know acase is easier if you don't look at the legislativehistory, and so it's probably easier for my colleague thanfor me.(Laughter.)QUESTION: But would you explain to me how youinterpret the parenthetical phrase that's quoted on page of the Government's brief, and the -- it says takinginto account any other income attributable to thecommunity spouse. I find that kind of a puzzlingparenthetical. How do you read that?MR. HAGOPIAN: Well, I've two responses to that,Justice Stevens. First, within the spousal impoverishmentenactment, the term, attribute, or attributable is used intwo different fashions. When it's used in -- to describe th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC resources, it has the effect of commingling the resourcesand pooling them. When it's used in conjunction with theterm, income, it has the effect of separating the incomebetween the two spouses.So it's my initial position that incomeattributable to the other -- other income attributable tothe community spouse merely confirms the way it was doneSSI statutes, and that is consistent with the way it isdone, where income is talked about at all, in the spousalimpoverishment provisions, and I think there is actually areason for that to be in there, and that is that it wouldbe possible in some cases for a community spouse toattempt to get an expanded resource allowance by cominginto the hearing and saying, I have income, and it's in myname right now.Typical would be, maybe it's from employment,and at this date when I'm trying to establish eligibility,or my institutionalized spouse is trying to establisheligibility, I have that income, but I don't believe youshould count that income to me because it's going to endnext month when my job ends.So I think that is what they were talking about,trying to foreclose that type of argument at a hearing,and so I believe that the real effect of thatparenthetical phrase is to confirm the separate treatment th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC of the income. The reason it isn't in the statute andit's in the legislative history is because the SSI mandateunder (a)(R) accomplished that purpose precisely.Every other part of that legislative history essentiallybecomes r-(e)()(C). That phrase is missing.QUESTION: In that particular provision, toretain an adequate amount of resources, all that any otherincome attributable to the community spouse need mean isincome attributable to him from sources other thaninterest on his resources. I mean, that phrase couldinclude his actual wages, couldn't it?MR. HAGOPIAN: The institutionalized spouse'swages, or the --QUESTION: The community spouse's wages.MR. HAGOPIAN: Oh, yes, absolutely. It would --I think it does.QUESTION: I mean --MR. HAGOPIAN: Yes, I believe that it does --QUESTION: -- resource allowance is theresources that provide income, which means, you know,stocks or whatever, and all that phrase there may mean issomething, any other income attributable to him fromsomething other than his stocks.MR. HAGOPIAN: Right.QUESTION: Such as his wages, right? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. HAGOPIAN: Exactly.QUESTION: You --your argument in the eventthat we find ambiguity I guess boils down simply to thefact that for a variety of reasons it would frustrate thecongressional policy behind the act itself if we heldagainst you, and yet in a way, haven't you provided ananswer to that, a counter to that argument in your answerto the question a few moments ago?You said, and I think have to say, that if theStates lose on the particular issue before us here, theStates as a practical matter can get to the same kind ofrough dollar and sense results simply by adjusting theamount of resources, that is the baseline amount for thecommunity spouse to retain and the amount of income whichis thought to be necessary for the community spouse tolive decently, so it almost seems as though it doesn'tvery much matter, necessarily, to the enactment ofwhatever policy Congress had, whether the flexibilitycomes in income versus resource first, or whether it comesin setting the allowances for income and assets. What'syour answer to that?MR. HAGOPIAN: Well, I think that the answer tothat is that the resource-first allowance, resource-firstrule was placed in a provision that is what we call thefail safe provision. This was a provision that was th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC supposed to be applicable to all the States and allowthose few couples -- and I want to stress that this is notgoing to affect a lot of people.A few couples would not be adequately protectedby those formula allowances, and so -- because the policyof the statute was to defeat spousal impoverishment. Thatwas certainly one of the primary purposes behind it, andthe vast majority of cases the formula resource allowancewas going to adequately serve that interest, but in --QUESTION: So you're saying this is kind of anexceptional case kind of mechanism, regardless of how youset income and resources.MR. HAGOPIAN: Absolutely.QUESTION: And as an exceptional case mechanism,it's only going to work if it works the way you say, on aresource-first basis?MR. HAGOPIAN: That's right, and to stress theexceptional case component of it, you have to remember howyou get one of these hearings. This is not an easymatter. This is not something that s accomplished by thelocal agency for every single applicant who walks throughthe door. You have to have - know that you re in excess -have resources in excess of this formula resourceallowance. You have to go to your local welfare office.You have to apply for benefits knowing that your th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC application is going to be denied. You get denied, andthen you have to request a hearing, go to the hearing,prove up the need with all sorts of mathematicalcalculations for this.This is not something that people -- the faintof heart are going to be doing on purpose, so it is anexceptional procedure.QUESTION: Have you read the notice of theproposed rulemaking?MR. HAGOPIAN: Yes, I have, Justice Ginsburg.QUESTION: And I suppose your argument is to theeffect that that's just not a permissible interpretationof the statute?MR. HAGOPIAN: Yes, that's certainly one of ourarguments against it. We also believe, though, that thestatutory authority that the Secretary is using forpromulgating it, which is a(a)()(B) has beensuperseded in spousal impoverishment, so the rule itselfis probably promulgated pursuant to invalid authority.QUESTION: Do we owe any deference to the agencyhere in its interpretation?MR. HAGOPIAN: Well, because our position isthat the position they are taking is totally unreasonable,no, you don't owe any deference to the agency.QUESTION: Does the income-first rule mean that th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC at the end of the day less Federal money is spent onmedicaid care?MR. HAGOPIAN: Not necessarily. In theimmediate -- the effect of denying an application based onincome first would at that moment prevent someone frombeing eligible for medicaid, but -- and so therefore wouldsave Federal dollars, no question about that, but you haveto remember that the resources that the couple is requiredto spend in order to become eligible, there's norequirement that those resources be spent on the nursinghome, and so it's possible that those resources could bespent for some other purpose, and then the person couldimmediately become eligible for medicaid, you know, withina short time after the initial application was denied.And the important thing about that point isthat, if that happens, if those resources are gone, andthe income that's generated from them is gone, then whenyou get to the post eligibility determination, the less ofthe institutionalized spouse's income is going to be ableto be used to defray the cost to the medicaid program,because more of it is going to have to be used to increasethe allowance to the institu --or, the community spouse,so in the short run it may be --save the FederalGovernment. In the long run, it does not.QUESTION: Would you comment on one of the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC questions I asked Mr. Lamken, whether the background ruleis the name-on-the-check rule, or as he puts it, thebetter view is the background rule is one of deeming, andso that we should start from the premise that it's okay totreat one spouse's income as part of the other spouse.MR. HAGOPIAN: Well, I beg to differ with Mr.Lamken's presentation of the background rule. I don'tbelieve that there is any precedent for the reversedeeming that he's talking about in any of the backgroundrules. The deeming that was permitted was strictly fromthe nonapplicant spouse to the applicant spouse, and itwas for the purpose of denying that person eligibility.The one rule he talked about where there wassome reverse deeming was, was also --was a posteligibility rule. Under the old rules pre-MCCA, thenursing home spouse could allocate a small amount of moneyto the community spouse, usually just enough to bring thatcommunity spouse above the local welfare threshold so thatthey wouldn't have to support that person on welfare, butthat was a post eligibility deeming, it was not aneligibility, and in the SSI program, which is what -- webelieve where the methodologies occur that dictate howincome is to be determined, there is no deeming from theapplicant spouse back to the nonapplicant spouse.QUESTION: Well, even under this program, as I th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC understand it, in the post eligibility determinationincome can be transferred from the institutionalizedspouse to the community spouse.MR. HAGOPIAN: Yes.QUESTION: Yes.QUESTION: I might ask one question. Exampleshelp a lot for me in these cases. I couldn't understandthem without them, and the amicus briefs were filled withthem, which was helpful, but the example I'm carryingaround in my head is that we have, say, a woman in aninstitution who has about $, or $, in assets,and maybe a small pension of $, or $,, and herhusband's at home, and he has a pension coming in, maybeof $, to $,, and so he's lacking about $, or$, or $, or $, or $, to bring himself upto the $, level.Now, if you're right, what we'll do is, we'lltake the $, the wife has, and we give it to thehusband. It generates about, I don't know, $,,$,, and eventually that $, goes to thechildren, and if you're right, she doesn't have to spendit down, and if you're wrong, by the way, if that moneygoes to the husband, later on, when her pension comes in,and there's about or $, coming in, that money goesright to the institution to pay for the health care. She th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC doesn't get to keep it. So that's one way.Now, the other way is that she keeps -- shespends down the $,. She has to spend down the$,, maybe that money goes to the institution, maybeit goes to fix the roof, but then when the income comesin, it goes right to the husband.So I don't know, you know, I mean, it's sort ofwhat -- the Government seems to think that it's better offfinancially by making her spend the money down, but Iguess that depends on whether the alternative is to paythe $, to the doctors or pay it to get the rooffixed, so when I end up thinking that, I haven't a clue.(Laughter.)QUESTION: And so therefore I'd say, well, if Iwere writing this statute, I guess I'd leave it up to theSecretary, and if the Secretary wants to leave it up tothe States, that's his business, so I look at thelanguage, and the language there seems not to solve theproblem, and -- okay, what's the response?(Laughter.)MR. HAGOPIAN: That was a question?QUESTION: I was putting the thing because --MR. HAGOPIAN: Yes, I --QUESTION: -- I want you to see that at themoment I think, well, I can't figure it out, but I'm th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC working with those examples, and since I can't, I say,leave it up to the Secretary, leave it up to a State,leave it up to somebody else, as long as the statuteallows that.I wanted to expose that to you, because I wantyou to have a chance to say no, you're wrong, your exampleis wrong, your reasoning's wrong, everything's wrong, sogo ahead.(Laughter.)MR. HAGOPIAN: I concur with everything you justsaid, Justice Breyer.(Laughter.)MR. HAGOPIAN: I think your first example wasthe wrong one, the one that oddly enough is bad for me,and that's because I think you're assuming that theresources that are going to be protected for the care ofthe spouse will be transferred on death to the children.That's possible, but if the community spouse outlives thenursing home spouse, that resource pool, because forwhatever reason there isn't an independent stream ofincome available to that community spouse, it's going tobe that resource fund that creates the income stream forthat community spouse.If it's protected, and not have to be spent downto medicaid eligibility, that community spouse is much th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC more likely to retain it, not spend it on things that hedoesn't need in order to preserve that income stream sothat he can take care of himself, hopefully, not in anursing home but perhaps in some sort of noninstitutionalsetting that he would prefer over that.So that's my response to your question.QUESTION: You make a big point of that. Whathappens if you lose and the institutionalized spouse dies,and that is a problem. I don't know why the Governmentdoesn't, as a matter of policy, make a pretty strong case,but the -- I guess the response will be, well, you know,everybody knows this.Everybody, no matter how well-educated or badlyeducated, or -- they all know, when they get that pensionchoice, that if you either take it all for yourself, oryou say, when I die I want my spouse to get some, andso -- they've all made that conscious choice, and if theymake it to protect the spouse, that's up to them, and theyprobably will. I mean, that will be the response, I think, to that argument.MR. HAGOPIAN: It would be. The problem, whenyou -- my understanding -- I'm not a pension expert by anymeans, but when you exercise an option that protects thesurviving spouse, you so deflate the value of the pensionthat it's economically a poor decision to make. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: I would have thought that yourresponse would be the statutory language requires theresult you're urging, but you don't make that argument,apparently.MR. HAGOPIAN: No, no, we do make thatargument --QUESTION: Oh, you do --MR. HAGOPIAN: -- Justice O'Connor.QUESTION: Okay.MR. HAGOPIAN: Yes. The statutory languagedefinitely does require --QUESTION: I just didn't hear that in responseto the question. (Laughter.)MR. HAGOPIAN: Well, it was in the opening thatI didn't get a chance to make, so --(Laughter.)QUESTION: In your response to Justice Breyer,isn't it so, or am I -- counsel, am I --MR. HAGOPIAN: Pardon me.QUESTION: -- wrong in thinking that under ERISAthere is a requirement to provide for the survivingspouse, it isn't the option of the insured individual?MR. HAGOPIAN: Well, I'm no expert on ERISA, butI believe that there is a notice requirement and a sign- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC off requirement in ERISA. If the community spouse doessign off for her rights, then it doesn't necessarilyhappen. It's not a mandated --it can't be overcome byactivity by the surviving spouse.QUESTION: But it's not the insured's electionin the first place. Of course, if the surviving -- if thespouse wants to cooperate and says, I don't wantanything --MR. HAGOPIAN: Right.QUESTION: But it isn't the wageearner'schoice --MR. HAGOPIAN: No.QUESTION: -- to say, I don't want, usually her,to be any part of it.MR. HAGOPIAN: That's right, but I think thosedecisions are made at a time when long-term care is notnecessarily in the immediate offing, and maybe -- usuallyat age or thereabouts, long before nursing home staysmay be inevitable, and so the couple is making an informedchoice about how best to maximize their income stream.I mean, nobody is ready for nursing home stays,and to plan for that, you know, based at the time that youmake your pension election would be counter to, I think,human nature.QUESTION: Mr. Hagopian, I want to come back to th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC the snippet from legislative history that is referred toon page of the Government's brief. I guess if youbelieve that legislative history, then it would have to bedone the way the Government says it need only may be done.I mean, if you believe the Government's interpretation ofthat legislative history, it certainly doesn't say theSecretary has the option. It either says what you thinkit means, or it requires the Secretary to use the income-first method, no?MR. HAGOPIAN: I think I frankly agree with you,Justice Scalia.Thank you.QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. Hagopian.Ms. Flanagan, you have minutes left.REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF MAUREEN M. FLANAGANON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERMS. FLANAGAN: Thank you, Your Honor. I wouldlike to talk about the impact of what the resource-firstrule is. I think there have been questions on that.The impact of the resource-first rule is todevote limited medical assistance funds to couples whohave resources substantially above the Federal maximum setlevels and that, in turn, necessarily means, since we havelimited pots of income, that that deprives States of moneyneeded to serve -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: Why is that? I mean, he just said onthat that -- and it certainly was in the briefs, that ifyou say they have to spend down the $,, they're notgoing to give it to the doctors in the institution.They'll fix the roof, they'll pay off the mortgage,they'll figure out one of other things, so the Statewill actually end up with less money, because they won'tget that $, as a set-off and, moreover, they losethe income coming in later as a set-off.MS. FLANAGAN: Well, neither of us have anystatistics on that. I'm sure that people do pay off theirlong-term financial obligations, but they also have topay for the nursing home, and that bill doesn't go awayevery month, so if they're not eligible, they're going tohave to be providing for that in some way, so while thestatute doesn't force them to devote their resources tothat, there are powerful practical reasons why people aregoing to do that.Another part of the impact that I'm concernedabout is touched on by Mr. Hagopian, who says that Statescan just lower their resource standards and lower theirincome maintenance standards. Well, what that says is,States, you should serve fewer people. You should servefewer elderly so that you can have the money to servepeople who happen to have resources in excess, and in many th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC cases substantially in excess of the standard resourcelimits.The Cleary case, which is cited in the briefs,is a good example of that kind of potential situation.That was a situation in which the nursing home spouse hadsomething in the neighborhood of a $/ million of excessresources, but because of the income of the -- set-up ofthe spouses it would have taken that -- those resources tomake up that income, even though that particular spouse,as I recall, also would have had money.CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: Thank you, Ms.Flanagan. The case is submitted.(Whereupon, at : a.m., the case in theabove-entitled matter was submitted.) th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC A able : : about :, : : : : :, :, :, :, :,,, : : : above :, : : above-entitled : : absolute : absolutely : : : accept : accomplish : accomplished : : accordance : According : account : : : : achieve : achieves : acknowledge : act : : : : : : : acted : activity : actual : :, : : actually : :, :,, : : :, : : : addition : : additional : : : : : adequate : adequately : : :, adjust :, :, adjusting : adopt : adopted :, : advantage : AFDC : : affect : after : : : :, : again : : against : : age : agencies : agency :, :,, : : : aggregate : ago : agree : : : : ahead : : : allocate : allow : : : allowance :,,,, : : :, : :, :,, : : : : :, : allowances : : allows :, : : : almost : : alone : : along : : alternative : although : ambiguities : ambiguity : :, : ambiguous :,,, :, : amended : amicus : : : : among : amount : :, : :, : : another : : : : : : : : : : answer : :,, : : : : :,,, answered : answering : anything : anyway : anywhere :, : apologize : apparently : : APPEARANCES : appendix :,, : : :, applicable : applicant : : :, : :, applicants : application : : :, applied : applies : apply : : appreciate : area : : arguing : argument : :,,, :, : : : :, : : : : : arguments : arise : : arose : around : articulated : aside : asked : : : asking : : assets : : : : assistance : : Assistant :, assume :, : assuming : attempt : Attorney : : attributable : : :, : : :,, attribute : attributed : : :,, : : : : : : attribution : at-home : :, :, : aurally : authority : : : :, : :, authorization : :, authorized : authorizes : availability : available : : :,,, : :, : :,, : : : : : : away : : : a(a)() : a.m : : : B b : : : : :,,, : : back : : : : : background : : :, :,, : : :,,, bad : badly : ball : based : : : baseline : basically :, : basis : : : Batterton :, :, bear : become :, :, becomes : before : : : : : : : : beg : behalf :,, :,,, : : : : behind : : being :, : : : belief : believe : : : : : :,,, : :, : : :, : :, belong : benefits : best : better : : between : big : bill : bit : black :, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Blumer : : boils : both : : : boundaries :, Brentwood : Breyer : : brief : : : : : briefs : : : : bring : : : brings : : bubble :, burden : business : C c : : :, calculated : calculating : calculation : : calculations : call : called :, :, : came : care :, : : : : : : : carrying : case : : : :, :, : :, : : :,, :,,, : :,, : :,, : :,, cases : : : : : : : : Catastrophic : categories : category : cert : certain : : certainly : : : : cetera : chance : : change : check : checks : Chevron :, :, Chief :, : children : : : choice :, :, choose : choosing : circumstance : cited : clear : : clearly : :, : : Cleary : close : closed : clue : CMS : Code : : codified : colleague : collect : come : : :, : comes : :, : : coming : : :, : comment : : comments : commingled : commingling : community : :,, :,, :, :,,, :,,,, :,,,, :,,, :,,,, : : : :, : :,,,, : : :,,,,, :, :,,,,, : : :, : :, :, :, : :, : : :,, : compelled : competing :, complete : component : concede : concern : : concerned : concerns : : : concluded : concur : confirm : confirms : conflicted : Congress :,, : : : : :, : : : congressional : conjunction : conscious : consider : considered : : : : considers : consistent : :, : : contemplated : contemplation : contest : context : contradicted :, cooperate : correct : : : : : : : :, : correctly : : cost : : : counsel : : count :, : counter : : couple : : : : : : couples : : :, : couple's : course : : court :, : :, : : :, : cover : Coverage : creates : curiae : : : currently : cut : D D : date : day : deals : death : December : decently : decide : : : decided : deciding : decision : : decisions : deem : : deemed :, : : : :, :,, : deeming :, :,, :,, :,,, : :, : :,,,,, defeat : deference :, define : definitely : : definition : : deflate : defray : delay : denied :, : denying : : Department :, : depends : deprives : describe : determination : : : : : : determinations : : determine : determined : : : : : : : : determining : : : : : : develop : deviate : th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC deviates : devote : : dictate : die : dies : differ : different :, :, :, : : : difficult : :, difficulty :, direction : : directly : disagree : discretion : : discussed : discussing : divergent : doctors : : doing : : dollar : dollars : done : :, :, door : down : :, : : :, : : : downward : :, drawn : : due : During : d) : d)(B) :, D.C :, E e : :, : each : : : earlier : : : easier :, easy : : economically : educated : effect :, :, : :,, : : : :,, : : either : :,, : : : : elderly : election :, eligibility :, : : :,, : : :,,,, : :, : : : : : :, : :,, : : : eligible : :,, : : :, : eliminated : emission :, employment : enacted : :,, : : enactment : : : : : enactments : end : : : : ends : enforced : engage : enough : : : ensure : : entire : ERISA :, : ESQ :,, :,,, essentially : : establish : : : :, established :, : establishing : estimated : et : even : : : : : : event : eventually : ever : every : : : : everybody :, everything : everything's : evidences : exact : : exactly : : : example : : : : :, : examples : : exceptional :,, : excess : :, : :, exercise : existed : : : existing : : exists : expanded : : expected : : : expert : : explain : explicitly : expose : express : : : expressly : : extent : F facility : fact : : : : : : fail : fails : fail-safe : faint : fair : : : far : fashion :, fashions : features : Federal : :,, : :, :, :,, : few : : :, fewer : :, fictionally : figure : : : : filled : financial : financially : find : : : : finished : first :, :,, :, : : : : : :, :, : :,,, : : :,, :,, : : :, : : : : : fix : : fixed : Flanagan : :, :,, : : :,, :,,, :,,, :,,,, :,,,, :, : :,, :,, : :,, :, :,,,, :,, : : flexibility : : flip : floating : : follow : :, followed : forbids : force : foreclose : form : formula : : :,, forward : found : : : framed : Francis :, :, frankly : : free : frequently : : from : : :,, : :, : : : : :, : : :,, :,, :, :, : : : : :, : :, : : :,, : : frustrate : fund : funds : : th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC further : G G : general :, : : : General's :, generate :, : generated : generates : : gets : Ginsburg : : give : :, : : given : : gives : go : : :, : : : : : : : goals : goes : : : :,, :,, going : : : : : : :,, :, :, :, :,, gone :, good : Government : : : : : Government's : :, Gray : greater :, : groups : guess : : :, : : guidance : H Hagopian : : :,, : :, :,, :,,, :,,,, :,,,, : :,, : :,,, :, :, :,, : : : :, :, : :,,,,, :,,, :, : handy : happen : :, : :, : : happened :, happens : : hard : having : HCFA : head : health : : : hear : : : : heard : hearing : :, : :, :, hearings : heart : held : : help : : helpful : : her : :,,, :, : :, hey : HHS :, higher : : him : :, himself : : history : : :, :,, home :,, :,, : :, : :, : : : : : : :, : : Honor : : : : : : :, : : : : : : : : hopefully : hoping : hospitalized : human : : : husband :, :, :, : husband's : I ignore : illogical : immediate : : : : immediately : : impact :, : implication : important : impoverishment :, : : :,,, : : : : imputed : inadequate : incentives : include : : :, : included : includes : : including : income : :,,, : :,, :, :,,,,,,,, :,,,, :,,,, : :,,,,,, :,, :,,,,, :,, :,, :, :, : :, :,,,,,,,, :,,, :, :,,, :,, :,,,,,,,, :,, :,, :,,, :,,, :, : : :,,,,, :, :, :,, :,,,,,,, : :,,, :,, : : :, :, : : :, : : :, :, :, income-first : : :, : : : : : : increase :, : independent : indicate : indicated : individual : : individuals : individual's : inevitable : infer : inference : : : informed : initial : : initially : : instance : institu : institution :, : : institutionalization : institutionalized : :, :, : : :,, :, : : :,, :, :, : :,, :, :, : :,, :,, : : : : : insured : insured's : intended : interest : : interpret : : interpretation :, : interpretations : interpreted : invalid : Irene : : issue : : : :, :, : issued : J jacked : JEFFREY : : : job : joint : judgment : just : : :, : : : : : : : : : : : :, Justice : :, : : : : : :, :, : : :, :, : : : : : :, : : th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC lower :, Lukar : :, M K keep : keeps : Kennedy :, kind : : : :, : know : : : : : : : : : :, : :, : knowing : knows : L lacking : Lamken : : : :,,, : : : :, : : :,,,, :,, :,,, :, : Lamken's : language : : : : :, :, later : : latter : Laughter :, : :, :, :, law : : : lawful :, least : leave : : : :, : :, left : : : legal : legislation : legislative : : :, :,, legislature :, legislature's : less :, : let : : level :, : : levels : liberties : like : : : :, : likely : limited :, limits : little : : : live : living : local :, : long : :, : : : : long-term : : : look : : : : : looking : : : looks : lose :, : : : lot : : : M : :, : : made : : : : : Madison :, main : : maintain : maintenance : : : : majority : make : : : : : : :,,, :,, : : makes : making : : : : : : male : mandate : mandated : mandates : many : : :, : married : mathematical : matter : : : :, : :, : matters : MAUREEN : :, : : maximize : maximum : may : : :, :, : : :,, :, : : : : : : maybe : : : : : : :, : : :, :, : : : : :,,, : : : : : : meaning : : means : : : :,,,, : : :,,, : : :, mechanism :, medicaid :,, :,, : : : :,, : :, :,,, : medical : : Medicare : meet : : merely : : method : :, : : methodologies : :,,, : :,,, :, : methodology : : : : : : might : : : : million : mind :, minimum :, minutes : missing : mistake :, MITCHELL : : : moment : : moments : Monday : money : :, : : :, : : : :, :, : :, : month : : monthly : : :,,, : :, more : : : :, : : :, : : moreover : morning : : mortgage : most : much : : : mutually : myself : N N :, : name : : : name-on-the-check : : nature : necessarily : : : : :, : necessary : need : : :, : : needed : needs : :, negative :, neighborhood : : neither : : : never : : next : nilly : nobody : nonapplicant :, none :, : noninstitutional : normally : nosed : notice : : : November : no-more-restrictive : number : : nursing :, :,, : : : : : : : : :, : : mean : : : :,,,, : : : th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC O O : : obligations : : occur :,, : : occurred : occurs : : oddly : off : : : :, :, office : officer : officers : offing : often : Oh : : : : okay : :, : : : : old : once :, : one : : : :, : : : :,,,, : : : : :, :, :, :, : : :,, : : :, : only : : :, : : : :,, : : : : opening : operated : operation : opinion : option : : : : oral : :,, : : : order : :, : : other : :, : : : : : :,, : :,, :,,,, : :, : :, :,,,, : : : : otherwise : out : : : : : : outlives : over : : : overall : overcome : overridden : owe :, own : : : : : O'Connor : : : : O'Connor's : : P P : page : : : : : : paid : Panthers : Pardon : : parenthetical : :, : parents : park : part : : : : : : particular : : : : : : : : : particularly : : : parts : passage : passed : passes : pay : : :, :,, paying : payments :, :, pays : pending : pension :,, :,, people :, : : : : :,,, perhaps : period : :,,,,,, : : permissible :, : permit : permits :, :, permitted : : : : : : person : : : : : : :, petition : : petitioner :,, :,, : : : : petitioner's : phrase : : : : : : : :,, place : :,, : placed : plain : plan : : please : plus : : :, : : : point : :, : : : : :, : : pointed :, points : policies :, policy : :, : : pool : pooling : poor : portions : position : : : : : :, possessed : possibility : possible : : : : : post :, :,, : : : :, : potential : pots : powerful : : practical : : precedent : precisely : : preclude : precludes : prefer : premise : prescribed : presentation : preserve : presumption : :, presumptions : pretty : prevailing : prevent : : pre-eligibility :, : : pre-MCCA : primarily : primary : : principal : principle :,,, : : principles : prior : : probably : : : : problem : : : :, procedure : proceed : process :, program : : : :, prohibiting : prohibition :, :, projections : promulgated : promulgating : proper :, proposed :, : : : protect : : : : protectable : protected : : : : :, protection : : :, protections : protects : prove : provide : : : : : : provided : provides : providing : provision :, : : : : : :,, :,,, : th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC recognized : : recognizes : record : reducing : Reed : :, reference : : referred :, : : : referring : refers : :, : : regardless : regular : regulation : regulations : : : : : : REHNQUIST : : relevant : relied : : remaining : remember : : : request : require : :,, : required : : requirement : : :, : requires : : : : resolved : : :, resource :,,, : : : : : :, :, : : : : : : :, :, : : resources :,, : : :, : :, : : :, :,, : :, :, :, : : :, : : resource-first : :, : : : : :, : :, respect : respond : Respondent : : : response : :,, :, : responses : responsibility : : responsible : restrictive :, result : : results : retain : : : : : : : :, : :,, : :, rights : roof :, : rough : rule : : :, :, : : :,,,, : : :, : : :, :, : :, :,,,,,, :,, : :, :,,, :, :, rulemaking :, : rules : : : :, :, run :, S s : : : safe : same :, : :, : : save :, saves : saying : : : says :, : : :, : : : : :, :, Scalia : : : : : Scalia's : Second : Secondly : Secretary :, :, :, :,,,, :, : : :, : : :, : :, Secretary's : : : : :, : section : : :, :, :, : :,, :, : : : : sections : see : : seeking : seem : seems : : :, sense : : :, : : separate : separated : separating : serve : : :,, Services : : set : : : : : : provisions : : : :, :,, : purpose : : : : purposes : : : : : pursuant : puts : putting : puzzling : Q qualifications : qualified : qualifies : quarantined : quasi-legislative : question :, :,,,,, :,,,, :,,, :,, :,,, :,,,,,, :,,, :,, :, :,,, :,, :,,, :,,,, :,, : :, :, :,, :, :,, :,, : : :, :,, : :,, :,, :,,,,, :,,, :,,,,, :,,, :,,,,, :,, :,,,, :, :, :,,, :, : :,, :,,, : : :,,,,,, :, :, : : questions : : : : quicker : quoted : : R r : : raise : : rapidly : rate : rather : : re : read : : : : : ready : real : really : : : reason : : : : reasonable : : :, :, : : : reasoning's : reasons : : REBUTTAL : : recall : recipient : recognition : retained : reverse : : :,,, : :, right : :,,, :,, :, : :, : :, : :,, : :, : : setting : : settled : : set-off :, set-up : sex : th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC SG's : share : : short :, shortfall : show : side : sign : : simple : simply : : :, since : : : single : situation : : :, situations : skip : slowly : small : : snippet : Solicitor : :, solve : solves : some :, : : : : :, : somebody : : someone : something :, : : : somewhere : soon : sooner :, sorry :, : : : : sort : : : : sorts : sought :, : source :, sources : so-called : speak : specifically : :, : spectrum : speed : spend : : :, : : spends : spent : :,, : spousal : : : : : : :,,, : : : : spouse :,, :,,,,, :,,,, :,,,,, : :,,,, :,,,,, : :,, :,,,, :,,,,,, :, : :, :,, :, : :,,,, :,,,, :,, :,,,,,, : : :,,,, :, :,,,, :,,, :,,, :, : : :, : :, : : :,,,,,, :, :,,,,, :,,, : :,, :, spouses : : : : : : : : : : : : spouse's : : :, : :, : :, :,, : : : : : : : : : spring : SSI : : : : : :,, :,,, : : : stage : : standard :,,, : : : standards :, :, :, : :, : :, start :,, : : : starts : State :, : :,,, :, : : : : :, : : : : statement : States :,, : : :,, : :, :, : :, :, : : :,, : :, :, : : : :, State-defined : State-protected : statistical : statistically : statistics : statute : : : :,, : :,,,, : : : :, : :,,, : :,, : : : : : : : : : statutes : statutory :,, : : :, stays :, Stevens : : : : still : : stocks :, stream :, : : street :, stress :, strictly : : striking : strong : submitted :, subsection : : : substantially : : substitute : subtle : sufficient : : suggestion : supersede : superseded : : : support : : :, :, : : :, : supporting : : : : supports : suppose : : supposed : Supreme :, sure : : surely : surviving : : :, T T :, take : : : : : : : :, taken : taking : : : : talk : talked : : talking :, : : : : : tell : : telling : : temporal : term : : terms : : test : text : Thank :,, : :,, : their : : : :,,, thereabouts : thing :, : : :,,, : : : things : : : : : think : :,,, : : :, :, : : : : : :, : :, :, :, : :, :,, thinking : : : though : : : thought : : : threshold : threw : through : time : :, : : : : : :, today : tort : totally : : : touched : tradition : transfer : :, : th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC transferred : : transferring : treat : : treated : : treatment : true : : try : trying : :,, turn : two : :, :, : : :,, : two-way :, type : : typical :,,, : U unambiguous :, unavailable : under :, : :, : : : :, :, :, : :,, : :, : : : : understand : : : : : :, :, understanding : undoubtedly : unemployment : United :,, : : : unless : : : unreasonable : : until : untouched : unusual : upheld : urging : use : : : : : : : : used : :,,,, :,, : : :, : :, using : : : usually : :, U.S : : V v : : :,, :, :, value : variations : variety : vast : versa : : versus : very : : : : vice : : view :, : : : W wageearner's : wages :,,, walks : want : : : : : : :,, wanted : wants : : Washington :, way :, : : : : : : :, : : : :, : : welfare : :, well :, :, : : : : : : : : : : : :,,, :, : : : :, :, : :, :, well-educated : were : : :, : : : : we'll : : : : :, we're : : : whichever : while : white :, whole : : wife : wildly : willy : Wisconsin :,, : : : : woman : work : : workers : working : works : worse : wouldn't : : : writing : wrong : :,,,, : wrote : X :, X $ $/ : $, :,,,, $, :, $, : $, : $, :,, :,, : : $, : $, : $, :, $, : - : : : : : :,,, : a : : : : : : : a : a(a)() : : a(a)()(B) : : a(r) : :, r : r- : : : r-(a)() : r-(e)()(C) : r-()(C) : (a)(R) : : :, : : : a : : : : : (b) : : : : : : : : : : : : : (b)() :, : : a :, : : : : a :, : th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC 