 IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XRUSH PRUDENTIAL HMO, INC., Petitioner ::v. : No. -DEBORAH C. MORAN :- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XWashington, D.C.Wednesday, January , The above-entitled matter came on for oralargument before the Supreme Court of the United States at: a.m.APPEARANCES:JOHN G. ROBERTS, JR., ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf ofthe Petitioner.DANIEL P.ALBERS, ESQ., on behalf of the Respondent.EDWIN S. KNEEDLER, ESQ., Deputy Solicitor General,Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on behalf ofthe United States, as amicus curiae. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC C O N T E N T SORAL ARGUMENT OF JOHN G. ROBERTS, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioner ORAL ARGUMENT OFDANIEL P.ALBERS, ESQ.On behalf of the Respondent ORAL ARGUMENT OFEDWIN S. KNEEDLER, ESQ.On behalf of the United States, as amicus curiae. REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OFJOHN G. ROBERTS, JR., ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioner PAGE th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC P R O C E E D I N G S(: a.m.)CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: We'll hear argumentfirst this morning in Number -, Rush Prudential HMO,Inc. v. Deborah C. Moran.Mr. Roberts.ORAL ARGUMENT OF JOHN G. ROBERTS, JR.ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERMR. ROBERTS: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice, andmay it please the Court:ERISA preemption cases can be exceedinglycomplicated, but our submission this morning isstraightforward. This Court held in Pilot Life thatERISA's civil enforcement provisions were the exclusiveremedy for improper processing of a claim for benefitsunder an ERISA-regulated plan. The Illinois independentexternal review law at issue in this case affords adifferent remedy for a beneficiary dissatisfied with anHMO's denial of benefits. The Illinois law is thereforepreempted.Just last week, in Great West Life, this Courtbegan its analysis by noting that it was especiallyreluctant to tamper with ERISA's enforcement scheme, andby quoting prior precedent for the proposition that thatenforcement scheme indicated that Congress did not intend th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC to authorize other remedies that it forgot to incorporateexpressly. That same language, quoted in Great West Life,was quoted years ago in Pilot Life. ERISA's remediesare exclusive, whether we're talking about additionalFederal remedies or additional State remedies.QUESTION: Mr. Roberts, could you help me withone part of the facts I'm a little puzzled about? Youropponents argue there's a difference between the plan andthe HMO, and that he claims that you -- what you say wouldapply to a suit against the plan, but this is a suitagainst the HMO, and I have been unable to find the planin the papers. Is the plan in the record?MR. ROBERTS: The respondent alleged in thecomplaint, joint appendix page and , that thecertificate of coverage was the plan, and that is in therecord. It is Exhibit A to the complaint.QUESTION: The certificate of coverage -- whoare the parties to the certificate of coverage?MR. ROBERTS: The certificate of coverage is anagreement between the HMO and the employer that extends toparticular employees the benefits that are set forththere.QUESTION: And in your view, you say -- are theyjust hooked by their allegation, or do you think it'sclear that that is the correct -- that is the plan? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. ROBERTS: I think they're first bound bytheir allegation, but second of all, even if otherdocuments also contribute terms to the plan, certainly thecertificate of coverage indicates elements of the plan. There may be other documents that set forth other terms ofthe plan.QUESTION: You see, they say that's an insurancepolicy that is purchased by the plan, in effect. That's -- and that therefore there's a distinction betweenthe plan and the insurance policy, and I know youdisagree. You say the HMO is not an insurance policy, butis there -- explain to me why that's totally wrong.MR. ROBERTS: Well, it's totally wrong becausethe question is not how the State law operates to grant anew remedy to a beneficiary. We think it's irrelevantwhether it operates on the insurance policy or whether itoperates on the plan. The point is, however it operates,it provides beneficiaries, under an ERISA-regulated plan,with a new remedy, and that remedy is one that's notgranted by Congress in ERISA, and the Court in Pilot Lifesaid only the remedies that are granted are available.QUESTION: Of course, one could also say it'snot really a new remedy, it's a new protection, sort oflike the -- see, the question is whether Pilot Lifecontrols or the Massachusetts case controls. It's an th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC interesting -- whether it's something like a compelledbenefit or a compelled protection of some kind --MR. ROBERTS: Right.QUESTION: -- that the insurance companyprovides.MR. ROBERTS: Yes, and I think the differenceis, between mandated benefits laws like Massachusetts,those laws provide, as this Court said in UNUM, a rule ofdecision that is to be applied by whoever the decision-maker is in reviewing a denial of benefits.Here, it's not a new rule of decision, it's anew decision-maker, and that decision-maker isn't lookingto State law to say, well, they've given you mental healthcoverage and so that has to be provided, he's decidingwhat -- whether the denial of benefits was proper or not,and that can only be characterized as a remedy, whetherit's --QUESTION: Well -- no, I didn't mean tointerrupt.Isn't the problem that he's doing two things? The decision that he makes is necessarily going to haveits consequence on whether the benefit denial was corrector not, but he's also making a medical kind of decision,is, in fact, this reasonable medical practice, and so he'snot merely in the position which a court is in when a th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC court says, does the evidence show this is reasonablemedical practice. He's in the decision of, in effect,making a kind of practice decision which doctors, asdoctors, make, so it's somewhere in between.MR. ROBERTS: We don't think that's a correctcharacterization. There is no element of a treatmentcomponent in this decision. The only thing that is atissue in this independent external review is coverage, fora number of reasons. First of all, the treatment hadalready taken place. There was no question of treatment. But coverage is all that Rush HMO has undertaken toprovide. It does not provide health care. It doesn'tprovide -- it agrees to pay for health care.QUESTION: Well, this particular -- I'm assumingin answer to your -- from your answer to Justice Stevens,I'm assuming that in this case it is so, but theirargument is, you can have HMO's that have nothing to dowith ERISA plans, and you can have ERISA plans that don'temploy HMO's to provide welfare benefits, and thereforeit's appropriate to think of this as a medical decision oras a regulation of medical practice in a particular form,rather than insurance, so once again there's -- theproblem is that the facts do not place this in a clearcategory.MR. ROBERTS: Well, I -- with respect, I think th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC the facts do place this in a very clear category, becausethere's no question of treatment at issue. Even if theState is purporting to articulate its definition ofmedical necessity, that's not the question. The questionis, is this beneficiary entitled to benefits under thisplan, and the judgment about what is medically necessaryis something that is addressed in the plan. The planprovides the broadest possible discretion to the HMO tointerpret the plan terms, including medical necessity.QUESTION: Well, but what if the State law ineffect tinkered with how you interpret the plan, andspelled out that in determining what's medically necessarythe plan will make use of an independent medicalconsultant.MR. ROBERTS: Well, the State law can definemedical necessity. I think that's just like a mandatedbenefit, saying you have to --QUESTION: And can it not say, and furthermore,if there's any dispute you will use an independent medicalconsultant?MR. ROBERTS: That it cannot do consistent withPilot Life, because that is a remedy for a denial ofbenefits, and Pilot Life indicated --QUESTION: Well, not necessarily. It may bemore a definition in the plan, or a provision of the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC insurance plan itself, and then that in turn isenforceable under section .MR. ROBERTS: Well, that's --QUESTION: I mean, that's the argument, and Ican understand that that, you could view it through thatlens, could you not?MR. ROBERTS: And I think, as Judge Posnerpointed out in his dissent, if you do that, then all betsare off. If you say that this is incorporated by Statelaw into your plan, and so when you enforce that remedy,all you're doing is enforcing a term of the plan --QUESTION: Well, is that so surprising, in lightof the fact that the ERISA law itself excludes regulationsof insurance? The law itself took that out of ERISAcoverage, in effect.MR. ROBERTS: Well, now that was the specificquestion addressed in Pilot Life. That was -- the heavylifting in the Pilot Life opinion was reconciling theexclusivity of the civil remedies and the Saving Clause. You can look at it one of two ways. If you give theSavings Clause full force, then the remedies aren't goingto be exclusive in a case involving an insurer. If yougive the exclusivity of ERISA's remedies full force, thenthe Savings Clause is relegated to a lower status, and --QUESTION: Well, we had a case, U-N-U-M v. Ward, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC and held that any statute that effectively creates amandatory contract term and regulates only insurancecompanies is an insurance law under the Savings Clause.MR. ROBERTS: UNUM did not involve a remedy. Itsaid, the question under Pilot Life and was, quote,not implicated, because it wasn't a State remedy that theywere trying to save under the insurance Savings Clause. It was a rule of decision. This is not a rule ofdecision. It's a different decision-maker, and if thistype of State law remedy is allowed, then there's nothingleft --QUESTION: But UNUM --QUESTION: But Mr. Roberts, can --QUESTION: -- wasn't a procedural ruling. UNUMwas a question of how late could you file, and the Statelaw said you could file late, and --MR. ROBERTS: The law --QUESTION: -- why should that be treateddifferently? The State is making something timely, givingthe beneficiary a chance to collect that the plan itselfwould not have given.MR. ROBERTS: I think that's correct. I -- theline is not -- and this is what UNUM taught. The line isnot between substance and procedure when you're talkingabout mandated coverage. That's not the line we're th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC advocating. The line we're advocating is between mandatedcoverage, what does term, what does the plan have toprovide, and UNUM said, one thing it has to provide,whatever the coverage is, coverage for those claims thatare filed in a timely manner, or, if not, that did notprejudice the insurer.This is different. This is not a new term ofcoverage. It's a remedy. If you don't like what the HMOhas done with your benefits claim, you get to go to aState law, independent external reviewer, and get itoverturned, and --QUESTION: But it's a different kind of remedythan saying, for example, punitive damages. It's --MR. ROBERTS: It --QUESTION: And I thought that's what Pilot Lifewas about.MR. ROBERTS: The argument is made that this isokay because all you get are the benefits that you'reentitled to under the plan. We think that the Taylordecision, decided the same day as Pilot Life, rejects thatargument. It says that one of the claims in that case wasfor the benefits due under the plan, not punitive damages,not emotional distress, the plan benefits, and the Courtsaid, that's not only preemptive, that's completelypreemptive. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ERISA preempts not only different remedies, butalternative, additional remedies.QUESTION: Well, under your theory there couldbe no private arbitration agreement by an HMO plan andpeople covered by the plan?MR. ROBERTS: No. I think that's certainly anopen question. The issue there would be --QUESTION: I don't see how it's open under yourview.MR. ROBERTS: Arbitration -- it's the differencebetween a voluntary agreement between parties, which iswhat ERISA seeks to enforce, and something that'scompelled by State law. The analogy that the SolicitorGeneral draws to the collective bargaining --QUESTION: But under your rationale, controls. It's a remedy. So how could a private agreementto arbitrate survive under your theory?MR. ROBERTS: Well, it would survive because itwould be regarded as an internal plan procedure, not --QUESTION: But wouldn't it also conflict --wouldn't it also conflict with the statutory provision?MR. ROBERTS: No. No. I mean, the -- ERISAallows internal remedies, appeals within the plan, andagain it's an open question, but we don't dispute that thearbitration would be allowed. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC The problem with the analogy to the arbitrationcases is that the Solicitor General stops too early. Yes,you can have voluntary arbitration, even where remediesare preempted, but surely a State law that directed thatparties to a collective bargaining agreement mustarbitrate, and here's how they must arbitrate, would bepreempted by the Labor Management Relations Act.If you pursue the analogy to a situation that'scomparable to this case, the conclusion that there'spreemption seems to follow inexorably, and the idea thateverything is all right because at the end of the day youhave to enforce this in a section action really makesa hollow shell out of Pilot Life. You have to sometimesenforce arbitration in court, but we still think ofarbitration as a different remedy. We don't say, that's ajudicial remedy because it has to be enforced.QUESTION: Yes, but there's another differencewith Pilot Life, and that, the only question is whether itrelated to the insurance. Here, you have -- you admitit's related, but then you get onto the second ball gameof whether it's a change in the insurance coverage, andone can look at this, I think -- I just need -- I want youto comment on this -- as not changing a term of the plan,but, rather, changing a term of the insurance policypurchased by the plan. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. ROBERTS: And we actually go on to the thirdgame which is, if it conflicts with the substantive termof ERISA, and this is what Pilot Life held, it ispreempted, and this conflicts with the exclusivity of theremedies.We don't believe, when you go through the usualinsurance Savings Clause factors, that this is theregulation of insurance, but what Pilot Life held, andthis was the important part of the decision, which wasunanimous, is that when you look at the Savings Clause youhave to be informed by an understanding of what Congresswas trying to do with the exclusive remedies, that themost important -- quote, most important consideration indeciding whether that remedy in that case is covered bythe Savings Clause was that Congress said that all theremedies were exclusive. If you allow them back into thisback door of the Savings Clause, then that exclusivity isgoing to be completely undermined. That's the issuethat's here before the Court.QUESTION: That is -- I'd like to expand just alittle, because I'm actually trying to work out what's theframework within which we think of this, and I had thoughtthat that part of Pilot Life was really part of the reasonfor interpreting the Savings Clause as it was thereinterpreted, that normally what you do is ask the first th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC question, is this preempted in the first place, and it isif there's field preemption, if there's conflictpreemption, and maybe, with ERISA, if there's somethingmore, and ordinarily, if there is such a conflict, theFederal side wins, but the whole point of the SavingsClause is to say, if there's a conflict in respect toinsurance, the State wins. Stop right there.But then maybe Pilot Life adds something else,which says, but it couldn't just say if there's a conflictthat brought you into preemption in the first place, well,the Federal Government wins, because that would be toeviscerate the meaning of the Savings Clause. Now, that'sthe framework in my mind, and I'd appreciate anything youcould help with that.MR. ROBERTS: And again, that poses sort of aconflict between what the Court in Pilot Life said werethe exclusive remedies and the Savings Clause. That iswhat this Court unanimously decided years ago in PilotLife when it said, when we look at the Savings Clause, themost important thing -- most important thing -- is to keepin mind the remedies are supposed to be exclusive, so thatif this is a remedy, it is a regulation of ERISA, it isnot the regulation of insurance, and the Court reaffirmedthat approach in the John Hancock case where it said, andI'll just quote one sentence, no decision of this Court th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC has applied the Savings Clause to supersede the provisionin ERISA itself.If you apply the Savings Clause to allow thisState law remedy to be applied, that would be supersedingwhat this Court said section of ERISA meant in PilotLife, which was that these remedies are exclusive. Thatquestion was addressed. That was -- and I'll say itagain, that was the hard part of the opinion in PilotLife, and that was reaffirmed in John Hancock, and --QUESTION: I see that. Then I'd think whatyou're saying, I take it, is at least where the conflictis particularly severe, it's perhaps not -- the Statedoesn't necessarily win, and you think this is aparticularly bad one.MR. ROBERTS: Well, I do think it's particularlybad, but I don't think it has to be. I think if the Statelaw stands as an obstacle to the accomplishment of theFederal objectives, it is preempted. The Federalobjective requires exclusivity with respect to remedies. This obviously stands as an obstacle to that objective andso is preempted.Now, they say it's saved because the last stopin this State law remedy is a quick dash into Federalcourt to get a stamp that says, enforce. The State lawsays, if the reviewer says you've got to provide this, the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC HMO has to provide it, and they say, well, that's okay,because we run into Federal court, we make this a action.Well, that makes Pilot Life ridiculous, becauseit says every type of remedy is okay so long as the laststop is a quick visit to the Federal courthouse. It alsoraises very serious Article III concerns, because Federalcourts are not supposed to be looking at decisions madeby -- made under State law that they have no authority toreview and simply rubber-stamping them, and it gives riseto the bizarre results that the respondent and theSolicitor General support in this case that an action toenforce section - is completely preempted so thatthere's jurisdiction, but then it turns out section -is not preempted at all. That's a very curious result,but they have to maintain --QUESTION: What is section -, Mr. Roberts?MR. ROBERTS: - is the State law, of theIllinois HMO act. I've been referring to it as theindependent external review law. But they have tomaintain that facade.QUESTION: Would you state the absurd positionsagain?(Laughter.)QUESTION: It didn't strike me as that absurd, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC but --MR. ROBERTS: What is absurd is that they haveto maintain that this can only be enforced under a action, that the State law claim -- keep in mind thisbegan, of course, as a State law claim in State court. wasn't mentioned at all. It was recharacterized as a action, they said because it's completely preempted,but the underlying remedy that's being enforced isn'tpreempted at all.Now, those are two different questions,jurisdiction and substance, but it does seem odd that ifyou're going in and all you're doing is getting a rubberstamp from the Federal courthouse saying, enforced, thatthat's completely preempted, when the law isn't preemptedat all.QUESTION: Well, what they're -- it's notabsurd, in their view, anyway, because they're saying theyhave a human being over here called an arbitrator and thishuman being tells you what the benefit is, and what yourclients are really objecting to, frankly, is not thisremedy. They couldn't care less.What they're worried about is that that humanbeing called the arbitrator is going to say that thiswoman has to have a certain treatment that otherwise intheir view she wouldn't have to have. I mean, just th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC imagine the statute that said, instead of what it says,that you have to provide medical treatment wheneverthere's a -percent chance of improvement. No arbitratorat all in that one, and they'll be even more excited, andindeed, it doesn't take away the Federal remedy in myhypothetical, nor does it in this one. It just turns outthat we know who's going to win.MR. ROBERTS: Well, that's because there's adifferent decision-maker making the decision on your claimfor the denial of benefits, and that's what makes it clearthat what's involved is a different remedy.It's also a remedy that changes dramaticallywhat the plan actually provides, and it does that bytaking away from the plan fiduciary the deference that thefiduciary --QUESTION: Is that fiduciary, a definition ofhis powers of review and so forth, in the record anywhere?MR. ROBERTS: I'm sorry, the --QUESTION: The -- you two or three times referto the fact that the plan gives the fiduciary thisstandard of review. Is that in the record?MR. ROBERTS: No. The only elements of the planthat are in the record is the certificate of coverage,which --QUESTION: So for all we know the plan might th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC actually say, whatever Illinois law requires the decision-maker to do shall be done.MR. ROBERTS: Well, that's what the lawprovides.QUESTION: I mean, maybe the plan says that,too, for all I know.MR. ROBERTS: No, because the elements of theplan that are in the record, the certificate of coverage,notes that the HMO has the broadest possible discretion tointerpret the terms of the plan in deciding coverage and,under this Court's decision in Firestone --QUESTION: It says that in the certificate?MR. ROBERTS: Yes, and -- pages and pages . It's Exhibit A to the complaint -- and under this Court'sdecision in Firestone, that means that that decision issubject to a deferential review.The State law changes that, and the State lawgives the decision to the independent external reviewer,who makes his decision apparently de novo, so that theprecise thing that the plan participants, partiescontracted against, the recognition that this medicalnecessity is a question of judgment, some people are goingto view it differently, we want to make clear that it'sour discretion that controls, and that gives usentitlement to deferential review -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: Mr. Roberts, some close to Stateshave laws like this?MR. ROBERTS: Yes.QUESTION: And there's legislation introduced,at least in Congress, to accomplish what?MR. ROBERTS: My understanding of many of thepending bills is that they have an external reviewprovision but, of course, it's a Federal one, and that isconsistent with ERISA's goal of uniformity in claimsprocessing and administration.QUESTION: Do you know anything about the statusof that pending legislation?MR. ROBERTS: No.QUESTION: No.MR. ROBERTS: Other than at various timespassage is imminent, and then it falls apart, but againit's a very different thing to say, this is the uniformFederal remedy, and to have, as Your Honor points out, different remedies, if you're running a company that has ahealth care plan with operations in different States, thehealth plan can't be uniformly --QUESTION: Are most of the State law provisionssimilar to the one in Illinois?MR. ROBERTS: They all have differences. Forexample, in some States the independent external reviewer th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC is an administrative board. In Michigan, it consists ofseven people in certain places. In some places it's notjust one person, it's more than one person. Some placesit consists of employee representatives as well asphysicians, but it does change what the parties contractedfor, and --QUESTION: Why is that a more disturbing changethan changes in what is the minimum required coverage?MR. ROBERTS: Well, I don't know that it's moredisturbing. It's different, yes. The impact on an HMOcan be greater if the State law says, you must providemental health coverage, this, this, and this, but then atleast the employer looking at it knows what's at stake,and he knows that the remedy is going to be the remedythat is provided under Federal law, which is that they'regoing to enforce what I have agreed to provide under thisplan, even if what I've agreed to provide is compelled byState law.You know that you're not going to face all sortsof different remedies and in particular, here, if youcontract for the broadest possible discretion, you knowthat when the review is undertaken your fiduciary decisionwill be reviewed with appropriate deference. That istaken away here. It's taken away by giving theindependent external reviewer the authority to make a de th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC novo decision, so that what is set up are two verydifferent remediary regimes.The Federal regime, the fiduciary makes adecision with the broadest possible discretion. Hisobligation is to be faithful to the terms of the plan. That is reviewed in Federal court.QUESTION: But it's not the fiduciary'sdecision, as I understand it. It's the insurance policy'sdecision.MR. ROBERTS: Or someone to whom that discretionhas been delegated under ERISA, and there's a provision inERISA that allows them to say, this is the entity that isgoing to make the final decision. Under , that is afiduciary decision, the final denial or grant of benefits. That's the Federal remedy.The State remedy is, the independent externalreviewer makes his or her decision, and that decision isbinding and final. Those are two very different remedies,ERISA's remedies are supposed to be exclusive, and thedecision below undermining that exclusivity should bereversed.QUESTION: Mr. Roberts, before you sit down,would you just give me a moment of your views on whetheror not it's appropriate to regard the HMO as an insurancecompany? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. ROBERTS: The HMO is properly regarded as aninsurance company when it is engaged in the business ofinsurance. Just because it's an insurance company doesn'tmean that all of its activities, including claimsprocessing, for example, are necessarily the business ofinsurance.QUESTION: Very well, Mr. Roberts.Mr. Albers, we'll hear from you.ORAL ARGUMENT OF DANIEL P. ALBERSMR. ALBERS: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court:Illinois section - is an insurance law thatdoes not conflict with ERISA section or this Court'sdecision in Pilot Life, and therefore it is enforceable toprotect the interests of Illinois Insureds like DeborahMoran.QUESTION: Does the Illinois law provide forreview in Illinois State courts?MR. ALBERS: The Illinois law does not provideone way or the other. Section - does not say that. This case was reviewed and was enforced by the SeventhCircuit as a action.QUESTION: But the action was originally broughtin State court, was it not?MR.ALBERS: I originally brought the action in th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC State court to enforce the independent review because theinsurer was refusing to provide any independent review atall, and the two parts of the statute, the requirementthat there be medical necessity, this review and then theactual enforcement of the decision, were parsed at thedistrict court level and in the Seventh Circuit. JudgeConlon initially remanded the case after it was removed,finding that the medical necessity portion of the statutedid not offend Pilot Life or section .Back in State court, Judge Kinnaird in Chanceryfound that medical necessity did not offend andordered a medical necessity review. The medical necessityreview determined that the procedure was medicallynecessary. It was then -- I then sought payment of thebenefit, and that was removed to Federal court and JudgeConlon found that was a action.QUESTION: If the Seventh Circuit view is upheldby this Court, in the future would actions lie in Statecourt to enforce this, or just under ?MR. ALBERS: I think consistent with the Court's ruling in Pilot Life, it would be a action to seekbenefits. I think there's a different question withrespect to whether it was just the enforcement of thestatute which requires medical necessity. I don't thinkthat then you're seeking the benefit, and I submit that it th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC was perfectly appropriate to send this case back to Statecourt for that determination and that ruling, butultimately, to get the benefit, I would suggest that thatwould have to come under , under the Court's reasoningin Pilot Life.This case does not conflict with Pilot Life, aspetitioner suggests. In addressing the conflict issuewhich has been raised, which I think is central to thedecision the Court needs to make, I think the Court shouldconsider the burdens that petitioner must meet to showthat conflict. ERISA preemption is a defense.QUESTION: Could the State provide forliquidated damages, do you think --MR. ALBERS: You mean, damages other than thebenefit itself?QUESTION: -- under the reinsurance regulationexception?MR. ALBERS: You mean, other than the benefititself, Your Honor?QUESTION: Uh-huh.MR. ALBERS: I would submit, under your -- theCourt's ruling which you wrote in Pilot Life, that itwould probably be inappropriate to go beyond the specificdamages that are permitted in ERISA, which is recovery ofthe benefit, and I think then under the statute you're th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC permitted to recover interest and attorneys's fees, andthat is all Deborah Moran has ever sought in this case wasthe benefit that she was entitled to under the Illinoisstatute for what was determined to be a medicallynecessary procedure, which also saved her right arm.QUESTION: How --QUESTION: That's true, but the question is, whois to decide she has gotten what she was supposed to get,and the claim here is that that was supposed to be decidedpursuant to one system of review, and the State hassubstituted a totally different --MR. ALBERS: And under (b), the SavingsClause, the State has the right to do that. That does notoffend ERISA in any way. Section --QUESTION: Isn't that what Pilot Life was allabout?MR. ALBERS: Pilot Life did not talk about whothe decision-maker would be. Pilot Life talked about theenforcement of the benefit had to be in Federal courtunder . Pilot Life was a State common law cause ofaction which was not an insurance law in bad faith and incontract which sought compensatory and punitive damagesbeyond the benefit. The Court said, you can't do that,because that offends and, by the way, all --QUESTION: I see, so you think all it meant was th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC the last shot has to be in Federal court.MR. ALBERS: I think it --QUESTION: I assume the State could provide thatall of these contract claims would be first reviewed inState court so long as it further provides that theultimate judgment of the State court would only beenforceable by suit in Federal court. Would that be okay?MR. ALBERS: I think that's -- if the State lawprovided for a judicial review in State court, I thinkthat would offend . The State law does not provide forthat.QUESTION: Arbitration is not another means ofreview? I mean, I --MR. ALBERS: No, I don't think arbitration is --QUESTION: You don't think you change theremedy --MR. ALBERS: No.QUESTION: -- if you say the remedy is not alawsuit but arbitration? I --MR. ALBERS: The remedy --QUESTION: I find that a startling proposition. Sure, arbitration has to be enforced in court, but I'vealways thought that that's a separate remedy. You ask,what's your remedy, is it a lawsuit or arbitration? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. ALBERS: And this gets down to the issue ofwhat a remedy is, and I looked up remedy in Black's LawDictionary, and it has two elements. It has the process,some courts have found, and it also has the result of theprocess, the enforcement, and I think in Pilot Life theCourt was talking about the enforcement, not the means ofreaching it.QUESTION: Okay, consistent with that, in ashorthand kind of way we refer to this as an arbitration,or as an arbitration decision. Is the independentreviewer acting really as an arbitrator in the classicsense? I'm assuming that an arbitrator in the classicsense listens to evidence in arguments and decides whichof those evidence and arguments is the better according tosome legal standard.I have assumed, contrast, that what theindependent review here is doing is not only listening toother people, but making a medical judgment himself, as aphysician. If the latter is true, then it doesn't seem tome that it is a classic example of arbitration, but I maybe wrong on that, and I don't want to lead you in thedirection of an analysis that ultimately will not pan out. Am I right in distinguishing true arbitration from this,or should we regard this as true arbitration imposed byState law? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. ALBERS: I think this is not -- I thinkyou're right, and I think this is not true arbitration asimposed by State law. I think the Court found in Pegramthat medical necessity decisions contain both elements ofcoverage determination and elements of a medical --QUESTION: What is --QUESTION: May I just ask one -- they did inthat case, but my concern is, is that true here? Inother words, what can you tell me about the terms underwhich the reviewer acts that says this is, and in part atleast, or ultimately, an independent decision by thereviewer about medical necessity as opposed to anadjudication of which side has the better claim, which anarbitrator might make?MR. ALBERS: The statute itself, -, requiresan independent review by a physician in the relevantspecialty. The statute doesn't provide any furtherguidance with respect to how that review is going to bedone. In this case, it was done de novo. It was done bysupplying the relevant definition of medical necessity toa reviewer from the insurance contract certificate, andproviding all the relevant medical records.QUESTION: Does it matter under Illinois, underthe Illinois law, whether there's an adequate treatmentthat's less expensive? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. ALBERS: No. It's de novo review by theindependent reviewer.QUESTION: And there's no element in it ofdetermining whether there's a slightly less effectiveremedy, but with fewer risks and less costly? That'sirrelevant?MR. ALBERS: The statute doesn't address that. I think that if that was a part of the definition ofmedical necessity that was in the insurance contractdocument, that would be relevant to the reviewer'sdecision.QUESTION: It can be in the insurance contract,those provisions? It wouldn't conflict with Illinois law?MR. ALBERS: Illinois law does not definemedical necessity, and so for our analysis we've assumedthe only place that the reviewer could go would be to theplan documents and the plan document here is -- there isno plan document, but the relevant portion of the plandocument is the insurance contract which defined medicalnecessity, and that's what the reviewer used, and that'smy understanding of what they intended.QUESTION: And how did they define it? What wasthe definition?MR. ALBERS: There were a variety of factors toconsider. What are the available treatments? Are they th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC accepted generally in the medical practice?QUESTION: But wouldn't the --MR. ALBERS: What are the risks?QUESTION: I mean, the word necessity soundslike it means you have to have this, and if you hadsomething that would be equally effective and lessexpensive, then it wouldn't be a medical necessity. Isthis the general understanding of what necessity is, or --you seemed to be saying earlier that it was somethingdifferent.MR. ALBERS: I'm not sure I understand.QUESTION: I thought that --MR. ALBERS: I'm sorry, Your Honor. I'm tryingto --QUESTION: You asked whether, suppose -- I thinkJustice O'Connor asked you, suppose there was effectivetreatment that was less expensive, would this particulartreatment still be a medical necessity, and I thought youanswered yes to that question.MR. ALBERS: I think that's up to the judgmentof the independent reviewing physician. He certainly cantake into account whether there's an equally efficacioustreatment available that's less expensive, and then reach his judgment as to which one he or she believes ismedically necessary in that circumstance. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: Could I come back to your colloquywith Justice Souter? The conclusion that you drew is thatthis is not really arbitration because it's a doctor. What would it take to make it a remedy of arbitration? Why isn't it arbitration? Suppose a lawyer -- suppose theIllinois law read just the way it reads now, except itwouldn't be a medical doctor who posses on this but,rather, a lawyer who would hear medical testimony fromboth sides. Would that, putting a lawyer in the shoes,convert it to arbitration?MR. ALBERS: My understanding of what JusticeSouter asked me was that it had the traditional elementsof what we consider an arbitration, which is, you reviewthe evidence from both sides, they have an opportunity toargue, and then you make a decision, and that's what Imeant when I said it's not classic arbitration. It islike arbitration, in that you give it to a neutral thirdparty who then makes their review.QUESTION: There are no submissions to thedoctor in this situation?MR. ALBERS: The Illinois law does notprovide -- and actually what -- for the specifics of that,what it does say is that the HMO must set up theindependent review mechanism, and there is no authority inIllinois on what that must contain or not contain. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: What does it contain? I would findit surprising if both sides didn't press upon the doctorthere their view of the case. You mean, he just sort ofwalks in blind and --MR. ALBERS: All I can tell you is what happenedin this case, Your Honor. In this case, the HMO submitteda series of questions to the doctor, one of which was --and it included a lot of the elements that JusticeGinsburg asked about and Justice Souter asked about withrespect to, what are the available treatments, are theyless expensive treatments, what are the risks, and so on,and then he was given all of the relevant medical recordsand given the definition of medical necessity, and he madea determination that this particular surgery was medicallynecessary.QUESTION: And what about your client? Did youput any questions to the doctor?MR. ALBERS: We did not, because they coveredall the questions we thought were relevant.QUESTION: You mean, you don't actually want toknow how the system works in Illinois? I mean, I'm alsoquite surprised that in the Illinois system, which hasbeen running for sometime, the patient wouldn't have anopportunity to say to the arbitrator, this is my side ofit, and I would be equally surprised if the doctors who th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC think the other way don't have an opportunity to tell thearbitrator what their position is.MR. ALBERS: There's --QUESTION: Maybe I'm always surprised in a lotof things --(Laughter.)QUESTION: So tell me I should be surprised.QUESTION: May I go back to Justice --QUESTION: What is the answer, though? What isthe answer? Do you not -- are you not familiar with thesystem in Illinois?MR. ALBERS: Your Honor, I'm probably asfamiliar as any lawyer in Illinois.QUESTION: Fine, if you're as familiar asanyone, and it's an ongoing system, and I think the --MR. ALBERS: This is the only case.QUESTION: This is the only case Illinois hasever had?MR. ALBERS: This is the only legal case that'sever been brought under the medical necessity statute.QUESTION: No, is this the only case in whichthe arbitration system has ever worked in Illinois?MR. ALBERS: I have no data on that, and theState doesn't keep data on that. I did ask --QUESTION: Do you accept that this is an th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC arbitration system, then? Do I understand that in yourresponse to these questions? You think it is anarbitration system?MR. ALBERS: I think it is an arbitration, andthen it goes to a neutral third party --QUESTION: Well, I would be amazed if people --I mean, am I right to be amazed that you have a systemwhere people can't make arguments --MR. ALBERS: I --QUESTION: -- or can't present their point ofview to the arbitrator? I've never come across such athing, and I take it --MR. ALBERS: There's nothing in the law thatprecludes either one of the parties from --QUESTION: Could I ask you a slightly differentquestion, which is the thing that -- I'd very muchappreciate, before your time expires, if you could justaddress for at least a minute or so what I think is adifficult aspect of the case. Why is this insurance?That is, what I'm thinking is that, after all,every company that sells a product with a warranty is tothat extent an insurer. Every credit card that says youcan return defective merchandise is to that extent aninsurer. Every manufacturer, even without a warranty, whoaccepts a product back because it's defective is an th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC insurer.Yet Congress couldn't have meant in this SavingsClause to allow States to win conflicts that broadly, sowhy does this fall within the kind of insurer that mustfall within this Savings Clause?MR. ALBERS: I think the Court in Pegram -- andit wasn't the issue before the Court in Pegram, but saidthat HMO's act like insurers and transfer risks likeinsurers, and the Illinois statute defines an HMO as anentity that bears risk.QUESTION: That's why I gave my example, becauseI wanted you to see that virtually every manufacturer ofthe United States is a insurer in that sense, and so isthis the kind of thing that Illinois has traditionallyregulated? Is it the kind of thing that other insurancecommissioners have tended to regulate? What makes this aninsurer different from General Motors?MR. ALBERS: Yes to both those questions. TheHMO Insurance Act is part of the Illinois Insurance Code,and I think that insurance law meets all the factors theCourt has set forth in its prior decisions with respect towhat constitutes an insurer.QUESTION: What about a law firm that handlesall of the client's legal business, just as an HMO handlesall of the client's medical business, for a flat fee, and th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC there are firms that do this, especially in the laborfield. Many unions just hire a firm to handle all of theunion members' legal business for the whole year. Is thatlaw firm, like this HMO, an insurer?MR. ALBERS: I don't think so. That's -- it'snot a --QUESTION: What's the difference?MR. ALBERS: They're not a traditional insurer.QUESTION: One is providing legal services, andthey don't know how much it's going to come to for theyear, and the other one is providing medical services andthey don't know how much it's going to come to for theyear.MR. ALBERS: Well, laws regulating them wouldnot be directed to them as acting as insurers. They'renot traditional insurers. They don't meet the commonsense definition of what an insurer --QUESTION: I don't think an HMO does, either. I --MR. ALBERS: This law is limited to theinsurance industry. It's limited to HMO's when they bearrisk. It does transfer risk by the very operation of thestatute. The Seventh Circuit and the Fifth Circuit agree that this is a statute which regulates insurance, andunder this Court's precedents set forth in UNUM, the Court th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC doesn't ordinarily disturb that determination of Statelaw, so I would -- I respectfully submit that it is aninsurance company for purposes of what regulates insuranceunder (b).QUESTION: Well, I think the question of what'sinsurance under ERISA is a Federal question, not a State.MR. ALBERS: Yes, that's -- for purposes of(b), but you look at those factors, and one relevantfactor is whether it -- whether the State considers it tobe an insurer or whether it regulates it as an insurer,and in both situations it does here.In conclusion, I would suggest, in response toJustice Souter's question to petitioner, that this casefalls squarely between the Court's two precedents inMassachusetts, Metropolitan Life in Massachusetts andUNUM. It contains a procedural element of medicalnecessity, which is the relevant rule decision, just asthe UNUM case determined that the notice prejudice rulewas the relevant rule of decision, and it contains asubstantive element, which is a mandated benefit term. Once the medical necessity determination is made, that isa mandated benefit, and I submit to accept petitioner'sargument this Court would have to reverse its decisions inUNUM, in Metropolitan, and in FMC.The effect -- I think Justice O'Connor raises th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC this issue, what would be the effect of such a ruling onvoluntary agreements, and I agree with the propositionthat if there's a conflict between independent review and, then the parties couldn't even agree to provideindependent review, which would change the practice acrossthe country, because it is being provided by self-insuredplans and by HMO's.Under (b), I submit that this is a Stateinsurance law which looked to harmonize the effect of thatlaw and affirmed the States can regulate insurance and canregulate insurers' medical necessity decisions by leavingthose medical decisions to doctors, who should be makingthem.If there's no other questions --QUESTION: May I just ask, on the question ofwhether it's an insurance company, does the Stateinsurance agency regulate the -- you, in fact, would saythe contract between the employer, the sort of unnamedemployer that Ray talks about, and the HMO, is aninsurance policy?MR. ALBERS: Yes.QUESTION: Does the Illinois InsuranceCommission regulate the terms of that policy in anyrespect, other than this -- this -(c) provision?MR. ALBERS: Yes. There's an entire statute th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC which regulates the terms, and there are, for example,minimum benefit requirements for breast cancer treatments,for mental health coverage, there are requirements forminimum funding, for reserves, and so on, so there's allthe traditional --QUESTION: Is the policy that this HMO issued tothis employer the same form policy it issues to many otherpurchasers of HMO services from it?MR. ALBERS: I can only assume it is. I have noevidence on that, Your Honor.QUESTION: Very well, Mr. Albers.Mr. Kneedler, we'll hear from you.ORAL ARGUMENT OF EDWIN S. KNEEDLERON BEHALF OF THE UNITED STATES, AS AMICUS CURIAEMR.KNEEDLER: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it please the Court:The claim is made here that the section - ofthe Illinois HMO act conflicts with section (a). Inconsidering that claim, it's important to focus on thelanguage of exactly what (a) addresses, and it is setout on page of the petition. (a) is empowered --QUESTION: of the petition?MR. KNEEDLER: Of the petition, yes. It'sentitled, "Persons Empowered to Bring a Civil Action," andthen it itemizes -- it then continues, a civil action maybe brought by various persons, and then it goes on to th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC describe the judicial relief that may be granted, awardedin a suit under section (a). In other words, thepreemptive scope of section (a) has to do with causesof action, civil suits in court, and the judicial reliefthat may be awarded in court, and that is precisely theformulation that the Court used in Pilot Life itself.At the conclusion of the Court's opinion inPilot Life, the Court said in distinguishing MetropolitanLife, the Court said the Court in Metropolitan Life had nooccasion to consider the question presented in this case,whether Congress might clearly express through (a) anintention that Federal, the Federal remedy provided bythat provision displaced State causes of action, andthat's what the question was about in UNUM.Here, section -- excuse me, in Pilot Life.Here, section - of the Illinois HMO statutedoes not provide a State cause of action in court, and itdoes not provide any remedy or relief beyond what'savailable under the plan itself.QUESTION: Well, you could look at it that way,or you could look at it that it provides, the State lawprovides a cause of action before this arbitrator.MR. KNEEDLER: I don't think that's the wayit --QUESTION: You have a claim before the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC arbitrator that you haven't gotten what is medicallynecessary, and the arbitrator shall resolve that cause ofaction just as, under ERISA, the court would have resolvedwhat the contract said. MR. KNEEDLER: I don't think that's the ordinaryunderstanding of what a cause of action is. A cause ofaction is ordinarily regarded as something that you wouldenforce directly in court.QUESTION: So the only remedies that you can'tdisplace ERISA with are judicial remedies. You canprovide for any other kind of relief?MR. KNEEDLER: Well, I -- my point is, that'swhat section (a) addresses, and the analysis in PilotLife was, what does (a) displace, and it's -- anotherimportant feature of Pilot Life is, the Court went throughthe various remedies that section (a) provides, andtellingly discussed this Court's decision in Russell inwhich the Court held that punitive damages were notavailable in a suit against a fiduciary based on claimsprocessing, and the Court said it was not going to allow aState cause of action to displace Congress' judgment aboutdamage remedies to allow and not to allow, or have --QUESTION: Well, Mr. Kneedler, supposing theState provided for a very elaborate arbitration procedure,you know, with right to counsel, specified the way the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC hearing should be conducted and so forth, but didn't saywhat would happen. It just said the view of thearbitrator would be final. That would not be preempted,in your view, by because it doesn't contemplatejudicial enforcement?MR. KNEEDLER: Yes, and if it also did notprovide for relief beyond that was available in the planitself.QUESTION: Well, supposing that after that youcould just simply bring an action under ?MR. KNEEDLER: I think that would not bepreempted. In fact, most States -- in this case, Illinoishas not tightly regulated the form in which theindependent review will occur, and that's consistent withthe fact that these are highly judgmental medicaljudgments that medical professionals are looking at.QUESTION: That may be, but I want to go back tothe Chief Justice's question for a minute. Just assumethe absurd example in which the State provided that thereare going to be sort of steps of arbitration and reviewbetween the initial denial by the plan fiduciary and theright to sue, so that someone would be tied up for monthsor years before the person could get into court.In each instance, I'm assuming that it would notbe a provision by the State of a cause of action in the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC sense that you have been using it, and yet wouldn't youconcede in that case that the State scheme was keepingpeople out of Federal court for enforcement so long thatit would, in fact, be in conflict and would be preempted.MR. KNEEDLER: I think the analysis there wouldbe one of exhaustion of remedies under the plan, includingthose required --QUESTION: And if the exhaustion was exhausting,wouldn't you say that the --MR. KNEEDLER: Yes, it could be excused, and theDepartment of Labor's regulations, and they --QUESTION: No, but there would be a preemptionin that case.MR. KNEEDLER: There would be a preemption, butthe Department of Labor has addressed that under itsclaims processing regulations. Section provides for afair administrative processing of claims, and aseparate --QUESTION: Okay, but doesn't that mean, then,that your answers to the several questions on this shouldbe, it ultimately is a question of degree, thisrequirement of one step in a review process doesn't reachthe point, in effect, of excluding the Federal remedy?MR. KNEEDLER: Right. It does not stand as anobstacle. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Another point that the Court stressed in PilotLife was that the Congress struck a balance between theprompt and fair processing of claims and suits in court. Well, but arbitration and independent review, measuresadopted by State insurance laws of this sort, areprecisely designed to facilitate the prompt and fair andexpeditious processing of claims without having to go tocourt, so it --QUESTION: Mr. Kneedler, doesn't it give you avery different remedy -- I mean, to say that it isn't justa matter of delay, that isn't the problem here. Theproblem here is that under the plan, the plan manager'sdetermination was to be given deference by the Federalcourt in deciding whether the plan had been complied with,whereas under the scheme set up by the State, hisdetermination is not to be given deference. It's thisthird party who's been brought in who will have the lastword, and unless that's arbitrary, the court will enforcewhat he says. How can that possibly be regarded as thesame remedy that ERISA provided?MR. KNEEDLER: Nothing in section -- andthis Court made this clear in Firestone -- specifies thestandard of review. The Court therefore looked tobackground principles of law there, in trust law. TheCourt here might look to background principles of th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC arbitration law, and also to the terms of the plan.State law, as Justice O'Connor pointed out,might well be able to say that that sort of provision fordeference to the plan administrator's interpretation ofthe plan should not be given. That would be a classicregulation of State insurance law.I want to mention one other point about thecharacterization of Pilot Life, and that is this Court'sdecision in UNUM. The Court there said, whatever themerits of UNUM's view of section (a)'s preemptiveforce, the issue is not implicated here. The Court thenwent on to say why, because Ward sued under (a)()(B)itself to recover benefits it was not a displacement ofthe Federal remedy, it was an invocation of the Federalremedy to recover benefits, and the Court said in thatcause of action, the notice prejudice rule of Californiainsurance law supplied the rule of decision.So, too, here, in the cause of action undersection (a)()(B) the State Illinois HMO law suppliesthe rule of decision, a procedure for an independentreviewer to give a quick, prompt review of the claim, andthat independent reviewer's decision is -- then suppliesthe rule of decision that the HMO must comply with, andthat is then subject to review in Federal court.The claimant's right to go to court is not th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC frustrated. He can seek review of the arbitrator'sdecision, or, as we point out in our brief, he can bypassthis procedure altogether and can go directly to court,and so (a)()(B) confers rights on claimants, not onplans. Nothing in the HMO act stands as an obstacle tothe claimant's ability to go directly to court.Another important point about UNUM is, the Courtmade clear that the processing of claims under aninsurance policy, it is an integral part of that insurancepolicy, but at the same time States may regulate theprocess by which claims are adjudicated, and that isprecisely what the State has done in this case. It hasprovided a familiar mechanism. States now haveprovided for this external sort of review, and it iscommon in insurance and medical practice to provide bysecond opinions by physicians, so what has been providedhere is a very familiar sort of approach.One other point about section , it'spatterned after section of the LMRA, an arbitrationpreceding judicial review is a very familiar aspect ofjudicial review under section . Section itselfdoes not provide for any particular standard of review. You can have de novo breach of contract suits, as in theBowen v. Postal Service case we mentioned in our brief, orhighly deferential standards of review where the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC particular issue has been committed to an arbitrableprocess. has the same flexibility. It can have adirect de novo cause of action, as the Court contemplatedin Firestone, or, where the parties' underlying agreementor contract provides for a separate resolution process,there is deference to that process under section .QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. Kneedler.Mr. Roberts, you have minutes remaining.REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF JOHN G. ROBERTS, JR.ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERMR. ROBERTS: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice.My friend Mr. Kneedler again drew the analogy tothe Labor Management Relations Act, and we are on commonground. That's a good analogy. He again stopped one stepshort. A State law that compelled the parties to acollective bargaining agreement to resolve their disputesin a particular manner, even arbitration, would surely bepreempted under the Labor Management Relations Act and, tothe extent this remedy is similar to arbitration, thatsame conclusion applies.We heard that there's no interference with because beneficiaries have the option. They can use theFederal remedy, or they can use the State remedy. Theexistence of an alternative remedy is, in fact, an th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC interference with section , and that test is thatoption with the beneficiary is peculiarly inappropriatewhen you're talking about preemption.Preemption often is the result of a quid proquo. We're going to give, say, employees a Federalremedy, but for the employers we're going to make itexclusive. To say that additional remedies are okay solong as the employee can still resort to the Federalremedy seems to ignore the typical dynamic of preemption.And as far as the arbitration analogy goes, thefact that the plans may or may not be able to voluntarilyadopt such a remedy doesn't mean the State can compel it. Nothing prevented the plan in Egelhoff from voluntarilyopting the beneficiary designation rule at issue there. that didn't keep this Court from ruling that it waspreempted. Nothing preempted the plan in GreaterWashington Board of Trade from saying, we're going toprovide the same level of benefit to people on Worker'sComp as to others, and yet a rule mandating that waspreempted.We're dealing here with a compelled alternativeState law remedy that changes completely the standard ofreview available under the Federal remedy. It's notsurprising the results under the two remedies came outdifferently. That additional remedy is preempted. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Thank you, Your Honor.CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: Thank you,Mr. Roberts. The case is submitted.(Whereupon, at : a.m., the case in theabove-entitled matter was submitted.) th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC 