 IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XADARAND CONSTRUCTORS, INC., Petitioner ::v. : No. -NORMAN Y. MINETA, SECRETARY OF :TRANSPORTATION, ET AL. :- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XCourtroom Constitution Avenue, N.W.Washington, D.C.Wednesday, October , The above-entitled matter came on for oralargument before the Supreme Court of the United States at: a.m.APPEARANCES:WILLIAM P. PENDLEY, ESQ., President and Chief LegalAdvisor, Denver, Colorado; on behalf of thePetitioner.THEODORE B. OLSON, ESQ., Solicitor General, Department ofJustice, Washington, D.C.; on behalf of theRespondent. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC C O N T E N T SORAL ARGUMENT OF WILLIAM P. PENDLEY, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioner THEODORE B. OLSON, ESQ.On behalf of the Respondent REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OFWILLIAM P. PENDLEY, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioner PAGE th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC P R O C E E D I N G S(: a.m.)CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: We'll hear argumentnow in No. -, Adarand Constructors, Inc. v. Mineta.Mr. Pendley.ORAL ARGUMENT OF WILLIAM P. PENDLEYON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERMR. PENDLEY: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court:In , the small family business that isAdarand lost a Federal contract because of a racialprogram and the race of its owner, Randy Pesh. In , this Court held that Adarand hadstanding to seek forward-looking relief because thatprogram prevented it from competing on an equal footing.In , Adarand returns to this Court becauseit still can't compete on an equal footing.QUESTION: Mr. Pendley, treat, if you will,fairly shortly coming up in your argument, the Governmentsays that in a direct procurement program, these sort ofpreferences that you're challenging are simply not used inColorado. You say they are. Do we simply have a factualdispute here? MR. PENDLEY: No, Your Honor. The evidence isquite clear that the program still exists in Colorado. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC There are a number of mechanisms -- the Government callsthem means; Adarand calls them tools or mechanisms -- bywhich the Government implements this complex statutoryscheme that it has. It has monetary incentives, whichincluded the subcontracting compensation clause, which theUnited States now asserts is turned off in Colorado as aresult of the benchmark studies. But in addition --QUESTION: You don't challenge those, as Iunderstand it. MR. PENDLEY: Your Honor, Adarand has challengedall manner in which the --QUESTION: But they apply only in the Statesubsidized programs, and you're -- you're claiming thatyour challenge is limited to the Federal programs. MR. PENDLEY: No, Your Honor. The monetaryincentives apply in the direct Federal procurementprogram. In --QUESTION: I thought -- I thought the monetaryincentives have been declared unconstitutional by thedistrict court, affirmed by the Tenth Circuit, and that'sout of the case. MR. PENDLEY: Not at all, Your Honor.QUESTION: -- what they call thesubcontracting -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. PENDLEY: Compensation clause, Your Honor.QUESTION: Compensation clause? Didn't bothcourts hold that that was unconstitutional? MR. PENDLEY: What happened was that the -- thedistrict court held that the entire program, all ofsection (d) of the Small Business Act, wasunconstitutional. The United States, on the th of Juneof ', asked the court to narrow its decision to includeonly the subcontracting compensation clause. On the rdof June, the district court declined. At the Tenth Circuit Court of Appeals, the TenthCircuit held the district court was right as to the subcontracting compensation clause, but there was a newsubcontracting compensation clause now in place, and ithad been changed sufficiently.QUESTION: The one that you were complainingabout last time around, that one has been held invalid. Is that so? MR. PENDLEY: It -- it -- Your Honor, it is thesame.QUESTION: The Government hasn't challengedthat. Is that --MR. PENDLEY: Excuse me. I don't understand. QUESTION: The Tenth Circuit, I thought, saidthat the clause that you were complaining about last time th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC around was invalid. It agreed with the district court tothat extent. The Government hasn't challenged thatdetermination. So, what you were originally complainingabout is now over and gone. Is that correct? MR. PENDLEY: No, Your Honor, it is not correct. The subcontracting compensation clause is still alive andit still applies against Adarand. As this Court held inJacksonville, simply removing that selfsame program doesnot allow the case to be moot. The -- the United Statesis still implementing --QUESTION: You just answered my question. MR. PENDLEY: I'm sorry. QUESTION: You said they -- they removed theprogram. MR. PENDLEY: No, Your Honor. They did notremove the program. QUESTION: I didn't ask you if the case was mootor not because of it, but it's no longer what -- thespecific thing you were complaining about no longerexists. Is that right? MR. PENDLEY: It is not right, Your Honor. Adarand continues to maintain the subcontractingcompensation clause is in place in Colorado. It is inplace in Colorado and it applies against Adarand.QUESTION: If we disagreed with you on that, are th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC there other issues on which -- which are live and whichyou have standing --MR. PENDLEY: Absolutely.QUESTION: And what are those?MR. PENDLEY: Absolutely, Your Honor. Your Honor, on the issue of standing ormootness, this Court held in that Adarand hadstanding, and as the Court said in its Adarand opinion, in the Adarand case and in the Laidlaw case, theissue is now is not an issue of standing but one ofmootness. Has, indeed, the Adarand case been mooted? It has not been mooted because the United Statesin its tool bag of mechanisms by which it applies thisprogram -- it still has others. To answer your question, Justice Kennedy, ithas, for example, the monetary -- the mandatorysubcontracting plans. These are plans that the UnitedStates requires of contractors to adopt, and Adarand putthree of them in the lodging at tabs A, B, and C and onthrough K of our -- Adarand's lodging in its reply briefand which the United States, on three separate instancessince this Court ruled in Adarand -- where the UnitedStates has used the mandatory subcontracting plans againstAdarand. And in fact, all three guardrail portions ofthose three contracts were won by -- I'm sorry. It's in th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC -- it's in that yellow book, the big yellow --QUESTION: Are these in --MR. PENDLEY: -- lodging. QUESTION: Are these provisions you justmentioned in paragraphs through of U.S.C. --MR. PENDLEY: Yes, Your Honor, they are. Theyare --QUESTION: That's -- those are the plans as towhich the court of appeals said in -- in one sentence, arather terse comment, nor are we presented with anyindication that Adarand has standing to challengeparagraphs through . MR. PENDLEY: Well, as this Court said inAdarand , the courts and parties have been confused asto the difference between standing and mootness, and theTenth Circuit was confused as to mootness and standing,resulting in the Court's Adarand decision and itappears to be still confused as to the two. QUESTION: It -- it says that you have nostanding to attack these paragraphs that we've justdiscussed, and -- and you don't challenge that in yourpetition for certiorari or in your -- or in your openingbrief.MR. PENDLEY: Well, Your Honor, we believe theissue of standing is always before the Court. It was not th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC an issue -- it was not an issue in the original petitionin . Yet, standing was addressed, as it properly isalways by the Court.QUESTION: The issue of lack of standing is notalways before the Court. The Court -- the Court certainlycannot render a judgment in a case where there is nostanding but where a party doesn't -- doesn't present any-- any standing material, the Court is not going to golooking to see whether, in fact, there is or not.MR. PENDLEY: Well, Your Honor, the --QUESTION: All the cases you're citing are caseswhere both of the parties assumed standing and the Courtlooked into it on its own. But -- but where -- wherestanding has been denied below and -- and the partydoesn't come forward challenging that denial, I don't knowof any case where we say standing is nonetheless an issue.MR. PENDLEY: Well, Adarand believes thatstanding is under rule (a) is fairly included within thequestions presented because it was plain error for theTenth Circuit below to hold that Adarand did not havestanding because the Tenth Circuit below addressed the SCCand yet declined to address the statutory program thatwe're --QUESTION: Mr. Pendley.MR. PENDLEY: Yes, ma'am. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: Did you challenge below the SmallBusiness Act provision, section (d)() through ()?MR. PENDLEY: Absolutely, Your Honor. InAdarand's amended complaint on the nd of January of, Adarand challenged all the statutes, all theregulations, and all the contract provisions promulgatedas a result thereof. QUESTION: Were -- were -- did Adarand bid oncontracts issued by States with Federal assistance?MR. PENDLEY: Yes. Adarand has bid on State-assisted or Federal-assisted State contracts --QUESTION: Were they at issue in the suit? MR. PENDLEY: It's not at issue in this case,Your Honor.QUESTION: So, the only thing that you now sayyou're challenging are contracts -- direct contracts --MR. PENDLEY: Yes, ma'am. QUESTION: -- with the Federal --MR. PENDLEY: Yes, Your Honor. It's the directFederal procurement program which remains unchanged.QUESTION: And the Tenth Circuit seemed to thinkthat you did not challenge those Small Business Actsections that I referred to. MR. PENDLEY: Well, the Tenth Circuit wasabsolutely incorrect. It's plain error for the Tenth th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Circuit to reach that conclusion. The Tenth Circuitlooked at -- for example, this Court held that Adarandchallenged two things: number one, the financialincentives; and number two, the statutory and regulatoryregimes, the racial presumptions that are theirfoundation.QUESTION: Can you cite us any filing in thedistrict court that specifically referred to section(d)()?MR. PENDLEY: Yes, Your Honor. In -- on --first of all, on the th of June of , the UnitedStates appealed to the district court and said Adarandonly challenged the SCC. It didn't challenge everything. The district court denied that. Then on the -- on the th of -- of August of, the United States, in its appeal to the TenthCircuit, said the district court held that Adarand hadstanding to challenge everything and -- and we don't thinkthat's true. In our --QUESTION: Well, we have a joint appendix. Could you refer us to the pages where you challengedsection (d)() through ()? Can you say on page so andso of the joint appendix, it shows that we did that?MR. PENDLEY: Well, Your Honor, I -- I can citeto the pleadings that Adarand filed in this case where th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Adarand asserted that all parts of the program, all thestatutory provisions that allow this program to exist andthe United States to implement it, have been -- have beenchallenged by Adarand. QUESTION: What it says on --QUESTION: Was there a separate question in yourpetition for certiorari addressed to (d)() through ()?MR. PENDLEY: No, there was not a separatequestion addressed to that, Your Honor.QUESTION: They didn't say you didn't file it. What the -- what the circuit said in footnote on page of your appendix, the parties have not addressedparagraph () of section (d) at all, and because there isno indication from the parties that Adarand has or willbid for contracts governed by that paragraph'srequirement, we do not address it in great detail. Now, I take it that the problem here is thatsince that time, you have tried to get a contract and youhave tried to get a contract from a contractor who has inthe contract the very clause you're trying to attack. If I'm right about that, what are we supposed todo? The lower court didn't address the issue you want toraise. The lower court thought you had no standing atthat time. You probably didn't have standing at thattime. You probably do have standing now. So, what is it th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC you suggest we do? Do we send it back to the lower court? Do we dig the whole thing? Do we do something else?MR. PENDLEY: Your Honor, Adarand had challengedconsistently -- first -- first of all, the subcontractingcompensation clause is one mechanism that the UnitedStates developed to implement the statutory program thatAdarand challenges. Adarand challenges not just that toolor mechanism by which it's implemented, but those statutesthat are used. This Court held in Adarand that thesubcontracting compensation clause came directly out of(d)()(E). That was the holding of this Court in -- inAdarand . And so when the Tenth Circuit holds in thefootnote to which the Justice cited, that -- that theparties have not discussed it, in fact there was no needto discuss it because it was clear that this was themechanism by which -- this was the statutory mandate bywhich the United States used the subcontractingcompensation clause against Adarand.QUESTION: What's the answer to Justice Breyer'squestion? time --MR. PENDLEY: That Adarand had standing at thatQUESTION: No. What are we supposed to do? Hegave you a premise and said, what do we do? Do we send it th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC back? Do we dig? Do we something else? QUESTION: But -- but the premise was that youhad no standing at the time the court of appeals wrotethis decision. Do you agree with that premise? MR. PENDLEY: I do not, Your Honor.The reason Adarand does not agree with thatpremise is because the Laidlaw decision holds that onceAdarand had standing, as a result of this Court's decision, that standing continued until such time as theUnited States somehow made the case moot as the result ofthe revocation of --QUESTION: Well, I thought Laidlaw stood for theprinciple that standing is judged as of the time the suitis filed. MR. PENDLEY: Yes, Your Honor. QUESTION: And subsequent changes affectmootness possibly, but not standing.MR. PENDLEY: Yes, Your Honor. QUESTION: Is that correct? MR. PENDLEY: That's my understanding. But -- so -- the question before the Court --QUESTION: My question was not quite sotechnical. It seemed to me that you're trying to raise aserious issue and the fact is that the Tenth Circuit neveraddressed it. Now, the reason that the Tenth Circuit th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC never addressed it is what they say; it's because youdidn't address section () -- subsection () of section(d). And they didn't address it because there was noindication there would be any practical problem in thefuture because you didn't -- they at time thought youweren't bidding on the contract. Things have changed.That's the premise of my question. It's not atechnical question. It makes that practical assumptionthat's in paragraph -- in footnote . And so my questionwas, what should we do?MR. PENDLEY: Conclude that the Tenth Circuitwas wrong in stating what it stated in that footnotebecause Adarand specifically challenged (d)().QUESTION: Well, you raised it, but you surelydidn't address it. In fact, you didn't even address it inyour principal brief, and the Government has certainly notaddressed it in their -- in their principal brief becauseeverybody thought the fight was about these -- these newregulations that -- that modify the -- the SubcontractorCompensation Clause, rather -- rather than this otherclause. Now, you may well have preserved the objection,but the fact is it hasn't been discussed below and it hasbarely been argued in the briefs here. Your reply briefis devoted to it, but the Government's principal brief th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC certainly isn't. MR. PENDLEY: Well, what -- what Adarandaddressed was the -- at the Tenth Circuit was theconstitutionality of this -- of this racial program, and-- and there are a number of mechanisms by which theracial program is implemented against Adarand. That flowsout of section ()(d) -- section (d)() -- () to ().QUESTION: That's right, but all of those othermechanisms the Government says in their brief have beenwashed away by -- by the -- by the benchmark studyprovision, which eliminates -- which eliminates thedifficulty. And in your reply brief, you do not contestthat. You simply say that despite the benchmark study,there is still one other objection we have, and then --and then you focus on the -- on the subcontractorcommitment requirement in -- in (d)().MR. PENDLEY: It is one of the mechanisms bywhich the United States continues to implement this --this regime, this program. QUESTION: And that wasn't discussed below andhad barely been discussed in the briefs here. MR. PENDLEY: In addition, Adarand -- Adarandnoted that the benchmark study allows it to be turned onand turned off, and it still can be turned -- turned on inthe State of Colorado. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: But what do you mean by that, to beturned on and turned off? MR. PENDLEY: Well, here's what the -- pardonme, Mr. Chief Justice. Mr. Chief Justice, the United States asserts wedo these benchmark studies. We do them about once a yearand we decide where underutilization takes place. Now, these benchmark studies don't comply withCroson because they don't examine qualified, willing, andable. They don't look at subcontracts, and -- and theyassume that racial disparity means racial discrimination. But the United States says, in those States inwhich there is not underutilization, we will not use someof our mechanisms, like price evaluation adjustments andother -- other monetary incentives. However, we retainthe ability to use the monetary -- excuse me -- themandatory subcontracting clause, as -- as Adarand haspointed out in its lodging. In addition, the United States reserves thepower to use these set-asides to achieve the goal.QUESTION: You say they reserve the power. Doesthat mean that in a State where they say -- like Coloradowhere they say we're -- we're not using it, they -- theynonetheless do use it or that they could later use it on adifferent study? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. PENDLEY: That's -- that's what our lodgingdemonstrates, Mr. Chief Justice. It demonstrates theUnited States is today still using in Colorado themandatory subcontracting clauses. In addition, the UnitedStates continues to use, as its March memo points out,the set-asides in Colorado, as well as the mentor protegeprogram. So, these -- these programs by which the UnitedStates uses the racial preference program in Colorado --those mechanisms still exist. But tomorrow the United States, as a result ofan overdue benchmark study, could conclude, well, nowColorado is into the underutilization category. Thesemonetary mechanisms go back on.QUESTION: But to the extent that your -- youranswer, in effect, tells us that the controversy is liveand presented based on what you have in a lodging, you'rereally asking us to make a -- a determination of fact in adisagreement between you and the Government as to whetherthey're being used or whether they're not being used. Anddoesn't it make much more sense for us to send -- ifthat's what the case is going to turn on, doesn't it makemuch more sense for us to send it back to facts -- tocourts that engage in fact-finding and that will make thatdetermination on the basis of evidence as distinguishedfrom our making it on the basis of a lodging? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. PENDLEY: Well, the United States cannotassert that it does not use the mandatory subcontractingincentives because it's required by law. It's required by(d)() to ().QUESTION: It has asserted that. I mean --QUESTION: That's what I thought they said intheir briefs. QUESTION: Maybe -- maybe you say -- I mean, andthey have filed a memorandum from Arthur Hamilton, FederalLands Program Manager. Now, your assertion is that thatis not authorized by law. MR. PENDLEY: I'm asserting that it violates lawand it violates the regulation. It violates C.F.R.. Your Honor, if you could hear me out on this. On the -- on the th of March, the United Stateswas -- on the th of February, the United States wasinvited by the Tenth Circuit to provide us additionalindication as to how this case is moot. On the th ofMarch, Mr. Hamilton wrote a memo, and he said, here's howit's moot. We're not going to use the SCC in Coloradoanymore. Now, of course, as of the th of June of ',apparently under the benchmark studies, they had stoppedusing the SCC, but now all of a sudden on the th of Marchof , they say, well, now we're not going to use it th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC anymore. So, Adarand comes forward to this Court andsays, it doesn't matter if they stopped using the SCC asthat March memo shows, Your Honor, the United Statessays, we'll use the requirements of the bar and we'll usethe set-aside. And then --QUESTION: Mr. Pendley, may I ask you --MR. PENDLEY: Your Honor, may I -- may I finishthis? I apologize. This is important to my case.And so -- so, Adarand files this lodging andsays, wait, look, they're still using these FAR's andthey're hurting us. And so, on the th of August, the United Statescomes forward and says, oh, oh, wait, we've changed ourmind. Not only are we not going to use the SCC's, nowwe're not going to use the FAR's either, even though onthe th of March we said we would use the FAR's.But whether they've abandoned the FAR's andwhether they've abandoned the SCC, they are still usingthe set-asides in Colorado. And, Your Honor, I don'tthink the United States should be permitted to moot thiscase by withdrawing this program on the eve of thisargument and -- and then allowed to reinstitute it as soonas this Court --QUESTION: Mr. Pendley, may I -- may I now ask th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC what is very important, I think, in this -- in this case? And you seem to be walking away from it. MR. PENDLEY: I apologize.QUESTION: This Court is a court of review.MR. PENDLEY: Yes. QUESTION: Not a court of first view. The TenthCircuit isn't even a court of first view. To the extentthat you are arguing things that have occurred since thelast litigation, one would expect you to be in thedistrict court with the current controversy. So, one question is, what do we have? Whatlower court determination are we reviewing? And the second is, what is the concretecontroversy that you have? Last time it was easy to see. You bid on a certain contract. You were the high bidder,and nonetheless you didn't get it. Now, what is the focusof this case? It's no longer that contract because that$, bonus is out of the picture. MR. PENDLEY: Your Honor, the -- the controversyAdarand presents in is that Adarand still is unableto compete on an equal footing because the United Statesstill has in its tool of -- in its tool kit mechanisms bywhich it is applying this racial preference againstAdarand. And it is a matter of mootness indifferencewhether it is the -- the monetary incentives, the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC mandatory subcontracting clause, the set-asides, or thementor protege program. The United States is still -- itstill has mechanisms. It's still using it against Adarandnotwithstanding its attempt to tell this Court --QUESTION: Mr. Pendley.MR. PENDLEY: -- that it's withdrawn those. QUESTION: May I ask you just one question? MR. PENDLEY: Yes. QUESTION: I'd like you to just assume for aminute that you're dead right on everything you've arguedso far. I'd like you to spend a minute or explaining tome why you think the program is unconstitutional. MR. PENDLEY: Absolutely, Your Honor.The first --QUESTION: The specific provisions of thestatute that you challenge are unconstitutional. MR. PENDLEY: Under strict scrutiny, the Courtmust start, as Croson dictates, with the question, isthere a strong basis in evidence of a compellinggovernmental interest? Congress declined this Court'sinvitation, and generous invitation, in to providethat. Instead, the Congress said, we'll leave it up tothe courts. We don't know, and furthermore, let's getsome information on this. Let's ask the GeneralAccounting Office to do a study. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC That report from the General Accounting Officeis in.QUESTION: Your first point is that thecongressional findings are inadequate. MR. PENDLEY: There are no findings, Your Honor. They asked the GAO, find something for us, find the facts. And the GAO came back just like City of Richmond did in --in the Croson case, and said, we don't know how many DBE'sthere are. We don't know what market they're in. Wedon't know if they're qualified, willing, and able, and wedon't know how many subcontracts they win. The GAO saidin its report the lack of information prevents anyone fromknowing the nature of this program. And that's at --that's at page , , and of Adarand's petitionappendix -- or merits appendix.The second reason it's unconstitutional, YourHonor, is simply because it's not narrowly tailored. Itpresumes that all people of certain racial groups aresocially and economically disadvantaged and entitled tothe benefits of the program without any individualizedfindings. There are no time requirements. It's agelessin its ability to reach into a person's past. Timeless inits ability to affect their future. There's no severityrequirements. There's no in-the-USA requirements. Noother construction industry requirements. And nothing th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC removes the taint from an individual, not winning a NobelPeace Prize, not election to the U.S. Senate, and notgraduating magna cum laude from the Wharton School ofBusiness at the University of Pennsylvania. Nothingremoves the taint. And that lack of individualizedfinding requirement demonstrates it's not narrowlytailored. And the regulations can't save it because theagency has admitted on the th of June of ', we can'tseparate the social and economic -- social and economicdeterminations, one from the other, because that violatesthe intent of Congress. Mr. Chief Justice, may I reserve my time? QUESTION: Very well, Mr. Pendley. General Olson, we'll hear from you. ORAL ARGUMENT OF THEODORE B. OLSONON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTQUESTION: General Olson, if -- if counsel forthe petitioner is correct, it would be fair to inferthere's a certain amount of bobbing and weaving going onon the part of the Government in this case. Would youaddress that somewhere in your --MR. OLSON: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice, andmay it please the Court:I certainly will. I believe there has been no th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC showing of any bobbing and weaving of any sort on the partof the Government here. What we have, first of all, the SubcontractorCompensation Clause is no longer a part of this case. Tothe extent that Adarand had standing with respect to it,that provision of the law was declared unconstitutional. The Government has not challenged that provision. That --there is no evidence in this record that that provision isbeing used with respect to Adarand at all. With respect to the --QUESTION: And that was the provision that wasthe focus of the original suit? MR. OLSON: Yes, Justice O'Connor. Now --QUESTION: Well, cannot those under -- under theamended statute, cannot some additional compensation beprovided but subject to the new regulations? MR. OLSON: Well, if we distinguish between thatthe Federal aid program and the direct Federal procurementprogram and the Subcontractor Compensation Clause theUnited States Government has abandoned in all respects,those provisions have not been justified, and the UnitedStates Government is not employing those. With respect to the clauses --QUESTION: You're not employing them on what th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC basis? MR. OLSON: On the basis that -- that they'vebeen determined to be unconstitutional. And the UnitedStates is not pursuing that.Now, what -- where the bobbing and weaving hasoccurred is, as this Court has identified, Adarand haschanged its position. It now has decided to challenge thesubcontractor clause provisions of the direct procurementactions by the Department of Transportation. But as thisCourt noted and -- and the Tenth Circuit specificallyheld, there was no indication that Adarand at the time waschallenging those provisions or that Adarand has or willcontinue to bid for contracts or subcontracts covered bythose paragraphs, the race-conscious provisions of thoseparagraphs. QUESTION: Those provisions were specificallymentioned in Adarand's amended complaint. MR. OLSON: They were mentioned.QUESTION: Specifically mentioned. MR. OLSON: The challenge was to thecompensation clause provisions. All of the litigation, upto the point of the reply brief in this Court, had to dowith the subcontracting compensation provisions which arenot -- no longer in this case. The clause that Adarand now challenges cannot be th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC and is not being applied in the areas in which Adaranddoes business pursuant to --QUESTION: Well, it certainly didn't come aslate as the reply brief, Mr. Olson. The -- the petitionfor certiorari says the following, that the Government is-- is favoring these racial minorities -- this is on page of the petition for certiorari -- through a combinationof compulsion and incentives. As to compulsion, thestatutes require every private prime contractor, onpenalty of being ineligible to win Federal contracts, toestablish and adhere to a plan to try to hire DBE's assubcontractors. MR. OLSON: The --QUESTION: That is precisely the issue that --MR. OLSON: It was -- it was mentioned in -- atthe beginning of the brief and not addressed -- thoseprovisions were not addressed in the arguments of thebrief. But, more importantly, pursuant to theDepartment of Justice guidelines issued in , thoserace -- any race-conscious provisions in the statute maynot be applied in any area of the country unless they'rejustified by the Department of Commerce benchmark studythat shows a disparity in effect in those districts. TheDepartment of Commerce made its study, and in all but th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC eight States, which do not include Colorado, thosemeasures have been ruled out of bounds, and they're notbeing applied. And the Department of Transportation hasconfirmed that. QUESTION: But are the benchmark studiesconducted every year?MR. OLSON: They're to be conducted every year,but they're not actually being conducted that -- thatoften.QUESTION: What does that mean? (Laughter.) MR. OLSON: Well, it's one of those -- one ofthose Government programs that it is hoped will beconducted more often than they actually get conducted,Chief Justice Rehnquist. (Laughter.) QUESTION: But a new benchmark study could findthat Colorado was subject to --MR. OLSON: Well, it's conceivable, yes. That's-- that's entirely possible. But there is no evidencethat that will occur. There is no evidence that that islikely to occur. That is not usual.QUESTION: Well, there -- there is evidence thatAdarand is working in a context where regulations arechanging year to year in order to effect the one -- this th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC one goal, to which it -- it claims there is a substantialdoubt in --MR. OLSON: There is no evidence in this recordthat the subcontract clause provisions, which Adarand isnow discussing, have been applied ever in Colorado or inthose States precluded by the benchmark study.QUESTION: What is the basis for not applyingthem, Mr. Olson? That -- that's what puzzles me. Whatpossible basis is there for the Government not to applythem? They are required by the statute. MR. OLSON: Well, and also they are required bythe holdings of this Court to apply and interpret thatstatute in a constitutional fashion. Precisely what thisCourt discussed in Adarand is to implement whateverprograms it has in a narrowly tailored fashion. What the Department of Justice did, after thisdecision in Adarand, is enter into a lengthy study,determined that race-conscious programs or provisions ofFederal statutes could not be applied in ways that werenot narrowly tailored, responding directly to this Court'sguidance. As a result of that, the Department of Justicestudy indicated that they would only be applied -- only --even at the outset -- in areas where there was evidence ofthe direct effects of discrimination in Federalcontracting. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC The Department of Commerce thereafter conducteda study, did not find these disparate impact in terms ofeffects of discrimination in the areas in which Coloradoexists. In fact, in -- States. And as a result ofthat, the Department of Transportation has not used andhas not employed the -- the race-conscious provisions ofthose clauses in those areas. QUESTION: Well, Mr. Olson, does -- are thoseclauses covered by section (d)() through ()? MR. OLSON: Yes.QUESTION: And I thought that Mr. Pendley arguedthat, in fact, in Colorado some of those provisions havebeen and are, in fact, now in contract forms. MR. OLSON: They are in the contract forms, butthe Department -- that is again another carryover ofinstances where they probably should be removed from thecontract forms, but they're not being implemented orenforced to impose any race-conscious remedy --QUESTION: Well, why wouldn't the -- whywouldn't the --QUESTION: But they're in there. QUESTION: -- contractor have standing to saythat I'm contracting, I'm trying to business in a milieuwhere the Government has, through either prior or existingpolicies, required contractors to put in clauses that th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC injure me, and I want those clauses removed so that I cando business on a fair basis? MR. OLSON: Well --QUESTION: And he has standing to say that now.MR. OLSON: Well, he -- well, in the firstplace, the three contracts that were mentioned in thereply brief -- Adarand was not the high bidder in thosethree contracts. And Adarand has not alleged --QUESTION: High bidder or low bidder? MR. OLSON: I mean the low bidder. Excuse me. In fact, in the submission that it -- that it put beforethe Court --QUESTION: So, despite all these years oflitigation, he still has to litigate bid by bid.MR. OLSON: Well, he has got to demonstrate --as I understand this Court's holdings with respect tostanding, he's got to show some immediate impact or thepotential for actual harm. Now, what is -- the Departmentof Justice has said race-conscious remedies will not beapplied in these areas. The Department of Commerce hasdelineated the areas. The Department of Transportationhas again, on August th as submitted to this Court, madeit absolutely specific that it is the policy of theFederal Highway Administration that separate percentagegoals shall only be required in those areas where the -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: Well, all of this is new since theTenth Circuit looked at it. MR. OLSON: Yes. QUESTION: What are supposed to do now, please?MR. OLSON: This case --QUESTION: I mean, these are new things theGovernment is presenting.MR. OLSON: Well, no, no. What the Governmenthas said in this August memorandum is entirelyconsistent with what the Department of Justice guidelinesrequire and what the Department of Justice and -- and theDepartment of Transportation has been saying all along. To the extent that those provisions appear in thecontract, this -- this document, that was issued on August, says contracting officers shall disregard those goalsin --QUESTION: That's fine, but they're still in thecontracts. I'm a contractor and I have signed a contractthat says I will make these special provisions forminority firms, and I will -- I will try to get thesegoals. And I know that I'm subject to penalties if -- ifI do not make a, quote, good faith effort. Have lettersgone out to those contractors that say, hey, forget aboutit? No. No letters have gone out. You just come up andtell us, oh, the Government won't enforce that. I -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. OLSON: Justice --QUESTION: I don't think that that's adequateassurance to those -- to those companies who are competingfor -- for contracts where -- where the prime contractorhas signed a commitment to get a certain -- a certain goalof -- of minority participation.MR. OLSON: The -- the Department ofTransportation and the Department of Justice haveconsistently adhered to the provision that those race-conscious provisions will not be enforced in the directprocurement program in these areas. And there's noevidence that they ever have been.QUESTION: Have they told -- have they told thecontractors and subcontractors? MR. OLSON: Yes, they have, and theyreaffirmed --QUESTION: Where was that? MR. OLSON: Well, this -- this memorandum --QUESTION: This went out to Federal LandsHighway Division engineers. We have no indication thatthe people who signed these commitments have been put onnotice that these commitments do not -- do not bindanymore.MR. OLSON: Well, Justice Scalia, it strikes me-- and I -- I respectfully submit that -- that you're th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC switching it around. It seems to me that Adarand has theresponsibility to suggest or demonstrate to this Courtthat it's actually being hurt or that there is someevidence that -- that race-conscious decisions are beingmade in the contracting process. And Adarand has notdemonstrated, with respect to even the three contracts itmentioned, that it was the low bidder. QUESTION: Do you think that for a single minuteif these clauses required racial discrimination, anabsolute clear, patent violation of the FourteenthAmendment, that we would say there's no standing for aminority who wanted these removed? Not for a singleminute. MR. OLSON: Well, I -- I wouldn't contradictthat, but I would say when the Government has made itabsolutely clear that it is not enforcing race-consciousremedies, as instructed by this Court in the first Adaranddecision, except in a narrowly tailored fashion, andthere's been subsequent legislation of a compelling need,but that that response to that compelling need has beennarrowed down to the areas where it is necessary and --QUESTION: But the provision hasn't been removedfrom the contract.MR. OLSON: The provision was not removed insome of those contracts, and I -- I can't tell this Court th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC how many. But it is -- it is explicitly clear and thereis no evidence to contradict that they're not being --those race-conscious provisions are not being enforcedwith respect --QUESTION: If they were being enforced, do youagree that Adarand has standing to -- to challenge it?MR. OLSON: If they were being enforced andAdarand could suggest that it was somehow affected bythat. And it has not been able to do that either becausewith respect to the three contracts, its own lodging --and I would refer the Court in part to C of tab M in theyellow -- the first volume of the yellow submission, whichis a sheet in which -- this is the Adarand submission. And tab M refers to one of those contracts, just as anexample. And it says in that document -- this is anAdarand document -- who was awarded the work we bid? Andthen it circles the company who was awarded the bid. Ifnot us, why not? And it's scribbled in here from Adarand,we were not high -- we were high. Excuse me. QUESTION: They were the high bidder. MR. OLSON: They were the high bidder andtherefore they didn't get the contract because they were-- were not the low bidder. And that's true if -- ittakes a little bit of combing through the record, but it'sdemonstrably true with respect to those other two th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC contracts as well. QUESTION: And -- and you think they're --they're not at risk of that happening in -- in othercontracts when these provisions still exist in thecontract clauses and all we have is -- is your assurance?If I were the prime contractor, I'd say, Ibetter not take a chance. I understand that there issomewhere floating around the Government a memorandum thatsays that they won't enforce this, but I've never beentold about it.MR. OLSON: It's -- it's -- well, JusticeScalia, it has been the documented, articulated policy ofthe -- since the Department of Justice study. Theguidelines went out to all Federal agencies not to employthese programs, except under certain conditions. TheCommerce Department implemented that decision, and there'sno evidence to the contrary.QUESTION: What programs? Let's -- let's beclear about what programs we're talking about. Iunderstand that at an early date we said until thesestudies are done and -- and the studies show nounderutilization, the compensation and the other twoprograms would -- would not be used. But as far as Iknow, the first indication that the contracting commitmentwould not be used is this memorandum of August , . th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Is -- is there any earlier memorandum? MR. OLSON: Well, if you look at theGovernment's --QUESTION: Dealing with the contracting clauses.MR. OLSON: No. But the -- what there is is aDepartment of Justice requirement imposed upon all Federalagencies not to employ race-conscious remedies in thoseareas --QUESTION: When -- when was that memorandum?MR. OLSON: That was in .QUESTION: Well, but why, if that went out in, was it necessary to have this memorandum in thesummer of , if that had -- if the earlier one had anyeffect? MR. OLSON: Well, it -- well, the memorandum inAugust of -- of reiterates the policy that theDepartment of Transportation had been operating under.QUESTION: Would you read me the ' one? Ithink it's -- it's pretty clear to me that the ' one didnot cover the contracting requirement. It just coveredthe other three programs. MR. OLSON: I don't agree with you. I -- I --QUESTION: Where is it? Where is it? MR. OLSON: I can't -- I can't give you cite tothe record, but the -- the Department of Justice memoranda th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC is in the Government's appendix. It's a -- it's a lengthydocument, and it makes it clear that race-consciousremedies cannot be used except in those areas subject tothe Department of Commerce benchmark study.QUESTION: Is there another reason here why itdoesn't apply and that is -- and I read this somewhere --that Mountain Gravel is itself a small business and forthat reason the clause wouldn't apply in any event? MR. OLSON: It would not have applied in when this case first arose. The -- that's -- that's avery good point, Justice Souter. When this case firstarose, Mountain Gravel was not -- was a small businessenterprise itself. At the appendix to the Government'sbrief at pages to to , the actual contract islisted. The box is checked, are you a small businessenterprise. That's checked. And then on the page whichcontains the subcontractor -- subcontracting clauseitself, the language in there specifically says, thisshall not apply to small business concerns. Now --QUESTION: Why is it -- why is it then that --that what they say in the first three pages of their replybrief, for example, is that they have to -- they want toget a sub under a prime, that the Weenomunch ConstructionAuthority got the prime. And they got the prime contracton August , . And when they got the contract, they th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC looked up the requests for bid, and in the request forbid, there was an appendix. And in that appendix, it gavean example of just what the prime had to have. And one ofthe things the prime had to have was a promise that itwould use its best efforts to try to get subs awarded tosmall business -- disadvantaged small businesses. So,they're saying at least on that one, we saw right in thecontract -- that we saw right -- right there the kind ofthing that you say doesn't exist. MR. OLSON: Well, as I say, they were not thelow bidder on that contract. They weren'tdisadvantaged --QUESTION: All right, but they're saying --MR. OLSON: -- by that contracting situation.QUESTION: -- give you three examples, you know. We're a guardrail company and we're going to go and we'regoing to bid again and again and again. And the lastthree all have these examples in it, which you say Iwouldn't have gotten anyway, but maybe in the future we'llget it anyway.MR. OLSON: Well, all I can say is that theGovernment has announced its policy, and there's noevidence in the record that it's acted inconsistently withany application of race-conscious remedies in the area inwhich Adarand -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: So, we have just a mistake possibly,the appendix C. But if that's -- if that's so, do youthink we should just send this back to the Tenth Circuitand say, okay, you sort it out?MR. OLSON: This --QUESTION: They say they're facing these clausesall the time. You say they're absolutely not facing them. Colorado isn't a place where this is appropriate. Andthat's the end of it, and let them sort it out. MR. OLSON: Well, I think it's very important toemphasize that this is a facial challenge to the statuteand to the system. And this Court has consistently saidthat unless there are no set of circumstances under whichthe regulation and the statute could be enforced on aconstitutional matter -- that's the Salerno case.QUESTION: But what's -- what's a facialchallenge in -- in this context? I mean, it seems to me alot of the questioning here and to Adarand's counsel hasbeen to show that Adarand was directly affected by thething. And so, I -- I don't think you're really talkingabout a facial challenge in the sense we use that in theFirst Amendment. MR. OLSON: I -- I respectfully disagree withrespect to whether Adarand was adversely affected by theprogram. They have not demonstrated that they lost a th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC single contract as a result of -- of the provisions whichthey're -- which they've decided now to challenge. QUESTION: Well, they certainly in -- in thecase we first -- we first decided, the case -- wedecided that they -- they were sufficiently affected, sowe ruled.MR. OLSON: Yes, and they were affected by --we're not contending that they did not have standing tochallenge that subcontracting compensation provision.QUESTION: It challenged that financialcompensation provision. MR. OLSON: Yes. QUESTION: Which now has been found to beunconstitutional. MR. OLSON: Yes. QUESTION: And it's out of the picture. MR. OLSON: That's correct. QUESTION: But now we have a new set ofarguments basically. MR. OLSON: Yes, and -- and to the extent that-- that the program, as it exists, requires people to --in order to be designated as a disadvantaged businessenterprise, must file certificates articulating that theyhave been the victim of a social and economicdisadvantage. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: What does that mean? MR. OLSON: Well, it's defined in the statute.QUESTION: I -- I could probably certify tothat.QUESTION: For yourself? QUESTION: Yes, absolutely. I mean, it dependswhat you mean by social or economic --MR. OLSON: Well, it's --QUESTION: There are country clubs I couldn'tget into. (Laughter.) MR. OLSON: It's -- it's explained in thestatute both with respect to ethnic and racial prejudicebecause of their identity as a group without regard toindividual qualities, and that economic disadvantage --the ability to compete in the free enterprise system hasdiminished capital and credit opportunities as compared toothers in the same business area --QUESTION: Either -- either social or economic,even though the social would -- would be quite irrelevantto whether you can --MR. OLSON: Both -- well, that's a social -- theuse of the term in the statute described a victim of -- ofprejudice or bias, and that has had economic effect on theindividual. Both of those points are required. The th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC regulations themselves --QUESTION: I think the form is attached to thereply brief of the --MR. OLSON: No. That -- that form is a --QUESTION: That is not the right form?MR. OLSON: That is not the right form. Thereis a -- that's a -- that's a part of a notice of proposedrulemaking. That form has never been adopted . I'm --I'm reasonably confident that it never will be adopted. The -- the regulations which explain in furtherdetail social and economic disadvantage are contained --QUESTION: I'm just saying if this isn't theright form, what is? The form has not yet --MR. OLSON: The forms -- the different Statesuse different forms. There's no uniform form. But theregulations explain --QUESTION: But apparently what -- what theagency proposed -- proposed on May th, -- simplysays, I hereby certify that I am a member of one of thefollowing groups -- you check the minority group -- andthat I have held myself out as a member of that group. Ifurther certify I am an owner of a company seeking DBEcertification and that I have experienced socialdisadvantage due to the effects of discrimination basedupon my -- check all that apply -- race, ethnicity, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC gender, other. Print name, signature, date. MR. OLSON: But that is --QUESTION: That's what the agency said. Let'sfloat this. Maybe this is what we'll adopt. Right? MR. OLSON: But the -- but the -- but that hasto be looked at in terms of the -- what the statutedefines as social and economic disadvantage and what theregulations, which are in -- at pages to a of theGovernment's appendix, which define -- which -- which arethe regulation -- Department of Transportationregulations. And it's a -- it's a rebuttable andchallengeable position, Justice Scalia. It has to besigned before a notary. The agency --QUESTION: Well, how would one go aboutrebutting it? I mean, who could rebut it and how wouldyou go about it? MR. OLSON: Any adversely affected party canrebut it. The State may challenge it. In fact --QUESTION: But, I mean, what -- what would youhave to show to rebut it? MR. OLSON: Well, what you have to show to beentitled to certification, according to the regulations,is substantial and chronic social disadvantage in thebusiness world and that -- and that credit has beenimpaired due to diminished capital or opportunities have th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC been impaired due to diminished capital and creditopportunities, as compared to others in the same orsimilar line of business. I submit --QUESTION: Social disadvantage in the businessworld. What is that? MR. OLSON: Social -- social disadvantage,Justice Scalia, is defined in the statute as having been avictim of racial or -- or prejudice of that nature, andthat it has produced economic disadvantage based upon --QUESTION: You say just two opposite things onthis economic disadvantage. You say in your brief thatthey -- you have to sign an affidavit that says my abilityto compete in the free enterprise system has been impaireddue to diminished capital and credit opportunities. Thenyou say, moreover, if you have more than $, networth, you're out of it. You can't qualify. They say something completely different. Theysay that if you have less than $,, you -- youautomatically qualify. So, that in fact, despite thosewords, all that you have to say is I have less than$,. That's the end of it. You qualify. You say,no, that isn't so at all. You're out if it's over --which is right? MR. OLSON: Well, I believe that we're correct. (Laughter.) th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. OLSON: Once you -- once you --QUESTION: That's the right answer. (Laughter.) MR. OLSON: And I hope I said it persuasively.(Laughter.) MR. OLSON: I think the regulations arerelatively clear. Once you've reached a certain plateauof economic category, you're out. And these -- thesecertifications are -- again, the regulations explain theState must conduct a relatively careful investigation ofapplications for certification. In fact, I understand --it's not in the record, but I understand in the last months in Colorado, out of applications, only or --QUESTION: So, your point, to be absolutelyexplicit, is if you are below the plateau, $,, youstill might not qualify as being economicallydisadvantaged.MR. OLSON: That's correct. That's ourposition. And I -- and I don't -- well, that is ourposition. I don't understand the analysis that would comeout the other way because I think the statute isrelatively clear with respect to that. The -- the -- so, the -- in the first place, thecertification process requires someone asserting underoath, because that -- that affidavit requirement is there, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC that subject to challenge -- Adarand itself said in itscert petition in the most recent case before this one thatit was not prepared to sign a certification about socialand economic disadvantage because it was afraid of beingprosecuted for fraud, perjury, and disbarment charges andthings of that -- that sort. So, there's plenty ofevidence that people take these things seriously, that thestatutory threshold and the regulatory threshold must bemet. It may be challenged by people. There are fieldprocedures in place and so forth. So, that's another stepof the narrow tailoring requirement that takes place withrespect to this process. So, we submit that with respect to the subjectof a compelling governmental interest, this Courtaddressed that very point in its first Adarand decision,and -- and made it clear in the last paragraph of part(d) of that opinion that the unhappy persistence of boththe practice and lingering effects of racialdiscrimination against minority groups in this country isan unfortunate reality. QUESTION: Well -- but when you get to that,General, you have this list of people. You know, some byculture, you know, people from the Northern Marianas,Macau, Fiji, Tonga, Kiribati, Tuvalu, Nauru, the FederatedState of Micronesia, Hong Kong. How did all -- what th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC studies put all those --MR. OLSON: Well, in the first place, there'sabout -some years of study by Congress of disadvantageand discrimination, which this Court recognized inFullilove and in Croson and in Adarand, that is takingplace in the contracting industry. Those -- thosecategories --QUESTION: The people from Macau werediscriminated in the contracting --MR. OLSON: People -- people of a certain racialbackground and a certain color are discriminated againstand those --QUESTION: But -- but this thing just sets itout in great detail by country. MR. OLSON: Well, I -- I submit that when you --if you were to describe different people of differentnational backgrounds or racial backgrounds that have beenguilty of discrimination, they may fall in any of thosecategories. They may come from a certain country inAfrica or -- or a certain country in Southeast Asia or acertain Hispanic community. That doesn't change the factthat what the racial discrimination is has been on thebasis of the characteristics of skin and nationality, ofwhich those are simply subgroups. QUESTION: Well, but -- but they aren't. It's th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC only those subgroups that get the preference. In -- in myexperience, racial discrimination is usually stupid enoughthat it's not that reticulated --MR. OLSON: Well --QUESTION: -- that you discriminate againstpeople from Gabon but -- but not from the next-doorcountry. That -- that's weird. MR. OLSON: Well, what -- what the Congress saidover and over again, on the basis of detailed analyticalstudies which are -- which are described in considerabledetail in the -- in the court of appeals opinion, and whatthis Court has said is that there has been the lingeringeffects, unfortunately, of publicly financeddiscrimination in the construction industry. What you're referring to, Justice Scalia, is aneffort by the Government. Now, we have all three branchesof Government recognizing a significant, serious problemthat Government has a responsibility to address. What the-- what the executive branch did with respect to theregulations in its programs is put a number of measures into attempt to meet the very points that this Courtsuggested that are ways to narrowly tailor the remedy,which is certainly something that the Government has aresponsibility to do, to make sure that only individualsthat fall into cases where there's actual -- actually been th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC discrimination are the beneficiaries and limits on theprogram to make sure that it does not go to a broader areaor longer temporally than it should. I submit that what we have here is the executivebranch attempting to respond to a legitimate seriousproblem that all three branches of Government have beenconcerned about in a highly responsible way. And in theface of a facial challenge, it cannot be said that thereare not ways that this -- these regulations can beimplemented in a constitutional fashion. And therefore, to the extent that there is afacial challenge, the petitioner has not met, by anystretch of the imagination, its burden. If anything, thiscase should be dismissed as improvidently granted, but ifthe Court rules on the merits, these programs areconstitutional against a facial challenge. QUESTION: Thank you, General Olson. Mr. Pendley, you have minutes remaining. REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF WILLIAM P. PENDLEYON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERMR. PENDLEY: Mr. Chief Justice, may it pleasethe Court:First of all, the -- the Department of Justiceguidelines, the proposed reforms have never gone final. They were put out in . They have never been th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC implemented in the direct Federal procurement program. Secondly and relatedly, they have beenimplemented to some degree with regard to the State aidprograms, but that case isn't at issue here. Thirdly, the Court held in Jacksonville --QUESTION: How do we know they haven't beenimplemented? The -- the Solicitor General tells us theyhave. MR. PENDLEY: The -- the Government concedes,with regard to the State aid program, that that's not atissue in this -- in this case, and that's in theGovernment's responsive brief. However, the -- theproposed reforms -- one need only look at the smallbusiness regulations at C.F.R. and also the -- the barregulations at C.F.R. Those are unchanged with regardto this race-neutral approach that the -- that the UnitedStates is talking about. In the -- in the Jacksonville case, what isnecessary for Adarand to show is its inability to competeon an equal footing, the back end. That's what this Courtheld in , and it is still unable to compete on anequal footing because of these very -- various programsthey have in place. In the City of Jacksonville, the Court -- thisCourt refused to permit the City of Jacksonville to remove th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC a program and submit a new program. And this Court said,you don't need to have the selfsame program to maintainyour challenge. The Government can't simply change the program,play this little shell game, and deny this Courtjurisdiction. This isn't even removing the whole program. This is simply changing the mechanism by which it isapplying it and saying, well, we're not using that bad,old SCC anymore, but we have this other bag of tricks thatwe're -- we're going to utilize. The -- the Court is absolutely right. Thesecontractors out there are on pain of loss of serious moneyif they don't comply with these mandatory subcontractingplans. The term is liquidated damages. In one contract,this guardrail subcontract, it was $,. If thatprime does not issue that contract to a DBE, he loses that$,. The United States takes it from him. This is both a facial and an as-appliedchallenge. We have made that clear consistently. We saythe statute is unconstitutional on both. And finally, let me draw the Court's attentionto the subcontracting decision by the Tenth Circuit. It'sat page to of Adarand's petition appendix. Andtherein, the Tenth Circuit makes it very clear there usedto be a bad, old SCC in . That isn't there anymore. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC We have a brand new SCC that's been changed and it won'tbe quite so -- quite so non-narrowly tailored. But therestill is an SCC in place. And finally, Your Honor, the United States toldthis Court that the benchmark study is overdue, and I knowin my bones, as I know that this case has gone on foreverby the United States' effort to make it go on forever andwith broad jurisdiction from this Court, that the day thiscase ends is the day the benchmark study comes out, andsuddenly and miraculously Colorado is back in theunderutilized category and all these mechanisms apply. I think it's incredibly amazing that on the thof March of , the man in charge of this program said,don't use the SCC, continue to use the FAR and itsmandatory subcontracting plans, and that weeks before wefiled that lodging that showed all those mandatorysubcontracting plans, suddenly his instruction from theth of March of was withdrawn and said, wait, wait,don't use the mandatory subcontracting plans out of theFAR. Use the set-asides instead. And whether they callit the set-aside or the mandatory subcontracting plans orthe subcontracting compensation clause or the priceevaluation adjustments, Adarand is still denied that equalfooting this Court found in . I urge this Court to reach this case on the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC merits because the day this Court says it's moot is theday Adarand gets standing again because it loses anothercontract because this program is applied in Colorado, andAdarand will start this sad process again. Thank you for the Court's indulgence. CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: Thank you, Mr.Pendley.The case is submitted. (Whereupon, at : a.m., the case in theabove-entitled matter was submitted.) th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC 