 IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XTRACY RAGSDALE, Petitioner ::v. : No. -WOLVERINE WORLD WIDE, INC. :- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XWashington, D.C.Monday, January , The above-entitled matter came on for oralargument before the Supreme Court of the United States at: a.m.APPEARANCES:LUTHER O. SUTTER, ESQ., Little Rock, Arkansas; on behalfof the Petitioner.MALCOLM L. STEWART, ESQ., Assistant to the SolicitorGeneral, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; onbehalf of the United States, as amicus curiae,supporting the Petitioner.RICHARD D. BENNETT, ESQ., Memphis, Tennessee; on behalf ofthe Respondent. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC C O N T E N T SORAL ARGUMENT OF LUTHER O. SUTTER, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioner ORAL ARGUMENT OFMALCOLM L. STEWARTOn behalf of the United States, as amicus curiae,supporting the Petitioner ORAL ARGUMENT OFRICHARD D. BENNETT, ESQ.On behalf of the Respondent REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OFLUTHER O. SUTTER, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioner PAGE th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC P R O C E E D I N G S(: a.m.)CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: We'll hear argumentnow in Number -, Tracy Ragsdale v. Wolverine WorldWide.Mr. Sutter.ORAL ARGUMENT OF LUTHER O. SUTTERON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERMR. SUTTER: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court:The FMLA guarantees much more than weeks ofabsence from work. The FMLA guarantees a specific bundleof statutory rights that an employer must grant eligibleemployees. In many cases, the company's leave plan, as isthe case here, may provide different rights from thebundle of rights that the FMLA grants eligible employees.. and .(a) implement the statute in animportant way.Under the regulations, . and , if theemployer wants a period of absences or leave to countagainst a worker's annual FMLA entitlement, the employermust do three things. First, the company must decide togrant the worker this bundle of rights that the FMLAgrants him or her. Second, the employer must tell theemployee that they have these benefit rights, and third, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC the employer must tell the employee that the employer haselected to count this period of leave against the FMLA.QUESTION: Does the act require the posting ofsome general notice in the place of employment about theFamily Leave Act?MR. SUTTER: Yes, Justice O'Connor, it does. U.S.C. provides that each employer shall post ageneral notice in the form that the Secretary shallprescribe, so Congress painted it in broad brush strokesand intended that the Secretary had the ability to providewhat information is provided to employees.QUESTION: Well, can the Secretary then providethat it has to be done by personal communication?MR. SUTTER: Well, Your Honor, that is just --as this Court noted in the FDA case, just simply becausethe Secretary has spoken and required posting in thisinstance does not mean that the Secretary cannot fill thegap, as it were, and require personal notice if theSecretary determines that such notice is reasonablynecessary to implement the act.In this case, Justice O'Connor, I think allwould agree that it is difficult to exercise a right thatone does not know that one has, and in this case theSecretary decided that the employer must first chooseto -- that the FMLA -- that the worker will get the FMLA th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC rights, and then tell the employee, and this regulationpromotes communication, communication between the employerand the employee.QUESTION: Mr. Sutter, may I ask if -- in thiscase, as I understand it, the employee initially did notqualify for the FMLA leave because she hadn't been therelong enough. The FMLA is weeks. Her initial weeks,the first weeks had to be under the company policybecause there was nothing else, so is the thrust of yourargument that therefore she is entitled to a minimum of weeks, even assuming notice at the time that FMLA comesactive?MR. SUTTER: Justice Ginsburg, the thrust of myargument is, is that the FMLA is more than just weeks. The FMLA is a specific bundle of rights --QUESTION: Yes, well, that's a separatequestion, but let's assume that there's no difference inthe rights under each, and in this case I don't know thatthat bundle that you describe is any different under thecompany plan as far as continuing the insurance and thepension payments, but is it your contention that she wouldtherefore, because she didn't have enough to qualify forthe FMLA leave, she would get weeks --MR. SUTTER: Yes, Your Honor.QUESTION: -- and not ? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. SUTTER: Yes, Your Honor, because the actprovides that only eligible employees are entitled to FMLAleave, and eligible employees must have worked for thatemployer for months, and at the --QUESTION: So it's a little odd that when shedidn't qualify she gets extra time than if she had alreadybeen there long enough to qualify, in which case it wouldbe only weeks.MR. SUTTER: Well, I can see where one mightbelieve that it is a bit odd, but again, Justice Ginsburg,the company leave plan in this case did not provide herwith all of the FMLA bundle of rights.QUESTION: Why didn't it?QUESTION: Why didn't it?MR. SUTTER: Because the leave plan in thiscase, for example, did not allow her to have intermittentleave. Section --QUESTION: She wasn't able to have intermittentleave anyway, as I understand it. The doctor didn't allowher to go back to work even intermittently until theperiod was over.MR. SUTTER: Well, Justice Scalia, the doctoronly had two options. Because the employer elected on thefront end not to allow Ms. Ragsdale her bundle of FMLArights, the doctor had two options. Either Ms. Ragsdale th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC quit, or she cannot work for days. There's a thirdoption that would have become involved had the employergiven the employee notice of a right to --QUESTION: You mean the doctor skewed hismedical advice and told her you can't work at all onlybecause the employer hadn't told her she could workintermittently? I can't imagine that.MR. SUTTER: Well, it's --QUESTION: The problem I have with your case isnot -- not the rule that the employer has to give notice. That's a perfectly reasonable rule. The problem I have isthe remedy that is provided if the rule is violated. Now,under that provision of the act which imposes a penaltywhen the employer fails to comply with the provision ofthe act, what you're entitled to is damages, what youwould have lost, what you've lost by reason of theemployer's noncompliance.In this case, I don't see anything at all thatshe lost, and the penalty under the regulation that isimposed for noncompliance with the notice is an entirefree additional weeks. It goes beyond any damages shesuffered at all.MR. SUTTER: Well, Justice Scalia, we -- it isdifficult, looking , years later, to determine whetheror not Ms. Ragsdale would have been able to work th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC intermittently. We contend that she would have been. However, having said that --QUESTION: Well, but under the damage provisionof the act you have to prove that. Why isn't itreasonable to say the employer has to make her good forany damages she suffered, and if you could show that shesuffered something because of it, fine, but what thisregulation says is, she gets a whole nother weeks,whether in fact she could have made use of that notice ornot, and as I read the facts I don't see anything shecould have done if she had gotten the notice. I think shewould have been in the same position she's in now.MR. SUTTER: Well, certainly the district courtdid not address the issue of prejudice. However, theSecretary could have reasonably determined that monetarypenalties were appropriate. However, the Secretarydecided that the FMLA is not simply money to be bought orto be sold or exchanged. The FMLA is a specific bundle ofrights that the employee has different rights andobligations under. If the employ -- the -- Ms. Ragsdalein this case never got FMLA leave because the employernever designated it as FMLA leave.QUESTION: But as Justice Scalia points out, theemployee under your view gets even more than she'sentitled to under the act under certain circumstances. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Suppose that the notice isn't given, and she takes leave,and medical benefits are not paid. I assume the employerhas to pay for medical benefits.MR. SUTTER: Right.QUESTION: And also give additional weeks. That seems -- it seems to me that you're having it bothways.MR. SUTTER: No, Justice Kennedy, I do notbelieve that we are, because in this case, while thestatute explicitly requires weeks of leave in anyperiod, (b)() also allows employees to extend that weeks over a calendar year using intermittent leave, solooking at this case as simply a calculation of weeks isinaccurate.QUESTION: But I put you the case in which she Iwould think would be entitled to back -- to compensatorydamages for not having been paid her medical benefits, andin addition, so that during the period that she took offthe Government counts that for purposes of monetaryliability, but it doesn't count that for purposes ofaccrued leave, so she's entitled to monetary compensationfor the benefits that weren't paid during that unnoticedleave period, and she's entitled to an additional weeks. That just doesn't make sense.MR. SUTTER: Well, Justice Kennedy, the specific th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC issue here is what happens when the employer provides theemployee with less rights than the FMLA bundle of rightsprovides. When the --QUESTION: And the answer is that she ends upwith more than what the Family Leave Act would haveprovided.MR. SUTTER: In this case, Justice Kennedy, interms of time I believe the Court is correct. However, interms of the specific bundle of rights, the issue for thisCourt to determine is whether or not the Secretary hasacted reasonably when, in circumstances such as these, theemployee receives less than what she is entitled tospecifically.QUESTION: I don't -- well, I don't agree thatthat's the issue. I don't think you've established thatshe was deprived of any right that she would have beenentitled to under the act. You're simply asserting thatshe -- had she received the notice she might have workedintermittently, but as far as the medical advice isconcerned she couldn't have worked intermittently. Don'tyou think you have some obligation to provide that she wasdeprived of some of the benefits of the act?MR. SUTTER: The Secretary may have reasonablyrequired that this analysis occur after the need forintermittent leave arose. However, the Secretary, to th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC avoid just these types of misunderstandings, required thedesignation to be on --QUESTION: It's a prophylactic rule that theSecretary has adopted, even though the statute itself, inthe provisions that it sets forth for where the employerhas failed to comply with the act, does not adopt aprophylactic rule. It says you give the employee thedamages that the employee is entitled to.MR. SUTTER: Under either a Morning prophylacticrule, or the interpretive powers granted the Secretaryunder Chevron, we believe the regulation is entirelyappropriate because the issue of notice is not addressed.QUESTION: Well, may I go back to the questionof what the damages are? On your view, or on theSecretary's view, does the employee get another weeksof leave if the employee does not need another weeks ofleave?MR. SUTTER: If the employee does not need --QUESTION: Let's assume the employee is cured. Does the employee then have the right to enjoy weeksoff?MR. SUTTER: Not unless, for example, she isinvolved in a serious car accident, another serious --QUESTION: Well, no, but my hypothesis is thatwhatever the reason for the leave was, sickness or th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC pregnancy, be whatever, it's over, so that I take it thatthe additional weeks, or only an additional weeks,if the person still has some medical or social need forthe leave.MR. SUTTER: That's exactly correct, Justice.QUESTION: As I understand what Judge McGillsaid in the Eighth Circuit, he did say that he -- therecould be cases where it would be appropriate for thisregulation to apply if she could show that she wasdisadvantaged by not being given the option, so he leftthat door open if there were some disadvantage. He saidhe saw none here.MR. SUTTER: Yes, and that's an entirelyreasonable interpretation, a reasonable alternative towhat the Secretary did here, but that is not the -- JudgeMcGill did not give the Secretary the appropriatedeference that she is entitled to in promulgating thisregulation. This regulation says that determinationshould be made when the intermittent leave may or may notbe needed.QUESTION: But his reason, I understand, wasthat Congress said weeks, and to interpret that statutethat says weeks to mean weeks, or in this case even more than that -- because the company leave was weeks,right? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. SUTTER: The company granted weeks pre-FMLA eligibility and weeks post.QUESTION: So his view was that the regulationconflicted with the statute.MR. SUTTER: Well, and as this Court recognizedin the FDA case, you cannot read one statute in isolation. You have to also look at not only (a), which saysspecifically weeks of leave in any -month period,thereby leaving it open for, as the Secretary has done inthis case, identifying four different ways to calculate weeks. For example, it could be backward-looking. Youcan -- the employer can look back weeks if it choosesto do so, or it can look forward.For example, if I have a broken leg -- if I havea broken leg, and then I recover from that, and then Ihave another serious health condition, you can actuallylook forward to the forward-looking weeks, the -month period, so if you take months out of a calendaryou can actually, depending on how you calculate it, have weeks of leave, depending on how they may calculate it.Now, I would urge the Court to read (a) inconjunction with (b)() which allows intermittentleave, which can extend FMLA leave over a period of weeks if they work half-time, weeks if they work three-quarter time. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC May I reserve my time for rebuttal?QUESTION: Very well, Mr. Sutter.Mr. Stewart, we'll hear from you.ORAL ARGUMENT OF MALCOLM L. STEWARTON BEHALF OF THE UNITED STATES, AS AMICUS CURIAE,SUPPORTING THE PETITIONERMR. STEWART: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court:The Secretary of Labor has determined that anemployee can derive the maximum benefit from the FMLA onlyif he has accurate information concerning the act,including the fact that his leave will count against his-week FMLA entitlement. To implement that determin --QUESTION: Mr. Stewart, do you think that thatcan be met by just posting some general notice saying thatany leave taken by an employee is going to require takingFMLA leave first?MR. STEWART: No, we don't, Your Honor. Thestatute itself requires that an employer post notice insuch form as is directed by the Secretary. The Secretaryhas addressed the type of notice that must be posted forthe workforce generally, but the Secretary has alsodetermined that, although the general posting requirementis helpful, an employee who is actually on the point oftaking leave for an FMLA-covered purpose needs additional th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC information concerning the rights and responsibilitiesunder the act, so the employer couldn't comply with theregulatory requirement simply by posting a notice for theworkforce generally, and the intention here is not topenalize the employer for noncompliance with theregulation. Rather, the Secretary's determination is thata precondition to effective exercise of FMLA rights isfull and complete information concerning the dictates ofthe act, including the fact that the leave will countagainst the -week entitlement.QUESTION: That's fine, but where the employeehas no FMLA rights, that is to say, where the leave thatthe employer provides gives the employee everything thatthe employee would have under the FMLA, why should theemployee get another weeks?MR. STEWART: First, it's not --QUESTION: The problem is not the requirement --to my mind is not the requirement of notice at thebeginning of the leave. It's the penalty that theSecretary chooses to impose when that notice is not given.MR. STEWART: Well, first it's not clear in manycases, and it's not clear in this case, whether in factthe leave that the employer provided complied with all therequirements of the act. That is, Mr. Sutter has arguedthat the employer's plan doesn't contain a right to th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC intermittent leave. Now, there's a further question ofwhether this particular employee could have effectively utilized the FMLA right to intermittent leave if she hadknown she had it, but the thrust of the --QUESTION: Well, I agree that those arequestions, but it seems to me those are questions thathave to be answered by the person who is seeking to imposea liability on the employer.MR. STEWART: But the thrust of the Secretary'sregulation is that it is better to have a bright line rulethan to require the courts to engage in after-the-factspeculative inquiries regarding what might have been donemonths or years earlier if the requisite notice had beengiven and this, to the extent this is harsh, it is harshin the same way that a statute of limitations is harsh. Clearly, when a plaintiff with a meritorious claim has hissuit dismissed because he's missed the statutorylimitations period by a small number of days, there's anelement of unfairness there, but the justification forhaving a bright line rule is, first a bright line rule islikely to produce --QUESTION: The statutes of limitations are notimposed by regulation. They're imposed by statute.MR. STEWART: Certainly, statutory -- statutesof limitations by definition are imposed by the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC legislature, but there are instances, and we've cited onein our brief, in which an administrative agency that isgiven authority to resolve complaints under an act may beauthorized to promulgate reasonable procedural regulationsto implement that directive, and that might include therequirement that a claim be filed within a certain numberof days.QUESTION: What case is --QUESTION: Mr. Stewart --MR. STEWART: This is on page of our brief infootnote . We've cited Rennie v. Skerrett, which is aSeventh Circuit case that discusses predecessor versionsof the current EEOC regulations which provide that Federalemployees claiming discrimination under title VII mustpresent their claims to the agency within a specifiednumber of days.QUESTION: But here there's something reallystrange about it. That is, they couldn't give the notice. When she started on leave she wasn't entitled to anything,so here's an employer being more generous than the Federallaw requires in that he's covering her although she'sworked less than a year, so there's no question of givingthe notice when she's put on leave because she's notentitled to any Federal leave, isn't that so?MR. STEWART: Well, first the regulation -- she th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC was not entitled to FMLA leave at the time of her firstrequest, but in fact the DOL regulations specificallyrequire that if an employee requests leave for an FMLA-covered purpose but is not yet eligible for theprotections of the FMLA, the employer is required tonotify the employee of the time when she will becomeeligible, and second, at any rate, when the employee madeher first request for extension of leave she had passedthe -month period and she was eligible for theprotections of the act, and it's true that in terms of thesheer number of weeks of leave that it was willing togive, the company was more generous than the act required,but the fact that an individual or a business goes beyondthe requirements of the law in some respects doesn'texcuse its noncompliance with other aspects of the law.QUESTION: I don't see any noncompliance. Yousaid about the intermittent, that's fuzzy, but they --their leave policy covered the health insurance, coveredthe pension payments.MR. STEWART: Well, the intermittent leave isitself important, and again there may be a substantialquestion as to whether this particular employee could havemade effective use of the FMLA right to intermittent leavehad she known she had it, and the Secretary might, as theEighth Circuit suggested, have adopted the regulatory th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC approach under which that would be the dispositiveinquiry, but instead the Secretary has chosen topromulgate a bright line rule.QUESTION: A prophylactic rule, which thestatute itself does not do. I mean, section (a)()requires that when an employer violates section hehas to pay damages equal to the amount of, and then itgoes through, any wages he lost, salary he's lost,employment benefits he's lost, and the Secretary comes upwith this new rule in which it doesn't matter whether theemployee's been damaged at all, we're going to impose aprophylactic rule. I don't know any other situation inwhich an agency is authorized to do that.MR. STEWART: Well, in this case the statute notonly gives the agency general rulemaking authority butalso provides that it will be a violation of the act foran employer to interfere with or restrain an employee inher exercise of FMLA rights and, by its nature, thatlanguage presumes that there will be instances in whichemployer conduct is not in terms prohibited by the act,but is likely to have the practical effect of dissuadingor preventing employees from effectively exercising theirstatutory --QUESTION: But if she had no rights, he's notguilty of that. I mean, what this regulation is saying th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC is, whether or not the employer in this particular caserestrained her exercise of rights, whether or not shecould have taken intermittent leave, he's going to have togive her another weeks.MR. STEWART: Well, under the NLRB, under theNLRB's approach to implementation of the NLRA, thequestion of whether employer conduct has interfered withor restrained the exercise of protected rights is notresolved by asking whether particular employees were, infact, deterred from engaging in protected conduct. It'swhether the employer conduct is of a nature that couldreasonably be expected to have that effect, and theSecretary's determination is that failing to inform theemployee that her time is being counted against the -week FMLA entitlement and then dismissing her while shestill has the serious health condition will have thepractical effect of interfering with, or is likely to havethe practical effect of interfering with or restrainingher exercise of protected rights.And again, the Secretary could have chosen anapproach under which a more case-specific evidence wouldbe offered as to the actual use the employee might havemade of the information, but the Secretary was notrequired to do so, and again, this is comparable to thesituation in a statute of limitations situation where, if th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC a suit is filed --QUESTION: Well, under the statute oflimitations, if a district judge throws out a suit becausea -year statute has run and then the appellate court saidno, you -- there was weeks available there and it wasfiled on time, we don't give them a whole new years. That's what you're doing.MR. STEWART: Well, the analogy to the statuteof limitations is really that, if the statute oflimitations has expired, we don't ask whether thedefendant could have done anything differently, or whetherthe defendant was prejudiced by the absence of noticewithin the -year period. The -- for purposes of yourhypothetical, though, the situation might also be comparedto a tolling provision in a statute of limitations thatsays the statute will not begin to run until the potentialplaintiff has received a particular item of information.If that were the situation, then the statute oflimitations simply doesn't begin to run until theplaintiff knows that, and we don't ask whether theplaintiff would have done anything differently had shereceived the information sooner.And again, this is not intended as a penalty oreven as a penalty for the employer's noncompliance withthe regulatory requirement. Rather, the gist of the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Secretary's determination is, in order to make effectiveuse of FMLA rights, this sort of information is aprecondition, and therefore it's a natural approach tosay, until the employee has that information the -weekperiod will not begin to run.QUESTION: Mr. Stewart, suppose somebody hasworked for months but the company has leave that kicksin that early, and then months later would qualify forthe FMLA, but -- or has already had much more than the weeks of leave, hasn't been given notice because therewasn't any eligibility, what happens then?MR. STEWART: May I answer?QUESTION: Yes.MR. STEWART: There's a separate provision inthe statute that makes eligibility for FMLA benefitscontingent upon having worked , hours in the precedingcalendar year and, therefore, it's likely that an employeewho had worked only months and then had been on leavefor months would fail to satisfy that requirement.QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. Stewart.Mr. Bennett, we'll hear from you.ORAL ARGUMENT OF RICHARD D. BENNETTON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTMR. BENNETT: Good morning, Mr. Chief Justice,may it please the Court: th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC The employer notice regulations the petitionerand DOL are defending here today allow employee -- they'repremised on -- their arguments are, Your Honor, are thatthey allow employees the right to, quote, plan leave, tocommunicate with each other. What they have done tothis -- these regulations is elevate this right, thisperceived right to plan leave -- if it's a right, it's animplicit right in the statute, Your Honor. It's not anexpressed right, if it's a right at all, and they haveelevated this right above the expressed right in thestatute to have leave limited to a total of weeks ofleave.What they have in essence done through thisregulation is what the most skilled and persuasivelegislative body in this country could not do, and thatwas entitle employees to leave for more than weeks ofleave. Congress clearly attempted to do that. This leavewent through a number of forms before it was eventuallypassed by Congress. The first piece of legislationproviding for family medical leave in provided for weeks of leave for employees for these conditions, andthat bill did not pass Congress. The th Congress cameback with a leave for weeks leave over months, andagain that deal couldn't pass Congress.It was only when Congress limited the leave to a th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC total of weeks of leave over a -month period of timethat they were able to pass this particular piece oflegislation. Congress specifically spoke in the statuteand in, more abundantly in the legislative historysurrounding this particular statute, that their primaryintent and focus was to limit leave to a total of weeksof leave, to grant employees this minimal leave right.QUESTION: Suppose -- I suppose that theGovernment didn't think of what it was doing as giving anextra weeks of leave. They didn't see it that way. Iimagine the way they saw it is that we think the employeehas to have notice at the time that this counts as hisFMLA leave, and what happens if he doesn't get it? If hedoesn't get it, it doesn't count as FMLA leave. That's avery simple requirement and a very simple remedy, and ithas the consequence you spoke of, but if that isn't thesimple remedy, they shouldn't have done that simpleremedy, what, in your opinion, should they have done,assuming the problem?MR. BENNETT: Again, the issue, as JusticeScalia has pointed out, is not the requirement --QUESTION: That's what I'm assuming. I'massuming that they come across a real problem. The realproblem is, no, or very few employees, or not manyemployees notice what's going on until the moment that th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC they have to go for the chemotherapy. At that point theyworry about leave, and so the agency says, employer, ifyou want it to count as FMLA leave, tell themspecifically.Now, we all agree that's fine, and then whathappens if you don't? Well, they say, it doesn't count. That's all. Now, you think that part is wrong. Now, Iwant to know, if you think that's wrong, what should, inyour opinion, the agency have done there instead?MR. BENNETT: Congress specified a monetarypenalty. In the statute itself, Congress said you shallpost a notice advising employees of what their rights are. If an employer, Your Honor, does not post a notice at all,doesn't in any way advise their employees of what theirrights are under the statute, completely ignores thestatutory provision to post this notice, all theemployer -- all -- the only penalty the employer gets is amonetary penalty --QUESTION: In your opinion, it would have been abetter remedy if the agency had said, and if you don'ttell them, you have to pay them $, cash. That, inyour opinion would have -- I imagine a few employers mighthave objected to that.MR. BENNETT: I think the -- some employersmight object to the amount of the penalty, Your Honor. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: Oh well, let's say $,.MR. BENNETT: I believe --QUESTION: $, cash to any employee becausethe notice provision wasn't given, and all smallemployers, large employers, any time they fail to -- now,would you have -- you would have preferred that remedy. Do you think most employers would have preferred thatremedy? What amount do you think it should have been?MR. BENNETT: Well, aside from constitutionalissues as a penalty, I believe you have to look at whatCongress intended. Congress intended that employees getthe notice, and where -- excuse me, get the leave, andCongress specifically provided where -- a notice provisionwithin the statute, and that notice provision, Congresssaid, if you don't give it, a penalty is appropriate. DOLhas now come up with a whole new penalty that far exceedsin this --QUESTION: I'm just trying to make -- to try tounderstand, to put you in the position of the agency. They're trying to do something, and they're trying to finda remedy for not doing it, and you say it should have beenlike $, payment, and I want you to see that a lot ofpeople might have thought that was much worse than simplysaying, don't count it as leave. Some might have thoughtit was better. So doesn't the agency have a range where th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC they can choose what's reasonable?MR. BENNETT: I believe the agency does have arange to choose what's reasonable, Your Honor, but I don'tbelieve --QUESTION: Could the agency choose a monetarypenalty? Could the agency as a matter of administrativediscretion impose a penalty, or would that have to comefrom the -- is that even within the realm of choice thatthe agency would have?MR. BENNETT: Well, again, one of thecontingents we raise, Your Honor, is that Congressspecifically spoke to notice, all the notice that'srequired under the statute. We contend that the DOL doesnot have the right to come in and promulgate a regulationthat an employer notify an employee specifically andprospectively that they're using leave, but to the extentthat they do, to the extent that there's some perceivedgap in there where they do have the right to do that, theycan't do that where it's manifestly contrary to thestatute. In this statute, the primary focus --QUESTION: But the question is, let's assumethat it would be permissible for the Secretary to say,give them notice that the leave counts as this -- for thispurpose, that that would be permissible. That was anassumption that Justice Scalia was making. Then what does th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC the Secretary have in her arsenal to put teeth behindthat, if not the extension of the period?MR. BENNETT: Again, the Secretary can exercisethe discretion to determine a -- fashion a reasonableremedy for the company's failure to provide this notice,but that remedy, Your Honor, cannot exceed --QUESTION: Well, what would be reasonable? Thefine question maybe a question whether the Secretary hasauthority to do it. What, other than saying the perioddoesn't run if you don't give the notice, could theSecretary have done?MR. BENNETT: Your Honor, I believe the penaltythat the Secretary should have granted in this particularcase, or authorized under this regulation, would be amonetary penalty. Congress said $ for not telling theemployees at all.QUESTION: Would there ever be an instance inwhich the Secretary, on a case-by-case basis, could saythat we are ordering you to grant additional family leave? I.e., suppose the employee knows that his wife is going tohave a difficult pregnancy and he says, I'm going to takesome time off under the company plan at the early stagesand I'll save my family leave for later, and he makes amistake, and the mistake is compounded by the fact thatthere was no notice. Assume that notice is required, and th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC that that's valid. Would there ever be an instance inwhich additional leave would be an appropriate remedialstep?MR. BENNETT: Your Honor, I'm not sure thatthere would be. The statute provides that an employercannot interfere or restrain. Where an employee feelsthat, indeed, because the employer didn't notify, thatthey've interfered or restrained, the statute provides acause of action for that, for the courts to determine, andI suppose they could file a claim with DOL, and in thatsituation they may be able to step in and fashion aremedy, but they'd have to show that, indeed, they somehowinterfered with --QUESTION: Well, could that remedy ever consistof granting additional leave?MR. BENNETT: I suppose, in those situations --QUESTION: Assuming the employee was prejudicedin a case that's -- on a case-by-case basis.MR. BENNETT: We contend, Your Honor, they couldnot. The statute provides for leave. You would look inthat case the same as you would, Your Honor, under theFair Labor Standards Act for minimum wage. You look firstto see whether or not the basic benefit of the statute wasgranted. Under the Fair Labor Standards Act for minimumwage, for instance, you first look to see if the employee th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC is paid minimum wage. The employee may file a complaintbecause the employer failed to adequately notify theemployee that they were paying them minimum wage. Theydidn't note it on their check stub, and the employeecouldn't tell they were being paid the wage.The first thing you make a determination of waswhether the employee received the minimum wage. If theydo --QUESTION: Yes, but minimum wages, all we'retalking about is the dollars. Here we're talking abouttime as well.MR. BENNETT: Correct, Your Honor, but if,indeed, the employee --QUESTION: And that's the currency the agencyhas to deal with, and you say under no circumstance maythe Secretary, however reasonable the employee's reliancewas, however faulty the notice was, under no circumstancemay they ever give additional leave.MR. BENNETT: Provided the leave already grantedby the -- provided the employee had already been given weeks of leave under the conditions contained within thestatute, Your Honor, that is our contention.QUESTION: Well, I'm not sure it's incumbentupon you to write a regulation for the agency. I gatheryour point is that whatever the remedy provided by the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC agency, it has to be a remedy that is attached to the harmthat has been caused. I gather your main point is, noharm, no foul. If the employee has not been deprived ofanything he's entitled to under the statute, there'ssimply no basis for remedy at all.Now, what the remedy might be had the employershown that the employee could have had intermittent leave,or if there's something else that the employee could havedone with notice, that's not the case that you're arguingto us, is it?MR. BENNETT: Your Honor, that's not ourspecific case, that's correct.QUESTION: Well, but it might be the case if westipulate that in some instances additional leave must begranted.MR. BENNETT: It could be the case --QUESTION: If we stipulate that.MR. BENNETT: Correct, Your Honor.QUESTION: Then what the agency, what theGovernment is going to say, Department of Labor is, well,since in some instances you grant leave it's justadministratively simpler for us to do it this way and youalways get the leave.MR. BENNETT: Again, Your Honor --QUESTION: So it does make a difference in th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC answering the question whether or not leave can ever be aneffective standard.MR. BENNETT: Your Honor, again, under thestatute, you read the statute, you look at the legislativehistory surrounding the statute, prior to the enactment ofthis statute Congress specifically noted in thelegislative history that the United States stood alone inthe industrialized world as not having leave for theseparticular types of conditions. Prior to the enactment ofthis statute, employees in this country didn't have theright to take week of leave. Congress was looking toprovide that the employees could get the leave.For an employee who receives weeks of leaveeven if the employee doesn't understand that the leave isstanding medical leave, what Congress was attempting to dounder the Family and Medical Leave Act, Your Honor, willhave been satisfied, again assuming, Your Honor, that theleave was for the four conditions that they provide in thestatute and that the employer at least granted them weeks of leave, held their job open for weeks of leave,did not in any way take away benefits that they had priorto taking the leave, and they helped maintain their healthinsurance. That was what Congress --QUESTION: I think there was one argument in thebrief that she could have initially had the company leave th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC when she wasn't eligible yet, and then she could have saidat that point, weeks later when she became eligible forthe FMLA leave, she could say, okay, company, stop thecompany leave. Now I'm taking my weeks of Federalleave, and when I finish that, I'll go back and pick upthe rest of my company leave. That she couldn't do here. That one argument in the brief for petitioner was to thateffect, and how do you respond to that?MR. BENNETT: Your Honor, we -- that is a goodpoint that Your Honor makes. What -- DOL has taken thestatute out of context, and what they are creating is aseparate category of leave specifically coded as, quote,FMLA leave. The statute doesn't mention that FMLA leavewas to be in addition to any company leave. As a matterof fact, the statute and the legislative history isreplete with references that Congress was well aware thatemployers out there such as my client had more generousleave policies. They put a provision within the statuteand said, we do not intend by the enactment of thisstatute to discourage you from retaining those benefits oreven providing even more generous benefits. What we'retrying to do -- and they also provided in that very samestatute, Your Honor, that employers cannot craft aregulation, or craft leave policies that go below.What they intended to do was, where an employer th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC had a leave policy that provided for leave, under thesecircumstances, if an employer had a policy that in allintent and circumstances would allow an employee off forleave for the four conditions they prescribed, if theleave was job-protected, health insurance was maintained,an employee didn't lose any other benefits while they wereout on leave, but the employer's leave was only for weeks, all this act did was cause -- was augment thatemployer's policy to require the employer to provide theemployee an additional weeks of leave. This act wasn'tmeant to require the employer to grant the employee anadditional weeks on top of the they already --excuse -- weeks on top of the they already had. Congress could have said that in the statute.QUESTION: What if the employer's leave doesn'tprecisely mirror the statutory requirements? For example,what if the employer's leave does not allow intermittentleave? It says, you've got to take your weeks in onebig lump. You can't work, you know, half a week here,half a week there.MR. BENNETT: The statute deals with that, YourHonor, in the section dealing with interference. In thatcase the employee makes a request that they needintermittent leave, which they have a right to do underthe statute. Congress specifically granted that. Then, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC indeed, the employer's policy, to the extent they did not,they would be found -- the leave would not be consistentwith family medical leave and you've now interfered withthe employees' leave, and then the question becomes theremedy for that interference.QUESTION: But of course the employee has toknow about the -- that particular right in order to invokeit.Going back to Justice O'Connor's question ofyour opponent, did your client give the statutory -- postthe statutory notices?MR. BENNETT: Yes, Your Honor, we posted thestatutory notices, and as a matter of fact, because myclient has its own company-provided leave policy, this waswithin a collective bargaining agreement, and it's alsowithin the employee's handbook, so the employees wereaware of it through the collective bargaining agreement,through the employee handbook which was handed out alongwith the collective bargaining agreement to all employees. The employer, my particular client, Your Honor, has a -day orientation process, and on one of those days theyspecifically go over with employees what their leaverights are on -- for -- with the company, so this employeehas notice provisions.QUESTION: But that notice described the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC collective bargaining agreement. Did it also describe thestatutory requirements?MR. BENNETT: I do not believe there was anyspecific reference to the FMLA notice posting, Your Honor.I -- the employees are shown the bulletin board where allthose notices are posted, title VII, wage and hour, andFMLA, but no, they're not specifically -- there's not aspecific discussion --QUESTION: So that to the extent that there mayhave been a difference between the statutory requirementand the company policy, they would not have been advisedof the statutory requirement.MR. BENNETT: Not by the company, Your Honor,but the statute doesn't require that. Congress said,here's the way employees should get notice. Congresscould have crafted another way for employees to receivenotice, but they said notice to the employees shall bemade in this manner, and a general employer notice beposted to all employees, the same as the Congress has donefor many of our other labor employment law standards. They have said that's the method we find the best tonotify employees of their rights.Employees are notified of their rights under theADA in the very same manner. That statute is much morecomplicated than this particular statute, where an th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC employee who has a disability that could prevent them fromworking at all, not just for a few weeks but at all, hasto know that they have to request an accommodation beforean employer has a right to grant you one. That notice ismerely a notice posting on the bulletin board for theemployer, for the employee to know what their rights arein this statute, and this one is no different, Your Honor.DOL has crafted a whole new regulation. Thisregulation adds a whole new requirement on receivingleave.QUESTION: If the requirement was so difficultto deal with, one would expect there would have been somecomment to that effect. This is with notice and commentrulemaking, and as I understand it there was no comment byemployers about the requirement that notice be given thatthe leave is counting as family leave.MR. BENNETT: I believe there was a notice onthese regulations when they came out initially, and thenthey issued final regulations, and I can't speak directlyas to the comments that were -- all the comments that weremade about this one particular regulation, but I believethe DOL in their brief does mention that there was not aobjection --QUESTION: Yes.MR. BENNETT: -- specific objection by employers th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC to that, and I believe that to be accurate, Your Honor,but I don't believe -- and I can attest for my client'spurpose that we did recognize from reading that that whatwe were going to have to do was grant additional leave,additional leave, that we're not going to be able to grantadditional leave, that we're going to have to grantadditional leave over and above what we've given them. We've given weeks already for --QUESTION: But why wouldn't they recognize that,because that's what the regulation said. The regulationwasn't trying to disguise that that would be --MR. BENNETT: No, Justice Ginsburg, it was not. I just do not believe that employers fully understood thatthat was the penalty provision under this particularregulation. It's now become very obvious that that'sthe -- that's a very steep penalty for employers who failto provide the specific prospective notice to employees.The statute says, employer, if you get -- if anemployee lets you know that they have -- they need leavefor one of these four conditions, you're to look at that,make a determination whether or not the leave they areasking for falls within one of those four issues, whetherit's a serious health of themselves, or family, or a birthor adoption. If it does, then employer, your obligationat that point is to grant the leave, and you grant the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC leave under these conditions. You must make sure you givethem at least weeks, you must make sure their job isprotected, you must make sure that you continue theirhealth insurance, and you must make sure that their otherbenefits are not diminished during the term of the leave. That's what Congress said all you have to do, employer, ingranting the leave.DOL has now crafted a regulation that says, oh,hold on, in addition to that you've got to specificallynotify them in advance you can do all of those things. You can give them leave for all of those purposes, weeks in our case, but the leave doesn't count. Now,that's clearly inconsistent with Congress' stated purposein providing a leave, what Congress said, what type ofleave would qualify for leave under this --QUESTION: Well, are you therefore saying thateven the notice provision is beyond the Secretary's power?MR. BENNETT: Your Honor, we have taken theposition that the statute --QUESTION: No, but I thought that's what youwere suggesting a moment ago. Is that what you meant tosuggest?notice?MR. BENNETT: The notice --QUESTION: The Secretary cannot even require a th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. BENNETT: Correct, Your Honor. I think thestatute has spoken to that. They talk about notice. Thatstatute provides that the employee is to notify theemployer of the need for leave. The statute goes on thatonce the employer receives the notice, the employer is toprovide the notice. Congress used the term, notify, inregard to employee, and did not use the term notify inregard to the employer in that particular case, so youcan't argue that Congress didn't consider notice. Theyclearly considered notice, and because they used notice inone particular portion of the statute and left it out inanother particular portion of the statute, there's apresumption, Your Honor, that Congress did thatpurposefully and intentionally.QUESTION: What if the employer's leave does notcomply with all of the conditions, all right, that arerequired by the act, and the employee goes off on thatleave, and there's no notification that the employee couldget more, could have the benefits continued or what-not. What happens in that situation? Does that leave count? It doesn't count as statutory leave, does it?MR. BENNETT: If the employee was given theleave, Your Honor, I believe that the leave counts. Thenthe issue becomes whether you've interfered with theirrights under the statute. Did you -- for instance, if you th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC didn't hold their job open, let's just say you gave themthe weeks --QUESTION: Okay.MR. BENNETT: -- but you didn't hold their jobQUESTION: Then the damage provision would cutopen --in.MR. BENNETT: Correct, Your Honor.QUESTION: --MR. BENNETT: The leave, it's not like, as ifthe leave doesn't count. They gave them the leave.QUESTION: The leave --MR. BENNETT: They gave them an additional weeks plus damages for not giving them their job back. They just have to provide them their job back and any lostpay for failure to do that. But this regulation --QUESTION: But here there was a requirement thatwent beyond what the Federal act requires. That was themonthly recertification by the doctor that she still hadthis disabling condition. For the FMLA you don't need tohave that monthly certificate, do you?MR. BENNETT: Your Honor, the regulationspromulgated by the Department of Labor provide that if anemployer -- excuse me. If a physician certifies that anemployee needs leave for more than weeks -- excuse me, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC for more than days, say this employee's going to needto be absent for days, or days, the employer can'trequire during that initial certification that theyrecertify unless they have some other reasons to thinkthey need to.But in this case, the doctor's certificationthat was provided to the employer was days, and thestatute says where the doctor doesn't provide for a longercertification, an employer can require that an employee ona -- provide certification on a reasonable basis no soonerthan every days, which --QUESTION: Well, wasn't the -day period chosenin this case because the employer's regulation says we'llonly do it for days at a time?MR. BENNETT: That is true, Your Honor. Thatis -- that was the company's policy to require thecertification every days.The legislative history again surrounding thisstatute shows that Congress clearly intended to limitleave to a total of weeks leave. The length of thisleave is the single most contentious issue Congress wasfaced in enacting the legislation. Indeed, there werethose in Congress who wanted a more expansive leave, andthere were those who wanted no federally protected leavewhatsoever. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: So you're saying it's a falsequestion as to whether, when the employee takes leave,he's taking FMLA leave or employer's leave, that therearen't two categories?MR. BENNETT: No, sir, that's correct,Justice --QUESTION: So that you don't have to give thenotice in order that the employee can know which of thetwo leaves he's taking. He just takes leave, and if theemployer doesn't give him all of the benefits that theFMLA requires on that leave, then there's a damagesprovision in the act.MR. BENNETT: That's correct, Your Honor, thereis no requirement in the statute that the employee notifythe employer that they're taking leave. The onlynotification -- the only -- the provision that DOL isbootstrapping their argument to, or their regulation to,is (b)(), which says if you're going to do paidleave, if you're going to provide the employee with paidleave, which is not the case here, this was unpaid leave,if you're going to provide the employee with paid leave --which is not the case here. This was unpaid leave.If you're going to provide the employee withpaid leave, Congress said, then you've got -- you canelect -- employer, you can to require them to use paid th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC leave, or the employee can use it if they don't havethe -- if they need to take paid leave as opposed tounpaid, they can use that, but at that point the employerprovides the leave. There's no provision that Congresssaid, if it's unpaid leave, you have to designate orsubstitute it for company-provided leave. Clearlyexplicit is that unpaid leave, as long as it meets theseconditions, is FMLA leave.QUESTION: Well, there's no provision, butneither is there any clear answer to the question, and Isuppose one of the arguments in favor of the Secretary'sregulation here is that it really was a gap-fillingregulation with respect to unpaid company leave. We'vegot to have a kind of default provision to know which --whether it counts or whether it doesn't count, and that'swhat the Secretary's reg addresses. What's your responseto that?MR. BENNETT: Your Honor, I believe the statuteitself creates a default rule. In that case --QUESTION: For un -- when the company's leave isunpaid?MR. BENNETT: For the unpaid. It creates --QUESTION: What is the default rule?MR. BENNETT: In (c) and (d)(), thestatute specifically talks about unpaid leave, leave shall th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC be unpaid. (d)() provides that if you're going torequire the employee to use paid leave and it's less thanthe weeks, then the additional amount between the paidleave and the statutory weeks is unpaid, up to a totalof weeks, so the statute says weeks is all we'rerequiring. If it's not paid, then the remainder of it isunpaid. Now then -- and section (d) creates an exceptionto that.QUESTION: No, but that -- as I understand it,that addresses the issue of the character of leave, ifthere isn't a full weeks provided, but as I understandit also there is no clear default provision when we have asituation in which there could be concurrent -- in whichthe leave could be seen either as unpaid company leave oras leave under the act. That question, is it under theact or is it under the company's plan, is answered in thecase of paid leave but it's not answered in the case ofunpaid leave. Am I missing something?MR. BENNETT: That's true, Your Honor. There'sno specific provision about that. The statute itselftalked about paid leave. It didn't mention thesubstitution of unpaid leave. Back again to the point Imade earlier --QUESTION: And their argument is that becausethe statute didn't talk about that, there has -- or it is th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC reasonable for the Secretary to come up with a rule thattells us whether it counts against the act or whether itdoesn't in the unpaid case.MR. BENNETT: Their assumption is that there's agap and that it's reasonable for them to step in.QUESTION: That's right.MR. BENNETT: Our position, Your Honor, is thatCongress specifically decided not to require that. Theytalk about in the statute a total of weeks of leave. The statute doesn't say a total of company -- or paidleave or unpaid.QUESTION: Well, Congress may not have requiredit, but at the end of the weeks there's still thequestion, did this count under the statute, or didn't itcount under the statute, and if the statute was silent, itwould seem to be that that would be a subject for theSecretary's regulation.MR. BENNETT: But Justice Souter, the statute isnot silent. The statute says, if you provide leave forone of these four conditions to one of your employees andyou provide these benefits to them, these basicprotections to them, then that leave is family medicalleave.QUESTION: You're saying all leave counts underthe statute. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. BENNETT: That's correct.QUESTION: All leave counts --MR. BENNETT: All leave.QUESTION: -- under the statute.MR. BENNETT: Paid or unpaid, Your Honor.QUESTION: And if you haven't provided inconnection with the leave everything that the statuterequires, such as a person can come back to the same joband so forth, there's a damages provision.MR. BENNETT: That's correct.QUESTION: Which is in the statute.MR. BENNETT: In the statute, that's correct.QUESTION: And on that assumption, what was thepurpose of having the special provisions with respect towhether it counts as statutory or company when the leaveis paid?MR. BENNETT: There are many employers out therewho -- such as my client who have more generous leavepolicies. Congress wasn't concerned about those when theyenacted this statute. It was those unenlightenedemployers, as Secretary Robert Reich called them in histestimony before the Congress on this issue, those whodidn't see the need to have leave of any sort, orinadequate leave, that this act was sought to benefit.Those employers who had paid leave said, okay, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC we provide unpaid, but what about our paid leave, canwe -- what do we do about that, do we have to provide themthe weeks of unpaid leave in addition to our paidleave, and Congress specifically addressed that in thestatute. If you have paid leave, and paid leave andvacation time and other personal time not necessarily fora serious health condition, Congress said, if you've gotthat, employer, if you're a generous employer that's goingto provide that, we will allow you to substitute thatleave for the unpaid leave we're requiring under thisstatute. You can require that, employer, that an employeetake their paid leave, and then you just make up thedifference.Again, Congress clearly thought weeks was weeks. They were looking to accommodate the legitimateinterests of the employer in this regard, not to burdenthe employer by requiring them to provide more than weeks of leave in this statute, but at the same timebalancing the reasonable needs of employees to have atleast -- at least weeks of leave for family and medicalconditions.Your Honor, I appreciate your time and attentionthis morning. Thank you.QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. Bennett.Mr. Sutter, you have minutes remaining. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF LUTHER O. SUTTERON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERMR. SUTTER: The company never gave the doctorthe option to allow Ms. Ragsdale to work intermittently. On the joint appendix at page and the company formonly asks whether the worker needs sick leave. It doesn'task, like the certification required by the Department ofLabor, whether or not the worker can work intermittently,and the form does not allow the doctor to certify morethan days.In fact, the actual policy at issue in thiscompany, at issue here allows the company doctor to make adetermination about whether or not Ms. Ragsdale was ableto qualify for this leave. U.S.C. (e) prohibitsthat specifically.The question before this Court --QUESTION: There's a damages provision for that,I assume.MR. SUTTER: Yes. Yes, Justice, but there isalso a provision for appropriate injunctive relief such asreinstatement and other -- and relief as the court maydeem appropriate, and I would submit to you that, as oneof the Justices recognized, this is not simply aboutmoney. This is a bundle of rights that you must knowabout before you can exercise them, and the company, as th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC counsel candidly admitted, would interfere with thoserights once Ms. Ragsdale asked for them and the companyrefused to give them.The question then becomes, then, how is Ms.Ragsdale, or did the Secretary act reasonably when itrequired the company to tell Ms. Ragsdale about her rightsto intermittent leave, her rights to extended leave morethan days, her right to be reviewed by a doctor thatdoes not have a regular relationship with the company, asrequired by (e), as well as her right to substitutepaid leave. Ms. Ragsdale in this case had a week of paidvacation.Now, whether or not Ms. Ragsdale was prejudicedis a post hoc analysis. The Secretary has reasonablydetermined that these determinations should be made on thefront end. All the employer has to do is make theelection. It's in the employer's power --QUESTION: Well, of course, you couldn't reallydo it on the front end here because she wasn't eligibleoriginally for FMLA leave. It had already happened.MR. SUTTER: Well, that's true, JusticeO'Connor, but the regulatory scheme provides that theemployer should have given her a date by which she wouldhave been eligible for FMLA leave. Under the collectivebargaining agreement this employer had to grant her this th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC leave. This is not a situation where it is out of thecompany's generosity. This agreement was extracted fromthe company by the union.QUESTION: Well, that's true of most agreements,isn't it?(Laughter.)MR. SUTTER: And that is why -- that is whyCongress required the FMLA --QUESTION: But it is somewhat unusual that aunion wouldn't advise the employees, its membership abouttheir statutory rights.MR. SUTTER: Of course it is, and it might beentirely reasonable for me to stand up here and substitutemy judgment for the Secretary's, but it is also equallyreasonable that the company be allowed the benefit ofmaking this determination, and to say that the requirementthat employees communicate is infirmed, we disagree,because you see, -- requires communication forplanning when intermittent leave is required. Communication is the sine qua non -- I'm sorry, we don'tspeak much like that in Arkansas, but --(Laughter.)MR. SUTTER: except where you all can understandit, but --(Laughter.) th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. SUTTER: -- information is the key toexercising these rights, and if you don't know that youhave them, you can't exercise them, and Justice Scalia,that is the interference here, and when there's aninterference --CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: Thank you, Mr. Sutter.MR. SUTTER: Thank you.CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: The case is submitted.(Whereupon, at : a.m., the case in theabove-entitled matter was submitted.) th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC 