 IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - XTAHOE-SIERRA PRESERVATION COUNCIL, INC., ET AL., Petitioners :::v. : No. -TAHOE REGIONAL PLANNING AGENCY, :ET AL. :- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - XWashington, D.C.Monday, January , The above-entitled matter came on for oralargument before the Supreme Court of the United States at: a.m.APPEARANCES:MICHAEL M. BERGER, ESQ., Santa Monica, California; onbehalf of the Petitioners.JOHN G. ROBERTS, JR., ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf ofthe Respondents.THEODORE B. OLSON, ESQ., Solicitor General, Department ofJustice, Washington, D.C.; on behalf of the UnitedStates, as amicus curiae, supporting the Respondents. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC C O N T E N T SORAL ARGUMENT OF MICHAEL M. BERGER, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioners ORAL ARGUMENT OFJOHN G. ROBERTS, JR., ESQ.On behalf of the Respondents ORAL ARGUMENT OFTHEODORE B. OLSON, ESQ.On behalf of the United States, as amicus curiae,supporting the Respondents REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OFMICHAEL M. BERGER, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioners PAGE th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC P R O C E E D I N G S(: a.m.)CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: We'll hear argumentnext in Number -, Tahoe-Sierra Preservation Councilv. The Tahoe Regional Planning Agency.Mr. Berger.ORAL ARGUMENT OF MICHAEL M. BERGERON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERSMR. BERGER: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court:There are three important things that should bekept in mind while we're addressing the issue thismorning. First, the Tahoe Regional Planning Agencytotally prohibited a select group of individual landownersscattered around Lake Tahoe from making any use whateverof their land. These prohibitions were never designed asthe kind of planning time-out touted by TRPA and itsamici. Rather, they were amendments --QUESTION: Well, what about a temporary orderthat says, gee, we're required by State law to develop aplan and it's going to take us a few months and, pendingthat, you can't develop? Now, does that invokeimmediately some per se taking rule?MR. BERGER: It does if it's a flat prohibitionof use, Your Honor, and if there is -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: A flat prohibition that says, whilewe're developing this plan, which we think won't takelong, you can't go ahead with your development?MR. BERGER: Justice O'Connor, I do believe thatif it is a total prohibition on use, and there is no usebeing made of the property at the time, that it's part ofthe public project to have this freeze on use, and it'sthe public that ought to be paying for that project, notthe individual landowners who are frozen out.QUESTION: Suppose that -- we'll have to playwith the facts a little bit, it's a hypothetical case, butthat within a month from now the World Trade Center isready to be constructed and New York says -- and the ownerwants to rebuild highrises for office only, and the citysays, wait a minute, this is so important to the wholecity, we need a year to think about it, a year in additionto the usual zoning process. A taking?MR. BERGER: I think if they forbid the entireuse of the property and don't allow any applications foruse to be made, don't allow the owner to do anything --QUESTION: Well, they could use it for a parkinglot.MR. BERGER: If there is some reasonable,economically viable, productive use that can be made ofthe property at the time, then I don't believe we have a th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC per se taking.QUESTION: Well, I guess my question -- and Iknow you had a more general introduction before Iinterrupted you, is the use of a moratorium a standardinstrument of zoning policy, or is it very rare? Icouldn't find anything in the briefs on this.MR. BERGER: It has, I believe, become much morerare these days. There's an awful lot more planning goingon. Agencies are doing a better job of planning, and theyfind the need for this kind of a total prohibition ondevelopment to be made.QUESTION: My impression is that most of thesemoratoriums, or moratoria, whatever they're called, wouldnot be total. I mean, if you're considering altering arural zoning scheme that now doesn't have any limit onnumber of residencies per acre, and you're thinking of,say, no more than one house on every acres, the only --and that's what you're thinking about, the only moratoriumyou would have to impose would be no more -- until we makeup our mind, no more than one house on every acres. Itwouldn't say, nobody does anything while we're sucking ourthumb on this question, right?MR. BERGER: That's correct, Justice Scalia --QUESTION: And --MR. BERGER: -- and I think that's the more th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC typical kind of moratorium, and the kind that most of theamici on the agency's side have been talking about.QUESTION: There was one Minnesota moratoriumthat was -- seemed somewhat like this that had beensustained by, I think the Minnesota appellate court.MR. BERGER: There was one, Your Honor, and Iwould submit that that court erred. It happens. Lowercourts do that sometimes.(Laughter.)MR. BERGER: And we believe that --QUESTION: So we notice.(Laughter.)MR. BERGER: And we believe that that simply isnot an appropriate precedent for this Court to follow.QUESTION: Why, why is it -- I guess this isgoing to be your basic point. Why is it the case -- let'stake not this moratorium, but let's take a moratorium thatlasts for a year, and after that time everyone believesthe board will allow certain kinds of development. Otherthings being equal, that year of no use would probablyhave reduced the value of the land by , percent. Now,so why, since that's the effect of the moratorium I'mimagining, should the public have to give compensation forthat small diminution in value?MR. BERGER: Because it's not the diminution in th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC value we're talking about here, Your Honor. It's thetotal elimination of the ability to make use of theproperty, and in all of this Court's cases you have talkedabout denial of economically productive use of land, andwhat we're doing here, and what you're talking about inyour hypothetical, Justice Breyer, is taking away theright to use that land.It's as if I took away your car for a year and Iparked it in the garage and I kept good care of it, and Ireturned it to you at the end of the year with nodiminution in value whatsoever, or perhaps the percentthat Your Honor hypothesized. You still would have beenwithout the use of that car for a year, and I think thatyou would be entitled to compensation for the fact that Ideprived you of the use of that car.QUESTION: Well, certainly if the respondenthere had simply said, we're going to need your propertyfor years, and so we're going to take a leaseholdinterest for years, the respondent would have had tocompensate for that.MR. BERGER: Chief Justice, I couldn't agreewith that more, and I believe that that is in fact whatwe're dealing with here.QUESTION: No, but you're -- it seems to meyou're not dealing with that here, because in that th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC hypothetical the person, the third party in fact takes theproperty in the sense of using it for that party's ownbenefit. Here, no one, the Tahoe Regional PlanningAuthority isn't using the property for its benefit. It'ssaying that during this period of time there are somethings that you can't do.MR. BERGER: That's true, Justice Souter, butfrankly I don't see the difference between them, becausethe Government --QUESTION: Well, one difference is that theperson taking in the one hypothetical gets a considerablepersonal value, i.e., the use of a car, or the use ofproperty for a period of time. There's no such fact inevidence here.MR. BERGER: Absolutely true, but this Court'sjurisprudence has always examined cases like this from theimpact on the property owner, not from what the Governmentgains by the taking. Justice Holmes said that in theBoston Chamber of Commerce case a century ago.QUESTION: Isn't your argument, and wasn't youranswer to Justice Breyer's question in effect to invokethe kind of standard language which has come out of theLucas case? In other words, it is preventing all use ofthe property, or all economically productive use of theproperty, and yet Lucas garaged that phrase in the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC circumstance in which the denial of economic use wasassumed to be permanent.Here, we're dealing with a situation -- JusticeBreyer's question dealt with a situation in which thedeprivation is assumed to be temporary, so that it doesmake sense in his hypothetical to say, well, it reducesthe value of the property during the interim period maybeby percent. That is a very different economic factfrom an indefinite, permanent deprivation which wouldreduce the economic value of the property down tosomething close to zero, and doesn't that distinction haveto be recognized, and isn't that the reason why the Lucasformula simply cannot be used uncritically in thiscircumstance?MR. BERGER: Justice Souter, I believe that thatdistinction gets recognized at the valuation phase, not atthe liability phase. In other words, taking for a smallperiod of time, or for less than the full life of theproperty, would be compensated less than taking the fullfee interest.QUESTION: Yes, but what you're really sayingis, if the -- I think, that if in Justice Breyer'shypothetical there is a diminution in the value for thisperiod of percent, that you've got to compensate forthe full percent, and it seems to me that our cases are th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC pretty clear in saying, that's not how you measure thecompensation obligation. That's the -- that's an exampleof taking, you know, the one stick out of the bundle andsaying because you can't use that one, you've got tocompensate percent for that one, but I think our casesrule that out, don't they?MR. BERGER: Actually, your cases in quite anumber of different circumstances say that if you do takeone important stick out of the bundle, you may well havetaken the property --QUESTION: Permanently. Permanently.MR. BERGER: Well, except in First English, YourHonor, where this Court expressly said, and examined allthe cases, that temporary takings are constitutionally nodifferent than permanent takings.QUESTION: Well, except that that gets to theargument that the other side makes throughout here, thatthe assumption of that statement was that we had a takingin the first place, whereas the issue in this case iswhether we do have a taking.MR. BERGER: Well, that's correct, and whatwe're talking about here is a deprivation of all use. That's why we have a pretty clean case for the Court todeal with here.QUESTION: It's a deprivation of all use if you th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC fit it into Lucas.Lucas was a case that did not involve apermanent taking, so that it seems to me your firstargument has got to be not that the Lucas formula canapply here, but that the Lucas formula should apply hereas opposed to this Penn Central formula. You've got to dothat in order to get into First English.MR. BERGER: I agree with that completely, but Ithink that what we're dealing with, if you examine thefacts of the case, is that from the time that theseordinances were enacted in until whatever end pointyou want to look at, there was a total deprivation of use.QUESTION: Well, Mr. Berger, you may well havebeen able to prevail under the Penn Central approach, Iassume, viewed in its entirety over this period of time,but that was waived. Am I correct in that?MR. BERGER: We did not present a Penn Centralcase, that's correct.QUESTION: And all you want is this pure andsimple per se taking, as applied to, as it comes to us,what is it, a -year period?MR. BERGER: Well, there was this -year periodchopped out at the beginning of the time.QUESTION: And that's what we're focused on hereas the case actually comes to us? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. BERGER: That appears to be what the Courtis interested in, as the Court reframed the question.QUESTION: May I ask you this question, Mr.Berger? Just looking at temporary takings, and justlooking at the liability stage as opposed to the valuationstage, is there a distinction in your view between aregulatory taking and a physical taking?MR. BERGER: I don't believe so, JusticeStevens. I think that this Court did deal with that inthe First English case, and it explained that physicaltakings and regulatory takings are judged by the sameconstitutional standards.QUESTION: So that in your view -- of course,the physical taking, even for minutes, would be ataking. There's no doubt about that. But your view is,even if the regulation prohibits all use of a piece ofproperty, an automobile, whatever it may be, for or minutes, there is a taking. The damages may beinfinitesimal, but there's always -- past the liabilitystage.use --MR. BERGER: If there is a total prohibition ofQUESTION: For minutes.MR. BERGER: -- there is liability. Now --QUESTION: So -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: Mr. Berger, can you reconcile thedifferent approach that this Court has said goes forspatial separation, like the air space in Penn Central,and time segregation? It seems to me that if the one --if Penn Central is the regime for splitting off the airrights, it should also be the regime for splitting off adiscrete period of time.MR. BERGER: Your Honor, this Court and othercourts have always dealt with the time value of property,if I may, differently than they have in these spatialterms. The fact is, leasehold interests, future interestshave always been recognized as independent items ofproperty that are independently protected by theConstitution.If you had a piece of property that had alandlord and a tenant and a lender and some remainderperson --QUESTION: But these are all physical takings.MR. BERGER: -- with all interests, and it wascondemned, all of them would be entitled to compensation.QUESTION: But that's --QUESTION: These are all physical takings cases.MR. BERGER: And this Court has said in FirstEnglish that there is no difference constitutionally,Justice Stevens, between the physical takings and the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC regulatory takings.QUESTION: Suppose I --QUESTION: What do you do about the fact thatthere is a regulatory taking of sorts whenever you have apermit system, let's say the normal zoning regime in whichyou cannot construct any building on your acreage withoutfirst applying and getting the approval of the zoningagency?MR. BERGER: Justice Scalia --QUESTION: During that period, there's been atotal taking. You cannot do anything with that propertyuntil you get the building approved.MR. BERGER: Clearly you cannot do anythinguntil you've gotten the property approved, but it seems tome that there is a fundamental difference between alandowner working through a system whose end product is,at least theoretically and probably very likely, theissuance of a permit to go ahead and develop somethingthat is economically productive on that land as opposed tobeing stuck in a system where you're forbidden --QUESTION: But that would have been during thatinterval of time it meets your test. Nothing can be doneuntil the permit issues, so a fortiori, under your theory,compensation due.MR. BERGER: I don't believe so, Justice th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC O'Connor, because --QUESTION: Well, that's what it sounds like.Now, what about your basic zoning law? I'mgoing to, as a city, limit the use of this property to onehouse per acre. You can't have unlimited apartments orcommercial property owner. Now, for the enactment ofthat, is there a taking immediately?MR. BERGER: No, Your Honor.QUESTION: Well, you're permanently deprived ofthe use of it for commercial purposes.MR. BERGER: Yes, Your Honor, but you are nottotally deprived of the use of it.QUESTION: But can we get back to the basicquestion that Justice Scalia asked, and Justice O'Connorasked it as well. I want your answer. Why is it that adelay for purposes of ordinary zoning, which, let'sassume, prohibits you from any use of the property, is nota taking?MR. BERGER: Because you are there in a processworking toward the actual development of the process, ofthe property, pardon me, in contrast to being in asituation like these people are, where there is no processfor development. There is instead the desire --QUESTION: Let's assume that the Tahoe RegionalPlanning Agency thought, in good faith, that there would th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC be some development allowed, but they needed a year tothink about it. My -- that's the same as the World TradeCenter hypothetical. We know something very valuable isgoing to be built, but you say it's a taking, and I don'tunderstand the difference between that and the regularzoning procedure.MR. BERGER: The difference is that in thesecond situation there is a conscious and totalprohibition on use, and that's the purpose of theregulation, is to prohibit the use. In the formersituation, where you're applying for a permit, the purposeof the regulation is not to prohibit use but, in fact, toenable use.QUESTION: Well then, it seems to me you have tochange your answer about the World Trade Centerhypothetical, where you say there's going to be a veryvaluable use, we just don't know what it is, but we need ayear to think about it, in addition to the normal -- andyou told me that was taking, but now your rationale seemsto me to back away from that.MR. BERGER: If they are in a process wherethere will be development at the end, then I believe thatthere is not an automatic per se taking, but it seems tome that what we're dealing with, if we've got a total useprohibition, we do have a taking. It's a question of th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC time.QUESTION: But Mr. Berger, your -- it seems tome your deciding whether the temporary taking is --whether the temporary interference is a taking or notdepends on what's going to happen after the temporaryperiod expires, because in one situation you think, well,they know they're going to get something valuable out ofit, in the other they don't, but that means that the testfor the temporary period turns entirely on an evaluationof the future.MR. BERGER: Well, if I made it sound that way,Justice Stevens, I apologize. I -- what I'm saying isthat you have two different schemes set up. One is aprocess leading toward development. The other is aprocess of total blockage, and where the intent of theGovernment is simply to block the use of property. We'renot looking at the future --QUESTION: Well, you're not suggesting they'redoing it just for the sole purpose of blocking the use. Don't they have some ultimate goal in sight here?MR. BERGER: Sometimes they may. Sometimes theydon't.QUESTION: But your -- you rest on thehypothesis that they are just interested in a totalblockage for a temporary period of time, and they don't th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC care what happens later.MR. BERGER: But that is the fact that we'redealing with. We're dealing with --QUESTION: They don't have any interest inprotecting the lake?MR. BERGER: We have no question about theirability to protect the lake. The question is how they dothat, and what they've decided to do in order to protectthe lake is to prohibit these people from making any useof their land.QUESTION: But it seems to me in effect -- maybethis is a variant on Justice Stevens' question -- thatyou're saying, what's really wrong here is that this isnot done in good faith, that this is not done, let's say,in the case of the period of time necessary to getpermits, with an actual development in mind. This iscalled a moratorium, but they mean something more thanjust moratorium, they just mean stop, period, and itsounds to me as though you're making it turn on whetherit's good faith or bad faith.MR. BERGER: Oh, I don't think it needs to. Ithink, in fact, in this case, when they put thismoratorium in the context not of -- they don't even callit a moratorium. They did this as amendments to theirWater Quality Act. What they said was, these properties th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC need to be kept frozen in order to protect the clarity ofLake Tahoe.QUESTION: And your argument in effect contraststhat with an existing permit system whereby if you complywith certain requirements you will ultimately end up witha permit, the purpose of which is to make sure you docomply with the requirements.MR. BERGER: Exactly, Chief Justice.QUESTION: But you still have -- I mean, in theone case the regulating agency has said, you can't doanything with your land while we're thinking about thescheme we're going to adopt, and in the other case theagency has said, just as categorically, you can't doanything with your land while we consider yourapplication. In both cases they're, for a laterregulatory purpose they're both saying, you can't doanything with your land.MR. BERGER: Justice Scalia, in a sense that iscertainly true, but in the case of the processing of apermit application, we know that there is permitted use. It's there. It's in the books.QUESTION: Not during the pendency. Not whilethe application is pending.MR. BERGER: The regulations of the agency saythat for this property there is permitted use. The th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC question is how you make that use, and under whatconditions and circumstances, not whether there will beuse at all, where you have in the second situation a totalprohibition on use and we don't know what's going tohappen at the end of that total prohibition on use.The key to it may be this case itself, where thelight at the end of the tunnel that they keep touting asthe saving grace of this kind of a regulatory regimeturned out to be no light at all. There was a completecontinuation of the use prohibition when this temporaryso-called period ended.QUESTION: Well, under your theory it would seemthat -- suppose that a building catches fire and issubstantially destroyed by fire, and the fire departmentcomes, and the police department, and they block it offfor a period of time, no use while this is investigated,none, property owner can do nothing, can't enter it,you're out of there. I guess the city or the governingjurisdiction would have to pay the property owner.MR. BERGER: I don't think at that point, YourHonor, that that would be a taking.QUESTION: But it fits squarely within yourargument.MR. BERGER: No, I think that in that case, YourHonor, you would at least be entitled to perhaps some th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC nuisance examination. You've got a wrecked building thatis a hazard, and at least the Government would have theability to order the property cleaned up before anythingelse could be done with it, and I think in thosecircumstances --QUESTION: But that seems to make the questionwhether there's a taking turn on the nature of the motiveof the -- underlying the regulation or the prohibition,and I thought your position was, regardless of the goodfaith and the great public interest in doing it, the Statehas to pay when it does this.MR. BERGER: Your Honor, I think we all have tolive with what this Court called the nuisance exceptionwhen it decided the Lucas case, and that there are somethings that the Government can do that prohibit all usethat are not compensatory.QUESTION: Are you satisfied with the standardthat says, every Government regulation is a candidate fora taking, just as every speech act is a First Amendmentcandidate, but it's actually a taking in this area onlywhen the impact of the Government regulation is not partof a reasonable process looking towards a reasonable formof regulated development?MR. BERGER: I think I could accept that,Justice Breyer. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: Well, if that's so, they're going tosay they win, because they're going to say, of course,this was an effort, reasonably, to regulate Lake Tahoeover a period of time. It's very complicated, it didn'tlast -- it lasted a long time, but no more than necessary.MR. BERGER: Oh, I would disagree with thatcharacterization. This was not an effort to regulate LakeTahoe. This was an effort to prevent the use of theseproperties. Certainly they --QUESTION: But that's a reasonablenesscalculation, and that's the Penn Central aspect ratherthan the more categorical approach that you're urging uponus, I should think.MR. BERGER: Your Honor, if they had come upwith a nuanced, subtle regulation that had something to itother than the meat ax approach that the agency took inthis case, I think you would have a Penn Central-typeanalysis, but what we've got in this case is not anythingsubtle at all. We've got a complete, easy, quickprohibition, and --QUESTION: What is the status today? What isit, years later?MR. BERGER: We're years later.QUESTION: What's the status today of theproperties affected by this suit? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. BERGER: The clients that I represent arestill, for the most part, unable to do anything. There isthe new plan put in in , which this Court looked at inthe Suitum case, and some of the people, those in theposition of Mrs. Suitum, in the stream environment zones,are still totally prohibited from using their land. Mostof the people are still totally prohibited from usingtheir land.A large number of them have sold their land toGovernment agencies that were buying them up at bargainbasement prices, at nothing approaching what would, anappraiser would call fair market value, but the value ofland that couldn't be developed, in order to mitigatetheir losses, and as the court approved in the Del MonteDunes case, what they'd like to do is to make themselveswhole.QUESTION: Well, is it your position that all ofthe properties involved in this petition are, today, stilltotally deprived of any use whatever?MR. BERGER: I believe, Justice O'Connor, theremay be a handful of them that under the plan, and theregulations that came under that in , were finallyreleased and allowed to do something, but it's only asmall number, and for the most part these properties arestill unused and unusable. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: Is it your position that theapplication of the Penn Central approach would not resultin appropriate compensation determinations at the end ofthe day?MR. BERGER: I don't know that, Your Honor. Asa pragmatic matter, doing a Penn Central approach on acase that involves hundreds and hundreds of individualproperties would have been a nightmarish litigation thatonly the wealthiest of landowners would be able to affordand, particularly in light of the clear prohibition of usethat they decided that they needed, we thought that itmade more sense to do a Lucas-type approach than a PennCentral approach in this case.QUESTION: May I just ask this one question? With regard to those who have subsequently been permittedto develop their land, it's your view that you'renevertheless entitled to a takings compensation for theperiod which the moratorium was in effect?MR. BERGER: Yes --QUESTION: Yes.MR. BERGER: -- Justice Stevens, that's true.I'd like to reserve the rest of my time, Mr.Chief Justice, if I may.QUESTION: Very well, Mr. Berger.Mr. Roberts. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ORAL ARGUMENT OF JOHN G. ROBERTS, JR.ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTSMR. ROBERTS: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice, andmay it please the Court:Petitioners' only takings claim before the courtof appeals and his only -- their only takings claim beforethis Court is a facial per se claim. That means thattheir contention is that the mere enactment of thetemporary moratorium in this case effected a taking withrespect to every parcel to which it applied -- that's thefacial aspect -- without any consideration of the reasonsfor the moratorium. That's the per se aspect. And whatis more, that bold claim is limited at this point to thetemporary moratorium in effect from August ' until April.QUESTION: Mr. Roberts, you described it as abold claim. Supposing it had gone on for years.MR. ROBERTS: In --QUESTION: Would it be still bold?MR. ROBERTS: On the facial aspect I think so,Your Honor. I think doing the Penn Central analysis andnot the Lucas analysis, so long as it's not a permanentdeprivation abuse.Now, certainly a -year claim would have a muchharder row to hoe against a takings challenge, but I would th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC like to know the impact on the property's value, why the years was necessary, if it was, the sorts of thingsthat are factored under Penn Central.QUESTION: Well, you could do a Penn Central --you could have done Penn Central in Lucas. I mean, PennCentral is wonderful. We could apply it to everything,but as Mr. Berger pointed out, that's a terriblycomplicated analysis, enormously expensive for propertyowners to have to go through, which is why you have caseslike Lucas.MR. ROBERTS: This Court said Lucas applied onlyin the rare circumstance, a total ban on economicreproductive use.QUESTION: Suppose I take a -year leasehold,right. The Government comes in and says, we're takingthis property for years, not a permanent taking, just a-year taking.MR. ROBERTS: That --QUESTION: We do a Penn Central analysis ofthat?MR. ROBERTS: Oh, no. If the Governmentcondemns a leasehold, that's a taking, and compensation isdue.QUESTION: All right, suppose in this case thatone of these barred owners leased the property to someone th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC who's going to put a mobile home on it for a year, themoratorium comes in effect, assume the mobile home can'tbe -- is that a taking of the leasehold, of thelessee's --MR. ROBERTS: No.QUESTION: -- interest?MR. ROBERTS: No. You don't sever up theproperty interest and -- so that it corresponds to theextent of the regulation and then say --QUESTION: You're taking from the lessee. That's all he's got.MR. ROBERTS: Well, the right at issue here isthe right to build residences, to develop the property.QUESTION: No. My hypothetical is that itapplies to a mobile home and the guy who leases for -- thelot for a year, and then TRPA says you can't put themobile home on there for a year. They take this entireleasehold. Compensable?MR. ROBERTS: It would first of all be under thePenn Central analysis, and the economic impact --QUESTION: Why, if it's a total taking?QUESTION: General Motors certainly didn't doPenn Central.MR. ROBERTS: No, but the other -- thedistinction is the one this Court talked about in Loretto, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC between -- you mentioned the World War II condemnationcases. The Pee Wee Coal case, the Government came in andoccupied the coal mine to prevent a strike. That was ataking. In Central Eureka they said, you cannot use thegold mine, and this Court said, that's different, that'snot a taking.That's the type of distinction that we'retalking about here between physical appropriation or,extended to Lucas, a ban on total economic use, and thetemporary regulation that's at issue here. Because theregulation is temporary, the land retains economic value.QUESTION: I'm still not sure of your answer. Your answer is that in my hypothetical about the -yearlease that's taken from the lessee, it has to be a PennCentral analysis because?MR. ROBERTS: Because you're starting out with aproperty -- presumably the regulation applies to theproperty generally, and it just so happens that this oneparcel has been severed out into a leasehold, and in doingthat, that is a question that has to be addressed beforeyou get to the analysis, should you sever out the affectedproperty interest to a leasehold.QUESTION: But you could have made that sameargument in General Motors, and I think the Governmentdid, that you shouldn't just treat it as a leasehold, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC you've got to value the whole property. The court saysno, there was a leasehold in effect, that's what theGovernment took, that's what the Government has to payfor.MR. ROBERTS: But if -- if this Court is -- inits past takings cases, when it's been presented with aregulation that applies to a discrete property interest,it hasn't said, well, let's redefine the effectiveproperty interests to that. It didn't do it in PennCentral, it didn't do it in Keystone Bituminous, and itdidn't do it in the construction laborers case.The way the property was held by the petitionersin this case is fee simple. This regulation applied tofee simple property. It did not affect the value anywherenear the extent that the regulation in Lucas did.QUESTION: No, but just to make it clear, in myhypothetical -- I know it didn't happen, but in myhypothetical, no recovery because?MR. ROBERTS: No, I'm not sure it's no recovery,but I am sure that it's still evaluated under PennCentral, because --QUESTION: But Mr. Roberts, if you evaluate itunder Penn Central, would it be legitimate to evaluate itthis way. I've assumed it would be, but maybe I'm wrong. Assume that the leasehold is not physically taken, so that th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC the Government doesn't substitute itself for the trailerowner and use the property. It's strictly a prohibitionof use. I assumed that under Penn Central the lesseewould have his claim against the lessor because the lessorwas not delivering. The lessor would not have a claim fora permanent deprivation here because there, with respectto the lessor there would only be the temporary taking.MR. ROBERTS: Well --QUESTION: So that the lessee would probablycome out okay against a different party. The lessor wouldbe in the same position that the lessor would be in ifthere had never been a lease. Is that the way it wouldwork?MR. ROBERTS: Well, presumably the impact ofregulation would be something that would be addressed inthe lease agreement itself.QUESTION: Yes.MR. ROBERTS: I mean, if they were leasing it tobuild a mobile home and it turns out they can't, who bearsthe responsibility for that, again a matter between thelessor and the lessee.The important point is that the, what thepetitioners are arguing for is an extension of the Lucasrule which applied in a, as the Court said, the rarecircumstance in which all economic use is prohibited, and th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC the Court emphasized in Lucas that that had theconsequence of rendering the property valueless. This ishow the Court phrased the question presented in Lucas,whether the act's dramatic effect on the economic value ofLucas' lot accomplished a taking.Well, here, there is no dramatic effect on theeconomic value of the affected lots, because we're talkingabout temporary regulation for a limited time.QUESTION: Well, but does --QUESTION: Well, in light of what's happened, weknow it's been years, and presumably many of theseproperties will never be allowed to be developed. Isthere no end in sight? Can we not look at that as ataking?MR. ROBERTS: First, Your Honor, myunderstanding of the record is quite different from mybrother's. If you look at the pretrial order, Exhibit A,pretrial order filed July , , it describes thesituations with respect to each of the properties. Mostof them have been sold long ago. Of those that are notsold, two-thirds have a score that makes them buildableunder the ' plan, so two-thirds of the petitioners whostill own property can build on those lots according tothe record in this case, and that is just petitioners'allegations. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: When you say sold, do you mean at thebargain price that Mr. Berger referred to, sold to --MR. ROBERTS: Sold typically to the Governmentbuy-out agencies, I wouldn't say at a bargain price.QUESTION: Sold to the Government agencies whowill do with it just exactly what is achieved by theGovernment's not taking position of it, that is, nothing. I find this distinction between whether the Governmenttakes possession of the land versus whether the Governmentdoesn't take possession of the land quite unrealistic --MR. ROBERTS: Well --QUESTION: -- where you're talking about aGovernment that wants to assure that the land lies fallow. The Government achieves entirely what it wants by simplysaying, nobody shall do anything with the land. That --why should the Government condemn the land? It doesn'thave to.MR. ROBERTS: That's not, of course, what we'retalking about here. What we're talking about here is atime-out for a limited period while the agency carries outits responsibility to determine what can be done with theland.QUESTION: All right, so how does he prove that? What about the one-third who could never build?MR. ROBERTS: Well -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: What happens to them? What is yourview of the correct thing he should have done? Is aperson who never is allowed to build, and never can usethe property at all, simply out of luck, if what they sayis we're having a -year, a -year procedure of -yearmoratoriums, at a time or something like that? How isit supposed to work, in your opinion?MR. ROBERTS: Well, the first thing I'd say is,you bring an as-applied claim and not a facial claim. Thefacial claim is the mere enactment of this temporarymoratorium effective taking. Well then, don't talk to meabout what happened years later, if the mere enactmentof the temporary moratorium is your complaint. That's adifferent case, and he brought that case, and it wasthrown out because it was too late.There were challenges brought to the ' plan,there were challenges brought to the ' plan. Thosechallenges failed, and now the effort is to link thosechallenges up to what's left, the little tail on the dogof this temporary moratorium that started the process.QUESTION: How does an as-applied challenge go? What if you make an as-applied challenge. What would youhave to prove? Would you have to prove that anyintelligent agency could make up its mind and, you know,either fish or cut bait within a year? Suppose -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. ROBERTS: If the as-applied challenge is tothe temporary moratorium?QUESTION: Yes.MR. ROBERTS: Well, you go through the PennCentral factors, and if it's taking too long, that'scertainly something pertinent on the character of theGovernment action. That's what other courts have lookedto.QUESTION: No, no, but it goes beyond PennCentral if you're no -- if it is no longer an honestmoratorium to decide what you're going to do with theland, then you're out of Penn Central. Then it's just ataking. You're kidding us. You only need a year todecide what you want to do. You've imposed a moratoriumfor years. Why should I have to go through PennCentral? Four of those years is just prohibiting me fromusing my land with no other governmental purpose in mindexcept the prohibition.MR. ROBERTS: And that's one of those thingsthat they would have to show. Here, of course, thedistrict court found that the planning effort wasundertaken as speedily as possible.QUESTION: But you acknowledge that if, in anas-applied challenge, there's a showing that the agencydoes not need years or years or whatever, that the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC thing could reasonably have been done in year,everything beyond the year is then a taking?MR. ROBERTS: No. You have to go through theother factors. This is not a per se analysis.QUESTION: Why?MR. ROBERTS: The other factors include theimpact on the property. You're claiming a taking. Whatwas the effect on your property?QUESTION: Well, what if -- let's take ahypothesis where the moratorium is years. Now, youstill go through this thing that you're talking about? Itcannot be long enough ever to be a per se taking?MR. ROBERTS: Well, even the court of appealsrecognized that the moratorium is long enough so that thepresent value of the uses that might be allowed is deminimis, then perhaps the categorical rule would apply,and years seems like it's going to be too long for theGovernment to figure out and carry out itsresponsibilities and planning, but I wouldn't say that wetry to find a point in time at which suddenly we shiftfrom the accepted Penn Central analysis to the Lucas perse analysis.QUESTION: Well, but yet you agree that shifthas to take place somewhere along the continuum of time.MR. ROBERTS: I guess what I'm saying is at some th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC point calling something a temporary moratorium is a misuseof the label. If it's years, that's too long.Now, the best that Justice Holmes could do wassay that when it goes too far it becomes a taking, and Imay not be able to do much better, but the Penn Centralfactors allow consideration of things like, what is theneed for it? The need may not be sufficiently compellingto justify a moratorium of years, or the need may besufficiently compelling to justify a longer moratorium. What was the impact on your -- the property?Keep in mind, the petitioners submitted noevidence of impact on value. We have no idea from therecord what the impact of the temporary moratorium was,other than the evidence that we submitted which shows thatproperties were sold for significant amounts of valueduring the period of the temporary moratorium, which makessense.A temporary ban on development doesn't renderproperty valueless. If you have two parcels of property,one subject to a permanent ban on use, and the othersubject to a temporary ban, it is true, as some of theamici say, the permanent ban could be made temporary andthe temporary ban could be made permanent, but you're notgoing to pay the same price for both of those parcels ofproperty. The one that's subject to the temporary ban is th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC going to have a higher market value, reflecting the factthat future uses are available, or will be available ornot, depending on the plan that's ultimately adopted.QUESTION: I suppose that depends on how muchany prospective buyer would believe that the temporary banis really temporary, or how much they believe that it'sgoing to be strung out and extended, and if worst comes toworse, and the Government can't pick it up at bargainprices it will pay compensation to get rid of the land. I --MR. ROBERTS: And that's like the petitioners'effort to link their lost challenges to the permanent landuse plan to their challenge to the temporary moratorium. QUESTION: Mr. --MR. ROBERTS: The district court --QUESTION: Excuse me. Had you finished youranswer?MR. ROBERTS: I was just going to say that thedistrict court in this case specifically found that theagency acted in good faith throughout, so the idea thatthe temporary moratorium to allow planning to take placewas some kind of a sham for a permanent --QUESTION: Well, but it also found there was atotal deprivation of use for X amount of time.MR. ROBERTS: Only looked at from that period. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Only looked at for the -month period, and our submissionis that that's the improper way to carve up the propertyinterest and say, oh, it's a total taking, because we'regoing to only look at the property that was taken.QUESTION: Mr. Roberts, in answer to one ofJustice O'Connor's questions about a hypothetical firedamage case Mr. Berger referred to the nuisance exceptionas possibly taking the case out of the whole takings area.At what point in what procedure would the possibleavailability of the nuisance defense arise or beconsidered with respect to polluting Lake Tahoe?MR. ROBERTS: Well, we raised the claim beforethe court of appeals that one reason there was no taking,even if Lucas applied, was because of the nuisance, etcetera. The Court didn't find it necessary to reach thatissue.QUESTION: I see.QUESTION: And so the district court said therewasn't -- that a nuisance hadn't been made out. Thedistrict court said that, didn't it?MR. ROBERTS: That's right, and we appealedthat, and the court of appeals didn't find --QUESTION: And what was your argument to thecourt of appeals, that this was a nuisance exception?MR. ROBERTS: That given the impact on the lake th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC of development, that it fell within the California andNevada nuisance requirements.QUESTION: That it all should be a park.MR. ROBERTS: Not that it should all be a park,but that further development would threaten the seriousand, in fact, irreparable harm to the lake. That's thebasis for the Government action in this case that thepetitioners have never challenged.But I want to emphasize in concluding that it'simportant to remember that the issue is not whether atotal ban on use for this period effects a taking. Theissue is whether a temporary moratorium from August of 'to April of ' for the purpose of carrying out theresponsibility of undertaking planning with respect tothese lots is on its face with respect to every lot thatit applied to a per se taking without regard to thereason.QUESTION: Phrased that way, it's quite clearlyin your favor, but I think they're seeing this as a groupof landowners thinking from the beginning, whatever thejustification for this, and the justification isexcellent, saving Lake Tahoe, it's going to end up that wewon't be able to use our land for anything, and we've beenable to tell you that from day one, so we brought a caseright off the bat that we knew that was going to happen, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC and then year after year went by when people told us,maybe you'll be able to build, maybe you won't, whichreally wasn't so, we knew we wouldn't, and then it endedup that we couldn't, all right.Now, what are we supposed to say to them? Aren't they supposed to have some remedy at law? Andthat's I think why he wanted to hear all his questions,not just one, and there is that lurking in this case, andI'm not totally sure how to deal with it.MR. ROBERTS: Well, first of all they waiteduntil the ' plan took effect to file their lawsuit. That suggests to me the gripe was with the permanent ban,not so much the temporary moratorium.Second of all, the supposition in your questionmakes this not a facial challenge. In other words, it'snot the mere enactment. It's because we know what'sreally going on here. That's an as-applied challenge,that's not a facial challenge, so the landowners in yourcase said, as, in fact, some have, bring an as-appliedchallenge saying, as applied to me this is a taking.QUESTION: So do you agree that a temporarymoratorium that ripens into a permanent ban is a taking?I mean, you know, let's assume that I sold theproperty during the temporary moratorium which laterripens into a total ban, and I claim that I should have th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC been compensated for those years that I owned theproperty without any ability to do -- does that constitutea taking?MR. ROBERTS: I think the period in which theagency's justification is, we need a time-out to undertakeplanning so that we're not locking the barn door after thehorse escapes, should be evaluated separately from theperiod in which the agency says, this is the land useplan, and if you've got a gripe with us you can challengethat. Those are two separate periods. The character ofthe Government action is different in those two periods.QUESTION: Okay, let's assume that they areanalyzed separately, and it is found that for the periodJustice Scalia is talking about the Government really wasnot acting in good faith. Its plan, its intent right fromthat moment on, from the first day on, was to ban alldevelopment whatsoever. In that case, does he have aclaim for a complete taking during the -year period?MR. ROBERTS: Oh, certainly, yes.QUESTION: Okay.MR. ROBERTS: Yes. I don't think it's a facialclaim, because it depends on more than lookingspecifically at the face of the ordinance.QUESTION: So it's a question basically of goodfaith and intent -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. ROBERTS: And here the --QUESTION: -- and understanding what they'redoing.MR. ROBERTS: The district court at petitionappendix at page said the agency acted in complete goodfaith, and completed its responsibilities as quickly ascould be expected.Thank you, Your Honor.QUESTION: If the court of appeals opinion isjust simply affirmed just as is, weren't we wasting ourtime in First English?MR. ROBERTS: Oh, no. First English didn'taddress the question of when a temporary regulation canbecome a taking. It said that if you have a temporarytaking, and it assumed arguendo that there was a takingfor a temporary period, compensation is required, and wedon't dispute that at all.QUESTION: Yes, but as -- assume the court ofappeals opinion is the law. First English wasn't ataking. That's your whole point.MR. ROBERTS: Well, that's what the CaliforniaState courts determined on remand when they were addressedwith the question.QUESTION: No, no, just talk about Federal law. You're saying that First English could not have been a th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC taking, so we were just waiting our time up here.MR. ROBERTS: Oh, no, no, not at all. FirstEnglish could have been a taking. It would have requiredan evaluation under, again, Penn Central, not Lucas, todetermine whether the regulation at issue there, both thetemporary and permanent, and both were at issue atdifferent points in First English, constituted a taking.But once you assume that that was a taking, andyou assume the results of that analysis, then it is ataking. Compensation is required.QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. Roberts.MR. ROBERTS: Thank you, Your Honor.QUESTION: General Olson, we'll hear from you.ORAL ARGUMENT OF THEODORE B. OLSONFOR THE UNITED STATES, AS AMICUS CURIAE,SUPPORTING THE RESPONDENTSGENERAL OLSON: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court:The colloquy so far today seems to me toillustrate the wisdom of Justice O'Connor's comment in herconcurring opinion in the Palazzolo case last June thatthe Court should avoid per se rules in the area ofregulatory taking.Petitioners knew per se rule of takingsjurisprudence, taken to its logical end, would make every th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC freeze in the status quo, however brief, during apermitting, planning, or rezoning process equivalent to acondemnation, to use their words --QUESTION: I don't understand it that way,General Olson. I thought Mr. Berger separated out, or atleast certainly tried to separate out the normal zoningprocess where you're working towards a permit and a permitis realistically possible at the end of the road.GENERAL OLSON: It seems to me that's a verydifficult distinction for him to make, because it requiresan analysis of the nature of the Government's interest ineach particular permitting process. We know that they canbe short, we know that they can be long, we know that theycan be comprehensive.QUESTION: I don't think that's necessarilytrue. I think you can segregate, at least to mysatisfaction, the idea of a zoning requirement inexistence -- you have to file for a permit -- andbasically to show that you comply with the zoningrequirements. In other words, if you're going to havezoning at all, a permit process is almost necessary asopposed to a moratorium which doesn't say, you know, look,we're going to look over your application and decidewhether you can build. It simply says no, you can'tbuild. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC GENERAL OLSON: Well, what we would submit isthat that zoning permitting process is part of thebackground principles of land use, land regulation, justas temporary moratoria have always been, that when there's rezoning process, a process referred to by this court inthe First English case, that process may have to come to ahalt.The purpose for the temporary moratoria here wasto allow the agency to develop a sensible plan and, as Mr.Roberts has already noted by reference to the record,there's no indication that it was not in good faith. Thelength of the period, months, was held by the districtcourt to be a reasonable time to accomplish theobjectives. The purpose of the plan, as acknowledged bythe petitioners themselves, is that the purpose for theplan was to prevent the degradation of the lake and theyindicated that a slowdown -- in their brief, theymentioned in their brief that a slowdown in buildingpermits was an appropriate governmental response to thatmeasure.Now, in each instance the question is going tobe, how long did it take, was it in good faith, what wasthe Government up to? Here, the Government was attemptingto preserve the value that Mr. Berger's clients wanted. They themselves purchased their property and planned to th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC build a home on it because of the pristine quality of thelake. They make the argument in their brief that it wasbeing degraded, that something had to be done about it. Alimit on development they say -- I think it's on page oftheir brief -- was the logical objective to solve,approach to solve that particular problem.So what Lake Tahoe, the regional board thatwe're dealing with here today, was doing was saying, waita minute, before we destroy the lake let's stop, let'shave a process in which we evaluate how to solve theproblem that every landowner around the lake, includingthe petitioners, want to have solved.QUESTION: Well, that's extraordinary. Yourefer to it, General Olson, as just a traditionalmoratorium. I don't think this is a traditionalmoratorium at all. I think it's quite extraordinary tojust say, you know, a time out, nobody does anything withthis land. I just don't think that that's the normal kindof moratorium. Nobody does anything beyond the limiteduse that we anticipate we will ultimately impose. It'svery rare that you impose a complete prohibition of use,because that's a condemnation.GENERAL OLSON: It may be unusual, but it is notso rare. In fact, page of the petitioners' brief refersto the two -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: Two cases, as I recall, thatinvolve -- total, right, yes.GENERAL OLSON: Two instances, and the first onethat they refer to is to aid the preparation of acomprehensive plan by precluding developers from obtainingpermits that conflict with the plan being drafted. Thatis precisely almost the same words that were used by thelegislator in connection with the compact that suggestedthat there ought to be a moratorium. This is the compactitself in the amendments. It specifically said thatit was necessary temporarily to halt works of developmentin the region which might otherwise absorb the entirecapability of the region for further development or directit out of harmony with the ultimate plan.Now, if there is some challenge to the goodfaith of what was going on here, that is not this case. If there's some challenge to what happened afterwards -- Ithink the questions Justice Stevens asked point out that,well, if there was something that was done improperly totake these people's property with respect to what happenedafterwards, or how far it went, or how it affected aparticular property owner, that is the Penn Central test.Now, for tactical reasons, the property ownersin this case decided not to pursue a Penn Central case. We heard here today that because it would be too expensive th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC and too complicated for any individual property owner tobring that case. Well, that is going to be the case everytime anybody challenges Government action as a taking of apiece of property.These property owners decided to pool theirinterest and decide not to show what the Government'sinterest was, the degree of invasion in individualproperty rights, how much it hurt, whether or not it wasin good faith and so forth, so they eschewed tacticallyall of those considerations.Now, instead --QUESTION: With some reason, because theycouldn't use their property at all -- at all.GENERAL OLSON: They couldn't use their propertyat all as far as this case was concerned, and the questionpresented in this case, for a limited period of time whilea Government agency was acting to address the problem thatthey acknowledge, because they acknowledge that continueddevelopment along the lines that was occurring at the timethis moratorium was adopted was degrading the lake anddestroying their property.QUESTION: That's fine, and that's a generalsocial problem for which the entire society should pay.GENERAL OLSON: Well --QUESTION: If, indeed, you do need that time to th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC figure out what to do with the lake, why should someindividuals bear the burden of that necessary pause toconsider what to do?GENERAL OLSON: I submit it's the teaching ofthis Court that not every delay, not every intrusion onthe use of property, not every incursion on propertyrights constitutes a taking under the Fifth Amendment.QUESTION: I understand that, but these aren'tthe only people who are using Lake Tahoe. They'represerving Lake Tahoe for all of the citizens of thatState and for citizens of other States, for that matter.GENERAL OLSON: Well, Justice --QUESTION: And yet they're saying, since we needtime to think about this, we are preventing total, total,all the use of your land for years.GENERAL OLSON: Well --QUESTION: I don't see that it seems to me fairthat these people should bear the whole brunt of themoratorium.GENERAL OLSON: They haven't established thatthey have bore the whole brunt. They haven't establishedthe degree to which their individual property rights wereviolated, or the extent of their intrusion. They haven'tdone all of the things that this Court --QUESTION: They've certainly established a th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC common situation. That is, every one of them, presumably,was prevented from using the property for years.GENERAL OLSON: Because the use of thatproperty, as they acknowledge, would have destroyed thevery property rights that they're here seeking tovindicate, and what we're saying is that in many differentsituations the Government might have lots of reasons,local governments, State governments, Federal Governments,to cause a pause in the development.Now, what --QUESTION: I agree with that, and that's whatworries me.GENERAL OLSON: That's right, and --QUESTION: That's exactly what worries me.GENERAL OLSON: And that's why this Court in thePenn Central case gave an opportunity to use a reasoneddecisionmaking to solve the problem, to find out how faris too far. To ask that very question that Justice Holmesdid is to entertain the answer. We need to know how -- inorder to determine how far is too far, this Court has saidrepeatedly we need to look at the circumstances.What -- the rule that petitioners are proposinginterdicts that judicial fact-finding, reasoneddecisionmaking process. What it also does is cause thepermitting agency, the Lake Tahoe Regional Planning Board, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC to try to do this on a permit-by-permit, quasi-adjudicative process, as opposed to what they did do, asinstructed by Congress, a legislative process in whichthings would stop, reasoned decisionmaking would takeplace --QUESTION: Well, no one is challenging theirauthority in the sense of acting for the Government, butthe fact that they were instructed to do it by Congressdoesn't make it any more or any less of a taking.GENERAL OLSON: Well, I understand that,Mr. Chief Justice, but what I'm saying is that theGovernment agencies that looked at this problem decidedthat it had to be solved in a global way. This wasGovernment acting in a way we want it to act, in alegislative process with transparency to look at the wholeproblem and, if there had been a taking because it was toolong, or too much of an intrusion, there is a remedy underthe Fifth Amendment and it's described, how you get tothat remedy is described in this Court's jurisprudence inthe Penn Central case. The petitioners here sought not topursue that remedy.QUESTION: May I ask, do you understand youropponent to be arguing that a curfew would be a taking?GENERAL OLSON: A taking -- well, a curfew --QUESTION: I remember in Honolulu during the war th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC you couldn't go out after certain hours of the night, andso the property was totally useless when the curfew --would that be a taking under --GENERAL OLSON: Well, I think that they'rearguing that any momentary suspension of the use ofproperty would be a taking.QUESTION: So it would be.QUESTION: Thirteenth Amendment.Mr. Berger, you have minutes remaining.REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF MICHAEL M. BERGERON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERSMR. BERGER: Thank you, Your Honor. Let metouch briefly on a couple of things, if I might.First, General Olson talked about this Court'scases that generally have built on the question of, wecan't tell how far the regulation goes until we know howfar they went. Well, that's true, and in this case weknow precisely how far they went. They totally prohibitedthe use of all of the property owners who are here infront of this Court, and it's that question that we'rehere to answer. When we know how far they went, we don'tneed to get into any detailed, factual investigation ofother circumstances.Justice Kennedy asked about the First Englishcase, and whether the Court wasted its time there if the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Ninth Circuit's opinion in this case is simply affirmed,and I would have to conclude that that is indeed whathappened. The clear message of merely affirming what theNinth Circuit did in this case would be to tell all thelower courts that they need to pay no attention to FirstEnglish, because this Court laid out a lot of clearmessages in the First English decision that the NinthCircuit paid no attention to, and --QUESTION: But it also said we merely hold --this is from First English, stating the holding. Wemerely hold that where the Government's activities havealready worked a taking of all use of property, nosubsequent action by the Government can relieve it of theduty to provide compensation for the period during whichthe taking was effective.MR. BERGER: Absolutely, Justice Ginsburg, thatis true, and -- but what the Court said in First Englishwas that we're limiting, you were limiting the case towhat you called the facts presented in that case, and thefacts presented in that case were a temporary moratoriumfor about the same length of time as the one that we'redealing with here, which froze all use of that propertyand, in fact, in my belief had a better justification forit, because it had a health and safety justification,which this one doesn't. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC As you, justice Ginsburg, pointed out, the trialcourt examined at great length the question of whetherthese people were creating a nuisance and concluded thatthere was no nuisance created here. As much as he wasconcerned about the fact that continued development aroundLake Tahoe might change the color of the lake, there wasno health problem with changing the color of the lake. There was no safety problem with changing the color of thelake. We would all be the poorer, I think --QUESTION: But that question was not resolved onappeal.MR. BERGER: That's correct, the court ofappeals did not deal with that question, only the districtcourt did, and its analysis is there for you to look at.The compact amendments that the twolegislatures and Congress went through are interesting inthis case, because while they, in fact, said there was aneed for a moratorium, but the moratorium that thelegislators and Congress agreed to was not the one thatTRPA enacted here. They said, what we need is a cap onthe number of building permits that are issued, and that'sin the record here, too, and they said we're going tolimit the number of building permits that each city andcounty can issue to the number that they issued in .The first thing that TRPA did after that was th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC enacted was to say, we need to rearrange that, and we'regoing to say, you can issue those permits, but you can'tissue any of them to these people. These people aretotally frozen out, and they're being frozen out as partof a major public project so that we can clarify thewaters in Lake Tahoe, and it just seems to us that whereyou have these people who are being asked to make thissacrifice on behalf of the greater public good, either ofthe people who already own homes around Lake Tahoe, andwhose lands therefore gets more valuable, or on behalf ofthe rest of us who don't own homes up there but who mightlike to vacation there so that we can also enjoy thebeauties of Lake Tahoe, that those people shouldn't beleft flapping in the breeze with no compensation for thefact that they're the ones that have been asked to pay forthis project.CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: Thank you, Mr. Berger.The case is submitted.(Whereupon, at : p.m., the case in theabove-entitled matter was submitted.) th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC 