 IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XUNITED STATES, Petitioner ::v. : No. -RALPH ARVIZU. :- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XWashington, D.C.Tuesday, November , The above-entitled matter came on for oralargument before the Supreme Court of the United States at: a.m.APPEARANCES:AUSTIN C. SCHLICK, ESQ., Assistant to the SolicitorGeneral, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; onbehalf of the Petitioner.VICTORIA A. BRAMBL, ESQ., Assistant Federal PublicDefender, Tucson, Arizona; on behalf of theRespondent. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC C O N T E N T SORAL ARGUMENT OF AUSTIN C. SCHLICK, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioner VICTORIA A. BRAMBL, ESQ.On behalf of the Respondent REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OFAUSTIN C. SCHLICK, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioner PAGE th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC P R O C E E D I N G S(: a.m.)CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: We'll hear argumentfirst this morning in No. -, United States againstRalph Arvizu.Mr. Schlick.ORAL ARGUMENT OF AUSTIN C. SCHLICKON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERMR. SCHLICK: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court:Since Terry, this Court has held repeatedly thatreasonable suspicion analysis requires a common senseevaluation of the totality of the circumstances. Thedecision below is fundamentally inconsistent with thatrule because it requires law enforcement officers todisregard potentially relevant facts when determiningwhether investigative stop is warranted. This Court's decisions in Cortez and Sokolow areespecially clear in rejecting attempts to put categoriesof facts off limits. In Cortez, the Court held that avehicle's route, the timing of its trip, and its capacityfor carrying illegal aliens together establishedreasonable suspicion, notwithstanding that each of thosefacts independently might be consistent with innocenttravel. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC In Sokolow, the Court rejected a rule that wouldhave limited officers' ability to consider the personalcharacteristics of suspected drug smugglers. The Courtheld that that sort of rule adds to the difficulty ofapplying the reasonable suspicion standard. It does notease it. And the Court further confirmed that innocentfacts, facts consistent with innocent travel, inthemselves may together establish reasonable suspicion.In this case, the Ninth Circuit attempted toestablish a rule that would bar categoricallyconsideration of certain facts that the court deemedinnocent. That -- that rule presents two fundamentalproblems. The first is that it doesn't accommodate thesubtleties of real world encounters. For everycategorical rule, there would have to be exceptions andsubrules, and even if law enforcement officers could beasked to master those, they would still then have toanticipate new situations, and those rules could notprovide guidance when --QUESTION: Mr. Schlick, you said this is an areain which one can use one's common sense, and I thoughtthat what the Ninth Circuit was telling us was that someitems in that list under all circumstances wouldn't castsuspicion. And one was -- had a certain familiar ring th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC with me that when you see a police car, you slow down. This wasn't a car that came to a screeching halt or wastrying to dodge it, and then it just slowed down. Andisn't that a most natural reaction? MR. SCHLICK: The problem, Justice Ginsburg, wasthat the Ninth Circuit didn't admit of situations in whichdeceleration might be relevant. For example, in the Fifth Circuit's Villalobos case, which we cited in ourbrief, the law enforcement officer pulled in front of thevehicle that was suspected. The vehicle then slowed todrop back away from the law enforcement officer vehicle,and the Border Patrol officer in that case deemed thatsuspicious, that it appeared that the vehicle had changedits speed in order to increase its distance from thelaw --QUESTION: But they weren't talking about thatcase. They were talking about this case. And I thoughtwhat they were saying was that there was nothingsuspicious about the slowdown here, and if that's all thatyou have, it won't do.MR. SCHLICK: Justice Ginsburg, we read thecourt of appeals opinion as attempting to establishcategorical rules. On page a of the petition appendix,the court says, we attempt here to describe and clearlydelimit the extent to which certain factors may be th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC considered by law enforcement officers in making stopssuch as the stop here. On the same page, slowing downafter spotting a law enforcement vehicle is an entirelynormal response that is in no way indicative of criminalactivity. That -- that appears not to have made a -- thepossibility that deceleration may in some context besuspicious. And indeed, in the Ninth Circuit's Sigmond-Ballesteros case, decided after this case, the NinthCircuit interpreted its decision in this case as holdingthat only certain factors may be considered by lawenforcement officers when making stops. And it's -- it'sthat categorical rule that is inconsistent with thetotality of the circumstances test. QUESTION: I suppose it would be suspicious if-- if you're on a highway that has not only a maximumspeed but a minimum speed, and -- and the car slows down miles below the minimum when it -- when it sees apolice officer. That -- that wouldn't be a normalreaction, would it? MR. SCHLICK: No. No, it would not. QUESTION: And -- and do you think it's a normalreaction always to slow down when one sees a police -- apolice car even if you happen to be going miles belowthe speed limit already? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. SCHLICK: It may depend on the particulararea, and that's -- that may be a question on which youwould look to the law enforcement officer's experience andexpertise.QUESTION: I don't do it. Maybe you do it. Butif I'm miles under the speed limit already, I -- Idon't immediately slow down when I see a police car. Idon't know why you are willing to accept that as a -- asan image of reality that everybody slows down when you seea police car. If you're -- if you're going over the speedlimit, I assume you do.MR. SCHLICK: I think your intuition accordswith common experience and the holdings of most courts.QUESTION: There was a concrete record here ofwhat this driver was doing, and he wasn't going milesan hour. He was going a -- a normal speed.MR. SCHLICK: Justice Ginsburg, on page ofthe joint appendix, Agent Stoddard testified that theextreme deceleration in this case, from about to miles per hour down to about or miles per hour, wasnot normal and did set respondent's vehicle apart fromordinary traffic on those roads.QUESTION: What was the speed limit on theroads?MR. SCHLICK: Between miles per hour and th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC miles per hour, Your Honor.QUESTION: And that's what he slowed down to.QUESTION: That was an established speed limit?MR. SCHLICK: Yes, Your Honor. In -- in thejoint appendix, there are photographs which show speedlimit signs, and it's miles per hour down near thesouthern portion of the roads, in the northern portion.QUESTION: What -- what was the portion where --where he slowed down? I mean, it was to ? No. Itwas either or . What was it, do you know? MR. SCHLICK: I -- I don't know for sure. I --I would guess it was , but I don't know for sure.QUESTION: But that's what he slowed down to. So, he had been going above the speed limit.QUESTION: That sounds a lot more reasonablethen. I mean, gee, if you don't slow down to the speedlimit when you see a police car, you're in big trouble.(Laughter.) MR. SCHLICK: Again, Agent Stoddard testifiedthat that sort of deceleration, that speed, was not commonin the area, and it --QUESTION: You mean they just keep zipping alongat despite seeing a police car. What part of thecountry is this anyway? (Laughter.) th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: It's Arizona. (Laughter.) QUESTION: What was the nature of the road? Was-- was it a regularly paved road? MR. SCHLICK: No, Mr. Chief Justice. The roadon which respondent was apprehended was a dirt road. Itwas a road that Agent Stoddard testified is used primarilyby the local ranchers and by Forest Service vehicles andby the Border Patrol itself. It's -- it's not an improvedhighway. And it was extremely unusual, Agent Stoddardbelieved, for a vehicle, a minivan, to be on these roads,and it was a notorious smuggling route. QUESTION: Is this one on exhibit of the jointappendix, or have I got the wrong road there? Exhibit is Kuykendall Cutoff Road and Rucker Canyon Road.MR. SCHLICK: Yes, Justice Kennedy. The -- thephotographs at the back of the joint appendix depict theroute. They -- they moved from the southerly portion ofthe route up, as you get back to the later pages, towardthe northern portion. Exhibit , for instance, is theintersection of Kuykendall Road and Rucker Canyon Road,which is very close to where the apprehension occurred.The maps in the joint appendix on pages and show the area at issue. And you can see the first ofthose maps on page shows the route beginning at the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC bottom of the page in the center, Leslie Canyon Road. Respondent then -- and that's -- that's paved for about miles, about the first miles near Douglas. Respondent traveled north on that road and thenat the T intersection you see approximately in the middleof the page, by which point the -- the roads becomeunpaved, headed right, away from the Border Patrolcheckpoint, away from the highway, which would take younorth, through the dirt road, proceeded up Rucker CanyonRoad, about three-quarters of the way up the page. That'san important intersection.QUESTION: Well, he turned left rather thanright, didn't he? MR. SCHLICK: I'm sorry. Turned -- turned rightat the intersection, at that T intersection where LeslieCanyon Road jogs right, then stayed on Leslie Canyon Road,took a left on Rucker Canyon. And that was a criticalturn. Had he gone right, he would have been goingtowards the only recreation areas in the vicinity. Andthat might have explained the presence of cargo in his --in his minivan. Agent Stoddard could see that thereappeared to be cargo on the floor of the van. But heinstead turned left, away from the only -- the localrecreation area and on a route that, if he then took -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC took a right onto Kuykendall Road, which is -- which isagain almost in the center of the page near the topbetween numbers and -- if he took that right onKuykendall Road, then he would be circumventing the BorderPatrol checkpoint which is indicated by number on theleft-hand margin of the page.QUESTION: The idea that he would eventually gonorth on Kuykendall and then take -- go west to rejoin north of the checkpoint.MR. SCHLICK: That -- that's right, and thenhead up to I-, which would allow him to go to Tucson --Tucson or Phoenix, for example. And it was that routewhich Agent Stoddard testified is a notorious smugglingroute, very rarely used by anyone except ranchers andForest Service personnel --QUESTION: Although it is a route that couldhave been used by people going up to the Chiricahuas.MR. SCHLICK: It's -- it's possible, Your Honor,but --QUESTION: From Douglas. MR. SCHLICK: -- the district court addressedthat possibility on page a of the petition appendix andsaid that that would require a or mile trip overunimproved dirt roads. The most logical way to go is totake I- straight up I- and then across to Chiricahua th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC National Monument. That's particularly significant in this casebecause the registration of the minivan was to a blockthat was just two blocks from I- in Douglas, and thatmakes it all the more inexplicable that a -- a vehiclethat should know the roads would go out of its way toLeslie Canyon Road, rather than just going two blocks,picking up the highway and heading straight north. Youknow, that's -- that's the route that you would take if itwere a long distance trip. I said that the cargo couldn't be explained bythe recreation area, because it had already passed theturn on Rucker Canyon Road. Nor could it be explained bya long distance trip because the highway is the road thatyou would take if you were headed on -- on a long distancewith children with suitcases or overnight bags. QUESTION: Mr. Schlick, could I come back to the-- to the slowing -- slowing up? I'm not quite sure whatthe -- what the Government's objection to the court'sopinion is. I -- I would tend to think that -- that it istrue, in the circumstances of this case, that if somebodyis barreling along at , sees a police car, and slowsdown to , that is not at all suspicious. Indeed, I -- Imight consider it suspicious if he continued barrelingalong at . th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC So, you know, if your argument is that in thecircumstances of this case, the slowing down wassuspicious, I -- I don't think I agree with you. On theother hand, it is the case that the court of appealsseemed to have -- seems to say that slowing down can neverbe suspicious. Now, which of the two are -- are you objectingto? Do you really think that -- I mean, that there wasproper suspicion in this case simply because the personslowed down to the speed limit when he saw the police car?MR. SCHLICK: In this case, Justice Scalia, thedeceleration is -- is not a factor on which the case wouldturn. There were other indications of nervousness whichI'd like to discuss in a moment. QUESTION: Okay. So, as to that factor, your --your -- really your only objection is you can't be ascategorical as the court of appeals put the point. MR. SCHLICK: That's -- that's exactly right. We think it's a good example of the error of the court ofappeals' approach. But in this case, even looking at the factor ofnervousness, there were other indications. Afterdecelerating, respondent drove past the Border Patrolvehicle and stared rigidly straight ahead, without lookingat or acknowledging Agent Stoddard, which -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: May I ask this question? At the verypage of the opinion that you call our attention to, thecourt of appeals said, in reaching our conclusion, we findthat some of the factors on which the district courtrelied are neither relevant nor appropriate to areasonable suspicious -- suspicion analysis in this case. And are you agreeing with Justice Scalia that the slowingdown in this case was not relevant?MR. SCHLICK: Justice Stevens, we would say thatit had some relevance. It was -- it was not aparticularly important factor, but it had some relevance. The -- the court of appeals I think --QUESTION: Do you think the court of appealserred in saying that in this case it had no relevance?MR. SCHLICK: Yes, Justice Stevens. QUESTION: I see. QUESTION: And what about -- what about, youknow, not -- not waving to the police car as you go by? Idon't know when I -- if I were ever exceeding the speedlimit and saw --(Laughter.) QUESTION: -- and saw a police car, it seems tome I would slow down and -- and try to give the impressionthat I wasn't slowing down because I saw the police car.(Laughter.) th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: I mean, you know, you don't hit thebrake and wave at the police officer. (Laughter.) QUESTION: So, why is that a suspicious factor? I don't see why in the circumstances of this case that's asuspicious factor either.MR. SCHLICK: Agent Stoddard's testimony wasthat both respondent and his front-seat adult passengerstared straight ahead. The respondent gripped the wheelvery tightly in -- in a position that Agent Stoddarddeemed characteristic of someone who simply wants to meltinto their vehicle if possible, and --QUESTION: Or maybe somebody who had been going miles an hour in a -mile-an-hour zone.MR. SCHLICK: Again, Agent Stoddard's testimonywas -- was that respondent's behavior was -- was veryunusual. And after he saw those -- those and began tofollow the minivan, there was another indication ofnervousness, which was at the intersection of RuckerCanyon Road and Kuykendall Road. Respondent turned on hisblinker, well ahead of the intersection, then turned itoff, drove towards the intersection, and just before theintersection, made a sharp turn and turned on his blinkeragain, which again indicated uncertainty or nervousness, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC which supported the inference that he was unusuallydistracted by the presence of the Border Patrol vehicle. QUESTION: What's the testimony as to the amountof use this particular route got? How many cars a day,anything about how many cars a day or an hour came overit?MR. SCHLICK: The testimony, Mr. Chief Justice,was that this road -- the sensor hits on -- the BorderPatrol maintains sensors along Leslie Canyon Road andRucker Canyon Road, and that the first sensor on LeslieCanyon Road, which responded to northbound traffic, wastriggered about once every hours. QUESTION: So, that would mean one car every hours? MR. SCHLICK: Correct. And -- and that'sdirectly relevant to the expected response. When you'rein an area where one car travels approximately every hours, you're more likely to acknowledge perhaps afriendly wave -- another vehicle. This road was extremelyremote, and again, most of the traffic was local vehiclesfrom -- from the ranches, and the minivan was a vehiclewhich was not only unusual by type for this road, becauseit was not a four-wheel drive vehicle, but also had thecapability of carrying a large amount of concealed cargo,which made it well-suited to smuggling activity. This th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Court noted in Brignoni-Ponce that that is a factor thatis potentially relevant when determining whetherinvestigative stop is warranted in the border context.The -- the second problem with the court ofappeals approach, in addition to the fact that it can'tcomprehend the subtleties the real world encounters, isthat it's unrealistic to ask officers to put out of theirminds facts that they see before them and believe to berelevant. Even if officers could do that, they would thenbe left to speculate about the hypothetical import of theimagined set of facts, and that's going to --QUESTION: One -- one of the things the NinthCircuit said is just looking at this laundry list and justto throw everything in and mix it all up and say it'ssuspicious that the driver didn't look at the policeofficer or didn't wave, but it's equally suspicious thatthe children did wave. So, one characterization of thatwas damned if you do, damned if you don't. If you wave,that's no good, and if you don't wave, that's no good. And I think that the -- the Ninth Circuit can't be faultedfor saying it's not good enough just to list everythingthat happened and say it's -- everything the officer couldperceive and say it was all relevant. Some of it isrelevant and some of it isn't. Why would, for example, the children -- how old th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC were the children, by the way?MR. SCHLICK: , , and .QUESTION: And the children were waving in theback, and something was to be inferred from that? MR. SCHLICK: They weren't simply waving, YourHonor. Without turning toward the Border Patrolvehicle --QUESTION: They were waving forward. MR. SCHLICK: Correct. QUESTION: And -- and the car -- the police --the Border Patrol car was behind them.MR. SCHLICK: Correct. It may be expected thata Border Patrol agent would have some experience withchildren's reaction to him in his vehicle. And in thiscase he said he -- he hadn't seen anything like this. Itwent on for about or minutes. It was methodical. Thechildren waved together, facing forward without -- withoutfacing Agent Stoddard. With respect to the damned if you do/damned ifyou don't argument, waving or not waving, the court ofappeals ignored the fact that -- Agent Stoddard'stestimony was that he deemed it suspicious that when theBorder Patrol vehicle was stopped and respondent drovepast, respondent didn't acknowledge him at all. Afterthat, he turned and began to follow respondent's vehicle, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC and it was only at that point that the children begantheir odd waving. So, it's a reasonable inference thathaving failed in his effort to avoid the -- the BorderPatrol officer's attention, respondent then went to planB, which was we'll attempt to -- to look like a family on-- on an outing, and one way of -- of perhaps deflectingthe agent's suspicion is to have the children wave. Butthat resulted, from Agent Stoddard's perspective, in a --a very odd circumstance, and that's the exactly the sortof situation that the reasonable suspicion analysis --QUESTION: To -- to what extent, Mr. Schlick, dothree judges, say, sitting in San Francisco or Los Angelesor nine Justices sitting here -- do we defer to thejudgment in these matters of a Border Patrol agent on thescene? MR. SCHLICK: Ornelas, among other cases,addressed that, Your Honor, and -- and held that it'sappropriate to give due weight to the expertise andexperience of law enforcement officers and local judges. And in this case, both Agent Stoddard and -- and the trialjudge deemed this route to be unusual, to be associatedwith smuggling. It deemed -- the trial judge deemed thefactors that I've enumerated to be significant in thecontext of what was going on out there, and I believethose are the trial judge's words. We have to look at th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC this in the context of what was going on out there. The cargo, for example. He considered thepossibility that it might just be camping supplies, but hesaid that would be -- that would be a possible inferencewere it not for all the other indications of illegality. So, he -- he correctly undertook to analyze the facts --QUESTION: May I ask this question? I got theimpression, in reading the officer's testimony, what hereally did is once he checked and found where the car camefrom, where it was registered in a high drug area, that'swhat triggered his decision to stop the vehicle. And myquestion to you is supposing all he knew was the veryunusual circumstances of a family driving in an areathat's mostly driven through by ranchers and -- and notfamilies. That fact, the rare amount of traffic on theroad, and the -- and the location from which the caroriginated, would that be enough in your view?MR. SCHLICK: If you --QUESTION: -- put aside all these rather unusualthings like waving and slowing down and so forth. Wouldthose three facts be enough in your view to justify thestop? MR. SCHLICK: As -- as I understand yourquestion, no, I don't think they would be. But when youstart adding factors such as missing the turnoff to the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC recreation areas, such as carrying the concealed cargo --QUESTION: Well, missing the turnoff is part ofthe location, as I say. The unusual location of thevehicle at the time of the stop. Is that -- and the factit was not the normal. You normally see ranchers or -- orBorder Patrol people. You don't normally see families outthere. That's a -- that's a road that is not usuallyused. Is the -- I'm just wondering if the rarity of the-- of the general scene plus the fact that they did --that the officer did check and find that this vehicle wasregistered in the -- in the area known for drug smuggling,was that enough? I think you said no.MR. SCHLICK: Is -- in your hypothetical,Justice Stevens, is the fact that it was a minivan?QUESTION: Yes.MR. SCHLICK: Yes, yes. If you knew that it wasa minivan, which was out of character, suited to carryingaliens, and knew that the route had been taken, that lastturn onto Kuykendall Road, north so that the minivan wouldnot approach the checkpoint, then yes, there would bereasonable suspicion.QUESTION: In other words, you're saying -- whatyou're saying I think is that even if the Ninth Circuitwere correct in disregarding the waving and the slowingdown and the failure to wave once, you'd still have a th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC reasonable suspicion.MR. SCHLICK: Yes, Justice Stevens. It would beour position that even if you consider only the threefactors that the court of appeals considered categoricallyin the analysis -- that would be the route, the fact thatit was a minivan, and the time. The time was when theBorder Patrol was likely to have stepped down itssurveillance. The court of appeals held if you consideredthose factors, there was no reasonable suspicion. Wewould disagree and say even if you only consider thosefactors, there was reasonable suspicion. But theappropriate analysis is to consider all the factorscollectively, and then clearly there were grounds for thestop. If the Court has no further questions --QUESTION: I have another question, if -- if youhave the time. This checkpoint is about miles north of theborder. Was there also a checkpoint in the --in the townfrom which the car originated? I'm just a little puzzledat what the -- at the setup here, why there's thecheckpoint miles from the border, and whether or notthere was one closer to the border. MR. SCHLICK: There -- there's a borderinspection station in -- in Douglas, but the Court th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC explained in Martinez-Fuerte the -- the criteria theBorder Patrol uses to establish its fixed checkpoints, andI think those criteria continue to hold true today. Oneof them is that the checkpoint should be outside, about miles from the border, because miles is the zone inwhich a border crossing card allows an alien to travel. So, you would -- so, you would be stopping aliens who were-- who were legally there because of their border crossingcard. Also, you want your checkpoint to be somewhatremote from -- from the population center. Douglas is atown of about , people. And you want your -- yourcheckpoint to capture traffic which is heading north, awayfrom the border, rather than just local traffic withinthat area. QUESTION: And then the other question I had isabout the sensors. There were two sensors triggered inthis case, as I understand the record. Are there -- arethe sensors spotted purely in order to identify everyvehicle that uses this particular road that this -- thisman used?MR. SCHLICK: The sensors are magnetic sensorswhich are directional. So, they don't pick up southboundtravel, which would -- which would not be consistent withsmuggling away from the border. They do pick up all th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC northbound traffic. So, it would pick local --QUESTION: Well, they picked up not only thenorthbound, but also the fact that he turned right thefirst time. No, left the first time. He passed theRucker Canyon Road. MR. SCHLICK: Yes. In this case there were twosensors. One was before Rucker Canyon Road. When thatsensor was triggered, Agent Stoddard began to drivetowards respondent to -- to check out the sensor hit. Andthen a second sensor was triggered after respondent turnedleft on Rucker Canyon Road and away from the nationalforest. QUESTION: Away from the recreational area. MR. SCHLICK: That's right. QUESTION: Yes. QUESTION: Very well, Mr. Schlick. Ms. Brambl, we'll hear from you.ORAL ARGUMENT OF VICTORIA A. BRAMBLON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTMS. BRAMBL: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court:I wanted to respond to the question that youasked, Mr. Chief Justice, about who should we give dueweight to and who is going to know better, the officer inthe field, the district court, or the court of appeals. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC And certainly the decision in Ornelas v. United Statesdoes instruct us that we give weight -- we review forclear error the -- the factual findings that the districtcourt made. However, inferences from those findings thatthe district court makes and -- and that the officer makesare reviewed. They're reviewed giving due weight tothose. That is not as strict or rigorous as the standardas for clear error. And then finally, Ornelas -- that decisionreally wanted and instructed the courts -- the courts ofappeal to issue opinions that were instructive to firm upthe precedent and to offer guidance to everybody, toofficers in the field, to litigants, to district courts. And really, the Ninth Circuit in this case -- they handlethe lion's share, over two-thirds of -- or approximatelytwo-thirds of the border stop cases come from the NinthCircuit. They also have developed experience. They'vedeveloped both practical experience in seeing these casesover and over again and seeing neutral and rote factorsoffered over and over again that really don't have anyweight. And they're instructing through this opinion andseveral other opinions that they've issued over the last or years --QUESTION: All those -- that type of opinionseems to me contrary to our opinion in Sokolow where we th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC said you just can't categorize these kind of factors andsay that this kind of thing is never useful and somethingelse is always useful. MS. BRAMBL: I think that all the parties agreethat the totality cannot have categorical rules because --QUESTION: Well, then certainly you -- you must-- you're not defending then some parts of the NinthCircuit opinion. Is that correct? MS. BRAMBL: I think that some of the languagethat the Ninth Circuit used was inartful in that it madeit sound -- if you take one sentence out of the wholeopinion, it would make it sound like they were creatingcategorical rules. But when you read everything, thewhole opinion, in the context, they do cite all of thecases this Court has decided: Sokolow, Terry, Cortez,Brignoni-Ponce, Wardlow. They say that they considereverything.But then they go through factor by factor. AndI do defend the way they went about that, separating outthe factors and discussing them because it seems that thatwould be the only orderly way to go about the analysis,and the only way to -- to offer an opinion that reallydoes give some instruction and guidance. QUESTION: How -- how is that? I was quitedisturbed actually by the opinion because I thought there th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC were five or six Supreme Court cases that say this is justthe kind of opinion you should not write. So, then I -- Iwent through it, and it says, for example, one of thefactors, the fact the minivan slowed, is prohibited by ourprecedent. Well, my own common sense reaction would be itall depends. If he was going miles an hour and slowedto in -- in seconds, I'd say, why in the middle ofthe desert did he feel compelled to slow so much? I -- Isuspect people don't give tickets in Arizona for driving miles in the middle of the desert. Maybe they do, butit doesn't say that. I think it would depend. He says that the fact that a van is registeredto an address in a block notorious for smuggling is of nosignificance and may not be given any weight. Then there are four or five others which arelisted where the second factor is of questionable value.The failure -- he has five of them there, which say ourprecedent says you give no weight. Now, I just don't see how to square that eitherwith Ornelas, Sokolow, or five other precedents of thisCourt, as well as with common sense, because it seems tome it would all depend. MS. BRAMBL: Well, I certainly agree that --that there may be circumstances in which where you live orslowing down could be. With respect to the first one, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC where they do say squarely prohibited by our precedent,they go ahead and -- and then relate instances whereslowing down -- where they do find that this issuspicious. Just merely the act of slowing down they havedetermined, using common sense and -- and I think a lot ofthe comments this morning illustrate that if maybe not auniversal reaction, it's so common to slow down when yousee a law enforcement officer, that it's meaningless.QUESTION: Maybe -- maybe we really don't knowenough to say that. I -- I was engaging in thatconversation with the Government's counsel. But -- but inpoint of fact, I'm not sure what the reaction is, as -- asJustice Breyer puts it, out in the middle of the desert.For one thing, I don't know whether -- whetherBorder Patrol officers can give speeding tickets. Foranother thing, I don't know whether it's generally knownthat Border Patrol officers cannot give speeding tickets.And therefore, I don't know whether it's, indeed, quitecommon out in the middle of the -- of the vast desert ofArizona for people to go barreling along at miles anhour past a Border Patrol agent and ordinarily to wave andsay hi. (Laughter.) QUESTION: These are all matters that I'm surethe Border Patrol agent was aware of, and perhaps the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC district court. I'm less certain that the court ofappeals out in San Francisco was -- was aware of all ofthose things. Why shouldn't I give the Border Patrolagent and the district court the benefit of the doubt?MS. BRAMBL: Well, the agent -- like so many ofthe factors in this case, the agent didn't really tie downor tie into his experience why slowing down would bepredictive or indicative of not just speeding but ofcriminal activity such as alien or drug smuggling, whichwas the reason that he was out there. QUESTION: Well, he said, people, when they seemy Border Patrol car, normally don't slow down. Hecertainly said that, and he found that to be unusual. Now, why -- why should I think that that is false?MS. BRAMBL: Well --QUESTION: Do you know, as a matter of fact,whether Border Patrol agents give speeding tickets? MS. BRAMBL: I think that that's an openquestion. QUESTION: It's an open question whether theygive speeding tickets? MS. BRAMBL: But I believe that generally --QUESTION: Don't they have other things to do?MS. BRAMBL: They do have other things to do. Ibelieve that if driving would be characterized as th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC dangerous where maybe the public was in jeopardy, thatthey would be authorized to make a stop, but just becausesomeone is speeding or violating an Arizona traffic law, Idon't believe that they would make such a stop.But I wanted to point out that the Ninth Circuitopinion went on, after they said that this factor wassquarely prohibited, to say the kinds of ways that slowingdown or a deceleration would be indicative of reasonablesuspicion or would -- would have some weight. And theycharacterized that as evasive driving where -- whereperhaps the Border Patrol is seen and then there's an actof evasion as well as deceleration.QUESTION: Ms. Brambl, the -- the district courtruled for the Government in this case, and the NinthCircuit reversed. And I don't see that in the districtcourt's opinion, which the court of appeals was -- wasreviewing, that same laundry list that appears in theNinth Circuit's decision. So, what I don't understand isif you just take the district court's opinion, what didthe district court rely on that could be questionable? The district judge did not rely on the children waving, asI recall. MS. BRAMBL: Well, the district court judge didrefer to that, but what's -- what the -- the court ofappeals picked up on, which the district court didn't, was th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC all of the inferences that -- and subjective beliefs thatthis waving entailed because it wasn't just -- thechildren were facing forward and waving forward. So, itwas a big leap that they were even waving at the agent tobegin with and an even bigger leap that the agent madethat they were coached to do so, presumably by the driveror the adult passengers. And that's what the NinthCircuit seized on.And another big deficiency with this is how doeswaving or waving in a mechanical, odd way, as the districtcourt found -- how would that be tied in to criminalbehavior? And the record doesn't indicate how.QUESTION: How do we know from the record whatkind of wave it was? What -- what he says in histestimony is they kind of stuck their hands up and beganwaving to me like this. Well, I'm sorry. (Laughter.) QUESTION: There we are. Okay? Now, the person who saw that was the districtjudge, and the way it was characterized by the policemanis it wasn't in a normal pattern. It looked like theywere instructed to do so. And without being able to seewhat he did, it's a little tough for me. And -- and so, Idon't know. What the courts both say is it doesn't addmuch. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC The odd thing about the court of appeals opinionis it seems to suggest, because it doesn't prove the case,it's not relevant. Now, I -- I mean, what's the responseto that? MS. BRAMBL: Well, I think that -- that goes tothe heart of the issue presented by this case, which iswhat can the court of appeals exclude as factors, even ifthey do it on a case-by-case basis. Can they look atfactors and just say, you know what, this is so marginallyrelevant or completely weightless that we're not going to-- to count it in the equation? And although I don'tdefend this --QUESTION: But it does seem as though the NinthCircuit was trying to suggest that no other court couldconsider it in the calculus either in the future and --and was making some kind of effort to develop some morerigid guidelines than we've seen in the past.Let me tell you what concerns me very frankly. We live in a perhaps more dangerous age today than we didwhen this event took place. And are we going to back offfrom totality of the circumstances in an era when it maybecome very important to us to have that as the overalltest? And I'm concerned that the Ninth Circuit opinionseemed to be a little more rigid than our precedentsrequire or that common sense would dictate today. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MS. BRAMBL: Well, I certainly agree thattotality and reasonableness has to remain flexible, andthat given the times that we live in, that perhapsadjustments are going to be made. Thankfully this case Idon't know presents the -- the specter of that. And it -- it seems that what the Ninth Circuittried to do in this case was to really provide somemeaningful guidance. They could have just listed thefactors in a very straight forward way without anydiscussion and just said, you know what? We add all thesetogether and there's no reasonable suspicion. And weprobably wouldn't be here today. However, what they triedto do I think is to provide some guidance for everybodybecause when we get these cases as --QUESTION: When we have said that the test istotality of the circumstances, the amount of guidance thatcan be provided by -- by a court is -- is somewhatlimited.MS. BRAMBL: It is but there's a surprisingrepetition of factors. This Court in --QUESTION: A surprising repetition of factors bythe Ninth Circuit.MS. BRAMBL: Well -- well, even this Court inOrnelas recognized that certain fact patterns weresimilar, such as Sokolow and Royer and a few others, that th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC really -- given how fact-specific they are, there reallyis, especially when you start looking in border areaswhere -- for instance, there are a number of stops wherethere are checkpoints and -- and people claiming thatperhaps these people are on the road for checkpointevasion purposes. QUESTION: Yes, but -- but you know, checkpointsvary too. The checkpoint north of San Diego is -- is in aheavily populated area where things may be quite differentthan out here in the Sulphur Springs Valley where therearen't very many people. MS. BRAMBL: Well, sure. It seems that -- thatif you look through, for instance, just Ninth Circuitopinions, or if you go over to Fifth Circuit and TenthCircuit, but also look at the -- the border areas, you dosee surprising number of repetition, even though perhapssome are in very urbanized areas and some are in ruralareas.QUESTION: Well, that's -- that's true. Theofficers are -- are trained to tell the district court,the finder of fact, all of the factors that entered intotheir judgment. It seems to me, though, a fair reading, anecessary reading of the Ninth Circuit's opinion, that wenow have seven factors that every officer in the NinthCircuit must memorize and not rely on. And I just don't th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC see how that's consistent with the ability of the policeto perform their work or consistent at all with ouropinions. And as the court -- as the Government has toldus, the Ninth Circuit itself has construed this opinion insubsequent cases precisely that way.MS. BRAMBL: Well, the Ninth Circuit, even sincethis opinion, still examines all of the factors. Theystill look at the totality even in the Sigmond-Ballesteroscase that the Government cited in its briefs. However --QUESTION: You have a point that's a seriouspoint I think. The first time I see a case where thepoliceman testifies I -- I stopped this individual becausehe looked nervous as he came away from the airplane downto the baggage counter, and he looked both ways, and thenthere was sweat on his upper lip and he walked around thebaggage thing, and then, looking around, went over to hissuitcase -- the first time you see that, you think, well,that makes sense to me. But when you see exactly the samething times, you begin to wonder. Now, that I guess isyour point.MS. BRAMBL: Well, it -- well, it is.QUESTION: Okay. Now, what do we do about that? I had thought that the way to deal with it is -- totalityof the circumstances is the way to deal with it, nothaving rigid rules that say you can never consider whether th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC his -- he was sweating or wasn't sweating. In otherwords, I don't see how a rigid rule helps. It puts toomany cases on one -- it gets the wrong cases. It doesn'tdraw a sensible line. Now, what's your view of that? I see yourproblem. I want to know the solution. MS. BRAMBL: Well, I think that the solution isto allow courts like the Ninth Circuit and other circuitsto say, look, we see the same thing time and time again,and it really has very little or no meaning. Officers, wewant you to tell us why this factor is suspicious. It'snot going to be enough anymore to come in and just say, helooked nervous, he slowed down. And --QUESTION: But that -- and I -- I think your --your point is -- is well taken as far as you go, but itseems to me that that's not going to help the NinthCircuit opinion here because what you're saying is don'trely on highly general factors which are so general thatwe really, in the abstract, don't know where they point. Be more specific. Give us facts not conclusions. Butthat's not -- that's not what the Ninth Circuit said. TheNinth Circuit, in effect, said, well, we're -- we'resimply going to exclude certain categories of fact.MS. BRAMBL: Well, as I said, the language theNinth Circuit used could have been a lot more clear and a th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC lot more artful.QUESTION: Well, it might have said what yousaid, but it didn't say what you said. I mean, isn't thatso?MS. BRAMBL: Well, they did say frequently, andin effect, when there was a rehearing in this case, theyamended the opinion to add under the circumstances of thiscase and in this case on many, many times. QUESTION: Maybe not often enough. (Laughter.) MS. BRAMBL: It would have helped. QUESTION: Because -- because initially theopinion did read categorically we don't consider slowingdown, we don't consider kids waving, and then they threwin a lot of under the circumstances in this case, not in-- in every instance, but in a number of cases. That's --the amendment seems at odds with what the original opinionwas, which seemed to be saying we have three categorieshere: never relevant, sometimes relevant, always relevant.MS. BRAMBL: And I think you're right. They --I wouldn't say that they were categorical in excluding,but they -- they certainly did seem to suggest that --that certain factors were not relevant, and they did addin this case. And basically if someone comes into courtwith the exact same factor and they're not able to show th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC why that's relevant or probative in this case, why thisfactor isn't neutral and does have an inference ofcriminal activity, then that factor, if you follow the --the other courts follow the Ninth Circuit's opinion it'sgoing to -- it's going to be excluded. It's not going tobe considered as relevant or probative. I think that that is the kind of guidance thatthe circuits should be offering. QUESTION: Well, one thing that the circuitdidn't do and it did puzzle me was when I read thedistrict court's opinion, I thought the district court wassaying, yes, I could go along with they're in a recreationarea. But when it came to a certain point and they made aturn, it made no sense at all because if that's where theywere going to go, they should have gotten right on thehighway. That seemed to be unanswered, that. Why wasn't-- the -- the Ninth Circuit didn't deal with that asprecisely as the district court did.MS. BRAMBL: That's true, but the Ninth Circuitdid point out -- and if you look at the map that's on --on page of the joint appendix -- that's the map thatwe submitted in connection with this case and that thedistrict and the -- the Ninth Circuit considered -- itshows that -- it's got a lot more detail, as far as a lotof the destinations. And when the Government said that th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC really there weren't any destinations beyond RuckerCanyon, beyond where the stop occurred --QUESTION: Where you turn onto Kuykendall?MS. BRAMBL: Yes. Once you turn onto that roadand you keep going, you can see to the east there's anumber of campgrounds, a number of areas, including --QUESTION: The Chiricahua?MS. BRAMBL: Yes. QUESTION: Yes, but to go from Douglas toChiricahua National Monument would be -- would beextremely odd to go the route this minivan took. You'd goup -- up and cut over above the checkpoint.MS. BRAMBL: Well, the van was appropriate forthat road and the conditions, and I would point out thatwhen the agent had --QUESTION: Well, if it's appropriate, if it's --it's also appropriate to go on a paved highway, I take it.MS. BRAMBL: Well, sure, but --QUESTION: I mean, why would you go up thisvery winding road to a place that you can get to much morequickly by going up a paved highway?MS. BRAMBL: It might be a -- a matter ofpreference and -- and taste. But these areas arebeautiful and --QUESTION: Well, you know, all of these factors th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC -- as Justice Breyer suggested, we're not saying that theywould prove guilt beyond a reasonable doubt or that theywould amount to probable cause. But all we're talkingabout is reasonable suspicion. MS. BRAMBL: But it isn't suspicious for afamily from Douglas to use a road that leads right fromDouglas, that start out -- that starts out miles paved,to go through a beautiful area up to perhaps ChiricahuaMonument or some of the areas along there on the --QUESTION: Yes. You can't -- it's obviouslynothing criminal. But what -- what did the respondentsay, that he was going to meet somebody there? MS. BRAMBL: That's correct.QUESTION: What's -- how does that tie in withgoing to a recreational area?MS. BRAMBL: Well -- well, it really doesn'tbecause we know that he was involved in illegal activity,but that's the hindsight of what the officer found afterthe stop. And the -- the --QUESTION: Would you comment on a -- on a phaseof the case that keeps puzzling me? The -- the sensors onthe road. It must be that the -- that there was somesuspicion on every vehicle that went up here because Iguess the first sensor that was triggered caused theofficer to -- to go over and take a look at the vehicle, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC and that happened rarely enough, so you make a specialexamination of every vehicle that trips the sensor. Andthen if they trip the second sensor, that's -- they'redoubly suspicious. And how -- how relevant is that in thewhole picture? MS. BRAMBL: Well -- well, I think what'simportant to recognize is that when you look at the maps,there aren't too many roads that lead anywhere fromDouglas because it's right on the border. So, there's themain road, the paved one, that the district court that Mr.Arvizu should have taken, and then there's this dirt road,the unpaved one, which is quite well-maintained, and theyhave sensors on that to catch all the cars that avoid thecheckpoint. But my point is that every road that leads awayfrom the border is suspicious to some degree and can belabeled that way. It happened to be --QUESTION: It is particularly suspicious ifthere's a much more rapid route available, rapid andcomfortable. If you got three kids in the car, yougenerally don't want a bumpy road. MS. BRAMBL: Well, they were going to miles per hour. QUESTION: I know. MS. BRAMBL: And there was no testimony that the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC car was flying -- the van was flying all over the place,which -- which tells me -- and the pictures bear it out --is that this wasn't -- it was a dirt road and it was in a-- a fairly isolated area, not full of houses and -- andwhatnot. But this was a decent road.QUESTION: It's not only an isolated area, butthe testimony was that the people who normally used theroad were locals, ranchers or others, that it was not aroad frequently traveled by families. MS. BRAMBL: However, the -- that was thetestimony by the Border Patrol agent.QUESTION: Right. MS. BRAMBL: The investigator from our officetestified that this road was used and enjoyed by all kindsof families. The Chiricahuas are a beautiful area. There are a number of areas within them that -- that arevisited by people from all over, and because they'rebasically in the -- in the residents of Douglas' backyard, people from Douglas frequent that area. So, wedon't have a record as to how many sensor hits turn out tobe smugglers, how many turn out to be ranchers, and howmany turn out to be people from Douglas visiting the area.QUESTION: But we do have a record that suggeststhat every time somebody trips the sensor, they go out andtake a look at them. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MS. BRAMBL: That's true. QUESTION: Yes. MS. BRAMBL: And -- and it would be a shame if-- if every family on a road like that or on that road ina minivan on a holiday would be subject to heightenedscrutiny just because this happens to be a road wheresmugglers sometimes use it. And --QUESTION: Is there any indication there everhas been such a family? I mean, I imagine if there werean innocent family that happened to accidentally come froman area where there is a lot of smuggling, that doesn't --you know, not everybody is a smuggler in such an area. They drive with their family just for recreation milesout of the way. Their children wave oddly. (Laughter.) QUESTION: They screech to a halt, and therethey were, stopped. I -- I guess they would be sort ofoutraged and there might be some publicity about it. Hasthere been such a --MS. BRAMBL: Well, one of the problems with --with Fourth Amendment issues is that the vast majority ofinnocent people that are protected by the Fourth Amendmentoften remain silent when they are subjected to arbitraryor -- or random stops. QUESTION: I'd feel much more sympathetic to -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC to that person than -- than I would to your client whose-- whose argument essentially is, yes, I was indeed asmuggler, but -- and he suspected me to be a smuggler andhe turned out to be right. But the suspicion was notaccurate. I don't understand that. Should we give anyweight to the fact that he turned out to be right? Doesthat -- does that have any bearing on whether thesuspicion was reasonable or not? MS. BRAMBL: It doesn't. In fact, if we hadthat kind of test, then we would have no way to litigatereasonable suspicion issues because the only way we get tocourt --QUESTION: I'm not saying it's conclusive. I'mjust saying, you know, I'm -- I'm more inclined to findthat the Border Patrol agent who stops a smuggler had areasonable suspicion than I am to find that a BorderPatrol agent who stops a -- a happy family out on outinghad a reasonable suspicion.MS. BRAMBL: Well, the problem is there weren'treally any factors or --QUESTION: How would one know about the stops ofsomeone who is a perfectly law-abiding citizen? Nobody ispressing charges against them. Quite the contrary. Andvery few of them would bother with a Bivens action giventhe qualified immunity. So, we don't hear from those th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC people. And I thought the whole idea of the FourthAmendment, frankly, is that you have to protect the crooksbecause if you don't protect them, then the innocent, thelaw-abiding people will lose their protection. MS. BRAMBL: That's exactly right. The -- theFourth Amendment protects all of the law-abiding people,and it seems like Terry struck a balance. You -- you canstop people when you have reasonable suspicion, but that'sthe floor below which you cannot go because otherwiseyou're casting in a large universe of -- of innocent, law-abiding citizens who are going to be stopped. And they'rethe people that we're concerned about in this litigation.And obviously our client is not a sympatheticfigure because he was doing something wrong. But all ofthe objective factors that were available to the agentpointed not to a smuggler running dope or aliens, butinstead to a family that was on an outing on a -- a lovelyday on a -- a very scenic area. All of the factors that the Ninth Circuit foundhad some level of suspicion, the fact that it was aminivan, the fact that it was a road that could be used bysmugglers and could be used to avoid the sensor, and thefact that it was minutes before a Border Patrol shiftchange -- all those are really just the setting. When youget to the individualized factors that were listed, those th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC factors are the ones that fall short. QUESTION: Well, but just before the shiftchange is an individualized factor.MS. BRAMBL: Well --QUESTION: I mean, we're not saying that anytimesomeone comes along this road it's suspicious. We'resaying it's suspicious just before the shift change.MS. BRAMBL: Well, it's certainly minutesbefore a shift change when perhaps, depending on where theagents are out in the field, some of them may be returningback. But it -- it would seem inappropriate to say,families, you better find out when Border Patrol shiftchanges are because otherwise you won't -- you travel onthese roads, you're going to get stopped. And --QUESTION: Would you explain to me thesignificance of the shift change? I frankly didn't quiteunderstand. MS. BRAMBL: Well, the Border Patrol claims thatsmugglers, in general, are aware of when they changeshifts and --QUESTION: But what difference would it make --does that make? MS. BRAMBL: Well, the thought is that smugglerswould then think they're getting by because all of theagents are at the -- at the station. The truth of it is, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC we see this factor so often throughout the -- thepublished cases, that it seems a strategy, if it is one,that does not work because --QUESTION: But the idea would be that the BorderPatrol agents were all at the checkpoint and wouldn't beout in the field to -- to be able to follow up on anyinformation from the sensor. MS. BRAMBL: That's exactly right. QUESTION: But I still don't understand becausethat would be at the moment of the change. minutesahead of time some will be coming in, and minutes aftersome will be going out. They're still within -- withintime to react to a sensor, which they did. MS. BRAMBL: Well, sure.QUESTION: It still really puzzles.MS. BRAMBL: And that's the point we were ableto make in the -- in the record that the -- the court ofappeals reviewed, which is that when -- exactly when shiftchange would occur and when the agent --QUESTION: Thank you, Ms. Brambl.MS. BRAMBL: Thank you. QUESTION: Mr. Schlick, you have minutes left.REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF AUSTIN C. SCHLICKON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERMR. SCHLICK: Mr. Chief Justice, unless the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Court has further questions, we submit that the judgmentof the court of appeals should be reversed. QUESTION: Tell me. Explain to me again why theshift change is so significant. (Laughter.) MR. SCHLICK: Certainly, Justice Stevens. The-- the testimony was that agents who are out in the fieldwill, as the : p.m. shift change approached, head backto --QUESTION: Right.MR. SCHLICK: -- the checkpoint on I-. Thatdrive would take perhaps minutes, perhaps a half hour,perhaps as much as an hour, depending on where they were.So, during that period, a Border Patrol agent who was,let's say, stationed on Leslie Canyon Road, supervisingthe road, would be driving back. QUESTION: He'd be driving back, but at the sametime the sensors are working. If the sensor is triggered,they tell him -- they say, turn around and go back, whichis what happened to this guy. I just don't understand it.MR. SCHLICK: That's true. And Justice Stevens,you may be thinking more clearly than smugglers. Whatsmugglers see is the absence of Border Patrol vehicles,and they take that as an indication that --QUESTION: Does the record tell us whether it th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC was generally known that there were sensors on this road?MR. SCHLICK: The record does not. It does notreveal that, no, Your Honor.QUESTION: I had the feeling it might be adifferent case if they just put a sign up saying,strangers in this area are subject to stop if they're not-- you know, if they're not local people. We got sensorsthat will catch you. But if they gave them notice, Iwonder if it would be a different case. MR. SCHLICK: Certainly, Justice Stevens, thesmugglers are well aware of the location of the checkpointand the route to -- to evade it.QUESTION: But not of the sensors you think.MR. SCHLICK: I -- I can't answer that question.The record doesn't reveal. QUESTION: Are there -- is there anything in therecord that suggests at all, or anywhere, that there areother -- there are families, that sometimes people do usethis for picnics? They like sightseeing. They want to goup there on this old dirt road. Is there any -- anyevidence on that at all? MR. SCHLICK: The record does include evidencethat the recreation areas off of Rucker Canyon Road -- ifrespondent --QUESTION: Well, that's one of them, but there's th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC one further to the north. So, somebody who likes drivingon old dirt roads, as some people do, might take theirfamily, drive up there, going further to the north. So, Iwonder what the state of the -- any evidence at all inthere that -- that families who are not smugglers do usethis road once a week, once a day, once a month. Anything?MR. SCHLICK: No, Justice Breyer. The -- thetestimony was that that recreation area to the northexisted. There was no testimony that any particularnumber of -- of families do, in fact, use these roads. The testimony to the contrary was that ranchers and ForestService personnel and the Border Patrol itself used theseroads. The district court's finding on page a of thepetition appendix was that this route was not a logicalroute to get up to the Chiricahua National Monument.CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: Thank you, Mr.Schlick. The case is submitted.(Whereupon, at : a.m., the case in theabove-entitled matter was submitted.) th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC 