 IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XAKOS SWIERKIEWICZ, Petitioner ::v. : No. -SOREMA, N.A. :- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XWashington, D.C.Tuesday, January , The above-entitled matter came on for oralargument before the Supreme Court of the United States at: a.m.APPEARANCES:HAROLD I. GOODMAN, ESQ., Philadelphia, Pennsylvania; onbehalf of the Petitioner.JEFFREY P. MINEAR, ESQ., Assistant to the SolicitorGeneral, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; onbehalf of the United States, as amicus curiae,supporting the Petitioner.LAUREN R. BRODY, ESQ., New York, New York; on behalf ofthe Respondent. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC C O N T E N T SORAL ARGUMENT OF HAROLD I. GOODMAN, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioner ORAL ARGUMENT OFJEFFREY P. MINEAR, ESQ.On behalf of the United States, as amicus curiae,supporting the Petitioner ORAL ARGUMENT OFLAUREN R. BRODY, ESQ.On behalf of the Respondent REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OFHAROLD I. GOODMAN, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioner PAGE th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC P R O C E E D I N G S(: a.m.)CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: We'll hear argumentnext in Number -, Akos Swierkiewicz v. Sorema.Mr. Goodman.ORAL ARGUMENT OF HAROLD I. GOODMANON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERMR. GOODMAN: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court:This c case brings up for review a fairlystraightforward but nonetheless essential question as itapplies to Federal practice and procedure, namely, whetheror not notice pleading is sufficient with compliance withRule (a)(), or whether or not the rule requires someelement of fact pleading to overcome a Rule (b)()motion to dismiss. It arises in the context of a titleVII national origin and an age discrimination case underthe ADEA. Mr. Swierkiewicz was fired from his job bySorema, his former employer. He brought suit in thedistrict court claiming that that firing was based uponhis national origin -- he's Hungarian -- and his age. Hewas about at the time.He pled that there was no valid reason for hisdischarge. He pointed to the fact that he himself hadincurred a history over years of discrimination based on th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC his national origin and his age, coming from , when hewas demoted from his position as chief underwritingofficer, through and including two successive years wherehe was the victim of continuous discrimination by beingexcluded from meetings, business decisions, and isolatedand denied any career growth.The Second Circuit, affirming the SouthernDistrict of New York, concluded that conclusoryallegations of discrimination, what it referred to asnaked allegations, were insufficient. Some facts had tobe proved, proved via a complaint, because it adopted as apleading standard this Court's elements of a prima faciecase in McDonnell Douglas v. Green.QUESTION: You don't deny that some facts haveto be stated, do you?MR. GOODMAN: I do not.QUESTION: I mean, can I come in just with acomplaint that says, I have been unlawfully discriminatedagainst by my employer, who is -- and I name the employer.MR. GOODMAN: I think if you did not identifythe adverse action, there would not be sufficientinformation alleged to be able to sustain a motion fordismissal. However, even in that --QUESTION: That was contained here? They --MR. GOODMAN: Absolutely. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: You would have to also allege,wouldn't you, that you were discriminated against becauseof your race, or because of your nationality?MR. GOODMAN: Absolutely.QUESTION: And you again say that was done here.MR. GOODMAN: Five times in the complaint. Fivetimes, so that while I absolutely agree that sufficientinformation must be pled, a) to put a defendant on notice,what is this claim all about, so I can begin theinvestigative work of defending it and responding via aresponsive pleading, and ultimately so that the case canhave res judicata effect so that we know what the claim isthat normally, as this Court's precedents unanimously andconsistently have said, notice pleading, and moreparticularly, simplified notice pleading is more thanenough.So we contrast what the Second Circuit did withthree critical barometers. The first and most criticalare these Court's precedents, starting, of course, withConley in , a case brought under the Railway Labor Actclaiming that the union did not fairly represent theinterests of African American conductors and porters. AsJustice Black, writing for the Court, said, theallegations were entirely general, but in response to theunion's argument that more specificity, some specificity th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC had to be alleged, the Court wrote, the law requiresunions to represent minorities on the same basis asnonminorities. That --QUESTION: Mr. Goodman, why do you start withConley v. Gibson rather than Dioguardi v. Durning. Ithought that was always the classic.MR. GOODMAN: Dioguardi is my favorite case,simply because it has been authored by then Judge andlater Chief Judge Clark, who was the reporter for thisCourt's advisory committee. It was decided in , andthe argument the Government made in opposition to thecomplaint, which was a pro se complaint, was simply thatsome facts had to be alleged to support the plaintiff'sclaims that the Government a) had undersold his medicinaltonic, and b) had lost two cases of his medicinal tonic,to which Judge Clark said, no, the time for ascertainingthe facts under the new Federal system, then years old,was through discovery, and if the case was nonmeritorious,through summary judgment, but it's enough that this pro selitigant simply said, you deprived me of my goods, youundersold my property. That is the leading case and,indeed, in Conley --QUESTION: That's the leading case? I wouldthink you might say a case from this Court were a leadingcase -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. GOODMAN: Well --QUESTION: -- as opposed to one from the SecondCircuit.(Laughter.)MR. GOODMAN: I do, indeed. I do, indeed, andthat's why I started with Conley, but it is interestingand, I think, prophetic, that footnote of Conley citesDioguardi with approval.Now, in Conley the Court rebuffed unanimouslythe claim that some specificity had to be embossed uponthe complaint. years later, in Scheuer, again aunanimous court then through Chief Justice Burger rebuffedclaims by Ohio that the National Guard and the Governor ofOhio, who were defendants, were sued on a damageclaim with only the bare allegation that the NationalGuard had done wrong and was responsible for the deaths ofthe plaintiffs in that case, rebuffing unanimously theargument that some facts had be pled. The Court turnedaside that holding and that case of the Sixth Circuit and,indeed, said, you do not need to do it in a complaint. Notice pleading, as we pointed out in Conley, is more thansufficient. You will have sufficient time to flesh outissues, to learn facts in discovery.Had that been the end of the trilogy, it wouldhave been enough, but, as this Court knows, just years th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ago, years ago, in in Leatherman, again confrontedwith a similar issue in a municipal liability case,the Court had to decide whether or not some facts wereessential to a failure-to-train case under Canton. The decision of the Sixth Circuit, which was accepted onreview, had said in no uncertain terms the complaint herealleges no facts, none, to support the failure-to-traincase. In response, the Court, through the Chief Justice,unanimously said no. We meant what we said in Conley. Rule (a)() is sufficient if a plaintiff providesinformation that puts a defendant on notice of the claims. That's all that's required.If, today, we had to revise the rules there is aprocess for doing that and that might result, for purposes, in a revision to Rule (a)() such as that(a)(), which now only requires particularity in cases offraud and mistake, might have a third entry forparticularity purposes, a action, for example, orhere. If, upon proper review and the process of thisCourt's committee and its adoption of rules and those byCongress, it was felt that a title VII case or an age caseought to also require particularity, that would be thetime and that would be the place to do it.But I submit that there are two substantialother reasons for reversal here, and they are bedded in th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC the Federal rules and have not changed in six decades, andthey emanate from Rule , the rule, scarcely utilized,but is important in this case, which simply says theforms, the official forms that are attached to the rules,are sufficient for Federal pleading. In particular, Rule,or a Form deals with goods sold and delivered. It's onesentence. Between June of and December of theplaintiff had goods for which the defendant wasresponsible, wherefore clause, prayer for relief. That wasdeemed sufficient.Official form , a three-paragraph complaintalleging negligence. A defendant, driving a vehicle onBoylston Street in Boston, committed negligence. Injuriesresult --drove.QUESTION: Negligently drove. NegligentlyMR. GOODMAN: Negligently drove, doesn't dealwith what the standard of care was, whether it wasbreached, whether there was or was not causation.QUESTION: Mr. Goodman, if --QUESTION: It gave a date. It gave a date, too,didn't it?MR. GOODMAN: It did.QUESTION: Okay.MR. GOODMAN: As we did here. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: Yes.QUESTION: If the judge said, okay, thiscomplaint measures up to Conley v. Goodman, but I don'twant to allow extensive discovery fishing expeditions,what can the judge do to curtail the pretrial proceeding?MR. GOODMAN: Rule gives the district courtconsiderable discretion to isolate issues, to isolatediscovery. If, for example, a Rix-type defense wasraised, which isn't true in this case, on statute oflimitations ground -- a professor denied tenure. Thecomplaint doesn't mention anything about the date thetenure was denied, but does say the date employment ended. The University of Pennsylvania determines that we knowwhen the tenure decision was made. It's not pled in thecomplaint.At a Rule conference it requests the trialcourt to isolate that issue, allow discovery to be takenon that issue, and allow summary judgment to follow onthat issue. If it's granted, the case is over. If it'sdenied, the case proceeds on full merits. There arenumerous arsenal of remedies that district courts have toboth curtail --QUESTION: Mr. Goodman, may I ask you thisquestion: Is one of the things the district judge can do,is -- you refer on page -- in paragraph of the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC complaint to a particular memorandum which your clientsent to the other side, and the other side filed anaffidavit saying, here's the memorandum. They put thewhole memorandum in. May the judge review that memorandumand take it into account in ruling on the motion?MR. GOODMAN: Uh -- excuse me. Not in thecontext, I think, of this case, for two reasons. One, itwas an ex parte submission. The affidavit of defensecounsel says, I received a request from the districtcourt. Plaintiff was never notified of it. I thought itwas odd that it was made of defense counsel, so there wasno --QUESTION: Supposing you did give notice and youdidn't challenge the genuineness of the -- of that paper,.could the judge look at it in deciding the case?MR. GOODMAN: I think in some instances, yes,but not --QUESTION: In this instance.MR. GOODMAN: Not in this, because it raises allsorts of questions of credibility and inference.Mr. Swierkiewicz, for example, referred to ahostile work environment. He work -- he indicated --QUESTION: Well, I'm assuming the judge wouldresolve all instances in favor of the plaintiff. If thejudge did that, could the judge look at the affidavit in th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ruling on the motion to -- I mean, look at the paperthat's referred to in the complaint and ruling on thesufficiency of the complaint?MR. GOODMAN: I think so. I think so. I thinkit depends, though, on the substance of the document. I'massuming that authenticity, for example, is not indispute. I'm assuming that all inferences in the documenton a motion to dismiss are going to be accorded to theplaintiff and not to the defendant. Assuming that, andalso assuming that the underlying document is essential tothe case, then, I think, under the case law it may beconsidered by the district court.QUESTION: Well, it must be essential, if yourefer to it in your complaint.MR. GOODMAN: Yes. That's why I answered thequestion yes.QUESTION: In the Rule conference can thejudge say, I've looked at this pleading, and it passesunder the Federal rule, but I think discovery would beexpedited if you made it much, much more complete. I wantto file an amended complaint setting forth the allegationsand the reasons for your injury in much more detail. Canhe do that?MR. GOODMAN: I think it is permissible, butlargely an abuse of discretion if the court has stated, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC which was implicit or explicit, Justice Kennedy, in yourquestion, that the complaint satisfies Rule (a)(). Ifthe complaint were deemed so vague and ambiguous, to quoteprecisely rule (e), a defendant could make that motionto flush out much more factual, or more information, orregarding either liability or damages, but I would sayexcept in the most egregious case a sua sponte directionby a district court who has said, it is my view that yourcomplaint satisfies (a)(), it would be precisely whatRule (a)() and the simplified notice pleadingrequirements were intended to avoid, which was a lot oflitigation up front to avoid a disposition on the merits.QUESTION: So then the other option is for thejudge to allow discovery to go forward but on a limitedbasis and keep control of it that way?MR. GOODMAN: Absolutely and, of course, therevisions to the rules, both in terms, for example, of thenumber of interrogatories, the number of depositions, havegone a considerable way towards that effect in any event,but the district court has considerable latitude to add tothat.QUESTION: Mr. Goodman, I think this case in away puts notice pleading to the test. In the formcomplaint that you referred to involving an automobileaccident, you know, ordinarily automobile accidents don't th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC happen unless there's been some negligence on the part ofone party or the other, but you get hit with a car, andyou know, have reason to suspect there was somenegligence.But people are fired, people are not promotedall the time, without any necessary implication ofwrongdoing, and something seems wrong that when you'redismissed you can say, I was dismissed because I'm aHungarian, without having any evidence whatever, and canbring a complaint and then use the courts essentially asan investigatory arm to find out whether you indeed dohave any basis for complaining. I think it just seems --MR. GOODMAN: I think there are two responses tothat. First of all, if the complaint is frivolous orbought in bad faith, as an officer of the court theplaintiff's law him or herself would be exposed todamages, so there's got to be some sort of good faith atthe outset in making that kind of allegation.QUESTION: So the lawyer must know somethingmore than the mere fact that I was fired, and I think Iwas fired because I was a Hungarian. Presumably thelawyer has to ask the client, why do you think you werefired because you were a Hungarian? What makes you thinkthat was the reason?MR. GOODMAN: I think you're -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: And if you can tell that to thelawyer, why can't you put it in the complaint?MR. GOODMAN: The question is whether or not youmust put it in the complaint, and for purposes of thisCourt's precedents, and again I come back to Conley andScheuer and Leatherman, the only way that they must be putin the case, with all due respect, is if Rule (a)() wereamended, or Rule (b) were amended, and if --QUESTION: You're certainly not required toplead the evidence in support of your charge.MR. GOODMAN: Exactly, and that was my lastpoint, and I'll end with it, and that is that the decisionof the district court here in effect conflated elements ofevidence with elements of pleading.McDonnell Douglas v. Green was a recognition ofwhat we all know to be true. Employers do not look you inthe eye and say you're too old, I'm firing you, you'reHungarian, you are black, you are a woman, you aredisabled. It doesn't work that way. That's whatMcDonnell Douglas did. It said, we can find an indirectway, circumstantially, to come to the same result. Thisis what a plaintiff needs do to overcome summary judgmentor to prevail at trial.The Second Circuit, unlike every circuit thathas considered the issue, namely, The D.C., the Third, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC the Sixth, the Seventh, the Eighth, and the Ninth, madeyou put the evidence at the outset of the case and if Imight, Justice Scalia, much of that evidence is not knownto the plaintiff at the outset.As this Court has held just last term in Reeves,the key to the evidence frequently is in the hands of thedefendant: Who replaced Mr. Swierkiewicz? Why was hefired instantly, on the spot? Who made that decision? You need discovery for that.QUESTION: You say some of it must be known tothe plaintiff. It's just not enough that I'm Hungarian,I'm fired. I just can't come into a lawyer and say, suethis guy because I'm Hungarian and he fired me.MR. GOODMAN: I agree with that.QUESTION: And I think he fired me because I'mHungarian. You have to find something else.MR. GOODMAN: And this complaint pleads far morethan that. This complaint pleads years of ongoingcontinuous discrimination based on national origin andbased on age.Now, I would say that if it said I was firedbecause I'm Hungarian, because I'm , gives the date inApril , identifies the individual who fired him,Francois Chavel, identifies five other people who werefired for cause and got substantial severance benefits, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC that that satisfied any kind of notice pleading ever setup by this Court. We did more than we had to.For those reasons --QUESTION: I think last was not even necessary. That to the last was not --MR. GOODMAN: Correct. For those reasons werespectfully request the Court to reverse. Thank you.QUESTION: Very well, Mr. Goodman.Mr. Minear.ORAL ARGUMENT OF JEFFREY P. MINEARON BEHALF OF THE UNITED STATES, AS AMICUS CURIAE,SUPPORTING THE PETITIONERMR. MINEAR: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice, andmay it please the Court:The court of appeals in this case clearly erredin ruling that the pleadings, in this case the complaint,were insufficient. The Court's -- this Court's ruling inConley v. Gibson makes clear that notice is what'sessential in the complaint. In this case, the complaintset forth a short and plain statement of the claim, and itindicated a request for relief.QUESTION: It was nine pages long, wasn't it?MR. MINEAR: Yes, it was.QUESTION: Can you necessarily say that's ashort statement? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. MINEAR: Well, obviously the length of thecomplaint will vary on the degree of complexity of thecase, but I think that simply underscores the fact thatthis complaint was more than ample in setting forth thenecessary elements of a complaint.What's important about the complaint in thiscase is, it did identify both the adverse action that wasinvolved and also allege that the adverse action was theproduct of a prohibited discrimination. That wassufficient to put the employer on notice of the basis forthe complaint, and provided a basis for relief if provedat trial.The Federal rules do not require that a partyinclude additional facts that go beyond this, includingwhat the employer calls here an inference ofdiscrimination. Rule makes clear that elements ofconditions of mind, for instance, can be averredgenerally, and that includes matters such as intent andmotive, and the Federal rules certainly do not requirethat the parties set forth all the elements of a primafacie case under McDonnell Douglas v. Green.As petitioner's counsel has pointed out, thatruling of the Second Circuit basically confuses therequirements for pleading a complaint, and the evidentiaryburdens that a plaintiff would bear at trial in proving a th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC disparate treatment case in a situation wherecircumstantial evidence was being used.QUESTION: Suppose a person simply feels -- he'sbeen fired, and he thinks his work was good, and theemployer said it was bad, so he thinks, they couldn't havefired me because my work was bad. It's good. What reasoncould there have been? Well, I sense an anti-Hungarianatmosphere in this office. That's it. All right, so theywrite that into the complaint right there.Now, you see, I did good work, he said it wasbad work, he fired me, and I think it's because I'm aHungarian, all right. Good faith. He believes it.Now --automatically get discovery and costs,quite a lot of money?MR. MINEAR: You certainly do notautomatically --QUESTION: How could a judge refuse discovery onthat -- on these --MR. MINEAR: Very simply, the complaint in thissituation presents an issue of fact. Was there, or wasthere not discrimination, and the Federal rulescontemplated the mechanism for resolving that issue wassummary judgment. In this case, the defendant's counselis free to bring a motion --QUESTION: But we're talking about discovery. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC How does the judge refuse discovery in my case?MR. MINEAR: It may be that a complete refusalof discovery is not appropriate, but what's important hereis that Rule , which deals with pretrial conference,coupled with Rule , regulating discovery, and Rule ,dealing with --QUESTION: So then, what the Second Circuit isactually saying is, since the judge can't refuse discoveryin my case, let's go back and look and see what the causeof action is, and the cause of action is such that my casedoesn't really fall within it. I mean, I'm trying tofigure out what they're driving at. It must be somethinglike that.MR. MINEAR: Well, I think that the problem theSecond Circuit discerned is, as Justice Scalia pointedout, it's very easy to allege discrimination and, in fact,it can sometimes be very difficult to prove it as well. The Federal rules deal with the situation by providing amechanism, by providing a procedure. The complaint isneeded to put the parties on notice of what the --QUESTION: Does the complaint, Mr. Minear,require you under the Federal rules to put in all theelements of a cause of action in order to survive a(b)() motion?MR. MINEAR: Your Honor, no, it does not, and in th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC fact this was one of the aims of the advisory committee in, when we revised the rule, to get away from the codepractice of requiring the facts of the cause of action allbe pleaded. That led itself --QUESTION: That's why these rules religiouslyavoid determining cause of action. You do not have toplead the elements of a cause of action.MR. MINEAR: That is exactly right, and I thinkthat principle is clearly enough established to beHornbook law. We cite a selection of the cases that dealwith this on page of our brief.QUESTION: May I ask you one question? Inparagraph of the complaint, they refer to thismemorandum as outlining the plaintiff's grievances andrequesting -- outlining grievances, then the memorandumwas put into the record by the defendant and the judgereviewed the memorandum and thought it didn't really showany discrimination. He said at oral argument plaintiff'scounsel concedes that there's nothing in the memorandumfrom which an inference of age or national origindiscrimination can be made, and if that were true, wouldthat provide any basis for a (b)() motion?MR. MINEAR: Well, if I can break down thisquestion and answer it in several parts, first of all weagree it may well have been abuse of discretion for the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC district court to have considered this memorandum ratherthan converting the motion to summary judgment wherequestions of fact and -- rather than having to take allthe inferences, giving all of the inferences to theplaintiff, the facts could be waived with regard to themeaning of that memorandum.We think that if the memorandum in fact providedno basis for this suit whatsoever and it was the onlybasis on which the plaintiff had premised is claim, thenthat might, in fact, be fatal to the complaint, but that'snot the situation here and, in fact, there are inferencesthat can be drawn from that memorandum, such as thereference to a glass ceiling, that could be read favorablyto the plaintiff to support his cause of action.QUESTION: You'd have to allow discovery anywaybefore you could rule under (b)(), right?MR. MINEAR: Under the circumstances ofconsidering this memorandum, I think it makes it verydifficult not being included in discovery, and I thatmeans that it should be converted to a summary judgmentmotion under Rule (b)().QUESTION: Yes. That's the difference,basically, between a (b)() motion and a motion forsummary judgment, is that the (b)() is just on thebasis of the pleadings, and the summary judgment is, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC presumably you can consider affidavits and depositionsthat are taken outside the pleadings.MR. MINEAR: That's exactly right, Your Honor.QUESTION: That's exactly what I meant, that youcouldn't get rid of the case on the basis of summaryjudgment without allowing discovery, so there's basicallyno way to prevent being subjected to discovery on thebasis of a claim by somebody who just suspects, with noreason to suspect, that he has been fired because he'sHungarian.MR. MINEAR: I think that's not, strictlyspeaking, true in this sense, that the way Rule isstructured is that if the defendant makes the motion forsummary judgment the plaintiff is under an obligation tocome forward with the facts sufficient to indicate there'sa triable issue. If the plaintiff does not have thosefacts, it can request discovery at that point.QUESTION: Well, what is it that -- how wouldyou describe the standard that's binding on the plaintiffand his attorney for firing the complaint, going back toJustice Breyer's question? You say, you know, I thinkthere could be something wrong here. I'd like todiscover. Is that enough?MR. MINEAR: No, I don't think it's enough.QUESTION: It has to be well-founded suspicion. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Is there some verbal formulation that floats around thelegal world, in the legal world that helps me?MR. MINEAR: I think the benchmark for thecomplaint is whether it provides the employer fair noticeof the action. That's how the complaint --QUESTION: What is the standard of confidence,the standard of belief that the plaintiff and the attorneymust have before starting the action?MR. MINEAR: I think that's set forth in Rule, and that requires a good faith belief --QUESTION: A good faith belief?MR. MINEAR: Yes, a good faith belief that thereare facts to support the action.Now, it may often be the case that the facts arenot --QUESTION: Well, you could have a good faithbelief that is entirely erroneous. I mean, I am sure thatI was fired because I'm Hungarian. I don't know a singlefact, but by God, I really believe that there are somefacts. Is that enough -- and he conveys that to hislawyer.MR. MINEAR: Well, this is the important rolethat the lawyer and the officer of the court plays inpolicing these efforts. The lawyer himself must make aninvestigation. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: Well, doesn't he have to investigatethe state of mind of the plaintiff to determine is bonafides, or does he -- is there some objective standardimplicit in the good faith, there have to be someobjective basis for the good faith belief?MR. MINEAR: Well, I'm not sure if we can fine-tune the standard here to that degree. I think theimportant point is that these facts, these issues can bepromptly tested through summary judgment, and summaryjudgment is designed to deal summarily with those caseswhich are not substantial, that are not substantial.There may be a requirement of some level ofdiscovery, but the district court, who is -- has the toolsavailable to structure discovery, can limit discovery tothose issues that are in fact -- provide the --QUESTION: Your client says, you know, I cantell by looking at people whether they're lying or not,and I think the employer lied to me. I just can tell.MR. MINEAR: For a lawyer, I think that would bean insufficient basis on which to go forward.QUESTION: Mr. Minear, what is the status intoday's trial where -- it's a long time ago, but we usedto make -- see a lot of complaints where facts werealleged on information and belief, and therefore theywould set them out very particularly but not necessarily th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC conclusively, but I don't see any information and beliefallegations in this complaint. Is that approach usedtoday at all?MR. MINEAR: It continues to be used, YourHonor.Thank you.QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. Minear.Ms. Brody, we'll hear from you.ORAL ARGUMENT OF LAUREN R. BRODYON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTMS. BRODY: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it pleasethe Court:This case presents the question of whether aplaintiff must allege an inference of discrimination inorder to stay the claim under title VII in the AgeDiscrimination and Employment Act. The petitioner herealleged that his employment was terminated on account ofhis national origin and age. The district court and thecourt of appeals both found that this allegation wasinsufficient to sustain a claim, and that petitionerhad --QUESTION: May I ask you right at the outset,because I want to get to -- if the complaint itself,without illumination from the memorandum that you put in,was sufficient, would he lose because you create a th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC different atmosphere from looking at the memorandum?MS. BRODY: Your Honor, no. The memorandum --QUESTION: So we can look at the case withoutlooking at the memorandum?MS. BRODY: You can look at the case withoutlooking at the memorandum, because the complaint allegesthat the memorandum outlined the petitioner's grievanceswith the company and requested a severance package. Thereis nothing from that allegation which suggests that therewas any kind of discrimination, and that is sufficient inorder for the court --QUESTION: is not enough by itself, but thereare other allegations in there to at least raise aninference, I think.MS. BRODY: There are no other allegations inthis complaint that raise an inference. What thepetitioner has alleged here is generally that he wasHungarian, that he was a Hungarian -- that he was ofHungarian heritage --QUESTION: No, paragraph alleges plaintiff'sage and national origin were motivating factors inSorema's decision to terminate his employment. That'spretty direct.MS. BRODY: Justice Stevens, that's conclusion. That is not permitted by the Federal Rules of Civil th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Procedure or by this Court's decisions, including Conleyv. Gibson, which said that in order to provide fair noticethe plaintiff must provide in the complaint a statement ofthe claims that gives fair notice of what the claims is,as well as the grounds on which -- QUESTION: Well, why isn't that fair notice, Ms.Brody? He claimed the employer discriminated against himbecause of his nationality and because of his age.MS. BRODY: Yes, he does, Your Honor, butthat's -- Mr. Chief Justice, but that's a conclusion, andthat is not sufficient under Federal rules.QUESTION: What do you mean by saying it's aconclusion?MS. BRODY: It's a conclusion that does not setforth what Rule requires, and Rule says that you haveto indicate what the grounds on which the claim isbased --QUESTION: Ms. Brody, why is it any more or lessof a conclusion, any different from negligently drove? Form says that's enough, just say negligent -- tell thetime and place and say, defendant negligently drove. Youdon't have to say whether he was speeding, or went out ofhis line, or anything like that. You just say negligent. Isn't that a conclusion, that he drove in a manner thatwas negligent? What facts -- flush that out. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MS. BRODY: Your Honor, if you look at thatcomplaint, that Form complaint, which allegesnegligence, it sets forth all the elements of the claim. It alleges a duty. The defendant was driving on a highwayand had an obligation to do so with care. It alleges abreach of that duty, which is that he drove --QUESTION: I don't see that -- what you addedmaybe so, but the form doesn't say that. It says, givesthe place, and it says, negligently drove.MS. BRODY: Those are reasonably inferences thatcan be drawn from a very simple negligence action.QUESTION: Well, surely the same inferencescould be drawn here, couldn't they? It seems to me thisis more precise, these allegations, than the allegationsJustice Ginsburg just described about the simple wordnegligently.MS. BRODY: Mr. Chief Justice, I don't believethat's the case, because in the negligence action when anindividual drives a car into another individual, it can beinferred that negligence was involved in that.QUESTION: You don't have to infer it. It saysit.MS. BRODY: It does say it, Your Honor, but inan employment situation, when an individual is terminated,individuals are terminated every day. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: Yes, but here he alleged that he wasterminated because of his nationality and because of hisage.MS. BRODY: There is nothing that connects hisnationality and his age with the termination of hisemployment.QUESTION: Well, he -- but he says that he wasterminated for that reason. I think if you want to havehim spell it out in more detail, you're asking that heplead evidence, which I don't think is required.MS. BRODY: Mr. Chief Justice, we are not askingthat a plaintiff plead evidence. We agree that that isnot appropriate at the pleading stage, and a complaintdoes not have to contain any evidence. All that acomplaint has to contain are allegations based on theplaintiff's good faith belief that he was terminatedbecause the circumstances indicated that there wasdiscrimination.All that the plaintiff has to allege is someinference of discrimination, and that inference is not theemployer's reason for the termination. There aresurrounding circumstances that occur when an employee isterminated. It does not occur in a vacuum, and this Courthas identified various circumstances under which theinference arises. It arises when one employee is treated th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC differently than another employee because of theirprotected class. It arises when --QUESTION: I thought there was a statement herethat other people who had been -- were not let go, peoplefor whom there was cause. wasn't there something to thateffect?MS. BRODY: Justice Ginsburg, there is nothingin connection with the termination of employment thatindicates that the petitioner was treated differently fromother employees. There were allegations that were maderelating to an act that occurred years later -- excuseme, years earlier, in , when the petitioner claimsthat he was demoted, and he makes various allegationsabout other individuals who were of differentnationalities, different citizenships, and different ages,but he does not connect any of those allegations to hissituation, which is being a United States citizen ofHungarian heritage.The problem is that those prior allegationsrelating to an act which occurred prior to his terminationand which are time-barred do not have any reference --QUESTION: But he can still use them to showthat is the mind set of the employer.It seems to me that you are asking to have factsalleged in this complaint which, like it or not, the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Federal rules don't require.MS. BRODY: Justice Ginsburg, I respectfullydisagree. We were not asking the petitioner to allegefacts. We were only asking him to make good faithallegations which would give rise to some inference ofdiscrimination.QUESTION: Sorry, then I'm confused, becauseI -- you don't -- an inference isn't the kind of thingthat you allege. An inference is the kind of thing thatyou make, so you must be saying he has to allege factsthat would give rise to an inference, or if you -- are yousaying that?MS. BRODY: That -- facts, factual allegations.QUESTION: That would -- you have -- he has toallege certain facts that would give rise to an inference,all right.MS. BRODY: That is correct.QUESTION: What he did allege was, he alleged asa matter of fact over years people who he alleges werefactually less qualified and were either younger or notHungarian obtained all kinds of advantages that he didnot, and then he was fired because of his grievances, anda fair reading is that is both a factual allegation, andgrievance refers to what he called -- said earlier in thecomplaint, so why don't those facts give rise to an th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC inference that his -- what he said was the conclusion?MS. BRODY: Those allegations import into thiscase a concept which has never been asserted, and that isthis continuing violation theory. The petitioner -- thereare two separate acts here. There is a demotion and atermination, and the petitioner is trying to link those bymaking the conclusory allegation that there was ongoingdiscrimination during this -year period, but this Courthas already held in Rix that a conclusory allegation likethat cannot link two separate acts.What we need to do is look at the circumstancesat the time of the termination of employment.QUESTION: Which case are you mentioning now?MS. BRODY: Rix v. Delaware State College.QUESTION: Was that a (b)() case?MS. BRODY: That was a (b)() case, YourHonor.QUESTION: And the complaint was heldinsufficient?MS. BRODY: The complaint was held insufficient,and this Court refused --QUESTION: Well, it was held to be time-barredbecause the relevant time was when he lost his seniority,rather than when he was terminated, and here you'rearguing that the only evidence of discrimination is that th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC during the or years before they treated the Frenchemployees better than the Hungarian employees, and it'sunreasonable to infer from that that the discharge wassimilarly motivated.MS. BRODY: That is correct.QUESTION: And they say it was, and so there'san issue of fact.MS. BRODY: But it's not a matte ofunreasonableness. It's a matter of, there's one act whichis time-barred, and there's a second act, and you couldnot link them, especially in this particular case, wherethe allegations relating to the so-called demotion aretotally directed to the demotion and don't carry over intothe termination of an employment.QUESTION: But if even one of them was a goodclaim, it shouldn't have been dismissed. Are you sayingthat neither the demotion nor the termination issufficiently pleaded?MS. BRODY: The demotion claim cannot beconsidered because it's time-barred. The petitioner didnot file an EEOC charge issue within days of that act,so that is something that is an unfortunate event inhistory, as has been stated by the Court in Rix, and itcannot be used to bolster a claim that occurred, or thatmight have arisen years later. The fact that an th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC employer, and we don't think he did, may have taken an actthat was discriminated, was discriminatory years priorto the act that is the subject matter of the complaint,doesn't mean that the second act is also discriminatory,and they cannot be combined and put together --QUESTION: Well, why not? I mean, it doesn'tmean, of course, that it is, but it is evidence that itis.MS. BRODY: Your Honor, in certain situationssuch as a harassment case where there is -- are continuingacts of discrimination that occur, that might beappropriate, but in a case like this, where separate anddiscrete acts are being alleged, and the first act wascompleted in -- nothing more happened after that --there is no reasonable basis for linking these two actstogether and basing the termination on the demotionallegations. In fact, to do so would really circumventthe statute of limitations, because it would permit aplaintiff to base a present claim on a time-barred claim,and that --QUESTION: Well, does he nowhere allege that hisfiring was because he was Hungarian, or because he was --because of his age?MS. BRODY: He makes the conclusory allegationsthat I was terminated because of my national origin and th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC age, but that does not -- that alone is not sufficient tosustain the claim, a claim, and that is what this Courthas stated in Conley, in which it emphasized that theplaintiff had to set forth the grounds on which the claimrests.I believe that this Court also has endorsed thatview in the other (b)() cases that it has considered,such as Rix, such as Sutton, which Justice O'Connor wentthrough and analyzed the statutory elements of the claimsto determine whether or not the claims had met them.QUESTION: What was lacking in Conley? What waslacking?MS. BRODY: There was nothing lacking in thecomplaint in Conley. In fact, if you look at it, italleges all the elements of the claim, and it does so on arather specific basis. It states in Conley that therewere positions that were purportedly abolished thatwere held by African Americans. The complaint then goeson to allege that Caucasians were hired to fill those positions. It then goes on to allege that the union didnot represent the plaintiffs in that case and did not tryto protect their jobs, and then it says there's aviolation of the statute.What the defendant was trying to do in Conleywas to get specific and particular information about what th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC provisions of the collective bargaining agreement wereviolated and other specific information which is notrequired, so that if you look at all of the complaintsthat have been considered by this Court and even by thecircuit courts, you see that each of those complaints aresufficient on their face and they contain more than enoughallegations to state the elements of the claims.QUESTION: But unfortunately you don't have anyin which we find a complaint insufficient because it doesnot contain that detail. I mean, that's what you need. Imean, you might well say all these cases in which we'veapproved going forward with the litigation stated a lotmore, but what you need is a case where we approvedgranting the (b)() motion because there was not enoughdetail.MS. BRODY: I --QUESTION: That's hard to find.MS. BRODY: I think the case that we have, thebest case that we have to refer to is the Sutton case,where the Court looked at each of the allegations of thecomplaint, determined whether or not the plaintiff wasdisabled, and refused to accept the conclusory allegationthat the plaintiff made that she was disabled.QUESTION: It wasn't because the allegationsweren't sufficiently detailed. It was because accepting th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC the truth of all the details set forth in the complaint,it didn't state what the Court regarded as a violation ofthe statutes.MS. BRODY: That's correct.QUESTION: I mean, that would be like saying inthis case, well, even if he were -- his age and nationalorigin were motivating factors in the decision, thatdoesn't violate the statute, you have to do somethingmore, and I suppose maybe you could argue that, thatmotivation isn't enough, it's got to be the sole cause, orsomething like that.MS. BRODY: Your Honor --QUESTION: There was plenty -- it isn't -- theSutton case was not an absence of detail in the complaint.MS. BRODY: And Your Honor, this is not a caseabout the absence of detail or specificity. This is acase about allegations being made giving rise to some sortof inference, some sort of suggestion, some hint ofdiscrimination, and there is nothing here --QUESTION: That sounds like evidence again. There is notice that the complaint is that I was firedbecause of my age and my national origin. Now, it's --this case comes to us from the Second Circuit, and that'swhy I mentioned Dioguardi v. Durning, because even if itdoesn't come from this Court, I assumed that what Judge th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Clark wrote way back then is still law of the circuits,for the Second Circuit, which is why I find it verypuzzling this Court reached the result it did.MS. BRODY: Your Honor, if you look at theDioguardi complaint you will see that all of the elementsof the claim are alleged in that complaint.QUESTION: What do you mean by elements? Ithought it was, indeed, Hornbook law that you are notrequired under the Federal rules to plead the elementsthat constitute a, quote, cause of action?MS. BRODY: That is correct, Your Honor, butthere has to be something in the complaint that goes tothe heart of the claim and, in a discrimination case, theheart of the claim is the discrimination. In a breach of contract case, the heart of the claim is the breach, andif you identify the contract, you identify the breach, youidentify the injury, you have satisfied the elements, orthe essence of that claim, and that is required in adiscrimination case.QUESTION: Well, wait --QUESTION: And what he did was not equivalent todefendant owes plaintiff X dollars for goods sold anddelivered on a certain date.MS. BRODY: No, Your Honor. No, Your -- he'snot made the showing that Rule requires, and there's a th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC reason that the word showing is used in Rule . Itdoesn't say, all you have to do is identify the claim --this is a title VII claim -- and it doesn't say that thenyou can follow that by conclusion I was discharged becauseof my national origin --QUESTION: There's a lot more than that in thiscomplaint. It does run on for several pages doesn't it?MS. BRODY: It goes on for several pages, butthe facts do not support the conclusion, that is, thefactual allegations, and there are factual allegations inthis complaint, and interestingly, petitioner doesn'tclaim that he doesn't have to allege that he was a memberof a protected class, he doesn't claim that he doesn'thave to allege that he was qualified, and he doesn't claimthat he did not have to allege that there was an adverseemployment action. All he claims is that he doesn't haveto set forth any allegations that would give rise to thisinference of discrimination, and it doesn't necessarily have to be the inference. It just has to be --QUESTION: Those elements are not necessaryfor -- to win, are they? They're necessary to establish aprima facie case that would insulate you against apreliminary dismissal, but you can win a case withoutestablishing the prima facie elements.I mean, suppose I can't show that I'm a member th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC of a protected class, but -- and I can't show that otherpeople were fired, but what happened in this case is thatthis employer just had a thing against white male AngloSaxons, clearly not a protected class, but it wasbecause -- and I have evidence that will prove that, thatI was fired because I was a white male Anglo Saxon, andthis employer just hated white male Anglo Saxons. That'sa valid complaint, isn't it?MS. BRODY: Your Honor, you would have to lookat the four corners of the complaint and determine whetherthere were any other allegations in it.QUESTION: No, but you're arguing this case asthough it is an essential -- it is essential to win atitle VII claim that you establish a prima facie case, andI don't think it is.MS. BRODY: Your Honor, I believe underMcDonnell Douglas if you're going to base your claim on aninferential case that you do need to allege and prove theelements of the prima facie case.QUESTION: Unless you have other manners ofestablishing liability.MS. BRODY: That is correct.QUESTION: And those are questions of fact whichneed not be pleaded. Those are the evidentiary proof.MS. BRODY: Your Honor, the word evidence has th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC been used frequently, and neither the court of appeals,the district court, or the respondent here is suggestingthat a petitioner or plaintiff must allege facts or setforth evidence. All he has to do is have a good faithbasis for making allegations, and if you look at all thediscrimination cases that have come before this case,going back to McDonnell Douglas, there has always been anallegation of some inference of discrimination, andthat --QUESTION: I've never seen an allegation of aninference. I've only seen an allegation of facts, and Ibring this up again because now you say he doesn't have toallege facts, but I thought your whole case was he didhave to allege facts.MS. BRODY: The case is that he has to makefactual allegations.QUESTION: Okay. Then you're saying he has toallege facts.MS. BRODY: Yes, Your Honor.QUESTION: And so -- all right. I don't want togo in circles, but I want to be sure that you agree aboutthat. You're talking about a failure to allege certainfacts.MS. BRODY: Yes. Allegations are based onfacts, and I think that you have to make allegations which th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC have some factual basis in order to go forward with thecase.QUESTION: Well, in addition to what he said, healso said that everybody else, and he names about people, who were dismissed were dismissed for cause andgiven severance benefits, but he was dismissed withoutcause and wasn't given severance benefits. Well, thatseems directly related to the dismissal and, moreover,reading it in light of what he said before, he alleges asa conclusion that this shows I was dismissed withoutseverance because of my nationality or because of my age. Why aren't those facts that give rise to an inference, atleast as much as, I was in an accident and therefore he'snegligent?MS. BRODY: Because those allegations alone areinsufficient in that he does not allege the nationalorigin of any of those individuals, some of whom could beHungarian. He doesn't state. He doesn't allege the ageof those individuals who were terminated and allegedlyreceived severance packages. For all we know, they couldbe over . There's nothing that indicates that thosepeople received the treatment that they did because oftheir national origin.QUESTION: But is that really essential topleading a claim for relief here? I mean, supposing he th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC had left out what happened to these six people and simplysaid that he was dismissed from his employment because hewas Hungarian and because of his age, what more than whatI've just said ought he to have alleged to have compliedwith the bare minimum?MS. BRODY: What he ought to have alleged is thekind of allegation that is alleged in McDonnell Douglas,that is alleged in McDonald v. Santa Fe, that is allegedin Rix. All these allegations in all these cases raise --QUESTION: But McDonnell Douglas I don't thinkwas ever meant to be a pleading requirement. It was away, as Justice Scalia said, to survive summary judgmentand get to the jury.MS. BRODY: McDonnell Douglas can be used as apleading requirement, and it is sensible for it to be soused --QUESTION: Well --MS. BRODY: -- because at the pleading stage --QUESTION: I think many of us would agree withyou that it would be sensible for it to be so used, butthe rules just don't provide for it.MS. BRODY: McDonnell Douglas reflects titleVII. It incorporates the provisions of title VII, and inorder to eventually prove a title VII case, which is an th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC inferential case, you're going to have to plead theelements --QUESTION: There's a huge difference betweenpleading a case and proving a case, and pleading a casedoes not require you to put forward your evidence. Youcould ask pinpointed questions. You say what was wrongwith this is they didn't identify the national origin,whatever. You send a set of interrogatories, get theanswers to those questions, and if they show thateverybody else is Hungarian, he's out of court.You could have asked for a more definitestatement, I suppose, if you said this is so vague I can'tanswer it.MS. BRODY: Your Honor, the idea that acomplaint need only allege a conclusion in order toproceed with discovery and summary judgment and trial --QUESTION: This count, Rule -- this personwas represented before the district court, right?MS. BRODY: Correct.QUESTION: In fact, the same counsel, and therewas a representation to the court made by the attorneyunder Rule that says there's a good basis in law andfact for this charge. Does that count for nothing?MS. BRODY: That does count for something, butthe problem which we're addressing here is that there are th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC not sufficient allegations in this complaint whichindicate that discrimination has anything to do with --QUESTION: And the best case you have for thatis the statute of limitations case, which is anaffirmative defense that, if the time is up, that's it. There's nothing -- you could have all the beautiful facts in the world, so that statute of limitations, you cananswer the complaint with that and get summary judgment onthis spot, or even, arguably, (b)(), but you have giventhe statute of limitations as the only pleading case. Theothers were all cases that plaintiffs won, and you'researching for language that you can pull out of them tosay, ah, but in other circumstances they would have lost.MS. BRODY: I think that if you look at McDonaldv. Santa Fe Trail you will see that the Court thereutilized McDonnell Douglas on a (b)() motion, and itexamined the allegations in the complaint there todetermine whether or not the plaintiff had alleged factswhich could give rise to an inference of discrimination. That was one of the issues in McDonnell Douglas, and thatis a case where this Court applied McDonnell Douglas andrequired an inference of discrimination.QUESTION: What case are you referring to now?MS. BRODY: That is the case, McDonald v. SantaFe Trail Transportation. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: That was a dismissal under (b)()?MS. BRODY: That was a dismissal on a (b)().The other case that I would refer the Court tois Baldwin County Welcome Center v. Brown, which is a casewhere this Court held that a right-to-sue letter issued bythe Equal Employment Opportunity Commission did notconstitute a complaint because it did not comply with Rule notice and did not set forth the factual basis for aclaim.A right-to-sue letter has all the informationthat the plaintiff put in his --QUESTION: You have to file a paper that'scalled the complaint, and a right-to-sue letter is notthat. You can't go into court and say, here's a niceletter, court, and I'd like you to proceed. You have tohave a complaint. The rules say that. The right-to-sueletter isn't a complaint, so I don't think that takes youvery far.MS. BRODY: Well, I don't believe that you haveto have a document that's entitled, Complaint, in order tofile it as a complaint with the court.This Court did not hold that the right-to-sueletter was not appropriate as a complaint because of itstitle. This Court held that there were no factualallegations contained in that complaint for which a basis th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC of the claim could be stated.QUESTION: I'm confused. The right-to-sueletter would have come from the EEOC.MS. BRODY: That's correct, and the plaintiff inthat case took the right-to-sue letter, went to court, andfiled it.QUESTION: But that was not the plaintiff'spleading. That was a notice from the EEOC.MS. BRODY: Well, the plaintiff called that hispleading, and he proceeded on that as his pleading.QUESTION: May I ask you just one question, ashaving studied the complaint as carefully as you have? Doyou interpret the charge that your client wasdiscriminating against this person because he wasHungarian, or because he was not French?MS. BRODY: Your Honor, that's an excellentquestion, and I think there has been a use of these termsvery loosely. I believe that what he petitioner isarguing is the latter point, that he was discriminatedagainst because he was not French, and I believe it wasbecause he was not a French citizen. He alleges thatthese other individuals in the company were Frenchnational.In his EEOC charge he makes clear that heregards them as French citizens and, in fact, one of them, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC one of these French nationals is actually of Greekheritage, so the discrimination that we re talking abouthere is really not based on national origin at all. It'sbased on citizenship and, as this Court knows fromEspinoza, that is not covered by title VII. It isn't aproper basis for a discrimination claim.QUESTION: The case that you cited, Santa Fe,that was a case that the plaintiff -- where the plaintiffprevailed against the (b)().MS. BRODY: Yes, Your Honor, that is correct.QUESTION: Well, I thought you gave that to usas an example of where McDonnell Douglas had been appliedat the pleading stage to dismiss the case on (b)()grounds.MS. BRODY: Oh, Your Honor, I may have misspokeon that, but the Court --QUESTION: So all of your cases, then, are casesin which the plaintiff surmounted the (b)() hurdle, andthere's language in that -- you -- for this mythical casethat hasn't yet occurred.MS. BRODY: Your Honor, I think that Rix, Ithink that Evans, and I think that Sutton area caseswhere the claims were dismissed, which assist us in thiscase and indicate the kind of notice that is required,because even though -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: If I allege that the defendant gaveme a dirty look, I'm going to be tossed out on (b)(),and I could describe all the grimaces and everything else,and it won't do me any good because the law doesn'trecognize such a claim.MS. BRODY: That is correct. That is correct.QUESTION: That's --MS. BRODY: However, that's in effect what thisplaintiff did. He wrote this memorandum in which hecomplained about his treatment by the company.QUESTION: I thought when you -- there isevidence outside the four corners of the complaint, thenyou can bring it as a Rule summary judgment motion, nota (b)() motion, so technically that, if you're supposedto look only to the complaint on a (b)() motion thatshould not have been considered.MS. BRODY: Your Honor, I think that it isuniversally recognized that if a document is referred toand relied on in the complaint, it is regarded as beingincorporated into the complaint, and it's proper for theCourt to look at it on a (b)() motion.QUESTION: Thank you, Ms. Brody.MS. BRODY: Thank you.QUESTION: Mr. Goodman, you have minuteremaining. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF HAROLD I. GOODMANON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERMR. GOODMAN: Just to follow up on JusticeGinsburg's comment about McDonald, on the very pointraised, the complaint was sustained and not denied. At U.S. , footnote , the Court held that there wasno requirement for particularity as defendant hadrequested, and thus sustained the complaint.Second, and last, in the Ninth Circuitrecommended to the advisory committee that Rule , too, beamended to add this phrase at the end, namely thestatement in the complaint shall contain factsconstituting a cause of action. In , the court'sadvisory committee rejected it. It said that it onlyrequires a general statement.Thank you.CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: Thank you, Mr.Goodman. The case is submitted.(Whereupon, at : p.m., the case in theabove-entitled matter was submitted.) th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC 