 IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XVERIZON MARYLAND INC., Petitioner ::v. : No. -PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION OF MARYLAND, ET AL.,; and UNITED STATES, Petitioner :::::v. : No. -PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION OF MARYLAND, ET AL. ::- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XWashington, D.C.Wednesday, December , The above-entitled matter came on for oralargument before the Supreme Court of the United States at: a.m.APPEARANCES:MARK L. EVANS, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf of thePetitioner in No. -.BARBARA B. McDOWELL, ESQ., Assistant to the SolicitorGeneral, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; onbehalf of the Petitioner United States. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC APPEARANCES:SUSAN S. MILLER, ESQ., General Counsel, Public ServiceCommission, Baltimore, Maryland; on behalf of theState Respondent. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC C O N T E N T SPAGEORAL ARGUMENT OF MARK L. EVANS, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioner in No. - ORAL ARGUMENT OFBARBARA B. McDOWELL, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioner United States ORAL ARGUMENT OFSUSAN S. MILLER, ESQ.On behalf of the State Respondent REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OFMARK L. EVANS, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioner in No. - th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC P R O C E E D I N G S(: a.m.)CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: We'll hear argumentnext in No. -, Verizon Maryland v. the PublicService Commission of Maryland and United States v. PublicService Commission of Maryland.Mr. Evans.ORAL ARGUMENT OF MARK L. EVANSON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERMR. EVANS: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it pleasethe Court:Unlike Mr. Smith, Verizon takes the positionthat these contracts are, in fact, pervasive and Federal,and I'd like to tell you why. The statute, by its terms,requires us to enter into these relationships whether wewant to or not. It dictates the subject matter of thenegotiations, it provides that the agreement has to beapproved by the State commission but under Federalstandards spelled out in the statute. Once approved,moreover, these agreements are binding not as a matter ofState law but as a matter of Federal law, which isprovided for in (a)() of the statute.QUESTION: (a)()?MR. EVANS: (a)(), and finally, and in someways most tellingly, every provision of an approved th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC agreement is like a tariff made available automatically toevery other carrier that wishes to adopt them, and theCourt upheld that in the Iowa utilities case even thoughit was challenged, but the function of not only theagreement's terms but every interpretation of anagreement's terms has Federal reverberations. These arenot cases that -- with which the Federal Government haswashed its hands.QUESTION: Well, what about Justice Stevens'example in the previous case, do you pay on Tuesday or doyou pay on Thursday?MR. EVANS: Mr. Chief Justice, I think that is ahard question in terms of the way it was put, and I thinkthe answer, to be consistent, is yes it belongs in Federalcourt, and the reason I say that is because just like aFederal tariff, where there's a question about the paymentdate, it belongs in Federal court. That -- the Court hasheld that in many cases involving Federal tariffs, one ofwhich we've -- two of which we've dealt with in the brief,one of which is Thurston Motor Lines, which is in U.S.QUESTION: How many of these agreements,negotiated or otherwise, are there Nation-wide?MR. EVANS: They're -- they'reQUESTION: Do you have any idea? I mean, giveme -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. EVANS: -- limited to --QUESTION: -- a magnitude.MR. EVANS: I'm sorry. They're limited to theboundaries of the State in most instances, although thenegotiations in one State have reverberations for the sametwo parties in other States, as, for example, withVerizon.QUESTION: I'm just wondering how many purecontract cases are being dumped into Federal courts byyour --MR. EVANS: Oh, I see.QUESTION: ,?MR. EVANS: I think the -- I don't have anumber, Justice Scalia. I can say that I don't think oncethe big issues are resolved there's going to be many ofthem, and the big issues tend to be like the issue in thiscase, where the very contract says, on the point indispute, that the parties agree that reciprocalcompensation will be paid only to the extent required bythe statute, naming a specific section of the statute.QUESTION: Yes, but you say every time there'sany dispute on this contract, even as to what date paymentshould be made, you run into Federal court.MR. EVANS: Well, I mean, yes, but as apractical matter the issues will not be brought to Federal th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC court unless there's a lot of money involved and theissues are very important for a variety of reasons. It'snot a cost-free proposition to go to Federal court.QUESTION: I thought a tariff -- I mean, you'retalking about a State railroad tariff?MR. EVANS: No, not a --QUESTION: No, of course a Federal railroadtariff is a Federal question. Nobody doubts that. Whatthey're saying is, here, the structure of this statute isto have State commissions run these agreements, period. Now, of course, they have to be sure that the Statecommission satisfies certain Federal standards, whichmight have been minimal but have turned out not to be sominimal.MR. EVANS: Well --QUESTION: But -- so I don't see how in answerto Justice Stevens -- and I think it does create aproblem. I don't see how you can put all the -- everydetail of this State contract in a Federal court, callingit a Federal question, and once that's so, there doesbecome an issue as to whether Congress bifurcated this andsaid, as is true of all other State agencies, you have aFederal question, you can go into Federal court. Or said,throw them all in the State.MR. EVANS: Well -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: What's your response?MR. EVANS: Well, two things, Justice Breyer. First, the -- if you look back at this Court's Federaltariff cases you find that the reason these cases wound upin Federal court, even though lower courts in the caseshave almost routinely said this looks to us like a run-of-the-mill state contract issue, is because the tariffitself derives its authority and depends entirely upon theFederal statute. That's what makes them Federal statutes,because of the Federal Government's interest in the wholeprocess.QUESTION: What's your answer to the JacksonTransit case, then?MR. EVANS: Jackson Transit actually was a caseinvolving a contract under the Urban Mass Transit Act inwhich the Court's analysis proceeded as follows. First,it said these are inherently, pervasively Federalcontracts -- e agree with that -- and but for a contraryindication in the text of the statute or the legislativehistory we would view those as Federal issues that belongin Federal court, but the Court went on to look first atthe text where they found the issue not conclusive, andthen to the legislative history where it found thatCongress made a specific determination that it did notwant these cases in Federal court. There is no such th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC analogy in the case here, and in fact, if anything, thesuggestion is to the contrary, because when Congress didaddress the question of jurisdiction, albeit it perhaps innarrower terms than we would have liked. It made clearthat the -- that there's jurisdiction in the Federalcourts and that, moreover, State courts are foreclosedfrom involvement.It's odd to imagine why an issue like the one inthis case which could just as well have come up at theapproval stage, but didn't until the interpretation stage,in part because the Internet exploded in the interim. Inone case it goes to Federal court, in the other case itgoes to State court. It just doesn't -- it doesn't makesense that Congress would have envisioned that outcome.There has been discussion about whether(e)() in some way restricts the provisions of --excuse me, the availability of jurisdiction under section, and we think the answer to that is quite clear notonly from the general presumption against that kind ofrestriction that the Court has articulated from time totime, but also because in this statute Congress actuallyenacted a specific rule of construction in section (c)of the act which is actually not in the joint appendix andnot codified. It appears as a -- in the note to U.S.C., and what it said there was that nothing in the act th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC should be construed to modify, impair, or supersedeFederal law unless expressly so provided.So Congress spoke to what inferences could bedrawn from a limitation of jurisdiction in (e)() and,moreover, there -- the Court has -- I mean, the Congresshas shown repeatedly, both in this statute and in otherstatutes, that when it wishes to preclude review in onecourt system or another it spells that out specifically,as it does in (e)() here with respects to States, asit's done in a variety of statutes that we and theGovernment have cited in our briefs with respect to theother -- with respect to the medicare act.And finally, let me just say a word about theimpracticality of the bifurcation that I think Mr. Smithis striving for here. It would mean a bizarre separationwhere a case could come up with an interpretation not onlyof -- not only of the issues we think are binding as amatter of Federal law, but also State law issues that theState put in as part of its review, and from Mr. Smith'spoint of view, if it's interpretive, it all goes right toState court.In our view, at least all of the Federal issuescome to Federal court, and probably the State issues cancome along under supplementary jurisdiction, althoughthere may be a -- may not be possible to name the State in th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC that context.QUESTION: You say they're going there under?MR. EVANS: Yes, and this Court once before hadbefore it a bifurcation scheme that had been proposed,actually decided by the Seventh Circuit, as it was in thiscase, and that's the Bank One case in U.S., and theCourt said, this is just too unwieldy and inefficient asystem for us to impute the Congress, even if the languagewere clear, and here the language by no means evensupports the outcome.Unless there are further questions, YourHonor --QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. Evans.Ms. McDowell.ORAL ARGUMENT OF BARBARA B. McDOWELLON BEHALF OF PETITIONER UNITED STATESMS. McDOWELL: Initially, I'd like to note thatalthough this -- in this case the Court granted certiorarionly on the question of jurisdiction under section ,if the Court determines that there is a standing problemin the Mathias case, all of the other questions on whichthe Court granted cert in that case are also presentedhere, and section gives the district courtsjurisdiction over claims at least that a State commission th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC has acted contrary to controlling Federal law inconstruing or enforcing an interconnection agreement. Such claims arise under the laws of the United Stateswithin the meaning of section .QUESTION: Excuse me, how does a Statecommission act contrary to Federal law in construing anagreement that clearly says X, which is contrary toFederal law, but I mean, the State commission is justsaying what is the truth. How is that acting contrary toFederal law?MS. McDOWELL: For example, let's say that theFCC had issued a different order with respect to Internetcalls than it actually did. What if the FCC had said thatno agreement under section can be construed asproviding reciprocal compensation for Internet serviceprovider --QUESTION: They wouldn't say that. What do youmean, can be construed? Can be enforced, which provides,I mean, that's fine.MS. McDOWELL: Well, it -- the commissionconceivably could have said if the contract is silent onthe specific subject --QUESTION: Oh -- yes.MS. McDOWELL: -- or whatever.In any event, one can envision circumstances in th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC which --QUESTION: Okay, but you -- but sure, I mean, ifyou posit that the Federal regulation says no contractshall be construed this way, no matter what it says, nomatter how clearly it says that, then I agree with you,the commission would be violating Federal law, but let'sassume a more normal FCC regulation which just says thatthis particular disposition is unlawful, even if you doagree with it, okay, and all that happens is that theState commission says, yes, they're -- that's what theyagreed to, okay. Now, how does that violate State law?MS. McDOWELL: It may not. It may be --QUESTION: Federal law, excuse me.MS. McDOWELL: It may be the rare case in whicha State commission decision interpreting a negotiatedagreement will -- can be alleged to violate Federal law. I think the questions are more likely to come up withrespect to interpretation of terms of an arbitratedagreement where the State commission was --QUESTION: What is the actual question beforethe commission? Is it, what did these parties mean bytheir agreement, and nothing more than that, or is itsomething with more legal overtones to it?MS. McDOWELL: This has been sort of a movingtarget, because the FCC's orders have been subject to th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC review and have been vacated, so -- but the claim was thatunder the commission's initial order with respect toInternet callsQUESTION: No, I meant the rules of the Statecommission, not the FCC.MS. McDOWELL: Well, the State commission, afterlooking at the FCC's orders and the statute, decided thatthere was -- the FCC had said it was permissible to adopteither rule, to read these agreements either as providingreciprocal compensation for these calls or not, and gavesome factors that State commissions might look to inconstruing agreements, and that is what it did.QUESTION: For instance, if you go to a Statecourt, I'm A, I'm suing B because we have a contract, thefinal decision of the State court isn't just necessarilythe parties agree to this. They have to go further andsay, well, is this -- is there any State law prohibitionagainst this kind of an agreement, and what are theresults in this particular case, does A owe B money. Doesthe commission, State commission have that broad an areato deal with the contracts under this statute?MS. McDOWELL: Yes, and certainly it's subjectto the standards of (d) with respect to assuring thatthe public interest, convenience, and necessity is served,and it needs to look at the polices as articulated in the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Telecommunications Act and by the FCC in its regulationsand orders, so it's a broader mandate than just looking atthe parties' intent, yes.Whether this will always present an issue ofFederal law is, of course, not clear, but where there is aclaim that what the State commission has done is contraryto the act, to the FCC's orders under the act, or tosome other provision of Federal, constitutional, orstatutory law --QUESTION: Ms. McDowell, would you clarify whatyou define as the Federal question in this case? Therewere a lot of arguments that were made by Verizon like,this is a Federal tariff, in effect, like the Statecommissioner simply is saying that it is for this purposea Federal agency.In your brief, the only thing that I recall --maybe I got this altogether wrong -- was, you said theFederal question is an FCC order which would becontrolling, and that FCC order, it turns out, has beenvacated by the D.C. Circuit, so I'm really left at seaabout what is the Federal question.MS. McDOWELL: Verizon's complaint, and that'sin the court of appeals joint appendix, was really quitebare bones. It alluded to the FCC order that's since beenvacated, as you mentioned, and to other principles of th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Federal law, and it just simply alleged that the Marylandcommission's decision was inconsistent with Federal law,also with the language of the agreement, and is arbitraryand capricious, so it was a very general claim.The district court construed Verizon's claim asbeing that the Public Service Commission's order is indirect conflict with a declaratory ruling of the FCC, andthat's on pages to of the court of appeals jointappendix. I think the principal --QUESTION: That ruling has been vacated.MS. McDOWELL: That's true. There's now a newruling, and that's being litigated in the D.C. Circuit.I think as currently articulated Verizoncontends that among other things the Maryland commission'sorder is contrary to section (a)() of the act, whichrequires these agreements to be binding, and theallegation is that the commission has violated thatcommission by writing additional terms into a party'sagreement. Whether that is a viable claim or not need notbe decided at this point. It's at least a sufficientlynonfrivolous claim to state a Federal claim.QUESTION: Can I get a clear restatement, if youlike, of just what you think -- I mean, on the overallquestion I now see three possible ways you could go. Waynumber is just what we heard. These contracts are th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC creatures of the Federal law, so much so that everythingabout them is Federal, they all go into Federal court. The opposite view, no, everything about them goes intoState court, with one exception. The exception isapproval or rejection, which is a narrow proceeding thathappens once. That puts percent of the cases in Statecourt for everything.Choice , the compromise, which is some form ofwhich I think you're advocating. That would have to be,the Federal questions come into Federal court under either or . I don't know if it makes any difference, butthey're in Federal court, the Federal questions, and wherethey're all mixed up with State interpretation you havethree choices. Each Federal judge is on his own. ) It'stheir supplementary jurisdiction, ) they have some formof abstention, to wait, ) they do something else. Idon't know what it is, all right. But in other words,let's call that a hybrid approach.I want to know which of those three positionsthe Government takes, and I think it's the last one, and Iwant to know precisely how all this works out.MS. McDOWELL: I wish I could tell you preciselyhow it would work out in every case. When the --QUESTION: minutes or less.(Laughter.) th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: You know your favorite view of it.MS. McDOWELL: Yes. When there is a claim thata State commission order is contrary to controllingFederal law, that claim should come into Federal court. If the only claim is a violation of State law, it shouldgo into State court. If there are both kinds of claims,they can perhaps be brought in Federal court undersupplemental jurisdiction, but then there's a question ofthe State officials' sovereign immunity, assuming thatthey're a party and they haven't waived sovereignimmunity, because the State law claims can't beadjudicated under -- according to Pennhurst in Federalcourt.So the optimal solution in many of these casesmay be to bifurcate, or may be to bring the case in Statecourt, and the State courts, of course, are competent tohear these cases as well, but we don't think that Congressintended to preclude the opportunity of parties to go toFederal court on these claims when they have a Federalclaim under --QUESTION: Let's put the question the other way. Why would Congress have wanted to provide for a bifurcatedscheme, which we know is going to lead to all kinds ofpleadings chicanery in order to get it into one court oranother court, and we're going to have endless disputes th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC about the pleadings. Why would Congress have wanted thatkind of a system?MS. McDOWELL: Well, it is the system that wehave generally, Your Honor. Parties do have the option oftaking their claims to State court or to Federal court,and Congress may have been --QUESTION: But I think you're -- aren't youpositing a system in which there -- I was going to say,aren't you positing a system in which, as a system, weassume there is going to be some kind of a system ofutility regulation, and there isn't going to be a system. Some utility regulation through contract interpretation isgoing to be done in State courts, some of it's going to hedone in Federal courts, parties in essentially the samesituation are going to be making inconsistent choices, andyou're not going to have a resulting coherent system.MS. McDOWELL: Well, we already know, of course,under section (e)() of the act that a number of thesecases are going to be in Federal court, and what seemsparticularly irrational is that if there was exclusiveFederal court jurisdiction over some category of cases andexclusive State court jurisdiction over the same sorts ofissues when they arise in an interpretation context asopposed to an approval context, so that seems clearly whatCongress could not have meant. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: May I ask -- oh, excuse me. May Iask just sort of a broader question? My recollection isthat all the cases we're familiar with so far run aroundas one issue about local calls to the Internet and soforth. I have the -- a feeling that there must be apattern. All these agreements have a great deal ofsimilarity, same kind of issue, same kind of litigants on both sides. I wonder if there really is a mountain oflitigation out there, or if they only have -- a very fewtest cases may resolve most of these issues. What's yourview on that?MS. McDOWELL: Well, I think this particularissue involves large amounts of money --QUESTION: Right.MS. McDOWELL: -- tens if not hundreds ofmillions of dollars, and that's why it's being litigated.QUESTION: But are there similar issues bouncingaround in State and Federal courts, or is this sort of theonly thing they're fighting about?MS. McDOWELL: I wouldn't say it's the onlything they've been fighting about, and I'm not familiarwith all the cases that may have been brought, butcertainly these are the leading categories of cases at theinterpretation stage. Certainly at the initial approvalstage there are a number of cases that have made their way th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC to Federal court on a variety of issues which principallyconcern whether the State commission has --QUESTION: At the approval stage, there's nodoubt about where those go.MS. McDOWELL: Right. It also should be notedthat most of these interconnection agreements build insome form of alternative dispute resolution process thatthere is some negotiation between the parties. Sometimesthere is formal arbitration to resolve these disputes, soit's not necessarily clear that they will all proceedthrough this particular process.QUESTION: Do you know -- do you have any senseof this in the hybrid -- in the hybrid system that we'redescribing as concerning Justice Souter, that I agree withyou is supposed to be the norm in respect to Stateagencies after the Chicago case. Now, one of the concernsin Chicago, and you may have come across this in yourreading, or just experience, would be there would be,then, a lot of cases, because it covers every Stateagency, where people would run into Federal court on aFederal question related to a basically State matter, andthey'd bring in and get review through the supplementaryjurisdiction of all kinds of State issues.Has that happened? I mean, is this the norm? Do you have any sense of what actually happens in, let's th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC say, the million State proceedings that go on everyweek?MS. McDOWELL: I don't think there are nearlythat many State proceedings. In some of these casesinvolving reciprocal compensation for Internet calls, yes,parties have asserted, as they have here, State law claimsas well as Federal law claims, and some Federal courts, atleast where there's been no objection raised by the Statecommission, relating to sovereign immunity, have exercisedsupplemental jurisdiction over these claims.QUESTION: Ms. McDowell, regarding your earlieranswer to Justice Souter as to why Congress would havewanted such a crazy, hybrid system, I mean, this piece oflegislation was an extraordinary intrusion of the FederalGovernment into local utility regulation, wasn't it? Imean, this is an area that has traditionally beenregulated by the States. The Government has regulatedinterstate communications, but here they are getting intolocal communication regulation.MS. McDOWELL: But this isn't their --QUESTION: And was there not a feeling inCongress that we should take as little as possible awayfrom the States, if they want to continue theirtraditional regulation, and if it ended up in a hodgepodge system, maybe many in Congress said, so be it. Is th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC that not a sufficient explanation?MS. McDOWELL: That might indeed be a sufficientexplanation. I would preface this by saying that althoughlocal competition surely has traditionally been regulatedby the States, this act dealt with something a littledifferent, encouraging competition between local carriers,which was quite new at the time this act was adopted.QUESTION: Well, it may be a new Federal policy,but to regulate concededly local telecommunications was amajor step for the Federal Government, and maybe theydidn't want to get into the business of doing that, whichis why they leave it optional to the States whether theywant to implement it or not. The Federal Governmentdidn't want to take on these things, neither at the FCClevel nor, as far as we know, at the Federal districtcourt level.MS. McDOWELL: Well, it certainly is clear fromthe act that Congress hoped that State commissions wouldwant to regulate these agreements to bring their expertisewith local conditions and with local telecommunications tobear, although Congress, of course, also gave States theoption of allowing the FCC to do that.QUESTION: Let me ask the question JusticeScalia doesn't want to ask, and that is, do you have anylegislative history that indicates that they really did th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC intend the hodge podge?(Laughter.)QUESTION: I mean, if they intended a hodgepodge, I will say God bless the hodge podge, but Idon't -- I haven't heard anyone getting into thelegislative background to indicate that they didn't. Doyou have anything?MS. McDOWELL: Not really, no. The onlyarguable legislative history that seems relevant is thatthe State utility commissioners through theirorganizations came to Congress and said, we've started todo this, we would like to have a role in this, andCongress apparently heard them in enacting --QUESTION: What about the provision of thestatute itself, that says if the States want to do it,they can do it? On the other hand, if they don't do it,the Federal Government -- isn't that -- don't you startoff with a hodge podge? It's going to be State regulationsome places, Federal regulation other places?MS. McDOWELL: Yes, and that all argues all themore for Federal court review under to assure someuniformity in the application of the Federal standards inthe act.If I could reserve --QUESTION: If there's FTC participation, the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC State doesn't participate and there's an agreement, doesthat subsequently raise some issues of State lawinterpretation, of interpretation that can go into Statecourt?MS. McDOWELL: I believe that if the FCCresolves these issues it may turn to State law. It hasn'thad the opportunity to issue a decision on this yet, butthose decisions would be reviewable only in the courts ofappeals under the Hobbs act, whether they involve Statelaw or Federal law issues.QUESTION: On the Eleventh Amendment point, ifwe find that there's a waiver under , rather than Exparte Young as a theory, would that simplify the questionof determination of State law issues?MS. McDOWELL: It might or might not. One wouldthink the extent of the waiver would be governed bysection (e)(), which refers to review to ascertainwhether the agreement or statement complies with sections and . That might be too narrow to encompass Statelaw as well.If I could reserve the remainder of my time.QUESTION: Thank you, Ms. McDowell. The secondperson doesn't reserve. You use it or lose it.QUESTION: She's the first.QUESTION: She's the first person. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: Oh, Mr. Evans I thought was thefirst.Ms. Miller.ORAL ARGUMENT OF SUSAN S. MILLERON BEHALF OF THE STATE RESPONDENTMS. MILLER: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court:I'd like to start out with giving you a littlefactual background of what the commission considered andwhat Verizon appealed. Essentially, the FCC issued anorder saying that ISP calls to ISP's were largelyinterstate. That order also said, for those companiesthat had already approved agreements, the State commissionwas to look at contract principles to see if the partiesshould be bound by their previous agreements, and whethertheir previous agreements should be interpreted to includecalls to ISP's being local. That's what the Marylandcommission did in this instance.Verizon appealed to Federal district courtraising two issues. The first issue was that, underMaryland contract law, the commission had misinterpretedthe contract. That's the first issue that they raised. That was clear from their motion for summary judgment,which is part of the record of the case, but I don'tbelieve it's included in any appendix to the case. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC The second issue they raised is, after thecommission had interpreted the contract principles, thecommission determined that the FCC order required them todevelop an intercarrier compensation mechanism until suchtime as the FCC had developed its own compensationmechanism.Now, what Verizon said was that the commissionwas wrong, that the FCC didn't require that, that theymade it discretionary for the commission, and those werethe only two issued raised by Verizon in this case.QUESTION: Excuse me, Verizon was objecting to amisinterpretation of Maryland contract law, but up herethey're saying that this contract isn't governed byMaryland contract law, but rather by Federal contract law.MS. MILLER: Their --QUESTION: Is that a change of position?MS. MILLER: Their claim -- what they argued ontheir motion for summary judgment was that Marylandcontract law became Federal common law, and that thus itwas --QUESTION: Maryland contract law became Federalcommon law, I see.MS. MILLER: That was their argument.QUESTION: So that we have a Federal contractlaw that consists of Federal adoption of the common law of th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC each of the States that --MS. MILLER: Whatever their contract law is.QUESTION: I understand it, I guess.(Laughter.)MS. MILLER: So those were the two issues thatwere raised by Verizon.QUESTION: I just want to be sure I understandthe thrust of your point. That's entirely consistent withthe argument we heard this morning, though, is it not,because they're basically saying it's all a matter ofFederal law.MS. MILLER: I just want to make clear that whatthey were raising was a contract issue. They're claimingthat all contract issues are also Federal law now.QUESTION: Right.MS. MILLER: I just wanted to make sure theCourt was clear that what -- the sole thing they wereraising was a contract issue.QUESTION: But they made the same argument atthe district court level, if I understand you correctly.MS. MILLER: That --QUESTION: Yes --MS. MILLER: It had become Federal common law,that's correct.QUESTION: And the Federal law is borrowed law th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC so far as it involves the interpretation of a contract.MS. MILLER: That's correct.Now, the Fourth Circuit dismissed the claimon the basis of three alternative grounds. The firstground was that in relying on Jackson Transit they foundthat Verizon's claim did not meet the arising understandard contained in . According to the FourthCircuit, the fact that interconnection agreements arecreations of Federal law did not in and of itself raise asubstantial Federal question.The Fourth Circuit also relied on ShoshoneMining, which said that Federal question jurisdictionisn't established where local rules or customs wouldgovern the result, which is what we have here, of course. Maryland contract law is what governed the result here,that under -- specifically under the negotiatingparties had absolutely no obligation to include anythingfrom and in their contract. For that reason,negotiated contracts are kind of taken away from thoseaspects of the Telecommunications Act.QUESTION: Would you think the -- would youassert that the result would be different and you wouldtake a different position if this were not a voluntarilynegotiated contract?MS. MILLER: We still believe it wouldn't come th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC under , but for differences other than JacksonTransit.you.QUESTION: It would be a harder question forMS. MILLER: Yes.QUESTION: Okay.MS. MILLER: The petitioners really haven'tdistinguished Jackson Transits. Both cases involve theprecise question of whether an action for breach ofcontract arises under Federal law merely because thecontract required -- merely because Congress required thecontract to be formed, or required that the contract --QUESTION: Mr. Evans offered one distinction,that there was substantial legislative history theresaying that Congress wanted these actions to be brought inState court.MS. MILLER: I disagree with that reading ofJackson Transit They noted one sentence that they saidled them to believe that Congress wouldn't have wantedthese. There are also several other circuit court cases,however, that have interpreted Jackson Transit to say thatwhere State law governs the decision before the Court,then there is no Federal question jurisdiction regardlessof whether the contract terms were required to beincorporated or not. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: I saw two Federal questions, andeither way it seems Federal. His first point, as JusticeStevens said, was there's some words in this contract. This contract is a creature of Federal law. Theinterpretation of every one of those words is a Federalquestion, whatever source of law that you might come --turn to to figure out what Federal law is, whether it'sMaryland, or whether it's Alaska, or whether it's sometotally different place.Argument , that the Federal CommunicationsCommission in a series of decisions, whatever may be trueof other words in the contract, has said that these wordsin the contract, A, B, C, D, mean, and then he gets theresult he wants, all right, so he's looking both to theF -- which obviously the FCC does have the power to dothat, doesn't it?I mean, it could say as a matter of FCC rule anycontract that has words A, B, and C, must be interpretedto mean thus and so under this statute.MS. MILLER: I believe it --QUESTION: Okay. Now, it seemed to me they'remaking some combination of those two arguments. Is thatright?QUESTION: Excuse me, it can say that before thefact or after the fact? Do you think the FCC has the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC power to say that after a contract has already beenvoluntarily negotiated?MS. MILLER: Well --QUESTION: And the FCC can say, as a matter ofFederal law, what the parties agreed to voluntarily isthis, even though it plainly is not that?MS. MILLER: I think --QUESTION: Can the FCC do that?MS. MILLER: I don't believe they can, and Ithink that was what was the problem with --QUESTION: If I got us into this, I'd modify thequestion.(Laughter.)QUESTION: It's simply a matter of, wouldn'tthat state a Federal question? I don't know what theanswer is, but somebody who says just what I said hasraised a Federal question, haven't they, just as somebodywho says this contract is a creature of Federal law, theword interpretation is Federal, has raised a Federalquestion, and you would reply, you're wrong about what theanswer to the question is, but that's different fromsaying you haven't raised a Federal question.MS. MILLER: I think under Jackson Transit whatthey've said is that you haven't raised a Federalquestion. That's what Jackson Transit said. If you take th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC a contract, and your only basis of the contract was thatit was required by Federal law, then that doesn't evenraise a Federal question.QUESTION: They're not saying it was required byFederal law. They're saying that the words of thecontract, what they mean is Federal law.MS. MILLER: That would be a closer question asto whether that actually raises a substantial Federalquestion regarding whether -- because it would obviouslylimit a State commission's interpretation. The Statecommission could not interpret the word in a differentway.The second basis for the Fourth Circuit'sdismissal of the claim was essentially based on thisCourt's Merrell Dow decision. In Merrell Dow, the courtfound that where a Federal statute includes a limitedgrant of jurisdiction, that any other broader grant ofjurisdiction would flout the intent of Congress. Based onthat, the Fourth Circuit found that (e)() was alimited grant of jurisdiction and that therefore it shouldnot allow suit to be brought under .The respon -- the petitioners have argued thatthe rule is otherwise that essentially the courts havethis broad grant authority unless there is somelimitation, but all the cases cited by the respondents th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC involve Federal agencies, and there's a distinction here,because what the Federal agencies were arguing wasessentially that there was absolutely no review of whatwas at issue, that you couldn't bring it under , therewas no other statute, essentially it was a discretionaryact of the agency, and you couldn't bring it, and in thatsense the Court --QUESTION: Oh, now --QUESTION: Your position is that there's nojurisdiction under , and there's also no jurisdictionunder . Is that right?MS. MILLER: That's correct.QUESTION: And is it because by implicationprohibits jurisdiction, or just that isn't broadenough to cover this?MS. MILLER: It's that represents a limitedgrant of jurisdiction on behalf of Congress, and thatCongress only intended such a limited grant ofjurisdiction, and that therefore to use a broader grant ofjurisdiction such as would defy congressional intent.QUESTION: In other words, Congress intendedFederal jurisdiction over review of approval agreements,but didn't intend Federal jurisdiction over anything else?MS. MILLER: That's correct.QUESTION: What do you say to the provision that th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC your brother quoted to the effect that there will be nomodification of Federal statutory law unless it's expressmodification, which would preserve the full extent of, I suppose?MS. MILLER: It -- but it also preserves the --how has been analyzed in the past, and how hasbeen analyzed under Merrell Dow is that you look at thestatute, and if the statute has a limited grant ofauthority, then that's congressional intent that that bethe only authority, so didn't change the analysis, itjust says you use the same analysis, and in this case theanalysis is, under Merrell Dow, there is a jurisdictionalstatute in the statute at issue, so no other statutes --so , which is a broader grant of jurisdiction, shouldnot be used.QUESTION: What about section of theTelecommunications Act, which does seem to have a lot ofstandards for these agreements. Wouldn't that make it aFederal question?MS. MILLER: Well, but they're -- for negotiatedagreements they're not required to incorporate anythinginvolving and , so they've made the choice to notinclude those Federal standards by negotiating anagreement rather than having it arbitrated, so in thatsense, no, it would not raise a Federal question. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: We're told that the agreements thatare negotiated are not very far distant from what thestandards are under the -- of the statute. The thing isso set up that the parties will come down to pretty muchwhat's in the statute. Is that not so?MS. MILLER: I don't know that it's so in any --in every instance. In this instance, for a matter offact, the initial contract at issue with MFS and Telenet,Verizon actually agreed to a reciprocal compensation ratethat was higher than the commission's arbitrated rate. Now, for what reason, I don't know. Presumably theytraded something else for that.So it's not necessarily so that whatever's inthe statute the parties agree to, and if the parties agreeto that, then they've chosen to agree to that rather thango to the State commission and say, Federal law requiresthis, we don't want to agree to it, but we recognize thatyou have the authority to order us to do it.QUESTION: So you say that what has been createdis this weird system in which challenges to theinterpretation or validity of negotiated agreements can'tgo to Federal court, but if it's a challenge to anarbitrated agreement, it does go to Federal court?MS. MILLER: Well, we think it would not end upin Federal court for other reasons, but we -- but -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: What are the other reasons, becauseit makes some difference to me whether there's going to bethis strange line between negotiated and --MS. MILLER: Well, if you're talking about --going into Federal court under --QUESTION: Yes.MS. MILLER: -- our argument would be theprivate right of action argument, that , you have tolook at the four court factors and things like that, andthat therefore those wouldn't end up under either,and also the same argument --QUESTION: But then you're blending together twothings --QUESTION: Right.QUESTION: -- that I think this Court'sdecisions keep separate. One is , general Federalquestion jurisdiction.QUESTION: Right.QUESTION: That you have to have first, and thendo you have, would you survive a (b)() motion, do youhave a claim for relief, and you treated that in yourbrief, and now again, as though they're the same question,and they're not.MS. MILLER: I don't believe, in answer toJustice Scalia's question, I was treating them the same. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC He asked me what other issues would we raise to say thatthis arbitration case shouldn't be in this Court, and thatwas one of the issues we raised.I believe that there are cases that essentiallysay that a cause of action is a matter, a matter ofsubject matter jurisdiction. There are several circuitcourts that have interpreted this Court's Merrell Dow casein that manner, but I don't think it's necessary for theCourt to even reach this, because I think the cases can beupheld based on the Fourth Circuit analysis, and any oneof the three alternatives raised.QUESTION: I thought we wrestled with that issuein Steel Co.,MS. MILLER: And --QUESTION: You're not going to drag us back intothat again, are you?MS. MILLER: Do you want to know what the FourthCircuit -- how the Fourth Circuit distinguished your SteelCo. case?QUESTION: Yes. I defended in Steel Co., so I'dlike to know that.(Laughter.)MS. MILLER: What the Fourth Circuit claimed youwere doing in Steel Co. is that you were distinguishingbetween Article III subject matter jurisdiction, which had th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC to be decided before you reached the merits, and statutorysubject matter jurisdiction, which you didn't have todecide before you reached the merits under thathypothetical jurisdiction issue. That's how the FourthCircuit has interpreted Steel Co.So in this instance I believe the petitionersare wrong in their analysis that you have jurisdiction unless Congress specifically precludes jurisdiction. The only cases that has occurred has beenwith regard to Federal agencies, as I mentioned earlier,and that was because to find that wasn't broad enoughto encompass a Federal agency would mean that there wouldbe absolutely no review, so I think that there is adistinction that is important between the two cases.The final reason the Fourth Circuit found thatthe claim should be dismissed was the Rooker-Feldmandoctrine. Under that doctrine, it involves essentially astatutory interpretation element and a federalism element. The statutory interpretation element is that grantsoriginal jurisdiction to this Court and this Court aloneover State -- I'm sorry. alone grants this Courtappellate review of State court decisions, and that theFederal district courts only have review over originalactions, original civil actions, and that by implication,therefore, Federal district courts have no review over th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC State court actions.QUESTION: Well, how does that fit in with Cityof Chicago, where a Federal district court did sit onthose supplemental jurisdiction claims as a reviewer of aState administrative agency?MS. MILLER: I think that's distinguishablebecause in the case you referred to the district courtalready had jurisdiction over Federal claims that weretotally separate and apart from the on-recordadministrative review. Essentially, the Federal claimscould have been brought without actually reviewing therecord and the order in the case. It was because theFederal district court already had that jurisdiction overthose claims that this Court found it could exercise itssupplemental jurisdiction and also hear those claims thatinvolved the on-the-record State court -- actually, Ithink it was actually a local administrative agency inthat case, but the on-the-record review.So I think this is different in that Verizonraises no claims that are separate and apart from the on-the-record review and decisions of the Maryland PublicService Commission, so in this instance the Federaldistrict court will be acting as an appellate court,particularly since I believe virtually every Federaldistrict court that has considered the issue has said in th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC telecommunications cases it's not a de novo review, it isan on-the-record review, so in this instance they will beperforming an appellate action rather than an originalcivil action.QUESTION: Could you -- in your opinion, ifthere is -- suppose it isn't a communications case, it'scommon, isn't it, if, say the California State CoastalAuthority, a State agency, orders someone to do thus-and-so, they could say in Federal court, that order violates aFederal statute, all right.Now, in your case, if there were plaintiff justlike this one, and he went into a Federal court and said,your State court order violates a Federal statute -- so inother words, suppose it were much more clear, are yousaying there, there's no jurisdiction?MS. MILLER: There, there would be Federaljurisdiction if the basis of that claim didn't require theappellate -- the Federal district court, excuse me, toactually -- to review the determinations of the MarylandPublic Service Commission to reach the conclusion thattheir order violated a Federal law, essentially --QUESTION: Well, there may often be, with theCalifornia State Coastal Commission somebody says, this isa taking of my property, or something simpler. Now, itcould be that you have to look at the underlying State th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC order in order to deal with the Federal question.MS. MILLER: To a certain extent you would belooking at the Federal -- the State order, but you wouldnot be overturning the State order on the basis that theState commission found. You would be saying, yes, youfound this, but the problem is, what you found nowimplicates this, so --QUESTION: Well, but what if the Federalobjection was raised at the administrative level, so thatthe administrator, the administrative body had said, noFederal problem. In that case, I take it, your answerwould be no, they can't go into Federal court.MS. MILLER: That would be correct. They wouldhave to go through the State court proceedings in that,and have it resolved in that manner.QUESTION: May I ask you a procedural question? I hate to do this, but it seemed to be in the case. Yourclient's the commission.MS. MILLER: That's correct.QUESTION: Now, it's my understanding that thecommission first raised an Eleventh Amendment problem.MS. MILLER: That's correct.QUESTION: And then it was dismissed from thecase.MS. MILLER: We were not dismissed from the case th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC The whole case was dismissed.QUESTION: The whole case -- how did the come up, then?MS. MILLER: Well --QUESTION: It decided as to your client, you'reout of it because of Eleventh Amendment. As to the restof them they were out of it because of , or --MS. MILLER: No, Your Honor. At the Federaldistrict court level, essentially the court decided thatwe had Eleventh Amendment immunity and that we wereindispensable parties and, as such, the entire case had tobe dismissed.The Federal district court also addressed the issue and found that it would not imply a privateright of action, and that the -- and that his EleventhAmendment analysis probably would pertain to the claim as well.That's all I have, unless there are any otherquestions.QUESTION: Thank you, Ms. Miller.Mr. Evans, you have minute remaining.REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF MARK L. EVANSON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER IN NO. -MR. EVANS: I would just like to read twoprovisions, very short provisions from the contract that's th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC being interpreted here. The first says, reciprocalcompensation is as described in the act. The second says,as described in the act means, as described in or requiredby the act, meaning the ' telecom act, and as from timeto time interpreted in the duly authorized rules andregulations of the FCC or the State commission.Now, if you look at the decision of the agencyhere, the State agency here, it is full of a discussion ofwhat it means, what reciprocal compensation is requiredunder the act. That was the basis for the interpretation.The effect of the interpretation was to say,even though the act doesn't require it, you have toprovide it, because your agreement says you're going toprovide it, and we -- this statement says just theopposite.CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: Thank you, Mr. Evans. The case is submitted.(Whereupon, at : a.m., the case in theabove-entitled matter was submitted.) th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC 