 IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - XJOHN D. ASHCROFT, ATTORNEY GENERAL, ET AL., Petitioners :::v. : No. -THE FREE SPEECH COALITION, ET AL. :- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - XWashington, D.C.Tuesday, October , The above-entitled matter came on for oralargument before the Supreme Court of the United States at: a.m.APPEARANCES:PAUL D. CLEMENT, ESQ., Deputy Solicitor General,Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.;on behalf of the Petitioners.H. LOUIS SIRKIN, ESQ., Cincinnati, Ohio;on behalf of the Respondents. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC C O N T E N T SORAL ARGUMENT OF PAUL D. CLEMENT, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioners H. LOUIS SIRKIN, ESQ.On behalf of Respondents REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OFPAUL D. CLEMENT, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioners PAGE th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC P R O C E E D I N G S (: a.m.)CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: We'll hear argumentnow in No. -, John Ashcroft versus the Free SpeechCoalition. Mr. Clement.ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAUL D. CLEMENTON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERSMR. CLEMENT: Mr. Chief Justice and may itplease the court: In Congress updated the childpornography laws to keep pace with technologicaldevelopments. Congress extended the existing prohibitionson visual depictions of actual children engaged insexually explicit conduct to cover virtuallyindistinguishable images in material pandered as childpornography. These provisions are constitutional for thesame basic reason that other laws prohibiting childpornography have been upheld. They protect real childrenfrom real abuse.They do so in two important ways. First, bypreventing the publication and production of materialsthat are as effective as traditional child pornography inseducing children, and second, by allowing the governmentto effectively prosecute cases involving traditional formsof child pornography.First, these provisions allow the government to th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC attack material that poses the same risk of enticingchildren into illicit sexual activities and to pose forchild pornography as traditional child pornography.The government has a clear and compellinginterest in targeting such material; indeed, this court inOsborne against Ohio used that rationale to uphold Ohio'sprohibition on the possession of child pornography.Second and equally important, the government hasa clear interest in promoting the effective prosecution ofthe traditional laws against traditional forms of childpornography. The advent and increasing availability ofcomputer technology has allowed individuals to generatecomputer images that are virtually indistinguishable fromtraditional photographs. This allows criminal defendantsto inject reasonable doubt arguments into virtually everycase.QUESTION: Has any case, to your knowledge, beenlost on that ground in which that was a substantialargument?MR. CLEMENT: No case has been lost on thatground but that is largely a result of the Act, whichhas taken that argument away from criminal defendants. And to give you one very specific example, the case thatthe Fifth Circuit heard in the Fox case, United Statesagainst Fox which is one of the cases where the lower th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC courts upheld this law in an as applied context, thegovernment's expert witness, Special Agent Barkhausen wasforced on cross-examination to admit that she could nottell definitively whether or not the image was of a realchild. Now that concession prior to the Act wouldlikely have been fatal to the government's prosecution.QUESTION: Was that because she couldn't tellwhether the real child was over or under or becauseshe couldn't tell whether it was a real person?MR. CLEMENT: That case was because she couldn'ttell it was a real person.QUESTION: Wouldn't she have the same difficultyon the distinction between an -year-old and a-year-old?MR. CLEMENT: In the cases where the line thatthe courts are concerned with is the line between and, there's an additional aspect of the statute thatclears up many of the problems and that's the affirmativedefense which allows individuals to produce and distributematerials if they make clear they involve actualindividuals who are over .QUESTION: But in terms of what you outlined, interms of the two dangers, you say just the same as if itwere an actual child. Well, if it's a very young adultwho looks like a child, it seems to me everything that you th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC said about the virtual pornography would apply to a youngadult who looks like a child.MR. CLEMENT: That's certainly true, but I thinkCongress in recognizing an affirmative defense formaterials that were produced using people who had reachedthe age of majority struck a balance and recognized thatthis Court has provided additional protection topornographic depictions involving actual adults.QUESTION: Okay, well the question of thebalance raises the question of tailoring, and what Iwanted to ask you was if it's appropriate to have theaffirmative defense that the children or that the peopledepicted were in fact over , why isn't it equallyappropriate to have an affirmative defense to the effectthat the depiction does not have anyone who is not a realchild under . In other words, if the government'sinterests are protected by the affirmative defense in thereal child case, why shouldn't there be a comparableaffirmative defense for the simulation.MR. CLEMENT: I think there are at least tworeasons for that differential treatment. One is withrespect to age that's a fact that's uniquely verifiableand in a lot of contexts we recognize that somebody's ageis something that one can verify. And in fact what we'rereally talking about in most of these cases where the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC affirmative defense for age would be implicated are filmsand the like where there would be witnesses who couldtestify that somebody was of a particular age on aparticular date.QUESTION: But in effect you're depending on thewitness to say that the actors here were in fact over . Maybe they'll produce facsimiles of birth certificates ormaybe they'll produce children or whatnot. Why can't youhave the same evidence to the effect that there were noreal children being used in manufacturing the film? You're depending on witnesses in each case.MR. CLEMENT: Well, in most of the cases whenyou're talking about somebody who's going to make theclaim that they actually generated the photographsthemselves, there will be no witnesses. But I think moreimportant than the presence or absence of witnesses is --QUESTION: But that's a question of proof and Isuppose that if the only person who steps up to the standand says, there were no live children here, is the personwho was accused of the pornography, that person may havesomething to worry about in not having a very convincingaffirmative defense. But that's the defendant's problem,not the government's problem.And so I don't think that answers the question,why if the government is sufficiently protected with the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC affirmative defense in the one class of cases it wouldn'tbe in the other.MR. CLEMENT: And I do think that age ratherthan whether an image is computerally generated issomething that is uniquely subject to verification andthis Court in its Ferber decision confronted the argumentthat the New York statute was overbroad because it didn'tlimit its protections to photographs and images that wereproduced in the state of New York.And the court rejected that overbreadth argumentfor two reasons; one, that it would be virtuallyimpossible for anybody to prove what was the state oforigin for the photo. And I think the same analysisapplies for a computer generated image. The second reason,of course, was that even materials --QUESTION: Why is it -- why is it that witnessescan explain the age but cannot explain whether it wascomputer generated?MR. CLEMENT: Because, again, in sort of thestylized case that the person who's computer generated animage, that's not something that requires a film crew tobe brought in so there aren't necessarily going to bewitnesses. In the case --QUESTION: But that's not the government'sproblem. I mean, that may be the problem of the person th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC who has the burden of proof to carry on the affirmativedefense and if it is a problem then the government is the-- in effect going to be the winning party in resolvingthat problem, but like Justice Stevens, I don't see whatis essentially unique in the probative process to acclaimthat it was a computer generation rather than a claim thatthe kid shown was over .MR. CLEMENT: Well, I'm not sure it's absolutelyunique but I do think age is uniquely subject toverification. And if I could get to the second reasonthat this Court pointed out in Ferber why you didn't needto have a limitation just to pictures generated in theState of New York, the Court recognized in footnote that those materials, even if produced outside the Stateof New York, pose harms and potential risk to childreninside the State of New York.QUESTION: Mr. Clement, may I ask you a questionagain relating to the affirmative defenses or youthfuladult pornography. There appears to be no affirmativedefense for possession of something that in fact usedadults, is that right?MR. CLEMENT: That's right as a matter of thestatute. There's no express affirmative defense forpossession.QUESTION: Well, let's relate that to something th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC that perhaps a number of people in this courtroom haveseen. The film, Traffic, which depicts I guess someonewho purports to be under engaged in conduct that wouldfit under the definition of the statute to be banned,right.MR. CLEMENT: I believe that's true.QUESTION: Did you see it?MR. CLEMENT: I did see it.(Laughter.)QUESTION: Okay. So presumably it would becovered. Now, there is no defense to someone who rentsthe movie, they possess it, no affirmative defense.MR. CLEMENT: There's no affirmative defense forpossession but I think what the statute does is iteffectively makes it so that in virtually, in the vastmajority of cases where the producers and distributors ofa film will be able to claim the affirmative defense, theindividual possessor will be able to claim the affirmativedefense because of a failure of the government's abilityto prove scienter, because if you think about theaffirmative defense it gives people the ability todistribute a movie if it involves actors. But if theyhave the right to distribute a movie that nobody canlawfully possess, it doesn't give them much, that's notmuch comfort to them. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: I don't understand. I mean I buy atthe video store three films, Traffic, Lolita, and Titanic. Each film has a scene of simulated sexual behavior by-year-olds, all right? I think that was the question. The question is, why am I not guilty under yourinterpretation of the statute of a federal crime forpossessing those three films?MR. CLEMENT: There's two reasons. One isprecisely in order to deal with this anomaly that theydon't want to be producing a film that nobody can lawfullypossess, the affirmative defense gives an incentive toproducers and distributors to make it clear in themarketing of the material that those scenes that you'retalking about were scenes that were produced using adultsor scenes used with body doubles, and so in that sensethrough the marketing of the material they can make itclear to people that it involved adults.QUESTION: There is the defense for theproducer, but there isn't for the person who rents thefilm. It's just I --MR. CLEMENT: Exactly.QUESTION: -- I'm struck by what we're supposedto do with a statute like this.MR. CLEMENT: There is a requirement, though,that the government prove scienter with respect to age in th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC any prosecution for possession and I don't see how thegovernment could prove scienter as to age in the case ofthese films where they're marketed in a way where it'sclear that they involve adult actors.There's a second aspect in which this Courtcould find the affirmative defense to cover individualsand that -- individual possessors, and that is the statutedoes give an affirmative defense for receipt and as thegovernment argued in its briefs that naturally would coverpossession incident to receipt.What it doesn't cover, though, and why I thinkCongress didn't have a blanket affirmative defense forpossession is it doesn't apply to somebody who receivessome material that's marketed in a way or has a disclaimerthat makes it clear that it involves adult actors, butthen the individual somehow modifies it, strips out thedisclaimer. In that case, the possession is covered bythe statute and I think rightly so.QUESTION: Does it trouble you at all that thestatute would prohibit a motion picture company fromemploying an -year-old actress to play the three rolesthat Justice Breyer identified?MR. CLEMENT: Well, it would trouble me if thestatute had that effect but it doesn't have that effect. The affirmative defense makes it crystal clear. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: Even though the actress is under thestatutory age, ?MR. CLEMENT: Oh, I'm sorry, I thought you said.QUESTION: Would it trouble you that the statutewould prohibit an -year-old who is a child under thestatute from performing those three roles?MR. CLEMENT: Well, I think it's , but in anyevent it doesn't trouble me if it's a -year-old isprohibited because they wouldn't be prohibited fromplaying those roles if -- the studio would have twooptions. They could either not include the sexuallyexplicit conduct which is all that's covered by thestatute, and I think it would be possible to have made thefilm Traffic without involving simulated sexual activity.But putting that to the side, the other optionis to use a body double and make it clear in the marketingof the film that that's precisely what you've done.QUESTION: I take it your answer to the questionif this afternoon I go out, go to the video store, buy thethree films and bring them home is, yes, I am guilty of afederal crime.MR. CLEMENT: Not at all. You could not beguilty because the government could not prove scienter andbecause you would have lawful -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: What do you mean you can't provescienter? It says that it is a crime to buy, to possess afilm that has simulated sexual activity by persons whoappear to be under the age of . Well, I would tell youright now, I think that film did contain simulated sexualactivity by persons who appeared to be under the age of.MR. CLEMENT: And again --QUESTION: I don't think it was real activity, Ithink it was simulated, and I think they did appear to meto be under the age of . So am I guilty or not?MR. CLEMENT: You are not guilty for the tworeasons that I've said and let me just say that you wouldhave the same problem with respect to the statute at issuein Ferber.QUESTION: Mr. Clement, I'm not sure whatsimulated sexual activity consists of. I didn't see anyof these movies.(Laughter.)QUESTION: They were pretty good actually.(Laughter.)QUESTION: One described in the briefssupposedly was the shot of a juvenile, whether played by ajuvenile or not, from the waist up supposedly engaged insexual activity. Would you consider that to be covered by th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC the statute as sexually explicit conduct? I mean what ifit was just the hand?MR. CLEMENT: Well, certainly if it was just thehand and certainly -- I think there would be certainly anumber of ways --QUESTION: Don't you think, I mean thedefinition of sexually explicit conduct is and what thestatute prohibits is this conduct by minors under oryounger, sexual intercourse, engaging in sexualintercourse, bestiality, masturbation, sadistic ormasochistic abuse or lascivious exhibition of the genitalsor pubic area. Now, the government has not made theargument that at least as applied to juveniles this isunprotected speech anyway and consists of obscenity whicha state or federal government is free, if it wishes, toprohibit?MR. CLEMENT: To the contrary, the governmenthas argued throughout this case that it's all unprotectedspeech because it's child pornography. And I think --QUESTION: Not because it's obscenity, you'recreating, you would have us create yet another category ofprohibitive, something that falls totally outside thefirst amendment. Have you claimed, as Justice Scaliasuggested you might have, that at least some of thismaterial is obscene and therefore covered without regard th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC to any new, any child pornography catalog -- category.MR. CLEMENT: Well, I want to be clear, I thinkgovernment would take the position that virtually all thematerial covered by this statute is independently obscene,but that's not how the government chose to regulate it.QUESTION: If the scene of a head of a personwho the other information in the movie makes it appearthey're engaged in sexual intercourse and all that is seenis the head of a male and a female kissing one another,that would come covered by the statute.MR. CLEMENT: No, I don't think that would becovered by the statute.QUESTION: Why not? It's simulated sexualintercourse.MR. CLEMENT: I think you have to read the termsimulated sexual intercourse in conjunction with the otherterms in the statute.QUESTION: It expressly says there's no patentlyoffensive requirement.MR. CLEMENT: That's certainly true but I thinkif you read the statute in context, I think there's somerequirement that the sexual intercourse that would bedepicted would require some display of nudity in theprocess. Certainly -- well, it doesn't -- it may not saythat and the statute itself may not address that case. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC And I would suggest that the proper way to resolve thatcase is in an as applied challenge. Wait for thegovernment to bring that prosecution. In fact, I thinkthe government won't bring that prosecution. I mean, it'sinteresting to talk about the film version of Lolita andthe like but that involves just a tiny fraction ofmaterials covered by this statute, and if you want to bet--QUESTION: Ferber pretty much said that childpornography is of almost no value, did it not?MR. CLEMENT: Absolutely, and that's why thismaterial that we're talking about is all probablyvirtually, the government could capture it as obscenitybut of course if it tried to do that it couldn't ban thepossession, and child pornography was treated as adifferent case in Ferber.QUESTION: Child pornography is a different casebut very much like obscenity.MR. CLEMENT: Absolutely, like obscenity, whatthis Court said in Ferber is the reason the statute waspermissible is because it defined a category of conductthat could be proscribed and was outside the protection ofthe First Amendment.QUESTION: There's a vast difference between anactual child who was violated and a picture, a simulation th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC in Ferber that you have relied on so heavily, what do youmake of a sentence that is not in the footnote, it is thetext, that simulation outside the prohibition and theprohibition was using an actual child, simulation outsidethe prohibition could provide an alternative?MR. CLEMENT: Well, let me just clarify onething because the statute in Ferber itself also coveredsimulated sexual activity so all these line drawingproblems about what, you know, at what point does thescene in Traffic come under the coverage of the statutealso applied in Ferber because it also captured simulatedacts involving adults. So the only difference between thecoverage of this statute and Ferber is that this statutedoes attempt to prohibit materials that do not involveactual individuals but are virtually indistinguishablefrom --QUESTION: Yes, but even that sentence in Ferbersaid we're not touching in this case, here we have anactual child simulation outside that prohibition couldprovide an alternative.MR. CLEMENT: With respect, I don't think that'swhat Ferber meant to say. I mean, Ferber, after all, wasdecided in .QUESTION: It used those words. It used thosewords. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. CLEMENT: It did, but it was decided in before this technology even existed. And interestingly,if you look at footnote in the Ferber opinion the Courtwent out of its way to invoke the general doctrine thatyou don't apply cases before they arise and you don'tadopt a rationale any broader than necessary to decide thecase before it. And it just seems to me --QUESTION: What if we read that sentence asthough it were not there?MR. CLEMENT: No I think you read it in thecontext --QUESTION: Not in the opinion.MR. CLEMENT: -- with respect, I think you treatit in the context of what was prohibited by the New Yorkstatute and the technology that was available at the time. And I think what's important here is any avenues forspeech that were left open in Ferber are left open by thestatute in conjunction with the affirmative defense. Theonly materials that are covered by the statute and notcovered by Ferber are materials that didn't exist at thetime of Ferber and it seems to me that Congress isentitled to update the tech -- the pornography andobscenity laws to deal with technological developments.The first federal obscenity statute in didn't cover photographs because the technology wasn't in th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC widespread use at the time. Subsequently Congress addedphotographs to the cover to the obscenity statutes becausetechnology developed and new problems arose.QUESTION: The Court relied very heavily on thenotion that if you use actual children they are harmed,they are actually harmed, so what is the primary reliancethat you make for applying the same prohibition to thesevideo images?MR. CLEMENT: Well I think there's -- I wouldmake two responses. First, I think this Court has neverstrictly limited itself to the protection of the childdepicted in the image and it recognizes that legislaturesin Congress have an interest in protecting all childrenbut secondly --QUESTION: It did seem to me that the Court, andI was here, played heavy reliance on harm to children.MR. CLEMENT: Absolutely.QUESTION: Actual children. So I'm asking youwhat is your primary reliance when you don't have that?MR. CLEMENT: Well, I don't know that we have toanswer that question in this case because we do have that,because this statute enables the government to continue toprosecute effectively cases involving traditional forms ofchild pornography, because the advent --QUESTION: But that's not an answer to Justice th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC O'Connor's question. Basically we're talking here aboutoverbreadth and the government's argument seems to be thatsince there is a class of materials that we can proscribe,the fact that it's overly broad is the respondent'sproblem. But the law works the other way around, you haveto show that this statute is precise as to its coverageand that it covers no more and let's just for argument'ssake, although I don't think that's the law, concede notsubstantially more than what can be prohibited. AndJustice O'Connor's question was directed to this latterproblem and it seems to me you're not answering thequestion.MR. CLEMENT: Well, I'm trying to and I thinkthat, I mean, first of all, even in an overbreadthchallenge the burden does lie on the party challenging thestatute and they have to show things from actual fact inorder to challenge the statute and I don't think they'vecarried that burden.Second, this statute is responsive to theproblem of protecting both the children depicted in theimage and all children who can be seduced or enticed intothis kind of activity can be depicted themselves.QUESTION: But the gravamen of her question,Justice O'Connor can explain her own question, but as Iunderstood it, is that there's a substantial area here th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC where adults who are play acting roles of children arecovered, and the question is what is the government'sinterest in that?MR. CLEMENT: There isn't an interest in thoseplay acting cases and that's why the affirmative defenseallows those to take place. But again, the question is asyou indicated substantial overbreadth and these questionswe're talking about, about Traffic and the film version ofLolita really are a tiny fraction of the cases covered bythe statute.QUESTION: Why is it that the question I reallywould like you to get to if you can is one that's reallybothering me very much is the question that Justice Scaliaasked and the thing in this area I do not understand, inthe entire area is why doesn't Miller work? There isobviously a set of materials which Justice Stewart used torefer to as I know it when I see it and that material doesnot have at its object communication. It has at itsobject a certain activity which is not communication. Nowthat's all over our society, and why, given this Court'sdecision in Miller, is that so? And if I knew the answerto that question I would be better able to deal with thiskind of case.MR. CLEMENT: Well, let me first try to say tworeasons why I don't think Miller is directly relevant and th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC if those aren't responsive to your questions, maybe --QUESTION: I'd rather not hear why it's directly-- not directly relevant because my question, which is myown problem, not your problem, is I'm trying to understandthe area. There are several cases in this area coming up,this is not the only one, and I want to know from thegovernment why it is, you've read in this area, maybe youjust should direct me to an article. The problem Ipersonally am having as a judge is I think what JusticeScalia was driving at, maybe, that's his question, is whydoesn't Miller work. Now maybe you'll tell me that itdoes, but that's contrary to my experience because itseems to me I see much material that would have flunkedJustice Stewart's test all over the place. And it seemsto me that that's the material that parents are worriedabout their children getting a hold of.Now, if I knew why Miller was insufficient todeal with that problem I would know better how to dealwith this kind of a case.MR. CLEMENT: Well, one reason that Miller is adifficult case and doesn't -- isn't terribly satisfying isit requires a case by case adjudication of thatthree-prong test which I would say with deference is notself-defining. And what Congress decided to do in thiscontext is follow the lead of Ferber where it said that th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Miller wasn't the test of child pornography and defined amuch clearer class of material that whether or not itapplies in Miller, whether or not the work as a whole isimplicated, this is a definable class of material that isoutside the protection of the First Amendment.If you have concerns about the Miller test thenyou really should seize upon this statute and Ferber andthe analysis in Osborne as one way to deal with thatproblem because here's a test that doesn't rely oncommunity standards or other difficult considerations toapply in practice. It has a test that says when we'retalking about visual depictions only, we're not talkingabout novels here, and we're talking about material thatdepicts children engaged in sexually explicit conduct thenwe don't have to look to the value of the work as a whole. You can put all the Shakespeare around these visualdepictions you'd like and they're still visual depictionsof children engaged in sexually explicit conduct.QUESTION: Mr. Clement, before you finishthere's something of great concern to me too because itseems that this is a big step away from actual child,injury to an actual child to the effect on the viewer andthe same thing could be said for women with respect topornography, portraying women in a degrading way. Thesame thing could be said for hate speech. So this, where th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC there is no actual child victim, where it's a picture andyou're talking about the effect of that on the viewer, whyisn't it the same for all these other things that can havea very bad effect on the viewer?MR. CLEMENT: Well, I think there are twoprincipal reasons why you shouldn't be worried about thatparticular slippery slope. One is this Court already putone foot down that slope in Osborne when it relied on theseduction rationale in conjunction with the concern forthe children who were depicted. And in the same way thisstatute responds both to harm, potential harm, to otherchildren in the seduction rationale and to childrenactually depicted because as a matter of practical realityit's become very difficult for the government to prosecutecases involving actual, traditional child pornography.QUESTION: If you have this out you can usesimulated children, that will protect the actual childrenfrom being exploited. Why can't you say one as much asthe other?MR. CLEMENT: Because I think, as I indicatedbefore, there are real verifiability problems that don'tarise in the context of age that do arise in computer.The second reason, though, I think that you haveto be less worried about the slippery slope in thiscontext is the government has consistently gone to the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC courts and told them to interpret appears to be to coverimages that are virtually indistinguishable fromtraditional child pornography. It doesn't seem to put thisCourt on a slippery slope to say that material that isvirtually indistinguishable from material that's alreadybeen held to be outside the protection of the FirstAmendment also will be outside the protection of the FirstAmendment.QUESTION: Are you asking us to read that phraseinto the statute, the virtually indistinguishable phrase?MR. CLEMENT: Well, the virtuallyindistinguishable phrase already appears in the text ofthe statute, it just doesn't appear in the operativeprovision. So what we're asking you to do is to read thatterm, appears to be, in light of the legislative finding,where it's not just the legislative finding where it'svirtually indistinguishable.QUESTION: You're asking us to construe thestatute narrowly to apply only to things that arevirtually indistinguishable from actual behavior, it wouldeliminate cartoons and that sort of stuff?MR. CLEMENT: That's absolutely right and that'sthe position we've taken in all the lower courts.QUESTION: Even the language that says conveysthe impression, you want us to give the same meaning to th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC that?MR. CLEMENT: Well, I actually think that theconveys the impression language could be given thatmeaning but I think the conveys the impression language ismuch less problematic from a constitutional standpoint ifyou understand subsection D of the statute to be addressedto pandering and in that context the concerns aboutvagueness are much reduced because you're not going to befocused on just the image, you're going to be focused onthe way it's marketed, and I think in that context itwon't be difficult to see whether or not it conveys theimage. I'd like to reserve the remainder of my time forrebuttal.CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: Very well, Mr.Clement. Mr. Sirkin, we'll hear from you.ORAL ARGUMENT OF H. LOUIS SIRKINON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTSMR. SIRKIN: Mr. Chief Justice and may it pleasethe Court: The petitioner's argument if adopted wouldhave three radical tragic consequences for First Amendmentjurisprudence. First in the name of protecting childrenall visual messages of adolescent sexuality will beforever barred regardless of their scientific, artistic oreducational value.Second, countless visual depictions -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: Excuse me, such as what? Such aswhat? You know, I try to think what great works of artwould be taken away from us if we were unable to showminors copulating or any of the other acts set forth inthe definition here. Can you give me a couple ofexamples?MR. SIRKIN: Certainly, in the film area.QUESTION: Lolita?MR. SIRKIN: Lolita, Traffic.QUESTION: That would be a great -- leaving thebook, the movie Lolita, the book is perfectly okay, right? This only applies to the movie?MR. SIRKIN: That's correct.QUESTION: The great work of western art.MR. SIRKIN: It's gotten critical acclaim. Themovie Traffic, I think, won an Academy Award. There's themovie Tin Drum.QUESTION: What else besides the movie Lolitawould we be deprived of in order to prevent littlechildren from being exploited?MR. SIRKIN: There's the movie Traffic, there'sthe movie Tin Drum, there's a whole bunch of, you know,there's the Brooke Shields movies that maybe some peopledon't enjoy, but again it's there, the Blue Lagoon and theseries of movies such as that. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: In respect, this is not, you know,the Mona Lisa or Venus de Milo or anything that has lastedmore than years.MR. SIRKIN: It could very well affect, I think,painters because the statute -- excuse me.QUESTION: How about Romeo and Juliet? Itinterprets one scene there that way.MR. SIRKIN: It could, if the movie -- a movieof Romeo and Juliet were made.QUESTION: Gee, you've seen a different versionof that play than I have.(Laughter.)MR. SIRKIN: Well, it depends on how they wantedto portray it. I think they would have to be preventedfrom showing or simulated sexual activity because if theyare in fact, you know, to be considered to be underage. And secondly, countless visual depictions of adultsexuality will be prohibited where the adults depictedappear to some unknown censor to be younger than . Andthird, it would open the door to banning other forms ofexpression simply because the expression could be misusedand/or abused by a small segment of society.QUESTION: Very well, how should it be read? How would you write the statute so that it did takeJustice Stewart's material that flunks. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. SIRKIN: One is, I think, enforcement of theobscenity laws would be one way.QUESTION: Apparently that doesn't work andthat's why I'm puzzled. And where children, where you'redepicting children engaged in this activity, let's saythat flunks the Algerian seaman test or whatever it was heused to have.MR. SIRKIN: Your honor, there's --QUESTION: How is Congress to write a statute inthe area of children that gets at that problem, which is aproblem?MR. SIRKIN: I believe that Title , section covers that problem. In the past there have beennumerous prosecutions, I think, prior to the passages ofthis Act. In a member of the Department of Justicetestified before the Senate committee that heard evidenceabout this statute and indicated that there had been aconviction rate of over percent in cases that had beenbrought against people for the possession or disseminationof material containing a depiction of a minor.So that in fact has not been a problem in thepast and apparently in this all in umbrella statute wherethey used any visual depiction, which in fact if you usethe terminology any visual depiction it's not just limitedto virtually indistinguishable -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: You have no problem then with thestatute before it was amended.MR. SIRKIN: I have no problem, this is a newstatute, and did exist.QUESTION: What did it do? How did it changethe law?MR. SIRKIN: It used the terminology, it createda category of computer images that would be nonreal orother pictures or images that are nonreal and that arefictional characters into the act and it would beprohibited if disseminated or possessed.QUESTION: So, well, whatever was going to bethreatened in the way of free expression and so forthunder the new act was simply computer images of thingsthat were already prohibited if done by real people?MR. SIRKIN: No it did not, it included, it saidany visual depiction, that would include that could beconsidered cartoons, illustrations, drawings, paintings.QUESTION: If the statute is construed to be,say, virtually indistinguishable then I think cartoonswould not be covered.MR. SIRKIN: But the problem is it would stillsuffer from the vagueness because what would happen isthat in fact I had a computer image of a fictionalcharacter I'd never have a defense because I could not th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC come forward and prove that that fictional character wasover . So if someone believed --QUESTION: That seems way out at the fringessomewhat.MR. SIRKIN: Well but that leaves it to thediscretion. It may be that the current administration maynot enforce this language but down the road nobody knowswhat will happen.QUESTION: You could cross that bridge when youcome to it then.MR. SIRKIN: Well, I believe when you begin totalk about First Amendment rights to put it on to a caseby case basis I think you are abridging, you know, afundamental right and I think that in addition to that youhave the problem that if I get charged you're not justbeing charged with a violation of an obscenity law, you'rebeing accused of being a child pornographer and that doeshave some connotation and that has some ill effects justfrom the fact of being charged. And I would have nodefense.QUESTION: Well, does it cover things beyondobscene speech?MR. SIRKIN: Well --QUESTION: In your view.MR. SIRKIN: In this it does, it would cover, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC you know, the morphing situation --QUESTION: Excuse me?MR. SIRKIN: I'm using the term morphing whereyou use an identifiable and you can merge it in on thecomputer to, you know, into similar --QUESTION: Images of obscenity.MR. SIRKIN: That's correct, or of a sexual act--QUESTION: That is the expansion, is coveringimages of obscenity.MR. SIRKIN: Well, it would be images, it wouldbe copying images of obscenity with an identifiableindividual or in sexual conduct and that is harm to a realchild because that person is an identifiable child andthat becomes a permanent record.QUESTION: But does it cover depictions ofsomething more than obscenity?MR. SIRKIN: Well, when you use the terminologysimulated sexual activity it would, you know, it depends,I guess that goes community to community. But what youhave is like in the movie Trafficking where you have ayoung lady under a cover with a man on top of her, youonly see their heads but, you know, the simulated meansthe appearance of, and that in fact does give theappearance and, you know, in that situation it is a th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC representation in the movie that that person is under theage of --QUESTION: Don't you think the statute canreasonably be read giving the definition of the activitiescovered not to cover two people under a bed with nodepiction of sexual organs or anything else.MR. SIRKIN: The problem is, is that the statuteuses the term actual sexual activity and/or simulated, andagain --QUESTION: It depends on what you mean by sexualactivity. If it's just a depiction without any indicationof the sexual organs it's certainly reasonable to say thatthat isn't covered.MR. SIRKIN: But that's not what the statutesays, though.QUESTION: Well, the statute does say explicit. Doesn't that cover what Justice Scalia --MR. SIRKIN: No it doesn't, because it saysexplicit sexual conduct, actual or simulated and I guessit depends on how you read that word simulated.QUESTION: You say explicit. What work does theterm explicit do?MR. SIRKIN: It means clearly and again clearlywould mean to me that if it appears that they're under theblanket and that's what they're doing I think it's a th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC reasonable inference to be made and I think that it wouldcover that as simulated activity.QUESTION: But explicit certainly can meansomething different than clearly.MR. SIRKIN: It can, but it's not defined in thestatute. They could have gotten rid of the wordsimulated.QUESTION: Then maybe the courts will define itso that it wouldn't cover the kind of thing you're talkingabout.QUESTION: It is defined in the statute,sexually explicit conduct that was in quotes means actualor simulated sexual intercourse.MR. SIRKIN: And some other things, and it usesmasturbation and --QUESTION: It includes sexual intercourse, itseems to me it's sexual intercourse whether you see theentire body or only part of it.MR. SIRKIN: I agree with Your Honor that itwould be simulated if they're under the blanket and yousee the heads.QUESTION: I think the question is whether youcould, a court could say well, to keep this withinconstitutional bounds we will read into the statute thisbroad requirement that there be an actual showing of th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC sexual organs.MR. SIRKIN: You know, legislatures writestatutes, I think the courts interpret them and I think toconstrue it you'd be basically rewriting the statute ifyou did that, if you eliminated that terminology and Idon't think the government has urged that.QUESTION: Am I not correct in remembering thatone of the amendments to this series of statutes byCongress specifically eliminated the requirement ofpatently offensive and the like?MR. SIRKIN: They've done that in the childpornography area a long time ago. They did that in Ferberwhen they said that it, just if it merely is childreninvolved in sexual activity it's a violation of the lawand it's not subject to the three-prong test of Miller andthe patently offensive is a part of the Miller test.QUESTION: Do you have any examples of the useof computer generated images covered by this statute whereit has serious literary or educational value or scientificvalue?MR. SIRKIN: Well --QUESTION: Do we have examples of that?MR. SIRKIN: Today I don't know that we haveexamples today of that. I mean, I would think that if weconvert the videos and the films that are being made today th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC into DVD, those are, that's a computer, digital computer--QUESTION: Because your concern is with theexpansion to these images of things that are alreadyprohibited and yet I don't think we have examples of anyserious use of them in --MR. SIRKIN: Well, if I --QUESTION: -- areas which would be of concern. The examples that we've talked about today and that Ithink you've identified seem to be of films using youthfuladults.MR. SIRKIN: Well, that would be correct but Ithink it's not, you know, too in the distant future thatwe will be making films that will be virtual reality.QUESTION: But they're their strongest argumentis -- I mean, I thought their argument is you're right,those things you're talking about are not covered. They're not covered today because everybody knows they'renot really under the age of , the actors. And tomorrowif we have a new system we'll worry about it tomorrow on acase by case basis. Maybe all they'd have to do is put onthe top these are not real, I don't know what they'd haveto do, but they're so few and far between that weshouldn't strike the statute down on its face.Now that's why I think people are asking you for th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC particular examples because if you have to make up animaginary example that doesn't really exist then maybe thecorrect thing to do is say the statute shouldn't be struckdown on its face and we'll proceed case by case as areasonable literary or scientific virtue to a particularthing. Of course the person can't be convicted. Nowthat's case by case. I'm putting what I take it is theirargument here.MR. SIRKIN: But the problem with that is itcreates a chilling effect because who's going to take thechance? I mean that's it, if the government says if it'sclose to the line I think the petitioners have indicatedin their brief that if it's close to the line then justdon't do it, you know, don't publish it, don't make it,and that's censorship.QUESTION: What about the other argument whichis look, we're trying to protect the real children who arethe subjects of the film and the reason we need this toprotect them is because there is no way for any expert oranyone else to say when they see a film whether this is afilm of a real person or whether it is a fake film madethrough virtual technology. The experts just can't tellus.MR. SIRKIN: Well, I think that becomes, youknow, an excuse. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: Is it true?MR. SIRKIN: It is not true.QUESTION: All right. You think it is not true,they think it is true. Is there somewhere in the record Icould look or some place I could find out as to whatexperts think?MR. SIRKIN: Yes, because I think you can lookat the Senate hearing report where it's indicated that in in relation to cases that were brought there was aconviction rate of . percent. In addition to that, thatsince the enactment of this law the government has notlost a case and it was raised in the Kimbrough case and itwas raised in the Fox case, they were able to get aconviction.QUESTION: You say the congressional finding iswrong then because the statute begins with, among otherfindings, new photographic and computer imagingtechnologies make it possible to produce by electronic,mechanical or other means visual depictions of what appearto be children engaging in sexually explicit conduct thatare virtually indistinguishable to the unsuspecting viewerfrom unretouched photographic images. You say that thatcongressional finding is wrong?MR. SIRKIN: That congressional finding, I don'tthink it was empirically, there was no empirical evidence th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC that was really shown to Congress that that is correct,that the computer, and I believe, and I think it's clear--QUESTION: So you have both your opponent andthe Congress who think you're wrong on this point.MR. SIRKIN: Yes.QUESTION: Okay. But your point still is, Itake it is, even if in fact the Congress is correct onthat, there's no evidence that cases are being lostbecause of this virtual indistinguishability problem,cases involving real children.MR. SIRKIN: That's correct. And I believe ifyou want to make it easier for the government to makeconvictions I think that we could get rid of the Bill ofRights and it would be much easier for the government thento get convictions.QUESTION: Mr. Clement gave an example ofanother case in which the government did obtain aconviction but only because of the new statute in whichthe government witness was unable to say.MR. SIRKIN: That was that government witness. That doesn't mean that there are not witnesses out thereand experts that can make that distinction that if, youknow, there clearly would be, pardon?QUESTION: This was just a bad government th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC witness, you say?MR. SIRKIN: It could have been. I didn't hearthe testimony in that case but they did in fact get aconviction in that case. But I think it's equally asdangerous to create a barrier to First Amendment.QUESTION: Wouldn't have gotten a conviction ifthe law had been what you want it to be, isn't that right?MR. SIRKIN: We don't know they wouldn't havegotten a conviction with that -- the testimony in thatcase was that the expert indicated that he was not sureand could not positively say whether it was real or notreal.QUESTION: And on that basis can you find beyonda reasonable doubt that it was a depiction of an actualminor.MR. SIRKIN: It creates an inference and a jurycan draw inferences from the evidence.QUESTION: Suppose the law put the burden onyou, on the defendant to show that this depiction does notuse an actual child. The defendant, because of this proofproblem, is not brought out, the confusion is it a realchild, is it a simulation. Suppose it were made thedefendant's burden to show that no actual child was usedin this picture, would you have a constitutional objectionto that? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. SIRKIN: Yes, I would. And the reason beingis that at least in the possession area that is not anaffirmative defense because all it has to be in theaffirmative defense, there is no, the element of age, ofbeing able to come forward and show that it's not a realchild or that it's underage is not available --QUESTION: Okay, let's assume that that too wasfixed. Those two features, Justice Ginsburg's and theinclusion of the possession is subject to the defense,would the statute then be constitutional?MR. SIRKIN: I, the possessor though, you'd beswitching the burden of proof then I believe and I thinkthat would be an unconstitutional shifting of the burden.QUESTION: Well, you'd be making, you be -- areyou saying that the affirmative defense therefore is, ineffect, has got to be constitutionally relevant across theboard?MR. SIRKIN: I believe that it is. I think theaffirmative defense that's in this statute isunconstitutional.QUESTION: So there's no way to tailor it byaffirmative defense in effect is your argument.MR. SIRKIN: That's correct.QUESTION: And how would that affirmativedefense prevent some of the evils that the government is th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC trying to prevent, for example the seduction of minors tosexual conduct by showing things that appear to be minors? How would this, affirm -- the existence of thisaffirmative defense still enable the government to dothat?MR. SIRKIN: There are currently, there arecurrently lots of laws that deal with anyone who attemptsto entice a child and I believe that those laws could beenforced and I believe that the penalties could beincreased and that could be a deterrent effect on that. We're talking about the use of this material potentiallyby a very small segment of the population and I think itaffects --QUESTION: Well, you could say the same thingabout a murder statute, you know, you don't expect a wholelot of people to go out and commit murders but thatdoesn't mean Congress can't legislate against it.MR. SIRKIN: But here you can't legislate thatif it's not, if it's a virtual murder and there has beenno murder, you don't go out and arrest people. Here ifyou use a virtual, a fictional character you can go outand arrest people.QUESTION: Well, if you want to talk about avery small portion of the population I would think there'sa very small portion of the population that wants either th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC to produce or to watch adolescents and children engagingin sexual conduct of the sort described in this statute. You're dealing with a small portion of the population tobegin with.MR. SIRKIN: But if you use the principle that'sinvolved here then I do believe you begin the slipperyslope. You go from the idea you can use this and expandit, you can use it, you know, that if you have depictionssuch as, you know, the movie the Godfather, the movie PulpFiction which are cult, you know, movies that areattractive to children, someone could come out and say,hey, look, join my gang, look how much fun it can be if wego out and become extremely violent.QUESTION: What's worrying me about what you'resaying now is that if their factual hypothesis is true,which I tend to doubt, but I'm not an expert, that thereis no technical way to distinguish between a photograph ofa real child and an imaginary child, if it were true,there is no expert who could tell you the difference andyou tell me I can not have an affirmative defense, thenthe government cannot prosecute real child pornography.MR. SIRKIN: I think they can --QUESTION: Because there would be no way toprove beyond a reasonable doubt that it was a real child. So if you deny the government the possibility of the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC affirmative defense weapon you are denying them thepossibility of prosecuting real child pornography.MR. SIRKIN: That's not correct because they'vebeen able to get convictions and they've gone forward andthey've gotten convictions.QUESTION: Well, presumably people think that itis possible to distinguish between the real child and thevirtual fake.MR. SIRKIN: But I don't believe, you know, atleast currently they've not lost any of the cases andthere's only been the one where someone has raised theissue and that expert had indicated that they weren'tsure.QUESTION: I think what you're doing is ineffect varying the question, you're saying, look, in thereal world it doesn't happen, they can tell. But if youassume the hypothesis that Justice Breyer started with,the factual hypothesis that if these are well enough madeyou can't tell the difference, then doesn't it follow thatif you rule out the affirmative defense route for thegovernment, the government simply won't be able to provethe case in the instances in which real children are beingused.MR. SIRKIN: I'm going to go back and I'm notbegging the question, again, if I have, if there is th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC virtual murder that looks so real on the screen, I don'tgo out and charge anyone with murder.QUESTION: Well, we can distinguish attractionto other forms of socially damaging behavior from thatparticular category of social -- socially damagingbehavior that has for hundreds of years been treated asobscenity. I don't think there's any risk of the Courtsuddenly declaring that excessive violence constitutedobscenity. We know what obscenity is. There have beenlaws against this particularly infectious kind ofsolicitation to conduct for centuries. I don't know whyyou think we're going to suddenly flop over intoprohibiting the Godfather because that also portrayssocially undesirable conduct.MR. SIRKIN: If you take the logic that's behindhere about people, you're getting at the person who ismisusing the material and there certainly I think is, youcan't even do medical --QUESTION: Sexual material in a category calledobscenity which has traditionally for hundreds of yearsbeen regulable by government.MR. SIRKIN: But the obscenity here we're makingjust because it's a fictional character visuallyparticipating in an activity that I can write about, we'renow saying you cannot express, that we're saying, we're th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC giving it a social status, and I think when we start to dothat then we start to eliminate, we can start eliminatingother areas equally.I further believe that, you know, as I'veindicated, that the affirmative defense seems to beinadequate. It certainly does not cover the individualpossession and that individual is in a position where ifhe has three images, if he gets a DVD movie and he takes,and it has more than three images in it, he's now, youknow, can be prosecuted for possession of childpornography. And, again, with the definition, when youput it together with the definition of simulated.I think that it is not narrowly tailored, it isoverly broad because I think, again, it covers literarymaterial, it carries certainly for medical research, onecannot, there is no bona fide exception here for medical,scientific or educational or artistic merit, it's ablanket across the board prohibition. I believe the Courtclearly indicated in Ferber --QUESTION: But what if we accept thegovernment's limiting construction, the government isurging that we use this, take the congressional finding,read it into the text of the statute and then it would cutout all the good things.MR. SIRKIN: I believe that the Court has th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC indicated in the past in Turner Broadcasting and in thelandmark communications case that it's not for the Courtto be rewriting statutes as they come out of Congress andparticularly in the area when it deals in areas of FirstAmendment. And I think that the Act, you know, and whatwe're proposing here --QUESTION: Supposing that -- suppose we couldconsult Congress, they would say yeah, preserve as much ofthis as is constitutional. We wanted to do a whole lotbut if the constitution only allows us to do a little we'drather have the Court say that than to throw out ourentire product.MR. SIRKIN: All we're asking is, is the Courtsever out two phrases and that is that is, is it appearsto be and that it, you know, and where it conveys theimpression that a minor is engaged in sexual activity.QUESTION: Well, in X-Citement Video we didsomething not too different from this, reading in arequirement that wasn't express in the statute.MR. SIRKIN: You did read in the elements ofknowingly and you have to do that. Basically thegovernment is doing the same thing in this particularstatute because the knowingly appears in this statuteexactly as it appeared in the statute that was interpretedby the Court in X-Citement Video. It says knowingly in th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC relation to mailing or to transporting, it doesn't sayknowing as to the knowledge of the particular minority.QUESTION: But that's an example of a case wherethere was a First Amendment challenge where we have readsomething into a statute that we might not necessarilyhave done.it.MR. SIRKIN: The Court has the power to do that.QUESTION: And there's precedent for our doingMR. SIRKIN: Yes, in X-Citement Video the Courtdid do that. But we're urging here that the fact is thatthe Ferber and Osborne were based upon the harm to realchildren and we're now limiting something because of themessage. We are socially making a determination here thatthis is speech we don't like.QUESTION: Are you saying that if real childrenare not used in the depiction of simulated sexual activitythat it cannot be barred unless it meets the Millerstandard?MR. SIRKIN: Yes. It would mean --QUESTION: Eight year olds, ten year olds,twelve year olds.MR. SIRKIN: They're fictional characters,because I think they do have a valid use in medicalresearch. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: Suppose you said -- suppose you said-- suppose I -- I don't know how I'd do it, suppose Icould draft a statute which had a medical researchexemption.MR. SIRKIN: It would make it narrower.QUESTION: Would it be constitutional?MR. SIRKIN: Again, I'd have to see the wholestatute and, again, I think that it would depend on how itworks and whether it still had the problems with theaffirmative defense.QUESTION: Suppose you took -- I just want tofollow up on what Justice Kennedy said. Suppose you tookMiller and said where you have clearly minors we as amatter of law assume that it's patently offensive.MR. SIRKIN: That could be done.QUESTION: That could be done, you'd still havethe other two parts.MR. SIRKIN: Yes, and I think that mostcommunities would feel, I think that all communities wouldfeel that that is patently offensive.QUESTION: I wonder if Miller would work moresatisfactorily if you did that in the case of people whoclearly appear to be minors.MR. SIRKIN: I believe that it would.QUESTION: You think it would. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. SIRKIN: Thank you.CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: Thank you Mr. Sirkin,Mr. Clement you have one minute remaining.REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF PAUL D. CLEMENTON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERSMR. CLEMENT: Thank you Mr. Chief Justice.Counsel for Respondent notes the percent convictionfigure. Well, that reflects a couple of things. One, itreflects that the Act has allowed us to prosecutecases even where there is a reasonable doubt about whetherit is a virtual image or not. The other thing that the percent conviction rate reflects is that we are not outthere prosecuting people who pick up Traffic at theBlockbuster. It's no accident that the one court thatconsidered this case in a facial challenge struck thestatute down, but the four courts of appeals thatconsidered it in an as applied challenge upheld thestatute.Those cases give you an illustration of what thestatute is really applied to. The Mento case involvedover images of prepubescent children. The Achesoncase in the th Circuit --QUESTION: Is there any precedent that we judgea free speech statute based on the kind of prosecutionsthe government has been bringing? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. CLEMENT: There is precedent and the bestone I can think of is Ferber for waiting until as appliedchallenges to deal with the fringe cases, the tinyfraction cases. And I think, as in Ferber, if you waitfor those cases to be brought you'll find that they arenot brought in these cases.Another point I think worth emphasizing is thatI don't think given that this statute only covers explicitsexual conduct that there'll be much medical researchinvolved.CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: Thank you, Mr.Clement. The case is submitted.(Whereupon, at : a.m., the case in theabove-entitled matter was submitted.) th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC A ability :, able :, : : : : : about :, :, : : : : : : :, : : :,, :,, : : : : : :,, : :,, : :, : above-entitled : : abridging : absence : absolutely : :, : : abuse : : abused : Academy : accept : accident : acclaim : : accused : : Acheson : across : : act : : : :, : : : acting :, activities : : activity : :,,,, : : : : : : : : : : : : : actors : : :, : actress : : acts : : actual : :, : : :, : :, : :, : :, : :, :, :,, actually : : : : : added : addition : : additional : : address : addressed : adjudication : administration : admit : adolescent : adolescents : adopt : adopted : adult : : : :, : adults : : :, : : : : advent : : affect : affects : affirm : affirmative : :,,,, : : : :,,, :,, :, : :,,, : : :,,,,, : : :, : : after : afternoon : again : : : : : : : : :, :, against :,, : : : age :,, :, :, : : : : :,, : : : : Agent : ago : agree : AL :, Algerian : allow : allowed : : allowing : allows : : : : almost : already : :, : : alternative :, although : amended : amendment : : : :, : : : : : amendments : among : analysis : : and/or : : anomaly : another : : : : answer : :, : answering : answers : anybody : anyone : : : : anything : : anyway : apparently :, appeals : appear :, : : : : : : appearance :, APPEARANCES : appeared : : appears : :,, : : applied : : : : :, : : applies : : : apply : : : : : applying : appropriate :, area : : :, :,, : : : : : areas : : : argued : : argument : :, :, :, :, : : :, :, :, : : arguments : argument's : arise : :, arose : around : : arrest :, art :, article : artistic : : Ashcroft : : asked : asking : :,, : : aspect : : assume : : : attack : attempt : attempts : ATTORNEY : attraction : attractive : availability : available : : avenues : Award : away : : : a.m : : : B back : bad : : balance :, ban : banned : banning : Barkhausen : barred : : barrier : based : : basic : basically : : : basis : : : become : : becomes : : bed : before : :,, : : : : begging : begin : :, begins : behalf :, :,, : : : th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC : :, : :, :,, :,, :,, : :, : :,, :, :,, : :, :, :,, :,, : :, : : :, :, :, : :,, :, close :, Coalition : : come : : :, : : : comfort : coming : commit : committee : communication :, communications : communities :, community : :, company : comparable : compelling : computer :, :,, : : :,, : : :, : : computerally : concede : concern : : :, concerned : concerns : : concession : conduct : : : :,, : :, : : : : : : :, : confronted : confusion : Congress :, : : : :, : : : :,, : :, congressional :,, : conjunction : : : connotation : consequences : consider : considerations : considered : : :, consistently : consists : : constituted : constitution : constitutional : : : : behavior : : :, behind : being : : : :,, : : : :, : believe : : : :, :, :, : : :, : : believed : besides : best : bestiality : bet : better : : between :, : : : : : beyond : : : big : Bill : birth : blanket : : : : Blockbuster : Blue : board : : body : : : bona : book :, both : : : bothering : bounds : Breyer : : bridge : brief : briefs : : bring : :, bringing : broad : : : Broadcasting : broader : Brooke : brought : : : : :, bunch : burden : :, :, : : buy : : : C C : : called : came : capture : captured : carried : carries : carry : cartoons : :, case :,,,, : : : :, :, : : :, : : : : : : :,, :, :, : :,, :,, : :, : : : : : : :, :, cases : : : : : : : : : :, : : : : :, : :, :,,, catalog : category : : : : : : censor : censorship : centuries : certain : certainly : :,, :, : : : : :, certificates : challenge : :, : : : challenges : challenging : chance : change : character : : : : characters : : charge : charged :,, Chief :, :, :, : child :,,,, :,,, :, :, :,, : : : :,,, :, :, : :, :, : : : : : :,, : : :,,, :, : children :,, : : :, : : :,,, :, : : :, :,,, : : : :,, : : : : :, : :, : chilling : chose : Cincinnati : Circuit : : claim : : :, claimed : clarify : class : : :, clear :, : :, :,, : : : clearer : clearly :, : : : :, clears : Clement : :, :,, : : : : : constitutionally : construction : construe : : construed : consult : th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC contain : containing : context : : :, : :, :, contexts : continue : contrary : : convert : conveys : :,, : convicted : conviction : :, : : :, :, convictions :, :, convincing : copulating : copying : correct : : : : : :,, : : Counsel : countless : : couple : : course : : : court :, : : : :, : : : : : :,, : : : : : :, :,,, :, : courtroom : courts :, :, : : : Court's : cover : :,, : : : :, :, :, :, : coverage :, : covered : : : : : :,, : : :, :, : :, : :, covering : covers : : : : create : : created : creates : : creating : crew : crime : : : criminal :, critical : cross : cross-examination : crystal : cult : current : currently :, : cut : D D :, :, :, : : damaging :, dangerous : dangers : date : de : deal : : : :, : : : dealing : deals : decide : decided : : : decision : : declaring : defendant :, defendants :, defendant's : : defense : :,,,, :, : :,, :,,,,, :, :,,, : : : : :,,,,,, : : :, : : defenses : deference : definable : define : defined : : :, definition : : : : : : definitively : degrading : deny : denying : Department : : depend : depending :, depends : : :, depicted : : : :, :, : depicting : depiction : :,, : :, :, : depictions : : :,, : : : : : depicts : : deprived : Deputy : described : : determination : deterrent : developed : developments : : difference : : : : different :, : : : differential : difficult : : : : difficulty : digital : direct : directed : directly : :, disclaimer :, discretion : display : disseminated : dissemination : distant : distinction : : distinguish : : : distribute : :, distributors : : doctrine : doing : : : : done : : : : :, door : double : doubles : doubt : : :, : down : : : : : draft : draw : drawing : drawings : driving : Drum :, DVD : : D.C :, E E : :, each : : easier :, educational : : : effect : :, : :, : :, : :, : : effective : : effectively : : : effects : Eight : either : : electronic : element : elements : eliminate : : eliminated :, eliminating : emphasizing : empirical : empirically : employing : enable : enables : enactment : enforce : enforced : enforcement : th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC engaged : : : : : : : : engaging : : : enjoy : enough : entice : enticed : enticing : entire : : : entitled : equally : : : : ESQ :, :,, essentially : ET :, even : : : : : : : : : : event : every : everybody : everything : evidence : : : : : evils : exactly : : example : : : : : examples : :,, :, : exception : excessive : excuse : : : : exemption : exhibition : exist : : : existed : existence : existing : expand : expansion : : expect : experience : expert : : : :, : experts : : : explain :, : explicit : : :, :, :,,, :, : : exploited : : express : : : expression :, : expressly : extended : extremely : F face : : facial : facsimiles : fact :,, : : : :, : :, : : : : : : factual : : failure : fake : : falls : far : fatal : features : federal : : : : feel :, female : Ferber : : : :,, :,,,,,, :,,, : : : : : :, few : Fiction : fictional :, : : : : fide : Fifth : figure : film : : :, :,, :, :, : : : :,,, films : :, : : : :, find : : : : finding :, :,, : findings : finish : first :, : : : : : : : :, :, : : : : fit : fixed : flop : flunked : flunks : : focused :, follow : : : foot : footnote : : : forced : forever : forms : : : : : forth : : forward : : : four : Fox :, : fraction : : : free : : : : : fringe : fringes : from : :, : :, : : : : : : :,, :, :, : : : : : : : : fun : fundamental : further : future : G G : gang : gave : Gee : general :, : generate : generated : :,,, : : generation : genitals : gets : : getting : : Ginsburg's : give : : : : : : : given : : : gives : : giving : : go :, :,, :, : : Godfather : : goes : going : : : :, : : : : gone : : good : : gotten : : :, : government :, :, : : : :, : :,, : : :,, : : :, : : : :,,,, : : : :, :, : : : : government's :, : : : : : : : gravamen : great : :,, ground :, guess : : : guilty : :, :, H H : : : hand :, happen : : : harm : :, : : harmed :, harms : hate : th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC having : : head :, heads : : hear : : : : heard : : hearing : heavily : : heavy : held : her :, : hey : hold : home : honor : : hundreds :, hypothesis : :, I idea : identifiable :,, identified : : ill : illicit : illustration : illustrations : image : :,, : : : : : : images : : : : : :, : :,,, : : : :, : imaginary : : imaging : implicated : : important : : : : impossible : impression : :, : inadequate : incentive : incident : include : : included : includes : inclusion : increased : increasing : indeed : independently : indicated : : : : : : : :, : indication : indistinguishability : indistinguishable : : : :,,,,, : : : individual : :, : :, individuals : :, : : infectious : inference : : inferences : information : inject : injury : inside : instances : insufficient : intercourse :, :,,, :,, interest :, : :, interesting : interestingly : interests : interpret : : interpretation : interpreted : interprets : invoke : involve : : : involved : : : : : J John : : join : judge : : Juliet :, jurisprudence : jury : just : : : : :, : : : : : :, : : :, : : :, : : : Justice : :, : : : : :, :, :, :, : : : : : : :, : juvenile :, juveniles : K keep : : Kennedy : kid : Kimbrough : kind : : : : : : kissing : knew : : know : : : :, : : :, : :,,,, :, :, :, : involves : : : involving : : : : : : : : issue : : : : :,, : :, :, :, : knowing : knowingly :,, knowledge : : knows : : L lady : Lagoon : landmark : language : :, : largely : lascivious : lasted : latter : Laughter : :, : law : :, : : : : :, : lawful : lawfully : : laws :, : : : :, lead : least : :, : : leaves : leaving : left :, legislate :, legislative :, legislatures : : less : : let : : : let's : : : : lie : light : like : : : : : :,, : : : : : : likely : limit : limitation : limited : : limiting : : line :, : :, Lisa : literary : : : little : : live : logic : Lolita : : : :,,, long : look : : : :, :, : looks : : : lost :, : : : lot : : : th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC lots : LOUIS : : : lower : : M made : : : : : : : : mailing : majority : : make : : :, : : :, :, : :,, : makes : :, : making : : : : male : man : manufacturing : many : marketed :, : marketing :, : masochistic : masturbation : : material : :, :, : : : : : :, :,, :, : : : :, : materials : : : : : : : :, : : matter : : : : : may : : : : :, : :, : : mean : : : :, : : : :, : : : : : : : meaning : : means : : : : meant : mechanical : medical : :, : : : meets : member : Mento : merely : merge : merit : message : messages : might : : Miller :,, :,, : :, :, : :, Milo : minor : : : minority : minors : : :, :, maybe :, :,,, : : :, : : : minute : misused : misusing : modifies : Mona : more : :, : : : : morphing :, most : : : motion : movie :,, : :,, :,,, :, : : :, : movies : :, : much :, :, : : : : :, : : : : murder :,, :, murders : N N :, : name : narrower : narrowly : : naturally : necessarily : : necessary : need : : never : : new :, :,, : : : nobody : : : nonreal :, notes : notion : novels : nudity : number : : numerous : O O : : object :, objection : obscene : : : obscenity :, :,, : : : : : :,,, :,,,, obtain : obviously : October : offensive : :, :, Oh : Ohio : : Ohio's : okay : : : : : olds :,, one :, :, :, : : : : : :, : :, : : :, : : : :,, : only : : : : : : : : : : : : : open :, : operative : opinion :, opponent : option : options : oral : : : : order : : : organs :, : origin : Osborne : : : : other : : : : :, : : :,, : : : : : :, : : : : out : : : : : : : : : :,, : : : : : :,, : outlined : outside : : : :,, : :, over :, : : : : : : : : : overbreadth : :, : overbroad : overly : : own : : O'Connor : O'Connor's :, P P : pace : PAGE : painters : paintings : pandered : pandering : pardon : parents : part : : participating : particular :, : :, : : : particularly : : parts : party : : passages : th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC past :, : patently : :, :, PAUL : :, : : penalties : people :, :, : : : : : : :,, : : : : percent : : :, perfectly : performing : perhaps : permanent : permissible : person :, :,, :, : : : : :, : personally : persons :, petitioners :, :, : : : petitioner's : photo : photograph : photographic :, photographs : : : : : phrase :,, phrases : pick : picture : : : : pictures : : place : : : play : :, : played : : playing : please : : point : :, : pointed : population :,, : pornographer : pornographic : pornography :,,,, :, :, : : : : : :,, : : :, : : : : : : portion :, : portray : portraying : portrays : pose : : poses : position : : : positively : possess :, : : possessed : possessing : possession : :, : :, :, : : :, :, possessor : : possessors : possibility : : possible : : : potential : : potentially : power : practical : practice : precedent : : : precise : precisely : : prepubescent : presence : preserve : presumably : : pretty : : prevent : : : prevented : preventing : primary :, principal : principle : prior : : probably : probative : problem :, :, :, : :,, :,,, : : :,, :,, : : : : : problematic : problems : : : : : proceed : process : : produce : :, : : produced : : : : producer : producers : : producing : product : production : prohibit : : : : prohibited :, : : : :, : prohibiting : : prohibition : :,,, : : prohibitions : prohibitive : prohibits : promoting : proof : : : : proper : proposing : proscribe : proscribed : prosecute : : : : : prosecuted : prosecuting : : prosecution : : : :, prosecutions : : protect : : :, protected : : protecting : : : protection : : : : : : protections : prove : : : : : : : : : provide :, provided : provision : provisions :, pubic : publication : publish : Pulp : purports : put : : : : : : : putting : : puzzled : Q question : :,, :,, : :,, :, :,, : : :,,,, : :, :, :,,,, :, :,, :,, :, : : :,,,, :,, :,, :,,,,, : :, : : :,, : :,,, :,,, :, :,,, :,,, :,, : :,,, :,,,, : :,, :,, : :,, :,,, :,, :,,, :, :, :,,, :, : :, :,,, :,,,,, : questions : : quotes : R R : radical : raised :, : raises : rate : : : rather : : : : rationale : : :, reached : read :, :, : :, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC : :, : : : : reading : real :, :,,, :, : : : : : : : : : :,, : : :, :,,, : :, reality : : really : :,, : : Respondent : Respondents : : : respondent's : responds : responses : responsive : : result : rewriting : : rid : : right :, :, : : : reason : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : reasonable : : : : : : : reasonably : reasons : : : : : : rebuttal : : : receipt :, receives : recognize : recognized : : recognizes : recognizing : record : : reduced : refer : reflects :,, regard : regardless : regulable : regulate : REHNQUIST : : : : rejected : relate : relating : relation : : relevant : : : reliance :,, relied : : : rely : remainder : remaining : remembering : rents : : report : representation : require : requirement : :, : : : requires : : research : : : : reserve : resolve : resolving : respect : : : : : : : rightly : rights : : risk : : : road : roles : :, : Romeo :, route : rule : S S : : sadistic : sake : same : : :, : : : : :, :, : : : satisfactorily : satisfying : saying : : : :, : says : : : : : :, : : Scalia : : : : scene : : : : scenes :,, scienter : : : : : scientific : : : : screen : seaman : second : : : : : : : : secondly : : section : seduced : seducing : seduction :, : see : :, : : : : : : :, : : seem : : : seems : :, :, :, : : : : seen : : : segment : : seize : self-defining : Senate : : sense : sentence :, : series : : serious : : set : : sever : several : sexual : : : :,,, :, :,,, : : :,, :,,,, :, : :, : : : : : : sexuality : : sexually : : :, :, : : Shakespeare : Shields : shifting : shot : show :, : :, : showing : : : shown : : side : similar : simply : : : simulated : : :,,, :, :, : : : : :,, :,,, : : simulation : : :,, : since : : Sirkin : : :,, :, :,, :,, :,, :,,, :,,, :, :, :,,, :,, :,,, :, :, : :, :,, :,, : :,, :, :, :, : :, : :, : :,, :,,,, :, situation :, slippery :, : : slope :,, : : small : :,, : social : : socially :,, : society : : solicitation : Solicitor : some : : :, : : :, : : : somebody :, : somebody's : somehow : someone :, : : : something : : :, :, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC : : : : : : : somewhat : somewhere : sorry : sort : : : Special : specific : specifically : speech : : :, : : : : : stand : standard : standards : standpoint : start :,, started : state :, :,, : States :, : status : statute : : : :, :, :,,, :,, : : : :,,,,, :, :,,, :,,, : :,,, : : : :,, : :, :,, :,, :,,, :,, :, : : : : :, : : : :, :, : :, :,,, : statutes : :, : statutory : step : steps : Stevens : Stewart : Stewart's : : still : : : : :, store : : strictly : strike : strips : strongest : struck : : : : studio : stuff : stylized : subject : : : : subjects : submitted :, subsection : Subsequently : substantial : : : substantially : suddenly :, suffer : sufficiently : suggest : suggested : suppose : :, : :,, :,, supposed : supposedly :, Supposing : Supreme :, sure : : : : switching : system : T T :, tailor : tailored : tailoring : take : : : : :, : : : taken : : : takes : talk : : : talked : talking : : : : : : :,, : : : : targeting : tech : technical : technological : : technologies : technology : :,, : : tell :,,, : : : : : :, ten : tend : term : : : :, terminology : : : : terms :, : terribly : test :, :,,, : : : testified : testify : testimony :, text : : : Thank :,, : their : : : :, : : : themselves : : they'd :, thing : : :, : :, : : : things : : : : : : :, : : : think :, :, :, : : : : :, :, :, :, :,, :,,,, : : :,, :, : :, : : :,, : :, :, :, :, : :, :, :, : :,, :,,, :, :,,,, :,, : : : :, : :, : :, :,, : : : :,, :,,, third : though : : : : : : : thought : : threatened : three :, : :, : : : three-prong : : through : : throughout : throw : time :, : : : Tin :, tiny : : : Titanic : Title : today :,, :, together : told : tomorrow :, top : : totally : touching : traditional :, :,,, : : : traditionally : Traffic : : : : : :,, : Trafficking : tragic : transporting : treat : treated : : treatment : tried : trouble :, :, true : : : :,,, : : try : : trying : : : : Tuesday : Turner : twelve : two : : : : : : : : : : : : th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC : : U umbrella : unable : : unconstitutional :, under : : :, : :, :,, : : : : :,, : : underage : : understand : : : : understood : undesirable : unique :, uniquely : : : United :, : unknown : unless : unprotected :, unretouched : unsuspecting : until : update : updated : upheld : : : uphold : urged : urging : : use : :, : : :, : : : :, :,, : : used : : : : :, : :, : : : : uses : : using : : : : : V v : vagueness : : valid : value : : : :, varying : vast : : Venus : verifiability : verifiable : verification : : verify : version : : : versus : very : : : : : : :, : :, :,, victim : video : : : :, : videos : view : viewer : :, : violated : violation : : violence : violent : virtual : : : : : : : : : virtually : :, : : : : : :,,,,, : : : virtue : visual : :,, :, : :, : : visually : W waist : wait : : waiting : want : : : : : : : : : wanted : : : wants : Washington :, wasn't : : : watch : way :, : : : :, : : : : : : : : :, ways : : weapon : well : : : :, : : : : :, : :, : : : : : : : :,, : :,, : :, : : : :, : : :, : : : : : went : were : :, :,, : : : : :, : : : : :, : : : weren't : western : we'll : : : : we're : : : : : : :,, : : : :,,,, :, :, we've : : whatnot : whole :, : : : : widespread : winning : wishes : witness : : :, : witnesses :,,, :, : women :, won : wonder : word : : words : :, work : : :, : : : : works : : : world : worried : :, worry : : worrying : worth : wouldn't : : : : :, write : : : : wrong :, : X X :, X-Citement :, : Y yeah : year :,, years : :, York :, :,, : young : : : younger : : youthful : : - : : : : : : : : th : : : -year-old : -year-olds : :,,, :, : : : :, :,, : : : : : -year-old : : : : : : -year-old : : : : : : : : : : : : : : th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC : : : : : : :, . : th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC 