 IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XDEPARTMENT OF HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT, Petitioner :::v. : No. -PEARLIE RUCKER, ET AL.; and OAKLAND HOUSING AUTHORITY, ET AL., Petitioners :: :::v. : No. -PEARLIE RUCKER, ET AL. :- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XWashington, D.C.Tuesday, February , The above-entitled matter came on for oralargument before the Supreme Court of the United States at: a.m.APPEARANCES:JAMES A. FELDMAN, ESQ., Assistant to the SolicitorGeneral, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; onbehalf of the Federal Petitioners.GARY T. LAFAYETTE, ESQ., San Francisco, California; onbehalf the private Petitioners. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC PAUL A. RENNE, ESQ., San Francisco, California; on behalfof the Respondents. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC C O N T E N T SORAL ARGUMENT OF JAMES A. FELDMAN, ESQ.On behalf of the Federal Petitioners GARY T. LAFAYETTE, ESQ.On behalf of the private Petitioners PAUL A. RENNE, ESQ.On behalf of the Respondents REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OFJAMES A. FELDMAN, ESQ.On behalf of the Federal Petitioners PAGE th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC P R O C E E D I N G S(: a.m.)CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: We'll hear argumentnext in No. -, the Department of Housing and UrbanDevelopment v. Pearlie Rucker and a related case. Mr. Feldman. ORAL ARGUMENT OF JAMES A. FELDMANON BEHALF OF THE FEDERAL PETITIONERSMR. FELDMAN: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court:Confronted with the problem, an undisputedproblem, of severe violence and drug crimes and othercrimes in public housing, Congress enacted the statute atissue in this case. The statute provides that publichousing leases must provide that any drug-related criminalactivity engaged in by a public housing tenant, any memberof the tenant's household, or any guest or other personunder the tenant's control shall be cause for terminationof tenancy. It sets forth the conditions by which thehousehold may possess and occupy Government property,property that is largely financed by the FederalGovernment. HUD has construed that statute, in accordancewith its terms, to authorize termination of the tenancywhen the drug-related criminal activity by one of the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC named persons occurs without regard to the tenant'sknowledge or control. QUESTION: Do you have any question about therespondent's standing to contest the provisions that -- ofa lease that's made between HUD and the housing --MR. FELDMAN: The -- what happened in thedistrict court in this case, if I can just answer it thisway, is there was a -- we suggested that the court shouldabstain, and this whole thing should be litigated in thelocal courts in the unlawful detainer action. The courtrefused to do so on the ground that this was in part anadministrative procedure action against HUD and that HUDwouldn't have been a party in the local court. That issuewasn't raised further on appeal and we didn't raise it inour petition for cert.I'm not sure if that answers the question ornot, but -- in any --QUESTION: Is the -- is the issue jurisdiction?MR. FELDMAN: No, I don't -- I don't think it isjurisdictional. The question about whether there's acause of action under the APA, for example, is not -- isnot a jurisdictional issue, nor is abstention.Anyway, HUD has construed the statute inaccordance with its terms, to authorize termination of thetenancy when there's drug-related criminal activity th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC regardless of the tenant's knowledge or control. Thecourt of appeals read into the statute a limitation thatis nowhere expressed or implied with any of the words thatCongress used, that a tenancy may only be terminated whenthe tenant knew or had reason to know of the drug-relatedcriminal activity.The question --QUESTION: We read scienter requirements intocriminal statutes with some regularity, don't we?MR. FELDMAN: Yes. But there's no -- but thisis a civil -- this is a contract. It's a civil -- it's acivil case. It's a civil contract. And the law ofcontracts historically has been that contractual terms canbe violated without regard to any inquiry into the stateof mind of the contracting parties.QUESTION: What -- what about other civilforfeiture actions? Are you familiar with any -- anyothers of those that don't contain a scienter requirement?MR. FELDMAN: I'm not sure -- well, underFederal law, I'm not sure. There is now generally aFederal knowledge -- ignorant owner defense under theFederal forfeiture statute.QUESTION: Was that --MR. FELDMAN: State -- in the United States --in Bennis against Michigan, I don't think there was such a th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC -- there was such a provision. But I think the key point is this is completelydifferent from forfeiture. Forfeiture involves someonewho has a property interest that the Government had -- hasnothing to do with and the Government is given the rightto take that property interest. This is a case where thetenants never had a property interest in occupancy oftheir -- of their apartment in violation of the lease. And this is a case in which the Government is saying thisis our property and we're going to let you use it undercertain -- use and occupy it under certain circumstances. QUESTION: Is it your position that theGovernment can place any terms and conditions whatever onleases as long as it doesn't violate some otherconstitutional provision like the First Amendment? MR. FELDMAN: Yes, I think that is our position.QUESTION: And so this is a condition that theGovernment has the right to impose. Is that your basicposition? MR. FELDMAN: That's right. And --QUESTION: Then you don't need reliance onBennis at all.MR. FELDMAN: No, no. Our position is this isfundamentally different from forfeiture. Forfeitureinvolves tens of millions of leasehold and fee interests th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC throughout the country. This involves a -- a muchnarrower slice of property interests in -- of -- of --QUESTION: Whether it involves a narrower or abroader slice really doesn't make any difference. It'sjust a different kind of relationship. MR. FELDMAN: Right. It's a fundamentallydifferent kind of relationship. This is the Government'sproperty to start off with. It is saying, you can use theproperty subject to certain conditions. QUESTION: I guess I'm still -- I guess I'mstill puzzled by why a tenant can sign a lease and thenchallenge it. I mean, what's the -- is -- is he sayingthat Federal law that binds the housing authority issomehow invalid? And how does he have standing to do thatif the housing authority agrees?MR. FELDMAN: I think that the tenant's position-- I suppose the tenant -- you'd have to ask my opponent,but I think the tenant's position here is that this leaseprovision which embodies the -- the HUD rule of -- therule that Congress enacted concerning that there was noinnocent owner defense, that that is itself not authorizedby Federal law or not permitted by Federal law andtherefore was an invalid condition. I assume that that'swhat their position is. QUESTION: The position of the Government in -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC in saying that any misuse by any guest, whether on or offthe premises, will result in a forfeiture does seem tooperate in a rather draconian fashion in some of theexamples we've been given in the briefs. And one wonderswhy the Government wants to take such a -- an extremeposition even though it lawfully could.MR. FELDMAN: I think most -- I would say thatmost of the examples that are given in -- that are givenin the amicus briefs supporting respondent are ones thatare based on third-hand hearsay, and I'm not sure thatthey're accurate accounts of those events, but --QUESTION: Well, but if they are, they soundpretty draconian. MR. FELDMAN: I think the underlying point isthat Congress was facing a very serious problem, and ithad essentially three choices. It could have said, we aregoing to have a Federal zero tolerance policy and that'sall. It could have done what it did, which is vest localpublic housing authorities with this tool, a contractualprovision that permits them to get people out when there'sa serious problem or -- or when -- when it's necessary toensure the peaceful enjoyment of the premises by the othertenant. Or it could have adopted a code of under whatcircumstances you can and can't evict, and then left it upto the -- it would be leave -- left up to the courts to th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC see whether the particular facts satisfy that code ordon't satisfy that code. I think Congress took the only course that wasworkable. If they -- if Congress had gone farther and ifCongress had enacted the statute that the court of appealsthinks it enacted, then it would not be much of a tool forpublic housing authorities because in each case, thequestion, for example, of the tenant's knowledge would belitigated. The tenant would likely deny knowledge. Thehousehold members would deny knowledge. The whole thingwouldn't --QUESTION: Mr. Feldman, how can you say that'sso when the district court -- the injunction was he'sdrawing a line between on premises and off premises. Andthe injunction doesn't cover anything that happens on thepremises. As far as that's concerned, the eviction holds. So, it's only the cases where the third person does a drugdeal or whatever off premises. And we had one case in theparking lot, another case in a bar. But as far as insidethe premises, there is no case being made. There's --nobody is saying that -- at least as I understand it, thatthe district judge didn't go far enough. MR. FELDMAN: That -- that's correct. But theproblem is that in fact drug-related criminal activitythat occurs, for example, in the parking lot of a housing th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC project can be more threatening to the peaceful enjoymentof the premises by the other tenants than what would --might occur in the apartment. And the same with conductthat occurs nearby. I think the point is that Congress was facedwith it and public housing authorities were faced with theproblem of very serious violence that the court of appealssaid that public housing projects in many areas had becomewar zones and drug markets. And they wanted a -- apractical, effective way to be sure that public housingauthorities can take those households that are causing theproblem and remove them and replace them with otherhouseholds of the many, many households who are on thewaiting list and who wouldn't cause the problems. QUESTION: But you say this is -- a housingauthority may not must. MR. FELDMAN: That's correct.QUESTION: And I think in your brief, as well asin Judge O'Scannlain's opinion for the original panel,there was a suggestion that the housing authority shouldbe equitable in the way it administers it, that itshouldn't evict every time it theoretically could. And myquestion to you is, in recommending that kind of equitablediscretion to be exercised, do you envision that to be anunreviewable discretion or would there be court review of th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC the housing authority's determination, say, in these casesnot to exercise equitable discretion? MR. FELDMAN: I don't think there would bebecause I think Congress -- the way the scheme works isthis is a provision in a lease which is a sort ofcontract. And there is -- the law of contracts is that acontracting party may enforce its lease -- its leaseprovisions -- Congress was surely aware of that -- when itwants. And ordinarily whether it's a Federal contract, agovernment contract, or a private contract, the courtdoesn't inquire into what are the reasons why you'reenforcing your -- your lease provision here. They justinquire -- or your contractual provision. They justinquire has the contract been breached or has it not beenbreached. And I think again that that was the onlyworkable way for this scheme to work. Now, in some instances, there may be a publichousing authority faced with some of the really extremeconditions that came out in congressional hearings andthat are discussed throughout the papers here that maydecide that a zero tolerance policy is the only way toassure that this -- the drugs are going to be cleaned outof the housing unit and that the housing -- the householdsthat are causing the problem are going to be replaced withsome of the other ones on the waiting list that won't th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC cause the problem. QUESTION: Do I understand --MR. FELDMAN: There -- there might be othercases where that's not appropriate. QUESTION: But you did take the position thathere and now with this, that the housing authority shouldnot evict automatically, that they should do it on a case-by-case basis. Or am I wrong in saying --MR. FELDMAN: I think what -- well, you know, Ihesitate to say yes to that because I think what -- ourposition is that the housing authority has the discretionto enforce these provisions or not, and there may be caseswhere zero tolerance policy is necessary or required, inwhich case that's what they should do.QUESTION: But the discretion is unreviewableand in the -- in the final analysis, as I understand yourargument, it doesn't have to exercise any discretion atall. It can zero tolerance across the board. MR. FELDMAN: They -- it could say zerotolerance across the board. QUESTION: And if -- if you say it's reviewableby the courts, talk about an unworkable system. Thatwould be it. MR. FELDMAN: That's correct because you -- withrespect to the particular issue of knowledge that's at th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC issue here, as I said, it's going to be very hard for ahousing authority, which is not a criminal prosecutionagency -- they're in the business of running housing --housing developments, not prosecuting crimes -- to provewho had exactly what state of mind or who had what levelof control. Indeed, both respondents in the court of appealssuggest that if the tenant -- even if the tenant knew, ifthe tenant couldn't control the drug-related activity,that that would also be a defense. Well, that would, insome cases, allow exactly the families and the householdsthat are causing the biggest problem for the -- for their-- for their neighbors and for the truly innocent tenantsto remain, and there would be nothing the public housingauthority could do. But I think, in general, what Congress wantedwas to give public housing authorities a tool that wouldbe actually useful in remedying the very serious problemof not only drug -- drug-related criminal activity butother criminal activity in public housing units.The underlying principle really is one ofhousehold-wide responsibility. No one -- no one suggeststhat if the -- everybody agrees, let me put it that way,that if the tenant is -- engages in drug-related criminalactivity, that the whole household can be removed from the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC unit. But in a very real sense, although the legalrelationship is between the housing authority and thetenant, the practical relationship is they're giving thatwhole household the right to occupy the Governmentpremises. And it's just the very same rule. It's whoeverin that household has used -- has engaged in criminaldrug-related activity, that person is liable to be removedfrom the tenancy because it -- that person violated alease term. QUESTION: Mr. Feldman, how do you answer thatthe statute doesn't say anything about the duration oftime or the place? I mean, the hypothetical that the --let's say the grandson could have dealt with drugs yearsago or could have done it in L.A. and this housing projectis in Massachusetts.MR. FELDMAN: In terms of time, I think thatthere -- generally the statute doesn't say anything abouttime, and I think it would be open to HUD to fill in a --in a gap, although certainly a very broad period of timewould be -- would be suggested. It wouldn't be a veryshort --QUESTION: But you're saying the part of theunreviewable discretion is it could be years ago.MR. FELDMAN: That's -- that's correct, but that-- that -- it was not -- the issue of time and place -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC and let me say place is addressed in the statute becauseCongress -- originally it said on or near, and Congressamended in to say on or off. So, the one thing we doknow is that place is not something that was relevant.And again -- actually if I can turn to place fora second, you could have a drug crime that occurs ,miles away, and ordinarily -- and I think it would neverbe -- I don't know of any case where anyone has been triedto be evicted. It's a very theoretical possibility thatanybody would be. But if that crime was that that personwas trying to import drugs and bring them to that person'sunit in the housing complex, it would be highly relevant.And what Congress intended was that public housingauthorities have the tool to take care of the problemsthat they saw. They're not evicting people who are -- whoare engaged in drug crimes , miles away or yearsbefore.Respondents rely and the court of appeals reliedon the forfeiture provision. I've already said that theforfeiture raises a completely different issue. And thefact that -- it is true that Congress added leaseholdinterest to the forfeiture statute in it -- when it --when it rewrote this statute in , although it didn'tsubstantively change the terms of the statute. But Ithink the -- it's very express innocent owner defense th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC that's in the lease -- in the forfeiture statute contrastsvery sharply with the absence of not only any such defensebut even any word that suggests such a defense in thisstatute. The doctrine of in pari materia, which theyappeal to, can sometimes be used where you have aparticular term in a statute that in a closely relatedstatute is either defined or, by context, has a very clearmeaning and the same meaning then is -- is imported. It'squite a different thing here where -- this is a -- theforfeiture statute is entirely different from --QUESTION: Well, it runs up against expressiounius too, doesn't it --MR. FELDMAN: Right.QUESTION: -- as a --MR. FELDMAN: Right, and -- and I think in thiscase where there's no word in this statute that requiresthat -- that requires interpretation and the context thatyou're trying to take the meaning from is quite a -- anentirely different context, I don't think that that inpari materia is soundly applied. In fact, I think justthe contrast between the statutes clearly points outCongress' -- what Congress intended. The -- the -- you know, I'd add that this --this -- the rationale of this statute ensures not only th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC that there's the maximum incentive for tenants in publichousing to ensure that their household members and theythemselves are not engaged in drug-related activity and tofind out about that activity rather than remainingignorant, but in the end, it ensures that households inGovernment subsidized housing who are a threat to theirneighbors or who may be a threat to their neighbors in theview of the public housing authority, that they areremoved and that -- and replaced with others of the manyfamilies who are on the list who would not pose such athreat.Finally, the court of appeals also relied on thedoctrine of constitutional avoidance, but this statute isclear and there's no warrant for applying that doctrine. And in any event, there isn't any serious constitutionalproblem with interpreting it as HUD has. Although thetenants have a property interest in their lease, that is-- that entitles them to the right to the full proceduraldue process protections before the lease is terminated,but it doesn't govern what the substantive terms of thelease are. QUESTION: They can litigate that in theunlawful detainer action.MR. FELDMAN: That's right, and they have theright to litigate all of the issues that would come up in th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC the unlawful detainer action, but it doesn't -- the -- thefact that they have a property interest in their leasedoesn't, in turn, give them a property interest in actingin ways substantively that are contrary to the terms oftheir lease. If there are no further questions, I'd like toreserve the balance of my time.QUESTION: Very well, Mr. Feldman.Mr. Lafayette, we'll hear from you.ORAL ARGUMENT OF GARY T. LAFAYETTEON BEHALF OF THE PRIVATE PETITIONERSMR. LAFAYETTE: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court:In response to Congress' enactment ofd(l)() and HUD's regulations, the Oakland HousingAuthority revised its lease to properly reflect thechanges that had taken place with regard to the HUDregulations. And it specifically did that in threeinstances. It revised the lease at paragraph (m) and itrevised the occupants' responsibility statement, and thenit revised what is known as the tenant agreement tomaintain a drug-free environment. In each instance, it -- it advised each tenantand requested each tenant to sign a statementacknowledging that they clearly understood that if this th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC type of conduct took place within their apartment or offhousing authority property, that they could be subjectedto a lease cancellation. In this case, we came forward with fourindividuals whose leases were canceled because of thisparticular type of activity. And the housing authority'sposition is it was necessary for it to take the actionwith regard to each one of these particular individualsbecause of the conduct that they were participating in orthe conduct of individuals in their households wereparticipating in, which conduct which posed a significantrisk of injury to other members of the housing authorityand to the community in which these particulardevelopments are located. QUESTION: Mr. Lafayette, how big a problem isthis in this housing authority? MR. LAFAYETTE: It's a -- it's a significantproblem. One of the things that we've pointed out in ourmoving -- in -- in our merits brief was that this is ahousing authority that has approximately , individualswho are scattered in , low income to moderate incomehousing units. From until November of this pastyear, there were felony arrests for drug-relatedcriminal activity in or near Oakland Housing Authorityproperty. Significantly, between January , and th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC November , , the number of felony arrests was fordrug-related activity. That's a significant sum.One of the things that I think is alsosignificant is that this is a housing authority that doesnot necessarily have large housing development complexes.A number of its developments are smaller units. Forexample, in the Hill and Lee cases, those are individualswho resided in -- in a development that is approximatelyeight units, eight units in a neighborhood that iscomprised almost exclusively of single family dwellings. When these individuals participate in this drug activityin the front of that unit, it is not only affecting themembers of the housing authority community itself, it isaffecting the general community at large and all theindividuals there. And significantly we need to point out that weresponded there not because we happened to be driving by,but the response was -- was premised on a complaint beingmade. And that's part of the record. So, what'shappening is this housing authority is responding tocomplaints made by residents, and one of the things thatwe point out is this housing authority has been subjectedto litigation by -- being made by its residents demandingthat the housing authority take more affirmative actionand steps to address these issues of drug and drug-related th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC activity. In -- it seems to me -- to me that there is noissue that in each one of these particular cases there wasjust cause for the housing authority to go forward and --and to exercise this discretion reasonably and that it didso. And one of the things that -- that seems to appear isthe question of whether or not it is exercisingdiscretion, and we always point the Court to the case ofPearlie Rucker because that's a case where the housingauthority initially proceeded with termination of thatlease and, in the process of doing so, came to understandthat the individual in the household who was participatingin the drug activity, Gelinda Rucker, was a person who hadactually become incarcerated and therefore no longer poseda risk of injury to the remainder of the housing authorityor the community. Realizing that, the agency at thatpoint discontinued its efforts to dismiss that -- toterminate that lease. And at the time this lawsuit wasactually filed, there was no longer a pending disputebetween the housing authority and Pearlie Rucker who wasthe -- who was the tenant responsible for that lease.QUESTION: But that was not required of thehousing authority, and if they had gone and said, well, wedon't care that circumstances have changed, out you go,that would be unreviewable. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. LAFAYETTE: That would be unreviewable. Andthe reason for that is the housing authority needs thediscretion to act where it believes it is necessary for itto act. And in each one of these instances, this housingauthority has come forward with that position. Andwithout that discretion, a housing authority would bestrapped to look for and to document events that requireit to move or compel it to move or would set some -- wouldmeet someone else's satisfaction of when it should move. And those things may not be present from the informationthat it might have before it. The -- and one of the things we think that --that Congress recognized, that housing authorities are notas well equipped as are the Federal Government in order torespond to these types of issues, particularly with regardto the loss of additional funds to cities. With that inmind, it is significant that this housing authority hasresponded in the way that it has responded. We -- we have -- have listened to the SolicitorGeneral's discussion this morning, and we are in accordwith regard to the position that he has taken with regardto what Congress intended and how Congress went aboutevaluating the various needs of residents of publichousing. One of the things that I think that needs to be th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC clearly stated is that the housing authority itself doesnot benefit from a statute like this because the housingauthority is only going to take that apartment unit and tore-lease that apartment unit out to someone else who is inneed of low income public housing. The housing authorityhas this provision in its lease because, one, there --it's required by the HUD regulations, and number two, itneeds to be able to provide its residents with safe anddecent housing, which is what this is really all about, ishow it goes about providing safe and decent housing.QUESTION: Do you take the position that youcould have this provision in the lease even without theFederal statute?MR. LAFAYETTE: There is nothing that restrainsus from putting this provision in this lease before that. And in fact, prior to -- though not part of the record,prior to this provision being enacted by Congress, therewas a similar provision in the lease itself. It just didnot embrace the concept of activity off of housingauthority property. The provision was amended after the-- after Congress acted.QUESTION: That -- that in premises has not --has never been an issue in this case, I take it. MR. LAFAYETTE: In premises has not, but inpremises alone does not address the problem with regard to th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC this type of activity in public housing. It's notunforeseeable that individuals who participate in thisconduct off premises may not lead those who have issueswith them onto housing authority property and therebyjeopardize the interest and the -- the right to enjoymentof the other residents. With that, I'll reserve the rest of my timefor --QUESTION: May I ask one question, if you'rethrough? Is there any procedure at all to -- I'm pointing-- I'm referring to the fact that the housing authorityhas such broad discretion. They can not only makecharges, but they can decide to waive them. Is there anyprocedure at all to be sure that that power isn't abusedby waiving it in cases of all Democrats but enforcing itfor all Republicans or something like that? MR. LAFAYETTE: There -- there isn't a procedurein place for anyone to review these decisions based onsome arbitrariness standard. No, there isn't. QUESTION: Well, but I mean, in the preciseinstance that Justice Stevens gave you, that would be aconstitutional violation, wouldn't it? MR. LAFAYETTE: If --QUESTION: And you -- you would have judicialreview for -- for violation of some constitutional th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC provision. MR. LAFAYETTE: It's foreseeable if there is aconstitutional issue. If, for example, this -- thispolicy is only being used against people of a particularrace --QUESTION: Of course. MR. LAFAYETTE: -- then those issues could bereviewable. QUESTION: Right.MR. LAFAYETTE: But --QUESTION: What? In a action against thehousing authority? Is that what -- what would -- howwould it be? MR. LAFAYETTE: That could be and it could be a violation against the housing authority. QUESTION: Well, wouldn't it have to be on yourview? Wouldn't it have to be in a separate action onthe -- on the view that you take? MR. LAFAYETTE: It could be -- landlord-tenantdisputes in California are summary proceedings whichparticularly dovetail into the issues in dispute, and itprobably would be a separate action as a claim. Butone of the things we don't have here is a claim that saysthat these individuals are being singled out for leasecancellation because of their race or some other suspect th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC classification.Thank you. QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. Lafayette. Mr. Renne, we'll hear from you.ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAUL A. RENNEON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTSMR. RENNE: Mr. Chief Justice, may it please theCourt:In this case, as we've heard in -- in theargument of HUD is that HUD says, by reason of this leaseprovision, which Congress mandated in section d(l)(),it is the judge and jury as to whether or not innocenttenants, such as the -- the respondents who are beforethis Court, whether they can be summarily evicted fromtheir homes. QUESTION: Well, that doesn't really differ fromthe role of any landlord in a landlord-tenant situation,does it? MR. RENNE: Yes, Your -- Chief Justice, it doesbecause what they're saying is that there can be nodefenses raised in the eviction proceeding other than anattack on whether or not there was a drug-relatedviolation.QUESTION: Well, but as the Chief Justice pointsout, that's true in -- I've drafted many leases and we th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC have clauses --QUESTION: Absolutely.QUESTION: -- that this premises is used forcommercial purposes.QUESTION: Regional eighths.QUESTION: The lease is void and that's -- andthat's it. Now, you may say that -- you can argue aboutwhether or not the -- the provision itself was violated,but I know of no authority where it says where the lessorcan't exercise this option. MR. RENNE: Justice Kennedy, under most Statelaws, the eviction court has a right to make adetermination whether under all the facts andcircumstances to -- to terminate the lease would be, forexample, a forfeiture because of the violation not beingsufficient or the circumstances such as -- that don'tbring it under those terms. Now, what -- and interesting enough, we heardnothing about it, but Congress also mandated --QUESTION: We just don't have before us aquestion in which you're contesting that the drug activityoccurred.MR. RENNE: Yes, but the Congress mandated thatin any action taken to evict, HUD, or the Oakland HousingAuthority in this case, had to provide some grievance th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC mechanism of an independent evaluation whether evictionshould occur. However, it said that HUD can grant dueprocess exemptions under the circumstances where HUD makesan affirmative determination that the eviction courtprovides due process to the tenant.QUESTION: This wasn't the basis of the NinthCircuit's decision, was it? MR. RENNE: Yes. The -- the Ninth Circuit talksin terms of the -- of the opportunity to present defenses.Now, what the Ninth Circuit was going on, it wassaying that there's nothing in the statute -- and it wasCongress' intent not to take away an innocent tenantdefense. And that would be presented to the evictioncourt. And Congress has provided for the eviction courtto have a right to hear all legal and equitable defenses.QUESTION: Well, this doesn't sound to me likethe Ninth Circuit's reasoning at all. Perhaps I'mmistaken.MR. RENNE: Well, it -- it is, Your Honor, ifyou look at what the Ninth Circuit is saying. The NinthCircuit is saying that that section does not take away aninnocent tenant defense.QUESTION: Where does it come from in the firstplace? QUESTION: Well, where did -- exactly. Where th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC did it come from in the first place? MR. RENNE: The innocent tenant defense? QUESTION: Yes. MR. RENNE: From the -- the statute whichprovides that in eviction proceedings, the eviction courtshall provide an opportunity for the tenant to present alllegal and equitable defenses. QUESTION: Yes, but the question is whether ornot this is a legal defense. QUESTION: Yes. QUESTION: That's the only question before us.MR. RENNE: That's correct. And, Your Honor, itis our position that it is a legal defense that isrecognized in most State court proceedings.QUESTION: But it's not recognized in theFederal statute or in the regulations. That's theproblem. This is manufactured by the Ninth Circuit. Itisn't there. MR. RENNE: The -- the statute doesn't sayanything about defenses. The statute is only sayinghere's a lease provision that you shall put into thelease. HUD's own regulations say, if you want to enforceit, you have to go to an eviction court, and the evictioncourt has a right to consider all equitable legaldefenses. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: But these tenants didn't let it getto that stage. They preempted it and filed some kind of asuit to get an injunction before there had ever been aproceeding. MR. RENNE: That's correct. And that was on thepoint that it was a violation of the -- of what powerCongress had given HUD to interpret the statute which istotally silent. It says nothing about defenses. And whenyou look at what happened at the same time when Congressenacted that particular provision in , it was the sametime in which it took public housing leases, put themunder the forfeiture statute, and said under forfeiturestatutes, you must provide an innocent tenant defense.QUESTION: Why didn't it say that here? I mean,you -- this suggests that when Congress said nothing aboutthe defense here, it meant the defense didn't exist. Where it wanted the defense --QUESTION: It put it in. QUESTION: -- it specified it. And you say theysay nothing about it. They say nothing about it becauseit didn't exist. MR. RENNE: I -- I submit the reason why theydidn't is because landlord-tenant law is a -- in publichousing is a amalgamation of Federal and State law, andthat's well recognized in all the cases. They knew, at th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC the time that they passed section d(l)(), that therewas also the provisions that said legal and equitabledefenses may be presented. They were not -- they were notfocusing on what defenses are available. QUESTION: These provisions are -- that saylegal and equitable defense can be presented are -- appearin Federal law or in State law? MR. RENNE: They appear in HUD's regulations. In the -- they can only grant a due process exemption ifthey find that the State eviction court gives the tenantan opportunity to present legal and equitable defenses. Congress, when it was passes -- passing section --QUESTION: And you think this is anauthorization for all sorts of defenses? MR. RENNE: Absolutely. Whatever defenses arerecognized by the eviction court.QUESTION: Then you are going considerablybeyond where the district court left off. And thedistrict court made a distinction between on premises andoff premises, and it didn't give any injunction withrespect to on premises. Your argument doesn't have thatlimitation. Your argument is equitable defense ofinnocence; I didn't know. And it doesn't draw any line atall between in and off premises. So, you are asking this th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Court to take -- to state a rule of law that would goconsiderably beyond the district court injunction that wasthen reviewed by the Ninth Circuit. You're asking us, in-- in effect, to reverse the district court because itdidn't go far enough, if I understand your argument. MR. RENNE: I believe you are correct, JusticeGinsburg, that we believe that that defense of a totallyinnocent tenant should be available whether the offenseoccurred off or on the premises just as it does in theforfeiture statute.QUESTION: Did you object in the Ninth Circuitbecause the district court didn't go far enough?MR. RENNE: I don't believe so, Your Honor.QUESTION: A very odd procedural posture you'rein. You're trying to overturn your victory in thedistrict court.MR. RENNE: I'm not trying to overturn it, YourHonor, I suggest, but I would be perfectly happy if thisCourt addressed just the off premises, which is what thedistrict court held. But the whole --QUESTION: But you say there's no logical linethat one could draw. On your -- if your theory isinnocent tenant is a defense, then how can you defend thatdefense for off premises only?MR. RENNE: The -- the Ninth Circuit didn't draw th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC that line either. The Ninth Circuit took the positionthat the innocent tenant defense was not precluded and infact was preserved under that --QUESTION: I thought the Ninth Circuit affirmedthe district court's judgment.MR. RENNE: That is correct. QUESTION: And the district court said the --there is no problem with on premises. Off premises iswhat's unreasonable.MR. RENNE: What the district court said is, I'mnot going to issue an injunction for on premises. Might Irespectfully submit what the court was saying there wasthat the balancing and the clearness of the likelihood ofprevailing was not necessarily clear as he felt it was atthe -- at the off premises, so that in the context of apreliminary injunction, he did not make a ruling as amatter of law at the end of the day that that -- that hewould adhere to the position that he was taking forpurposes of the injunction. QUESTION: But you said there's no difference atall. So, it would be just as arbitrary. I mean, if -- ifyou say innocent -- innocence is the defense, the innocenttenant, then whether it's preliminary injunction orpermanent injunction, it's a line that you say cannotlogically stand. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. RENNE: On the facts that were before thedistrict court judge, all he had to deal with, forpurposes of the injunction, was the -- the off premises. And I respectfully submit it's not a final judgment thathe was addressing. He was addressing what's thelikelihood of success.Admittedly -- and I don't -- I think we allrecognize that if there's an offense on the premises, thelikelihood of a innocent tenant defense being successfulis far less, but in the case where you have someone, likethe three female respondents in this case who are long-time tenants who have had no problems -- and certainly theOakland Housing Authority is not arguing they had problemswith them -- and you have a grandson who smokes cigarettesin the parking lot, and HUD takes a position -- andOakland Housing Authority takes a position that we canapply some kind of collective guilt because, regardless ofwhat the Government wants to say and characterize it as acontract action, the end result to these three respondentsand the innocent -- innocent members of the household isto throw them into the streets.QUESTION: You think it's irrelevant that thetenants signed a contract which specifically provides thisin the -- in the rider. It's at page a of the appendix. You think that that's just irrelevant. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. RENNE: No, Justice Kennedy, it's notirrelevant. The --QUESTION: I -- I frankly don't understand your-- your standing to contest the housing authority'sinterpretation of a HUD regulation anyway. You justsigned a lease that -- that HUD gave you and that's it.MR. RENNE: The -- the question is -- and Ithink the contract question is way circular, that if -- ifCongress did not mandate that it's an automatic evictionwith no opportunity to present any kind of a defense, ifCongress didn't mandate it, the fact that it's in thelease doesn't change it. You still have to get to -- thequestion is did section d(l)() -- did it mandate? And it would be the only section of the lease.QUESTION: Well, but I'm not sure you're correctin your argument there, Mr. Renne, because perhaps you --if you had a prohibition against that sort of a thing inthe statute, certainly HUD would be bound by it. But withno -- no provision one way or the other, certainly that'ssomething that HUD is entitled to interpret, and it hasinterpreted it by its regulations. MR. RENNE: The -- but it's also, in itsregulations, said that the tenant has a right in theeviction court to present equitable and legal defenses.QUESTION: But as Justice O'Connor said, you th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC never let it get to the eviction court. The -- it wasn'tlitigated as to whether the lease should be revoked ornot. All that was litigated was whether HUD had a rightto put this provision in its lease.MR. RENNE: I respectfully submit, Mr. ChiefJustice, that is not what they litigated. They litigatedthat they did not have a right to terminate -- toterminate an innocent tenant, not to put that in theirlease. That -- there's nobody saying that they can't putthe provision in their lease. The question is -- and --and nobody is disputing that there is a serious problem ofdrugs in public housing, and we aren't -- we aren'tsuggesting anything to the contrary. But I suggest thatthe respondents and the way they're being treated by theOakland Housing Authority are making them victims as well.QUESTION: Well, but they're being treated inaccordance with the provisions of their lease. And youordinarily can't come into a court and say, gee, you know,you're putting these tenants out on the street if in factthey've breached their lease in a way that permits thelandlord to do that. MR. RENNE: But again, with all due respect,that's assuming the answer, and that is that the leasedoes say that you can't present an innocent tenantdefense. And again I go back to -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: Well, that's a different -- now thatNinth -- that's -- finally you're talking about somethingthe Ninth Circuit talked about, and it seems to me thatthat's just absolutely dead wrong. Page of theappendix has a rider, a supplemental provision of somekind, which makes it crystal clear that there is noinnocent defense.MR. RENNE: But the -- if you are suggestingthat the tenant has any choice in a public housingsituation in which the -- the only choice of housing theyhave is public housing, to say that somehow or other theyhave agreed to a provision which Congress didn't require.QUESTION: Well, but -- but now -- now you'reskating away from the point where we were finally atissue. You said the lease doesn't provide this, and --but now your answer is, well, even if it did, itshouldn't. I mean, that's just -- that's just notresponsive to my point.MR. RENNE: My -- Justice Kennedy, what I wassaying is that section of the -- of the statutedidn't require the language that they are putting in.QUESTION: But under -- under your theory, youhave to show not just that it didn't require it, but thatHUD could not, as an administrative agency, interpret itto allow that. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. RENNE: And I believe --QUESTION: It seems to me your argument -- when-- when you have to argue that point, the argument, as Iregard the Ninth Circuit opinion, is just extremely weak.MR. RENNE: I address that in three ways. Oneis that I believe that when you look at the circumstancesunder which that section was passed in conjunction with, the forfeiture statute, you look at the -- whatlittle comments were made by any committees that wereaddressing it, and when you look at the alleged rationale,none of them support HUD. But even more basic, if youaccept HUD's interpretation, we respectfully submit thatit raises serious constitutional issues. QUESTION: And precisely what are those issues?MR. RENNE: The due process issues, Your Honor,in that what they are threatening to do is to attachpunishment and collective guilt, and in Americanjurisprudence, we always put individual --QUESTION: If you're -- you're saying if you're-- if you're evicted from a tenant -- as a tenant from apublic housing, you are, A, punished, and B, you're foundcollectively guilty?MR. RENNE: You are certainly being punished,and Rucker being thrown out in the street is certainlybeing punished. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: Well, then -- then every evictionproceeding in the country punishes the tenant. Everysuccessful eviction proceeding. MR. RENNE: And it's because the tenant hassupposedly violated and the eviction court has found,based upon all the evidence that it hears, that evictionis appropriate. QUESTION: Well, we're just going in circles,Mr. --QUESTION: You -- as I understand the provisionthat you object to, it -- it says, in effect, the -- thetenant who signs the lease is going to be the guarantorthat there will be no drug activity in the apartment or byother people who are -- are inhabitants or even people whocome to the apartment, going to be a guarantor. Are yousaying that that kind of a guarantee provision is simplyforbidden by the Constitution? MR. RENNE: Under these circumstances, yes. QUESTION: Why?MR. RENNE: In -- for the same reason that Ibelieve this Court has at least indicated in -- in dicta,that when you are essentially seizing what is property,particularly somebody's home, you must afford them dueprocess including --QUESTION: Well, we're -- now, you're talking th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC about procedural due process, and there's no claim here,as I understand it, that the tenants were deniedprocedural due process. I understand your argument to bethat substantive due process forbids this kind of aguarantee provision, and when I say why, I'm asking youwhy substantively does due process forbid. MR. RENNE: And substantively is that you are --you are punishing without any guilt and without allowingthe tenant to establish that he or she is innocent.QUESTION: So, no one can be made the guarantorunder a contract for the conduct of a third person.MR. RENNE: Not in public housing --QUESTION: -- from the Government. Is that --is that --MR. RENNE: In the public housing situation.QUESTION: Is that your position?MR. RENNE: That is correct.QUESTION: Then you're challenging somethingthat you have, as I see it, no standing to raise in thisCourt because I looked back at the district court'sopinion, and what it said as to conduct occurring in thetenant's union -- unit -- it didn't say, well, we justwon't extend it preliminarily. It said, eviction undersuch circumstances appears rationally related to alegitimate public housing goal and constitutional. It was th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC a ruling on the merits that as far as the in premisessetting is concerned, it was constitutional. And you'rearguing that that's not the case, and I don't see how youcan argue that when you haven't filed any cross appealever.MR. RENNE: Well, with all due respect, JusticeGinsburg, the cases in this Court have said thatrespondents are entitled to rely on anything that wouldaffirm the judgment below.QUESTION: But the judgment below that's beingaffirmed deals only with off premises. MR. RENNE: It's the Ninth Circuit judgment thatis being attacked, and the Ninth Circuit does not limititself in terms of the arguments that it raises and it --conclusions it reached --QUESTION: Are you not making a distinctionbetween a judgment and an opinion? I mean, what wasaffirmed was the judgment of the district court.MR. RENNE: What was affirmed was thepreliminary injunction. QUESTION: Yes, and that preliminary injunctionwas only with respect to off premises activity, and that'sall that the Ninth Circuit affirmed. MR. RENNE: Yes, I don't disagree with that atall. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC But the rationale of the Ninth Circuit opinionapplies with equal force because the only thing they hadbefore them is whether or not the district court hadabused its discretion in the grant of preliminaryinjunction.But continuing to address the -- the due processis that all we are saying is that these tenants have aright to establish that they should not be punished byreason of somebody else's conduct without a showing --QUESTION: Well, I -- I realize that's yourposition, but in order to maintain that position on asubstantive due process basis, you've got to say, Isuppose, that there's no reasonable relationship betweenthis kind of guarantor of conduct provision and the kindof drug problem which I presume it is conceded theGovernment can deal with. And it seems to me that there'sa pretty obvious substantial relationship between them andthat's why your argument doesn't seem to have any sort ofintuitive plausibility to it. Can you address that?MR. RENNE: Well, I don't think that -- when yousay it seems to be obvious, with all due respect again, Iwould say they talk about deterrent. It seems to me thatMs. Pearlie Rucker who took steps to assure that therewere no violations, told her daughter there were no --what the problems were, and as far as she knew, knew th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC nothing about what happened three blocks away from theapartment.QUESTION: Well, she didn't take enough stepsunder the lease. Under the lease she assured the housingauthority that her premises would not be the site of drugactivity nor would anybody who brought drug activity intothe housing -- into the environs of the housing authoritybe residing in her --MR. RENNE: And --QUESTION: Now, she could do that, and you'resaying she was blameless. Well, perhaps she wasblameless, but she didn't do what she had committed to do,and that is to make sure that nobody in her apartmentcaused that place to be a drug area. There seems to me nothing unconstitutional aboutthat, saying we're going to let you in here if you assureus that no one who resides in the -- in the premises thatwe're giving you under this program will be the source ofa drug problem. What's unconstitutional about that? MR. RENNE: I suggest that we took -- we take --compare it to the forfeiture statute where we havespecifically -- Congress has mandated that in theforfeiture situation where the drug offense can be -- onthe premises can be horrible, it can be a very seriousdrug offense, and they cannot forfeit the tenancy. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: Congress has said that. You thinkCongress had to say that?MR. RENNE: Yes.QUESTION: My goodness. I -- there are manyinstances under State law where you forfeit an automobilewhich is being used for contraband even if you do not knowthat it's being used. It's your responsibility to makesure your car is not used for contraband. That'sunconstitutional? MR. RENNE: And the -- the -- it's not -- thisCourt has held it is not --QUESTION: Not --MR. RENNE: -- if there's a nexus either becausethe automobile was used --QUESTION: It's your car. And -- and what theState says is when you have a car, it's yourresponsibility to make sure it's not used for contraband,and if it is, we take it away. That's notunconstitutional. Why is this any different? In fact,this is a good deal less because it's not even herpremises. It is a condition of giving her this benefit.MR. RENNE: Well, I -- I think the courtsrecognized that it is her premises. It's her homeregardless of the fact that it's a public housing or it'sprivate. And as I believe that this Court has commented th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC in opinions that you don't forfeit a house if somebodysmokes one marijuana cigarette in it --QUESTION: But --MR. RENNE: -- even though it may have occurredon the premises.QUESTION: -- forfeiture suggests the Governmentcoming in from the outside and taking the property becauseof criminal activity. Here the Government isn't coming infrom the outside. The Government is the owner of theproperty. It is the landlord. And so, you're not talkingabout the same sort of forfeiture at all. MR. RENNE: Well, talks specifically aboutpublic housing leases as being subject to forfeiture. So,you are -- in those contexts you're talking about theidentical situation that under the forfeiture statutesomebody could come in to Ms. Rucker, if she violated somecriminal law -- could come and try to forfeit it. Butit's much easier. Let's get the Oakland Housing Authorityto come in here and we don't have to show she knewanything about it. She could be perfectly innocent, andthat is, we submit is fundamentally unfair.QUESTION: Does the landlord have some duty toprovide a secure -- a secure premises, i.e., secure fromdrug use? MR. RENNE: Yes. And I -- and I submit that th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC easily enough to do as they said -- as -- as counsel saidwith Ms. Rucker. They said, we withdrew the unlawfuldetainer action, although I might say they didn't withdrawthe eviction notice, but they withdrew the unlawfuldetainer action when the individual who was involved wasseparated from the premises. That's what we respectfullysubmit is -- that's the easy problem in the innocenttenant case, is to go to that tenant or to have the tenantcome to HUD and say, look, I've got a problem. My son is-- is into marijuana and he won't listen to me. I wanthim removed. Take him off the household list. Now, is she going to do it confronted with thefact that HUD could say or Oakland Housing Authority couldsay, well, sorry, Ms. Rucker, rather than ask yourdaughter to go off, we're going to throw you out? Whywould she ever go there?QUESTION: The housing authority wants to putthe responsibility on her.MR. RENNE: Right. QUESTION: It wants to put the responsibility onthe tenants to make sure that they are not being the causeof a drug problem in the facility. It seems to meperfectly reasonable, and if she -- if she has been atfault in not doing that or even in all innocence hasn'tdone it properly, nonetheless, she hasn't fulfilled her th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC obligation under the lease, which is to make sure thatnobody on her premises is a source of a problem. MR. RENNE: And -- and the best way for -- tomake sure that that doesn't happen, that is, that no oneon her household violates a drug law or -- remember, thestatute doesn't just relate to drugs. It relates tocriminal activity. And as the amicus briefs point out,there -- and -- that there are spouses who are beingevicted by reason of the fact that they're subject tospousal abuse which violates the criminal law. And -- andall we're saying is they have to have a chance to go tothe eviction court and present that to the eviction courtso that the eviction court has a right to deal withwhether or not there is good cause. And it's interesting in the -- in the statutewe're talking about there is a -- in section , it talksabout repeated, constant violations and other good cause. When you get to , it only talks about shall be a causefor eviction. Good cause is the thing the eviction courtshould have a right to deal with, and there's nothing thatsaid the State law was being preempted. I'm suggesting that if -- if what HUD wants isto have voluntary cleanup by good people like Ms. Ruckerand Ms. Hill, Ms. Lee, they should encourage them to say,give us help to make sure that we can live with that th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC because I think we all know in the real world you'retalking about teenage grandsons, people who you don't knowexactly what they're doing from time to time, and for --for a grandmother to be told the only way you can assureyourself is make sure nobody else lives here, it's theonly way that -- that these people can assure themselvesthat they aren't going to get thrown out --QUESTION: Well, you're hypothesizing anexercise of discretion by HUD that's just not in therecord. MR. RENNE: All right. Thank you. QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. Renne.Mr. Feldman, you have minutes remaining.REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF JAMES A. FELDMANON BEHALF OF THE FEDERAL PETITIONERSMR. FELDMAN: Thank you. I'd first like to add that the -- the people --the people who had committed the drug offenses in thiscase were between ages and years old. They weren'tteenagers. The question of -- as to the relationship of --of Federal law and the -- the Federal law that waives --that permits HUD to waive the grievance procedure in thehousing authority and say you can just go to the evictioncourt -- and that law does provide that HUD has to -- it th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC can only permit that if it can ensure -- assure that theeviction court gives you full due process rights tolitigate whatever issues there are. And in that sense,Federal law does guarantee you the right to have all ofyour defenses litigated in the eviction proceeding if HUDis going to grant such a waiver, which it's done in States.QUESTION: And the eviction proceeding is in theState court? MR. FELDMAN: Yes, but what Federal law doesn'tdo is say that there's any particular defenses. As thequestion of what the defenses are that you have to havethe full right to litigate, that's a question of -- ofsubstantive Federal law. Now, in this case, the statute makes clear Ithink that serious -- that drug-related criminal activityis cause for termination of tenancy, and HUD has construedit to mean that. Now, the question then about -- the onlypossible source for a defense would be State law, and thequestion about for State law defense would be does thatconflict with either the Federal statute or the purposesCongress was trying to achieve. It wouldn't be possiblefor a State court to disagree with the balance thatCongress struck when it -- when it passed the statute. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC So, the only question would be, therefore, if you have anyState law defenses, they would have to be ones that don'tconflict with the judgment that Congress made thateviction under d(l)() is for serious -- it's for drug-- drug-related criminal activity by a household member.I'd like to add just one other point which is in U.S.C., section , which is kind of the statement ofpolicy right at the beginning of the United States HousingAct, it says, it is the policy of the United States -- andit names a bunch of things, which I'm not going to read. And it says, to vest in local public housing agencies themaximum amount of responsibility in the administration oftheir housing programs. It was those local public housingagencies that know what the conditions are, and that -- itis consistent with that that HUD has construed the statuteand Congress in fact enacted the statute to give them thediscretion with this clause, as with enforcement of rentclauses or any other clause, to decide when they should beenforced and when they should be enforced. That's not arole for the eviction court. Thank you. CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: Thank you, Mr.Feldman. The case is submitted. (Whereupon, at : p.m., the case in the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC above-entitled matter was submitted.) th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC 