 IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XWILLIAM ARTHUR KELLY, Petitioner ::v. : No. -SOUTH CAROLINA. :- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XWashington, D.C.Monday, November , The above-entitled matter came on for oralargument before the Supreme Court of the United States at: a.m.APPEARANCES:DAVID I. BRUCK, ESQ., Columbia, South Carolina; on behalfof the Petitioner.S. CREIGHTON WATERS, ESQ., Assistant Attorney General,Columbia, South Carolina; on behalf of theRespondent. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC C O N T E N T SORAL ARGUMENT OF DAVID I. BRUCK, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioner S. CREIGHTON WATERS, ESQ.On behalf of the Respondent REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OFDAVID I. BRUCK, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioner PAGE th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC P R O C E E D I N G S(: a.m.)CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: We'll hear argumentnext in No. -, William Arthur Kelly v. SouthCarolina.Mr. Bruck. ORAL ARGUMENT OF DAVID I. BRUCKON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERMR. BRUCK: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it pleasethe Court:For the second time this year, the Courtconsiders today South Carolina's compliance with yourdecision in Simmons v. South Carolina. The issue thistime is -- is the interpretation, if you will, the SouthCarolina Supreme Court has placed upon the futuredangerousness requirement of the Simmons decision,specifically whether, as the South Carolina Supreme Courtput it, future dangerousness was neither a logicalinference from the evidence nor was it injected into thiscase through the State's closing argument. QUESTION: Well, in -- in some sense -- and thisis what concerns me about your argument -- I -- I supposeat some level future dangerousness is -- is alwaysinferable from the fact of -- of a horrible crime.MR. BRUCK: I -- I think it is true that -- that th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC when a person is convicted beyond a reasonable doubt of anaggravated, death-eligible murder, it is -- it does nottake very much more to put the issue of futuredangerousness at issue. You can conceive of crimes -- Iparticularly suggest the example of an intrafamilial --that is, the murder of children by their mother where theperson with no prior record and no likelihood that thesituation will recur, where future dangerousness simplydoes not sound from the evidence. However, in -- there are also --QUESTION: We -- we are the ones that -- thatgave you this -- this category of future dangerousness. And it either makes sense or it doesn't. If -- if there'ssomething defensible about the category, it -- it seems tome that there would be a significant number of cases inwhich it doesn't apply. I -- I just don't see that fromyour argument. Now, maybe the category is unworkable. That's another point. MR. BRUCK: Well, I should say that futuredangerousness is not likely to be at issue in -- in caseswhere State law does not provide the jury the freedom toconsider it. If aggravation was clearly limited in aweighing statute in which the jury has clearly said theseare the -- or is clearly told, these are the factors thatgo on death side of the scale and nothing more -- only you th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC can think of a way in which the prosecution could try acase in a way that clearly conveyed the message to thejury that --QUESTION: Well, how many States that use thedeath penalty allow future dangerousness as a factor insentencing? MR. BRUCK: You know, I don't have an exactnumber. My sense is that a small minority have it as astatutory aggravating factor, such as Texas, Virginia, andOregon, and a much larger number like Georgia, SouthCarolina allow it along with a myriad of other sentencingfactors without it ever needing to be explicitlymentioned. These are the so-called non-weighing States. I would guess --QUESTION: Well, that is the concern, of course,is if -- whether this concept is something that is goingto have to be applied in every capital sentencing case orwhether there's some limitation. MR. BRUCK: Well --QUESTION: And it's hard to know from yourargument the answer to that. Can you draw a line?MR. BRUCK: Yes. I would say where the evidencedoes not sound in future dangerousness and where theprosecution does not advance the jury's consideration offuture dangerousness. For example, in this case, you th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC know, on these facts, of course, none of this isimplicated. This is simply Simmons. This is withinSimmons. Even if we were to limit Simmons to its facts,it would include this case because you have an onslaughtof future dangerousness argument. You have an onslaughtof classic future dangerousness evidence presented --QUESTION: Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait. Yousay evidence sounds in future dangerousness. What -- whatevidence that -- that is introduced at -- you know, at the-- at the sentencing phase that this is a horrible personwould -- would not sound in future dangerousness? You'retrying to show that this is a horrible person, that hedeserves the death penalty. What kind of evidencewouldn't sound in future dangerousness? MR. BRUCK: Well, for example, the prosecutorhere took on the issue of the fact that this young man wasonly years old, and his -- and had no prior record,both very substantial mitigating factors. And theresponse was that actually the very fact that he had noprior record, the prosecutor said, makes him morefrightening than a serial killer, more frightening than acareer criminal, which is all future dangerousnessrhetoric. Frightening means looking toward the future. One is not frightened by things that have alreadyhappened, but things that might happen in the future. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: Now -- now, you're relying on thestatement of -- of the prosecutor --MR. BRUCK: Yes, in part. QUESTION: -- on his use of the wordfrightening. And in another place, he does use the termdangerousness.MR. BRUCK: Yes, he does. QUESTION: Now, that's one thing if you want to-- and -- and we -- we can discuss that. But -- but I'mmore concerned about your broader point that when theevidence, as you put it, sounds -- I'm not sure it's theproper use of sounds, but when the evidence, as you putit, sounds in future dangerousness, we have to -- it -- itis constitutionally required that you -- you have theinstruction about no parole. MR. BRUCK: Well, I mean, we should recall that-- that -- I mean, one can say, well, these are just thefacts of the crime. The State has enormous discretionabout what evidence it wants to present, and when itpresents evidence that is reasonably likely or, in thiscase, virtually certain to cause the jury to consider the-- the elemental sentencing issue that a judge considersin almost every case, will he do it again, then --QUESTION: That will always be the case. You --you are asking for a rule that -- that will cover every th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC capital case. I cannot imagine a capital case where --where the prosecution does not, at the sentencing phase,put in evidence that makes this look like a horribleperson, hence, a dangerous person. And -- and I -- youknow, I just don't know that we're prepared to go thatfar. Which leads me to what words -- what are themagic words that you want the prosecution not to be ableto use. Frightening is one magic word. Right? Dangerousis another magic word. MR. BRUCK: It most certainly is. QUESTION: Okay. I mean, we can just have alist of magic words that prosecutors shouldn't use fromnow on.MR. BRUCK: I think there would be no harm,although this case provides absolutely no occasion toconsider the issue, in dispensing with the futuredangerousness requirement for precisely that reason, thatwhen -- that it is -- there are so few cases in which thejury is not likely, in the privacy of the jury room, toask the question, what if he gets out and does it again? This comes up in case after case. And there's a -- inweighing the -- the State -- I mean, is there a dangerthat the Simmons rule might then be applied in cases whereit truly does not rebut something that the jury -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC occasionally in the rare case, yes. But in considering the equities, I think it'sworth keeping in mind that there is unfairness not only onthe issue of future dangerousness from this situation. There is also unfairness in the retributive function thatthe jury must suffer, and this is not in this case. Itmay be more of an Eighth Amendment claim, but I think inweighing the risk of unfairness to the two sides, it'sworth keeping in mind that life without parole is a muchmore severe punishment. It is much more retributive thanis life with parole. And it is -- it is more severe fromthe moment it is imposed, not only or years hence.And the reason is that life without parole means lifewithout hope. And anyone -- I -- I try these cases and -- andnegotiate plea bargains in these cases at the trial level,and I can tell you that there is nothing that cuts the icefaster with the victim's family, with the prosecutor insettling a case than life without parole not because ofthe dangerousness, but because of its retributive effect. And there's something terribly unfair at -- when everyonein the courtroom knows how crushing this penalty is, thispenalty of life without hope, except the jury, and theyare left to think that their option is to let this manhope that some day he'll be out raising a family and th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC working at a job and -- and pretending to be a respectablemember of the community when it isn't so.QUESTION: You're asking us to overrule Simmons.MR. BRUCK: No, by no means. This case -- all Iam saying is that if it is true, as my friend claims, thatour category of cases in these non-weighing jurisdictions,where the jury is given free rein to consider everything,that our category of non-dangerousness cases is actuallyso small as to be nonexistent, then in those States atleast I think it would be fair. And there is no harm insaying --QUESTION: But that isn't the question youpresented in your petition. All you presented in yourpetition was, was the ruling of the Supreme Court of SouthCarolina in this case contrary to Simmons?MR. BRUCK: Well, that's right because Irepresent a client and all my client requires is thatSimmons be applied. We have something that I think canfairly be described as something approaching defiance ofyour -- of your decision in Simmons when a record likethis is -- is found not to raise future dangerousness. The only thing that State can come up with that theydidn't do is to call Dr. Grigson, some psychiatrist, tosay --QUESTION: Well, for the reasons that we've th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC indicated in our questions, I -- I don't think it'sdefiance. I -- I do think the prosecution is being prettycareful not to raise future dangerous explicitly becauseit doesn't want the jury to know this.MR. BRUCK: Yes. QUESTION: And it makes it a little troublesomeBut given the state of our law, futuredangerousness has to be put in issue, and as we -- aswe've indicated, I -- I think under -- under your rulethat would be an issue in almost every case. Let me ask you this. You've heard me ask ithere before. I -- I take it that if this instruction weregiven, either the trial judge relented or futuredangerousness was at issue, it's perfectly open to theState to say, now -- now, you may think this prisoner hasno hope, but the legislature can change this tomorrowmorning. Tomorrow morning the legislature can change theparole rule, and this prisoner -- this defendant can beout in the community, once again a danger.MR. BRUCK: Well, I think that --QUESTION: I take it that would be a fairargument? MR. BRUCK: I don't think it would be for aseparate reason, which is it invites the -- the jury totreat the law under which this person is being sentenced th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC as in effect nonexistent. The only thing that's real isdeath because that can't be changed. QUESTION: Yes, but -- but the certainty thatlife without parole will confine him indefinitely is muchless than that execution will kill him. MR. BRUCK: That's true. That's true. But when-- when a court -- I mean, a jury doesn't need to be toldthat all manmade law is subject to being changed by man. That is something that we all know. Jurors know that,that this law was enacted by the legislature and can bechanged --QUESTION: Well, would you allow the prosecutorto argue it if you were the trial judge? MR. BRUCK: No, I would not because to invitethe jury to --QUESTION: So, you're saying that the jurydoesn't need to be told what it already knows, but that'sinconsistent with your whole position. MR. BRUCK: No. All I'm -- all I'm saying isthat the jury should not be invited to speculate that allthe law that it is being told to apply will melt away andcannot be relied on and thus should be ignored. And thenthe jury ceases really to become a jury that applies thelaw of the State and becomes just a pack of --QUESTION: I thought your position -- I thought th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC your position was that this -- that the judge or thelawyer reads the text of what it says in the SouthCarolina law.MR. BRUCK: Exactly.QUESTION: Reads word for word what thelegislature enacted. MR. BRUCK: That is exactly correct. QUESTION: And that's all you're asking.MR. BRUCK: That's all we're asking. And, youknow, my -- my submission --QUESTION: Wait. Whether -- whether we shouldallow that to happen depends on, you know, how fair it isto the prosecution and why shouldn't the prosecution beable to point out the reality that that's what thelegislature has said today and it can change thattomorrow? So, if you really want future dangerousness tobe -- to be treated openly and honestly, I don't see howyou can just -- just say put in the one side and not theother. MR. BRUCK: Well, I have to say my case does notturn on the answer to that question. That could bedecided either way, as this case is reversed, becausethat's not an issue in this case. It certainly wouldbecome the stuff of future appeals to this Court from theonly two States that see any issue left here, Pennsylvania th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC and South Carolina. QUESTION: In all the other States, in -- inevery other State that has capital punishment --MR. BRUCK: Yes. QUESTION: -- this instruction is given as amatter of course? MR. BRUCK: Regardless of any absence orpresence or alleged absence of future dangerousness. Inother words, every State but South Carolina andPennsylvania already go beyond Simmons, and these are theonly two outliers in which the record is combed forwhether or not future dangerousness is at issue. Now, as I say --QUESTION: When you say it's outliers, but onceagain that's the -- that's the dichotomy that this Courtset forth in -- in Simmons and in our past opinions. MR. BRUCK: Well, yes. The -- it's true that --that Simmons set a constitutional minimum rule and itrequired future dangerousness to be at issue. And thereare a great many -- in a -- in a non-weighingjurisdiction, there are a great many ways of puttingfuture dangerousness at issue. It can be done, as theCourt has held in Simmons itself, by argument. It can bedone, as is never done in South Carolina, by instructionto the Court, because it's not a statutory factor. Or it th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC can -- as the State agrees and as the South CarolinaSupreme Court acknowledges, it can be done solely byevidence without argument by the solicitor. QUESTION: But what about the argument thateverything that goes to future dangerousness also goes tosomething else? The prosecutor said, yes, I showed thatthis was a terrible person because he had no prior record,and I used the Billy the Kid remark because -- to rebutthe age. So, I can give you a reason, other than futuredangerousness, for everything that I put in. MR. BRUCK: Well, it's -- it's -- there's verylittle evidence of future dangerousness and very littleargument that cannot also be given a retributiveinterpretation, which is what the State has labored to doin their brief. And if all that -- it's striking that the Stateis not at all satisfied with the test stated by the SouthCarolina Supreme Court, which is whether the issue wasargued or whether future dangerousness is a logicalinference from the evidence. The State's test for whetherevidence is -- raises an issue of future dangerousness isthat the evidence must only raise future dangerousness andmust raise nothing but future dangerousness. Now, it's rather hard. The only example, as Isay, they can think of is a psychiatric opinion that the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC man will kill again. Apparently that's the only evidencethat triggers Simmons under the Attorney General's view. QUESTION: So what? What's so -- what's soabsurd about that? MR. BRUCK: Because it ain't so. QUESTION: What is so absurd about that? IfSimmons meant anything, it seems to me that's what Simmonsmeant, or otherwise it -- it -- you know, it's virtuallyworthless. MR. BRUCK: Well, there was no psychiatricopinion introduced by the State in Simmons itself. Therewas nothing but a metaphorical argument that two membersof the Court didn't think raised future dangerousness atall. But it was this idea of self-defense in responseto someone who was a threat. That -- that was also anargument about retribution, and as the dissenting opinionin -- in Simmons pointed out, that -- you could certainlysee the retributive meaning, significance, that theprosecutor meant there. But it also -- it also raised the issue offuture dangerousness, and that was all in Simmons. Andthat was enough. And that's why I say that to affirm thiscase would require -- would require reversing Simmons. One has to weigh, too -- I mean, you know, the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC State argues this issue as if we are keeping them fromintroducing evidence, and we are doing something unfair orwe're saying they can't do this, they can't do that. Wedon't say the State can't do anything. All we say is thatwhen they make an argument like they made in this case --he's quick-witted, doesn't that make someone a little moredangerous, calling the defendant Billy the Kid, BloodyBilly, the Butcher of Batesburg, and on and on and on andon and on -- that we be able to answer it by saying howthe legislature has defined life imprisonment for thepeople of South Carolina. These jurors are the same voters that demandedthat life imprisonment be -- be enacted, and now that ithas been enacted, what can be fair about keeping thedefendant from telling the jury, even if all this that theprosecutor says about me is true, I will never be releasedagain? Now, the -- the State also acknowledges, boththe State Supreme Court and the Attorney General, thatfuture dangerousness was raised in this case. They makeno bones about that. But they say, well, we raised it ina special way that does not implicate Simmons. What wedid was we introduced evidence that not even the LexingtonCounty jail could keep this man from being nonviolent, andthat is future dangerousness. And that's why the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC instruction that we offered, telling the jury that futuredangerousness was not in the case, was denied. But the -- but the State says, in defiance ofall common sense, that evidence that this young man wouldbe dangerous, even behind bars and concrete and steel, didnot implicate the notion that if you notion that if youlet him out, he would be even more dangerous. That is whythe State says that prison dangerousness does not --QUESTION: He just didn't like being confined. MR. BRUCK: I'm sorry? QUESTION: Maybe he just didn't like beingconfined. I mean, you can imagine a situation like that.MR. BRUCK: Well, Mr. Chief Justice, anything ispossible, but that does not commend itself to our commonsense. I think what the jury is much more likely to inferfrom that is that if even jail and prison can't keep thisguy from being dangerous, if he ever gets let out, let outon parole, Katie, bar the door. He's going to be adisaster.QUESTION: Well, I'm not sure about thatinference. If I were a juror and I heard about thisevidence, I'd say my principal focus would be on thesafety of the guards and the inmates. I'd say this man isdangerous in prison and that's the reason for capitalpunishment. It seems to me perfectly logical. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. BRUCK: That -- as I say, the -- theevidence has two meanings and that is one of them. Wedon't quarrel with that. But at the same time, if -- ifhe is --QUESTION: Well, then you can't say it defiesall logic, et cetera, et cetera. It seems to me thatthat's the -- the most direct conclusion that -- thatshould follow from the prosecution's evidence on thispoint. He's dangerous in prison. MR. BRUCK: Even if it is the most direct, howcan we say that it does not also prove that if you let himout on parole, he'll be even more dangerous?QUESTION: But that isn't what Simmons said. Ithought the rule of Simmons was -- was a rule of fairness. Look, prosecution, if you're going to argue that this manshould be executed because it -- he will be dangerous tosociety if he's -- if he's let out, then, for Pete's sake,you have to let the jury know that he won't be let out. It's an unfair argument for the prosecution to say he'llbe dangerous to society unless you execute him, when theprosecution knows that he'll never get out. MR. BRUCK: Right. QUESTION: But this is far beyond that. Thishas nothing to do with such an unfair argument by theprosecution. He's not saying don't let this person go th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC because he'll be praying on society. There's -- there'snothing approaching that argument. MR. BRUCK: Well, I think it -- it -- what wehave here is a prosecutor who has Simmons and who knowsthat if he wants to hide from the jury -- you see, theprosecution agrees with us about -- and this is, in a way,what is most disturbing and troubling about this case. Ifthe prosecution did not believe, based on their evidenceand their argument, that this jury was thinking aboutfuture dangerousness to society, why would they care? What possible harm could there be from a Simmonsinstruction? I think the prosecution entirely agrees with uson the importance of this and on the dynamics of jurydeliberation in a case where a -- where the -- where theState's evidence and the argument is of this nature. Theyknow perfectly well what any practicing lawyer who triesthese cases on either side knows, which is that this jurygoes back in the jury room, after having seen and heardall of this, and thinks one thing for sure: We got tomake sure he doesn't do it again. And it is aconstitutional fact, established by the Simmons case,that's -- that part of that is parole, the jury'smisconception about parole, because we've had parole forso many generations and life without parole is a new th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC phenomenon in this country. QUESTION: But this -- this is not a case, isit, in -- where the trial judge put any limitation on thedefense attorney's arguing this point or where the jurycame back with a question. This is not one of thosecases.MR. BRUCK: Right. For all we know, the juryknew there was parole, wrongly. And no limitation. But I have to say -- and the State has notclaimed that in the face of this argument on instructions,that the lawyer -- the defense attorney should have pickedup a statute book and read to the jury the instructionthat the judge had just refused to give. She would havehad her head handed to her on a plate if she had donethat. That is not permitted in South Carolina. When alegal principle has been ruled out of a case, a lawyercannot then attempt to charge the jury anyway. And thatis not an argument you'll find in the State's case.They do say that her -- her rhetorical claim or-- or co-counsel's claim that you'll never see the lightof day should be deemed as the equivalent of a no-paroleinstruction, but you dealt with that and disposed of thatargument in Shafer, where a much more explicit argumentwas held not to be the equivalent of an instruction on --on State law concerning parole. So, I think that -- that th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC argument has absolutely nothing to commend it and is -- isdirectly controlled, I would submit, by -- by Shafer. QUESTION: But Shafer was explicit that counselwould not be allowed to read the statute, which is what Ithink counsel wanted to do.MR. BRUCK: Well, that's right. But you know,it -- a lawyer doesn't, under South Carolina practice,need to ask the court whether an instruction that has beenruled out of the case -- whether it's okay for her to readit to the jury. We know that that is not permissible.I should add, too, that -- that the trial judgeinstructed the jury in this case that he is the soleinstructor on the facts. At page of the record, hesaid, as -- I am as judge the sole -- made the sole andonly instructor in the law. And so -- and that's, youknow, how trials in South Carolina are conducted. Lawyersdo not instruct. I realize as a matter of constitutional law, ifit were -- if there were a way for defense counsel to havedone that, despite the -- the court's ruling, it wouldhave sufficed under Simmons, but there was no such way,and that's why the State makes no such argument in their-- in their brief. This is not where an opportunity waspassed up by defense counsel to instruct on the law. This-- there wasn't any such -- any such opportunity, and th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC that's why the -- the argument is so vague and sounsatisfactory under -- under Shafer v. -- v. SouthCarolina.If this is enough to get around Simmons and toallow prosecutors to keep juries from knowing what theSouth Carolina legislature has done with respect to theabolition of parole, then you will see, as you already areseeing, case after case from South Carolina in which theenvelope is constantly being pushed further and furtherback in what, I have to submit, is a somewhat manipulativeeffort to get the advantage of the jury's misconceptions,to get the advantage of the false dilemma that Simmonscorrectly identified in order to get more death sentencesthan are actually merited by the law and the evidence ineach case. As I say, this is the second time that -- thatSouth Carolina has -- South Carolina's compliance withSimmons has been before this Court in this calendar year. There probably won't be another one this calendar year,but there will be a continuing procession. And, indeed,the first case in line will be Shafer v. South Carolina,which was remanded for reconsideration of the -- forconsideration -- for a ruling on the issue of futuredangerousness. If --QUESTION: Well, perhaps -- you suggested in th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC your brief that for the future the South Carolinalegislature is going to require that the jury be informed.MR. BRUCK: Prospectively, yes. It will -- itwill do no good for -- for people like Shafer and -- andthe petitioner in this case whose cases have already beentried. But, yes, the House of Representatives has alreadyvoted overwhelmingly to, in effect, require a Simmonsinstruction in every case. That bill is now before theSenate and it could be by this time next year, this willbe of only historical interest in South Carolina, exceptto the petitioner --QUESTION: May I ask, as a matter of historicalinterest, when did the requirement that the -- I mean,when did -- when did the sentence of life without parolefirst authorized by the South Carolina --MR. BRUCK: The very first time came in -- in. QUESTION: . MR. BRUCK: And thereafter, the South CarolinaSupreme Court first handed down a truth-in-sentencing ruleand then reversed itself just before Simmons, and Simmonswas the first case tried under the new regime.If there are no further questions, I'd like toreserve my time for rebuttal. QUESTION: Very well, Mr. Bruck. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Mr. Waters, we'll hear from you.ORAL ARGUMENT OF S. CREIGHTON WATERSON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTMR. WATERS: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court:In Simmons v. South Carolina, a limited dueprocess exception was crafted to the general rule inCalifornia v. Ramos that it was for the States to decidewhether to inform the juries on matters of parole or otherearly release. And the issue in this case is whatargument and evidentiary submissions are sufficient to --for the prosecution to have been deemed to raise futuredangerousness such that due process overcomes that Statelaw rule. And petitioner in this case contends that futuredangerousness can be raised simply by the gruesome factsof the crime, by misbehavior in jail, by a prior criminalrecord. And, of course, that would create, as has alreadybeen discussed, a virtually standardless test and wouldconflict with this Court's statements of the Simmons rule,as well as the subsequent interpretation of the rule bymany other courts. And that is, of course, that aprosecutor must specifically rely on future dangerousnessto society as a basis for death. And, of course, that -- the reason for that is th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC the rationale of Simmons itself, which is a due processright of rebuttal. Future dangerousness -- a futuredangerousness requirement is necessary to that due processright of rebuttal, and obviously, in order to have theright to rebut something, the other party must have firstdone something to affirmatively raise that issue.Now, admittedly some --QUESTION: Mr. Waters, in -- in your view hasany South Carolina prosecutor since Simmons used wordsthat would invoke that case? MR. WATERS: Invoke Simmons itself? QUESTION: Yes. It seems to me that anyprosecutor, if your argument is right, can easily getaround Simmons simply by not using the words futuredangerousness and saying, well, this is relevant tosomething else. MR. WATERS: Well, I think, you know, our StateSupreme Court has on two occasions ruled that Simmons wasviolated, and in that case, the -- the prosecutor arguedthat, you know, he's shown that he cannot live inside oroutside of prison. So, clearly that crosses the line.I think, you know, the -- the fundamental --QUESTION: I thought your position was if hecouldn't live in prison, then Simmons was out.MR. WATERS: Well, in that particular case, he th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC said both outside of society and inside prison in thatparticular case. That's State v. Timothy Rogers, a Statecourt case. So, our court has on -- on a couple ofoccasions ruled that. I mean, obviously --QUESTION: You -- you then concede that if the-- if the argument that counsel for the -- the prosecutormakes is this man is dangerous in or out of prison, inthat case a Simmons instruction is warranted.MR. WATERS: I think that by incorporating theoutside society aspect of the argument, our State SupremeCourt has already ruled that and I'm not here to -- tochallenge that. QUESTION: I understood Justice Ginsburg'squestion -- and I'm interested in it too -- as can youtell us, as a matter of practice, are there instances inwhere the Simmons rule is followed in South Carolina andthe jury is instructed about parole because of futuredangerous being an issue, or as Justice Ginsburgsuggested, is it the common pattern and practice forprosecution -- for the prosecutor to stay away from this?MR. WATERS: No. There are plenty of instanceswhere -- where solicitors argue future dangerousness tosociety, and a life without parole instruction is given. There -- it -- it ultimately boils down to what theprosecutor does in his argument and how the trial judge th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC rules on -- on what was raised in -- in that trial. Butit does happen. QUESTION: Don't you have that here? I mean,the argument here was not only the -- the Bloody Billy,the Butcher of whatever it was, but the words dangerouswere used I think -- I think twice to describe him in theargument, once at least. And -- and the argument includedthe -- the statement to the jurors, I hope you never haveto be in the position again of being -- feet awayfrom this kind of -- of a killer. Well, the jurors aren'tgoing to be spending time in prison, and I -- I don't knowwhy that argument means anything other than I hope thisguy is not going to be out where you are going to be andfind you as close to him again. So, hasn't -- hasn't heraised it even on -- on your criteria? MR. WATERS: I don't believe so in this case. Ithink if you focus on the prosecutor's argument as awhole, it's clear that the majority of his argument wasretributive. And we would assert --QUESTION: Well, I'm not talking about -- Imean, you -- the majority of the argument isn't even thecriterion that you are arguing for. You said, look, he'sgot to raise it on my theory. He's got to raise it as anargument that this person will be dangerous on theoutside. And I assume if he does that once, that's th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC sufficient on your theory. And my question is, didn't --even on your theory, didn't he do it here?MR. WATERS: Well, with regard to the dangerouscomment, what the solicitor said in that particular casewas -- he said, well, the evidence here is that he'squick-witted, he's not retarded. And of course, theevidence in this case also was that petitioner was a closefriend of -- or the petitioner's family was a close friendof this victim. He used to work with the victim, and thathe used that familiarity with the victim to make her morevulnerable.QUESTION: Well, what -- what about the feet? I hope you're never in this position again. What aboutthat argument? I mean, isn't that an argument that makesno sense except on the assumption that this person might-- the defendant might be outside?MR. WATERS: That -- that particular argumentwas -- was made at -- at the beginning of the sentencingphase in opening statement. It was a brief reference. Idon't think that that --QUESTION: I mean, it was made to the jurors.They heard it, didn't they? MR. WATERS: They did hear that, but I think ifyou read it in context, it was more of the case of youjust committed -- convicted this guy of a horrible crime. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC You have a tough job ahead of you, and I hope you neverhave to do this again. I -- I think that -- that brief,isolated passage, when read in the context of what thesolicitor was saying there, would not have such -- beensuch as to necessarily flag the future dangerousness issuein the mind.QUESTION: So, if -- if the prosecutor hadclosed his argument with that, that would have sufficed.MR. WATERS: I'm not -- I don't know if I wouldsay that much. I just point out that it was very earlyand it was just a brief reference in opening statement,and I don't think that that -- that can be pointed to asto have crossed that line because I don't really think heused it for that inference, that you know, this -- youknow, this guy is going to be dangerous to you. He wasmore saying, you know, you just convicted this guy of themost horrible, bloodiest crime you can imagine, and he's ahorrible person, and now you've got one more tough job todo. And I hope you never have to go through this again. I think that was the point of his argument, not that thisguy --QUESTION: He didn't -- my -- my -- you correctme if I'm wrong, because I don't have the transcript infront of me, but my recollection is he didn't say, I hopeyou don't have to go through this again. He said, I hope th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC you're -- you know, you're not in this position of being feet away from this kind of a person again, which is Ithink quite different. MR. WATERS: Well, he -- he did not say, I hopeyou don't have to go through that, but I think if you readhis argument, that was the point of it, and I think incontext, that's the obvious point of it rather than futuredangerousness.QUESTION: May I ask this? You gave us a coupleof examples of the South Carolina Supreme Court itselfsetting aside the conviction -- or executions because theyhad failed to give the instruction. And you -- you'vejust quoted the example he mentioned both inside andoutside prison. Now, did they consider the -- your argument thatif read in the context of the entire argument, it -- itwas a featured part of the argument, or did they -- couldthe -- could one reasonably think that from thoseopinions, just that mere mention was enough?MR. WATERS: In that -- in that particular case,the solicitor focused much of his argument on that. Hesaid, this -- this defendant has shown by his priorrecord, because the defendant had had prior incarcerationsand prior releases -- he's shown by his prior record thathe cannot exist safely both inside prison and outside th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC society. So, I would concede that crosses the line. Ithink it was focused on in that case, and it was a directstatement of outside society.And I -- I don't want to get into magic words,but I think when you say outside society, when he clearlyfocuses, that -- that would be a magic word triggeringSimmons. QUESTION: But you would draw a line dependingin part on how much the issue was emphasized in theargument. Not just an isolated comment, for example,would not be enough. MR. WATERS: What I'm saying is that if there'san isolated comment in the context of an -- of an argumentthat focuses on retribution, that -- it's kind of aDonnelly v. DeChristoforo principle, that you shouldn'tassume that the prosecutor intended to worst meaning fromthat, and you shouldn't assume that the jury necessarilytook the worst meaning from that. And -- and so, I'm notsaying -- I'm just saying that the context does matter,and -- and that's essentially what we have here. In Simmons, you know, we had a -- the moreegregious situation. We had the prosecutor say, jury, youknow, the death penalty is going to be society's responseto a threat, society's response. The prosecutor said,jury, you know, this will be your act of self-defense to th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC this particular defendant. The death penalty will be anact of self-defense. The prosecutor even went on -- sofar as to say his own expert calls him dangerous and hadbrought that out in cross examination. There's none ofthat here. All they can do in this case is -- is gothrough a technical parsing of the argument. QUESTION: Well, why shouldn't -- why shouldn'tit be? Why isn't it fundamentally unfair in every capitalcase, after all, not to give the instruction that thealternative is life without parole? After all, you have ajury who knows it has a murderer in front of it. It'strying to decide among all alternative punishments. Deathis the worst, and then the State won't tell them what thealternative is. Apparently every State but two havedecided that is unfair. And why, to go back to basics,isn't it as unfair a thing just about as one can imagineto tell the jury you have to give life or something elseand then not tell them what the something else is,particularly when they're likely to think he'll be outafter a few years? MR. WATERS: Well, I think the jury in this case-- you know, they are told life imprisonment, and they'renever told that there's any possibility of --QUESTION: But sitting -- in your experience,wouldn't you say most jurors are sitting there thinking th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC that life doesn't mean life? MR. WATERS: Well, I -- I'm not sure that that'snecessarily true. I mean, in State v. Patterson, whichwas a case in South Carolina, there was a voir direof the jury on that, and most of the jurors said, wethought it meant, you know, he'll never get out. So, Imean, there's conflicting evidence on that. I know thisCourt has repeatedly referred to the fact that it -- it isnew event and many jurors may not know, but I don't knowif that's necessarily the case. As a matter of fundamental fairness, we'restill talking about, to some degree, deference to theStates. And -- and so --QUESTION: What does deference to the State gotto do with fundamental fairness? It seems to me that's anentirely different argument. The fundamental fairness question that JusticeBreyer is raising is in a context in which it may or maynot be debated as to whether jurors know instinctivelythat life really means life, doesn't fundamental fairnessrequire that they be instructed unequivocally so that theyknow the terms within which they must act in coming to averdict. That's the fundamental fairness question. MR. WATERS: Well, I think that the -- theineligibility of parole, as this Court held in Simmons, is th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC only directly relevant to future dangerousness to societyargument, and that, of course, was the due processrationale followed in Simmons. As far as whether under an Eighth Amendmentcontext or even under a due process that life withoutparole is an effective rebuttal to retribution argumentsand that sort of thing, that's not presented by this case. But I -- I think that the -- the relevance, again, of --of ineligibility for parole is to rebut futuredangerousness to society. That's what --QUESTION: Well, in -- in Simmons, there's noquestion that the future dangerousness issue, togetherwith the jury's question and so on, presented an egregiouscase of -- of a need for instruction.MR. WATERS: Yes. QUESTION: But let's -- let's assume -- and Idon't believe this is this case, even remotely, but let'sassume we had a case in which somehow future dangerousnesswere not an issue. And let's assume we -- we had a -- astraight retribution case. Given the fact that there isenough history to put in -- in doubt, to put into questionwhat really is meant by life imprisonment, in the absenceof a further instruction, why doesn't fundamental fairnessrequire that the jury know for sure what the terms mean,which it must select from in sentencing this person? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. WATERS: Well, again, the jury is told we'redealing with death or life imprisonment.QUESTION: No, but that simply begs thequestion. That -- that is changing my question to you. My question to you says we're operating in a context inwhich historical practice leads one to -- to questionwhether jurors really do understand that life means lifein this case in this State now. On that assumption, whydoesn't fundamental fairness require that the juries begiven a clear instruction so that they're not sittingthere wondering what it means if they come back with alife sentence? MR. WATERS: I think that that depends that --that be all to end all is the without parole context oflife. I mean, life is still a very severe penalty, and --and in order to get to your point, I think that you haveto assume that adding without parole to it makes it sofar --QUESTION: You bet I assume that. There is abig difference between life imprisonment, in which aperson never walks out of the prison, and lifeimprisonment in which the person walks out years later. Yes, I make that assumption and I want you to make thatassumption in answering my question. Why doesn'tfundamental fairness require that the juries understand th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC that? MR. WATERS: Well, again, I would have to fallback to the fact of is the only aspect of the State's casethat it rebuts is future dangerousness to society. And --and so that --QUESTION: And my question to you is let'sassume a case in which that is not the issue, a case inwhich we're talking about retribution. I want to narrowthe issue down here. Why doesn't fundamental fairnessrequire that the jurors understand what the words mean?MR. WATERS: Because if it is a purelyretributive case and -- and future dangerousness was notan issue, then there is nothing fundamentally unfair. TheState has not made any arguments that the defendant didnot have an opportunity to rebut. And -- and that's theholding of Simmons. QUESTION: Yes, but the -- the argument to thecontrary would be if you were sitting there thinking thatthis terrible murderer is in front of you and you areasked what is the appropriate punishment, and on the onehand you were told it's death, and on the other hand youwere told -- well, you're not told because a person whowants to retribute, wants vengeance, would surely like toknow that the alternative to death, which is surelyvengeance, is life in prison forever, not just life in th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC prison for or years. I mean, can you think -- in adeath case punishment stage, surely that would be onanyone's list of top five of the relevant factors. MR. WATERS: I don't know if you can necessarilyassume that's the case when the jury hears evidence andthey're instructed on what to consider and the focus ofthe evidence is his adaptability in prison, which is thecase in this case and many other cases. And I think with regard to life without parolebeing a response to purely retributive arguments, it's notsuch an obvious be all and end all response to -- toretribution that due process steps in, as opposed to thesituation in Simmons where future dangerousness to societydoes respond to that. I think that there is still adistinction there that -- that retribution is notnecessarily directly responded to by a life without parolesentence, and so --QUESTION: I assume that the reason for theserules were just -- just State principles that the law sayswhat it says, and we don't want to get into therefinements of -- of how long a life sentence may be. Inthose States that do allow the fact that a life sentencedoes mean a life sentence to be introduced, do thosejurisdictions also permit or do other jurisdictions permitthe prosecution to show that a life sentence does not mean th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC a life sentence? MR. WATERS: There -- there are a number of --of jurisdictions that have wrestled with that. I thinkCalifornia v. Ramos is an example of that. Illinois hashad -- has wrestled with that. So, some do allow chargeson the possibility of commutation, on the possibility ofpardon, on the possibility of change in the law and -- andadd argument on that as well. And, of course, South Carolina's policy hasalways been that we want a simple either/or choice, deathor life, and -- and we don't want to bring in thesecollateral concerns. Now, whether the members of thisCourt disagree with that as a matter of policy, thisCourt, of course, has stated in many contexts that, youknow, the -- the wisdom of policy decisions, as long asthey have a certain modicum of -- of reasonableness, arefor the States. QUESTION: Is the prosecution allowed to arguein South Carolina when -- when the choice is -- is life ordeath, is the prosecution allowed to argue the possibilityof commutation? MR. WATERS: No, no. Parole and early releaseis off-limits on both sides of the coin, and there's neverbeen a State case yet to rule that, well, to be fair, theprosecution needs to have that, at least as -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: Well, that's not really very fair, isit? When -- when the jury, you know -- if you instructthe jury that life means life, it really doesn't meanlife. You'd have to let the prosecution come in and sayit could be commuted. MR. WATERS: Absolutely, absolutely, and I wouldagree with that. QUESTION: Or the -- all the law can be changed?MR. WATERS: Or it could be changed. QUESTION: The South Carolina Supreme Courthasn't dealt with that issue, though, has it? Because --because Simmons is relatively new. Has there been a casewhere the prosecutor says, okay, judge, I said futuredangerousness, but I want to tell them that the law canchange, that there's a pardon, that there's a clemencypower? That hasn't come up, has it? MR. WATERS: Not of which I'm aware. In fact,this rule developed initially when there was paroleeligibility, and it was really a rule initially created to-- to benefit defendants, frankly, in -- in that theydidn't want the jury to know -- the defense didn't wantthe jury to know that there was parole eligibility. So,the South Carolina Supreme Court said, okay, we're goingto charge life. Life means life imprisonment. That'swhat it means. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: Well, then the South Carolina SupremeCourt itself changed its rule on that?MR. WATERS: It had. There was a period of timewhere their -- they did sanction charging on paroleeligibility. This was prior to life without parole on --on either - or -year parole eligibility, depending onthe jury's finding of aggravators. That existed, Ibelieve, for about years, and was overturned in Ithink. So, there was a period of time. But the policy -- the rule has always stayed thesame, though, and that is that we don't want the jury tobe legislating a plan of punishment. We don't want to be-- them to be concerned about these possible futureevents. We want them to make an either/or choice. And South Carolina will remain true to Simmons,but beyond that, unless the policy is considered to be sounreasonable as to not pass the laugh test, then I thinkthat they can potentially -- they can have that policy. And I want to bring up another point, especiallywith regard to this and -- and what the prosecution did inthis case. I don't think the -- the Court should -- or Idon't -- I don't think it would be wise to -- to assumethat prosecutors are going to be dishonest or to assumethat the State court is going to be dishonest and is goingto circumvent this rule. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC And in fact, what the prosecution was doing inthis case, yes, he was trying to avoid Simmons, but he wasdoing that to obey the law. And -- and clearly in -- inJustice O'Connor's concurrence, it said that if theprosecution does not argue future dangerousness, then thecharge does not have to be given, and -- and that's whatthe prosecutor was doing here. So, he wasn't trying tocircumvent the law. He wasn't trying to be sneaky. Hewas trying to obey the law, and -- and --QUESTION: Yes, but he was trying to get the --prevent the jury from getting this information. MR. WATERS: That's true. That's true. He madea tactical decision that he -- and I don't know if it'snecessarily tactical -- he was not going to rely on futuredangerousness, and since that would not trigger Simmons,then the State law rule would apply. And that's --QUESTION: And -- and he also kind of snuck inthe word dangerousness there in the -- in the -footexample, but they don't count because they weren'tprominent in his argument. MR. WATERS: Well, I'd -- I'd like to -- toaddress that specifically. At that point in the argument,he was talking about the particular crime in this --QUESTION: What -- what passage are we -- are wetalking about a passage? I don't have it in my -- where th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC the -- the prosecutor expressly says future dangerous?MR. WATERS: No, not at all. QUESTION: I thought perhaps from his questionthat's what we were talking about. MR. WATERS: What he -- what he was doing was hesaid, okay, this defendant is quick-witted. Thisdefendant -- the evidence says this defendant is notretarded. Now, doesn't that make him more dangerous forShirley Shealy, for this crime on this January the th,for this particular lady? And what he was saying, if --if you read his argument in context, was again that thepetitioner in this case was a close family friend of thevictim and also used to work at that very same KentuckyFried Chicken.QUESTION: Mr. Waters, it wasn't quite likethat. He said dangerousness, and then counsel for thedefense stopped him at that point, and then he came backwith, well, I meant dangerous for her. MR. WATERS: Well, I don't know if you cannecessarily read that that was at a protracted period. Itmay have been he just cut off before he finished hissentence. But what he was trying to say was is that hewas more dangerous for her because she would have trustedhim. She would not have expect to be cut to ribbons bythis person because he was her friend. And that's what th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC the prosecution was saying. He was saying that makes thiscrime more aggravated. It's more premeditated. It's morecallous. He preyed on the vulnerability of the victim.QUESTION: And she was outside prison when thishappened. MR. WATERS: She was outside prison, but this isretribution. This is, you know, jury, sentence thisdefendant to death for all the bad things that he has doneculminating in this capital crime. This was such ahorrible crime. And if you read the prosecution, there'sat least five or six examples where he says, what's thepunishment that fits the crime? It doesn't matter if hedoesn't have a prior record. This case is bad enough onits own. This is a case for the death penalty. And thatwas a recurrent theme from the beginning, the middle, andthe end of his argument, from start to finish.So, I would assert then that, you know, whenread as a whole -- and -- and again, if you look at theevidence of dangerousness -- and there's been some raisedof whether -- the issue raised of whether dangerousnesswithin prison counts. And obviously, as a matter oflogic, it doesn't because, you know, whether or not thedefendant is going to get out of prison has nothing to dowith whether he will be a danger inside. But more -- more -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: But if he is a danger inside, itfollows that he will be a danger outside if he gets out. Isn't that the kind of common sense inference that anyonewould draw? MR. WATERS: I -- I don't think the link is --is so readily made. I mean, it's common knowledge that --that prison --QUESTION: Well, the -- the evidence of -- ofhis dangerousness included things that he used to like totorture small animals, psychiatric evidence to the effectthat he wants to -- to take action, homicidal action,against anybody who annoys him. The -- the word was alittle bit more flamboyant in the psychiatrist'stestimony, but that was the point. These -- these don'tgo to conditions that would only come into play inside ofa prison. MR. WATERS: Well, in that particular instance,number one, the prosecution never used any of that in hisclosing argument. But I don't --QUESTION: Well, it brought out in its crossexamination. MR. WATERS: Absolutely. But -- but number two, if you -- that there wastheir adaptability expert, and all of this went to focuson what the jury had before it, which was adaptability to th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC prison, and that's the issue that they were focused upon. And -- and what -- and the expert said, well, you know --QUESTION: Let's -- let's assume that. Let'sassume that was the -- was the point. The fact is theevidence came out, and there's -- there's no common sensebasis that I can think of to say that this evidence wouldnot indicate that if the individual got out of prison, hewould be very dangerous to the people he came in contactwith. And I thought you were arguing that you couldn'tmake such an inference. MR. WATERS: I think that that -- that evidenceis very close, but I would -- I would assert that -- thatthe way it was used in this particular case to respond toadaptability, which is dangerousness within prison, whichwas the specific issue that was focused before this jury. If the prosecution --QUESTION: But what started all of this, Ithought, was -- was the point that you were making thatthe evidence that went to dangerousness in prison did notground in inference of dangerousness outside. Maybe Imisunderstood your point. MR. WATERS: No. I -- I agree that thatparticular -- those particular instances are a bit broaderthan the majority of evidence of dangerousness withinprison, but I think that the -- his expert said, look, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC he's not a violent person. He hasn't had a violent past. He -- he's -- he's not mentally ill. He's -- he's goingto be great in prison. He's not the type of individualthat poses a risk in prison. He's not a predatorial,institutional violent individual, which their witnesseswere noting a distinction between society in prison andsociety outside of prison. And I think all the State was doing was crossexamining on that, saying, wait a minute. You're sayinghe's going to be adaptable? Well, he says, you know, hehas violent fantasies. Well, that was brought out ondirect by the defense. They -- they brought that out, ofthese violent fantasies, and the State was merely crossexamining on a point that already had been made by thedefense and saying, your opinion here is that he'sadaptable. Well, what about this -- this violent fantasy?So, it was only used in the context of -- eventhough it -- I agree, it has a broader context -- abroader -- you know, it wasn't just his misbehavior inprison, but it was only used by the State here tochallenge the adaptability prison in -- or theadaptability issue of -- of what he would do in -- withinprison.QUESTION: And it is important to the State, Isuppose, to show that he will be dangerous in prison. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. WATERS: Oh, absolutely. This is the --QUESTION: The jury presumably would not want togive a life sentence to someone who's going to continue tokill in prison. MR. WATERS: Absolutely. And this is -- this,of course, is the state of -- of Skipper, and -- and it'san inevitability that -- that you're going to see anadaptability case. But --QUESTION: The argument is made whenever theState makes that point, that perfectly valid point, to thejury. It automatically triggers Simmons.MR. WATERS: I'm sorry? The -- the point?QUESTION: The argument made is that when theState makes that perfectly valid point about dangerousnessin prison, it automatically triggers Simmons. And you sayit should not unless -- unless the prosecutor specificallyargues violence, dangerousness outside of prison.MR. WATERS: Correct. As a matter of logicthat --QUESTION: But that really doesn't help you herebecause here you further had evidence of his escape risk.MR. WATERS: And --QUESTION: So that this wasn't a guy who wasjust going to sit quietly and -- and enjoy his time inprison. This is someone who presented an escape risk and th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC hence raised a risk of -- of acting out his dangerouspropensity if he succeeds in escaping. MR. WATERS: And I think that that's -- I wouldagree with that wholeheartedly. I think the majority ofthe -- of the prosecution's dangerousness within prisonevidence went to him being an escape risk, and -- but thefact of the matter is, is whether or not you buy there's adistinction between -- or accept there's a distinctionbetween inside prison and outside society, whether or not-- whatever you think about Simmons, the fact of thematter is that ineligibility for parole does absolutelynothing to respond to the fact that he's an escape risk. He's saying he's going to bust out. It -- the fact thathe can't get parole does nothing to respond that he'sgoing to bust out -- that he might bust out of prison.QUESTION: So, you should have been happy withthe instruction is what that proves. MR. WATERS: I'm sorry? QUESTION: You should have been happy with theinstruction.MR. WATERS: With the? QUESTION: Because you're concentrating on whatwould happen in prison. So, the instruction wouldn't helpyou -- it wouldn't hurt you. It would actually help you.MR. WATERS: What? The -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: This fellow is going to be kept wherehe'll be the most dangerous. Therefore, you should killhim. That's your argument. MR. WATERS: No. That's -- that's notnecessarily my argument. I think the argument, again,goes to adaptability. I certainly -- certainly wouldn't-- wouldn't assert that. But, you know, as far as to his contention that,well, why does the State care, you know, about giving thischarge if they're saying they're not raising futuredangerousness, again it raises these collateral concernsdown the road of pardon, which he's eligible for pardon. It raises the -- the issues of change in the law, and --and the State seeks to avoid those. And so, that's why itcares. It doesn't want to have to get into that.And if that issue is given, I don't know if atrial judge, without direction from the Supreme Court, theState Supreme Court, would allow a prosecutor to thenrespond with -- with, you know, arguments about change inthe law. And -- and I guess, you know, depending on -- onwhat happens, we'll have to see guidance on that. QUESTION: Mr. Waters, you didn't really mean --your brief could be read to say that -- that the lawyerwas effectively allowed to tell the jury that life meanslife. You said something in your -- the jury -- that th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC because the line was about defendant would never see thelight of day. MR. WATERS: Right. QUESTION: It's no different than -- from whatit was in Shafer in that respect. MR. WATERS: I -- I fully understand what Shaferheld, and my only point with that was, was that thereasons that -- that this Court relied upon in Shafer werenot present in this case, to why those were notsufficient, and that was, number one, the jury asked. So,obviously, it didn't work. And number two, that the judgetold the jury, well, parole eligibility is not for yourconsideration, which raised the concern in Simmons that,well, parole is available but for some --QUESTION: But you -- but you don't dispute thatif the -- if the lawyer then -- if she had tried to say inopen court, now, jurors, I'm going to read you from theSouth Carolina, that she would have her head cut off bythe judge. MR. WATERS: I think it's very unlikely thetrial judge would have allowed her to do that. Absolutely. And -- and we would just assert, though, that --that this is a case -- there's no indication whatsoeverthat the jury was confused or concerned with his possible th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC release. They didn't ask the question. They weren't --it wasn't interjected by the trial judge. And so, all I'msaying is -- is that makes this case materially differentfrom what happened in Shafer when it said that that wasinsufficient. And this -- this lawyer argued natural life inprison -- imprisonment extensively, said, you have twochoices, jury. You have death, a quick, painless death,or you have a long, slow death, and that a wife -- and heasserted earlier, that well, you know, the -- but the jurymight think he's going to get out of prison and have awife and a car. Well, no. The defense argued in thiscase just the opposite. They -- they argued that a wifeis never ever going to happen for Billy Kelly. A car isnever ever going to happen for Billy Kelly, and -- andconcluded by saying, I think life imprisonment is theright punishment in this case because he'll never see thedaylight -- the light of daylight again. So, I think itwas clearly made to the jury, and there's no indicationthat there was confused -- they were confused. There's noindication of a fundamental unfairness in this case.Finally, I think again this Court has stated in-- thank you very much. QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. Waters.Mr. Bruck, you have minutes remaining. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF DAVID I. BRUCKON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERMR. BRUCK: Thank you, Your Honor.The question has come up again concerning thehistory of South Carolina's handling of this matter. Ishould say that a very detailed accounting of the wholehistory, legislative and judicial, is provided in the certpetition in Simmons itself, and it's not a very edifyingtale. It really shows that the legislature, when theyfirst considered a limited life without parole, wasdeadlocked because of a fear that it would reduce thenumber of death sentences, and the legislative compromisethat finally came out was we can go ahead and have lifewithout parole because you don't have to tell the juryanyway. So, it won't have any effect. And that wasthe --QUESTION: The Supreme Court of South Carolina,I gather from your opponent, shifted its position too.MR. BRUCK: Yes, it did. QUESTION: And what was the reason for that? MR. BRUCK: It's not entirely clear. Themembership of the court changed, and indeed, the -- thelegislative leader of this proposal to stop telling thejury or not to tell the jury about parole joined thecourt, and then the membership -- and then the court's th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC position changed. If there was a connection, I don'tknow. But it -- it -- it's an odd history.The -- my friend says that, well, South Carolinadoesn't want the jury to know about commutation. For avery good reason. There is no such thing as commutationof a life sentence under South Carolina law. We're one ofonly two life without parole jurisdictions that do notallow the Governor to commute a life without parole or anyprison sentence. The commutation power only extends tothe death penalty. So, there is a pardon power which --QUESTION: When you say commutation, that's allsynonymous with --MR. BRUCK: Clemency. QUESTION: -- clemency?MR. BRUCK: That's right. There is a pardon power which, according to therecord in Simmons, has never been exercised, and by itsterms requires a showing of the most extraordinarycircumstances. And there -- so, South Carolina's life withoutparole is as locked down as any State's. The idea that,well, there's lots of play is simply not so, and -- and sothere's very little that the State could come back with.But as a constitutional matter, if there was anyplay at the joints, absolutely, if the jury is told the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC truth that there's no parole, the jury can also be toldthe truth about any possibility of release that mightexist. We don't deny that for a moment. But the Staterecognizes that the -- that the real issue is theunavailability of parole, and that's why they fight thistooth and nail. Justice Ginsburg inquired about prior cases inwhich the State Supreme Court has reversed under Simmons. And it's important to keep in mind there are only two, andthey both involved cases that were tried before Simmonscame down. And that is why in one case the verbatim sameargument about what to do with him when he is in our midstwas made by the prosecutor because they didn't haveSimmons as the script about what not to say. But since Simmons came down and sinceprosecutors who are of a mind to defeat the rule inSimmons have had the -- the facts of Simmons to go by, notone case by the South Carolina -- the South CarolinaSupreme Court has not reversed under Simmons in a singlecase, in every instance. Now, it's true that occasionally trial judgeshave given a life without parole instruction underSimmons. Oftentimes it's because a prosecutor, out of abasic sense of fairness, does not take the position thatthe prosecutor took in this case. We're really dealing th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC with a due process rule where you sort of feel it in yourheart that there's something wrong, and that applies toprosecutors and judges too. But when a prosecutor decidesto -- to use the Simmons script, they've had very goodsuccess in having this instruction not given. And I should say that if this -- if these factsare now held by this high Court to be not to trigger therule in Simmons, you will see that as being -- as beingthe rule. Now, it's possible that the legislature willstep in. It's equally possible, after such a largeloophole in Simmons, a loophole that will swallow theentire case, is decided by this Court --QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. Bruck. MR. BRUCK: Thank you. CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: The case is submitted.(Whereupon, at : a.m., the case in theabove-entitled matter was submitted.) th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC 