 IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XCAREN CRONK THOMAS AND WINDY :CITY HEMP DEVELOPMENT BOARD, :Petitioners :v. : No. -CHICAGO PARK DISTRICT :- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XWashington, D.C.Monday, December , The above-entitled matter came on for oralargument before the Supreme Court of the United States at: a.m.APPEARANCES:RICHARD L. WILSON, ESQ., Orlando, Florida; on behalf ofthe Petitioners.DAVID A. STRAUSS, ESQ., Chicago, Illinois; on behalf ofthe Respondent.JAMES A. FELDMAN, ESQ., Assistant to the SolicitorGeneral, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; onbehalf of the United States, as amicus curiae,supporting the Respondent. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC C O N T E N T SORAL ARGUMENT OF RICHARD L. WILSON, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioners ORAL ARGUMENT OFDAVID A. STRAUSS, ESQ.On behalf of the Respondent ORAL ARGUMENT OFJAMES A. FELDMAN, ESQ.On behalf of the United States, as amicus curiae,supporting the Respondent REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OFRICHARD L. WILSON, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioners PAGE th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC P R O C E E D I N G S(: a.m.)CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: We'll hear argumentnext in Number -, Caren Cronk Thomas and Windy CityHemp Development Board v. the Chicago Park District.Mr. Wilson.ORAL ARGUMENT OF RICHARD L. WILSONON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERSMR. WILSON: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court,in the unanimous opinion in Freedmanversus Maryland this court stated that when the governmentimposes a permit requirement on the exercise of freespeech, that permit scheme must include certain proceduralsafeguards which are there, quite obviously, to preventthe unwarranted and perhaps unlawful delay or suppressionof speech that might occur without them.CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: Well, Freedman was aquite different case from the present one. You agree withthat, don t you? I mean, there you re talking about someform of censorship. Here you re talking about a permit touse a park that a lot of other people want to use.MR. WILSON: While agree that there s adifference between the two cases,this case begs for moreprotection than the speech involved in Freedman. Becauseafter all, the Freedman case was specifically - th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC specifically arose from a censorship scheme which wasaimed at sexually explicit speech. This is a caseinvolving core political speech. And although the -QUESTION: Well is this content neutral in yourview, the regulation?MR. WILSON: I believe that the regulation inthis case is content neutral. It is rife with theopportunity to make viewpoint based decision, but not onits face.CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: I have to say thatthinking about the case, I suppose analytically this is aprior restraint. And we have said that there s a heavypresumption within validity. But on the other hand, it s acontent based time, place and manner regulation, and wehave sustained these in case after case, and you want tomake this a Freedman case.Freedman was a case where you had to submit yourspeech to prior examination, prior submission of speech,and it was in that context, and the Court was very clear,as I recall, in Freedman to say when -- there must beprior submission of speech, then you have to have theprocedures Freedman set forth, so I think you're reallystretching our precedents, particularly Freedman, to putFreedman in your case.It's true you may have some other arguments, if th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC there were some content-based suppression going on, butthis isn't a Freedman case. Our authorities just don'tallow us to make that leap.MR. WILSON: Justice Kennedy, with respect, Icould not disagree with you more, and I think we can lookat a few cases to show that this is surely a priorrestraint case, and the one that comes to mind mostreadily is where that exact same question was presented tothis Court when, in FW/PBS v. The City of Dallas, theFifth Circuit had held that the Dallas licensing scheme,which was content-neutral, period, in all regards, which acontent-neutral licensing scheme licensing sexuallyoriented business in Dallas, was a time, place, and mannerrestriction, and this Court rejected that approach andsaid, first we find that it is an unlawful priorrestraint, and therefore it is --QUESTION: Well, I think your premise may be onethat we're going to have trouble adopting. This is use ofa public park. It is limited in terms of size and space,and presumably there may well be competing intereststrying to use the park at the very same time, when itcan't accommodate every possible use at all times. Now,is there no way that the park can attempt to find rules ofthe game so that everybody gets accommodated?MR. WILSON: Justice O'Connor, there's no th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC indication in this record or in any situation that I'maware of --QUESTION: But just answer whether that ispossible, under First Amendment time, place, and mannerdoctrine. Yes, it's public space, and yes, it ispolitical speech, but is it a possible time, place, andmanner regulation to say a group of wants to use itTuesday, and a second group of wants to use itTuesday, we have to sort out who gets it and when? Isthat not possible?MR. WILSON: Certainly, Justice O'Connor, that'spossible. What we complain about is when the Governmentcan say, we will decide who gets to use the park,particularly when the scheme is such, when it lacks thekind of standards required that the Government can makethat choice improperly.QUESTION: But aren't you --QUESTION: Under the standards there was a listof , and they seem to be reasonable, fairly clearstandards, and you are coming to us with a facialchallenge, and are we to project that those standards willnot work properly? You're not coming to us with anyconcrete case.MR. WILSON: Justice Ginsburg, the record inthis instance is a solid, concrete case. Mr. McDonald was th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC denied his right to core political speech using thosestandards.QUESTION: And then he was granted it, as Iunderstand it.MR. WILSON: Mr. McDonald never received apermit. From the time he filed this application forpermit --QUESTION: He did conduct his expression.MR. WILSON: He was allowed to conduct aspontaneous rally on a very limited basis. No soundsystem was allowed. No vendors were allowed, no stage, nostructures.QUESTION: What about, in the list that we haveare functions that were being held at the park. One ofthe permitted events was -- it may not have beenMr. McDonald. He may not have been with us any more, butit was for the same organization, was it not?MR. WILSON: One of the events in the lodgingmaterial?QUESTION: Yes.MR. WILSON: Yes, that is true. Those have notbeen obtained without great difficulty, however. Indeed,the brief of the Chicago Park District indicates that thepermit for the event for this fall was granted. The parkdistrict filed that brief before the organization was th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC notified that somehow the park district had lost thatapplication and the permit therefore was not valid, andthey'd have to go some place else.QUESTION: In any --QUESTION: Well, still the point remains that Ijust think you overstate the case when you tell us this isa Freedman case. Justice O'Connor gave you the simplesttime, place, and manner regulation that's content-neutral,if there are two groups that want a use a space that hold and they're each , do you have to sort out the two. That is not a Freedman case. Sure, I suppose if you pushus to the wall it's a prior restraint. Of course thereare cases that say that prior restraints have a heavyburden.But we have sustained in countless casescontent-neutral time, place, and manner regulations forthe use of parks and those are not Freedman cases, period,as I read the cases. Now --MR. WILSON: Justice Kennedy, I think clearlyit's a prior restraint. I mean, there are two --QUESTION: Well, I happen to disagree withJustice Kennedy's suggestion. I think you just have tostrain all over the case to find that this is a priorrestraint. It's public property, and you're just standingin line with a bunch of other people to get the use of it. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. WILSON: Mr. Chief Justice, from Neer v.Minnesota forward, the Court has said that when speech isprohibited in advance, that is a prior restraint.QUESTION: Okay, but Neer was the shutting downof a, padlocking of a newspaper --MR. WILSON: Yes, Your Honor.QUESTION: -- of a private -- the shoe is on theother foot here. Nobody is telling your client he can'trun a printing press in a private place. What -- yourclient is coming and saying, we want to use this publicpark that a lot of other people want to use, and to saythat you're going to have to get in line and obey somerules, it doesn't come close to being a prior restraint.MR. WILSON: My problem with that, Mr. ChiefJustice, is not that you have to get in line with otherpeople and share the use of the park, which was JusticeO'Connor's concern when she posed the time, place, andmanner question.My complaint is that the way this scheme is setup, it allows the park district to choose which people inthat line can come forward and get their pass to speak,and which people in that line --QUESTION: Do you think the language of, maygrant, is something that allows too much discretion? Isthat your complaint? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. WILSON: It is one of our complaints, andeven that --QUESTION: Or do we read may as shall grant, ifthese conditions are met?MR. WILSON: Well, it says --QUESTION: I don't know what it means.MR. WILSON: It says may deny, is what it says.QUESTION: It says may deny, but maybe itmean -- means that the permit must be granted if thecategories are met.MR. WILSON: But that's not what it says,Justice O'Connor. Indeed, the Seventh Circuit recognizedthat the use of the word, may in this scheme creates thepotential --QUESTION: You agree it must be granted ifconditions are met. You just say, it need not be deniedif the conditions are not met. That's your complaint,isn't it?MR. WILSON: Correct.QUESTION: You agree that if the conditions aremet, your client meets all the conditions, he gets in.MR. WILSON: I agree with that, Justice Scalia. What I --QUESTION: Okay. You're saying if your clientdoesn't meet some of the conditions, he may not be allowed th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC in, whereas somebody that the park district likes morewill be allowed in.MR. WILSON: Yes, Justice.QUESTION: That same thing was true, wasn't it,in Poulos? I mean, the language in Poulos was even moreprotean than the language in the may phrase.MR. WILSON: I think Poulos would have beendecided differently by this Court had the --QUESTION: So we've got to overrule it to holdyour way.MR. WILSON: Yes. Had the -- had your court,the supreme court of New Hampshire, not construed thatstatute in such a limiting way to say that if you applyfor a permit under Poulos and under Cox you get thepermit, there was no discretion to deny, and in theopinion that this Court wrote in Poulos, it pointed thatout, that that cured the problem in that case, and I thinkrealistically this Court has recognized the --QUESTION: But wasn't the discretion left thesame discretion, in effect, to evaluate facts, and to actbased upon that evaluation which the Chicago schemeallowed Chicago?MR. WILSON: My understanding of that case isthat after the construction the New Hampshire court placedon it, that became part and parcel of the statute, and th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC even though the statute retained the discretion, it hadauthoritatively been limited by the New Hampshire supremecourt, so the discretion was gone by judicial act and notby legislative change.QUESTION: The discretion was gone to denysomebody who met the conditions?MR. WILSON: Yes, sir.QUESTION: But there -- was there no discretionto grant someone who did not meet the conditions? Did theNew Hampshire supreme court speak to that?MR. WILSON: Well, the interesting --QUESTION: It's the latter that you'recomplaining about, not the former.MR. WILSON: It is the latter. By the way,Justice Scalia, there's another aspect of your inquiry,and we both agree, obviously, that if you meet thequalifications, you're entitled to the permit. It goes nofurther. In this case, however, it is very difficult, ifnot impossible, to show that you meet the qualificationsbecause of the behind-closed-doors way that this permitscheme is imposed and implemented, and this case presentsthe perfect example.As the Court knows from the record in this case,Mr. McDonald vehemently and categorically denied that hehad done those things which under the code would deny him th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC a permit, but that made no difference. Not only did thepark district say that as far as we are concerned you didit, and you are not entitled to speak, that prevents you,in our opinion, from ever speaking in a park for the restof your life, and anyone associated with you.QUESTION: But that didn't happen, and yousay -- you give us this one instance. You don't have arecord of uneven applications, and beyond that, I wouldreally like to know what is your idea of a scheme thatwould be compatible with the First Amendment.In answer to Justice O'Connor you said yes, theycan have rules of the road, so there aren't too manypeople at any time, that there aren't colliding events. What scheme do you say is necessary to meet the FirstAmendment?MR. WILSON: First, in direct answer to JusticeO'Connor's inquiry, a scheme that says you may not obtaina permit for an event at a day and time for which anotherpermit has already been issued, no question. There's nocomplaint that anyone could have.QUESTION: Well, of course, that assumes thatyou have a permit scheme, so it doesn't work.MR. WILSON: I'm sorry, Justice Kennedy.QUESTION: That assumes that you can have apermit scheme. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. WILSON: Surely you can have a permitscheme. I think this Court has made it very clear you canhave a --QUESTION: Well, that's what we're asking, whatthe requisites are for the permit scheme.MR. WILSON: The question may well be, when canyou lawfully deny a permit for free speech under this --under a permit scheme in what is the traditional publicforum, a public park, and what is the most precious ofspeech, core political speech.QUESTION: Well, you're saying the most preciousspeech. Are you suggesting that if, say, somebody wantedto have a softball game in the park and they applied, andyour client wanted to have a speech in the park, and heapplied, that your client should be given some sort of apreference over the softball game because it's freespeech, or --MR. WILSON: No.QUESTION: -- core speech?MR. WILSON: No, Mr. Chief Justice. I am sayingthat if that softball game had a permit, the free speechevent would have to take place at another day, at anothertime, or at another location.QUESTION: But they're both before the board. Imean, you say, first come, first serve, is that it, there th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC has to be that rule, too, if --MR. WILSON: It would seem --QUESTION: You're positing a situation in whichsomebody has already been granted a permit for the time. What if -- what about the situation where you have severalpeople who want to get in for a time that has not yet beencommitted to anybody.MR. WILSON: A first come, first serve rulewould certainly help the situation and, of course, thesepermit applications are dated, time-dated and time-stampedwhen they are submitted, but there is no requirement thatit be first come, first served.QUESTION: Okay. What if they collide on theirway in to file the permit.(Laughter.)QUESTION: What's your rule then? Doespolitical speech always win? Is that the tie-breaker?MR. WILSON: Well, obviously it's a verydifficult question on facts which might never, ever occur,and I'm not claiming that when the park district is makinga decision on whether to issue a permit, or space A on dayA, it has to look at these permits and say, oops,political speech, first in line, and that's --QUESTION: If it doesn't say that, doesn't itretain exactly the discretion that you're complaining th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC about?MR. WILSON: No, sir. If it said first come,first serve according to the time date and time stamp,that would solve the problem. Your hypotheticalassumes --QUESTION: Okay, we've got the collision at thedoor. If the tie-breaker rule is political speech alwayswins, your problem doesn't arise. If there isn't thattie-breaker rule, it seems to me, there is enoughdiscretion left to be a violation on your view.MR. WILSON: Well, I would certainly think thatthis case need not turn on that somewhat unlikelyoccurrence.QUESTION: Well, maybe, but I'd like to knowwhat the principle is that you want us to apply, and Ithink the principle that you want us to apply means thatwhen they bump each other's foreheads at the door,political speech has got to win, or there's anunconstitutional discretion left, amounting to thepossibility of a prior restraint.If that's wrong, tell me why it's wrong.MR. WILSON: I believe that's wrong because --well, first of all, again, we're not going to find thatsituation, but let's assume we did, and they bump theirheads on the way in. First come, first served is a th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC reasonable approach, if that is a concrete andconsistently --QUESTION: Yes, but you just keep changing thehypothetical. What's the principle in the case that thetime rule, first come, first served, doesn't work? What'sthe principle?MR. WILSON: When first come, first served doesnot work?QUESTION: Yes, the hypo.MR. WILSON: It would seem that as long as theevent is suitable for that particular park, first come,first serve should always work.QUESTION: But by hypothesis, Justice Souter'squestion is you can't apply it here because they both cameat the same time.MR. WILSON: Well --QUESTION: You don't have an answer for that,right? You don't have an answer for that situation.MR. WILSON: I don't.QUESTION: Okay.MR. WILSON: I really don't, and --QUESTION: But you think first come, first serveis a thoroughly reasonable rule.MR. WILSON: I do.QUESTION: But you're going to tell us that -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: When --QUESTION: Your brief tell us that --QUESTION: Excuse me, please let me finish.When Pope Paul visited -- John Paul visitedChicago there was a rally, or a gathering in the Chicagoparks. If your client had filed for that day yearsearlier, right, the park would have to say, gee, I'msorry. The park couldn't have a -day before rule, we'renot going to grant any applications until days beforethe event, and we're going to look over all of thefeasible applications at that point. That would not bereasonable?MR. WILSON: Justice Scalia --QUESTION: So that it finds, gee, you know, thePope is only going to be here one day, and you know, maybewe can have this --QUESTION: Hemp concert --QUESTION: -- Hemp concert later, yes.(Laughter.)MR. WILSON: One would assume that the --QUESTION: Can't do that?MR. WILSON: -- holder of the permit would bereasonable in accommodating such as an extraordinary eventas this, and if --QUESTION: No, no, this is an unreasonable -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC (Laughter.)MR. WILSON: I've met them.(Laughter.)QUESTION: The park district always has theavailability of going to court to seek a court order inthat unusual situation to demonstrate to a court that thisis such an extraordinary event that they should be able towithdraw that permit and make reasonable accommodation tothe other events, and it's -- like Justice Souter'shypothetical, it conceivably could happen. It's not goingto happen very often. It may never happen.QUESTION: It's not Pope John Paul, it's theBeatles, and the Beatles are only going to be there forone day. I mean, you're going to have courts decidewhether the Beatles are more important than your Hempconcert?MR. WILSON: No, sir, and that's why I believethat a first come, first serve rule is going to bereasonable in almost all situations.QUESTION: All right, but just --QUESTION: It seems to me the problem withthat --QUESTION: Just testing your brief, you say thateven under the first come, first serve rule the Governmenthas the obligation to go to court to validate the permit, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC under Freedman, and I just don't get that out of our --sure, that's what Freedman said, but Freedman was a veryspecial case, and a time, place, and manner regulation fora park is not.MR. WILSON: Well, of course, Freedman has -- Imean, the analysis from Freedman has been used innoncensorship cases, but in that case the Government needsto bear that burden. It's a very slight burden. It'sa --QUESTION: Mr. Wilson, where -- where? You say,the Government goes to court. The park district goes tocourt and shows that there's no conflict with the FirstAmendment. The court you're assuming, I gather, if you'refollowing the Freedman mode, is a State court, and yetfrom this very litigation it seems that you prefer theFederal court, so how would a Freedman scheme do you anygood at all, considering that your preferred forum is theFederal court, and I don't think, if the Governmentbrought that case, if the park district brought that casein the State court, wouldn't you be stuck there?MR. WILSON: No question, of course, theSupremacy Clause makes Freedman applicable to that Statecourt, but the likelihood that an individual is going toinsist on going forward with judicial review when hispermit was denied because another permit had already been th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC issued is slight.QUESTION: No, but I'm asking you -- I asked youbefore, what is the scheme that you said would beconstitutional, and one part of it surprised me. You saidFreedman. You go to the State court. But it seems to meyou don't want to be in State court. You were broughthere a action. You could have gone to State courtwith a action, but you didn't.MR. WILSON: The problem with that, we havebrought a facial challenge in this case because of thedifficulty, every single time one is refused a permit, ingoing to State court or Federal court and litigatingwhether that particular denial was appropriate, and themedicine here is to get rid of the bad ordinance whichallows inappropriate and content-based, or viewpoint-based decisions behind closed doors, even if they are notauthorized on the face of the scheme.It's a burden that the Government ought to bearin core political speech cases, and it is not a greatburden. It would be a form complaint, spit out of theword processor, to say the permit was denied, here is acopy of the previously issued permit, we rest.QUESTION: Do you know any park district thatdoes it that way?MR. WILSON: Well, some have to now. For th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC instance, in California, it's not a park district, but inresponse to the decision of the Ninth Circuit in Baby Tam,the California legislature enacted Chapter of theCalifornia statutes, which mandates that when a permit isdenied for a First Amendment business, which the Baby Tamcase involved, it is the Government who must bear theburden, and the time limits are very stringent. The --QUESTION: We're talking about a business, apermit to operate a business, not to hold an event in apublic park.MR. WILSON: Well, I would suggest, JusticeGinsburg, that a permit to hold a core political speechrally in a public park deserves at least as muchprotection as the permit to operate an adult bookstore.QUESTION: Well, you're arguing for content-neutral --QUESTION: You're simply wrong under our casesthere.MR. WILSON: I'm sorry, Mr. Chief Justice.QUESTION: I say, I think you're wrong under ourcases there. The Government has a right to makesubstantial choice in determining who's going to use itspremises, whereas the owner of private premises isentitled to use them as he pleases, subject only to thepermit process. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. WILSON: But this Court has said that incases of public parks, the power of the Government torestrict free speech activity is at its mostcircumscribed.QUESTION: And where did we say that?MR. WILSON: We said that in Hague v. -- yousaid that in Hague v. CIO.QUESTION: Well, that was years ago.MR. WILSON: But no one has ever suggested, Mr.Chief Justice, that that is not the law today, and indeed,that one quotation from Hague appears in core politicalspeeches through this day, and it is one of the most oft-repeated statements from the cases.QUESTION: Yes. That doesn't make it validtoday.QUESTION: But isn't your argument for applyingit this. Your argument seems to boil down to saying, acontent-neutral set of criteria can be abused, and isn'tthe answer to that an applied challenge as opposed to afacial challenge?MR. WILSON: No, it is not, Justice Souter. Myanswer to that is, make the Government come into court anddemonstrate to a reviewing court that it was not abused,that it was an appropriate denial of speech, and that'swhere the burden belongs. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: That's why the -- there's no need toretreat from Hague, I wouldn't think. It is important,but the question is what set of rules are appropriate tosafeguard the interests of the many people who might wantto use the park for different purposes, so why don't yougo back to Justice Souter's question and say, well, whyisn't it -- answer, why isn't it perfectly appropriate tohave a set of neutral criteria, that is a fair set ofcriteria, and if they are a disguised way of censoringsomeone, simply leave that up to the as-appliedcircumstance where the person who is being censored willgo into court and say, judge, this is a trick, they'reafter me, and the judge will decide?MR. WILSON: Justice Breyer, in order to do thatit would seem that this Court would have to retreat fromwhat it said in Forsyth, in which it stated that when aprior restraint in the form of a permit to conduct apolitical event in a public forum is involved, a facialchallenge is appropriate, and the court --QUESTION: Nobody says -- nobody denies you canmake the challenge. I just want to know why you don'tlose on the ground that it's a fair set of criteria, andif, in fact, they're not applying that set of criteriafairly, sufficient unto the day.It's the same question, but I think that that's th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC initially what I got from Justice Souter, and I just wantto know directly your answer.MR. WILSON: My answer is that this a particularsituation where facial challenges are appropriate. Thisis not a case where the individual need to go to court anddemonstrate that in this particular instance his permitwas wrongly denied. It is the very existence of thisscheme, as the Court said in Lakewood, that creates adanger that it was wrongly denied, and because that dangeris there, the permit scheme cannot be allowed to stand --QUESTION: May I just ask one question aboutyour rule about priorities, and it's the basic rule. Iassume they might have a cut-off, say we won't considerapplications more than days ahead of time, or somethinglike that, but do you say it is totally impermissible forthe park district to use content of what is going to bedone in the use of the park as one of the criteria fordeciding who gets the -- on competing demands?MR. WILSON: Content of the speech.QUESTION: One is a baseball game, another is aconcert, another is a lecture on dinosaurs, and another ispolitical speech. Is it totally impermissible to decidethat one of those uses is more appropriate on a particulartime and place within the park?MR. WILSON: If there are competing applications th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC and one of them is a free speech event and one of them isa softball game, and the decision is made based on whatthe free speech is urging, what the message is, that isentirely inappropriate.QUESTION: If it's hostility to the message, Iagree completely.MR. WILSON: Yes, sir.QUESTION: But just supposing all you know aboutit is, they want to make -- it's a political rally of somekind on the one hand, baseball, music, all those -- canthe content, without any hostility to the particularmessage, be one of the criteria that can break ties?MR. WILSON: If your question assumes that eachof those events would be appropriate for that specificlocation --QUESTION: It does.MR. WILSON: -- then no. The first appliedshould get the space.I'd like to reserve the remainder of my time.QUESTION: Very well, Mr. Wilson. Mr. Strauss,we'll hear from you.ORAL ARGUMENT OF DAVID A. STRAUSSON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTMR. STRAUSS: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice, andmay it please the Court: th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC First, if I may, I would like to clarifysomething about the park district's regulations. The parkdistrict does use a first come, first serve rule. Itoccurs in at least two places in the regulations in jointappendix and joint appendix .Joint appendix prescribes the order in whichapplications shall be processed. They shall be processedin the order of receipt. criterion number fordenial, one ground for denial -- this is -- I'm readingfrom joint appendix page . One ground for denial isthat a fully executed prior application for permit for thesame time and place has been received, and a permit hasbeen --QUESTION: But neither of those requires theearly application to be accepted, at least not as I readit.MR. STRAUSS: Well, first come, first serve ifthe application is valid, yes.QUESTION: It is required to be accepted? Whichone of those says that.MR. STRAUSS: Well, the -- a valid, a fullyexecuted prior application for a permit has been received,and a permit has been granted --QUESTION: That's a reason for denial.MR. STRAUSS: That's a reason for denial, right. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: But it doesn't say the converse, thatit must be accepted if it's earlier.MR. STRAUSS: Well, the -- a -- the only groundfor denial -- there are other grounds, possible groundsfor denial, but one ground for denial is someone was therefirst.QUESTION: Well, it works out that way becauseof the provision that says applications shall be processedin --MR. STRAUSS: In the order of receipt.QUESTION: That doesn't require a decision onthe processing. I don't see -- I really don't see it, andI'm not sure it's commanded, either, but --MR. STRAUSS: I guess --QUESTION: Let me ask you this. Do you thinkthat that's constitutionally required there be a firstcome, first serve rule?MR. STRAUSS: Well, it is our system, JusticeStevens. I -- so really this would be a question thatwouldn't be implicated in our defense of our system.I guess I think no, it is not constitutionallyrequired to proceed on a first come, first serve basis. There could be other legitimate criteria that might beused, but I do want to emphasize that is what we do.QUESTION: Can you ask for the park years in th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC advance?MR. STRAUSS: My understanding, Justice Scalia,is that we have a practice, although I don't know if it'swritten down anywhere, of not accepting applications formore than some period of time in advance, I think months.QUESTION: I would think there would have to besomething --MR. STRAUSS: There's some provision --QUESTION: Now, the whole scheme is written onthe basis that the permit may be denied, and there are aset of criteria, but it doesn't appear to be anyaffirmative requirement that anything be granted if itmeets all the requirements.MR. STRAUSS: Oh, Justice O'Connor, we do haveto grant it if it meets those requirements. That languagethat the park district --QUESTION: May deny.MR. STRAUSS: -- may deny is an authorization tothe park district to deny in these circumstances.QUESTION: And not otherwise.MR. STRAUSS: And not otherwise. And nototherwise.QUESTION: And it doesn't do anything to governhow you grant competing applications, other than the fact th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC that you say there's some kind of built-in first come,first serve basis.MR. STRAUSS: The way the competing applicationsare handled is on a first come, first serve basis.QUESTION: One of the objections made by thepetitioner was that either in this case or, reading theregulations, you don't have to give written reasons. Hesaid that there was no record and so forth. It seemed tome that was -- I'd like you to respond to that.MR. STRAUSS: Justice Kennedy, we do providereasons.case?QUESTION: That was my -- and you did in thisMR. STRAUSS: Yes, we did, in this case. Thatis in the record. The exchange of letters betweenpetitioner's predecessor, Mr. McDonald, and the parkdistrict is in the joint appendix, and --QUESTION: This is based on previous damage andmaterial misrepresentations in the earlier --MR. STRAUSS: That's right. It was based onprevious violations and, in fact, in this case we gaveMr. McDonald notice that he had engaged in conduct inviolation of his permit when he did it, before hesubmitted the subsequent application.QUESTION: And do the regulations require that th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC you give the reasons?MR. STRAUSS: Yes, they do. I'm reading now onjoint appendix page . The section is misnumbered. It'scorrectly numbered in the appendix to our brief, but thesubstance is the same. Notice of denial and applicationfor a permit shall clearly set forth the grounds uponwhich the permit was denied.QUESTION: Thank you.MR. STRAUSS: It then goes on to say that wherefeasible, if there is a competing use the park districtwill propose a way to accommodate the use. That's arequirement on us, to try to provide an alternative siteor alternative date to --QUESTION: Could you explain the degree ofdiscretion to grant, in the event that the conditions arenot satisfied?MR. STRAUSS: Yes, Justice Souter. Our view,which we think is really the only reasonable reading ofthe ordinance, is that we can exercise discretion, as itwere, within the criteria, so that if there is a way togrant the application that -- an application that is inviolation that does not defeat the purpose of theconditions, we will try to do that.Let me be more concrete about it. The placewhere this comes up most frequently is with a late th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC application, and --QUESTION: Late?MR. STRAUSS: A late -- late application,application that's not submitted. We have a schedule ofdeadlines which are very specific. Often, they're notmet. In fact, they're habitually not met by, in JusticeBlack's terms from Oregon v. City of Struthers, the poorlyfinanced causes of little people. Those are the peoplewho often get their applications in late, and the parkdistrict's view is, if it's -- if we can make thenecessary accommodations, and do the necessary setup andnecessary coordination and free the space for you, eventhough your application is late, we will do it, and that'sthe kind of discretion we exercise.QUESTION: Would there have been discretion inthis case? Let's assume the only prior violation had beenthe fact that if that earlier gathering people were stillhanging around at :, after -- or after : when thepark closed. Would there have been discretion to forgivethat?MR. STRAUSS: Yes, there would have been, if wehad concluded that -- if the applicant said to ussomething that gave us reason to believe it wouldn'thappen again, or if the nature of the event were such thatit was scheduled earlier in the day, or something like th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC that, that it wouldn't happen again, or if it happenedagain it wouldn't be so much of a problem, but we don'tassert, and I don't think you can assert, consistent withthe ordinance, a kind of free-floating discretion tooverlook violations for people we like and not for peoplewe don't like. I think that would be a violation of theordinance.QUESTION: Does the record tell us how manypermits are granted and how many denied each year by thepark?MR. STRAUSS: Justice O'Connor, on the grants,the record, the most precise number we have in the recordis there are thousands of applications and thousands ofgrants a year. We submitted to the Court the permits inour lodging, the permits granted from January throughAugust of this year, and there were over , of those inone region of the park.QUESTION: How about denials?MR. STRAUSS: Denials, Justice O'Connor, is ahard number to come up with, and this bears on theFreedman v. Maryland point, because what often happens isthat the denial takes the form of saying, we can'taccommodate you at this space at this time, but if you'rewilling to move your event a week later, or willing tomove it to this alternative site, then we can accommodate th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC you.Now, I suppose that's a denial, because we'renot granting the permit applied for, and I suppose ifpetitioner prevails we would have to go to court anddefend that denial, which seems a really unworkablescheme, but because of that the park district reallycan't -- couldn't tell me how many denials there are,because so many of them are worked out and the event goesforward in a different time or place than that which wasapplied for.I think there are really three ways in whichthis case differs from Freedman v. Maryland. One whichwas suggested by some questions from the Court, perhapsthe most important one, of course, is in Freedman theBoard of Censors, self-described Board of Censors wasexplicitly concerned with the content of speech.We are not only not concerned with the contentof speech, we are not concerned with whether the eventinvolves speech or expressive activity at all, and if youlook at the application form, unless the applicant somehowdiscloses it, there is really no way for us to know fromthe application form what kind, whether this is a speech-related event or not. The box that Mr. McDonald checkedwas named corporate/festival, which could include avariety of events not involving speech. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: I guess a permit was denied toMr. McDonald based on some prior event where people stayedafter :.MR. STRAUSS: Justice O'Connor, it was deniedfor multiple reasons. It was denied partly because itwasn't filled out properly. The form omitted information,partly because one of the applicants was not anorganization that had the capacity to sue or be sued, andalso because of a series of violations of which that wasonly one. There was also --QUESTION: Are there administrative mechanismsin place for someone who wants to challenge the basis forthe denial to raise it administratively?MR. STRAUSS: Yes, there is, Justice O'Connor. There's a provision for an appeal to the generalsuperintendent of the park district from the decision madeby the permitting officers in the park district, and youcan submit any material you like to the generalsuperintendent, who must rule on it promptly. If hedoesn't rule on it promptly, then the appeal is deemedallowed.QUESTION: I take it that's the seconddistinction from Freedman.MR. STRAUSS: Well, the second distinction fromFreedman -- that is a distinction, Justice Souter, but the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC second distinction really is that a key premise ofFreedman is that the decision in question was one that thecourts had superior competence to make, and that theagency was to be distrusted in making. The Court said thedecision was whether the speech was constitutionallyprotected or is obscene, and a theme of Freedman is, asthe Court said in Freedman, a censor's business is tocensor, and this is really something that requires, in theCourt's words, judicial participation.What we're dealing with here is the managementof parks, where I think the story is reversed, and whenyou're dealing with whether a particular use isappropriate for this area of the park with thisinfrastructure, this is the kind of park district hassuperior competence with, and there's really no reason toinsist, as the Court did on judicial --QUESTION: Does the same problem get injected bythe exception clause in the ordinance, that in fact theycan waive conditions if there would be a First Amendmentviolation?MR. STRAUSS: Justice Souter, that clause, twothings about that clause are salient, I think. First,that clause only comes into play, the clause that providesthat we shall waive certain fees when someone is engagedin First Amendment activity and otherwise couldn't hold th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC the event if we didn't waive the fees, that only comesinto play if someone applies for a waiver, so we're in asituation where someone has come to us in order to seekthis dispensation, has told us we're engaging inexpressive activity, and the second thing --QUESTION: Which happened here.MR. STRAUSS: Which happened here. In oneinstance he got his dispensation.The other thing is, we feel we have to have thatin there because of suggestions in this Court's opinionsin Murdock and Forsyth County that there might be aconstitutional issue if we charge more than a nominal fee.QUESTION: And the third distinction that youwant to rely on?MR. STRAUSS: The third distinction, JusticeSouter, is that in the Freedman context the Court hadindicated a strong preference for after-the-factregulation, that if the -- if a community is concernedabout obscenity, the way to regulate that is by after-the-fact criminal prohibitions.Prior restraints are strongly disfavored and beallowed only in narrowly hedged circumstances, but theCourt has never suggested that when it comes to managingparks, the preferred way to do it is somehow by allowingpeople to do what they will and then punish people after th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC the fact who have done the wrong thing, who have conductedan event in a way that conflicted with another event.QUESTION: Mr. Strauss, you've ablydistinguished Freedman, but do you think that none of theprocedural safeguards that were involved in Freedman areapplicable here, starting with the basics, theadministrator has to have some time limits to act on thesepetitions to hold events?MR. STRAUSS: Justice Ginsburg, I would put thatpart of Freedman in a different category. I think thatthe requirement that the administrator act within aspecified period is a corollary of the rule that theadministrator cannot have unlimited discretion overwhether to grant or deny. Just as unlimited discretionover whether to grant is a problem, unlimited discretionover when to grant is a problem.QUESTION: I think there's considerable merit,what you have just said, although at the end of the briefyou make the final argument that this is really not aspeech statute anyway. Am I to infer from that that youthink we could write an opinion to say that neutralstandards are not necessary?MR. STRAUSS: Yes. That was going to be thesecond part of my answer to Justice Ginsburg, JusticeKennedy. That is our position. Our claim does not hinge th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC on that. The Court could disagree with us on that andstill rule in our favor in this case, but it is ourposition that because this statute applies, this ordinanceapplies so broadly to such a wide range of conduct, muchof which, most of which is not expressive, that it reallyshould be viewed as more like a business license, or abuilding permit, which, of course --QUESTION: Or a zoning ordinance.MR. STRAUSS: Or a zoning permit, variance ofsome kind, which, of course, apply to expressiveactivities, but to a lot of other activities, too.QUESTION: The easy way to answer that argumentis to say we've never done this with reference to parks.MR. STRAUSS: Well, that's right, JusticeKennedy, but as some of the questions from the Courtsuggested during my colleague's argument, because theseare parks, perhaps the Government has more leeway than itwould have in telling people what they can do on their ownproperty.I understand that on the other hand they arepublic forums, and I am not sure how that -- whether thosearguments cancel out, but it seems to me the crucial facthere is that the park district is not only not engaged inthe business of censoring speech, it is at the far extremefrom that, and it is regulating conduct because it affects th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC the infrastructure of the parks, and uses of the parks,and much of this conduct is in no obvious way expressive,and in our view that seems to make it more like a businesslicense.QUESTION: But you did say that you feel somecompulsion from the First Amendment to have to make adecision within a set time to guard against abuse ofdiscretion. You said that. How about, need there be anyavenue for judicial review after we get through with yourpark administrator?MR. STRAUSS: Justice Ginsburg, I think -- well,for anyone claiming a violation of a constitutional right,there should be an avenue for prompt judicial review, andfurther, I think that part of Freedman is intended to dealwith that situation like that present in some of thisCourt's cases, in FW/PBS and in Shuttlesworth inparticular, a situation where the applicant can't be quitesure when the permit's been denied, so the applicantdoesn't quite know when it's okay to go to court.That was what happened in Shuttlesworth, and Ithink that troubled the Court, and I think that's the ideathat when the Court said in FW/PBS there must be an avenuefor prompt judicial review, that's what the Court had inmind, that the permitting scheme cannot be set up in sucha way that whenever -- when the applicant goes to Court th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC the permitting authority can then step back and say, oh,we haven't denied the permit yet.Here, it's clear when we deny it. We have toact within a certain number of days. We have to issue astatement. The statement has to give reasons, and thereis -- and at that point the decision can be challenged inState court in a variety of ways. It can also bechallenged --QUESTION: I suppose the very fact that you havethose provisions in means it's a little different from theordinary zoning ordinance or business license, becausethose are all motivated by First Amendment concerns, Iassume.May I ask you, how would you -- I understandyour basic position, but are you saying that this is not aprior restraint, or that it's a permissible priorrestraint?MR. STRAUSS: Well, Justice --QUESTION: Or are you just ducking the issue?(Laughter.)MR. STRAUSS: No, Justice Stevens, I don't -- Iwouldn't want to duck the issue. I'd want to say it was aterminological issue, which I guess is different fromducking it.I think it's misleading to characterize it as a th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC prior restraint. As Justice Kennedy said, there were sometechnical definitional way in which yes, it is a priorrestraint, but it really has none of the characteristicsthat have caused the Court to subject prior restraints tothe presumption of unconstitutionality.In particular, as I said to Justice Souter, thisisn't an area in which the Court has said the preferredway of regulating is by after-the-fact criminalpunishments. The Court has always recognized that whatcommon sense tells us, that this an area where you reallydo need before-the-fact guidance, or at least before-the-fact guidance is acceptable.That, combined with the fact that it's not acontent-based -- not only not a content-based scheme, nota content-based scheme that even refers to expression atall, I think gives it none of the characteristics thathave troubled the Court about prior restraints, so inlight of that, whether it is technically called not aprior restraint, or a valid prior restraint, I thinkreally is a terminological point.QUESTION: So if something like this is to beconsidered valid, what are the limits to make itreasonable as a regulation? We've already mentionedprompt action should be required, perhaps, by the park. Do you agree with that? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. STRAUSS: If the Court does not accept ourargument that this is more like a business license, thenyes, prompt action or a specified time for action by theadministrator.QUESTION: And prompt judicial reviewopportunity.MR. STRAUSS: And an opportunity for promptjudicial review, that's right. Otherwise, just --QUESTION: How about the adequacy of judicialreview? I take it one objection was that you don't getany actual hearing in court. Everything is on the paperrecord.MR. STRAUSS: Justice Ginsburg, my reading ofthe Illinois cases is that that's not true even in Statecourt and, of course, the applicant has the option ofgoing to the Federal court.My reading of the Illinois cases is that you canjoin a claim for equitable relief with the common lawcertiorari, which is the Illinois way of reviewingadministrative proceedings, and you can certainly -- it'sclear you could join a -- a State court in a action, and that would allow you to conduct fulldiscovery.But I guess my more fundamental answer to yourquestion, Justice Ginsburg, is, it seems odd in this case th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC to speculate about the adequacy of Illinois procedureswhen petitioner has not invoked them, and has notcomplained about the adequacy of the Federal proceedingsthat he has invoked, that the place to decide whetherIllinois provides adequate proceedings would be in a casewhere someone invokes them, and the Court then sees whatthe Illinois courts are prepared to do in cases of thiskind.If the Court has no further questions --QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. Strauss.Mr. Feldman, we'll hear from you.ORAL ARGUMENT OF JAMES A. FELDMANON BEHALF OF THE UNITED STATES, AS AMICUS CURIAE,SUPPORTING THE RESPONDENTMR. FELDMAN: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court:It's our position that the park district'sordinance satisfies the First Amendment standards and thejudgment of the court of appeals should be affirmed.QUESTION: Do you think we should view it as Mr.Strauss urges, as a zoning ordinance, or a businesslicense, or as some kind of content-neutral time, place,and manner restriction?MR. FELDMAN: I think more the latter. This isa public forum. There was a finding -- there may be other th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Government property that wouldn't fall within thatcategory, but it is a public forum, and restrictions onspeech in a public forum are subject to the FirstAmendment, but the restriction in this ordinance, therelevant restrictions are that the discretion that has tobe -- that may be exercised by the administrative bodycan't be unfettered, but on the other hand, totalprecision is not required, and I think, as Mr. Straussexplained, there are specified grounds under which apermit may be denied here, and those are the only groundsunder which it may be denied, and I think that's adequateguidance for whatever discretion or flexibility would bein the system. And indeed, some flexibility is necessaryin a system where you re trying to accommodate competingusers and where the alternative, as the Court of Appealssaid, if you allowed no flexibility at all, would be evena minor or technical violation of one of those criteria,would have to lead to a denial of a permit, which wouldmean a lot fewer people using the park, both for speechand for nonspeech purposes.QUESTION: It would make it a lot fairer,wouldn't it? I mean, you either meet the criteria, or youdon't. If you don't meet them, you don't get a permit. What's the matter with that?MR. FELDMAN: The problem would be exactly the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC kind of thing that Mr. Strauss described, is that if thereis a minor -- if you put in your permit applicationslightly too late, or there was a stray mark on yourapplication, requiring total strictness on any of thesecriteria would just mean that people who really should beentitled to have the opportunity to speak --QUESTION: Well, they didn't follow the rules. I mean, you're giving enormous discretion to the city. They don't have discretion to deny, but among those thatare deniable, they can allow some in and not allow othersin.MR. FELDMAN: But I think --QUESTION: Why don't you just say, these are therules, if you come in late, you haven't complied with therules, period. That's very fair.MR. FELDMAN: I think as Mr. Strauss -- I thinkit was Mr. Strauss said, the -- whatever the flexibilityor discretion that remains in a system like this wouldbe -- has to be exercised in accordance with those groundsfor denial. Those are the only grounds that are listed,and I think those are the only things the park district issupposed to be taking into account in deciding whether togrant or deny a permit, and -- but you can --QUESTION: How do you say it doesn't frustratethe purpose of the provision which says, you know, the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC thing has to be in, you know, weeks beforehand, if youget it in week beforehand? How can you possibly saythat doesn't frustrate the purpose of the provision? Thepurpose is to give you weeks to consider it.MR. FELDMAN: Right, but I think -- well, itcould well be that the purpose is to make sure that thepark district can guarantee it can consider it, but ifthey -- if it comes in on a day, day late but there'snothing else on top of it that they're waiting toconsider, if it's in the wintertime when they have veryfew permit applications, they can get to it anyhow, andthere's no reason for them not to permit that use of thepark. In any event, that's --QUESTION: Even apart from that, I assumethere's no way to write a regulation that is not going torequire some judgment, some discretion. I mean, what'smaterial in the falsehood, what is the conflict in theuses? I don't suppose you can eliminate that degree, thedegree of flexibility that is implied in applying conceptslike that.MR. FELDMAN: I think that's right, and I thinka crucial feature of this requirement is that, of theordinance here is that the parks are used for multipleuses by multiple people. There's a concern withpreserving the park's own facilities so that people who th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC will use the same place in the future will have thatavailable to them, and there has to be some availabilityto accommodate all of that in the normal, in an ordinaryadministrative scheme, and I think this scheme is well-drawn, and if there are further difficulties with it, theycan be challenged on an as-applied basis.One thing the park district can't do is make itsdecisions based on favoring or disfavoring particularkinds of speech.QUESTION: Would it be --MR. FELDMAN: That should be addressed on an as-applied basis, and I think it could be in the State courtproceedings, or in a proceeding.QUESTION: Along the lines of Justice Scalia'squestion, would it be proper for a city council ormunicipality to draft an ordinance just like this one andthen at the end saying, the commissioner of parks, in hissole discretion, may waive any or all of the foregoingrequirements?MR. FELDMAN: I think the -- the onlydifficulty -- it would depend on what that meant. If itsaid, in his sole discretion meant he may consideranything he -- anything, I think that would be -- thatwould probably be a problem, but if it meant, consideringthe factors that are the legitimate factors on whether th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC someone should use the park, which are the ones that areset out in the criteria, in the ordinance, I think itwould be actually similar to what the ordinance is.QUESTION: Well, we've said in a case likeForsyth that discretion has to have some definition andsome control to it, and if you have at the end an absolutewaiver provision, it seems to me that would contradictthat.MR. FELDMAN: Oh, I think -- well, I thinkthat's right. If the meaning of that provision is thatnotwithstanding what we've just said, the commissioner hasabsolute discretion, I think that that would be correct,and that would pose a problem under Forsyth and the othercases that have said that you can't have that kind ofunfettered discretion.This is a guided -- this is a statute that hasquite limited and guided --QUESTION: Well, how do we know that? Wheredoes it say that the may, the may grant anyway is limitedto those applications that generally meet the purposes ofthe -- where does it say that? Do we just take your wordfor it?MR. FELDMAN: Well --QUESTION: Or the park district's word for it?MR. FELDMAN: I think that that would at least th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC be the most reasonable construction of an ordinance likethis, where there's attempt to detail these specificcriteria quite specifically, and there's no suggestionthat there's any other basis on which the park districtcan act, and I think that that's just the most reasonableinterpretation of this kind of ordinance.And again on a facial as-applied -- onedifficulty with a facial challenge to an ordinance likethis is, you don't want to construe it in such a way as tointentionally render it unconstitutional and thereforelimit the ability of the park district to make itsfacilities open, to have a permit scheme that really makesits facilities open to all.QUESTION: Mr. Feldman, do the Federalregulations for the use of Federal parks, the use of theMall, do they differ with respect to the may deny?MR. FELDMAN: No. They're -- well, they're verysimilar. The specific criteria are different, and aredifferently --QUESTION: But there is the may deny, implyingthere are cases where, although you could, you don't haveto deny?MR. FELDMAN: That's correct.QUESTION: And no criteria for the waiver in theFederal scheme either? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. FELDMAN: No, and the way those haveconsistently been applied is, those are the grounds thatare to be considered in determining whether you can granta permit, and there aren't other grounds on which a permitwould be denied.Now, there -- the only other -- but actually, inthe Federal scheme at least, and probably here, too, sometypes of other -- some types of considerations can beconsidered. For example, if someone has a particularfacility that would be particularly good for one use, ifsomeone wants to hold a rally on a baseball field, someoneelse wants to have a baseball game there, I think they cansay, well, you have the baseball game on the baseballfield, and you have your rally at another location, andthere is some of that that goes on in proposing differentparticular locales so as to accommodate all of thedifferent users who want to use the park.QUESTION: And is there a first come, firstserve rule?MR. FELDMAN: Basically, yes. If you satisfythe other requirements of the rule, it's basically similarto this. It's subject to -- the actual first come, firstserved rule under the National Park Service parks here inWashington like this has to do with the date of theapplication, not the date on which it's processed. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC If there are no other, further questions, thatconcludes --QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. Feldman.Mr. Wilson, you have minutes remaining.REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF RICHARD L. WILSONON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERSMR. WILSON: Justice O'Connor, I'd like toaddress quickly two points that you raised. First,there's no meaningful administrative procedure. There isno mechanism. They send you a letter telling you thatyour permit was denied, and they read off the violations. You send a letter back and say, I did not do any of that,and they say, oh, yes, you did, denied. That's the end ofit. There is no hearing. You don't even get to know whomade the allegations.Secondly, in your inquiry as to judicial review,this Court unanimously provided us with a crystal cleardefinition of prompt judicial review. There should be nomystery in the Federal circuits. Another unanimousopinion, Blunt v. Rizzi, written by the same Justice whowrote Freedman, and on a Court that contains six of thejustices who participated in Freedman, Blunt definedprompt judicial review as follows:A final judicial determination on the meritswithin a specified brief period. That was in , so th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC there should have been no mystery from the plurality ofopinion in FW/PBS, because that plurality opinion did notsay, there must be the availability of judicial review. That opinion said, there must be availability of promptjudicial review --QUESTION: Mr. Wilson, what does that mean ifyou pick the Federal court, that Illinois is going towrite a statute that says, and if you choose to come tothe Federal court rather than the State court, the Federalcourt is going to have X number of days to decide it?MR. WILSON: Justice Ginsburg, that would be thechoice of the park district of the City of Chicago,because the park district is the party that has to go tocourt to seek --QUESTION: Oh, if you're -- but that's not whatJustice O'Connor said in her case. She didn't take thatlast part of Freedman.MR. WILSON: But there's certainly a distinctionbetween those businesses that Justice O'Connor was writingabout in FW/PBS and a core political speech.QUESTION: Well, suppose we reject your notionthat the scheme is invalid unless the park goes to court,and the court has a tight time line? Suppose we rejectthat?MR. WILSON: I would then say, Justice Ginsburg, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC that this Court has elevated the kind of sexually explicitspeech in that case above the core political speech inthis case, based on the context of the speech, which wouldfly in the face of --QUESTION: Well, I don't follow that at all.CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: Thank you, Mr. Wilson. The case is submitted.(Whereupon, at : p.m., the case in the above-entitled matter was submitted.) th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC 