 IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XNATIONAL RAILROAD PASSENGER CORPORATION, Petitioner :::v. : No. -ABNER MORGAN, JR. :- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XWashington, D.C.Wednesday, January , The above-entitled matter came on for oralargument before the Supreme Court of the United States at: a.m.APPEARANCES:ROY T. ENGLERT, JR., ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalfof the Petitioner.AUSTIN C. SCHLICK, ESQ., Assistant to the SolicitorGeneral, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; onbehalf of the United States, as amicus curiae,supporting the Petitioner. PAMELA Y. PRICE, ESQ., Oakland, California; on behalf ofthe Respondent. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC C O N T E N T SORAL ARGUMENT OF ROY T. ENGLERT, JR., ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioner AUSTIN C. SCHLICK, ESQ.On behalf of the United States, as amicus curiae, supporting the Petitioner PAMELA Y. PRICE, ESQ.On behalf of the Respondent REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OFROY T. ENGLERT, JR., ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioner PAGE th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC P R O C E E D I N G S(: a.m.)CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: We'll hear argumentnext in No. -, the National Railroad PassengerCorporation v. Abner Morgan.Mr. Englert. ORAL ARGUMENT OF ROY T. ENGLERT, JR.ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERMR. ENGLERT: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice, andmay it please the Court: years ago in United Air Lines v. Evans, thisCourt observed that an employer was entitled to treat apast act as lawful after respondent failed to file atimely charge of discrimination. In the Court's words --and I quote -- a discriminatory act, which has not madethe basis for a timely charge, is the legal equivalent ofa discriminatory act which occurred before the statute waspassed. The Court further referred to the allegeddiscriminatory act outside the limitations period asmerely an unfortunate event in history which has nopresent legal consequences. In the present case, Abner Morgan challenges asdiscriminatory various acts that he did not make the basisfor an EEOC charge within days. Our contention isthat Amtrak was entitled to treat those past acts as th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC lawful after the passage of days. Those acts aremerely unfortunate events in history with no present legalconsequences. The Ninth Circuit saw things quite differently. According to the Ninth Circuit, all plaintiffs, completelywithout regard to their own diligence, may base suit onevents they didn't make the basis of a timely charge, aslong as those events are sufficiently related to laterevents that can also be characterized as discrimination.QUESTION: Well, Mr. Englert, there are, Iassume even in your view, a few exceptions to this rule. When is it that you would look back?MR. ENGLERT: For certain diligent plaintiffs --QUESTION: Yes. MR. ENGLERT: -- who bring suit within daysafter their cause of action first accrues, we would lookback. That obviously isn't this case. QUESTION: And there's no other circumstance,you think, where you would end up looking back beyond --where the -- the full thrust of -- of what was going ondidn't become evident until the statute had passed as someearly -- on some earlier events? MR. ENGLERT: We would allow plaintiffs, inexactly the situation you described, Justice O'Connor, tolook back, the situation in which it was not fully evident th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC until within the -day period what was going on. Thatis the exception we're willing to concede.QUESTION: I don't understand how's that's anexception. I thought we were talking about the periodbefore the days. Is there any instance in which youwould allow a person to get recovery for something thathappened to him prior to days before he filed?MR. ENGLERT: Yes, Justice Breyer. If the --QUESTION: What is that? MR. ENGLERT: -- if the events outside the -day window were not sufficiently severe or pervasive torise to the level of being actionable, then we wouldconcede that the cause of action doesn't accrue untilthey've become sufficiently severe or pervasive.QUESTION: What about the circumstance wherethey're very much related to what did occur within the days, but the person isn't certain? I mean, later on thejudge says, yes, it was independently actionable, but Icould understand how a person at the time might think itwasn't. What about that one?MR. ENGLERT: Well, there may be close cases,Justice Breyer, and --QUESTION: No, no. But I want to know. This --that is the case. A judge would say a reasonable personwould not have realized, though he would have been wrong, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC that those outside-the-period events rose to the level ofgiving him a cause of action. How would you decide thatcase? case.MR. ENGLERT: We -- we would give away thatQUESTION: Okay. MR. ENGLERT: If a reasonable person would nothave known --QUESTION: Fine. QUESTION: Would not have known his injury. So-- so you're saying the test under the act is not injury,but knowledge of injury. MR. ENGLERT: Well, Justice Scalia, that getsinto the debate, of course, this Court has had --QUESTION: I know it does. You're -- you'regiving it away. You're saying that under the act,knowledge of injury is --MR. ENGLERT: No. I -- I'm not trying to givethat away. I'm trying not to take a position on that. Iunderstood Justice Breyer's question to pertain to thesituation in which the judge says a reasonable personwould not have known, not this particular plaintiffwouldn't have known, but a reasonable person would nothave known. QUESTION: Oh, in practice, that's always an th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC exception to the knowledge of injury rule. With duediligence, he didn't know. I mean, but -- but that --you're willing to accept that. MR. ENGLERT: That's why I'm not trying to giveaway anything on injury versus injury discovery.QUESTION: With due diligence -- with duediligence -- the person had due diligence but didn't know. So, it's a -- it's a knowledge -- it's a knowledge ofinjury test. QUESTION: Not a subjective knowledge of injurybut knowledge of injury that -- that would have occurredto a reasonable person.MR. ENGLERT: Exactly, Mr. Chief Justice, and --QUESTION: All right. If you're willing to givethat one away, what about a person who, though he mighthave understood -- a reasonable person might haveunderstood that this would have been actionable, he's inthe middle of negotiations with his company there --there, and it would have been foolish to go to the EEOC.MR. ENGLERT: That plaintiff loses.QUESTION: I mean, because after all, we'retrying to settle this thing right within the company.MR. ENGLERT: That plaintiff loses, JusticeBreyer. That's quite clear.QUESTION: He loses. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. ENGLERT: That's quite clear under caseslike Robinson Meyers.QUESTION: And -- and why should he lose wherethe other one doesn't? MR. ENGLERT: Because this Court has said so. Cases like Robinson Meyers and Johnson v. --QUESTION: Are you talking about EEOC cases?MR. ENGLERT: Those -- those are title VII casesin which -- Robinson Meyers was a case in which theplaintiff exhausted union grievances and then filed theEEOC charge, and the Court said, no, you should have filedyour EEOC charge within the statutory period. QUESTION: Mr. Englert, I'm not aware that thereis a case -- perhaps I'm wrong about this -- quite likethis where there are a succession of similar acts, anumber of disciplines, a number of refusal to givetraining opportunities, and the employee goes to the EEO-- the in-house person, tries to settle it, tries not tomake a Federal case out of it. And -- but the rule thatyou would have us adopt would say if you're in doubt, sueinstead of saying, if you're in doubt -- each one of thesediscrete instances that he was trying to work out, wewould have to have -- your rule would mean that thisperson has to file charges with the EEOC instead ofone. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. ENGLERT: Well, it's not when in doubt, sue,Justice Ginsburg. It is when in doubt, go to the EEOC,and it's an important distinction because the purpose offiling with the EEOC is to start a conciliatory process.QUESTION: But he's always -- he also has thein-house. He's got a conciliatory process going withoutinvolving the Federal Government. He's just dealing withhis employer. His employer has an EEO counselor. That hedid. He didn't come to a Federal agency. So, let's takeit that we're talking about the EEOC and not suing incourt. The EEOC -- one of its objections is you wouldbe breeding tremendous fragmentation here because on everyincident in a pattern, he'd have to file another EEOCcharge. That much you are saying.MR. ENGLERT: That much I am saying, and that isvery consistent with the purposes of the title VII charge-filing requirement, which is to cause plaintiffs to gopromptly to the EEOC, as this Court itself has said in anumber of its cases, and to get that process startedquickly. Now, there -- there could be rare cases, JusticeGinsburg, in which equitable tolling would apply on thefacts that you've suggested. This isn't one of them, andI don't think there are many such cases. But if one is in th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC the middle of some kind of negotiation and is being misledinto thinking that it's all going to work out andtherefore don't got to the EEOC, that person might have anequitable tolling argument, although as this Court hassaid, the virtue of equitable tolling is that it is sorarely invoked --QUESTION: Well, I guess any statute oflimitations of any sort means you -- you have to sue times instead of one time, doesn't it?MR. ENGLERT: Yes. QUESTION: I mean, it's the nature of a statuteof limitations that when you're hurt, you have to sue. You can't wait till you're hurt the th time and thensay, well, you know, let's put it in one big package. I'll wait years until I'm hurt -- hurt more often.MR. ENGLERT: Yes, Justice Scalia, and --QUESTION: Mr. Englert, I don't think that thisis in any case. I think you have recognized that in theso-called hostile atmosphere case, the first epithet, eventhe second, it's -- it's uncertain when how much is enoughand when it's insufficient. So, I think you recognizethat at least in that category of case, there would haveto be a succession of similar incidents.MR. ENGLERT: Yes. That's part of thedefinition of the very violation of title VII in hostile th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC environment cases. QUESTION: In other words, you're -- you'resaying that there is no pervasive hostility, no pervasivehostile environment until the acts are repeated, or is itthere is a pervasive hostile environment, but it's justnot discovered until the acts are repeated? Which --which of the two is it? MR. ENGLERT: The case I'm willing to concede,looking back beyond days, is the case in which thereis no hostile environment until within the -day period. The fact that the hostile environment isn't discovered Ihave not conceded. That -- that case I have not conceded.QUESTION: Wait. Now, you say there is nohostile -- what are you conceding? That that -- that thatevidence can be brought in, or that you can get damagesfor those events? MR. ENGLERT: I'm conceding that you can getback pay or damages for those events as the SeventhCircuit said in Galloway and as the First Circuit said inSabree. QUESTION: Well, why if -- if you assert thatthere hasn't been any offense when those events occurred? You say there's not yet a hostile environment. Why shouldyou be able to get any damages for a period during whichthere as not a hostile environment? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. ENGLERT: Well, the hypothetical example,Justice Scalia, that I think makes the point is supposethere is an epithet at the office Christmas party oneyear. Then there's an epithet at the office Christmasparty the next year. Then there's an epithet at theoffice Christmas party the third year, and the person hasto seek psychological counseling after each of those. It's not going to rise to the level, in all likelihood, ofa hostile environment after one epithet, but withrepetition, it can rise to the level of a hostileenvironment. QUESTION: Well, sure, but it doesn't make thefirst one a hostile environment. MR. ENGLERT: No, but the statute oflimitations, under standard accrual principles, didn'tbegin to run until it became a hostile environment, andwe're suggesting --QUESTION: But if that's the case, you don'thave to concede anything because the hostile environmentdoesn't occur, as you're analyzing it, until -- within the-day period. I thought what you meant was that you wouldconcede the -- the case -- you would concede theapplication of continuing violation when the hostileenvironment was not apparent enough to bring a lawsuit th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC until you get within the -day period -- yes, the -- thelimitation period. MR. ENGLERT: Yes.QUESTION: Okay. But you're saying that -- I --I thought, in answer to Justice Scalia, you were sayingthere is no hostile environment prior to the thirdincident, which is within the period.MR. ENGLERT: No, I --QUESTION: Maybe that isn't what you meant.MR. ENGLERT: I think --QUESTION: That's how I understood him.MR. ENGLERT: Justice Souter -- and I don't knowthat I want to spend much more of my argument onconcessions, but --(Laughter.) MR. ENGLERT: -- I think the -- the point isthat the entire series of actions that constitute thehostile environment are all part of the hostileenvironment, but it may not --QUESTION: Okay. Then the hostile environmentgoes back beyond the -day period. You're saying ahostile environment began with the first epithet, but youdidn't have a -- a sufficiently obvious indication of ituntil you got to epithet three. MR. ENGLERT: In / hindsight, this is how th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC hostile environment cases work. An epithet that was not ahostile environment on day may actually become part of ahostile environment on day .QUESTION: Good. Then change your answer to myearlier question because I asked you whether there was ahostile environment at the first incident -- incident, andyou said no, it -- there was not yet until the lastincident. You're talking about a different situationwhere there's been a hostile environment all along, but itdoesn't become apparent until the third incident, butthere really was one the first time the epithet was used. That's a different situation, and we got to know which oneof the two you -- you want us to allow. QUESTION: And that was my -- and that was myquestion. And I want to know which one you think thiscase is, and I also want to know can there be both kindsof cases and we have to see which applies -- whichdescription applies in each instance. MR. ENGLERT: Okay. In -- in this case, Mr.Morgan was complaining to members of Congress starting in. There is absolutely no doubt that he thought thathe was being discriminated against from long before thestatute of limitations ran. QUESTION: Is this a hostile environment claim,do you think? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. ENGLERT: Not primarily, but there is ahostile environment claim in this case as the NinthCircuit saw it. QUESTION: It is in the case. Is it a patternand practice case? MR. ENGLERT: No, Your Honor. Pattern orpractice is a term in section of the act, whichapplies exclusively to governmental actions, and the Courthas used that phrase in certain class actions as well --in private class actions, but this is not a class actioneither. QUESTION: But it could be a hostile environmentclaim included here.MR. ENGLERT: The Ninth Circuit believed therewas, yes. But in any event, Mr. Morgan was -- was wellaware long before he filed his EEOC charge that he had a-- a claim of discrimination. I --QUESTION: May I ask you about a hypotheticalthat's perhaps a little simpler to discuss? Supposing thecompany had a policy that was unwritten or secret orsomething like that, we will not allow any woman into acertain job category, no woman, no black into a certainjob category. It's -- it's found out years after thepolicy was formally described and so forth. And then a th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC person who repeatedly tried to get into that job categoryover the entire -year period but was refused each timebecause of the existence of a continuing policy, does thatperson have any right to recover for anything happeningprior to the days? MR. ENGLERT: I think not, Justice Stevens, butthat raises two issues that are not in this case. One isfraudulent concealment, and the second is the issue ofinjury versus injury discovery for statutes oflimitation --QUESTION: I'm assuming there's no discovery,but I'm assuming --MR. ENGLERT: No. QUESTION: -- if you can ever describe anythingas a continuing violation, I have described a continuingdiscriminatory policy. And if it's clear as a bell thatit's all one policy and it had a several -- manifesteditself in several different incidents, is it -- may aplaintiff recover for something that happened prior to the-day filing? That's my -- sort of the basic questionin this case it seems to me. MR. ENGLERT: My short answer is no.QUESTION: Okay. MR. ENGLERT: My longer answer is no unless thisCourt resolves an issue that is not presented by this case th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC which is injury versus injury discovery in favor of aninjury discovery rule. QUESTION: You're saying injury would not beenough.MR. ENGLERT: That issue is not in this case,but that is my -- I'm saying injury would be enough.QUESTION: Well, arguably it would be in thiscase to the extent the hostile environment claim is acontinuing violation. I don't know whether it is, butarguably that's -- the hostile environment claimconceivably could be a continuing policy also. MR. ENGLERT: It could be, but the reason I'mmaking a concession with regard to hostile environmentclaims is not injury versus injury discovery. The reasonI'm making a concession is because under standardprinciples of accrual, the plaintiff may not sue until heor she actually has a cause of action. And because ahostile environment claim can only develop over time, itmay be that not until the third, fourth, fifth epithet,incident is -- is there anything for the plaintiff to sueon.QUESTION: Well, my assumption is a case --there was a violation all along, but the -- the charge wasnot filed within days of the commencement of acontinuing violation. The question I have in the back of th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC my mind is, could there be recovery for the portion of thecontinuing violation that was more than days old?MR. ENGLERT: There -- no. There can always berecovery for the portion of the continuing violationwithin the days. QUESTION: Mr. Englert, you have been deflectedfrom what I think is the strongest point on the other sidethat said, that's all well and good, but Congressunderstood you could go back way beyond the daysbecause they put a -year cap on back pay.MR. ENGLERT: Yes. QUESTION: So, that shows how, whatever youmight say, just looking at the words of the statute,Congress understood that you have to shorten the periodand the period they picked was years, much longer than days or .MR. ENGLERT: And let me try very quickly to saywhy that argument is not a good argument. Congress didworry that there was no time limit on title VII actionsand it put the years in there. But that's because ofthe continuing effects doctrine, which this Courtrepudiated in , and that's because this Court hadn'tclearly said the title VII statute of limitations issection (e) until in Zipes. Many of the lowercourts were actually borrowing State statutes of th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC limitations on the theory that title VII had no statute oflimitations of its own. This Court laid that to rest inZipes, and now all of the Federal courts of appeals,including the Ninth Circuit, agree that (e) is astatute of limitations.If I may, I'd like to reserve the balance of mytime. QUESTION: Very well, Mr. Englert. Mr. Schlick, we'll hear from you.ORAL ARGUMENT OF AUSTIN C. SCHLICKON BEHALF OF THE UNITED STATES,AS AMICUS CURIAE, SUPPORTING THE PETITIONERMR. SCHLICK: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court:This Court's decision in Zipes established andthe Court reaffirmed in Lorance that section (e)operates as a statute of limitations. The limitationsperiod begins to run with the occurrence of the allegedunlawful employment practice. In this case, respondent could sue on allegedviolations that occurred not more than days before hefiled his charge with EEOC, but he could not sue onalleged violations that occurred earlier and outside thelimitations period. Our construction of section (e) gives effect th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC to the balance underlying that provision. On the onehand, it ensures that plaintiffs are able to sue andrecover for ongoing violations. At the same time, itensures that employers will not be liable for violationsthat -- that occurred long ago.QUESTION: When you say ongoing violations andtaking my hypothetical, could they recover for damagesprior to the days? MR. SCHLICK: In your hypothetical, JusticeStevens, recovery would only be available if equitabletolling came into play. As -- absent equitable tollingbased on -- based on the conceal -- equitable estoppelbased on the concealment that you mentioned in yourhypothetical, recovery would be limited to days. QUESTION: In my hypothetical it would belimited to days. MR. SCHLICK: Yes, Justice Stevens. The factthat it was continuing would not -- would not affect theapplication of a -day period. QUESTION: In a nutshell, where do you think theNinth Circuit went wrong, which I take it you believe isthe case here?MR. SCHLICK: Yes, Justice O'Connor. There weretwo categories of claims at issue in this case. The firstis what Ninth Circuit referred to as serial violations, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC that is, independently actionable alleged violations oftitle VII. And as to -- as to those claims, the NinthCircuit went wrong in holding that violations thatoccurred -- that accrued more than days before the --the charge was filed were actionable. The second claim was a hostile work environmentclaim. Now, the allegation of the complaint and theclaims at trial were that the hostile work environmentbecame actionable right from the outset of Mr. Morgan'semployment with -- with Amtrak. It was actionablethroughout the period. Mr. Morgan, however, didn't bringa charge on that -- on that claim until years later. Accordingly, he could only recover for days of thealleged maintenance of the hostile work environment. Now, our construction --QUESTION: On your theory then, the -- the onlything that the continuing violation concept gives, ineffect, is a right to use evidence of something thathappened prior to the period. It does not, in effect,give any right to damages for the -- whatever the damageis for the hostility prior to the -day period. So, youturned it into an evidentiary rule, it seems to me. MR. SCHLICK: No. Although evidence says thatevents outside the limitations period are admissible asbackground evidence, our view of the continuing violation th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC doctrine is that it allows a plaintiff to suenotwithstanding that there may have been notice of -- ofsimilar violations outside the limitations period. Andthat's the application of the continuing violationdoctrine --QUESTION: Oh. So, you're saying if there hasbeen no -- let's -- let's assume a case in which there isno independent notice of the hostile environment withinthe -day period. They would still be able to sue on acontinuing violation theory. Whereas, if it were a purelyevidentiary rule, they would not be able to sue withinthat period. MR. SCHLICK: Suit -- suit could be broughtwithin days for the entirety provided that it accruedwithin the days. And the -- the relevance of thecontinuing violation rule is that notice outside thelimitations period -- in this case going back to theserial claims, in this case notice of related violationsoutside the limitations period do not prevent Mr. Morganfor suing on violations that occurred within thelimitations period. QUESTION: Let's -- let's assume you have ahostile work environment that goes on for days. Hedoesn't bring an action until the last days or untilday . What -- what you're saying, I believe -- and th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC correct me if I'm wrong -- is that the mere fact that the hostile work environment really commenced days agodoes -- or days ago does not bar you from gettingdamages for the last days. MR. SCHLICK: That's right, Justice Scalia. When you say commenced, I understand you to mean accrued. It became actionable. QUESTION: It became -- it became a hostile workenvironment --MR. SCHLICK: Yes. QUESTION: -- days ago. MR. SCHLICK: That's correct, Justice Scalia.QUESTION: But it continued to be a -- a hostilework for all days. You can sue for the last days --MR. SCHLICK: That's correct, Justice Scalia.QUESTION: -- even though it's --QUESTION: And you also think he can -- don'tyou think he can get damages for the whole days if areasonable person wouldn't have realized that those first days were actionable?MR. SCHLICK: That, Justice Breyer, is thequestion of accrual under Harris. The -- the standard forthe claim in that case would be whether the workenvironment -- the -- was severe and pervasive both th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC objectively and subjectively. QUESTION: All right. Now, if you -- if you --what about just modifying it a little to try to givemeaning to the years of back pay that you could get andall the other things and realities of the work place, andsay, as long as it was reasonable for him not to go to theEEOC, he can recover for the whole days? And there are a lot of reasons it's reasonablenot to go to the EEOC. Maybe because you didn't quiteunderstand what was going on. Maybe you thought it wouldcure itself. Maybe you thought those were just commentsthat some guy made. He should be better educated. Maybeyou thought the employer will work it out. Maybe youthought your supervisor wasn't the rat he turned out tobe. All right, or whatever. You see what I'm saying? Aslong as a judge would say it was reasonable, what aboutthat? MR. SCHLICK: The -- the reasonableness thatwould allow -- that would extend the limitations period is-- is reasonableness that would qualify under theequitable tolling or equitable estoppel doctrines. Andindeed, the limitations period is sometimes extended evenbeyond years, thereby giving effect to the -yearrestriction on back pay under the equitable tollingdoctrine. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: Well, there -- there are a lot ofreasons for not going to court too, but we've never saidthose toll the statute of limitations.MR. SCHLICK: That's correct, and if it's areason which does not --QUESTION: Do you think the Seventh Circuit hasadopted the right test in that regard?MR. SCHLICK: The result of the SeventhCircuit's test is generally consistent with our rule, butthe -- the Seventh Circuit's test is in our view lessdefinite than our own. They seem to ask whether theplaintiff sued at an appropriate time. Our question is,did the plaintiff bring suit within -- or file a charge,rather, within days or days, if applicable, of theaccrual of the violation, of the occurrence of the allegedunlawful employment practice. And that is the ruleestablished in the NLRA, which is the model for title VII.QUESTION: But the agency here -- I mean, that's-- the position that you are taking, on behalf of theUnited States, differs from the EEOC's position which, Iunderstand it, is the position that the Ninth Circuitfollowed. MR. SCHLICK: Yes, Justice Ginsburg. Therespondent and amici rely on regulations issued by theEEOC under section of the act, which is the Federal th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC employer provision. Those regulations are by their termsinapplicable to claims under , and indeed, Congressleft it to the EEOC to establish a -- a framework for --for filing charges that the EEOC requires consultationwithin days with the agency's EEO office. So, it's adifferent structure, and in that context --QUESTION: Well, what is the EEOC's position on-- on this case? MR. SCHLICK: In section cases, respondentcorrectly points out that the EEOC has filed briefs andtaken a position which is consistent with the NinthCircuit's test. Our view is that while that would beevaluated under Skidmore, it is not persuasive for theviews that we've given in our brief. QUESTION: And your answer to the question aboutthe years is that there are cases. There wouldn't bevery many, though, that would fit where would be a -year-- possibility of a -year back pay. MR. SCHLICK: I can give you two cases from theSouthern District of New York last year, Sye v. TheRockefeller University, F.Supp.d ; Bardniak v.Cushman and Wakefield, WL , both last year. In both of those cases, the charge was filed years afterthe last occurrence that's alleged and applying equitabletolling principles, the courts indicated that the -- that th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC the complaint could go forward because of the equitabletolling. QUESTION: And you agree with those equitable --whatever those equitable tolling reasons were? You thinkthose courts handled the case correctly?MR. SCHLICK: Yes. I think so. In both cases,misinformation was provided by the agency, either theState agency or the EEOC itself. In one case there was aquestion of mental -- mental incapacity of the plaintiff,and tolling was additionally extended on that basis.QUESTION: I'm not sure I understand why hostileenvironment cases are unique. Why is that the only kindof continuing violation? I mean, if I'm not giving --given a promotion that I was entitled to because of myrace, I continue not to have that promotion month aftermonth after month. Why isn't that as much of a continuingviolation as is a hostile work environment? MR. SCHLICK: In our view hostile environmentcases are not unique and are not properly exceptions inwhich -- in which a continuing violation doctrine apply. Rather it's a question of accrual, and hostile environmentcases are distinguishable in that they may take a longtime to accrue. But that simply means that when they doaccrue, the charge should be brought within days. Theexample of -- of a discharge would be -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: But I thought you said the opposite. If -- if it accrues now, I can still sue -- dayslater for the hostile work environment of the last days. I thought that's what you said. MR. SCHLICK: If I may answer, Mr. ChiefJustice.QUESTION: Yes.MR. SCHLICK: In that case there is anoccurrence within the days and it's that occurrencethat is the basis for the charge and the complaint withinthe days. QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. Schlick.Ms. Price, we'll hear from you. ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAMELA Y. PRICEON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTMS. PRICE: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it pleasethe Court:Ongoing violations of the law must be treateddifferently from discrete acts. A continuing unlawfulpractice which involves a present violation of the actmeans that the claim is not stale. Limiting liability to days solely would essentially nullify section (g). It would allow the defendant in this case Amtrak -- wouldessentially negate the language of title VII which speaksin terms of practices. It speaks specifically to an th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC unlawful employment practice. QUESTION: Well, I mean, the claim is not stale,of course, as to the continuing acts. The question is canyou go back for the acts as -- as to which the statutearguably has run.MS. PRICE: This is true. QUESTION: And -- and so the -- the question isnot whether or not you can sue continuing acts. If it'sindeed a continuing act, you can sue for the acts that arewithin the -- the period. The question is can you goback.MS. PRICE: Yes, Your Honor. And it is truethat we believe that you can go back. With respect toback pay, Congress has specifically provided under (g)that you can go back years for back pay liability. With -- and there is a difference between aliability for damages and liability for essentiallyliability's sake. Under the statute, under title VII,Congress did not put a limit in as to how far you could goback. It said you must file the charge within daysfor purposes of initiating the conciliatory involvement ofthe EEOC. But filing the charge while, you said in Zipes,it's like a statute of limitations, it does not dictatehow far you go back in terms of establishing theemployer's liability. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC You said in Havens that where you have acontinuing practice of discrimination, that it isappropriate to allow the plaintiff to recover for theentire practice and --QUESTION: But Havens was a different statute,was it not? MS. PRICE: It is a -- it is -- yes, sir. Itwas a different statute but it has the same language andit has the same purpose. It was a statute intended tooutlaw discrimination, and it is supposed to beinterpreted with the same understanding, one, that it's astatute that's going to be utilized by lay persons, andtwo, that it has a broad remedial intent.QUESTION: Well, have we ever set aside thistype of statute and said we give all possible breaks toplaintiffs on it? I don't believe we have.MS. PRICE: No. I don't believe you have. AndI think what you said in Zipes, Mr. Chief Justice, wasthat it was necessary to strike a balance to allow for theprompt filing for -- to give notice to allow the EEOC togive notice to the employer and to be sure to effectuatethe remedial intent of the statute. So, there was abalance struck. If you date the trigger period for the statuteof limitations from the date that the person either knew th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC or reasonably should have known, you disrupt that balancebecause then you're moving the trigger from the lastoccurrence of the practice to an uncertain time when theplaintiff either reasonably should have known orunreasonably should have known. QUESTION: Ms. Price, the Ninth Circuit, whosejudgment we're reviewing here, as nearly as I can tellseems to take a different view of what can be included fordamages as actionable than that taken by other circuitsthat have looked at the same statute and the same problem.MS. PRICE: It is -- yes, ma'am. QUESTION: Would you agree with that? MS. PRICE: Yes, ma'am. I would agree that ithas taken a -- that there is a split in the circuits. Ibelieve --QUESTION: Yes, a very lopsided split really.MS. PRICE: Well, I think the Ninth Circuit'sposition is actually in the majority view. QUESTION: It's a big circuit. Right? MS. PRICE: Yes. (Laughter.) MS. PRICE: Yes, but none of the circuitsdisagree about what constitutes a continuing violation. Where the disagreement is is in -- similar in this case. There's a disagreement between us and Amtrak as to when th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC the trigger for the practice -- for the charge-filingrequirement occurs. There's a disagreement as -- with --between us and the Government as to what is covered inthat -day period. QUESTION: Well, if there are separate eventsthat have occurred and if each one standing alone would beactionable and if no charge is filed or suit brought untilafter the time limit established for some of theviolations, what do we do? MS. PRICE: Well, you look, as the circuits haveuniformly looked, as to whether or not it is a practice ora continuing violation. You -- it's -- you -- if you lookat the case as a series of discrete acts, then yes, welose. But it's not a case where there's a series ofdiscrete acts, and in fact, the majority of the issuesthat Mr. Morgan was addressing were not actionable in andof themselves. The initiation of disciplinary action --QUESTION: Do you think the acts that occurredbefore the applicable statutory period had expired wereactionable?MS. PRICE: I -- no, I don't. I think thatthere were some that, if they had occurred in isolation,could have been actionable. When we presented the case,we did not pursue this case as one for a violation, forexample, of the -- his termination and then ultimate th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC suspension in . We did --QUESTION: But if you -- if you say that anevent, if it occurred in isolation, would be actionable,you are saying then that it was actionable by itselfwithout combining it with anything else. MS. PRICE: Yes, sir, I am saying that. It istrue that if that is -- the difference between a discreteact and a continuing practice of discrimination.QUESTION: Well, what do you mean by acontinuing -- let -- let's -- let's take the failure togive a person a promotion because of her sex or his raceor whatever. Let's assume that that occurs and then --and then the claim is made years later. During thatwhole years, the person hasn't gotten the promotion. And is it your position that -- that when it is finallyfiled years later, you can get back pay or damages forthe whole years, even though, you know, you had theclaim years ago. MS. PRICE: Well, a promotion, as I understandthe law, is a distinct area, and there are somecircumstances where the courts have held that a promotionwould result in extending the time for one to recoverdamages. There are other situations where we want todistinguish between a promotion that simply involves thecontinuing effects. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC We're not talking about, as -- as the Court iswell aware, a promotion in this case or a situation whereit's simply Mr. Morgan is suffering the continuing effectsof a prior decision. We're talking about a continuingseries of acts that continued up until the charge-filingperiod that were motivated by retaliation anddiscrimination. We're talking about a hostile environmentclaim, and the Court should be clear there was a questionas to whether or not this case involved a hostileenvironment. We brought that to the trial court'sattention, and on October nd, , she issued aspecific order ruling --QUESTION: Well, I -- I don't -- I'm not surewhat your answer is to my hypothetical, and -- and I askedthe hypothetical because frankly I don't see how a hostileenvironment claim is any different from a failure topromote claim. That failure to promote continues. The --the loss of salary continues right over the years, justas a hostile environment claim continues over years.MS. PRICE: This Court has defined a hostileenvironment as the -- the actionable part of it is theenvironment itself. It's not the discrete acts. In theJustice's hypothetical, I believe that you're focusing onthe discrete act of a failure to promote that individual,which is -- has a definite beginning, end. It's right th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC there. It happens. In a hostile environment, it's not so simple. Hostile environment -- you can have an act that might notbe actionable, but when you -- when you look at it over aperiod of time, a series of acts, that it's cumulative andthe harm is indivisible. In a promotion case, the harm isrelated solely to the failure to promote. In a hostileenvironment case, you can't separate the harm that'scaused on day from the harm that's caused on day .QUESTION: What you're saying, if I understandit correct, is the promotion is a discrete violation withcontinuing effects, whereas a hostile environment is acontinuing violation.MS. PRICE: Yes. Yes, Justice Stevens.QUESTION: Which is two quite different things. MS. PRICE: Yes, sir.QUESTION: Suppose you have a continuing --QUESTION: Is this case --QUESTION: Suppose you have a continuingviolation, a hostile environment, made up of many minoracts. MS. PRICE: Yes, sir. QUESTION: And it goes on for many, many years. And the -- the injured individual finally goes to theEEOC after a very long time. In your opinion, can he th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC recover damages then back for the entire years or years, or is there some cutoff point behind which youwon't get the damages? MS. PRICE: The ability to recover damages inthat circumstances depends on a number of factors. Firstwould be the plaintiff's ability to establish that it isin fact a continuing violation that --QUESTION: Well, he does. Let's assume he does.MS. PRICE: Then his ability would be affectedby this Court's decisions in both Faragher and BurlingtonIndustries where this Court said that if there's notangible employment action and the employer can show thatit has taken appropriate steps to prevent or remedydiscrimination, and the plaintiff --QUESTION: No, they didn't. MS. PRICE: Okay. (Laughter.) MS. PRICE: Well, if they can't show that thevictim unreasonably failed to take advantage of whateverremedies or opportunities were -- were not available orshould have been available, then yes, the plaintiffwould --QUESTION: I just wonder. You see, if at somepoint we might say, well, he should have gone to the EEOC. It was unreasonable of him not to. I wouldn't say he had th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC to do it immediately, but after many years? And -- and dowe want to give him damages all the way back? MS. PRICE: The damages question again is aseparate question from liability. The damages are goingto be limited by (g) which provides a -year cap onback pay and by the caps that Congress has enacted forcompensatory damages. For instance, if -- if his employerwas, you know, within that $, range, he's only goingto get $,.QUESTION: But would you --QUESTION: Why is it that if there's acontinuing violation, say, for days and you file onthe th day, that you can go back for the first days? Why? MS. PRICE: Because the statute must have theability to reach practices. Where you have a longstandingpattern or practice of retaliation or discrimination, thisstatute in particular is designed to get at that.QUESTION: It does reach it. The only questionis, you know, how many damages you get, whether you -- youhave to be prompt and bring your action soon enough to putan end to it. I mean, it's not a question of whether youcan reach the pattern or practice. You certainly can.MS. PRICE: Well, but if you limit the periodfor which you can reach it to only days, you're th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC essentially immunizing the employer who has engaged in alongstanding --QUESTION: No, you're not. You're -- you'retelling the person who's been harmed, you know, if you'reharmed, take action right away --MS. PRICE: Well --QUESTION: -- which is the whole purpose ofstatutes of limitations. MS. PRICE: You're telling the person not simplyto take action, Justice Scalia, but to take action that itmay in fact result in greater retaliation or a loss ofemployment. You're not telling them simply to go to theemployer --QUESTION: Well, but that's -- but that's alwaystrue. QUESTION: Retaliation is a separate claim.QUESTION: I -- I thought your answer might bethat it's difficult to know that there's a pervasiveenvironment until you look at a whole context of acts. I'm not sure that would be a conclusive -- but at leastthat's a reason. But when you say, well, it's necessaryin order to enforce the act, that -- that just begs thequestion. MS. PRICE: Well, I think that there are caseswhere it's difficult to know. There are also cases where th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC people --QUESTION: All right. That's one reason.Suppose -- suppose that we play with thehypothetical and we establish that it wasn't difficult toknow. Is there any other reason for allowing us -- forrequiring the courts to go back? MS. PRICE: It's not that -- well, it's becauseit's fundamentally a continuing violation of the statute,and the statute itself allows for you to deal withpractices. Number two, you have the (g) statute whichallows the court to -- or allows a -- entitles a victim ofdiscrimination to recover damages for a -year period, forback pay. QUESTION: And you say that for compensatorydamages you rely on the lid in dollar amount.MS. PRICE: Yes. QUESTION: For back pay time. But I take ityour argument would be no different if there were noceiling on the amount you could get for compensatory orpunitive damages.MS. PRICE: That is correct, and the reason whyis because Congress looked at this problem. They lookedat this problem in . They looked at the problem againin . Congress did not set an anterior limit on th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC liability under title VII, and where Congress has notacted to do that, it is not appropriate for the Court toset that limit. QUESTION: Ms. Price, I don't understand therationale for treating continuing violations differentlyin so far as how far you can go back to get damages. Ican understand why you should treat them differently forpurposes of determining whether you can bring suit at all. That is, if it's a continuing violation, the mere factthat you didn't bring suit within days after theviolation started doesn't matter. You can -- you canbring suit at any point during the continuing violation. But it's a separate question whether, once you do bringsuit, you can get damages all the way back to thebeginning of it or rather damages just back days. Isee no -- no reason conceptually why you should have --you should be able to go all the way back. Take a failure to promote, which we discussedbefore, which you say is a one-shot violation, not acontinuing violation. Okay? MS. PRICE: Yes, Your Honor. QUESTION: You -- you can't bring suit for thatif you don't sue within days.Suppose it's not a failure to promote. It issimply a failure to pay the salary that this person in -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC in the job the person has is entitled to, and that's acontinuing violation. MS. PRICE: Yes. QUESTION: It continues on and on. And you'resaying that even though that's been continuing on and onfor years and the -- the employee doesn't take anyaction, he can go all the way back for the whole yearsinstead of just back for the last days -- last days. I -- I don't see conceptually why that ought to bethe case. MS. PRICE: (g) determines how far one can gofor back damages. If the concern is one with respect toliability, the difference -- conceptually there may not bea difference. But in fact in the -- in Bazemore, thisCourt addressed that particular scenario, and in thatparticular scenario, the Court said every time the personreceives a -- a check that's less, then that constitutes aviolation. I mean, it's conceivable under your -- underthe Court's hypothetical that the employee could file acharge for each one of those paychecks, and I think thatthat sort of turns Congress' --QUESTION: You're saying it's not a continuingviolation.MS. PRICE: Right. I mean, and that -- thatupsets I believe what Congress really intended to do. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC That would essentially eliminate the caps entirely.And we have that potential problem in this case. If you look at this case as a series of discrete acts, yourequire Mr. Morgan to file a charge every time he'scharged with a rule L violation or every time theythreaten to charge him or every time they suggest that heshouldn't have been -- that he was minutes late forwork. Those kinds of things in and of themselves shouldnot become the basis for title VII charges. You have to allow for the circumstance where theemployee is in fact being subjected to a -- a persistentand a continuing pattern of discrimination that becomesactionable within the -day or the -day charge-filingperiod. QUESTION: Well, should we look to what areasonable person should be expected to recognize as acause of action?MS. PRICE: No. I think no, Justice O'Connor.QUESTION: There shouldn't be any objective testelement in it? MS. PRICE: I think that it's appropriate tolook at this continuing violation circumstance in the sameway in which the Court has looked at the hostileenvironment claim. And in the hostile environment claim,the Court has imposed both an objective test and a th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC subjective test to determine whether or not there is ahostile environment. That's in the definition of thecause of action. In this case, the definition of the cause ofaction is already found within title VII. Title VIIdefines what practices violate the act. With respect to the timing, title VII doesn'tsay -- there's nowhere in title VII where it says that you-- the charge-filing is triggered where the person knowsor should have known. There is no notice requirement intitle VII. Title VII ties the requirement that you file acharge from the last date -- the last occurrence of theunlawful practice. That's what the statute says, and Ithink that's what the Court has to impose on employers. That is the certainty that employers are entitled to. It's in the language. QUESTION: But it's not certain because if it isa truly continuing violation -- every promotion, every --every training I ask for is going to be denied -- it willnever end. It's going on. At some point there's going tobe a suit. So, the last act is just the last act thathappens before the employee decided to bring the suit. The very nature of the continuing thing, it's going to goon. Hopefully the -- the charge will stop it. But it's-- the last act is the one that the complainant would th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC pick. Right? MS. PRICE: Yes, Your Honor. QUESTION: I think your basic position is thesefiling periods are like a statute of limitations in somerespects but not in other respects.MS. PRICE: This is true, and I believe that'swhy there is that language in Zipes. It is true thatthere have been times when it's been referred to as -- asa statute of limitations, but in Zipes where the Courtlooked at it and when you look at the actual purpose of itin Occidental Life Insurance Company v. EEOC, again theCourt looked at the purpose of the charge-filingrequirement is not to determine liability. It's to startthe administrative process. That's really all it does.There's other statutes of limitations or thingsthat are like a statute of limitations. You have the -day period in which one has to bring a lawsuit after youreceive the right to sue. That again is anotherlimitations period.QUESTION: Or the days that you have ifyou're a Government employee to start consulting in yourown house. MS. PRICE: Exactly. This is not yourtraditional statute of limitations that defines the periodof time for which liability may be imposed. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: One of -- one of the peculiarities isthe difference between -day and which makes verygood sense as far as administrative exhaustion isconcerned. MS. PRICE: Yes. QUESTION: But as -- why should the person who'sin a deferral state get days while the person who'snot get only days if we're talking about a statute oflimitations as measuring the ripeness or staleness of aclaim? MS. PRICE: Yes, that is true. Congressunderstood that this statute could be utilized with changedepending on where one lived, depending on what sector ofthe employment arena one is found in. So, it's notappropriate to rely upon this particular statute asdetermining the period of liability. You must look to(g) and you must look to the caps where Congressspecifically tried to address the concerns of employers.Viewing this case solely as a -- as a series ofdiscrete acts ignores the fundamental problem that Mr.Morgan faced at Amtrak. Mr. Morgan thought that the --the practices the he was being subjected to were onlybeing perpetuated by a few managers. What he discovered,when he complained -- and you must acknowledge that he didcomplain. This is not a situation where the person sat on th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC his rights, as Amtrak would portray him. Mr. Morgan didcomplain, and then he discovered that Amtrak absolutelyrefused to address those practices that were going on inthe Oakland yard. QUESTION: But if -- he complained in October to the EEOC, didn't he? And if he discovered thenwhat was going on, shouldn't the statute at least havestarted running then? MS. PRICE: Well, there's no indication that hediscovered -- he knew that there were racist practicesgoing on at the yard. He complained to CongresswomanBarbara Boxer and he complained to the EEOC with theanticipation that there would be some action taken. Infact, in Inspector Wiederholt did come out at theinsistence of Congresswoman Boxer and looked at thatsituation. But that was a process that took over months. Subsequently when he did complain again in ,Amtrak took months to investigate. To require him to --to go to EEOC within a -month or a -month windowessentially negates his ability --QUESTION: But he did go to EEOC.MS. PRICE: He went to EEOC, yes, when theyindicated that they intended to fire him, and that wouldresult in the absolute termination of his relationship th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC with Amtrak. QUESTION: There's some confusion in the -- youare referring not to the EEOC charge that didn't come totill the end of the line, but the EEO charges that hefiled in-house. MS. PRICE: Yes. QUESTION: And that's what you're saying he didearlier. MS. PRICE: Yes. Yes, throughout that process. Yes, Mr. Chief Justice, he went to Amtrak's EEO. He filedeight separate charges with them, and they onlyresponded --QUESTION: When -- when was the first time hefiled a complaint with the EEOC?MS. PRICE: It was in February of .QUESTION: You know, days is -- it's almosta year. The same thing happens in -- in statutes of -- oflimitations, some of which are years, some of which areas short as year. The -- the person who's thinking ofbringing a lawsuit is put to the choice of eithernegotiating with the person and trying to work it out, butat some point, if he knows there's a -year statute oflimitations, he's just going to have to say, I'm sorry,I'm going to go ahead. And I don't know how this -day period is any th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC different from that. It's fine to say you should be ableto, you know, waltz around and talk to the employer andtalk to, you know, Barbara Boxer or whatever else, but atsome point the -- the curtain comes down and you knowthat's days. That's the standard operation of astatute of limitations. MS. PRICE: In this case, Mr. -- Justice Scalia,the -- as I pointed out, the -- the statute of limitationsoperates somewhat differently. It's like a statute oflimitations. More to the point, however, in this case, as inthe cases that are addressed by title VII, you're talkingabout an employment relationship, an ongoing relationshipwhere the evidence that is -- we've presented in ouramicus briefs is that the person wants to maintain theiremployment, and there is a very real fear that if you gooutside the scope of your employment to an outside agency,that's going to tear apart the employment relationship. That -- that is essentially crossing the river, and youcan't go back from that. And so, it's very important toallow people an opportunity, and that's the -- the focusof the statute was to allow the EEOC not to come in andfile a lawsuit, but to come in and conciliate, to try toresolve the problem without the necessity of a lawsuit.So, you don't want to adopt a strict th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC interpretation or a hard and fast rule that says you'vegot to file a lawsuit or you've got to start this processwithin months. That is not -- that doesn't give theemployer nor the employee an opportunity to try to resolvematters internally. QUESTION: For some it's days, for some it's. How many States are so-called deferral States wherepeople would get the benefit of the days rather thanthe ? MS. PRICE: I regret, Justice Ginsburg, I'm not-- I don't know how many.QUESTION: Because that would be a very oddstatute of limitations to say, depending on your -- theState that you're in, you get days or days.MS. PRICE: This is true. And again, it'sinterpreted. It has to be interpreted because it appliesin other areas of the law, and it does define -- it reallydefines the point at which you have to try to get anoutside agency to come in. It doesn't define the point atwhich you have to sue, and it doesn't define the pointthat limits your damages. That is what is critical. Congress has defined the -- the point of damages. Congress has not defined the point of liability. QUESTION: But Mr. Englert said that thelimitation, the -year limitation -- that's because th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Congress was reacting to a time when there was nolimitation and there were fears that you'd have to go allthe way back to . So, they set years. If they hadunderstood properly what was going to be the effect of days, which wasn't determined till much later, then theywould have realized that there was -- they fixed somethingthat -- where there was nothing broken. MS. PRICE: Congress had an opportunity. Theproblem with Mr. Englert's view of it is that Congress hadanother opportunity after this Court's decision in Zipesin , and Congress did not change either (g) and itdidn't change (e). It did address the very concern that employerswere raising, that we're going to be subjected tounlimited damages where you -- if you allow compensatorydamages, and Congress put in the caps. Congress addressedthis problem in a different way by putting in temporal --excuse me -- nontemporal limits, by putting in a monetarylimit. Congress could have put in a temporal limit, andit did not. It could have taken out (g), and it did not. So, to suggest that that section is -- is a superfluoussection that only addresses some long past effect of titleVII or a doctrine that is no longer a part of title VII isinaccurate. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: Well, (g) would still apply to acontinuing violation, wouldn't it? I mean, if there's acontinuing violation, you think it wouldn't apply to thatat all. Maybe not. You don't think (g) has anyapplication under -- under the petitioner's theory. MS. PRICE: Not under the petitioner's theory,no. I think that they're reading (g) out of thestatute, which this Court should not do. Ultimately inhostile environment cases, the sexual harassment victim --if you impose this requirement, the sexual harassmentvictim, in particular, runs the risk of being -- of filingeither too early or filing too late. Again, in Love v. Pullman, this Court recognizedthat this process is one that is initiated and utilized bylay persons unassisted by trained lawyers. You should notimpose a requirement upon a lay person to determine, oh,now -- when this continuing violation doctrine is going tostart and when my damages are going to start accruing. And therefore, now I must file with the EEOC. They are --the last act which is what Congress contemplated is whathas to be the trigger for the statute.QUESTION: But you recognize that you can't turnevery discrete act into a continuing violation. I mean,it must be used. You have conceded that the one-timething -- you're not getting this promotion, you're th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC discharged.How does one tell -- and here -- here there wereseveral similar acts -- whether it's a discrete violationon the one hand or whether it's a continuing violation?MS. PRICE: I think that the courts have not --have been able to determine where there's a discrete act,and there's nothing happens. And this is really wherethis Court has set the outer limit. The -- it requires apresent violation. It is sometimes difficult to determinewhat's a discrete act and what is a part of a pattern.QUESTION: Thank you, Ms. Price. Mr. Englert, you have minutes remaining. REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF ROY T. ENGLERT, JR.ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERMR. ENGLERT: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice.Justice O'Connor, in one of her questions forMs. Price, referred to the very lopsided split in thecircuits, and I agree that there's a very lopsided splitcontrary to the Ninth Circuit's view. Only one of thosemany circuit cases that I'm aware of -- at least therecent circuit cases -- actually discusses the (g)issue that's taken up much of the argument time today, andthat is the First Circuit's opinion in Sabree, whichactually comes out squarely where we come out in thiscase, that in general damages are cut off at days. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC There is an exception, the details of which it's probablybetter not to spend any more time on. But we agree withthe Sabree result. Under no circumstances does our view rendersection (g) superfluous. I do think it's something ofan anachronism enacted to deal with problems that wentaway, but under no circumstances is it superfluous. Incases of equitable tolling, in government suits againstmunicipalities under section where there is no statuteof limitations, in the kinds of hostile environment caseswe were discussing earlier, the -year back pay cap canhave effect. Let me mention very briefly, although not muchtime was spent on it earlier, the Havens case was decidedunder a different statute. In the Lorance case, theSolicitor General urged the Court to follow Havens. TheCourt said no. The Court didn't address Havens in itsopinion. It said -- but it said -- did say in its opinionthe more relevant precedents are the NLRA precedents,which squarely support the position we're taking heretoday.Because --QUESTION: What's the difference between yourposition and the Government's? MR. ENGLERT: Very little, if any, Your Honor. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC I think they might concede less than I was concedingearlier, but other than that, I think there's very littledifference. And the Government, quite importantly, in itsbrief says what the continuing violation doctrine is, andwhat the continuing violation doctrine is in all otherareas of law besides title VII is essentially what some ofJustice Scalia's questions were suggesting, which isyou're not out of court entirely just because you didn'tbring suit within days of the first incident or years in the case of the Clayton Act. You do get to bringsuit, but you only get damages reaching back to thelimitations period.Let me mention very quickly. Amtrak did winthis case at trial. So, I don't want the Court to havethe impression that it's conceded that there was racialdiscrimination going on, but I'll leave it at that.And finally, just a detail. States and theDistrict of Columbia more or less are deferral States. That's the figure the Government has given me, and I'm --I'm certain it's more than States are deferral States.QUESTION: Could you explain the logic instatute of limitations terms between giving some people and others ? MR. ENGLERT: The only logic is that that's what th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Congress said. If it's a single incident case and youfile on the st day, you're out of court if you're notin a deferral State. CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: Thank you, Mr.Englert. The case is submitted. (Whereupon, at : p.m., the case in theabove-entitled matter was submitted.) th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC 