 IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XKANSAS, Petitioner ::v. : No. -MICHAEL T. CRANE. :- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XCourtroom Constitution Avenue, N.W.Washington, D.C.Tuesday, October , The above-entitled matter came on for oralargument before the Supreme Court of the United States at: a.m.APPEARANCES:CARLA J. STOVALL, ESQ., Kansas Attorney General; Topeka,Kansas; on behalf of the Petitioner.JOHN C. DONHAM, ESQ., Olathe, Kansas; on behalf of theRespondent. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC C O N T E N T SORAL ARGUMENT OF CARLA J. STOVALL, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioner JOHN C. DONHAM, ESQ.On behalf of the Respondent PAGE th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC P R O C E E D I N G S(: a.m.)CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: We'll hear argumentnext in No. -, Kansas v. Michael Crane.General Stovall. ORAL ARGUMENT OF CARLA J. STOVALLON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERMS. STOVALL: Mr. Chief Justice, thank you, andmay it please the Court:The Kansas Supreme Court has erroneously readthis Court's decision in Kansas v. Hendricks as requiringa showing that a potentially sexually violent predatorcannot control his behavior and that such a requirementhas supplemented the two requisites for civil commitmentthat this Court has approved in and since the Addingtoncase. Those two requirements, as you know, are mentalillness and dangerousness. The volitional impairment that the KansasSupreme Court has ruled was constitutionally required forcivil commitment ignores the fact that psychologicaldisorders, such as antisocial personality, can impair anindividual in behavior, cognitive, perceptual, emotional,and even intellectual capacities. This Court has never indicated that there'sanything constitutionally significant about a volitional th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC impairment. QUESTION: There was a good deal of reference inour Hendricks opinion to the -- to the apparent fact thatthe person there had what was volitionally impaired. You're saying that was descriptive rather than essentialto the holding? MS. STOVALL: I'm saying it was descriptive. Mr. Hendricks had apparently, and according to himselfonly, an inability to control his own behavior. So, whenthe majority wrote about Mr. Hendricks, they used thatkind of a description. QUESTION: Well, but we also relied on priorauthority that made some reference to lack of control. I don't think that what was done by the court below wastotally off the wall in light of what was said in ourprior cases. What if there is some element but perhapsnot to that extent? How would you draw the line?MS. STOVALL: Well, if this Court says thatthere needs to be some volitional impairment displayed, wewould suggest that it just be merely some impairment. Tohave a total impairment is something that thepsychiatrists will even tell us is an impossible standardto show. QUESTION: You think that's the standard adoptedin the court below that we're reviewing? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MS. STOVALL: I do. QUESTION: Total impairment? MS. STOVALL: I do. QUESTION: Do you acknowledge that lack ofability to control one's unlawful conduct and volitionalimpairment are one and the same thing? MS. STOVALL: No, I do not. QUESTION: Suppose I'm delusional and -- and Ithink that -- that people I see are Satan. I'm fully ableto control myself and -- and do not attack people who arenot Satan, but I think that some people are Satan. MS. STOVALL: Your Honor, that's --QUESTION: Do you call that a lack of volitionalcontrol or delusion? MS. STOVALL: I would consider that delusionaland not a -- a lack of volitional control. And theproblem with the Kansas Supreme Court's decision is thatit says the only thing that we consider is volitionalimpairment, but there are many kinds of impairmentsindividuals have that are the result of their mentaldisorder, and so the Kansas court is necessarily limitingthe psychiatric diagnosis to say only volitionalimpairment --QUESTION: What is there -- I thought therecould be cognitive impairments. I think Justice Scalia th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC has described one. There could be emotional impairments.MS. STOVALL: Yes, sir. QUESTION: And there could be volitionalimpairments. Now, is there any other category? MS. STOVALL: Perceptual, intellectual. There-- there are many kinds that are talked about within thepsychiatric material. QUESTION: But are these --QUESTION: Is there any kind relevant here otherthan volition?MS. STOVALL: Yes. I think they all are, all ofthose that we mentioned, and perhaps even those --QUESTION: Are relevant in this case? MS. STOVALL: Not -- yes.QUESTION: I'm saying is there any one relevantto the particular individual at issue here other thanvolition.MS. STOVALL: I don't believe psychiatrists cantell us what it is that -- what kind of impairment Mr.Crane has. They're not -- the -- the literature will saythat psychiatrists can't tell whether or not JusticeScalia was acting because he's hallucinating or becauseit's some other volitional impairment, if it's anirresistible impulse, if you will, whether it's emotional,perceptual, intellectual. They can't tell. They can't th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC get in somebody's mind. And what they have to do then issimply rely on what the individual says. Mr. Crane told this -- the court below -- hetold the experts below, rather. He didn't testify. Hetold the experts below that he could control his behavior. Mr. Hendricks had testimony that you refer to in theHendricks decision that said he couldn't control hisbehavior. So, because the psychiatrist can't make adetermination objectively, we're left with a potentialpredator telling us who applies -- who's eligible for thislaw and who isn't. The other point I would make to this Court isthat Mr. Hendricks said I can't control my urge to molestchildren. But he could. He never molested littlechildren in front of their parents, never in front of hiswife, never in front of law enforcement --QUESTION: Well, but that's not the premise thatHendricks proceeded upon. Now you're -- now you're sayingthat Hendricks rested on an insecure factual assumption.MS. STOVALL: I'm sorry, Your Honor. I don'tunderstand. QUESTION: Well, you're -- are you trying to saythat what we said in Hendricks was -- was dictum or --MS. STOVALL: I --QUESTION: -- just was -- was wrong in the -- in th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC the context of that case? MS. STOVALL: I'm certainly not saying you werewrong, Your Honor. I'm saying that you did not create athird constitutional standard, that the impairments thatI --QUESTION: Well, was the Court under somemisimpression as -- as to Hendricks' ability to controlhimself? MS. STOVALL: There wasn't evidence before thisCourt that would say whether or not Hendricks sufferedfrom a volitional impairment or not. All we have is whathe himself said. QUESTION: But then, it seems to me, that we'reback to square one. I -- one reading of Hendricks -- andtell me if this is wrong -- is that we want to find somemeasure of determining how dangerous this person is tosociety because that's in the statute. And because manycriminals are -- have personality disorders and aredangerous to society, we want to narrow it somewhat. So,we -- so the Court added this volitional control aspect.Is that a fair reading of Hendricks?MS. STOVALL: Your Honor, I don't believe it isbecause Mr. Hendricks, in particular, didn't suffer from apersonality disorder. He had what is classified under theKansas statute as an abnormality mentally and that was th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC being pedophilia. The Kansas statute specifically saysthere are two kinds of impairment that we could look at. They're emotional as well as volitional. QUESTION: Well, is the test -- are theredifferent requirements if you proceed based on apersonality disorder than if you proceed from a mentalabnormality? MS. STOVALL: Well, the Kansas court seems tothink there is because there is no definition in thestatute of a personality disorder. It wasn't defined --QUESTION: Well, I was -- I was suggesting thatyou thought there was based on the answer you gave to me.MS. STOVALL: No, Your Honor. What --QUESTION: You think they're both one and thesame. You have no different requirements for mentalabnormality or personality disorder. In -- in eithercase, the test for civil commitment is the same.MS. STOVALL: Based on the Kansas Supreme Courtdecision or based on the --QUESTION: Based on what you think the law oughtto be and what the -- and how the statute is properlyinterpreted. MS. STOVALL: We believe there is nodistinction. There should be no distinction betweenmental abnormality and personality disorder, that as long th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC as we -- we show that mental condition and thedangerousness, that there should not be a distinction.QUESTION: So, anybody with a personalitydisorder that's a danger to himself or others can be --can be civilly committed regardless of volitional control. That's -- that's your position. MS. STOVALL: Right. They have to have somesort of impairment in order to have the diagnosis of apersonality disorder. That's part and parcel of adiagnosis of the DSM. But it would be our position it'snot limited to volitional control, but could be thatlaundry list of emotional capacity -- emotionalimpairment, which is even what the Kansas statutecontemplates for mental --QUESTION: -- the DSM that you're mentioning, ifyou look at the definition of personality disorder andthey say pick three out of a list of seven, you could pickout habitually doesn't work, doesn't pay debts, isreckless, irritable. That's something -- I mean, it'sconsiderably less than what is defined as an abnormalitylike pedophilia. There are a lot of ordinary people whowould fit that description. MS. STOVALL: What -- what I want to be able todo today, Your Honors, is to convince you that actuallythat's not true, that an antisocial personality disorder th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC is a severe mental pathology that really does give ussociopaths and psychopaths that cannot conform to ourrules. There are a lot of individuals in this country andcertainly in our prisons that break the law, and they maysuffer from antisocial personality traits, but that'sentirely separate and distinct from having a full-blowndiagnosis of an antisocial personality disorder.QUESTION: Well, your statute itself, whenyou're talking about a sexually violent predator, you saymental abnormality or personality disorder, which makesthe person likely to engage in repeat acts of sexualviolence. So, that certainly qualifies the personalitydisorder. It's not any personality disorder that would dothat. MS. STOVALL: That's exactly right, Your Honor. The point is that it's a severe diagnosis, for one thing,and then secondly, it has to tie directly to the kind ofdangerous behavior that we believe these individuals willcommit if they don't have the treatment. QUESTION: And I take it what your -- what yourstatute is trying to get at is -- is something more thanmere repetitive conduct, mere recidivism. Is that fair tosay? MS. STOVALL: Absolutely. QUESTION: And -- and is the element that th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC distinguishes this kind of behavior from mererepetitiveness some element of lack of control, notnecessarily volitional control, but some element of lackof control, perhaps lack of control resulting fromdelusion, perceptual difficulties and so on, but -- butsome -- some aspect of the personality that -- that givesthat individual a -- a lesser chance of controllingbehavior in -- in a way that avoids committing crimes. Isthat fair to say? MS. STOVALL: With a slight exception. It's thedangerousness, the risk of recidivism tied to a mentaldisorder. To get the diagnosis of a mental disorder,there will be an impairment that's part and parcel ofthat.QUESTION: Right. MS. STOVALL: But I want to be clear that wedon't think there needs to be a -- a third separate, verydistinguishable constitutional element --QUESTION: I guess what I'm -- I guess what I'mgetting at is it -- it seems sensible to call somebody whois just an habitual offender at some dangerous crime orserious crime dangerous. And I take it that what theKansas statute and other statutes like it is trying to getat, by speaking of mental disorder or personalitydisorder, is some extra element beyond the mere th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC probability of doing an act which society has calleddangerous. And I think -- I think --MS. STOVALL: That's percent accurate.That's exactly where we are, Your Honor. And we thinkthat having that mental abnormality or mental disordergets us away from just predicting who's going to bedangerous. QUESTION: But what is that -- what is that? That's exactly the issue. What is it that you -- how --what form of words will you use to define what counts as amental disorder that will distinguish the people whom youwant to civilly commit from your mine-run recidivistcriminal? MS. STOVALL: That they have to have a mental --QUESTION: Yes, but what -- that's the problemin the case. The problem is what counts as a mentaldisorder. And the Kansas court thought what counts as amental disorder is a total inability to control behavior.MS. STOVALL: That's correct. QUESTION: You say that's not the rightdefinition. Very well. What is? MS. STOVALL: What is in the statute, a severemental --QUESTION: No, no. What is the definition ofthe word, mental disorder, that appears in the statute? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC If a person were to say every person who commits a crime, times running, is a sociopath and thereby falls withinDSM-IV, you're not going to permit that. You want todistinguish that sociopath from a person who is reallymentally disordered and he isn't your mine-run criminal. All right. Give me the form of words that will do it. MS. STOVALL: I believe they are there now,that --disorder.QUESTION: All that's there now is mentalMS. STOVALL: Well, actually it's mentalabnormality and personality disorder. You and this Courtin the Hendricks decision said that pedophilia certainlyqualifies as a --QUESTION: Well, and here we have -- we havehere an antisocial personality disorder. That -- that wasthe diagnosis. MS. STOVALL: That's right. Along withexhibitionism. QUESTION: And the State's own expert said inMr. Crane's trial that approximately percent of theprison population has antisocial personality disorder.Now, this is an unusual statute where after theperson serves a sentence for the crime, the State can thenproceed again and get them locked up for a very long time th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC because of his dangerousness.MS. STOVALL: And the mental disorder. QUESTION: We're trying -- okay. But most ofthem -- percent of them was the testimony -- sufferfrom antisocial personality disorder. So, is the Stategoing to be able to proceed again against percent ofthe prison population? What is the added element beyondan antisocial personality disorder? MS. STOVALL: I would suggest to you that theredoesn't need to be an additional element. While Iacknowledge the expert said percent suffers from thatin the deposition, he wasn't -- he certainly didn't quoteempirical studies to demonstrate that. I would suggestthat probably - percent of the prison populationsuffer from antisocial personality traits, but that'sdifferent than a disorder. The antisocial personality disorder, psychopathsand sexual -- psychopaths and sociopaths with actualdiagnosis -- and Ted Bundy is the best example of that. These are really serious individuals not percent of thepopulation. QUESTION: What is it -- what is it about themthat we can isolate that shows that they are reallyserious beyond the mere repetition of their crime? In other words, let me put the question this th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC way. Under -- under the rule you want us to adopt inwhich, as you put it, there is no third element, whyaren't you free to go after, let's say, every secondoffender of a sexual crime at the time of release and say,this person is dangerous within -- sufficiently dangerouswithin the meaning of the statute to -- to commit here?Now, you're not claiming you can do that, but Iwant to know what it is that you have to prove that standsin the way of your being able to do that. MS. STOVALL: We have to show a mental illness.QUESTION: And -- and --MS. STOVALL: And that's a psychiatricallyapproved condition that --QUESTION: No, but --MS. STOVALL: -- you can get an expert --QUESTION: -- anything in the DSM.MS. STOVALL: Right. QUESTION: Then you're --MS. STOVALL: I'm sorry. Not anything in theDSM. QUESTION: Then you're back to JusticeGinsburg's question, which -- which is very much likeJustice O'Connor's. If all you've got to do is satisfyone criterion in the DSM, you're going to pick up, inJustice O'Connor's reference to the experts, percent th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC probably of your prison population and -- and based on the-- the categorization Justice Ginsburg described, it wouldseem to me you would pickup a substantial part of thepopulation outside of prison. Now, I know you don't want to do that, but onyour theory that there is -- there is no third elementbeyond this categorization, what stands in the way of yourdoing that? MS. STOVALL: The actual diagnosis that thosefolks actually have those diagnosis and are sexuallyviolent. Being sexually violent absolutely limits that. What I would --QUESTION: All right. Are you saying then thatin the example Justice Ginsburg gave you -- what was it --four out of seven in the list? MS. STOVALL: Three of seven. QUESTION: That -- that as -- as long as -- asthe -- the expert witness says, yes, this person issubject to four out of those seven personality traits,that that person, if a sexual offender, could be locked upunder the statute? MS. STOVALL: They could be committed fortreatment under this -- this statute, yes, Your Honor.QUESTION: Wow. MS. STOVALL: And Mr. Crane -- what -- what I th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC would want you to know, though, is that it is not a --just because these individuals have committed crimesdoesn't mean they have an antisocial personality disorder. Of the seven criteria that are listed, that can certainlybe supplemented by independent judgment of psychiatrists,of the --QUESTION: But it would be very -- it -- itwould be -- on Justice Ginsburg's example, it would bevery easy to prove. MS. STOVALL: It could be if they actually havethat diagnosis and have those personality traits and havedone that behavior. If I -- although it is not in the record, what Iwould like this Court to know is that out of ,individuals that have been screened in this process inKansas, a mere -- less than and a half percent haveactually been civilly committed. And we have --QUESTION: -- the prosecutor then, but I mean,that's not something that -- that we would generally do. I mean, if we thought of all prosecutors as being wise andkind and good, then there would be a whole lot of rightsthat we wouldn't have to worry about. MS. STOVALL: I understand. QUESTION: But Justice Kennedy brought up in --in Hendricks a concern, and this case seems to fit that. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC That is, this man entered a plea bargain. MS. STOVALL: I'm sorry? QUESTION: He entered a plea bargain. Right? And he got a relatively short time. And then, throughthis civil process, without beyond a reasonable doubt asthe standard, just a preponderance --QUESTION: No. There is a reasonable -- beyonda reasonable doubt, yes. MS. STOVALL: It is beyond a --QUESTION: But it is a civil proceeding.MS. STOVALL: It is but we have that higherstandard. QUESTION: May I --QUESTION: Still, you could -- you could get towhere you were or even beyond. You could get to the fullamount of time that the person could have been sentencedif there had been no plea bargain, and if you -- themaximum penalty because this is indefinite. Right? MS. STOVALL: It's indefinite with annualreviews, and they are allowed to be released when theyhave been determined safe to be at large. And while it isnot part of the record, I would want you to know that Mr.Crane is in transitional release now, after about yearsin this treatment program. QUESTION: What do the annual reviews -- what do th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC they deal with? Is it possible at -- at the end of anannual review for the person to be released? MS. STOVALL: Yes. Could go to the transitionalrelease phase and then the conditional release phase andthen ultimately to final discharge. The annual releaseensures -- the annual review, rather, ensures that they'renot warehoused, that they have an opportunity to come tothe court on an annual basis. QUESTION: What does the court have to find inorder to release them? It is no longer beyond areasonable doubt that --MS. STOVALL: Then it's -- the State has to show-- I'm sorry. The -- the respondent has to show probablecause that they have changed. The State, as a matter ofpolicy, never objects when there are psychiatrists saythey're safe to be in the next phase of the program or thenext. We've never objected to that. We have six that areactually out of the facility now and in eithertransitional and/or conditional release.QUESTION: And isn't it a frequent case, though,that the psychiatrists say, well, we can't tell until weclinically re-observe him and we can't clinically observehim until he's in a normal environment? I mean, canpsychiatrists --MS. STOVALL: It hasn't happened in the six so th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC far that -- that have -- have been released. QUESTION: The American Psychiatric Associationsays in their brief that the, quote, antisocialpersonality disorder, end quote, which is DSM-IV at -, applies to to percent among the male-sentencedpopulation. So, are you saying that to percent ofthe male-sentenced population could be committed for lifecivilly? Are you saying that DSM-IV is not the standard,or are you saying that the American PsychiatricAssociation is wrong when it tells us percent to percent fit within the DSM-IV definition? MS. STOVALL: In terms of the antisocialpersonality disorder alone, I don't know. What I wouldsay is that certainly to percent --QUESTION: All right. QUESTION: Did they say how they know? I -- I-- you know, I could --QUESTION: I -- I don't know if they know ornot. do.QUESTION: If -- if they stated --QUESTION: But I know they know better than IQUESTION: Did they say that to percentare beyond a reasonable doubt suffering from an antisocialpersonality disorder? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MS. STOVALL: I doubt that, and I doubt that --that it applies to --QUESTION: The reason -- the point of myquestion is, is DSM-IV the standard and if DSM-IV is notthe standard, what is? That's what I think all of us, orseveral of us anyway, are trying to get to. And it may beyou -- you cannot address that further, but if you could.MS. STOVALL: The DSM-IV absolutely is thestandard in the psychiatric profession, but it is not theBible and is not the only thing psychiatrists use. Theyvery much can supplement that with their own judgment, andin fact, that's part of the prefatory language in the DSM.QUESTION: May I ask you this question? And I'mconcerned about whether the instructions were adequate andwhether you think the instructions were adequate. And oneof the reasons I have the question is they do not seem, ontheir face, to require any finding of volitionalimpairment. And it seems to me we might look atvolitional impairment in three different ways, one thathas to be total inability to comply, some inability tocomply, or that it's totally irrelevant to the issue. Which of those three positions is yours? MS. STOVALL: The last, that it's irrelevant toa diagnosis. QUESTION: There's no need to show any th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC volitional impairment in order to obtain a commitmentunder this statute, so the instruction is correct. MS. STOVALL: That -- that is absolutely theState's position. QUESTION: And I think it's also unnecessary toshow any other kind of impairment in addition to the twoelements that you're describing. MS. STOVALL: In order to get a -- in terms ofthe instructions, that's true because to get a diagnosis,you have to have an impairment. You can't be diagnosedwith anything under DSM without having an impairment. So,it's part and parcel. QUESTION: -- the actual difficulty incontrolling, not -- not utter inability to controlconduct, but difficulty in controlling conduct. Don't youhave to show that? QUESTION: She said -- she didn't say that. MS. STOVALL: I don't believe we have to showthat.QUESTION: How could the person be dangerous --MS. STOVALL: Because they have this --QUESTION: -- by reason of the personalitydisorder if the personality disorder does not produce adifficulty in -- in controlling conduct? MS. STOVALL: In order to link together the -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: I must say, I thought -- I thoughtyou conceded that you have to show difficulty incontrolling conduct, and if you don't, this is a quitedifferent case from what I thought. MS. STOVALL: And I misspoke, Your Honor. The-- within the definition of the mental abnormality itself,we don't have to show lack of control, but the statutorylanguage then leads us into that you have this mentalabnormality or disorder that makes you likely or thatpredisposes you. So, there is the connection that we haveto show. QUESTION: Well, no --QUESTION: In other words --QUESTION: It predisposes you to do things youwant to do. QUESTION: Yes. QUESTION: So that, it seems to me, doesn'tanswer the question. MS. STOVALL: Our --QUESTION: Where is it in the statutory languagethat talks about volitional control? It doesn't. MS. STOVALL: The mental abnormality is definedin the statute and it does mention both volitional andemotional capacity --QUESTION: A personality disorder does not. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MS. STOVALL: It is not defined and I thinkthat's because it's such a common term, the legislaturedidn't define it. Mental abnormality was a very uniqueterm. So, I think they chose to define it, but theyinclude emotional as well as volitional impairments there. And if the Kansas Supreme Court is right, then you muststrike out emotional because we could prove it under thestatute by an emotional impairment that they say is notvalid. Only a volitional impairment is allowed. And --and so --QUESTION: But you say emotional is, and -- andI guess emotional impairment I suppose would describeevery sociopath in the country. I mean, I thought asociopath by definition was somebody who just didn't careabout society's standards. MS. STOVALL: That is absolutely one part --QUESTION: That would satisfy as an emotionalimpairment, wouldn't it?MS. STOVALL: It is an emotional impairment,yes, Your Honor. That's true. QUESTION: So --MS. STOVALL: But the Kansas court would saythat --QUESTION: -- in fact, we -- I think we get backto the point that on your theory any sociopath who has th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC committed a -- a sexual offense can be committed underthis statute upon release. MS. STOVALL: But it takes more than having thelikelihood of committing more sex crimes and/or not havingany empathy before you could be diagnosed with anantisocial personality disorder. And so, there --QUESTION: It would take -- it would take fourout of seven on Justice Ginsburg's list. MS. STOVALL: It takes three, actually three ofseven. But it does make a significant diagnosis. It is amental pathology. It isn't something that --QUESTION: Beyond a reasonable doubt. MS. STOVALL: Again, Your Honor, you're exactlyright. Beyond a reasonable doubt we have to be able to --QUESTION: If we take just those three thingsbeyond a reasonable doubt, that definition doesn't saytrait. It says antisocial personality disorder, andyou're familiar with this list. You could be a liar. Youcould be a malingerer and you could not pay your debts,and you'd make those three. MS. STOVALL: I would suggest to you that's partof the evaluative process of a psychologist then in sayingthis is someone who is likely to continue to be sexuallyviolent. If that's all they've done --QUESTION: The prosecutor says, DCM, this th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC category fits, antisocial personality disorder, any threeof -- and I just gave you three from the list. MS. STOVALL: Right, but that doesn't mean thatone of the experts would say that makes them fit underthis law to be sexually violent predators. They may havean antisocial personality disorder, but not that it makesthem likely to re-offend, not that the -- thepsychiatrists at Larned would suggest they need to becivilly committed. QUESTION: General Stovall, you have readHendricks, as all of us have. And -- and the part that'son substantive due process is not long. It's four pages,and in those four pages, there are six references topeople -- not Hendricks, but people who are unable tocontrol their behavior, confinement for those who areunable to control their dangerousness. Are you -- you'reessentially saying we should just read out that language. It was incautious. Is that what you're telling us? MS. STOVALL: I am because I don't believe thatwas central or necessary to the holding. What I believeis in the majority opinion, you were using that todescribe the mental abnormality, just to talk about --it's a substitute. On -- on page of the --QUESTION: The holding -- the holding was,indeed, described differently. It at one point said -- it th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC did mention volitional impairment, but it said thefollowing. The Kansas act is plainly of a kind -- theseother civil commit -- and statutes. It requires a findingof future dangerousness and then links that finding to theexistence of a mental abnormality or personality disorderthat makes it difficult, if not impossible for the personto control his dangerous behavior. That seems to me --MS. STOVALL: That's -- that's exactly --QUESTION: -- the crux of the holding of thecase and that portion does not say anything aboutvolitional impairment, just inability or difficulty incontrolling behavior. MS. STOVALL: And what I would suggest to you ison page of -- of the opinion, it becomes very clearthe way that that phrase and those phrases were beingused. This admitted lack of volitional control, coupledwith prediction of future dangerousness adequatelydistinguish Hendricks from other dangerous people who areperhaps more properly dealt with through the criminalproceedings. The way of saying admitted lack of volitionalcontrol is another way of simply talking about the mentalimpairment. Couple that with dangerousness, and then youget the two historic requirements of mental illness anddangerousness that you've always required. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: If -- if a jury instruction werecouched in the terms that Justice Scalia just quoted, asstating the holding in Hendricks, would you find that juryinstruction correct and satisfactory?MS. STOVALL: I would find it longer than itneeded to be and more inclusive than it needed to bebecause --QUESTION: Would it be -- would it beconstitutionally erroneous? Would you --MS. STOVALL: Yes. I -- I would say that it --that it would be --QUESTION: So, we --MS. STOVALL: -- because it goes beyond --QUESTION: That's the holding in Hendricks. We've got to pull back from Hendricks then in your view.MS. STOVALL: My view is that what you said inHendricks was mental illness that makes somebody dangerousin sexually violent ways. QUESTION: Yes. But if Justice Scalia'squotations correctly stated the holding in Hendricks, Ithink you are telling us we have got to draw back fromHendricks. MS. STOVALL: Again, what I'm saying, the mentalillness makes them likely to re-offend in sexually violentways. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: -- why you say we have -- you say wehave to draw back from that statement. What -- what inthat statement is wrong? MS. STOVALL: That -- that we have to -- that wehave to show the -- the difficulty of maintaining theirbehavior, of controlling their behavior. QUESTION: The statement said --MS. STOVALL: I don't have the exact --QUESTION: -- it requires a finding of futuredangerousness and links that finding to the existence of amental abnormality or personality disorder that makes itdifficult, if not impossible, for the person to controlhis dangerous behavior. What is wrong in that, other thanleaving out beyond a reasonable doubt, which your statutecontains? MS. STOVALL: Right. QUESTION: What is -- what is wrong in it?MS. STOVALL: Only that if -- if we have torequire the finding of that makes it difficult, if notimpossible, for them to control behavior. QUESTION: You're concerned that the lastsentence --QUESTION: -- that finding? How are they future-- wow. MS. STOVALL: It's -- it's because they're -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC they have a mental abnormality. They've committed thepast acts. They're likely to do it in the future. Theyhave this diagnosis. And so, it's part and parcel, andcommon sense would tell you that there's a link and abridge, but not that it's a separate statutory term thatneeds to be shown and certainly not a constitutional one.QUESTION: Thank you, General Stovall.We'll hear from you, Mr. Donham. ORAL ARGUMENT OF JOHN C. DONHAMON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTMR. DONHAM: Mr. Chief Justice, may it pleasethe Court:I think the major disagreement between the State-- the State's view of this and Mr. Crane's view is nothow dangerous is an individual, but why are theydangerous. The Kansas Sexual Predator Act was clearlywritten to limit the application to those who aredangerous on account of their mental illness.QUESTION: You have a nice speaking voice, butcould you raise it just a little bit? MR. DONHAM: I'm sorry, Judge. I'm sorry, YourHonor. Excuse me. Is that better? Okay. Mr. Crane sought a jury instruction at his trialthat was consistent with this Court's decision in th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Hendricks. There is or was known to Mr. Crane at thattime only three forms of a mental abnormality or a mentalillness that historically satisfied involuntary,indefinite civil commitments, and that was the inabilityto care for oneself, the absolution of criminalresponsibility or incompetency, and the inability toexercise self-control. Now, that term, inability to exercise self-control, is defined in the passage of volitional control,the ability to exercise choice and to make a decisionconcerning your behavior. QUESTION: You say it's defined. Where do wefind that definition, Mr. Donham? MR. DONHAM: Your Honor, in the Kansas statuteitself. It's -a. The definitional portion defineswhat a sexually violent predator is.QUESTION: Can you tell us where we find that in-- in the papers? QUESTION: It's the first page of the appendixto the petitioner's brief I think. MR. DONHAM: Your Honor, joint appendix --excuse me. Joint appendix, page . That would havebeen instruction number that was given to the jury. QUESTION: We're not talking about theinstruction. We're talking about the statute. What is th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC the statutory provision that's in question that -- thatmakes -- that requires -- you say this Kansas statuterequires a volitional impairment. Isn't that what yousaid? MR. DONHAM: No. I'm sorry. The -- it's --it's our opinion that the Kansas Sexually Violent PredatorAct must be limited to that narrow subgroup ofrecidivists, those individuals who cannot control theirbehavior.QUESTION: So that a recidivist who will be arecidivist because he's delusional and he thinks thatevery woman he meets is inviting crude sexual behavior --he's fully able to control himself if he doesn't thinkthat the woman is inviting crude sexual behavior, but hehappens to think that every woman he meets is invitinghim, and he would not be covered because that is not avolitional impairment. He cannot constitutionally becovered. MR. DONHAM: I agree with that, and -- and may I-- may I follow that up with perhaps -- the Kansas SexualPredator Act has a number of subsections, one of which isdirectly -- directly focused on the type of individual youjust mentioned in your hypothetical. QUESTION: Which one is that? Subsection.MR. DONHAM: Your Honor, in the definition of a th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC -- sorry. I'm sorry. I don't have that. It is theKansas statute on the sexually violent predator --QUESTION: Well, I have it here with a number. You referred to one subsection. I'm asking you whatsubsection that is. MR. DONHAM: Your Honor, it's in the statute. I don't believe it's in any of the briefs or in the jointappendix. But the Kansas Sexual Predator Act reaches thosewho have been absolved of criminal irresponsibility, thosefound --QUESTION: Well, but you're telling us now whatthe Kansas Sexual Predator Act does. Cite us to somesections. I don't -- we're not interested in some generalsummary. MR. DONHAM: Your Honor, I'm sorry. I don'thave the statute number at my fingertips. QUESTION: I thought your submission here wasnot that the act didn't cover your client, but you're --you're supporting the holding of the Kansas Supreme Courtthat the act does cover your client, but inasmuch as --insofar as it does, it's unconstitutional if it goesbeyond volitional impairment. Isn't -- isn't that whatthis case is about? MR. DONHAM: Your Honor, this -- the facts of th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC the Crane case dealt specifically with Mr. Crane and Mr.Crane alone. Prior to his criminal trial, he sought adefense of insanity, and that was ruled out by the State. That left him with only one feasible mental illness whichmight qualify him for commitment under the Sexual PredatorAct, as understood by Mr. Crane, following your decisionin Hendricks. And that was that he was unable to controlhis dangerous sexual behavior. QUESTION: Does not --QUESTION: Excuse me. Can I just -- I reallydon't know what we have before us here. I understood theissue before this Court to be the fact that the KansasSupreme Court held the Sexually Violent Predators Act,which we had just said in Hendricks was constitutional --the Kansas Supreme Court held it unconstitutional, yetagain, as applied to someone who, like your client, hasonly an emotional or personality disorder rather than avolitional disorder. Isn't that what the Kansas SupremeCourt opinion said? There has to be a volitional disorderor else it is unconstitutional to apply the Kansasstatute. MR. DONHAM: That's what the Kansas SupremeCourt said.QUESTION: All right. Now tell us why -- why itis constitutional to commit someone who -- who makes th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC sexual advances to women because of a volitionalimpairment, but not constitutional to commit someone whois delusional. He is just as dangerous. He is just asmentally impaired, and the only difference is he'sdelusional rather than cannot control his -- his will. Why is the one unconstitutional and the otherconstitutional? I don't understand it. MR. DONHAM: Your Honor, if -- if I have tofault the opinion in the -- of the Kansas Supreme Court is-- it is that it expanded its decision that was directlyfor Mr. Crane under the specific subsection of the KansasSexual Predator Act that dealt with individuals who hadbeen found criminally responsible. And it expanded thatand its terminology to give effect to all commitments.The -- the Sexual Predator Act is and should beavailable for individuals such as your hypothetical,individuals who, because of some psychosis orhallucinations, have in effect lost their ability tocontrol their behavior as well, although perhaps throughsome better recognized form. There is -- there arespecific subsections of the Kansas Sexual Predator Actthat would pull those people in for a commitmentproceeding even though they don't go forward -- forwardwith a trial or if they've been found not guilty by reasonof insanity. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Mr. Crane, however, was in that unique sectionof people who have -- who have been found legallyresponsible, who are competent to stand trial, who areimprisoned, and upon release this -- this new group ofindividuals that are now subject to involuntary commitmentfor some mental disorder this Court found that theappropriate level of -- of mental illness, if you will,for Mr. Hendricks was his professed inability to controlhis behavior, and that --QUESTION: You say we -- we found that. Irealize that the opinion refers to the fact that he wasunable to control his behavior. Are you saying that was-- that was the holding of the case? MR. DONHAM: Your Honor, as -- as I read --Hendricks stands for the proposition that the Kansas actis constitutional because, as with Mr. Hendricks, what itdetermined was that the State was not seeking toinvoluntarily commit people based on dangerousness alone,which would have been absolutely unconstitutional underFoucha v. Louisiana. It seized upon this additionalelement which separated and distinguished Mr. Hendricksfrom the larger class of just garden variety recidivists. It held that given that limiting factor --QUESTION: Which -- which limiting factor wasdifficulty or impossibility of controlling behavior. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Right? MR. DONHAM: The -- I think the exact languageof the Kansas statute, or at least of Mr. Hendricks -- I'msorry. The opinion of Mr. Hendricks was that he admittedthat he was unable to control his behavior. The only wayhe himself could be sure he would never offend again wasfor him to die. QUESTION: I just read -- I just read theportion of the -- of the opinion that I think the mostrelevant, and what it says is difficult, if notimpossible, to control behavior. To show utterimpossibility to control behavior would be very difficult. That's -- that's what it said. Now -- now, you equate that difficulty or if notimpossibility to control behavior with volitionalimpairment. Why do you -- why do you equate that, as Ithink the Kansas Supreme Court did? They -- they seemedto say that if there's no volitional impairment, therecannot be this difficulty or impossibility of controllingbehavior. But that doesn't seem to me to be true.MR. DONHAM: Well, when Mr. Hendricks professedthat he could not control his behavior, that's anindication that when confronted with temptation, he wasunable to exercise his free will. QUESTION: That's right. In Hendricks it th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC happened to be a volitional impairment. But why do youassert that that is the only reason for which one can saya person is unable to control his behavior? Why isn'tdelusion a reason why a person can't control his behavior? He doesn't know what he's confronted with. MR. DONHAM: Your Honor, I'm not trying to limitthe -- what a psychiatrist or a psychologist might be ableto say affects the ability of an individual to conform hisbehavior to society's requirements. I'm not standing heretoday as a psychiatrist or a psychologist. It's a murkysubject at best, and even those who work in it disagree. The principal distinction that I take from theHendricks decision is that Mr. Hendricks could not havebeen constitutionally involuntarily committed absent thatadditional element that set him apart from others whosimply behave out of clear choice because they lack anyrespect or moral value. QUESTION: Well, I would have thought, really,that that is not what we limited it to in Hendricks, thata delusional lack of control would be entirely sufficientconstitutionally as -- as it relates to a lack of control,that it could be volitional or delusional, that the Kansascourt went too far in requiring only volitional as aconstitutional standard.MR. DONHAM: Your Honor, I would agree with th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC that.QUESTION: Yes, so if you --QUESTION: You think the court erred. MR. DONHAM: I -- I agree with that and I hope Ihaven't misled the Court. I -- I've been acting on behalfof Mr. --QUESTION: So, you agree that the Kansas SupremeCourt went too far.MR. DONHAM: I agree that they perhaps imposedtoo strict a limit on these additional elements that haveto be found in order to involuntarily commit. QUESTION: But that there has to be someadditional elements. MR. DONHAM: Absolutely.QUESTION: And the most appropriate one at handin this case was volitional. Were there any otheradditional elements that might have been argued in yourcase? And if not, what are the additional elements thatmight -- we might encounter in cases somewhat like this?MR. DONHAM: Your Honor, to the first part ofyour question, the only available argument that we couldhave made, the only conceivable jury instruction thatwould have been consistent with the contradictory evidenceat trial and this Court's opinion in Hendricks was a -- ademand for a jury instruction, requiring the jury to find th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC that it was his mental abnormality or his personalitydisorder that made him be likely to re-offend because itinterfered with his ability to control his behavior.QUESTION: So, what are the words that you wantthere? That is, imagine I'm talking about the set ofpeople who are very dangerous. Imagine I'm talking aboutthe set of people who are very dangerous because of amental problem. In defining mental problem, we could haveone subset that has a cognitive disorder well beyond thenormal person, including the normal prisoner. We couldhave a set of people who have an emotional disorder wellbeyond what the ordinary prisoner recidivist has, and wecould be talking about what the Kansas Supreme Courtthought it was talking about in this case, the set ofpeople who arguably have a volitional disorder. Inrespect to that, it sounded to me, if that's the subjectof this case, that the Kansas court used the word cannotcontrol, whereas our Court used the word difficult, if notimpossible, to control. The only argument here being ifthere is some difference between those two, and I wouldthink there is. But how should we put that in your opinion? Would it satisfy you if we said this case is aboutvolitional disorders, and there the Constitution permitsus to take a dangerous person and commit him civilly if th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC his ability to control his behavior is significantly, alot, quite a lot less than the ordinary person, includingthe ordinary prisoner sentenced in a -- in a penitentiary? How do you want -- in other words, I'm looking for theproper standard. Cannot sounds too tough. Difficult, ifnot impossible, maybe that's all right. But that's causedconfusion. So, what's your standard?MR. DONHAM: Your Honor, I know the State hastouted the -- the descriptive adjective adequate control. I'm not sure if I know how to answer that. I would thinkthat if you perform the criminal act, your control was notadequate. And so, it would seem that what the medicalpersonnel are going to have to end up testifying and whateventually will be a question for the jury to decide iswhether or not, given the opportunity and the chance forsuccess at committing a criminal act, this individualchose to do that as an exercise of his or her free will orwhether or not some overriding mental condition compelledthem to act or disabled their capacity to refrain fromacting. QUESTION: I don't -- I really don't understandwhere we are now. You're -- you're objecting, as Iunderstand it now, just to the jury instruction. I mean,we didn't take this case to decide whether the juryinstruction was right under the statute or not. You don't th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC challenge the statute. You think the statute is fine. It's just a bad jury instruction that occurred?MR. DONHAM: Your Honor, as -- as I read the --the Kansas statute, the legislative body intended that themental defect caused the individual to be likely to commitfuture predatory acts of violence.QUESTION: No. It -- it says exactly that, andyou think that's okay.MR. DONHAM: Yes, and this Court --QUESTION: And the Kansas Supreme Court didn'tthink it was okay. MR. DONHAM: I disagree with that. I -- I think-- and allow me to follow up. This Court in Hendricksreinforced the notion that the Kansas act isconstitutional because there did exist, at least with Mr.Hendricks, an additional element that because of that,because of his mental illness, he was likely to offend.The State -- or the Kansas Supreme Court waspresented simply the fact pattern in Mr. Crane's case, and-- and that fact pattern was essentially -- or at leastthe State's position was we don't have to prove any kindof additional element whatsoever. QUESTION: Well, they have to prove thecausality. You're saying they don't have to provecausality. I mean, the way the statute reads is: who th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC suffers from a mental abnormality or personality disorderwhich makes the person likely to engage in repeat acts ofsexual violence. It's not just that he's likely to -- tocommit future acts of sexual violence, but it also must beshown that the reason he's likely to do it is because thatis caused by a mental abnormality or personality disorder. I mean, it seems to me, the statute says exactly what youthink it ought to say, and you're just -- you're nowcomplaining about the jury instruction? MR. DONHAM: We did object to the juryinstruction because we felt it did not adequately addressthe theme that the State carried to the jury. What theState presented to the jury, through all four of itsexpert witnesses, is that Mr. Crane satisfied thedefinition of a sexually violent predator because of hisprior repetitive history of criminal offenses. Their ownexpert, Dr. Mabugat, even testified on the stand that if-- that in satisfying this definition, if the jurors onlytake his current mental status, coupled with his instantoffense for the aggravated sexual battery, he's not asexually violent predator. Dr. Mabugat went on to testify --QUESTION: Well, just -- just a minute, Mr.Donham. The question presented by the State is -- in itspetition for certiorari is -- is a very general one, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC whether the Fourteenth Amendment requires the State toprove that -- and I think if you're going to bring up ajury instruction, you're required to cross petition forcertiorari and raise that yourself. You didn't do that,did you? MR. DONHAM: Yes, sir, I did. I -- I filed inmy response an objection to the --QUESTION: The Kansas Supreme Court held thejury instruction bad, did it not? MR. DONHAM: I'm sorry. I -- I -- on thepetition? question. QUESTION: Just answer Justice Stevens'MR. DONHAM: I'm sorry, Your Honor. On the --QUESTION: Is it not correct that the KansasSupreme Court held that the jury was not properlyinstructed? MR. DONHAM: That's correct. QUESTION: It was not properly instructed notbecause it was not instructed in accordance with theKansas statute, but because if it had been instructed inaccordance with the Kansas statute, that would have beenunconstitutional. Wasn't that the basis of the holding? And you're saying the Kansas statute is notunconstitutional. I mean, the whole basis for the Kansas th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Supreme Court thinking that the jury instruction, whichfollowed the statute, was unconstitutional was, of course,that the statute was unconstitutional. But it seems to me what you're saying here isthat the statute is okay. Didn't you say the statute isokay now? MR. DONHAM: What I said, Your Honor, is thatthe statute requires that an individual susceptible tobeing involuntarily committed must have a mental illnessthat makes him or her likely to re-offend.QUESTION: What it says, right?MR. DONHAM: That's correct. What we ask -- our jury instruction was intendedto -- to clarify or to put a face to what is intended bythis word make. The term make has a lot of definitions,and our -- our version of it was that Crane's antisocialpersonality disorder had to compel him to behave in acertain way or --QUESTION: The Kansas Supreme Court appeared tohold that a person must be completely unable to controlhis behavior in order to meet what it thought theconstitutional standard is under the Due Process Clause. That's how I read the Kansas opinion, that it thought thatthere had to be a total, complete lack of control, notjust substantial, not just adequate lack, a complete lack th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC in order to meet U.S. constitutional standards.MR. DONHAM: I agree with that. It --QUESTION: Well, I don't think I do. I don'tthink that's what Hendricks said was the constitutionalstandard. Some lack of control, but I hadn't thought ithad to be percent or complete. I thought the Kansascourt got it wrong and went too far. There has to besomething there, but probably not complete.MR. DONHAM: Your Honor, I suppose thedifference may lie in -- in what is meant by total orabsolute lack of control. No doubt an individual who hascertain designs to commit an act may exercise at timessome degree of control over his or her behavior. The -- the essential element in theseinvoluntary commitment statutes that must be kept in mindis, number one, they're -- they're civil. They're not --they're not criminal. Number two, it's to commit theperson to a mental hospital for treatment of the mentaldisease or defect, and this mental disease or defect mustbe significant enough to warrant depriving this person oftheir liberty.QUESTION: Yes. A -- a significant orsubstantial lack of control, but to try to move toward anirresistible impulse standard would fly in the face ofwhat the American Psychiatric Association thinks is th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC likely. I mean, it just -- it seemed to me the Kansascourt went somewhat too far in establishing the -- what itthought the constitutional requirement was.MR. DONHAM: I'm sorry. Was that a question? Excuse me. (Laughter.) QUESTION: You can interpret it as you wish. (Laughter.) QUESTION: You're free to dispute myinterpretation of that --MR. DONHAM: Well, some of these terms are --are pretty slippery, and of course, they're all taken incontext of what does a psychiatrist mean by them. I'm nota psychiatrist or a psychologist, but I think that thisCourt can set a -- a benchmark that can be followed by --QUESTION: We're not psychiatrists orpsychologists either. That's -- that's part of theproblem in --(Laughter.) QUESTION: -- in our setting as precise abenchmark as you would like us to set.QUESTION: Well, what -- did the Kansas SupremeCourt quote the very words from Hendricks that JusticeScalia referred to before to make this finding by linkingfuture dangerousness to a mental abnormality, a th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC personality disorder, that makes it difficult, if notimpossible, to control such behavior? That's what theKansas Supreme Court repeated. You seemed to haveconceded that it went beyond that. MR. DONHAM: No. I think my concession to the-- to the fact that the Kansas Supreme Court may haveexpanded its decision for Mr. Crane too far and -- and bydoing that, it in essence, if you will, limited theapplication of the act. By taking the particular factpattern of Mr. Crane for which the only available and theonly reasonable qualifying mental defect would have beenthe inability to control behavior and saying that it's nowrequired for all persons, what the Kansas Supreme Courtdid was effectively cut off, I think unfairly, the abilityof the State to incapacitate people who have other type ofsignificant mental disorders such as Justice Scalia haspointed out, the hallucinations, the psychoses. Those area different breed of mental illnesses with differenteffects. QUESTION: Would -- would your objections andthe -- and perhaps the Kansas court's objections have beenmet if instruction no. at page of the joint appendixsaid that mental abnormality means a congenital oracquired condition substantially affecting the emotionalor volitional capacity? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. DONHAM: If I were to write the instruction,it would have read it is a acquired or congenitalcondition that affects the emotional or volitionalcapacity to the degree that the person is unable toexercise self-control.QUESTION: Just -- what about a person whothinks other people are -- are like rocks? You know? Imean, he can control himself. He just has a totallybizarre emotional -- totally bizarre emotional situation,an autistic kind of person unable to understand emotionsat all. What do we do with that person, absolutely mad asa hatter, in common parlance, and also dangerous?MR. DONHAM: Well, if he's dangerous because --QUESTION: Yes. He's dangerous because he'sautistic or has no sense whatsoever of what a feeling is. All right? Now, can he control himself? Absolutely. Hehas no volitional impairment. He just has this bizarreemotional situation. What do we do about that person? And, of course, I'll imagine it as bizarre as you want.(Laughter.) MR. DONHAM: I -- I would say that he's anappropriate for an involuntary commitment under theprovision --QUESTION: Right. So, what standard there do weuse? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. DONHAM: That he would be unable --QUESTION: So, they can't do it with controlbecause control has to do with volition.MR. DONHAM: This would be a person susceptibleto commitment because he's unable to care for himself, andtherefore poses a danger. QUESTION: No. He cares for himself perfectly. He just has this emotional impairment. What do we do? It's a problem. MR. DONHAM: Yes, it is. It's a significantproblem because were talking about depriving people oftheir liberty, and we're -- we're basing it on thetestimony of people who don't fully understand their fieldof expertise at times, which is why this Court should seta high benchmark to preclude the inadvertent commitment ofsomeone who really shouldn't have gone to a mentalhospital. I'm particularly distressed over the use of anantisocial personality disorder in that it is -- it isgiven simply to someone who has a history of offenses. So, that history of offenses provides the basis for thediagnosis, and it provides the basis for the prediction offuture dangerousness. In effect, the State seeks toinvoluntarily commit someone because they have a longprior criminal history. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC My time is almost up. If there are no morequestions. CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: Thank you, Mr. Donham.The case is submitted.(Whereupon, at : a.m., the case in theabove-entitled matter was submitted.) th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC A ability : : : : : : able : : : : : : : : : abnormality : :,, : : : : :,, : : : : : : : :, : : about : : : : : : : : : : : :, :, : :,, :, : :, : above-entitled : : absent : absolute : absolutely : : : : : : : :, absolution : absolved : accordance :, according : account : accurate : acknowledge : : acquired : : act : : : :, :, :, :, :,, : :,, : : : acting : : : acts : : : :, actual : : : actually : : : :, : : added : : Addington : addition : additional : : : : :,, :, address : : adequate :, :, : adequately : : adjective : admitted :, : adopt : adopted : advances : affecting : affects : : after : : : again : : : : : : against : aggravated : agree : : :,, : allow : allowed : : almost : alone : : : Along : although : : always : Amendment : American :, : among : amount : and/or : : annual :, :,,, another : answer : : : : antisocial : : :, :, :,,, : :,, : : :, : : anybody : anything : :, : : anyway : apart : apparent : apparently : APPEARANCES : appeared : appears : appendix :,, : : application : : applied : applies : : : apply : appropriate : : : approved : : approximately : arguably : argued : argument : : :, : : : asking : aspect : : assert : Association :, : assumption : attack : Attorney : authority : autistic :, available : : : Avenue : avoids : away : a.m : : : B back : : : :, : bad : : bargain :,, based :,,,, : : basing : basis : :, :, battery : becomes : before : : : :, : behalf :, :, : : : behave : : behavior :, : :, : : : : : : :, : :,, : :,, : : :,, :,,,, : :,, : : : : :, being : : : : : : : believe : : : : : : :, : below :, :,, benchmark :, : best : : better : : : between : : : beyond : :, : :,, : : : :,, : : : :, : Bible : bit : bizarre :,,, body : both : : break : breed : bridge : brief : : briefs : bring : brought : Bundy : C C : :, : : call : : called : came : capacities : capacity : : : : : care : : : cares : CARLA : : : carried : case : : : : : : : : : : : : :, :,, : : :, cases : : th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC condition : : : : : :, categorization :, category : : causality :, cause : caused : : : central : certain : : certainly : :, : : : : : certiorari : : challenge : chance : : changed : Chief :, : : children :, choice : : chose : : Cite : civil :, : :, : : civilly : : : : : : : claiming : clarify : class : classified : Clause : clear : : : clearly : client :, : clinically :, cognitive : : : come : commit : : : : : : : : : : : :, : commitment :, : : : : : : : :, commitments : : commits : committed : : :, : :, : : : : committing : : : common : : : compel : compelled : competent : complaining : complete :, :, completely : comply :, conceded : : conceivable : concern : concerned : : concerning : concession : : conditional :, conduct : : :,, : confinement : conform : : confronted : : confusion : congenital : : connection : consider :, considerably : consistent : : Constitution : : constitutional : : : : : :, : : : : :, : constitutionally :, : : :, contains : contemplates : context : : continue : contradictory : control : :, :,,, :, : :, :, :,,, : : :, :, :,, :, :, :, : : : :, :,,,, : :,, :,, :,, :, :,,, :, : : :, controlling : :,, : : : : : convince : correct : : : :, : correctly : couched : country : : counts :,, Couple : coupled : : course : : : court :, :,,,, :, : : :, :,, :, : : : :, :, : : :,,,, : : : : :,, :, : :,,, :, :, : :,, :,, : Courtroom : court's : : : : : cover :, covered :, Crane : : : : : : : : :,,, : : Crane's : : : : create : crime :, :, : : crimes : : : criminal : : : : : : :, : : : criminally : criminals : criteria : criterion : cross : crude :, crux : current : cut : D D : danger : : dangerous :, : :, :, :, : :, : : :,, : : :, : :,, dangerousness : : : : : :,,, : : : : DCM : deal : : dealt : : : debts : : decide :, decision : : : : : : : : : : : defect : :, : defense : define : :, defined : : : : : : defines : defining : definition : : :, : : : : : : : : definitional : definitions : degree : : delusion : : : delusional :, : :, : : demand : demonstrate : deposition : depriving : : describe : : described : : : describing : th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC description : : descriptive :, : designs : determination : determined : : determining : diagnosed : : diagnosis : :, :, : : : :, : : : : : : dictum : die : difference : : : different :, : : : :, differently : difficult : :, :, : : : difficulties : difficulty :,, : : : : :, directly : :, : disabled : disagree : : disagreement : discharge : disease :, disorder : : :,,, : :,, :,,, :, :, :,,,, :, :, :,,,, : : :, :, :, :, :, : : :,, : :,,, :, : : : disordered : disorders : : : : displayed : dispute : distinct : distinction :, : : distinguish : : : distinguishable : distinguished : distinguishes : distressed : doing : : : done : : : Donham : : :,,, : :, :,, :,, : : : :, :, :,,, : :,, : : :,,, :, :, :, : :,, :,, : doubt :, : : :, : :, : : Dr :, draw : : : DSM :, :,, : : DSM-IV : :,, :,, due : : D.C : E E : :, easy : effect :, : effectively : effects : either : : : element : : :,,, : : : : : : : : : elements : :,,, eligible : emotional : :, : :, : :,,,,,, : : : :,,, : emotions : empathy : empirical : encounter : end : : : enforcement : engage : : enough : ensures :, entered :, entirely : : environment : equate :, erred : erroneous : erroneously : ESQ :, :, essence : essential : : essentially : : establishing : evaluative : even : : : : : : : : eventually : every : : : :, evidence : : exact : : exactly : :, : : : : example : : : exception : excuse : : : : exercise :,, : : : : exhibitionism : exist : existence : : expanded :, : expert : : : : : : expertise : experts :, : : extent : extra : F face : : : facility : fact : : : : : : :, :, factor :, facts : factual : fair : : : falls : familiar : far : : : : : : fault : feasible : feeling : felt : field : filed : final : find : : :, :, : finding : :, :,,, : fine : fingertips : first : : fit : : : : fits : fly : focused : folks : follow : : followed : : following : : form : : : forms : forward :, Foucha : found : :, :,, : four :, : :, : Fourteenth : free : : : : frequent : from :, : :, :, : : : :,, : : : : :, : : : th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC :, : : : front :,, full : fully : : : full-blown : further : future :, :, : : : : : G G : garden : gave : : : general : : : : : : generally : gets : getting : Ginsburg :, Ginsburg's : : : give : : : given : : : : gives : go : : : goes : : going : : : : : : gone : good : : group : guess :, : guilty : H habitual : habitually : half : hallucinating : hallucinations : : hand : happened : : happens : hatter : having : : : :, hear : : held :, : :, Hendricks : :,, :,,, :, :,,,, : : :, : :,,,,, : :, :,,, :, :, :,, : : : : : her : : : high : higher : him :, : :, : : :, :, :, :, historic : historically : history : :,, hold : holding : :,, : :, : : : : Honor : : :, : : : : : : : : :, : :,, : : :, : : : : : : Honors : hope : hospital : : hypothetical : : I ignores : illness : : : :, : : : : : : illnesses : imagine :, : impair : impaired : : impairment : :,,, :, :, :, : : :, : :, :,,, :, :,, :,, :, : : :, : : : impairments :, :, : : imposed : impossibility : :,, impossible : : :, : : : : imprisoned : impulse : : inability : : :, : : :,, : : inadvertent : inasmuch : incapacitate : incautious : include : including : : inclusive : incompetency : indeed : indefinite :, : independent : indicated : indication : individual : : : : : : : : : : : individuals : :, : : : : :,, : insecure : insofar : instant : instructed :,,, instruction : :, : : : :, :, : : : :, :, : : instructions :, : intellectual : :, intended : :, interested : interfered : interpret : interpretation : interpreted : inviting :,, involuntarily : : : : : involuntary : : : : irrelevant :, irresistible : : irresponsibility : irritable : isolate : issue : : : : J J : : : JOHN : : : joint :, : : Judge : judgment : : jurors : jury :, : : :,, :,, : :,,, : :, :, just : : : : : : : : :,, : : : : :, :, : :, : : :,,, : :, : :,, : Justice :, : : :,, :, :, : :, : : : : : K Kansas :,,, :,,, :, : :,, : : : : :, : : : :,, :,,, : :,,, :,, : :, : : :, :, :, :,,,,, : : : :, :,,, Kennedy : kept : kind : :, : : : himself : :, : : : insanity : : th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC : : : : kinds : : : know : : : :, : :,,,,,, : : :, : known : L lack : :,, :,, : :, :,, :,, :,, language : :, : : large : larger : Larned : last : : Laughter :,, : laundry : law :, : : : leads : least : :, leaving : left : : legally : legislative : legislature : less : : : lesser : let : let's : level : liar : liberty : : lie : life : light : like : : : : : : : : likelihood : likely : : : : : : : :, :,, : : limit : : : limited : : : : limiting : :, limits : line : link : : linking : links : : list :, : :, : listed : literature : little : : locked : : long : : : : : longer : : look : : : looking : lost : lot : : : :, : Louisiana : M Mabugat :, mad : made : : : maintaining : major : majority : : make :, :, : :, : makes : : :, : : : :, : : : : : male-sentenced :, malingerer : man : many : : : material : matter : : : maximum : may : : : :, : : :, :, : maybe : mean : :,, : : : : : : : :, : meaning : means : meant : measure : medical : meet : : meets :, mental : : :,, :, :, :,, :,,,, :,, :, : : : :, : : : :,, :, : :, :, : :, :,, : :, :, : : :,, : : :,, : mentally : : : mention : : mentioned : : mentioning : mere :, :, : : merely : met : Michael : : might : : : :,, mind : : mine-run : : minute : misimpression : misled : misspoke : molest : molested : moral : more : :, : : : most : : : move : much : : murky : must : : : : :, :, myself : N N :, : narrow : : necessarily : : necessary : need : : : needed :, needs : : : never : :,, :, : new : next : :, nice : normal : :, notion : number : : :, :, N.W : O O : : object : objected : objecting : objection : objections :, objectively : objects : observe : obtain : occurred : October : off : : offend : : offender : : : offense : : offenses : :, okay : : :, :, Olathe : one : :, :, : : : :, : :, : :, : : : : : : : : th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC oneself : one's : only : :, : : : : :, : : :, :, : : :, opinion : : : : : : : :, : : : opportunity : : oral : : : : order : : :,, : : : ordinary : : :, other :,,, : : : : : :, : : : : : : others : : ought : : out :, :, : : : : : : : : : outside : over : : overriding : own : : : : O'Connor's :, P P : page : : : :, : pages :, papers : parcel : : : : parents : parlance : part : : : : : : : : : : : : particular : : : particularly : passage : past : pathology : : pattern :, : pay : : pedophilia : : : penalty : penitentiary : people :,, : : : : : : :, :,, : : : :, percent : : :,,,, : : :,,,,, : perceptual : :, : perfectly : perform : perhaps : : : : : : : : permit : permits : person : : : :,,, : :, : : : : : :, :, : : : :, :,,,, : personality : :, :,, : :,,, :,,,, :, :,, :,,, : :, :,, :, : :, :, : : : : :, : : : personnel : persons : petition : :, Petitioner :, : : petitioner's : phase :,, phrase : phrases : pick :, : pickup : plainly : plea :,, please : : point : : : : : pointed : policy : population : :,, :, :, portion : : : poses : position :, : : positions : possible : potential : potentially : precise : preclude : predator : : : : : :, :,, : :,, :, predators : : predatory : predicting : prediction : : predisposes :, prefatory : premise : preponderance : presented : :, pretty : principal : prior :, : : : prison : :, :, prisoner :, : prisons : probability : probable : probably : : : problem : :, :, : :, proceed :, : : proceeded : proceeding : : proceedings : process : : : : : produce : professed : : profession : program : : proper : properly : : :, proposition : prosecutor : : prosecutors : prove : : : :,, : provides :, provision : : psychiatric : : :, : : psychiatrically : psychiatrist : :, :, psychiatrists : :, : :,, : : : psychological : psychologist : :, : psychologists : psychopaths : :, psychoses : psychosis : pull : : put : : : : Q qualifies : : qualify : qualifying : question :,, :,,,, : :,,, :,, :, :, :, :, :,, :, :,,, :,, :,, :,,,,, :,, :,, :,,,,, : : :,,,,,, :, :,,, :,,,, :,,,,,,,, : :,, :,,, :, : :,,,, :,,,, : :, :,,, : :, :,, :,, :, :, : :,,, :, : :, :,, :, :,,,, :, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC :, :,,,,, : :,, :, questions : quite : : quotations : quote : :, : quoted : R R : raise : : rather : : : : : reaches : read : :, : :, : : : reading :, reads : realize : really : : :, : : : : reason : : : :, : reasonable :,, : : :,, : : reasons : recidivism : : recidivist : :, : recidivists : : reckless : recognized : record : : refer : reference :, : references : referred : : refers : refrain : regardless : REHNQUIST : : reinforced : relates : relatively : release : : :,,,, : : released : : : relevant :,, : relied : rely : repeat : : repeated : repetition : repetitive : : repetitiveness : require : : required : : : : requirement : : requirements : :, : : requires : : :, : : requiring : : : requisites : respect : : respondent : : : : response : responsibility : responsible : : rested : result : resulting : review :, reviewing : reviews :, re-observe : re-offend : : : : right : : : : :, : : :, : : : : : : :, : : : :, rights : risk : rocks : rule : ruled : : rules : running : S S : : safe : : same : :, Satan :,, satisfactory : satisfied : : satisfy : : : satisfying : saying :, : : :, : :,, : : : : : : : : : says : : : : : : :, : : : : Scalia : : : : : Scalia's : screened : second : secondly : section : sections : see : seeking : seeks : seem : : : : seemed : : : seems : : : : : : : : : seized : self : self-control : : sense : : sensible : sentence : : sentenced : : separate : : : separated : serious : :, serves : set : :,,, :, : setting : seven : :,, : :, several : severe :, : sex : sexual : : : : : : :,, :, :, :,,, :,, sexually : : :, : : :, : : : : :, short : show : : : :, : :,, :,, : : showing : shown : : shows : significant : : :, : : significantly : simply : : : : : since : sir : : situation :, six :, : slight : slippery : society :, : society's : : sociopath :, :,, sociopaths : : some :,,, : : :, : :,,,,, : : : :, : : : : :, : somebody : : : somebody's : someone : :, : : something : : : : :, : : somewhat : : : sorry : : : : :, : :,, : :, : sort : sought : : sounded : th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC sounds : speaking : : specific :, specifically : : square : stand : : standard :, : :, : :,, : :, : :, : standards : : standing : stands : : : State : : :, : : : : : :,, : : : stated : : statement :,, States :, State's : : : : stating : status : statute :, :,, : : : : :, : : :, : : : : : :, : :,, : : : :,,, : :,, :,,,, statutes : : : statutory :, : : Stevens : Still : Stovall : : :,, :, :,, :, :,,,, :, :, : :,,, :, :, :, :,,, :,, :, :,,,, :,, : :, :,,, :, : : :,, :,,, : :,, :,,, : :,, :,, :, : :,,, :,,,, : strict : strike : studies : subgroup : subject : : : : submission : submitted :, subsection : :, : subsections : : subset : substantial : : : substantially : substantive : substitute : success : suffer : : :, suffered : suffering : suffers : : sufficient : sufficiently : suggest : :, : : : suggesting : summary : supplement : supplemented : : supporting : suppose : : : Supreme :, :, : : : : :,,, : : : : :, :, :, : :,, sure : : susceptible : : T T : :, take : : :,, : : : : taken : takes :, taking : talk : talked : talking : : :, :,, : : talks : Ted : tell : :,, : : : : : telling : : : : tells : temptation : term :, : : : terminology : terms : : : : test :, testified : testify : : testifying : testimony : : : thank : : : their : : : : :, : :,, : : : :,,, : : :, : :, thinking : thinks : : : third : : : : though : : : thought : : : : :, : : : : : : : :, : three : : :, :,, : :, : through : : : : tie : tied : time : : :, : : times : : : today : : together : told :,, Topeka : total : : : : : : totally : : :, tough : touted : toward : trait : traits : : : : transitional : :, treatment : : : : trial : : : : : true : : : : try : trying : : : : : : : Tuesday : two :, : : : : : type : : U ultimately : unable :, : : :, : : :, :, unconstitutional : :, : : :, :, under :, :, :, :, :, :, : : :, : : : :, : : : : : : : : : understand : : : :, theme : theory : : thing :, : : things : : think :, :,, : :, : : :,, :, : :,, : : : : : : understood :, unfairly : unique : : United :, unlawful : th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC unnecessary : until :, unusual : urge : use : : : : used : : :, using : utter : : U.S : V v : :, : valid : value : variety : version : very : : : : :, : : : : :, : : view :, :, violence : : :, violent : : :, : : :, : : : : :, voice : volition :, : volitional :, : :,,, : :, :, : :, : :, : :, :, : :,, : :, : :, : :, :,, : :, : :, volitionally : W wall : want :, : : : : :, : : : : : : : warehoused : warrant : Washington : wasn't : : : : way : :, : :,, : : : ways : :, well :, :, : :,,, : : :, : : : :, : : : : : : : : :, : went : : : : : : were : : : :, : : : : : : We'll : : we're : : : : :, : : :, , : -a : :,,,, : : : :,,, : : : - : We've : : whatsoever : : while : : whole : : wife : wise : wish : witness : witnesses : woman :,, women : word : :, : words : : : : : : : work : : worry : wouldn't : : wow : : write : written : wrong : :, : :,, : wrote : X :, years : - : : :, : : : : : : : : : : : : X Y : : : : : : : :,,,, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC 