 IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XJO ANNE B. BARNHART, COMMISSIONER OF SOCIAL SECURITY, Petitioner ::::v. : No. -CLEVELAND B. WALTON. :- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XWashington, D.C.Wednesday, January , The above-entitled matter came on for oralargument before the Supreme Court of the United States at: a.m.APPEARANCES:JEFFREY A. LAMKEN, ESQ., Assistant to the SolicitorGeneral, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; onbehalf of the Petitioner.KATHRYN L. PRYOR, ESQ., Richmond, Virginia; on behalf ofthe Respondent. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC C O N T E N T SORAL ARGUMENT OF JEFFREY A. LAMKEN, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioner KATHRYN L. PRYOR, ESQ.On behalf of the Respondent REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OFJEFFREY A. LAMKEN, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioner PAGE th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC P R O C E E D I N G S(: a.m.)CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: We'll hear argumentnext in No. -, Jo Anne Barnhart v. Cleveland Walton.Mr. Lamken.ORAL ARGUMENT OF JEFFREY A. LAMKENON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERMR. LAMKEN: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court:Congress -- Congress designed the SocialSecurity disability program to provide benefits to workerswho suffered from long-term disabilities, individuals whowere, in effect, forced into premature retirement by asevere impairment. Consistent with the program'sorigin --QUESTION: Just a moment, Mr. Lamken. Spectators are admonished. Do not talk untilyou get out of the courtroom. The Court remains insession.Go ahead. MR. LAMKEN: Consistent with the program'sorigin, purpose, and text, the Commissioner has for years from the program's inception, in adjudicating tensof millions of claims, and throughout repeated amendments,adhered to a single and consistent, reasonable th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC construction of the definition of disability. To bedisabled, a claimant must have an impairment that haslasted or can be expected to last at -- at least months at a disabling level of severity; that is, theimpairment must preclude substantial gainful activity forthe months during which it must last. QUESTION: Well, now, presumably though, as Iunderstand it, the Commissioner could evaluate a claim andstart benefits in less than months.MR. LAMKEN: Correct, Your Honor. That's --that's because the statute allows the Commissioner toaward benefits if the -- if the disabling impairment canbe expected to last months. So, for purposes --QUESTION: And can disregard possibly periods ofwork during that period if the commission is satisfiedthat this is going to be a permanent impairment.MR. LAMKEN: Yes. If the work does not evidencean ability to engage in substantial gainful activity. Forexample, the Commissioner has what are called unsuccessfulwork attempt regulations. If they do not evidence anability to engage in substantial gainful activity, theymay be disregarded and treated as not evidence of theindividual's ability to engage in substantial gainfulactivity.Under the court of appeals' view, however -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: That seems sort of inconsistent withyour view on the second question that trial work periodsshouldn't begin until the end of the months.MR. LAMKEN: Your Honor, no. Our view is notthat the trial work period does not begin until the end of months. Our view is that the trial work period onlybegins if the -- if the claimant actually becomes entitledto benefits at some point, and that's true because thetrial work period begins when the claimant becomesentitled to benefits. If the claimant never becomesentitled to benefits, he never receives a trial workperiod.QUESTION: What -- what provision in thelanguage of the statute says that you can't start a trialwork period until the end of months? MR. LAMKEN: Again, it's not our position thatyou can't start a work period -- a trial work period untilthe end of months. QUESTION: Well, you say unless the benefitshave started. MR. LAMKEN: Right, unless they are entitled tobenefits. And we would be relying on (c)(), whichappears on page a of the appendix to the petition forwrit of certiorari. And it says that a period of trialwork for any individual shall begin -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: Just a moment, Mr. Lamken. Exactlywhere on a are you reading? MR. LAMKEN: I'm sorry. It's at the bottomwhere it's numbered . QUESTION: Yes. MR. LAMKEN: And it says, a period of trial workfor any individual shall begin with the month in which hebecomes entitled to disability insurance benefits. If theindividual never becomes entitled to insurance disabilitybenefits, the individual also cannot, as a matter oflogic, become entitled to a trial work period. And that is also consistent with the --withwhat the trial work period does. The trial work periodprecludes the Commissioner from considering -- fromtreating work as evidence that the disability has ceased.The statute in the preceding paragraph number uses theword ceased. That means that if the individual isn'tactually already entitled to benefits, there can be notrial -- there is no purpose in the trial work period.It's only there for determining whether or not thedisability has ceased.QUESTION: Of course, the difference is theother side says that he becomes entitled not when he isadjudicated to be entitled, but he becomes entitled when,in fact, all of the conditions exist for which the -- the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC benefits are payable.MR. LAMKEN: Yes, Your Honor. QUESTION: Why aren't they right about that?MR. LAMKEN: Because the statute provides thatthe individual is entitled to benefits if he has adisability which can be expected to last months or haslasted months. That's most naturally read as referringto the time of the adjudication. In other words, whenstatutes say if the following conditions are met, you'reentitled to something and they use the present tense, asthis statute does, they're normally understood asrequiring those conditions to be met at the time of theadjudication.QUESTION: Yes, but the -- the trial workstatute itself says that any services rendered by anindividual during a period of trial work shall be deemednot to have been rendered in determining whether hisdisability has ceased.MR. LAMKEN: Right, in determining whether hisdisability has ceased. That means that for a person tohave a -- to be entitled to a trial work period, he musthave what is called a disability, and whether or not anindividual has a disability is determined from theperspective of the adjudicator at the time of theadjudication. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: But I thought you took the positionin --I thought you did not take the position in yourbrief that as a matter of law there had to be anadjudication. I thought you said that ordinarily that'sthe way it -- it works in practice, but that the realpoint you were making was that if the individual went backto work prior to the adjudication and therefore showedthat in fact the disability or the incapacity and hencethe -- the disability, as you see it, is not going tolast, that that's the end of the matter. That would cutit off. I didn't think you took as a theoretical matter aposition that there had to be an adjudication, merely thatthere ordinarily would be one. MR. LAMKEN: I --I think you've preciselydescribed our position, Justice Souter. The answer isthat if the individual produces evidence, such as byreturning to work successfully for the period of years,for example, in this case, and shows that he, in fact, wasnot incapacitated, he was able to work, the adjudicatorcan take that into account and decide that no, you're notentitled to disability benefits, and if you were neverentitled to disability benefits, you also do not get atrial work period.QUESTION: But -- but you would not allow him tocome in and say long before I came in for an adjudication, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC I was in fact disabled and entitled to benefits. Youwouldn't allow him to say that. MR. LAMKEN: No. We would not allow him to comeback and say -- and say, in effect, that I was thought tobe disabled for a period of months reasonably butmistakenly because the statute requires that you can beexpected -- present tense. Now, that is consistent with the way courts --QUESTION: You're hanging an awful lot on that-- on that can be expected I -- I must say. MR. LAMKEN: Yes, Your Honor. But actually thecontrary view would make -- creates a rather difficulttype of adjudication --QUESTION: A difficult --MR. LAMKEN: -- to make and one that's entirelyforeign to the law. QUESTION: You got to look back months andfigure out whether months ago he -- he could be expectedto --MR. LAMKEN: Not merely that. You would have tolook back for the entire period covered by the applicationand decide if any moment during that period it could havebeen possible, reasonably but mistakenly thought, that hisdisability would last months. That type ofdetermination is entirely foreign to the law. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC And it's also inconsistent with the purpose ofthe can be expected to last prong. That exists preciselybecause, as Justice O'Connor pointed out, the Commissionerneeds to be able to adjudicate claims before monthsgoes by. And therefore when the adjudicator -- when theCommissioner decides claims before months have gone by,you look at the can be expected to last prong. QUESTION: So, the real significance of thepresent tense is that it kind of gives an opportunity forthe application of a kind of best evidence rule.MR. LAMKEN: Yes, yes, exactly. And that isconsistent with the -- the --excuse me --the statute,which says that when you're deciding these claims, youlook at all of the evidence in the file and you try andcome up with all of the available evidence. You don'tdisregard evidence that is recently arriving merelybecause at some earlier time you would have made amistake. And that is also -- I'm sorry. Turning back to the question of disability, theCommissioner's construction of the term disability in ourview is supported by the text of the act. The actimposes --QUESTION: What kind of deference do we givehere? At the time this claim was evaluated, theregulations hadn't been adopted. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. LAMKEN: That's correct, Your Honor. QUESTION: So, we're into Skidmore rather thanChevron? MR. LAMKEN: No, Your Honor. QUESTION: No? MR. LAMKEN: We believe that the Commissioner isentitled to Chevron deference regardless of when the claimwas adjudicated. The purpose -- the reason this Courtgives Chevron deference is when the -- the decision hasthe formality and uses the procedures that Congress meantthe administrator to use when filling in gaps or whenexplaining the meaning of the statute. It does not matterthat, in fact, that the administrator, or in this case theCommissioner, used those procedures after the claim wasadjudicated because we know that after the thoroughnessconsideration and using the notice and comment procedures,the Commissioner came to the same conclusion, that in factthe best reading of the statute is the one that theCommissioner has adhered to for years and throughrepeated amendments to the statute. QUESTION: The -- the court of appeals here saidthat that simply wasn't consistent with the statute and itstruck me that they had a very good argument just lookingat the statute that you are kind of -- reduced to somefairly odd statutory construction to justify your th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC position.MR. LAMKEN: No, Your Honor. Actually webelieve that we have the far more reasonable understandingof the statute and certainly the one that's moreconsistent with Congress' intent. The statute --QUESTION: Well, supposing we just say that welook to the statute itself for what Congress' intent was?MR. LAMKEN: Focusing on the language of thestatute.QUESTION: Right. MR. LAMKEN: The statute imposes tworequirements. First, there must be an impairment.QUESTION: Where do we find the statute in -- inthe --MR. LAMKEN: It's (d)()(A) and (d)()(A)which appear on pages --just the heading of (d)()appears on a -- and a of the appendix to the petitionfor a writ of certiorari. QUESTION: Thank you. MR. LAMKEN: Turning at page , it establishestwo requirements that are interrelated. The first is thatthere must be an impairment, which has lasted or can beexpected to last months or result in death. Second,the impairment must be one that precludes substantialgainful activity, that is, it must be so severe that the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC individual cannot engage in any work in the nationaleconomy. Given Congress' repeated intent not to providebenefits for short-term disabilities, it is most naturalto read those two requirements together so that theimpairment, which must last months, is also animpairment which must preclude substantial gainfulactivity --QUESTION: Well, maybe. You know, once youposit that -- that Congress didn't want to providecompensation for short-term disability. But if -- if youhad to determine what Congress' intent was purely fromthat language, I just don't think you get there.Disability means an inability to gain -- to engage in anysubstantial -- substantial gainful activity. It doesn'tsay how long that disability has to -- it could be, youknow, a week-long inability. And then it goes on, byreason of any mentally --medically determinable physicalor mental impairment which can be expected to result indeath or which has lasted or can be expected to last for months. All it requires is that the impairment be along-term impairment and if that produces even a week-long inability to work, you're -- you're technicallywithin the language of that -- of that provision.MR. LAMKEN: Justice Scalia, that might be oneway of reading the statute, but it's not -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: I think it's the only way to read thestatute. I don't see how else you can read it. MR. LAMKEN: We disagree, Your Honor. Webelieve that you read the two requirements togethersensibly so that they overlap. And in fact --QUESTION: It is my understanding of yourposition is you're saying that impairment, given thecontext of the statute, means a constantly, continuouslydisabling impairment, and disabling means that you are notequipped to engage in substantial -- whatever SGA stands-- substantial gainful activity. So that the wordimpairment means a disabling impairment. MR. LAMKEN: In effect, we're arguing, yes, thatthe type of impairment that Congress was referring to isan impairment that prevents substantial gainful activitybecause that's the type of impairment that is referencedin the statute. QUESTION: And if it isn't --if it doesn'tprevent substantial gainful activity, then it isn't animpairment within the meaning of the section. MR. LAMKEN: It is not the type of impairmentthat you must have for months. That's correct, YourHonor. That is a correct characterization of our --ourposition. I think if --QUESTION: So, if you look just at the word th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC impairment and what it means, you get back to theinability to do substantial gainful employment for thatinterval of time.MR. LAMKEN: Your Honor, one way you could --you could put your emphasis on the word impairment. TheCommissioner has traditionally placed the emphasis on theword severe in (d)()(A) or inability to engage insubstantial gainful activity in (d)()(A), but that wouldbe one way of achieving the same result that theCommissioner has. And that is actually supported by thetext of the definition of impairment which makes it clearthat --QUESTION: I don't know why you don't emphasizethe word which. MR. LAMKEN: Pardon? QUESTION: I don't know why you don't focus onthe word which. Does which refer to both inability andimpairment or just one of them? MR. LAMKEN: I think as a grammatical matter,Justice Stevens, we have to confess that the word whichrefers to the impairment because one would not ordinarilyexpect the substantial gainful activity to result in deathor the inability -- better still, the inability to engagein substantial gainful activity to result in death. Butfocusing back -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: One would not expect the inability tobe expected to last -- to result in death where it lastedfor a continuous period of months? I don't know why.MR. LAMKEN: Well, Justice Stevens, we'd beperfectly willing to accept that if that were your view,but for purposes of this case, we --we have --forgrammatical purposes, we believe that the phrase, whichcan be expected to result in death, modifies theimpairment not the inability to engage in substantialgainful activity. QUESTION: So, you don't think it means both ofwhich can be expected. It just means one of which can beexpected. You're willing to accept that anyway. QUESTION: Where is the definition ofimpairment? I'm trying to find --MR. LAMKEN: It's on page a, Justice Scalia,after the numeral of the joint -- of the appendix to thepetition for writ of certiorari. It says: for purposesof this subsection, a physical or mental impairment is animpairment -- it's somewhat circular, we confess -- thatresults from an anatomical, physiological, orpsychological abnormality that is medically demonstrable.That makes it clear that the impairment isn'tnecessarily just the underlying medical condition, but itsays that it's the -- an impairment that results from the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC anatomical, physiological, or psychological abnormality.So, in a sense the impairment can be viewed not merely asthe medical condition but the result of that conditionsuch as in the case of a mental impairment, inability tofocus. QUESTION: I'm not sure that's necessarily avery precise reading of that section. It says, impairmentresults from anatomical, physiological, or psychologicalabnormalities. In other words, the results from is theabnormalities. MR. LAMKEN: The impairment is what results fromthe abnormalities. The impairment is what theabnormalities produce. QUESTION: Right. MR. LAMKEN: So, if the condition is, in thiscase schizophrenia, the impairment would be the inabilityto focus, the inability to think clearly, the impairmentof the cognitive functions is another way of putting it.Your Honor, what -- I believe that the problemwith the court of appeals' approach of severing the tworequirements of an impairment -- the fact that theimpairment must last months and that the impairmentmust be one that is of disabling severity --is that itdoes not -- it does not eliminate an ambiguity but createsone. Even if we were to severe those two entirely and to th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC say that the only the --that only the impairment mustlast months, it's clear that the impairment must be ofdisabling severity for some period of time because itwould be absurd to suggest you're entitled to benefits fora minute or a second or actually, Justice Scalia, with alldue respect, in my view for the week that you suggest. Given that there is an implied duration of sometime for the severity, that it must be severe enough topreclude substantial gainful activity for some period oftime, it is up to the Commissioner to choose the periodwhich makes the most sense, is most consistent with thestatutory structure and Congress' intent. There are other indicia of -- of the structureof the statute that make it clear that Congress was notcontemplating short-term disabilities such as a week. Forexample, the statute does not terminate benefits just atthe moment when you are able to return to work. Benefits,instead, continue for an additional months followingthat. If the statute is, as the Commissioner supposes, along-term disability statute, that makes sense becausethose months of additional payments give you a time totransition back to work, to get ready to work to find ajob. If in fact the statute is, as the court ofappeals has construed it, a short-term disability statute th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC where benefits are payable when you're out only for aweek, as Justice Scalia suggested, that would mean that anindividual who is out of work for a week, because of achronic condition like asthma, anxiety, arthritis, andnumerous ones that last a year or more, would be entitledto months of benefits plus the one week for which theyare briefly out. It's hard to believe that that was thetype of statute that Congress had envisioned. In addition, that -- that view is supported bythe repeated amendments to the statute that Congress --repeated amendments to the definition of disabilityagainst the backdrop of the Commissioner's now -year-old settled construction. Years after the Commissionerfirst adopted her construction of the statute in , in Congress amended the statute, and when Congress didso, it did not merely leave in place the Commissioner'sby-then settled construction, instead Congress reiteratedthat construction in the committee reports that wereaccompanying it -- accompanying the amendments anddescribed the act in precisely the same terms that theCommissioner had through the regulations. Congress, in fact, rejected a proposal --actually a bill -- from the House of Representatives thatwould have shortened the duration requirement instead ofto months to months, and the stated reason for th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC rejecting that -month period was a disability -- it wouldnot be sufficient to preclude the payment of benefits forshort-term disabilities. Instead, as the committeereports stated, it was necessary to require that theindividual be under a disability for a period of more --of longer than months. Instead, Congress meant torequire that the individual be completely and totallydisabled throughout a continuous period of months.Under the court of appeals --QUESTION: Well, but actually not because youcan have these -- not the trial work, but the unsuccessfulwork episodes. So, you're able to --MR. LAMKEN: That -- that is part of thedefinition of substantial gainful activity. It's -- I'mbeing somewhat imprecise when I say you're unable to work.What you have to be able to do is engage in substantialgainful activity, and if you return to work for a briefperiod of time, for less than months generally under theCommissioner's regulations, and then your impairment comesback and prevents you continuing that, the Commissionerwill not treat that as evidence to obtain -- evidence ofyour ability to engage in substantial gainful activity.In fact, it's evidence of the opposite because you triedto go back heroically, but your impairment prevented youfrom successfully doing that. So, it's clear that you're th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC not able to engage in substantial gainful activity. QUESTION: So, the term substantial modifies --is directed to the length of the activity not the dailyintensity of the activity. MR. LAMKEN: It -- it -- the substantiality doesmodify the intensity of the activity, but in terms ofdetermining what kind of evidence shows that you're ableto engage in that activity, the Commissioner haslegislative authority to determine whether work -- whethercertain types of work attempts evidence your ability toengage in substantial gainful activity. And using that,the Commissioner said there were just certain things thatshould not count, such as unsuccessful work attempts, workattempts generally that are terminated within months of-- within months' of when they begin. QUESTION: Mr. Lamken, this case is unusual onthe facts because he came very close to making the -yearlimit, and there is the anomaly that they -- the person isapproved for receiving disability benefits in month andthen will be able to go on for months past the time thedisability ceases. And yet, this person, through no faultof his own -- it's kind of haphazard, by chance the onewho will make it and -- because it's based on aprediction, and the one who maybe --maybe the SocialSecurity office is backlogged. What is the reason for the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC disparity in time of adjudication? MR. LAMKEN: In fact, Your Honor, there were twoadjudications in this case in a very short period of timewithin the filing of benefits. The benefit claim wasfiled in March and April and in the --there was aninitial adjudication on May th, basically just over days after the April application was filed. In thatadjudication, a licensed psychiatrist determined that Mr.Walton was, in fact, able to engage in substantial gainfulactivity and that his impairment was not severe enough.He sought reconsiderations in June, and there -- adecision was issued in August. These are very short time frames, and they arenot atypical. Typically these types of claims areprocessed in less than days for the initialadjudication. Now, regrettably there will be occasions, as inall areas of law, where the outcome is affected by thetiming of the decision. And that is true becausesometimes evidence develops in the interim which wouldallow one person to prevail where, if the adjudication hadhappened earlier, they would not have known about thatevidence and the result would have been different.But the fact that some individuals may get awindfall and become entitled to benefits based on an th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC erroneous prediction of expectation does not mean that theCommissioner is required to reach an erroneous result whenadjudicating a claim where he has actual evidence that theindividual is able to engage in substantial gainfulactivity, as occurred here. In this case there is evidence that theindividual was able to engage successfully in working for solid years, and the Commissioner is not required toignore that probative, indeed dispositive evidence simplybecause the Commissioner might have made a mistake had theclaim been adjudicated earlier. QUESTION: Mr. Lamken, you said -- one of thethings you said is if the Fourth Circuit view prevailed,there would be a large increase in the number of peoplewho qualified for disability benefits. This FourthCircuit decision has been in effect now what? Over ayear?MR. LAMKEN: Yes, Your Honor. QUESTION: Is there any report of any swell inthe approved applications in the Fourth Circuit?MR. LAMKEN: Your Honor, I have -- do not haveany information regarding that. But the -- one of the major concerns about thisis it substantially increases the number of people whohave disabilities because no longer do you have to have an th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC impairment which precludes you from working for asubstantial period of time, but merely an --a medicalcondition that last months. When one considers thenumber of medical conditions that persist for monthsthat are capable of disabling somebody for a short periodof time, it clearly would have the effect of establishinga short-term benefits program that Congress did not intendto create.In fact, we are advised that approximately percent of all Americans have an impairment -- a medicalcondition which is chronic in the sense that it will last months that is capable of preventing them from workingfor short periods of time. And -- when construing thedefinition of disability, it is less plausible to believethat Congress intended to pull in so many Americans and tomake all of their periods of absence of work on account ofconditions like asthma, angina, arthritis, bad backs, andthe like which -- and turn them into disabilities.QUESTION: If we want to say --and I take ityou want us to say -- that if the agency has followed aconsistent and well-settled interpretation policy over along course of time, it's entitled to special deference,is that just Chevron, or is there some other case thattells us this? What's the best case authority is whatI'm -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. LAMKEN: Your Honor, we believe this is a --a classic case of Chevron deference. QUESTION: Is there another case other thanChevron that -- that talks about the length of time thatthe administration has --MR. LAMKEN: Oh, well, that would be classically-- if you're -- if what you're referring to is Mead orSkidmore deference, yes. But even --QUESTION: So, it's Skidmore or Chevron, andnothing --MR. LAMKEN: Well --QUESTION: -- nothing else.MR. LAMKEN: Those are the two standards ofdeference with which I'm familiar, and in fact we believethat we'd win under either one. QUESTION: Of course, you claim congressionalapproval too. MR. LAMKEN: Yes. QUESTION: I don't know whether that falls in,technically, a deference category, but it gets you to thesame point. MR. LAMKEN: Well, it -- it certainly addsweight to the agency's view and it may make it so thatthere is only one reasonable construction of a statutethat's ambiguous. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC If there are no further questions, I'd like toreserve the remainder of my time for rebuttal. QUESTION: Mr. -- Ms. Pryor. ORAL ARGUMENT OF KATHRYN L. PRYORON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTMS. PRYOR: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it pleasethe Court:This case is governed by the plain language ofthe statutes, the language of the disability definition,which is the primary focus of the first issue presented,and the language of the trial work period and entitlementstatutes, which are the primary focus of the second issuepresented. The plain language of the statutes and the earlylegislative history demonstrate that from the inception ofthe disability program, Congress has balanced its desireto restrict payment of benefits to only those with long-term severe impairments with its intention to encouragedisabled persons to try to work. The Commissioner'spolicy, in sharp contrast, ignores the work incentiveprong of Congress' careful balancing act, focusing only onthe desire to restrict payment of benefits even to thosewho suffer with clearly disabling impairments if theymanage to attempt to work with great courage anddetermination and, despite continuing severe impairment, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC within months of the onset of their disability. QUESTION: Ms. Pryor, what -- what time limit doyou pick? I mean, suppose the person has a disabilitythat indeed is expected to last more than months but itonly has caused him to black out and be incapable ofworking for minute. MS. PRYOR: Your Honor, I believe that --QUESTION: Does that -minute blackout entitlehim to come under the program? MS. PRYOR: No, Your Honor. QUESTION: All right. What about a week? MS. PRYOR: The entitlement statute I believeshows that a person must be under a disability during the-month waiting period. So, they must have a conditionwhich is severe enough to prevent substantial gainfulactivity.QUESTION: Excuse me. I just didn't hear you.During the time of --MS. PRYOR: During the -month waiting period.QUESTION: During the -month.QUESTION: During the entire months --MS. PRYOR: Yes, Your Honor. QUESTION: -- the disability must -- mustcontinue.MS. PRYOR: Yes, Your Honor. And if -- and if th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC it continues beyond that, then they would then be entitledto benefits.QUESTION: What establishes that? Whatestablishes the months as -- as --MS. PRYOR: The entitlement statute, Your Honor,which is set out at (a) --QUESTION: What -- what's the section? (a).MS. PRYOR: (a), which is found at -- on pagea and a. And that entitlement statute says thatyou're entitled for each month, beginning with the firstmonth --QUESTION: Where are you reading from on a?MS. PRYOR: I'm sorry. I'm reading at page aafter it says that every individual who is insured andmeets these criteria shall be entitled to a disabilityinsurance benefit --QUESTION: What part of the page? What part ofthe page a?MS. PRYOR: I'm sorry. The beginning, rightafter D.QUESTION: Thank you. MS. PRYOR: Shall be entitled to a disabilityinsurance benefit for each month beginning with the firstmonth after his waiting period. So -- and the -- and thewaiting period is defined on page a at as the waiting th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC period means the earliest period of consecutive calendarmonths throughout which an individual has been under adisability. So, I believe that the entitlement statute doesrequire that the person be under a disability, be -- haveboth the impairment and an impairment at such level ofseverity throughout those months. Beyond the months,they are entitled to a benefit for each month beginningwith the first month they satisfy all criteria ofentitlement. QUESTION: So, that would be the sixth monthevery time. If that's --MS. PRYOR: Yes, Your Honor. QUESTION: And if you started in -- in month -- let's take this case. The man did engage insubstantial gainful activity for years. Is that right?MS. PRYOR: Yes, ma'am. QUESTION: So, it starts months after he hasbeen disabled and it continues until when?MS. PRYOR: Your Honor, because the trial workperiod statute dictates that a person is entitled to atrial work period beginning in the first month he'sentitled to benefits, he would be entitled to benefitsbeginning in April , which is when he met all criteriaof entitlement, and he would be entitled to a trial work th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC period beginning that month.QUESTION: That's months. MS. PRYOR: And -- yes, Your Honor. It wouldcontinue for months once he started working and wouldcontinue --then he would get the -- once they determinedat the end of the trial work period, if they've concludedthat his work was continuing and showed he was now able toengage in substantial gainful activity, he could be cutoff after those -- additional months. He would besubject to a -month re-entitlement period for benefitsduring any of those months. QUESTION: But in this -- in this case, when he-- if he -- he starts at month , how many months actuallywould he be getting disability benefits?MS. PRYOR: He returned to substantial -- well,he returned to any work in May of , and he would beentitled to a -month trial work period plus theadditional months, and then for any months during that-month entitlement -- re-entitlement period during whichhe could not work. QUESTION: But just -- just -- if you could justgive me the -- the time frame. We know the starting --the start is -- is it April?MS. PRYOR: Yes, Your Honor. QUESTION: And the end -- the minimum end would th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC be when? MS. PRYOR: It would be -- his actual workstarted end of May/June, then months, plus additional months, so approximately months I believe. QUESTION: So, some considerable time after hehas been restored to substantial gainful activity.MS. PRYOR: Yes, Your Honor. After he --because that gainful activity is covered by a trial workperiod. There is no evidence in this case that Mr.Walton's condition ever medically improved. Therefore,his -- his return to work is protected by the trial workperiod and that work itself cannot be considered asevidence that his disability --QUESTION: But once the period is over, makingsubstantial gainful activity, even though, as you say, hisimpairment continued, he would not be disabled.MS. PRYOR: That's correct. Once his trial workperiod had ended, he would -- he could be cut off subjectto the re-entitlement period. QUESTION: So -- so the basic statutory problem-- I think -- I see where -- you're debating whether youbecome entitled after months or months, and thatseems to turn on the language in a. And the Governmentis reading that -- basically there are many ways of doingit, but they're reading it to say a disability is an th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC inability by reason to -- to engage in any substantialgainful activity by reason of an impairment, which can beexpected to result in death or has lasted, you know, for a-- which can be expected to result in death or which haslasted or can be expected to last. And at this point,they read into it the words: at that level of severity.MS. PRYOR: Yes, Your Honor. QUESTION: And my problem is, to be absolutelyfrank, I think you could read it at that level of severityor you don't have to read it at that level of severity.And the Government --the Social Security Administrationhas read it the Government's way for years, and nobodyhas done a thing about it. And indeed, Congress haspassed some laws that seem to think that's right. And itwould be a major change to jump from months to months. So, there we are. Now, what is your response to that? MS. PRYOR: Well, Your Honor, my response isthat that requires this Court to read language into the --into the definition.QUESTION: We do that all the time. (Laughter.) QUESTION: Language -- of course, you can't read-- you can't --if a statute refers to a bear, you can'tcall it a fish, but if a statute refers to an animal, you th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC certainly can read in that it doesn't mean fleas. I mean,that's common. The statute -- it doesn't say which levelof severity. It doesn't say it, and so you have to makesome assumption. MS. PRYOR: Your Honor, I believe that the --reading the plain language of the statute -- and theCommissioner has conceded this point that the phrase,which can be expected to result in death and which haslasted or can be expected to last for at least months,refers to the impairment, not to the inability to engagein substantial gainful activity. And I think that's theonly logical reading of that, which is what the FourthCircuit found because otherwise you're saying that theinability to engage in substantial gainful activity can --can result in death, and that really doesn't make anysense. To read -- read it as the Commissioner wouldhave you do is -- it seems to me is contrary to the mostfundamental rule of statutory construction, that Congressmust be assumed to mean what it says in the statute andthat when the language of the statute is clear andunambiguous, it should be enforced according to its terms.QUESTION: Ms. Pryor, I think you heard -- Ms.Pryor? MS. PRYOR: I'm sorry. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: The --I asked Mr. Lamken are yousaying, in effect, that the word impairment means adisabling impairment. Because I think you would agree toothat if you had a condition that severely disabled you for week, excruciating back pain -- you couldn't do anything-- but that impairment continued at a less severe levelwell beyond a year -- it didn't impede you fromsubstantial gainful activity -- you would not be disabled.And yet, if you read the statute literally, you would be.MS. PRYOR: Your Honor, I believe theentitlement provisions answer that question. Theimpairment is defined at page a as only being --resulting from anatomical, physiological, or psychologicalabnormalities. It does not contain an element ofinability to engage in substantial gainful activity. Theseverity requirement, on the other hand, does, and that --but that has no durational requirement. QUESTION: The case I gave you it says acondition that can be disabling. It was severe for ashort period of time. MS. PRYOR: I believe that the entitlementstatute requires that it be disabling for at least months, the -- the waiting period. If it is disablingbeyond the months, then the person should be entitled tobenefits for those months while it remains severe. At the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC point that it no longer remains severe, as defined by theact, then that person could be cut off, or if they returnto -- to work and their condition has not improved, theywould be entitled to a trial work period and to benefitsduring that, at the end of which they could be cut off.But I believe the entitlement statute answersthat question by saying you must -- you must have a -- animpairment which is at the disabling level for those months. If it continues at the disabling level beyond the months, you're entitled to benefits for those months.QUESTION: So, for the months, it doesn'tmatter what the level of severity is, but for the months, you must be unable to engage in substantialgainful --MS. PRYOR: That's correct. QUESTION: That's --MS. PRYOR: Yes. QUESTION: What about --what about (f)() --what am I talking about? I'm talking about section(f)() which says that a --QUESTION: What page? QUESTION: Where are you reading from? QUESTION: I'm reading from my own copy of --(Laughter.) QUESTION: Page a. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: It says that a person who has beengetting benefits may be determined not to be entitled tobenefits on the basis of a finding that the physical ormental impairment, on the basis of which such benefits areprovided, has ceased, does not exist, or is not disablingonly if such finding is supported by. And then you godown to (). Substantial evidence which demonstrates thatas determined on the basis of new or improved diagnostictechniques, the individual's impairment or combination ofimpairments is not as disabling as it was considered to beat the time of the most recent prior decision the he orshe was under a disability, and that therefore theindividual is able to engage in substantial gainfulactivity. That seems to imply that the disability consistsof a continuous inability to engage in substantial gainfulactivity, not just a sporadic one. MS. PRYOR: I believe what this was referring toyou, Your Honor, is that the medical improvement must --or in this case the new or improved diagnostic techniques,must result in that person's then -- their condition nolonger being of such severity as to prevent substantialgainful activity.QUESTION: Yes, but all --all it requires --and that therefore the individual is able to engage in th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC substantial gainful activity. That implies that so longas he can engage in some substantial gainful activity,it's -- it wouldn't matter if he were disabledsporadically for a day here or a day there. So, itimplies that it has to be a continuous inability to engagein substantial gainful activity.MS. PRYOR: Your Honor, I believe that thiswhole section refers to termination of disabilitybenefits --QUESTION: I understand. MS. PRYOR: -- for somebody who's already --QUESTION: I understand. It refers totermination. But -- but what would apply to terminationgives you some indication of -- of what -- what theinitial condition is -- is expected to be.MS. PRYOR: Well, the impairment --QUESTION: Namely, a condition of continuousinability to -- to work.MS. PRYOR: There is a severity requirementwhich is part of the -- the definition, yes. And I --Iwould not disagree with that. QUESTION: But -- yes, but -- but you say thatthat severity requirement has nothing to do with duration,and this termination provision suggests that it does havesomething to do with duration -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MS. PRYOR: I don't --QUESTION: -- because if you can engage in anysubstantial gainful activity, you're terminated, assumingthat there's been the improvement in the condition.MS. PRYOR: Your Honor, once there isimprovement and -- and you are now able to engage insubstantial gainful activity, I would agree that you couldbe terminated. It's just that from the outset you do nothave to have an impairment that --that is known to be atthat level of severity for months. A person could havean impairment at that level of severity for months, andin the sixth month, after the waiting period has expired,they become entitled to benefits. And they --theycontinue to be entitled to benefits as long as they havean impairment which is at that level of severity. Onceit's improved, they could be terminated. QUESTION: I think you're right. I guess itdoesn't get you --QUESTION: What if week after the monthperiod a person goes back to work? Would that mean theyjust got benefits for a week? MS. PRYOR: No, Your Honor. If they went backto work and unless their condition had medically improved-- if their condition had medically improved, then yes, Ithink they could be terminated at that point. If their th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC condition had not medically --QUESTION: And the test of medical improvementwould be the ability to go back to work which they couldnot do before. MS. PRYOR: Their ability to go back -- the factthat they had gone back to work would then be protected bya trial work period, and -- and would be -- that -- thefact that they were working would not be able to beconsidered as evidence that they were no longer disabled.However, if they had, in fact, medically improved, theycould be terminated during that trial work period.QUESTION: May I also ask you? I know you thinkit not legally significant, but do you disagree with theGovernment's position that they have consistentlyinterpreted the statute in this way for years?MS. PRYOR: I would agree that they haveconsistently interpreted the statute in this way.QUESTION: And -- and would you agree that theycorrectly describe the legislative deliberations in Ithink it was? But you just say they're totallyirrelevant. MS. PRYOR: Well, Your Honor, I would -- I havereferred to the legislative history in , which is whenthat definition of disability was first defined, and inthat instance, the Senate report delineated two th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC aspects of disability evaluation, a medically determinableimpairment of serious proportions which is expected to beof long continued and indefinite duration and a presentinability to engage in substantial gainful activity byreason of that impairment. And they went on to say that they wanted to beassured -- assured that only long-lasting impairments werecovered and that that provision was not inconsistent withefforts towards rehabilitation because it, quote, refersonly to the duration of the impairment and does notrequire prediction of continued inability to work. Endquote. Those -- that's the first time Congress definedwhat disability is. And it seems to me from the verybeginning, they make clear that they wanted to encouragepeople to work, and -- and they did that by requiring thatthe impairment be expected to last months, but notrequiring that the inability to engage in substantialgainful activity lasts months. I believe Congress' judgment is expressedunambiguously in the statutory language and is -- andthat's confirmed by the legislative history and that itmust not be disturbed simply because the Commissioner'slongstanding policy is at variance with -- with thatpurpose. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC I would acknowledge that legislative history canbe read both ways, but it seems to me that thecontemporaneous legislative history, when Congress firstconsidered the definition of disability, should be givenmore weight and more weight even than that is the expresslanguage of the statute. QUESTION: One other thing I just wonder aboutin a case like this. Has this point been raised before bylitigants such as your client? MS. PRYOR: Yes, Your Honor. Well, the --theissue of entitlement to a trial work period andentitlement to benefits has been decided by five courts ofappeals. QUESTION: The trial work period, but -- but Imean the months versus months as the --MS. PRYOR: The --QUESTION: Has anyone argued this before thiscase?MS. PRYOR: Well, yes, Your Honor. The --theMassachusetts case of White v. Finch considered thisissue. The Alexander case, I will acknowledge, theTenth Circuit case in , went the other direction, and-- and they did find that -- that the months applies tothe impairment at that level of severity. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC But that -- the Tenth Circuit case of Walker v.-- the Walker case in the Tenth Circuit has essentially --it does not explicitly refer to Alexander, but it clearlyfinds that a person is entitled to -- to benefits and to atrial work period even though they do return tosubstantial gainful activity within -- after the -monthwaiting period but within months of onset. So --QUESTION: That refers to question . Right? MS. PRYOR: Yes, Your Honor. QUESTION: And on question , if I understandyou correctly, there is substantial agreement in thecourts of appeals that you're correct? MS. PRYOR: Yes, Your Honor. The five courts ofappeals have -- or four others, other than -- and theWalton case have -- have gone consistent --QUESTION: But that's not the case with question. MS. PRYOR: Question has been ruled ondifferently by different courts.QUESTION: Well, question hinges on question-- if you lose on question , you lose on question ,don't you? MS. PRYOR: No, Your Honor, I don't believe wedo. It's a tougher call. There's no question, but evenif you find that the inability to engage in substantial th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC gainful activity must last months, the language of theentitlement statute and the -- the prospective standardrequired by the entitlement statute, together with theexpectancy language of the disability definition, Ibelieve together require that benefits be paid and that atrial work period be available in this case.QUESTION: Do you agree with the Government'sestimate that -- that if --if you win in this case, thedifference in -- in payouts under this program is going tobe something like $ billion a year? Is it -- is it thatexcessive? MS. PRYOR: No, Your Honor, I don't agree withthat. I believe those are completely unsubstantiatedfigures and that, one, this isn't probably the properforum for that. I believe that should properly beaddressed to Congress. But secondly, I think that that --those figures are based on a number of flawed assumptions.Number one, Mr. Walton has never suggested thathe is entitled to indefinite payment of benefits whileengaged in substantial gainful activity. Once his trialwork period ends, that work can then be considered and hisbenefits would be cut off. In addition, someone whosecondition has medically improved, unlike Mr. Walton, couldbe terminated from benefits prior to that, even before --even during the trial work period. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Secondly, the Government seems to assume thatall those cases which have been denied on durationalgrounds in the past would be approved under the FourthCircuit's ruling. That is far from the case. A personmust still have an impairment which is expected to last months and that impairment must still meet the severityrequirement. Third, there have been acquiescence rulings ineffect for several years, applying the McDonald case inthe Seventh Circuit since , the Walker case in theTenth Circuit since , the Newton case in the EighthCircuit since , and the Salamalekis case in the SixthCircuit since late .QUESTION: Can I ask you before -- can I justask you quickly if you're -- simply repeating these, whichI -- is that on question , am I right in thinking wedon't reach question if you lose on question ?QUESTION: That's what I asked.MS. PRYOR: No, Your Honor, I don't believe thatis the case.QUESTION: And that's what I didn't understand.That's what I thought maybe you answered. But why wouldwe reach it because how --if you're not entitled -- ifyou lose question , the person never became entitled toSocial Security, and the statute says a period of trial th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC work shall begin with the month in which he becomesentitled to Social Security. So, what is exactly -- maybe-- I don't mean to have you repeat yourself if I justmissed it. MS. PRYOR: No, that's okay. QUESTION: But what's the response to that? MS. PRYOR: No, sir. I would -- I would -- youmust be entitled to benefits to be entitled to a trialwork period. However, I don't think that finding that the-month duration requirement applies to the inability toengage in -- in substantial gainful activity means that welose on entitlement. The entitlement --QUESTION: That's what -- but what I didn'tunderstand is if you lose on question and your clienttherefore is not entitled to Social Security, isn't thatthe end of the case? We don't have to reach question .MS. PRYOR: That's what I disagree on. QUESTION: Yes, because --MS. PRYOR: But the definition of disabilityisn't the final part of that because the person can -- ifthe entitlement statute requires a prospectiveconsideration of the criteria of entitlement, every personwho's insured, has not attained retirement age, has filedan application, is under a disability shall be entitled todisability insurance benefits for each month beginning th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC with the first month after his waiting period. At thattime if you look at the requirements of entitlement at thetime of his application in April , he was entitledbeginning that month because he met all otherrequirements --QUESTION: That -- that's --MS. PRYOR: -- and he had a disability even ifyou look at disability as an expectation --QUESTION: Well, but if you lose on question ,he didn't have a disability.MS. PRYOR: If he --even if there was at thattime an expectation that his inability to engage insubstantial gainful activity must last months.QUESTION: I'm going have to -- you're going tohave to write -- somebody is going to have to write this.So -- so suppose the first conclusion is your client neverbecame entitled to Social Security. Never. You have alot of different reasons why he did, but suppose every oneof them is rejected, which maybe they wouldn't be, butassume that. Then do we reach question ? MS. PRYOR: If he's never entitled --QUESTION: Yes, never entitled.MS. PRYOR: -- then I agree he is not entitledto a trial work period.QUESTION: All right. So, we have to decide, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC for whatever theories you may have, whether he is or isnot entitled.MS. PRYOR: My only difference with what you'resaying, Your Honor, is that he can be entitled even if youfind the duration applies to the inability to engage insubstantial gainful activity.QUESTION: That that is because? MS. PRYOR: And that is because the entitlementstatute is a prospective standard from the point ofapplication, and the --QUESTION: Oh, yes, of course. It could turnout that your client, even though he hasn't been disabledat a level of severity for months, nonetheless is aperson that when they decided it I guess, the person -- itcould have been after months, and the decider could havesaid, oh, but it can be -- it will be expected to last atthis level of severity.QUESTION: Well, I guess you take the positionthat it doesn't have to be decided, that the statuteitself says --MS. PRYOR: Thank you. QUESTION: -- the person is entitled at the endof the months.MS. PRYOR: Yes, Your Honor. QUESTION: That's your position. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MS. PRYOR: That is my position. QUESTION: It doesn't require a decision maker.MS. PRYOR: Thank you. QUESTION: But if --but if -- if we determinethat in fact the disability level must be as theGovernment claims, then in a case in which thedetermination is made before the -month period and atthat time the person is back working at a substantiallevel so that the determination is properly made that theperson never qualified, then there would be no reason, ina case like that, ever to proceed to the second question.Isn't that correct?MS. PRYOR: Yes, Your Honor. QUESTION: Okay. QUESTION: May I ask this one question? I justwant to be sure I haven't missed something in theargument. You agree, as I understand it, there is aseverity requirement in the impairment. And what is theseverity requirement? MS. PRYOR: Your Honor, that is set out in(d)() of , which is -- it's found at page a. Andthat provides that an individual shall be determined to beunder a disability only if his physical or mentalimpairment or impairments are of such severity that he'snot only able -- unable to do his past work but can't do th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC other work. The equivalent of that or even a higher standardof that is meeting a listing of impairments, which myclient did, and he -- he met the listing --QUESTION: If I understand you, you're sayingthat the -- that the severity requirement is an inabilityto engage in substantial work.MS. PRYOR: Well, but --yes. And consideringyou can't do your past work or other work considering age,education, and work experience. But another part of that is meeting a listing,which is a higher level, and the listings are defined asthose impairments which are presumed to be -- preventsomeone from being able to engage in any gainful activity,not just substantial gainful activity. My client wasfound twice by the administrative law judge as being --having a listing-level impairment. So, by definition, hemet the severity requirement and he met that at the timeof both hearings, the second of which was more than anda half years after its onset date. QUESTION: It seems to me that I --I reallyhave trouble understanding if there's a severityrequirement measured by inability to work for a period oftime, why that severity requirement wouldn't continue forthe entire period under the statutory definition of th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC impairment. That's what I'm having trouble understanding.MS. PRYOR: Well, first of all, Your Honor, theseverity requirement does not have a durational element toit. There's nothing in that --QUESTION: It doesn't say so, but the -- but thedisability has a durational requirement and it's not adisability unless it's severe enough. MS. PRYOR: Well, the impairment has adurational --QUESTION: Impairment I should say. MS. PRYOR: And -- and there is a separateseverity requirement, but I don't believe that the statutesays that --that it must last at that level of severityfor months. Once you no longer have a severeimpairment, I would agree that you can -- your benefitscan be terminated. But it does not require that -- thatat the outset there must be an expectation that it willpersist at that level of severity for the entire months. And I believe that the legislative history givesthe reason for that. Congress wanted to balance itsdesire to restrict payment of benefits with its desire toencourage people to try to go back to work. TheCommissioner's policy has the opposite effect. It tellspeople stay home for months or at least until your case th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC is adjudicated, before you try to work. I believe that'sa clear disincentive for people like my client who are --who are attempting to work despite the fact that theirimpairment remains severe.QUESTION: Does the record tell us what'shappened to the respondent in the interim? MS. PRYOR: Your Honor, he -- this is not in therecord, but he subsequently reapplied and is on disabilitybenefits based on the subsequent application.There is no question in this case that ClevelandWalton would have been paid disability benefits long agohad he merely stayed home until after his hearing and nottried to work. Instead, he has been penalized for hiscourage and his motivation in trying to work despite hiscontinuing listing-level impairment. The Commissioner's policy violates the expresslanguage of the statute. It is contrary to thelegislative history of the disability program and tolongstanding agency regulations. And it has beenrepeatedly rejected by courts of appeals and districtcourts throughout the Nation. The Commissioner's policyis also contrary to sound public policy concerns which areare reflected both in the legislative history and in thecase law. Accordingly, the Commissioner's unlawful and th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ill-advised policy should be rejected so that other highlymotivated disabled persons like Cleveland Walton will notbe penalized in the future for their good faith efforts towork. I'd be happy to address any other questions youmight have. QUESTION: Thank you, Ms. Pryor. Mr. Lamken, you have minutes remaining.REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF JEFFREY A. LAMKENON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERMR. LAMKEN: I would like to begin by addressingthe -month trial work -- excuse me -- the -month waitingperiod. And it's important to emphasize that for a verylarge and important component of the Social Securityprogram, the SSI program, the Supplemental Security Incomedisability program, there is no -month waiting period.So, for anyone who's applying for SSI disability income,they -- that person, under respondent's and the court ofappeals' interpretation, would be entitled to benefits fora very brief period of inability to work so long as theunderlying medical condition, such as asthma or arthritis,can be expected to last or has lasted months. It is inview of the structure of the act, including thecontinuation of the payments for months after thedisability ceases, hard to believe that that was what th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Congress had in mind. Second, I should emphasize that the -monthwaiting period isn't part of the definition of disability.What it is is it operates like a deductible. It providesa period of time during which the individual bears theburden of their disability themselves and saves theGovernment the --saves the Government money that wouldhave to be paid for that individual. But it does notdetermine what is a disability. It only determines whatperiod of disability will be paid for and compensated bythe Government. I'd like to also turn to mention for a momentthe legislative history. The legislative history uponwhich respondent relies is for a separate program enacted years before the disability program at issue here. Thedisability program issued in . When Congress enactedit, it clearly understood that the inability to engage insubstantial gainful activity, the disability itself, wasgoing to have to last the requisite duration and notmerely the medical -- not merely the medical condition.And when Congress changed the duration from long,continued, and indefinite, which was the original term, to months, it specifically understood that the -monthperiod applied to the impairment at a disabling level ofseverity. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC And the -- the Senate report, which is quoted onpage of our brief, makes that lucid. It states thatthe act, as amended, would provide for disability benefitsfor an insured worker who has been or can be expected tobe totally disabled throughout a continuous period of calendar months, and a -month period was rejectedspecifically because it would provide benefits for short-term disabilities. Finally, in terms of incentives, the incentiveto return to work before there is an actual disability isproperly addressed by the Commissioner's unsuccessful workattempt regulations. In addition, the court of appeals' constructionis an overbroad response that actually deters returning towork because it would provide benefits not merely to thoselike Mr. Walton who have a long-term impairment thatbriefly disables them and then heroically return to work,but also those who have a long-term impairment thatbriefly disables them and do not actually return to work.The vast majority of applicants who seek benefits do notreturn to work, and those -- and those individuals wouldreceive benefits despite an ability to return to work andtheir failure to do so. If there are no further questions. CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: Thank you, Mr. Lamken. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC The case is submitted. (Whereupon, at : p.m., the case in theabove-entitled matter was submitted.) th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC 