 IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XOWASSO INDEPENDENT SCHOOL DISTRICT NO. I-, AKA OWASSO PUBLIC SCHOOLS, ET AL., Petitioners :::::v. : No. -KRISTJA J. FALVO, PARENT AND NEXT FRIEND OF HER MINOR CHILDREN, ELIZABETH PLETAN, PHILIP PLETAN AND ERICA PLETAN :::::- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XWashington, D.C.Tuesday, November , The above-entitled matter came on for oralargument before the Supreme Court of the United States at: a.m.APPEARANCES:JERRY A. RICHARDSON, ESQ., Tulsa, Oklahoma; on behalf ofthe Petitioners. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC APPEARANCES:EDWIN S. KNEEDLER, ESQ., Deputy Solicitor General,Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on behalf ofthe United States, as amicus curiae, supporting thePetitioners.WILFRED K. WRIGHT, JR., Claremore, Oklahoma; on behalf ofthe Respondent. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC C O N T E N T SORAL ARGUMENT OF JERRY A. RICHARDSON, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioners ORAL ARGUMENT OFEDWIN S. KNEEDLER, ESQ.On behalf of the United States, as amicus curiae,supporting the Petitioners ORAL ARGUMENT OFWILFRED K. WRIGHT, JR., ESQ.On behalf of the Respondent PAGE th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC P R O C E E D I N G S(: a.m.)CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: We'll hear argumentnext in Number -, Jerry -- correction, OwassoIndependent School District No. I-, also known as theOwasso Public Schools, v. Kristja J. Falvo.Mr. Richardson.ORAL ARGUMENT OF JERRY A. RICHARDSONON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERSMR. RICHARDSON: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court:The issue presented by this case is whetherCongress, in enacting the Family Educational Rights andPrivacy Act, intended to prohibit the common andlongstanding practice of peer grading of routine homeworkpapers, quizzes, and tests. Congress did not intend FERPAto apply to such routine classroom activities, becauseCongress was concerned only with information that mighthave a long-term negative impact on a student's academicor career opportunities.QUESTION: Mr. --QUESTION: Did you take the position in thecourt of appeals that there is no private contract?MR. RICHARDSON: We did not raise that issue inthe court of appeals, Your Honor. No, we did not. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: The court of appeals discussed it.MR. RICHARDSON: The court of appeals raised itsua sponte, and it has been raised in amicus briefssubmitted -- in fact, three amici have discussed it.QUESTION: Why didn't you raise the issue? Whyisn't that more important than what you did raise?MR. RICHARDSON: Candidly, Your Honor, we didn'traise it for a number of reasons. Number , because inthe district court there was a Fourteenth Amendment claimwhich clearly was actionable under section .Number , quite honestly we believe the meritsargument regarding FERPA was stronger than the section argument. Remember --QUESTION: Well, I just don't know if it's agood practice for you to force us to reach an issue youthink is important if there's no cause of action anyway. That just doesn't seem to me an orderly way to proceed.MR. RICHARDSON: Well, in hindsight I wouldagree with the Court that we should have approached it adifferent way. Please recall, however, that at the timethis case was filed, at the time the court of -- at thetime the district court entered its decision, and at thetime the briefs were submitted in the Tenth Circuit, theChristiansen decision had not come down. We did not havethe benefit -- we were under the impression, I should say, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC that we -- that the family policy compliance officer'sletter would be accorded Chevron deference, as thedistrict court did.We did not know that the Court was going todecide Christiansen and hold that such opinion letterswere not entitled to such deference. We made a tacticaldecision to focus on the merits rather than focus --QUESTION: Well --MR. RICHARDSON: -- on the aspect of it.QUESTION: -- you also certainly had somejustification on the private cause of action. Seeing anumber of decisions from this Court which have come out to one way and then to the other way --MR. RICHARDSON: That's very true, Your Honor.QUESTION: -- you're not sure that you're goingto prevail on that.MR. RICHARDSON: That's very true, Your Honor. Both the decisions of this Court, with all due respect,are sometimes difficult for a practicing attorney todiscern a clear line of --QUESTION: They're hard for us, too.(Laughter.) MR. RICHARDSON: And the other factor I wouldsay is that the two decisions that the Tenth Circuit citedfrom other courts of appeals, the only two decisions that th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC we were aware of from the Second Circuit, the Fay v. SouthColonie School District decision, and from the FifthCircuit, Tarka v. Cunningham, both of those courts ofappeals had held that FERPA was actionable under , soagain, we made a strategic decision --QUESTION: Well, what if we think there's a realproblem with that notion under this scheme, where thewhole object was to have it administratively determinedand it was funding mechanism, and under the act, thepenalty for not following it is a cut-off of funding. Now, what if we're quite concerned about that.MR. RICHARDSON: Oh, I --QUESTION: Do we send it back and let it bebriefed and argued below?MR. RICHARDSON: No, I don't believe so, YourHonor. The Tenth Circuit did rule on it, and we not onlyhave -- three amici in support of the petitionersaddressed it. Respondent herself did address it in herbrief. The only party that really hasn't briefed theissue is petitioners. We would be the only one that wouldsuffer any prejudice. We have endorsed the positionargued by the amici in the three briefs that have raisedthe issue.I believe it's perfectly appropriate for theCourt to decide that, and I believe that the Court -- that th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC the Court's decisions do indicate that FERPA is notactionable under . If you focus on the -- go back andlook at the language of the statute, of course, which isthe ultimate issue, there is no rights creating languagein FERPA the way there is, for instance, in title , thatthe Court focused on in Canon.Also, this is a Spending Clause case. There isno -- the Spending Clause, as the Court has indicatedrepeatedly, is in the nature of a contract and there is nounambiguous indication here that Congress --QUESTION: You didn't raise this in yourpetition for certiorari, though, did you?MR. RICHARDSON: We didn't raise it -- no, YourHonor, we didn't. We didn't raise it in the petition forcertiorari because we had not raised it in the court belowand, frankly, we believed that the odds of persuading theCourt to grant certiorari on an issue that we had notraised and briefed below were not very good and, again,our focus had always been on the merits of the case, and Ibelieve we should win on the merits, but I also believethat section is not -- does not provide a cause ofaction under FERPA.FERPA says -- it uses the language, no fundsshall be available to an educational agency or institutionthat has a policy or practice of allowing the disclosure th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC of education records. That is clearly talking about asystematic practice on the part of an educational agencyor institution.If a section remedy were allowed, then whatabout an individual teacher who, in violation of thedistrict's own policy or practice -- the district, say,has a policy that we will not release it, yet anindividual teacher makes a deliberate choice to releasethe information. Under that teacher would have to beheld liable, it would seem to me, even though the districthad done exactly what Congress commanded. The districthad enacted a policy saying, don't do that, so thatclearly militates against a cause of action.In addition, FERPA --QUESTION: Do you know anything about how thisact is enforced on the Federal side? Have there been anyfund terminations, because the only thing in the statuteitself is fund termination, isn't that right?MR. RICHARDSON: That is correct, Your Honor,and I'm not aware of any decisions. There is certainlynothing in the record to indicate that there's ever been afunding -- well, I may have overspoken. I do not recallfrom the record. There might be something in the lodgingof those extensive letters from the FPCO, but I do notrecall, and do not -- cannot represent to the Court that th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC there's anything in the record regarding there ever havingbeen a funding cut-off.QUESTION: Well, I guess we are taking you awayfrom the question on which we granted certiorari.As I understand the position of the respondenthere, and tell me if I'm incorrect, if the respondent iscorrect, the teacher would have to keep a record of all ofthese quizzes as part of the permanent record, is that thenecessary result of the respondent's argument?MR. RICHARDSON: The respondent seems to takethe position, which is contrary to what the Tenth Circuitsaid -- the respondent seems to take the position thatonly records, only grades or scores that are recorded inthe teacher's grade book are education records. The TenthCircuit clearly said that's not the case.The Tenth Circuit clearly said, even if thegrade is never recorded in a teacher's grade book, themere fact that the teacher receives it and uses it forsome purpose, maybe even just to evaluate her own teachingperformance, and determine whether the class is ready tomove on to the next lesson, that makes it an educationrecord.Respondents have backed away from that. Theyargue in their brief at least, or she argues in her briefat least that it has to be recorded in the teacher's grade th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC book, but we believe that even that is a far more broaddefinition of education records than what Congress plainlysays in the statute. The statute defines educationrecords with a two-part definition. It's those records,files, documents, or other materials that containpersonally identifiable information and are maintained byan educational agency or institution, or by a personacting for an educational agency or institution.Now, maintained has to have some substantivemeaning, because it's half of the definition. Clearly,homework papers are personally identifiable. There's nodoubt about that. But if maintained doesn't mean anythingmore than what the Tenth Circuit said it meant, simplypossessed by a teacher for some brief period of time, thenthat's really writing that word out of the definition. Any document that comes across a teacher's desk would bean education record.In fact, chalkboard work would have to be aneducation record. If a teacher asks a student to come tothe chalkboard, do a math problem, that's personallyidentifiable information. The entire class can see thisstudent working a math problem. That math problem ismaintained on the chalkboard until the teacher directs astudent either to erase it, or erases it herself, orhimself. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: What's your definition of maintain,what, a week, a month?MR. RICHARDSON: I don't think that --QUESTION: Make me an offer. What's your --(Laughter.)MR. RICHARDSON: Your Honor, I think that whatCongress is getting at with the word maintained, it goesback to what I said in the opening statement, which is,information that could have a long-term effect on thestudent's career. I think Congress was talking about --and the legislative history bears this out. I know YourHonor is not particularly persuaded by that --QUESTION: Some of my colleagues like thatstuff.(Laughter.)MR. RICHARDSON: -- by that argument, butCongress was concerned about things that would have along-term effect.What I would suggest the Court focus on, is thisthe kind of document that's going to be looked at by acollege admissions officer? Is this the kind of documentthat's going to be looked at by a potential employer, or agovernmental agency at some point down the road?QUESTION: Is there a difference between yourposition and -- the Government said, it means, educational th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC records means institutional records.MR. RICHARDSON: No.QUESTION: The kind that would be in theprincipal's office and not in the teacher's drawer.MR. RICHARDSON: No. No, Your Honor. Ourposition and the Government's, with that regard I believethe Government's current position, as reflected in thebrief of the United States, are consistent. I don'tthink --QUESTION: It's not been the position that theGovernment, that this FPCO has taken consistently, becausewasn't there -- didn't they say that the teacher's gradebook --record?MR. RICHARDSON: Yes.QUESTION: -- did count as an educationalMR. RICHARDSON: Yes. The FPCO had previouslytaken a much broader interpretation of education records,and had taken the position which essentially seems now tobe adopted by the respondent, that once the teachermain -- once the teacher receives possession of the grade,or the score, it becomes an education record. The UnitedStates has disavowed that position and said that isclearly more broad than what the -- but the key point --QUESTION: But if your definition is correct, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC and it's that limited that it's only the stuff the schoolkeeps that will go on into the permanent record of thestudent, what would be the reason for that exception thatthe statute contains for, you know, personal notes that ateacher makes? You wouldn't need that exception. Thatstuff never goes down to the central office, much less iskept for, you know, for future reference.MR. RICHARDSON: Well, not necessarily, YourHonor, and that -- you're referring, I believe, to thesole possession notes exception --QUESTION: Sole --MR. RICHARDSON: -- but that's not limited tograde books. In fact, that --QUESTION: Where is it? Can we look at that? What's the section?MR. RICHARDSON: Yes, Your Honor. That'ssection (a)()(B)(i).QUESTION: Where is it, in the briefs?QUESTION: Appendix page of your brief?MR. RICHARDSON: Yes. Yes. I'm sorry. B,capital (B), then small (i), the term education recordsdoes not include -- there's nothing in this definitionabout grade books.The reference to the grade books, and it'sreally not a reference to grade books, it's a reference to th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC record books, is from the legislative history, where theCourt -- where the Congress said, this exception was meantto apply to things used as memory aids. I would arguethat a grade book is not something that is intended as amemory aid.QUESTION: But my point is, you wouldn't needthat exception.MR. RICHARDSON: Well --QUESTION: If -- that -- I mean, that exceptionsuggests that other things that are only -- only held inthe sole possession of the maker --MR. RICHARDSON: I disagree that you would notneed that.QUESTION: -- could be within the statute. Whywould you need that exception?MR. RICHARDSON: Well, for instance, adocument -- a counseling record, for instance, perhaps thestudent had experienced some emotional problems, orsomething --QUESTION: Right.MR. RICHARDSON: -- that has come to theattention of a counselor. The counselor writes aconfidential memorandum to her permanent file. That is aninstitutional record. It's not something that's going tobe thrown away, but it's also, as long as the counselor th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC doesn't put that document, that memorandum in theinstitution records, or doesn't show it to another person,that's a sole possession notes exception, and would not --QUESTION: And you think that's the kind ofthing that would come within your definition of permanentrecords, the kind of things that go on to collegeadmissions offices, and so forth? That's what I thoughtyou were saying.MR. RICHARDSON: Well, I think that's --QUESTION: But now you're saying, even thenotes, personal notes kept by a counselor come -- wouldcome within this statute but for that exception, right?MR. RICHARDSON: Well, but for that exception. I think that's why the exception is there, is to keepmaterials like that from coming into the possession --QUESTION: Exactly.MR. RICHARDSON: -- because materials like thatare maintained by an educational agency or institution. They are a -- counselors that have a record of a studentwith emotional problems --QUESTION: So are a teacher's grade books. Whyin that respect is a teacher's grade book different fromthe counselor's notes?MR. RICHARDSON: I believe because a grade bookis, in my opinion, Your Honor, more of an evaluation th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC instrument rather than a record. A transcript shows whatthe student earned in a grade, or in a group of gradesduring the course of his academic career. A grade book ismore than simply a dry record of the percentages that astudent achieved during his time in his class. Forinstance, during a relevant grading period a student mightstart out doing very average C work. The student thenmight near the end of the grading period suddenly get it,and start doing B and A work.The teacher would, I think any teacher inAmerica would look at a grade book containing thoserecords and would not simply go, okay, the total averagefor this grading period is a ., he or she gets a C. the teacher would look at the improvement shown in thestudent's performance and would in all likelihood round itup and give the student a B. The grade book is anevaluation instrument. It is not simply a collection ofrecords.QUESTION: And the counselor's notes aren't? The counselor's notes aren't?MR. RICHARDSON: Well, that argument might verywell apply to counselor's notes as well.QUESTION: I mean, that's the problem. Yournotion of what are records maintained just does not squarewith the existence of that exception. I mean, sometimes th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Congress does more harm than good by putting in anexception, because the exception suggests that if it hadnot been there, the stuff would have been covered. MaybeCongress didn't want this stuff to be covered, but --MR. RICHARDSON: Well, I think that's analternative possibility, Your Honor, is that it's a beltand suspenders approach that Congress never intended gradebooks to be covered, but just in case somebody happened tobe inclined to read them that way, we're going to put thisexception in as well.QUESTION: We usually don't interpret statutesthat way.MR. RICHARDSON: Well, I can understand --QUESTION: You started out by referring tomaintain as implying some significant period.MR. RICHARDSON: Yes.QUESTION: And it would be consistent with thatargument that you say, well, a teacher's grade book iskept for the year, but it doesn't become normally part ofthe institutional records of the school, so it's notmaintained for a substantial enough period of time toqualify, whereas -- and I just don't know factually aboutthis -- maybe the guidance counselor's records are simplykept forever. I don't know. I mean, is that kind of adurational criterion something you want to stand on here? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. RICHARDSON: Not in a -- no, not a puredurational criteria. I don't think that is the key. Again, many grade books are not -- I don't think Congressmeant to draw a line and say, okay, you keep it months,it's maintained, if you keep it months and weeks and days it's not maintained. I don't think Congress intendedto do that, and I'm not asking the Court to do that.I think Congress again intended to get atrecords that are, as a practical matter, maintained over along period of time that are institutional records.QUESTION: But what is the definition ofmaintain, then, that you're using?MR. RICHARDSON: The definition of maintain thatI would ask the Court to adopt is its common meaning, topreserve, to retain.QUESTION: Yes, but don't -- doesn't that forceus into some kind of a durational -- and I'm not sayingthis is an objection to your argument, particularly, but Imean, doesn't this force us into some kind of a durationalcriterion? The record of the quiz which student Acorrects the student B and calls out to the teacher, thenumber that student B puts on top of the quiz is a recordfor a short period of time.MR. RICHARDSON: But it's not the kind --QUESTION: I mean, something is recorded, and th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC you're saying, well, sure, they can't be getting at that,but if they're not getting at that, then it's either gotto be for one of two reasons, either the kid who does thecorrection isn't a person who maintains, who makes arecord by definition --MR. RICHARDSON: Correct.QUESTION: -- or a record is something that hasgot to be maintained longer than the period that it takesfor some kid to call a number out to the teacher, which isa durational criteria.MR. RICHARDSON: That's true, and that's thesame reason that a chalkboard, work on a chalkboard wouldnot be maintained in the meaning of FERPA, even though itmight be up there not only for a minute or two -- I mean,in some college --QUESTION: May I ask you --MR. RICHARDSON: -- courses you may havechalkboard work that's up there for a week or more.QUESTION: -- do you concede, or do you not,that the announcement by one student of another student'sgrades within the classroom and not outside the classroomis a release of information within (B)(i)?MR. RICHARDSON: No, absolutely not.QUESTION: Because?MR. RICHARDSON: Because it's not an education th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC record. You can only have --QUESTION: Assuming it was an educationalrecord, would you say that it's a release when it'srevealed by one student to another within the classroom?MR. RICHARDSON: No, I don't believe -- in thecontext of pure grading, it would make no sense to saythat one student, that it's not a release if the studentgrading the paper records the grade. I mean, in thatcontext, the Tenth Circuit's analysis would be right.If it is an education record, then the fact thatone student sees it is just as damming as the fact thatthe entire class sees it, it seems to me, but it's not aneducation record, therefore there's no question ofrelease.The other point I would make, going back to thegrade book --QUESTION: I'm slightly worried about that,because suppose that -- I take it attendance records arealso -- they probably are maintained, and they arerecords, aren't they?MR. RICHARDSON: Attendance -- well, again Iwould say that attendance records are not the kind ofinformation --QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. Richardson.Mr. Kneedler, we'll hear from you. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ORAL ARGUMENT OF EDWIN S. KNEEDLERON BEHALF OF THE UNITED STATES, AS AMICUS CURIAE,SUPPORTING THE PETITIONERSMR. KNEEDLER: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court:The Family Educational Rights and Privacy Actdoes not prohibit the common classroom practice of onestudent grading another student's paper, or other commonclassroom and teaching practices. FERPA regulates therecords maintained by an institution, not the homework andclasswork of students. Congress did not intend for FERPAto intrude into the day-to-day activities of hundreds ofthousands of classrooms across the Nation, or the way inwhich teachers conduct the educational process in thoseclassrooms, or the way in which students interact witheach other.QUESTION: Does the act cover a teacher's gradebook that she keeps during the term?MR. KNEEDLER: It addresses the grade book, inour view, by including it -- we think ordinarily it wouldcome within the sole possession exception in the act.Now, I think it's important to recognize thateven a grade book -- there may be no one uniform practiceabout the way a grade book is handled. It could be that aparticular school would regard the grade book as an th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC official school record from the outset, where theprincipal always has access to it, and the teacher isreally maintaining a record on behalf of the institutionin keeping the grade book.You could have other school systems in which thegrade book is essentially used by and for the future as amemory jog, and all that she ever discloses to the frontoffice is the semester grade. In that event, we thinkthat the grade book would fall within the sole possessionexception, so that this is one of the things about FERPA,is that it addresses the situation in which actual record-keeping practices may vary, or let me change that, actualpedagogical practices may vary widely from school districtto school district, and that's why we think importantlythis act did not enter the classroom by addressing the wayteachers handle papers, give feedback to students, havestudents grade each other's --QUESTION: What about posting the results of theexam, the big exam, mid-term exam, and the student poststhe results on the board.MR. KNEEDLER: I think under the position we'veespoused here, that would not be a violation of the act. FPCO has taken the position in the past that it would be. I think it would depend, though, or may depend on the wayin which the grades were assembled. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC I think if the teacher or professor, let's say,in college, the only grades probably ever, ever assembledor marked down for a college course may be the final examgrade. The professor may have a grade sheet, a roster inwhich the professor marks down the grade for everyone inthat class and sends it to the registrar, and from thatlist puts a list of final grades for the course. I thinkat that point, the fact that the grades would be derivedfrom something that would be regarded as an institutionalrecord, in that instance I think the posting of the gradesmay well be a violation.QUESTION: But if he posts it before he sends iton to the administration office --MR. KNEEDLER: If it's posted -- and this maysound technical, but this is where the two categories wethink intersect. If a grade is divulged from the paper,he takes the grade book and puts A or B or C on the paper,we don't think that the student work itself is aninstitutional record, and it's not --QUESTION: But you're also, I think, saying thatthe disclosure has got to be of the record, not merely ofinformation that may ultimately end up in a record?MR. KNEEDLER: That's exactly true, and thereare analogous situations in which that's true, forinstance the attorney-client privilege, that the attorney th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC can't disclose something that he's learned from theclient, but that doesn't mean that the same information inthe possession of the client is privileged.QUESTION: How is this -- the more I hear, I --there used to be schools in any case that would say, thefollowing percent of the class graduates with honors,the next percent, okay, and sort of honors, and thelast percent, well, they graduated, didn't they. Imean, they didn't put it quite like that, but it was allpublic, in the newspaper.MR. KNEEDLER: Yes.QUESTION: Now, is that all forbidden now?MR. KNEEDLER: No. Quite aside from the issuein this case, this statute contains an exception forwhat's called directory information, which includes commoninformation about a student, the fact of their attendance,et cetera, and that includes honors awarded to a student. That information can be released. The school district orhigher education institution has to announce a policy.QUESTION: What are we dealing with here? Youdon't have much time, and I am concerned. Are we dealing,do you think, just with the student grading and theknowledge obtained thereby, or are we dealing with theteacher's grade book, or both?MR. KNEEDLER: All that is strictly presented in th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC this case is the practice of one student grading another'spaper before the teacher has gotten the papers themselvesor entered them in the grade book.QUESTION: And as to that, what is your succinctexplanation of why it's not covered by the statute?MR. KNEEDLER: There's no educational recordmaintained by the school.QUESTION: Because it isn't maintained, orbecause it isn't a record?MR. KNEEDLER: Well, whether it's maintained ispart of the definition of educational record. Aneducational record is a record or document containinginformation directly related to the student that ismaintained by the school and, in our view, maintained inthat situation means maintained as an institutionalrecord, and we think that the act generally draws adistinction between the institutional records and theclassroom records of the teacher, and I --QUESTION: Mr. Kneedler, do you have a positionon the threshold question? Is there a claim for relief, aprivate claim for relief?MR. KNEEDLER: We do not have a position onthat. That was not presented in the petition andtherefore we did not address it in our brief, and underthis Court's Air Couriers decision, the existence of a th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC cause of action is not jurisdictional and may be assumed.We -- I would point out, though, that theability of the Department of Education to cut off funds isnot the sort of factor that has in other situations beenthought to be sufficient to preclude a cause ofaction. In Blessing v. Freestone and other cases, thisCourt has said that that is a different sort of remedy anddoes not preclude a private right of action.QUESTION: Mr. Kneedler, you said it doesn'tinclude the teacher's classroom records. Why, by reasonof that exception that we were talking about earlier --MR. KNEEDLER: Well --QUESTION: -- the sole possession exception?MR. KNEEDLER: Two different questions. One iswhether it covers the student's work, and we think thatthat --QUESTION: Yes, I understand that.MR. KNEEDLER: That that's not covered.By teacher's records, if you mean the gradebook, yes, we think that that would fall under the -- or,what we commonly call grade book, some way in which theteacher keeps track of the student's progress during themarking period or --QUESTION: It's covered by the sole possessionexception? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. KNEEDLER: That's correct.QUESTION: Which means it would have beenembraced by the statute, but for that.MR. KNEEDLER: That's probably true, but it's --one thing to bear in mind here is, this act was passed inone form early in . Some difficulties wereidentified, and it was amended and revised and elaboratedupon later in , and there is a description by SenatorsPell and Buckley describing the original version of theact, in which they indicated that personal records werenot the sort of thing that was intended to be included,because the act then used the definition of officialrecords that were intended to be for school use, and theysaid that these informal notes, and I think teacher noteswould be include din that, were not intended to beincluded in the act to begin with.So I think that there is a way in which thatgives emphasis to something that may well have beenexcluded anyway, but they do fall within the coverage ofthe act, because the act was revised to meet some concernsthat had been raised by local school districts.I did want to point out two things in responseto Justice Kennedy's question. This act does not requirea school district to retain any records. It may destroyrecords at any time. It only addresses rights of parents th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC while the records are actually retained.The other point is, we don't think that there isanything talismanic about the duration --QUESTION: But they don't have to be retainedfor days or anything?MR. KNEEDLER: If a request is made for themthey have to be retained until the request is resolved, arequest to inspect them, but if the parent or student,adult student has not requested it, nothing in this actrequires the school district to keep them.We don't think that duration is dispositive. Wethink because the act was designed -- we point this out atpages and of our brief, and page of our brief --was intended to reach records that the school was going tobe -- use to make decisions about the student in aninstitutional way, institutional decisions about thestudent, which we think are different from what goes on inthe classroom in the day-to-day learning experience, andso we think that that could include records, or somematerials that are kept by a principal that wouldn'tnecessarily go into the permanent record, but would bepart of the school's overall supervision of the studentfor that school year, so we do not think that the durationof the period is dispositive.Having said that, what gave rise to this act was th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC concerns about the sorts of things that were in thepermanent institutional records of the student, the sortsof things that would follow the student, or that lawenforcement officers or probation officers or others wouldhave free access to when parents did not, and there wasconcern that there might be irrelevant information, orinaccurate or anecdotal information in records that wouldmake a real difference in the child's life, and that'swhat this act is directed towards.CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: Thank you, Mr.Kneedler.Mr. Wright, we'll hear from you.ORAL ARGUMENT OF WILFRED K. WRIGHT, JR.ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTMR. WRIGHT: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court:The Family Educational Rights and Privacy Actwas drafted by Senator Buckley, also known as the BuckleyAmendment. Senator Buckley in stated that mostconscientious teachers would have no problem gaining theconsent of a parent, provided the teacher has demonstratedthe worth of his proposal. In other words, SenatorBuckley did intend the Family Educational Rights andPrivacy Act to reach out into the record keeping process th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC that included the teacher's work or the -- or the recordsthat were being maintained by the teacher. What the petitioners are requesting of thisCourt is to have unfettered and unshackled right todisclose exam grades to whomever they choose. If in fact,only the cumulative or the permanent or the transcriptrecord is the only record that is an education record,then a teacher like Justice Scalia mentioned could postthe exam scores in the local newspaper, if she wanted to,prior to handing them in to the central custodian. Such aresult was not intended --QUESTION: Well, but has that ever happened? Had any teacher ever posted exam scores in the localnewspaper? MR. WRIGHT: Under the facts of this particularcase --QUESTION: No. I say, was there any -- anyincident of that sort that had ever been called to theattention of Congress? I mean, was that really whatCongress was trying to prevent? MR. WRIGHT: Not that particular action, butthat would be a consequence of -- of finding that theeducation records would be just a permanent --QUESTION: Well, it would be -- the consequenceyou describe would allow a teacher to do something that no th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC teacher has ever done. MR. WRIGHT: Contrary, Your Honor, I believethat the teachers, not only in this particular case, butin many cases, especially in the -- the Krebs v. theRutgers University case, were disclosing exam scores --QUESTION: They were posting them in newspapers?MR. WRIGHT: No. They weren't posting them innewspapers.QUESTION: Well, that was what I asked you aboutbecause you mentioned it. MR. WRIGHT: That's correct, Your Honor. Theyweren't posting them in newspapers. QUESTION: If -- even if we -- we take the --the expansive definition that you would use, what is yourresponse to the point that came out in -- in my exchangewith Mr. Kneedler, that the -- that the mere disclosure ofinformation, which may ultimately end up in a record, buta disclosure before that information is, in fact, recordedwould not be prohibited by the act?MR. WRIGHT: Here we have a situation, the factsof this case, that happened simultaneously. The teacheris gathering --QUESTION: Well, do -- I don't want to cut offyour answer there. But as -- as a general proposition --it may not apply here, but as a general proposition, do th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC you agree with Mr. Kneedler? MR. WRIGHT: If it doesn't make it into theteacher's maintenance of the record.QUESTION: No. I think the assumption is it maywell make it into. It simply hasn't made it into therecord yet. At that point, before it makes it into therecord, is the disclosure a violation of -- of the act?MR. WRIGHT: I believe that the teacher isdisclosing the information that she is intending tocollect. It would be no different than a doctor sittingfive patients down in front of them, having them exchangetheir diagnostic test, and saying, please call out thatinformation to me. QUESTION: Well, yes --MR. WRIGHT: That would not be permitted. QUESTION: -- we -- we don't know whetherthere's a statute that covers that, and we've got astatute here. You're saying that the words of the statutewould -- would make it an -- a violation to disclose theinformation that may ultimately be recorded, even beforeit is in fact recorded and made part of a record, as youdefine record.MR. WRIGHT: No. As I define record, here wehave a gathering of the information, and that's as far as th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC I'm going. And that is, the teacher is gathering theinformation. She is collecting it. This whole process issimultaneous. They're having the students call out thegrades. Ms. Falvo's children were having to call out thegrades without her consent. QUESTION: Is the calling out a record? What --what does the record consist of? MR. WRIGHT: That's gathering the information. The teacher writing --QUESTION: What -- what is the definition ofrecord? I mean, it -- does it include --MR. WRIGHT: Records, files, documents,something --QUESTION: Something written. QUESTION: Yes, but when -- yes, and when the --MR. WRIGHT: She's making the record.QUESTION: -- when the kid speaks, nothing hasbeen written yet. QUESTION: Records, files, documents, and othermaterials. I don't see what there is in this case thatfalls within that category. MR. WRIGHT: The grade.QUESTION: The grade is not a record, file,document, or other material. MR. WRIGHT: She's making -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: A. You know, I say, A. The childshouts out, A. That is a record?MR. WRIGHT: And I write it down as you shout itout. QUESTION: Oh, after you write it down, maybewhen the teacher writes it down -- at most when theteacher writes it down in her grade book, you say it -- itthen becomes a record. But she doesn't disclose thatgrade book. The only thing that's been disclosed is thechild's, after he grades that paper, shouting out A. What-- what is the record that has been disclosed when thechild does that? MR. WRIGHT: That is the record that has beendisclosed because the teacher is making the record.QUESTION: So you're saying the informationbefore it becomes a -- before it becomes a record, becauseit doesn't become a record until the child says it, andthen the teacher writes it down. You're saying theinformation even before it becomes a record cannot bedisclosed. MR. WRIGHT: If she's collecting it, yes.QUESTION: Suppose a child --QUESTION: Where do you get that from thestatute?MR. WRIGHT: (B)(i). It would be illogical for th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC a teacher to have a legal obligation to protect theconfidentiality of that grade that she just created in hergrade book, yet have the student call out the grade. Itis no longer --QUESTION: It may well be illogical, but I don'tsee anything in the statute that -- that prohibits it,anymore -- you could say it's just as illogical toprohibit the teacher from disclosing that information, butif somebody else happens to know it, for that person to beperfectly free to say, you know, Jack Smith's kid got a Din that test. Does that violate the statute? No, ofcourse, it doesn't because the statute only covers certainthings, and what it covers is records. I don't see whatrecord has been disclosed here. MR. WRIGHT: If a teacher has a legal obligationto protect the information in the grade book, if the gradebook is an education record --QUESTION: It isn't in the grade book yet. Your-- your objection is the child grades the paper and saysto the class, says to the teacher, A. What -- what is therecord that is being disclosed then? MR. WRIGHT: She's making the record. The factsof this case --QUESTION: Ah, yes.MR. WRIGHT: -- where she's making the record. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: The teacher is making the recordafter the child says, A.MR. WRIGHT: That is true. QUESTION: What about a child who -- I rememberin my third grade, my teacher, who thought it was her jobto teach, had problems sometimes with discipline. And Imight talk too much. I used to. (Laughter.) QUESTION: And -- and so the teacher would saythat's reasoned self-discipline. You lack it. And I'dget a check. And you'd get three checks, and you get amark on your report card. All right? And say, Stephen,that's the third time. You now have a mark on your reportcard. All right. Now, she did that in front of theclass because she felt that this is the way I keep myclass in order and it helps me teach. She did the samething with her grades, many of them. She did the samething with attendance, by the way. We all said, here,here, sometimes present. All right. In your view, are all those thingsnow forbidden by Senator Buckley's statute that theteacher cannot run her class that way? MR. WRIGHT: Not all of those items areforbidden, Your Honor. The Socratic method is not th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC forbidden, Your Honor. Going to the chalkboard is notforbidden. QUESTION: No, no. Let's use my examples. Myexample was I act up in class. The teacher says you get acheck for reasoned self-discipline. She says to the wholeclass -- that's how she keeps order in her class. Thatused to be true in the third grade. My teacher, MissRosmond --(Laughter.) QUESTION: -- whom I recall with fondness,did --(Laughter.) QUESTION: All right. But now -- now, whatabout my example? I'd like an answer to that example.MR. WRIGHT: If she's making a record, I wouldsay that would be a disclosure. QUESTION: Okay. My next question is each morning we came in andsaid, present or here, and she'd keep a record. Now, isthat also forbidden by this statute, unless you go throughthe elaborate procedures in the directory section, which Idon't know any school that would have done for somethinglike that? But is that, in the absence of that, alsoforbidden? MR. WRIGHT: No. That's part of the directory th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC information. QUESTION: No, no. If they don't go through theprocedures. In other words, they -- the teacher doesn'tannounce to every parent, now we want to have a hearingfor you to see whether we say to your child, here or nothere. MR. WRIGHT: Under your --QUESTION: That would be a violation in yourview on the same theory. MR. WRIGHT: It'd be a violation, but it's notunder the statute. QUESTION: Well, all right. My question ultimately then, given our examples,is do we really think that Senator Buckley intended to sointerfere with the way in which a teacher would run his orher classroom --MR. WRIGHT: Senator --QUESTION: -- for teaching and disciplinarypurposes. QUESTION: And -- and if so, do we think thatthe Congress agreed with Senator Buckley? (Laughter.) MR. WRIGHT: That's correct, because in answerto -- to Justice Breyer, Senator Buckley specificallystated, some may argue that my amendment will create too th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC much additional work and red tape. To that argument, Imust reply that I am no -- not so much concerned about theworkload or convenience of the educational bureaucracy. He was not concerned about what type of convenience. Another way --QUESTION: So no -- no gold stars on the -- onthe paper that goes back to the student that any otherstudent can see, or in these days, a Post-it with a happyface? that.(Laughter.) QUESTION: The Federal Government prohibitsMR. WRIGHT: He's intending to give the parentthe right to consent to the release of information. Webelieve the grade book is information. Handing back apaper, it could be handed back to the child upside down ifit has a grade on it. There are a hundred ways to skinthis cat. QUESTION: If I -- if I don't agree with you onthis -- and I thought my examples that I gave are extremeinstances, and it doesn't cover that. Can you give me anyhelp at all as to how this statute might be interpreted tokeep its basic point, which -- which might be a desirableone, but not to cover my extreme cases? MR. WRIGHT: Senator Buckley said another th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC statement. Simple forms could be mailed to parents toobtain their permission for certain activities with regardto their children. I would also further note that many schoolsalready require the prior written consent of parents on anumber of matters, including testing, special projects,drug programs, sex education, not to mention permissionslips to go on field trips, permission slips to go play onthe football team, permission slips to sell candy. Parents are bombarded with consent forms. What theconsent form does is it informs the parent as to what ishappening to their child with respect to their education.The teacher does not have the fundamental rightto educate the child. Ms. --QUESTION: But it gives the individual -- itgives the individual parent a veto, and that's what you'resaying. You have a school district. Education is one ofthe -- the areas that is most traditionally handledlocally. Right? And your -- your scheme is that any oneparent in any classroom is going to have a veto over howthat classroom operates. MR. WRIGHT: Not necessarily, Your Honor. Oneparent has a veto with respect to their one child becausethey have the fundamental parental right to educate theirchild. The teacher does not; they do. And that's exactly th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC what Senator Buckley was -- was intending with the BuckleyAmendment. QUESTION: So the rules -- any parent can makethe rules for that parent's child, what that parent wantsthem to be, not the teacher, not the school district.MR. WRIGHT: With respect to --QUESTION: You think that's what Senator Buckleymeant.MR. WRIGHT: Yes, with respect to educationrecords, that is correct, especially scores on exams.We're dealing with a special ed student here that wasbeing mainstreamed in the classroom and having his gradescalled out loud. QUESTION: As long as the teacher records them,you say that. But I think you said all this could go on,the teacher could give a spot quiz and say, I'm notcounting it today, but everybody wants to know howeverybody performed, so we're going to have the gradescalled out. MR. WRIGHT: That's possibly true, but there areother means. Even the district court found --QUESTION: But what is the answer to that? Isit -- is it -- the teacher gives a quiz, has the gradescalled out, but doesn't record in her grade book. MR. WRIGHT: If she's not recording it in her th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC grade book, that is not a violation. QUESTION: And if she says, class, I want togive you an incentive to do better, so I'm going to writedown these grades but I'm going to discount -- at the endof the term I'm going to discount the lower two-thirds ofthem.MR. WRIGHT: It's an education record. The factthat the teacher only uses three exam scores that she'swritten in her grade book as opposed to five exam scoresdoes not nullify the parent's right to consent to therelease of that exam grade in the classroom. QUESTION: Is it perfectly clear that thedisclosure of information within the classroom setting isa release of education records within the meaning of(B)(i)?be. MR. WRIGHT: Within the meaning of (B)(i) --QUESTION: Yes. MR. WRIGHT: -- our interpretation is it has toQUESTION: Why do you say that if -- if it hasthe more formal concern about release to the public andlaw enforcement and so forth? It seems to me that there'san awful lot of information about special students andothers that -- that the student's classmates areinevitably going to learn about just by being in class th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC seeing what goes on in class. It isn't, though, the --his general performance is a secret to the -- to the other-- to his classmates.MR. WRIGHT: That -- that's correct, Your Honor. In fact, FERPA is not a panacea for all performances. Infact, the directory information exception to the educationrecord specifically says that participation in schoolactivities is fine.QUESTION: But this particular school activity,it's not fine. I'm reading off the answers in -- in thepresence of no one else except your classmates whogenerally have a pretty good idea of who the good studentsare and who -- who the bad students are. But you stillsay that's -- that's clearly a release within the meaningof the statute in your view. MR. WRIGHT: The grade that's going in the gradebook is a release, Your Honor.QUESTION: You think it's especially --especially mean with respect to this special -- special edstudent who's being mainstreamed. What -- what do you sayto the petitioners' footnote in their reply brief that therecord establishes that the only special education servicePhilip received was minutes of speech therapy once aweek? And that was discontinued, with respondent'sconsent, prior to the end of Philip's seventh grade year. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC That's not as appealing as your description of this -- ofthis student. MR. WRIGHT: The fact that a special ed --QUESTION: Is that -- is that what you mean by aspecial ed student, a student who is receiving minutesof speech therapy once a -- once a week?MR. WRIGHT: Yes. I think that's --QUESTION: That's what you mean by a special --special ed student. MR. WRIGHT: He was. He was IEP. He was in anIEP program under the IDE Act.QUESTION: minutes a week. Did he getanything else other than that? Of speech therapy. Whatdid he have? A stutter perhaps? MR. WRIGHT: No. He was slow in reading, YourHonor. He was slow in reading the exams, the pop quizzes,Your Honor. I mean --QUESTION: Well, how would speech therapy helpthat? MR. WRIGHT: I don't know, Your Honor. Thosequestions were not raised. None of those material factswere part of the record. QUESTION: Well, I suggest you not paint yourclient as more sympathetic than he is.MR. WRIGHT: I am just trying to be sensitive th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC not only to just that one child, but even to her otherchildren who are also part of this case with respect totheir A's. They were straight A students. So rather --whether one child receives low grades or whether one childreceives stellar performance in the classroom, it does notmatter. It is still a release of a grade. Those childrenknow the grade. The parents of those children know thegrade. When a parent goes to the parent-teacherconference and she shows up and the teacher says, allright, these are the -- we're going to keep this private,it's not private information. It's already beendisclosed. That information is not private. How can theteacher keep concealed that which she already revealed? And even the district court found that hard to believe.And -- and that's -- that's the logic of theTenth Circuit. The Tenth Circuit didn't prohibit thepractice. The Tenth Circuit merely suggested that thestatute on its face, the plain language of the statute,says, give the parent the right to consent. That was theintent of Senator Buckley: give the parent the right toconsent to the release. QUESTION: If it's an educational record asdefined under the act and maintained as such -- and that'sreally the issue, whether it -- it's covered at this stage th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC of a fellow student calling out a grade.MR. WRIGHT: It's covered because in the factsof this case, the teacher is using that protocol tocollect the information. QUESTION: Well, but that is not the text of thestatute. You have to overcome the fact that the literallanguage wouldn't cover it.MR. WRIGHT: The literal language interpreted inthe context of the parent's right to consent, in otherwords, keeping that information confidential. If there isa legal obligation on the part of the teacher to keep thatgrade confidential once it's in her hands --QUESTION: She had -- they have no right to keepinformation confidential. They have a right to keep therecord confidential. If the information is obtained fromsome source other than the record, the statute does not --does not address its release. MR. WRIGHT: I respectfully disagree. Thestatute specifically says, which has a policy or practiceof permitting the release of education records orpersonally identifiable information contained therein --QUESTION: Contained in the records. MR. WRIGHT: She's making the record. She'smaintaining the record. That has to be interpreted in thecontext of what we're doing here. And if we look at th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Whalen v. Roe --QUESTION: I'm way out-of-date probably, butagain, when I used to be in school, grades were thoughtof, to some degree, as an incentive, that they weren'ttotally private. One of their functions is they should beat least told to other people in the class in order to getthem to work harder or to strive harder. Now, in -- the term of records, when they talkabout records, which I don't think defines itself, isthere any indication in this history that that idea thatif a teacher wants to use grades as a kind of incentivedevice, that that should not be up to the teacher? Sheisn't able to do it? I mean, is there -- see, records doesn't defineitself, and I'm looking for a line.MR. WRIGHT: Congress intended that --QUESTION: In -- in the absence of some otherline, I might tend to think a line should be drawn to givethe teacher maximum freedom to run his or her class theway the teacher feels is best educationally. That'sdifferent from having a record in an office somewhere inthe clerk's office in the school. See, that's where --that's where I'm sort of looking for, and I'm trying toget some help from you with that. MR. WRIGHT: The line is the grade that is going th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC in the grade book with respect to this particular case. If the grade is going in the grade book, what she iscreating, she is maintaining. If -- if that -- ifmaintain does not mean that she is making the record orcreating the record, if we subscribe to their view thatmaintain means the central custodian, then the centralcustodian doesn't have any record either until it'sactually in their hands. And then we can disclose, we canaccess, we -- everything. QUESTION: So what -- so what if you could? Suppose you were to say that. Suppose you were to saybefore it becomes part of the permanent records of theschool, you can disclose it to other people. You can. That's right. The teacher can tell other students. Theteacher can tell the parents. The teacher can have adiscussion about it. They can do a lot of those things ifthe teacher feels that's good educationally and the schoolapproves. What would be so terrible about that in termsof this statute? MR. WRIGHT: It would be terrible. It would bedisastrous. Students, parents would not have the right,that privacy. That interest in keeping that informationprivate would not be there. Everybody would have accessto that information. In fact, that reads out of thestatute (B)(i). You wouldn't have confidentiality. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Education records, by its plain language in thestatute, means information directly related to the studentand maintained by the institution or somebody acting onbehalf of the institution. And clearly, by the plainlanguage of the statute, that includes the teacher. So,yes, the teacher grade books -- the teacher grade booksare education records, subject to the Family EducationalRights and Privacy Act, the privileges and the obligationsthat come with this particular statute.QUESTION: Mr. Wright, this goes all the waythrough, I take it, in your view that -- take a collegestudent. The college student can say, oh, I don't want toparticipate. I don't want anybody else to know what mygrade is, and I'm not going to exchange papers withanother person. MR. WRIGHT: Precisely. We don't engage in thispractice at college because we would have mutiny at allcolleges. They have the capacity as adults, I'm not doingthis. I'm out of this class. I don't want people knowingwhat my --QUESTION: I understand it's a --QUESTION: You're out of the college. I mean,that --(Laughter.) QUESTION: It's a technique that teachers do th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC use, to have students prepare and present each other'spapers, that that's a technique that's quite common incolleges and professional schools.MR. WRIGHT: You're referring to the -- theteacher assistant helping them grade? QUESTION: No, no. The students critique eachother's papers. MR. WRIGHT: Okay. Student peer critiquing? That is not prohibited by FERPA. The teacher is notcollecting that information. The students are making theevaluation or assessment of each other for their solepurpose, not for the purpose of the teacher recording andmaking --QUESTION: The teacher writes down -- theteacher writes down in the book the comments that thestudents made and she takes that into account in the finalgrade in the course. MR. WRIGHT: Outside of the facts of this case,that may be a violation if, in fact, she's making a recordand that was the intent of the teacher to make a record.QUESTION: A -- a good alternate name for thisstatute would have been the Anti -- the Prevention ofMutiny Among Students Act? (Laughter.) QUESTION: Suppose -- suppose that a school th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC district received $ a year in Federal funds, and thisact were applied in the way you said, would that to youraise any serious concerns of federalism? MR. WRIGHT: I think the funds need to beavailable under an applicable program, and I think thelower cases have -- have deemed that certain programs areapplicable and certain others are not. Federal fundingthrough a State agency would be an applicable program. Those facts were never raised in this particular case,never defended by petitioners as to whether or not therewas any applicable Federal funding involved in thisparticular case. The solution to the problem with respect to thisissue that is before the Court, provide the parent theright to consent -- in fact, that's what they're doing inmany schools or they're just, like the Tenth Circuit said,do it anonymously or don't do it at all. Have the studentgrade their own paper. Encourage the parent to come and-- and be informed as to what is happening --QUESTION: To have the student grade their ownpaper might have some problems with it too. (Laughter.) MR. WRIGHT: I cross examined the principal withrespect to that particular issue, and he said, well, weexchange papers because the students cheat. I said, well, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC the neighbor grading the other neighbor's paper -- theydon't have an opportunity to cheat? Oh, yes, you'reright, Mr. Wright. They do cheat. So that doesn'tpreclude the students from cheating, does it? No. Well,no, they could cheat even during the exam because theycould write the answers on their hand. QUESTION: Well, you need two cheaters for thatto work, whereas if you grade your own paper, it onlytakes one. Right? (Laughter.) MR. WRIGHT: We believe that the plain languagegoverns what is an educational record and it does not meanthe permanent transcript. If Congress had intended foreducation records to mean a permanent transcript, theycould have easily placed language in there that said onlythe permanent or cumulative record of a child is aneducation record. They didn't say that. They evenexcepted out sole possession notes, which are notes of theteachers. They excepted out directory information. TheFamily Policy Compliance Office has consistently over thelast years held that the grade book is an educationrecord.A parent would like to access it. Here's the --here's another consequence, that a parent doesn't have aright to access if it's merely the permanent education th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC record of the grades. The teacher could -- could say, no,you can't see your child's grades. A parent has to havethat information available to her for the purpose ofmaking some important decisions with respect to her child,and that's exactly what Ms. Falvo went to the schooldistrict and argued. She argued that those are mychildren's grades. Those are between me and the teacher. I have a right to consent to their release, and I have aright to access. QUESTION: Well, but a moment ago, from what yousaid, I thought the school district was telling her thatshe couldn't see her children's grades. That neverhappened, did it? MR. WRIGHT: No, that never happened. But thathappened in a particular case that has been cited by thepetitioners in the State of California where a mom with aspecial ed child was having a hearing and needed theinformation in the grade book, and they said, no, FERPAdoesn't apply. The grades in the grade book -- she had noevidence available to her to make an informed decisionwith respect to whether or not her child belonged --QUESTION: But that -- that wasn't what happenedhere, was it? MR. WRIGHT: That isn't what happened here, butthat has happened, Your Honor. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Any further questions? Seeing none, Your Honor,we submit. CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: Thank you, Mr. Wright.The case is submitted. (Whereupon, at : p.m., the case in theabove-entitled matter was submitted.) th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC 