 IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XLEONARD EDELMAN, Petitioner ::v. : No. -LYNCHBURG COLLEGE. :- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XWashington, D.C.Tuesday, January , The above-entitled matter came on for oralargument before the Supreme Court of the United States at: a.m.APPEARANCES:ERIC SCHNAPPER, ESQ., Seattle, Washington; on behalf ofthe Petitioner.LISA S. BLATT, ESQ., Assistant to the Solicitor General,Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on behalf ofthe United States, as amicus curiae, supporting thePetitioner. ALEXANDER L. BELL, ESQ., Lynchburg, Virginia; on behalfof the Respondent. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC C O N T E N T SORAL ARGUMENT OF ERIC SCHNAPPER, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioner LISA S. BLATT, ESQ.On behalf of the United States, as amicus curiae, supporting the Petitioner ALEXANDER L. BELL, ESQ.On behalf of the Respondent REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OFERIC SCHNAPPER, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioner PAGE th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC P R O C E E D I N G S(: a.m.)CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: We'll hear argumentnext in No. -, Leonard Edelman v. Lynchburg College.Mr. Schnapper.ORAL ARGUMENT OF ERIC SCHNAPPERON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERMR. SCHNAPPER: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court:The relation-back rule for verification undersection .(b) is a proper exercise of the authoritygranted to the EEOC under section of title VII topromulgate procedural regulations. The regulation isconsistent with the language of section . Title VIIrequires that a charge be verified, and the statute alsorequires that a charge be filed within or days ofthe act of discrimination. But as Judge Luttig correctly observed below,these two statutory requirements are independent of eachother. Specifically, (e)() establishes deadlines of or days, but it applies those deadlines only towhen, quote, a charge must be filed. Section (e)()does not purport to establish a deadline for verification. Conversely, section (b) requires verification, but itcontains no deadline for doing so. That omission is th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC particularly significant because other requirements whichare contained in (b) do have deadlines. QUESTION: What -- what about the other elementsthat -- that are required by the statute to be in the --in the charge? Surely the commission has to serve notice of thecharge, including the date and place and circumstances ofthe alleged unlawful employment practice. Isn't thatstatutory provision implicitly a requirement that thecharge contain the date, place, and circumstances of thealleged unlawful practice? MR. SCHNAPPER: I wouldn't go quite that far. The -- the commission's interpretation of that, which isembodied in section .(b), concludes that a charge issufficient if it identifies the parties and contains adescription of the alleged discriminatory practice.QUESTION: Well, how -- how can -- how can thestatute be complied with? I mean, the statute,e-(b), clearly says that the commission on receivinga charge shall serve a notice of it, paren, including thedate, place, and circumstances of the alleged unlawfulemployment practice on the employer.MR. SCHNAPPER: Well, it does -- it does soprovide. But it also provides that the -- that the chargeshall contain the information and be in the form required th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC by the commission. The commission does not require thatparticular information. Ordinarily it could be inferredin practice --QUESTION: So, you think the charge doesn't evenhave to -- because the commission hasn't chosen to requirethat, a charge doesn't even have to contain the date,circumstances, and place of the alleged --MR. SCHNAPPER: Well, the commission has --QUESTION: What does it have to contain? MR. SCHNAPPER: The regulation requires --QUESTION: I have been discriminated against?MR. SCHNAPPER: I understand the regulation torequire more specificity than that. That -- that questionis not posed, of course, by this case. No one questionsthe specificity of the information in this letter. Itdid --QUESTION: No. I understand that. But -- butwhat you say about -- about the requirement or -- ornonrequirement of -- of oath, of it being under oath, Ithink you -- you're going to have to logically say aboutother requirements or, as you think them, nonrequirementsof the charge. I don't see how -- how the two don't gohand in hand. MR. SCHNAPPER: I -- I think that you have toread -- well, the commission's view is that there is an th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC irreducible minimum that has to be in a charge. You can'tjust file a piece of paper called -- that says charge andfill in the blanks later. QUESTION: Why? Why does it come to thatposition? It just made it up? MR. SCHNAPPER: The statute expressly providesthat the commission can specify what information needs tobe in a charge, and that's the -- that's the answer theygive. QUESTION: I see. Not because there's anystatutory compulsion, but just in its -- in its wisdom andbeneficence, the commission has decided that there has tobe a certain minimal amount of information in the charge,not because the statute implies that there must be. MR. SCHNAPPER: I -- I don't -- Federal Registerrecounts any -- any explanation, but it seems to me itwould be logical for the commission to have looked at theprovision to which you refer in -- in framing the -- therequirements it has. QUESTION: Right, but if it looked at theprovision to which I refer, it would say a charge has to-- we're not going to bother an employer and require himto come back with a response unless you haven't just comein and said, I've been discriminated against. We're notgoing to ask the employer, has this person been th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC discriminated against? You tell us the date, the place,and the circumstances. Now, that's perfectly reasonable.But it seems to me also perfectly reasonable tosay, moreover, we're not going to go and bother theemployer and make the employer go through all the processof -- of answering the charge unless you're serious enoughabout it that you've -- you've sworn to it under oath, asthe -- as the statute requires. MR. SCHNAPPER: Well, what happens as apractical matter where verification occurs after thefiling date is that the employer is usually not requiredto actually take any action.QUESTION: But here what -- the employer wasn'teven -- wasn't notified until the form -- on the EEOC'sproper form that did everything, including theverification. You seem to have treated both the same way,that -- that all that the imperfect charge did was stopthe clock, but the EEOC didn't give notice to the employerat that point. That wasn't the charge -- the form inwhich the charge went to the employer. As I understandit, the employer never got the form until it had beenperfected. MR. SCHNAPPER: Your Honor, it's our view thatthe -- that the court -- that the EEOC erred in notproviding notice at that time, and it's -- I think it's th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC clear, from a reading of the compliance manual, that itsown manual did require notice at that time.But in any event --QUESTION: And would also require notice of --of a charge that was imperfect in other respects within days of receiving the charge. So, if a -- the requirementthat it be in writing, for example, that's a requirementthat isn't -- isn't particularly in the -- in the statuteof limitations provision, but it's a requirement that itbe in writing. So, the commission gets a phone complaint fromsomebody who says, my employer is discriminating againstme. Now, you're saying that the commission should within days contact the employer about that. MR. SCHNAPPER: The -- it's our view that --that if the commission receives a sufficient charge, itmust do so. The regulations do not contemplate that aphone call is a sufficient charge, and they specify how it-- that would have to be put in writing --QUESTION: This is all just a matter of theregulations. I mean, the commission can -- can just say,you know, this is sufficient or isn't. This commissioncould say that a phone call is sufficient.MR. SCHNAPPER: The -- the statute requires thata charge be filed, so I think it would have to be reduced th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC to writing. But I --QUESTION: The word filed. MR. SCHNAPPER: But I would say the commissionprobably could alter its -- its regulation and deem amemorialized phone call the filing of the charge. That's-- those aren't the circumstances here. And -- and to get back to the specific issuebefore the Court, the Fifth Circuit -- excuse me -- theFourth Circuit would have reached the same result in thiscase regardless of whether this letter -- notice of thisletter or the letter itself had been served on theemployer within days of the receipt of the letter onNovember th. The decision below didn't rest on that. Even if there had been service and notice, the court ofappeals would still have held the regulation was invalid. And -- and it's the validity of that specific regulation-- that's the only question that the court of appealsaddressed.QUESTION: Mr. Schnapper, if you agree that if-- you started out with Judge Luttig's position. Heconcurred and he raised four other. Did the EEOC considerthis a charge? We don't know whether it did. Wouldn'tthe case have to go back so that the full court of appealscould examine those questions on which Judge Luttig restedso that he ended up concurring rather than dissenting? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. SCHNAPPER: Yes. Yes. It remains --QUESTION: So, you agree that those fourquestions are alive and would have to be --MR. SCHNAPPER: It -- it remains open to the --to the respondent to raise those issues on remand, and wethink that that's the appropriate procedure --QUESTION: Thank you. MR. SCHNAPPER: -- for addressing it.The -- as I was saying, specifically (e)()and (b) establish separate and distinct requirements. In the terms of Chevron, the question is whether thoseprovisions, read together, clearly require in anunambiguous manner that verification happened before thecharge-filing deadline. We think that -- that suchclarity certainly isn't present here. To the contrary,our view is that the most plausible reading of the statuteis that verification could happen after the charge-filingdeadline. That's a particularly reasonable constructionof the statute because that is the common law rule. That's the rule --QUESTION: Do you think it's good practice forthe EEOC to wait until after the -day period and averification before it even notifies the employer?MR. SCHNAPPER: No. No. It was -- in our view,it was improper to have done that here, that the -- the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC statute doesn't authorize them to await verification. Itis our understanding that is not their practice. It isnot authorized by the compliance manual. The compliancemanual does identify some circumstances in which theremight be delay in -- notification. Verification is notone of them. QUESTION: Let me -- suppose you have astatutory provision which says that the complaint shall bein writing, sworn to under oath, shall set forth the time,place, and circumstances of the alleged grievance, comma,and shall be presented to the agency within days afterthe alleged grievance. Now, would you be taking the sameposition you take here, that that's a separaterequirement --MR. SCHNAPPER: Yes. QUESTION: -- and that --MR. SCHNAPPER: Yes. We would --QUESTION: Do you have any -- any -- I wouldnever read a statute that way. It would certainly seem tome that -- that what they're talking about to be filedwithin days is what they have just described. And --and --MR. SCHNAPPER: I don't --QUESTION: Do you have any cases of ours --MR. SCHNAPPER: Well -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: -- that -- that go that far? MR. SCHNAPPER: The Federal rules require that anotice of appeal shall be in writing and shall be filedwithin a certain period of time. And yet, in Becker v.Montgomery, the Court concluded that that didn't mean thatan unsigned -- that -- that where the only document thatwas filed on time wasn't signed -- that there was notimely notice of appeal. The -- the -- and -- and indeed, the common lawrule was where a statute said a complaint must be verifiedand the complaint must be filed within a certain number of-- of days or years, the -- the uniform Federal and Stateinterpretation of that was that the lack of verificationcould be corrected after the expiration of the deadline.It seems to us that the commission reasonablyconcluded that Congress would have not wanted a morestringent rule about relation-back of verification toapply in the administrative process, a process ordinarilyinitiated by laymen unassisted by counsel, than wouldapply in civil litigation which is much more formal andwhich -- and, you know, the -- the common law rule aboutcorrecting verification after the fact applied regardlessof whether, as would normally be the case, the -- theparty involved was represented by counsel. So, we -- wethink the common law rule is a very important part of the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC background of the statute. QUESTION: In these other situations that youmentioned, does the court take action against a particularindividual or require a response from a particularindividual before the verification occurs? You see, that-- that seems to me the difference here, that you'resaying the commission, within days after receiving thisunverified complaint, has to submit it to the employer andask the employer to respond to it.MR. SCHNAPPER: No. The -- under the procedureestablished by title VII, the employer is not required torespond just by virtue of getting notice. Notice simplyalerts them to the filing of the charge. It is a separatestep in the procedure for the agency to then require theemployer to do anything in response. It's not like acomplaint which requires an answer within so many days.QUESTION: Okay. I see. MR. SCHNAPPER: It's simply a heads-up. QUESTION: Now, does the agency requireverification to occur before it will demand a responsefrom the employer? MR. SCHNAPPER: I think that would be the normalpractice. QUESTION: Isn't that what -- the form --QUESTION: That makes me feel -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: -- that EEOC sends out, as you'vedescribed the procedure? It's called form , or whateverit is -- that they send to the complainant says sign,verify. It has everything to make the complaint perfect. And that's the form that is then sent to the employer. Inthis very case, that form was sent to the employer, butthe imperfect form wasn't. MR. SCHNAPPER: That's -- that's what occurredhere. But I'm thinking -- if I didn't make it clear inresponse to Justice Scalia's question, it's myunderstanding that the normal practice of the agency wouldbe not to require the employer to do anything until adefect in form, such as a lack of verification, had been-- had been addressed. The statute simply gives theemployer a heads-up, but doesn't -- the notice simplygives him -- doesn't require the employer to do anything. It's not like a complaint. QUESTION: But -- but meanwhile the -- the -- Imean, this -- this could occur a very long time after theevent occurred --MR. SCHNAPPER: I think --QUESTION: -- so long as the commission waitsthat long to get the verification. Right? MR. SCHNAPPER: I think not in practice. Myunderstanding is that in practice the commission will ask th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC for a verification. In fact, frequently they will ask fora form regardless of whether what's in the -- thecorrespondence that reached them. So, all problems getsolved. If you had an employee who refused to verifywith reasonable promptness, I think the agency wouldundoubtedly dismiss the -- the charge for lack ofcooperation, and that would be the end of it. With the Court's leave, I'd like to reserve thebalance of my time. QUESTION: Very well, Mr. Schnapper. Ms. Blatt, we'll hear from you. ORAL ARGUMENT OF LISA S. BLATTON BEHALF OF THE UNITED STATES,AS AMICUS CURIAE, SUPPORTING THE PETITIONERMS. BLATT: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice, andmay it please the Court:Under the longstanding rule at common law, thefailure to verify a complaint, as required by statute, maybe cured by an amendment that relates back to a timelyfiled complaint. The commission incorporated that rule byregulation in , years after the passage of titleVII. The contrary rule embraced by the panel wouldinvalidate even the most detailed and well-pled complaintthat was timely filed with the commission but did not -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC was not verified until later. The common law rule ensures that substantiverights are not foreclosed when the essential elements of acomplaint are sufficient to vest the court withjurisdiction. QUESTION: But -- but in this case, the -- theagency doesn't treat it as a full charge until it'sverified for purposes of notifying the employer. Theagency seems to be quite inconsistent. MS. BLATT: Well, that's not --QUESTION: I mean, you -- you want us to acceptthis argument as to what a charge is, but then you don'twant us to accept it for when the employer has to knowabout it so the evidence doesn't go stale. MS. BLATT: It's not that the -- it's not thatthe agency is waiting for verification before it givesnotice, and if the only thing missing from a charge isverification, the agency's procedures require noticewithin days. Thus, the -- if a November -- if a chargecomes in like the November th letter that's notverified, the procedures require notice within days.That wasn't done here, Justice Kennedy. Theagency did not comply with its obligation to provide theemployer with notice. But that in no way affects orundermines the validity of the relation-back regulation th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC which doesn't relate to notice. It relates to whether acharge is timely filed even though it is not verified. Had --QUESTION: Well, but -- shouldn't the two be --be tied together? I mean, it's reasonable to have itrelate back so long as there is no prejudice to the -- tothe employer from having it relate back. But when you saywe're not going to give the employer notice until it'slater verified, there is prejudice to the employer. Evidence is getting stale and so forth. MS. BLATT: But, Justice Scalia, the -- theagency's procedures required this employer to have notice,whether or not the November th letter was verified, andthe employer then can preserve its documents or -- orrespond to the charge or do whatever it wants. The --QUESTION: You say that that's a separatemistake, and whatever prejudice that comes from that theemployer is free to raise on remand. Is that it? MS. BLATT: Yes. The issue of notice is whatdrove one of the -- the key issues that drove JudgeLuttig's concurrence, which would have upheld theregulation and the majority's interpretation. Had theagency immediately hand-delivered this document to theemployer, we'd still be here because the Fourth Circuitwould invalidate the charge because it wasn't verified th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC until day .QUESTION: But you agree with Mr. Schnapper thatthe agency just missed, that they should have given -- forthe purpose of giving -- giving notice, sent thatunverified charge to the employer. MS. BLATT: Yes, absolutely. It was filed withthe agency on receipt, and the -- an employer should havebeen notified within days. And that wasn't done untillater. And we think the -- this argument would be open onremand, what the consequences of the -- of the untimelynotice. But the untimely notice is a separate questionfrom an untimely filing of an otherwise sufficient andvalid charge, and this charge was filed within the -day period because it was received by the agency onNovember th. And our point is that if the essentialelements of the charge are sufficient to -- to vest thecommission with jurisdiction, the verification could besupplied later. And the rule at common law, which was wellestablished in both State and Federal courts by ,applied to lawyers in a formal pleading practice andjudicial proceedings, and the commission certainly actedreasonably in adopting the same rule where Congressanticipated that the charging parties are often th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC unrepresented by counsel. We don't think anything in the text of title VIIforecloses the commission's regulation. Section (b)states that a charge must be verified, but it does notstate when verification must occur. And section (e)states that a charge must be filed within days, but itdoesn't state that the charge must be verified at the timeit is filed. QUESTION: What about the argument that (b)comes before (e), so -- and to define what a charge is,the word charge, and then it's given a certain descriptionin (b). Then when you get down to (e), it retains thatsame description.MS. BLATT: Well, title VII didn't define theword charge as a verified charge. It just said that itshall be verified, and certainly those don't -- it's justthe kind of ambiguity that would invoke the common lawrule that the charge -- a later -- a later verificationmay relate back to the time of filing. So, we don't thinkanything in this text comes close to trumping what -- whatwould be the common law presumption. And as Judge Luttig observed, that there's not asingle provision either by its effect or its terms thatsuggests that there's a limitations provision forverification. There's certainly one for filing and th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC there's certainly a -day notice period for the employer,but there's not a specific time period when theverification must occur. And in the normal course ofbusiness, the agency will try to obtain a standard formwhose signature line contains an affirmation, and so theverification requirement will be supplied. And if it'snot, the agency will dismiss that charge and cease itsinvestigation. And there's important consequences to thatbecause the employee will not be able to pursue a claimfor relief if he's not complied with the statutoryrequirement of verification.QUESTION: Can you tell me what happens -- it'snot this case -- if there's a rule in -- in the circuits-- I don't think we passed on it. What happens if there'sa verified complaint? The complaint is filed with theEEOC in time. Then the EEOC just sits on it and notifiesthe employer, say, days late. Does the employer --must he show prejudice in -- in -- before he can defend onthe ground of late service? Or how does that work? MS. BLATT: We know of just a handful of caseswhere the charge just got lost in the system, and theconsequences of that would turn on two factors. First,whether the employer could show prejudice in its abilityto defend the suit, and we think there's a second, aconstitutional question of whether the employee's rights th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC could be foreclosed because the agency defaulted on itsown statutory obligations. This Court's decision in Loganv. Zimmerman Brush would suggest that it cannot. But Idon't -- you wouldn't even need to get to that issue ifthe employer didn't show prejudice. This Court in Shell Oil also discussed that the-- the courts of appeals had been uniform, that absent badfaith by the agency or prejudice to the employer indefending his ability to defend the suit, that theemployee's rights would not be prejudiced.If there are no more questions. QUESTION: Thank you, Ms. Blatt. Mr. Bell, we'll hear from you.ORAL ARGUMENT OF ALEXANDER W. BELLON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTMR. BELL: In the Mohasco case, this Courttaught that the EEOC may not adopt regulations that areinconsistent with the statutory mandate. As we have heldon prior occasions, its interpretations of the statutecannot supersede the language chosen by Congress. Andthat's exactly what's happened here. The statute in (b) says that charges shall bein writing and under oath. Next, it's separated by anand. The statute goes on and says the statute -- thecharge shall include such information and be in such form th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC as the EEOC requires.What the EEOC has done here in its regulation isto say that a charge is sufficient so long as it's inwriting. That's exactly what the regulation says. Thetext of the -- of the statute is simply inconsistent withthat. What the argument of the respondent is, is thatthere's no real linkage between (b), the use of theterm (b), where the charge shall be in writing andunder oath, and (e), which specifies that charges shallbe filed within a certain time period. That's simply notso. If you look at the text of (e), it sayscharges under this section, not under this subsection. Itsays charges under this section shall be filed within acertain period of time. So, we're not dealing with two independentstatutes here. We're dealing with two subsections ofexactly the same section of the same statute that arejoined at the hip. QUESTION: Judge -- Judge Luttig said that thatwas a very plausible argument. However, he said it wasnot the only plausible reading of these two discretepieces of the same statute, and it was permissible for theagency to take the view that it did. To prevail here, you th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC have to show that the position that the agency took wasimpermissible rather than as Judge Luttig said it is --maybe it's not the best choice, but it was a permissiblereading of this less than crystalline statute.MR. BELL: Justice Ginsburg, we don't believethat that is a permissible reading of the statute. Thelanguage just doesn't work that way. The first timeCongress mentioned the term charge, which shall be inwriting and under oath, it gave definition to the term. Justice Luttig -- Luttig simply didn't carry his analysisfar enough. I don't think he mentioned, for example, thefact that (e) begins with charges under this sectionshall be filed within a certain period of time. There'ssimply no --QUESTION: It seems to me that the reading thatyou are saying is the only proper reading is somewhatinconsistent with this Court's position in Becker againstMontgomery last term.MR. BELL: Justice Ginsburg, we -- we don'tthink so because we think what happened in Becker was aharmonization of two rules of the Court, with a focusparticularly on rule , which -- in the same rule whichestablished the requirement of -- of the signing,established the method to cure a failure to sign. That'sa very important difference here. In this statute, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC there's absolutely no indication of a -- of a intention onthe part of Congress to allow curing the one thing, theoath and the signing, that they set apart from thedelegation to the agency of authority to control, whichwas the form and content. I mean, just looking at thestructure of the language, they -- they emphasized oath. They applied it to commission charges, and they separatedit from the delegation of the authority to specify theform and content. In Becker, again the very thing thatestablished the requirement for signing established themethod of curing it. That's not true here. QUESTION: I think we heard the argument fromMr. Schnapper and Ms. Blatt that as a background commonlaw principle, the idea of a curative amendment to providea signature, to provide verification that then relatesback is nothing new. So that what Congress wrote has tobe read in the light of that background understanding. Yes, you must have a verification, but it can come later.MR. BELL: Your Honor, I -- I believe that thebackground principle, if you will, the background legalprinciple of our federalism and the background legalprinciple of due process to employers in fairness toemployers in giving notice was probably more a part of theapplicable legal background here -- here than an --QUESTION: But that was conceded. The -- the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC commission should have sent the imperfect charge. Theemployer doesn't have to answer it till he gets theperfected charge. So, the function of notice is served ifthe EEOC had done what it was supposed to do, and now itconcedes that it should have sent that charge. And theemployer isn't bothered with having to respond until hegets a perfected charge. MR. BELL: Well, Your Honor, the -- theregulation here eliminates the filing deadline. I mean,there's no time specified when verification must occur,and there are cases cited in amicus at page of theEqual Employment Advisory Council where charges have neverbeen verified. I mean, there's just no deadline.QUESTION: But that's not what anybody is urginghere. They concede that there must be a verification. The question -- as there was in this case.MR. BELL: Well, Your Honor, the letter itselfwas never verified. There was a form that was verified.QUESTION: No. The proper -- like an amendedcomplaint. You know that people file complaints in courtto get in under the deadline, and then they file anamended pleading which relates back. That's standard.MR. BELL: There's no indication that Congresshere adopted common law pleading rules. In fact, thelegislative history makes it pretty clear that Congress th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC meant to circumscribe the right that they created in titleVII rather narrowly.QUESTION: Do you question, Mr. Bell, youropponents' descriptions of the common law pleadingbackground that a complaint that was -- was required byrule to be verified and filed not verified could beverified later? MR. BELL: There are certainly many cases thathold that. There's no question about that.But -- but here we're dealing with -- withCongress creating a right that they struck a carefulbalance in, and as this Court has said, Congress specifiedcertain procedures as a compromise and that the bestassurance of administrative fairness is to insist on theprocedures that Congress put out. QUESTION: Mr. Bell, may I ask, going back toJustice Scalia's questions earlier? The statute requiresthat the charges shall be in writing, under oath oraffirmation, and shall contain such information and be insuch form as the commission requires. And then later theyprove it, the date, place, and circumstances of thepractice and so forth. Supposing the -- a charge is filed that's kindof a skeleton. It has -- maybe it doesn't really describethe place adequately, and the commission says to him, you th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC have not complied with the requirement giving enoughinformation. We require an amendment. Would the chargebe untimely in your view or would it be -- because it didnot contain all the information the commission required,and literally the statute requires that. MR. BELL: Yes, Your Honor. I don't think thecommission has the power to change the statute oflimitations. QUESTION: So that if they -- if they add arequirement, more information after there's a filing, theywould also be deciding that the original charge was -- wasuntimely. MR. BELL: Well, and in this case, Your Honor,that's exactly what they did. I mean, they -- there's noquestion that in this case the EEOC did not regard whathad been filed as a charge. QUESTION: And -- and --MR. BELL: They kept writing letters to thateffect. They kept telling the petitioner, you've got tofile, you got to do something. QUESTION: You'd also have to say, Mr. Bell,that -- that since the complaint or the charge has to beunder the statute in such form as the commission shallprescribe, you'd also have to say that if -- if the chargewas filed on by paper and the -- and the commission th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC had prescribed and a half by , that it's ineffective. Right? MR. BELL: Yes, Your Honor. I think that's whatthe statute contemplated. I think --QUESTION: Any little -- any little foot faultwould --MR. BELL: Sorry. QUESTION: Any little foot fault would render itineffective. I mean, any -- any --MR. BELL: I think that -- that --QUESTION: -- any little technical detail that-- that wasn't exactly as the commission's rules required.MR. BELL: If it was required by the commission,I think that's what the statute says. Of course, we'renot dealing with a technical detail here. QUESTION: Mr. Bell, wouldn't that be --wouldn't that be totally inconsistent with what Congressenvisioned? That is, these complaints with the EEOC werenot going to be filed by lawyers, lawyers who have leewayto amend under the Federal rules. These are going to befiled by lay people who didn't know anything, maybe noteven know what the word verification means, and yet youthink that Congress erected a structure where that initialcomplaint had to be more meticulous than what the Federalrules require a lawyer's pleading to say filed in court? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC That would be very odd.MR. BELL: The statute -- the statute seems toindicate that with respect to the -- at least with respectto the oath and writing requirements. I mean, there's no-- if -- if the EEOC can eliminate the oath requirement,they'll be here next year perhaps eliminating the writingrequirement. QUESTION: It's -- if the question -- here thequestion is when not whether. They're not -- they haven'teliminated it. It's a question as it was in Becker. Yes,you have to sign the notice of appeal, but you don't haveto do it within the time that the -- the statute oflimitations is running. MR. BELL: But you do have to do it in themethod and in the time set out in rule . There is noanalogous provision in this statute.QUESTION: What was filed in the court ofappeals within the time that you had to file the noticelacked a signature.MR. BELL: Yes. QUESTION: And that's the same thing that's herewithin the -- days. And then after -- here it was days. The same thing with the notice of appeal. The-- the signature was supplied some days later, but afterthe time line. So, I frankly don't see the difference in th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC the two. MR. BELL: Well, we see a fundamental differencebetween this Court harmonizing rules over which this Courthas control and the Court deciding whether to applyrequirements set out in a statute that Congress used tocreate a certain right.When Congress knew -- when Congress wanted toauthorize a gap --QUESTION: You're not asserting that our readingof our own rules is unreasonable, are you? MR. BELL: No, Your Honor. QUESTION: Well, but if our reading of our rulesisn't unreasonable and this agency has simply read thestatute the way we read our rules, then I assume that thisagency's reading of the statute is not unreasonable. Andthat's all that Chevron or whatever has replaced Chevronrequires. MR. BELL: Your Honor, there are two reasons wedon't think Chevron is the correct -- Chevron would upholdthis regulation. Number one, there's -- there's nodelegation of authority to control the writing and -- andthe signing requirement here. That's clearly separated inthe statute. When the EEOC wanted to create a gap, itknew how to do it, and it did it by saying you have theright to specify the form and content of the rule. They th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC didn't do that here. Secondly, this isn't a reasonable interpretationof -- of the statute itself. It's inconsistent withordinary rules of statutory construction. We think itreally unravels the statutory scheme. It is -- iteliminates the time filing requirement -- the timelyfiling requirement. Under the -- under the regulation,there's simply no deadline for filing a verifiedcomplaint. It -- it undercuts again not only the oathrequirement, but the writing requirement. There's simplyno intellectually honest way to separate an EEOCregulation that says an oath is technical and can be fixedafter the filing deadline, but a writing is not technical. There's no intellectually honest way to do that. The samereasoning that supports the petitioner's argument withrespect to oath applies to -- to the writing requirement. Finally, we think it undercuts the policy ofconciliation in the statute because, in fact, the -- thetechnical regulation -- the -- the Solicitor General inhis brief says -- and this is in the brief in the --urging the -- the Court to take cert, pages and ,that the charges sworn to or affirmed before the employeris required to take any action -- we don't think we'vemisunderstood what the agency's practice is. It's th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC certainly been our experience that you don't get a noticeof any kind until you get a verified notice. That is thepractice in -- that -- that was what happened in thiscase. The -- the Solicitor General, at least in itsearlier briefs, suggested that that was precisely thepractice that they followed here. So, we think thatultimately the regulation also undercuts the policy in thestatute for prompt notice to the employer, which againundercuts the policy of conciliation that's embodied inthe statute. QUESTION: Well, the Government -- theGovernment has asserted that that's not the case, and ifthat -- if -- I think we have to accept that unless youhave solid evidence to the contrary that -- that in factthey think the notice is normally given and should havebeen given when -- here when the -- when the charge wasreceived --MR. BELL: They have said that today.QUESTION: -- even imperfect --MR. BELL: I -- I -- and I of course sawtheir --QUESTION: Well, unless you know for sure thatit's not. And I agree with you that if -- if that is notthe policy and if -- if they're being inconsistent inviewing it as a charge for one purpose but not as a charge th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC for another purpose, then -- then we have a differentproblem. But I don't know that we can decide the case on-- on the basis of simply your -- your guess that thejudgment -- that the Government may not be accurate in --in what the policy is. MR. BELL: Well, again, I -- I refer the Courtto the Government's brief in support of amicus of -- sorry-- of granting the writ, pages and . I would alsourge the Court to look at page of the Government'sbrief --QUESTION: Mr. Bell, a lawyer representing theGovernment made a representation before the Court thismorning that the EEOC should have immediately sent thatcharge to the employer. I think we must take that to bethe Government's position. MR. BELL: That does -- I mean, I'm not arguingwith that. I'm just pointing out that that seemsinconsistent with what the Solicitor General's earlierbriefing said in this case. That's the way we read it.That's the way amicus read the Government's own brief. Wedidn't --QUESTION: Well, now it's clarified what itsposition is. MR. BELL: I -- I understand. The -- if there is a -- a hardship created by th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC applying the rule, the statute of limitations, it's nodifferent from the hardship that always occurs when --when someone falls outside the statute of limitations. And this Court's opinion in Zipes exists for a reason, andthat's to give relief if someone, for good cause, makingout a good claim for equitable tolling, does have a basisfor -- for arguing that the statute shouldn't be appliedto him. This Court has ruled that the timely filing ofthe charge is not jurisdictional and, as a consequence, issubject to equitable tolling. And courts who have --which have applied this rule as it's written -- I mean --sorry -- the statute as it's written have resorted toequitable tolling when the circumstances suggested thatthat was appropriate to do.QUESTION: Mr. Bell, this was a deferral case.This was a -day case because the State agency.MR. BELL: Yes, Justice Ginsburg. QUESTION: Do we know whether in this caseanything had been done at the State agency level? MR. BELL: Your Honor, the charge was not sentto the State until it was put under oath just like itwas --QUESTION: Well, that same -- the same formal --whatever they called it -- form X, when it was sent to theemployer was also sent to the State agency. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. BELL: That's correct. After the statutorydeadline. That was the -- that's the only involvement theState agency had in this. And again, when you fall on the wrong side of astatute of limitations, it's always going to seem harsh toyou. But if -- if a limitations is to have any meaningwhatsoever, you need to enforce it. QUESTION: Is the apparent inconsistency betweenwhat the Government says at page of the brief insupport of granting the petition and its representationhere explained by the fact that at page the Governmentsays the complaint must be -- the charge must be verifiedbefore it requires a response --MR. BELL: I --QUESTION: -- but then there is anotherrequirement for simply notifying the employer that thecharge has been made? It seems to me --MR. BELL: The -- the only requirement in thehandbook that we saw -- I mean, the handbook that wasfiled -- that we received on Friday does not mention oathat all. I mean, we -- we have looked at it and there's nomention of oath whatsoever. So, it's -- it's verydifficult to know, you know, the role of the oath playing.The handbook also says that the onlycircumstance where you have to give notice of a charge th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC prior to the time that -- that the charge is -- isperfected -- I think is the term that they use -- I mean,they -- the -- the regulations talk about perfectedcharges, charges. They talk about potential charges. Imean, they're really all over the map. I mean, they -- interms of establishing a bright line rule, this is just theopposite. They establish a fuzzy line rule in -- in theirregulations. But the only time, Your Honor, that the --they mention giving notice of a charge is if it's within days of the expiration of the filing deadline. That --that's the only reference I was able to find. And it's also quite interesting that in --QUESTION: I don't understand that. I don'tunderstand what you said. MR. BELL: If --QUESTION: They only give notice of the chargeif the charge is received within days of the --MR. BELL: As I read this manual that was justserved -- served on us on Friday, that's -- that's exactlywhat it says. That's the only circumstance I can see. The --QUESTION: Where they will give notice of anunperfected charge.MR. BELL: Yes. if it's considered a minimally-- what they call a minimally sufficient charge. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: They won't give notice unless thecharge is received --MR. BELL: Right. QUESTION: -- right up at the end of a deadline.MR. BELL: That -- that is the way I read thishandbook. I think it's also interesting in looking at thehandbook, Your Honor --QUESTION: Do you have a section of the handbookwhere that's --MR. BELL: I think it's -- yes, sir. I thinkit's on -- it's in section .. It looks like on page., Your Honor, and it's special procedure, title VIIand ADA. When it is clear --QUESTION: That's not a page. You got to giveme another page. The page is down the bottom. -, -.MR. BELL: - --QUESTION: -? Let me try that. MR. BELL: -- is what -- what I have. And itwould be section .(a)(). It's what -- what happenswhen the EEOC receives a charge by mail. And as Iunderstand, it's only when it's within days of thedeadline that they send notice of the charge to theemployer.Your Honor, I think it's -- or, Your Honors, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC it's also significant looking at .(a)() of thishandbook on amending charges, that the agency's own manualmentions nothing about amending to add verification. Nothing. They talk about amending to cure the common lawsort of problem, Justice Ginsburg, not the -- not theoath --QUESTION: What you have just said suggests thatthis compliance manual is -- is in need of amendment, butthe compliance manual, unlike the regulation that we have,is not something that gets Chevron deference. This hasnot gone through any kind of notice and comment --MR. BELL: I understand, and this -- of course,this regulation was not passed with notice and commentrulemaking either, which under the Mead decision gives itless weight than it might have if -- if the regulation --QUESTION: I thought the Congress authorized theEEOC to make procedural rules, didn't it? MR. BELL: They did. QUESTION: And that's what these are. This --the relation-back rule.MR. BELL: Your Honor, I suppose we -- lawyerscould differ on whether it's a procedural or substantiverule. Whether it's procedural or substantive, it changedthe -- it changes --QUESTION: Well, what would you call rule (c) th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure? (c) of theFederal Rules of Civil Procedure.MR. BELL: Yes. QUESTION: Is that a rule of procedure? Therelation-back rule?MR. BELL: Yes, Your Honor, it is. QUESTION: Well, I'm not sure that Mead -- does-- I don't -- does Mead say that -- that even rulesadopted without notice and comment are entitled to Chevrondeference so long as they were authorized? I mean, Ithought all rules had to authorized whether they do noticeand comment or not. What difference does it make whetherthe statute authorizes the -- the issuance of theseprocedural rules? You make the point that they weren'tadopted by notice and comment, which is what Mead says isthe only really safe harbor. So, they were authorized. Imean, all rules have to be authorized. I mean, that's --that's the starting point, isn't it? MR. BELL: Well, and -- and one of the problemswith this rule is that there's no delegation of authorityto the agency to define the term charge, which is, inessence, what they've done. And they've defined it assomething other than what -- what Congress has said, whichis something that's in oath -- under oath and in writing. That's the problem. Again -- and I agree it doesn't make th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC any difference what procedure is used if they've -- ifthey've overstepped the bounds and have interpreted thestatute in a way that's inconsistent with what thestatutory language requires. That's what we think they'vedone here. Again, the EEOC itself did not view what wasfiled as a charge under their own regulations, under --under the statute that it exists. I think that -- that issignificant. The EEOC doesn't need to change the statute inorder to help claimants. They can follow the statute andtell claimants, you need to put your complaint in -- inwriting and you need to put it under oath. All we'retalking about is a declaration. The EEOC's failure to dothat, which apparently they do fail to do, should not belaid at the door of the respondent. And again, equitable tolling is available underZipes anytime an unfair result is reached. And that --that's the way these problems should be solved. But just because equitable tolling isappropriate in some cases does not mean this Court shouldgrant the EEOC the right to pass basically a prophylacticrule that -- that says --QUESTION: But how would you distinguish fromthe point of view of the claimant who is filing the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC original charge, sends a letter, as here, and then theEEOC, if it were super-efficient, would have gotten outthe form in good time? MR. BELL: It did in this case, Your Honor. This man had the form within the days. He's the onewho sat on it. QUESTION: How many days did he have left?MR. BELL: He had it for approximately a month,at least weeks.QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. Bell. Mr. Schnapper, you have minutes remaining.REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF ERIC SCHNAPPERON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERMR. SCHNAPPER: Thank you, Your Honor. The compliance manual in this case squarelysupports the representation that the Government has madetoday with regard to its practice. The relevant provisionis at the bottom of page -. It is section .(b), andit states, when the correspondence contains all theinformation necessary to begin investigating -- which isclearly true here -- constitutes a clear and timelyrequest for EEOC to act, and does not express concernsabout confidentiality or retaliation, acknowledge thecorrespondence by using a form letter, and -- and serve acopy of the document on the respondent. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Now, the absence of any reference toverification is critical. It is simply not a prerequisiteto this command to agency officials. The manual iscrystal clear and entirely consistent with what theGovernment has said. In addition, there are cases in which theGovernment with the EEOC has indeed served --QUESTION: -- manual say about verification,later verification?MR. SCHNAPPER: I don't believe the manualaddresses it. It is not relevant to the commands of themanual as to when service is to --QUESTION: Well, one -- one might infer thatthen that post-filing verification is not authorized.MR. SCHNAPPER: It's expressly authorized by theregulation in this case. I mean, I don't know that themanual reiterates what's in the regulation. Theregulation is crystal clear. There's not a dispute hereas to what -- whether the regulation authorized this --this particular practice. There are, indeed, cases in which the EEOC hasserved nonverified charges. You'll find examples of thatin the Philburn and Price cases which are mentioned in thecert petition. With regard to the applicability of Chevron, we th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC are in agreement with Justice Scalia that the presence orabsence of notice and comment rulemaking is not relevant. If that were critical, then Chevron deference wouldn'tapply to most procedural regulations which don't requirenotice and comment rulemaking. That would surely standeverything on its head. Justice O'Connor correctlypointed out in the Commercial Office Products case thatdeference to procedural interpretations by an agency areparticularly appropriate. In addition, it in fact happened that there wasnotice and comment rulemaking in this case with regard tothese regulations in . The cites to that are in theamicus brief filed by the EEAC.The question here, as Justice Ginsburg noted, isnot whether a charge has to be verified but when. The --the statutory language is not clear. It could reasonablyhave been read by the agency to require verification priorto the applicable deadline. If the agency had writtenthat regulation, it would have properly have to have beenupheld under Chevron. But the -- the statutory languagewas ambiguous, and this is precisely the circumstanceunder which, under Chevron, the resolution of that mattershould be left to the agency.Thank you. CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: Thank you, Mr. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Schnapper. The case is submitted. (Whereupon, at : p.m., the case in theabove-entitled matter was submitted.) th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC 