 IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XCHEVRON U.S.A., INC., Petitioner ::v. : No. -MARIO ECHAZABAL. :- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XWashington, D.C.Wednesday, February , The above-entitled matter came on for oralargument before the Supreme Court of the United States at: a.m.APPEARANCES:STEPHEN M. SHAPIRO, ESQ., Chicago, Illinois; on behalf ofthe Petitioner.LISA S. BLATT, ESQ., Assistant to the Solicitor General,Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on behalf ofthe United States, as amicus curiae, supporting thePetitioner. SAMUEL R. BAGENSTOS, Cambridge, Massachusetts; on behalfof the Respondent. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC C O N T E N T SORAL ARGUMENT OF STEPHEN M. SHAPIRO, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioner LISA S. BLATT, ESQ.On behalf of the United States, as amicus curiae, supporting the Petitioner SAMUEL R. BAGENSTOS, ESQ.On behalf of the Respondent REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OFSTEPHEN M. SHAPIRO, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioner PAGE th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC P R O C E E D I N G S(: a.m.)CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: We'll hear argumentnow in No. -, Chevron U.S.A., Inc. v. MarioEchazabal.Mr. Shapiro.ORAL ARGUMENT OF STEPHEN M. SHAPIROON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERMR. SHAPIRO: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice, andmay it please the Court:According to the National Institutes of Health,hepatitis C kills , to , people in this countryevery year, and it's the largest cause of livertransplants. This is a progressive disease, which in manycases goes without any symptoms for a period of time, butin a large percentage of cases, it results in cirrhosisand liver failure. The disease in this instance waschronic, active, and severe, according to the standards ofthe NIH. Now, NIOSH's Occupational Health Guidelines alsoconfirm that the chemicals in this factory were livertoxins. The ordinary worker can withstand that exposure,which is consistent with OSHA standards. But theGovernment's guidelines say again and again that employeesshould receive medical tests before beginning work to look th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC out for special vulnerability. NIOSH's statement aboutphenol, one of the chemicals here, is typical, and Iquote from the guideline. Liver damage may occur. Persons with a history of abnormalities of the liver wouldbe expected to be at increased risk from exposure. Now, none of this matters according to the NinthCircuit because injury to self is beyond the employer'slegitimate concern. But we believe that the plainlanguage of the statute and its structure tell acompletely different story.The defense provision in the statute, which issection (a), first speaks in general terms. QUESTION: Where do we find that, Mr. Shapiro?MR. SHAPIRO: That is found on page a of thepetition appendix. QUESTION: a?MR. SHAPIRO: a, Your Honor, yes.QUESTION: Actually it's a, (a), at thebottom --MR. SHAPIRO: It begins on a, but thepertinent provision, (a), is right there on a.QUESTION: You first referred to the generalrule. That's what I thought. MR. SHAPIRO: And the general provision says itis permissible to use qualification standards and tests th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC that are job-related and consistent with businessnecessity. This is generic language and it does notexclude injury to self. After this general provision, thestatute --QUESTION: Which one is the general provision?MR. SHAPIRO: The -- the first part is (a),which states: in general. That's the general defenseprovision. And right after it comes a particular example insubpart (b), which refers to risks to other individuals. And that, of course, is just an example that fits withinthe general rule here, and we know it's just an examplebecause Congress said that permissible standards mayinclude such a test. This is obviously not an exhaustivedescription.QUESTION: And why isn't it an exhaustivedescription at least of that category, of the category ofdirect threat to health or safety? I can see that thewords, may include, may include this and it may includethat, but when the -- when the Congress is describingdirect threat and it has only the health of otherindividuals, why for that part isn't it self-contained? Imean, you say it has a plain meaning. It would have beenmuch plainer if Congress had said: of the individual orothers, if that's what it meant. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. SHAPIRO: We think the -- the phrase, mayinclude, is illustrative of matters that might fit intothe general description that comes just before and thatinjury to -- to other persons and injury to self are --are both matters that fit within the general descriptionof business necessity, public safety --QUESTION: Well, there's some legislativehistory that suggests that indeed it wasn't intended toallow review of danger or risk to the employee himself.MR. SHAPIRO: We found several instances that wecite in our brief where Congress was talking about injuryto -- to the individual himself. So, again, it's not anexclusive reference. And I think if you look at thestructure of the statute, Justice O'Connor, it again helpsto answer this question. QUESTION: It's -- surely it's exclusive to someextent. I mean, Mr. Shapiro, you certainly wouldn't arguethat a qualification could include a requirement that the-- that the individual not pose an indirect threat to thehealth or safety of other individuals. MR. SHAPIRO: That might be an inference fromthat language --QUESTION: Right. So --MR. SHAPIRO: -- that that would be inconsistentwith the express language. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: Right. So, I guess the question ishow strong is the exclusionary inference --MR. SHAPIRO: We think it's -- it's particularlyweak because the -- the provision that comes right beforethis provision that deals with discrimination makes itclear that the employer may use medical examinations andmay make an offer of employment contingent on the resultsof those medical examinations. That's in thediscrimination section. QUESTION: Where -- where is that now? What areyou --MR. SHAPIRO: That is in section (d), whichis quoted in our reply brief at page .QUESTION: Where do we find that? Reply brief?MR. SHAPIRO: At reply brief page . It saysthe employer may require a medical examination and maycondition an offer of employment on the results of thatexamination. Again, the focus is perfectly general inscope. The exam is lawful if it is job-related andconsistent with business need.Now, we don't think it's necessary to resort tolegislative history in this case, but there is aconference report here that stated that this act does notintend to override any -- any -- legitimate medicalstandards or requirements established by employers for th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC safety-sensitive positions. QUESTION: Well, Mr. Shapiro, as I go throughthis statute, under your theory of the case, beginning onpage a, , do you concede, for purposes of thestatutory analysis, that the employee here was a qualifiedindividual? MR. SHAPIRO: We -- we deny that he was aqualified individual. We make two arguments: one, that-- that we have a business necessity not to hire somebodywho would be killed in this particular job, but also thathe's not qualified.QUESTION: So, as -- as you see the case, couldwe dispose of the case by reading just -- andend it right there --MR. SHAPIRO: Absolutely. QUESTION: -- and find what we're talking aboutin defenses just does not bear on our determination oneway or the other? Obviously, you look at the wholecontext of the statute to make sure that what you're doingis consistent -- consistent with it.MR. SHAPIRO: I -- I would agree with that, andwe --QUESTION: It's hard to say he's not qualifiedwhen he worked there for the other contractor in the samecircumstances for years or so. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. SHAPIRO: The qualification standard focuseson whether he can perform the job on an ongoing basis inthe near term. And -- and if the person would becomeseriously ill or die in the near term, that person can'tcarry out the job functions. QUESTION: But specifically deals withqualification standards. I mean, don't you think that thequalification standards portion has to be read in parimateria with the -- with the -- with the provisiondefining a qualified individual? I mean, it seems to methe two are addressing exactly the same thing. MR. SHAPIRO: There is linguistic overlap andthere is practical overlap. A person who is not qualifiedis a person --QUESTION: I mean, you wouldn't -- you wouldn'tsay that -- that a person is not a qualified individual ifhe would pose an indirect threat to the health or safetyof others, would you? Because that's clearly excluded. You cannot use that as a qualification standard. I -- Ijust don't think it's an easy way out. I just -- it is inanother section, but I think that other section has to beread to -- to be corresponding to the qualificationstandards. MR. SHAPIRO: Our view is that there's overlapbetween qualification and business necessity. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: Are we ultimately --MR. SHAPIRO: But they're not coextensive. QUESTION: Are we ultimately asking thequestion, is he qualified?MR. SHAPIRO: That's the first question. Thesecond question is, if he is qualified, because, asJustice O'Connor said, he can do the job in the short run,which we don't think he can, then the question is whetherwe have a business need to retain him.QUESTION: Well, but let me -- when we gothrough the whole statute, including , do youultimately say we come to the conclusion that afterreading the whole statute, he is not qualified, as thatterm is used in ?MR. SHAPIRO: That's our principal submission. Our backup --QUESTION: Now, you don't even rely on the EEOCregulation? At least you're not arguing from that.MR. SHAPIRO: We -- we -- it's one of our -- wehave several arguments in the alternative, yes.QUESTION: The regulation specifically says theindividual -- the threat to the individual can beconsidered.MR. SHAPIRO: We believe we -- we can win thecase on that ground. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: But the Ninth Circuit thought thatwent beyond the clear terms of the statute.MR. SHAPIRO: Yes, and we think that thatregulation is perfectly consistent with -- with thegeneral defense provision, and we believe we can win thecase under that regulation and, indeed, that it's entitledto Chevron deference because this agency had legislativerulemaking power to issue that standard.QUESTION: But then you give the -- then yougive the agency no deference at all when the agency says,yes, of course, he's a qualified individual. He can dothe job. He's done it and he hasn't dropped dead forthose years. But so you say don't give the EEOC anyrespect on -- on the qualified individual, but give themChevron deference on the . MR. SHAPIRO: We --QUESTION: So, it's kind of when you like whatthe agency says, you respect it, and when you don't likeit, you don't respect it. MR. SHAPIRO: Well, I would note that the -- theagency in its cert stage amicus brief said that thequalification issue is whether the individual can performthe job in the near term. And we agree with that. But wesay this person cannot do that because --QUESTION: Well, if you agree with what they th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC said -- they have spelled it out what their position is intheir brief, and they said, in no uncertain terms, this isa qualified individual. MR. SHAPIRO: But you'll -- you'll note --QUESTION: That's just in the brief, though. They didn't issue a rule to that effect, did they? MR. SHAPIRO: Absolutely. That's just abrief --QUESTION: And we're -- we're not paying anyattention to what they say in briefs, are we? (Laughter.) MR. SHAPIRO: Well, they say -- they say helpfulthings in the brief too. They note that firemen and --and airline pilots and others that would succumb to anillness while they're conducting their jobs in the nearterm are disqualified. They're not qualified to do thejob. And the reason is that safety considerations areparamount there, they say. Well, they're paramount in this refinery too. There were five physicians here who said this individualwas at imminent risk of death --QUESTION: Just out of curiosity, why does hewant to kill himself? MR. SHAPIRO: It's an old story, Your Honor. Some people do not listen to their doctors. I won't th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC speculate on --QUESTION: All right. You say -- I mean -- thereason I ask that question is I suspect in any real case,since people don't really want to kill themselves, there'san argument about how risky it is.MR. SHAPIRO: Well, if you read the cases thatwe've cited, it's amazing how frequently people with --QUESTION: In all those other cases, it seemedto me -- in all the cases that you cited --MR. SHAPIRO: Yes. QUESTION: -- there was a different issue atstake, and that in part was whether he could do the job.And here, perhaps unrealistically we are assuming, for thesake of this case, that he can do the job perfectly well.MR. SHAPIRO: We -- we don't assume that.QUESTION: All right. You don't. But suppose-- I don't know. I thought the issue is presented in thecontext where we're forced to make that assumption. Idon't think anyone denies that if he can't do the job withreasonable accommodation, you have the right not to hirehim. I don't know that anyone denies that one. MR. SHAPIRO: We say he -- he is like the steelworker with vertigo who can fall --QUESTION: Fine. MR. SHAPIRO: -- off the beam at any moment -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: Fine. If that's correct -- doesanyone doubt that proposition of law? MR. SHAPIRO: I hope not.QUESTION: No, all right. So, this becomesserious as a matter of law only if we assume that he cando the job. And I just wonder under those circumstanceswhether in any real case the issue isn't an argument abouthow risky it is, and if that's so, my question would be,why doesn't this statute try to leave that matter up tohim? If he does the job for you okay, that's yourbusiness. And if he wants to run greater risks than youthink he should, that's his business. MR. SHAPIRO: This statute rejects that thesisin the medical examination provisions, recognizing thatthe employer has a stake in this issue. There are manylegitimate interests that the employer has.QUESTION: Is it the case that it would violatethe Occupational Safety and Health Act for Chevron to hirethis person under those circumstances? Do we know that?MR. SHAPIRO: Arguably it would, Your Honor,because this is a known hazard.QUESTION: Does that have to be considered thenin the balance of qualification? And the court below, Iguess, didn't resolve that. MR. SHAPIRO: It should -- it should factor into th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC the business necessity evaluation because we do have abusiness necessity to avoid violating State law andFederal law. And here there --QUESTION: What section of the OSHA would youpoint to on that? MR. SHAPIRO: I would point to the generalduty --QUESTION: And is it -- is it in the materialbefore us? MR. SHAPIRO: Oh, I -- I see we -- we didn't putit in our appendix, but it's the general duty provision ofthe OSHA statute cited in our opening brief and our replybrief. And what it says is that if you've recognized ahazard, you cannot send the employee into the jaws of thathazard.QUESTION: Where -- where is the text of thatthat you're reading now?MR. SHAPIRO: It's the general duty clause --QUESTION: Maybe you can supply it later ratherthan take your time now --MR. SHAPIRO: Yes. We'll supply it for you.QUESTION: -- because we would be interested. QUESTION: You were -- you were about to say whythe -- the employer has an interest other than the merecharitable one in not letting an employee kill himself. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. SHAPIRO: Yes. QUESTION: What -- what is -- what are theinterests? MR. SHAPIRO: There are several --QUESTION: Other than not violating OSHA. MR. SHAPIRO: -- several interests. There --there is Federal law compliance. There is State lawcompliance. There is State tort law liability that we'reconcerned about.QUESTION: Does Workman's Comp go up if -- if hesuffers?could.MR. SHAPIRO: It -- it could. It certainlyQUESTION: Suppose the Federal statute said thisis -- this preempts any inconsistent duty, that theemployer is not liable for compliance with this statute.MR. SHAPIRO: Well, we would hope thatpreemption would work that way, but preemption issues inthe States court often do not. QUESTION: Let's assume -- let's assume it does. Is there still a business necessity?MR. SHAPIRO: Oh, yes, there still is.QUESTION: And what is that? MR. SHAPIRO: That's -- that's preservation ofemployment relations, avoidance of adverse publicity, and th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC -- and fear of criminal responsibility. There have beenmany criminal prosecutions, and courts never -- never holdthat -- that general criminal laws are -- are preempted byFederal safety legislation. So, I don't think that's --that's any defense in that situation. There are -- in all well-run businesses today,the model of the business is safety is our business. For years in this country, the industrial policy has beensafety comes first. So, this is per se a legitimatebusiness interest in this context. Now, our -- our friend's argument to thecontrary, interestingly, is an exact replay of theargument that was made to the EEOC back in when theagency adopted its rules. The argument was made then thatif you refer to risk to self, it's going to encouragepaternalism and encourage negative stereotypes. But theagency rejected that argument, explaining it wasinconsistent with the purpose of the statute and wasinconsistent with a long line of cases under theRehabilitation Act. And the agency's judgment here, webelieve, is entitled to Chevron deference. QUESTION: Wasn't that the argument that wasmade in Johnson's Control that this is unsafe the -- the-- allowing a woman of child-bearing capacity to work --was it -- what was the toxic substance -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. SHAPIRO: Yes. QUESTION: -- that -- that the same kind ofevidence that you have about how dangerous it was, it's asdangerous to the woman, dangerous to the fetus?MR. SHAPIRO: That was evaluated under adifferent legal standard, the BOFQ standard, which is muchmore stringent. This Court has said the businessnecessity standard is more flexible and -- and permissive. And that was a case where the Government said there was noserious risk, and all you had to do is take a simpleprecaution and the lead would not injure the -- thefetuses of -- of the woman. And there was discriminationbetween the sexes, which was the real thrust of theCourt's decision, and there's nothing like that here. QUESTION: But I thought the BFOQ goes togetherwith an explicit sex --MR. SHAPIRO: Yes.QUESTION: -- what do they call it? Disparatetreatment. MR. SHAPIRO: Exactly. QUESTION: And that here -- and the businessnecessity goes with neutral rule disparate effect. Areyou saying that's what we have here? MR. SHAPIRO: Business necessity applies to anyscreening test or medical examination or qualification th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC standard that the employer uses. And this was somethingthat the business community fought hard for in Congress toget this flexible test. It's repeated three or four timesin -- in title I of the statute, and -- and to disregardit here we think defeats the very basis of thislegislation. I see I've used a great deal of my time. Iwonder if I might reserve the balance of the time forrebuttal. QUESTION: Very well, Mr. Shapiro. Ms. Blatt, we'll hear from you. ORAL ARGUMENT OF LISA S. BLATTON BEHALF OF THE UNITED STATES,AS AMICUS CURIAE, SUPPORTING THE PETITIONERMS. BLATT: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice, andmay it please the Court:If I could first address just how the statuteworks with respect to whether an individual is qualified. It proceeds in two basic steps. The plaintiff has theburden of proof to show that he can perform the essentialfundamental job tasks of the job and that he satisfies theemployer's other qualification standards. Now, if a particular qualification standardscreens out someone because he is disabled, then theburden shifts to the employer to justify that standard as th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC job-related and consistent with business necessity. Andwhat -- the EEOC's regulatory threat to self regulation isone example of a subset of a valid standard that is job-related and consistent with business necessity.The statute recognizes that a validqualification standard may include a safety requirementthat an individual not pose a safety threat to others inthe work place. The EEOC has reasonably concluded that aparallel defense is available if the individual would posea significant safety threat to himself. QUESTION: I -- I have one question. I guessit's a -- maybe a soft variety of the expressio/exclusioargument. But the theory of Chevron deference is that the-- that the Congress basically left a blank place to befilled in in whatever way the agency think is best. Whywould Congress have wanted to leave, as it were, a hiatuson the question of individual safety when it specificallyattended to safety of others? It just seems like an oddthing to leave up to the agency when it was that close tothe subject in -- in what it did require.MS. BLATT: Well, the context is very importanthere. What the direct threat to others -- the statutorythreat to others defense -- is is a codification of thisCourt's decision in Arline, and that arose in the contextof a teacher with a contagious disease that posed a direct th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC threat to others. But Congress expressly anticipated thatother types of safety threats would be addressed by themore general business necessity. Congress simply didn'taddress safety threats to self or safety threats to othersin the public and not necessarily the work place.QUESTION: Perhaps Congress thought like JusticeBreyer, that it's quite implausible that anybody wouldwant to kill himself. Right? I mean, it -- it is notsomething that leaps to mind, that you -- you have to stopsomebody from taking a job that's going to kill him,whereas stop somebody from taking a job in which he'sgoing to hurt somebody else, that's something you wouldworry about.MS. BLATT: The threat to self context can comeup where an employee wants to either, A, assume the riskor, B, there's a disagreement about whether that risk infact exists. Now, the question is, is when an employer canprove, meet a burden of showing a documented andscientific basis for finding a significant risk ofsubstantial harm, the employer has legitimate interests inrefraining from injuring or killing its workers. The merefact that the employee consents to that risk cannot trumpthe employer's interests, no more than it could if theemployees agreed to assume the risk of working in an th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC environment with a person with tuberculosis. In bothcases, the employer has legitimate interests. Now, at the same time, the legislative historyshows that Congress was concerned about employmentdecisions based on stereotype or group-based predictionsand unfounded fears about disabled people posing safetythreats. And what the regulations do is carefully balancethe employer's legitimate interest with the rights ofdisabled persons to be free of these prejudicial decisions by requiring an individualized determination that looks atthe person's actual medical condition and recognizes thatdisabilities pose varying levels of side effects andlimitations or safety threats and requires an objectivedetermination based on --QUESTION: Well, they have a physician's examand report. Is that enough? MS. BLATT: The regulations require it to bebased on objective or other medical examination.QUESTION: Well, so this --MS. BLATT: And that may -- well may be.QUESTION: So, is that enough in -- in the viewof the Government? MS. BLATT: In the view of the Government, ifthe medical opinion is reasonable, then that's enough.Now, in -- in this case -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: But you take the position in thebrief that perhaps it isn't. I was curious about that.MS. BLATT: The position that the EEOC argued tothe Ninth Circuit, which the Ninth Circuit did not addressand would be available on remand, was that there was afactual dispute that summary judgment should not beentered on whether there was a reasonable determination. But employers are entitled to rely on the reasonablemedical judgments that reflect available current --current medical knowledge. QUESTION: Can I ask you a question about thereg? Because normally you should, of course, defer to theagency's regs. I understand that. But this particularreg is surprising the way it's written; that is, itdoesn't say there are a lot of qualification standards. One of them is a direct threat to individuals, contagiousdisease problem. Another one is the suicidal employee. Rather it has the definition of the word, direct threat,and that's where it sticks the word self. And it appearsthen to be talking about a definition in the statute,direct threat to others. And it defines direct threat toothers as direct threat to self and others. Now, if whatit's doing is explaining the words, direct threat toothers, I don't see how you can define the words, directthreat to others, to deal with a completely different kind th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC of problem involving direct threat to self.MS. BLATT: With all due respect, JusticeBreyer, what the -- what the agency did -- and it's onpage a of the petition -- is said that a validqualification standard includes a requirement that therenot be a direct threat to the individual. And then itseparately defined direct threat in terms of the waydirect threat was defined by Congress. QUESTION: And you left out three things. Itsays, direct threat to the health and safety of theindividual or others. See .(r) defining directthreat, which refers you back to the reg in which whatthey seem to be doing is defining the words, directthreat.MS. BLATT: But what -- what the agency did, asa matter of administrative convenience in protecting therights of disabled persons, is that in -- in crafting aregulatory threat to self defense, it wanted to ensurethat the same protections would be given to workers andthat there had to be a showing of a significant risk ofsubstantial harm. At the same time, this was beneficialto employers. So they wouldn't be confused by twodifferent standards, it would be the same standard. The agency could have accomplished the sameresult had it said, well, we want this direct threat to th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC others that follows the statute and as far as threats toself were concerned, it could have just avoided using theword, direct threat, and said, don't adopt a qualificationstandard unless it screens out significant safety risksthat cause substantial harm. So, the mere fact -- it wasadministrative convenience to -- to have a paralleldefense and using the terminology of direct threat. QUESTION: May I ask you, Ms. Blatt? Do youthink -- does the Government think that it was proper forthe district court to enter summary judgment in the case?MS. BLATT: Yes, on the -- the EEOC argued thatthe summary judgment on -- on direct threat with respectto petitioner's argument. And that would be available forthe Ninth Circuit to consider on remand if this Courtupheld the -- the regulation. QUESTION: Is the district court saying thatthose two other doctors don't count because they weren'tbefore -- I thought you had just said, in response to anearlier question, that that would be open if the -- onremand, the question of whether this person was in fact arisk to himself because, as I understand it, there weretwo witnesses that said he -- he was not.MS. BLATT: Petitioner is arguing that itsmedical -- physicians advised that there was -- that therewas a direct threat here. And what respondent argued in th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC response to that on summary judgment is that thosedecisions weren't reasonable. And we just think theparties have a genuine fact dispute about --QUESTION: But the district judge said theydidn't. The district judge said, I reject those twowitnesses. They come too late. Goodbye. Summaryjudgment. So --MS. BLATT: It's -- but what's relevant is notthat the opinions were submitted late, it's whether at thetime -- the -- the relevant inquiries at the time theemployment decision is made, but you can still ignore whatthe medical literature says and make an unreasonabledecision.QUESTION: So, you think -- you're saying thedistrict court erred as to that extent in saying summaryjudgment, no trial. This person is a danger to himself.MS. BLATT: The United States hasn'tindependently briefed it, but that is what the EEOC arguedto the Ninth Circuit. And it does turn on complicatedmedical questions that would be appropriately addressed bythe Ninth Circuit on remand. What -- what we think thisCourt should do is hold that respondent was a qualifiedindividual, but the employer is entitled to show that he'snot qualified because it has a valid qualificationstandard that -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: But do you have a position on thequestion whether, as a matter of law, the defendant hassustained the burden of proof that it was a reasonablemedical decision? MS. BLATT: The EEOC argued below no.QUESTION: I'm not asking what the EEO arguedbelow. I'm asking what is the Government's position onthat issue. MS. BLATT: I don't know what the United States'position on that is, but we don't have any reason todisagree with the EEOC. We just haven't independentlylooked at it. But the EEOC certainly makes a reasonableargument that there was a factual dispute on it andsummary judgment was inappropriate. QUESTION: Was inappropriate. MS. BLATT: Inappropriate, right, that there wasa genuine fact dispute about whether the direct threattest was met here, and we think the Ninth Circuit shouldbe able to -- to address that in the first instance. QUESTION: Address whether -- whether thatargument is true or not. MS. BLATT: Right, that because there is a validregulation that the EEOC promulgated and it's entitled todeference, it should be upheld, and there's just aquestion about whether it was met in this particular case. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: Ms. Blatt, I -- I find it peculiar tosay he was a qualified individual but he didn't meet theemployer's qualification standards. I mean, what is aqualified individual except one who can do what theemployer's standard says has to be done? MS. BLATT: May I answer, Mr. Chief Justice?QUESTION: Yes. MS. BLATT: It's just -- if I could give you theexample of the airline pilot with a contagious disease. He's qualified to fly the plane, but he may, nonetheless,pose an unacceptable safety risk, and that's a validqualification standard to -- to not hire him. It's just aquestion of burden of proof basically, Justice --QUESTION: Thank you, Ms. Blatt. Mr. Bagenstos, we'll hear from you. Am Ipronouncing your name correctly? ORAL ARGUMENT OF SAMUEL R. BAGENSTOSON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTMR. BAGENSTOS: Yes, Your Honor.Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice, and may it pleasethe Court:The exclusion of individuals with disabilitiesfrom jobs for their own protection was a principal targetof the Americans with Disabilities Act, but the threat toself defense proposed by Chevron here would provide th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC affirmative legal authorization for precisely that sort ofconduct. For three principal reasons, we think it clearthat Congress did not authorize such a threat to selfdefense, the first simply being the statutory text andparticularly the change from the EEOC's prior regulationsunder the Rehabilitation Act which specifically included athreat to self disqualification to the ADA's direct threatprovision which is limited to threats to others. The second being the consistent jurisprudenceunder Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of , a statutethat provided a significant model for Title I of the ADA,that also responds in significant measure to a problem ofpaternalistic discrimination and --QUESTION: Just tell us, if you would, why theemployee would want to take a job where the doctor saysit's going to kill you? MR. BAGENSTOS: Well, I -- I think that --QUESTION: These toxins will cause your earlydeath. Now, why does the employee want that job? MR. BAGENSTOS: Well, I think there aren'treally employees who want to do that.I think Justice Breyer and Justice Scalia'spoints made in the first half of the argument are welltaken. When Congress was looking at this issue, it wasn't th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC thinking about the largely fanciful case where theemployee -- where the employee wants to -- wants to gointo a suicidal situation, but was thinking about the runof cases where, you know, there -- there's a small risk,there's an overstatement of the risk, there's some disputeabout the risk. The -- and then the question is whodecides. QUESTION: And what is it here? MR. BAGENSTOS: And -- and here I think it'sclear there's a dispute about the nature of the risk. Ithink it's also clear if you look to what -- even the --even the testimony of Chevron's doctors is here. It's asmall risk. Right? So -- so, when the -- when thedoctors are asked what is the probability that this isgoing to happen, they can't put a number on it. Dr. Tangclosest he -- who is the -- who is the most credentialeddoctor for Chevron's side of the case, the closest he cancome is he says, well, something like percent. This isat page of the joint appendix. So, what we're reallysaying here is that, you know, people get injured in thiswork place from time to time. Maybe there's a percentincremental risk. Even if you accept Chevron'sargument --QUESTION: May I interrupt you just for amoment? Perhaps you're right on the facts of this case, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC but the legal rule that you're contending for seems itwould apply even if the risk was percent and weeksfrom today. MR. BAGENSTOS: I think that -- I think that iscorrect, Your Honor. And -- and my response to JusticeO'Connor was I think it's appropriate in crafting a rulefor Congress to think that the percent death weeksfrom today cases aren't really going to arise, that therun of cases are going to be like this. QUESTION: How sure can you be about that? There are people who smoke when they know the risk is veryclear. There are people who will take serious risksbecause they need to earn money to support a family, andthey often will do things their doctors tell them not todo. But you say they have an absolute right to takewhatever the risk is. MR. BAGENSTOS: Well, I -- I think they have --they have the same right as people who don't havedisabilities. A very important point is that the questionis -- the question here is -- I'm sorry, Your Honor. Would you like to --QUESTION: Well, I -- I want to also get yourview on that because there's another aspect of the casethat I'm puzzled by. Mr. Shapiro at the beginning saidthat everybody else in the plant is safe under the OSHA th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC standards and so that only this person is at risk. Is --do you agree with that, or is there also risk to everybodyelse in the plant? MR. BAGENSTOS: Well, I -- I think that thetestimony of -- of the two experts on our side of the case-- this is why I say it's disputed. The testimony of thetwo experts on our side of the case is to the effect thatif there is a risk for Mr. Echazabal, there is a risk foreveryone else in the plant. But the real issue is not whether the employercan take steps to make its work place safe. The realissue is whether the employer or the employee gets to makethe decision whether --QUESTION: Is it conceivable that someone wouldnot be disabled but still be in a position where the -- hewould propose a risk to himself similar to this? MR. BAGENSTOS: I -- I -- of course, it'spossible. That's absolutely right. And we don't haveany --QUESTION: Surely the employer can say no inthat situation.MR. BAGENSTOS: Well, I think -- I think whatthe employer can do -- the employer can certainly dowhatever it wants with respect to people who don't havedisabilities as defined in the statute, at least as far as th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC the ADA is concerned. But again, the -- the question here is we havean individual who is excluded precisely because theemployer believed that his disability rendered him unsafe. And the question is who gets to decide whether this job istoo unsafe. Is it the employer? Is it the employee? Webelieve that -- that Congress firmly left that decision inthe hands of the employee.QUESTION: But the reason you make -- I thinkthe reason you make that argument is essentially the --the paternalism theory. Congress rejected paternalism. But isn't what Congress rejected a combination ofpaternalism and stereotype? It rejected the kind ofJohnson Controls situation which would say all women areat risk. Here you can call it paternalism if you want to,but at least the -- the medical claim is that there is adetermination of risk specific to this individual. Andcan we say that Congress rejected the employer's authorityto take that into consideration? No stereotype. Specific. MR. BAGENSTOS: I think -- I think we can saythat. I think we can -- we can say that because of thereference to over-protective rules and the statutoryfindings. We can say that because of Congress' loppingoff of the threat to self disqualification that had th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC previously appeared in the EEOC regs. QUESTION: Well, as I understand -- I want tocome back to that, but go ahead. I don't want to --MR. BAGENSTOS: Well, I -- I was done with thatpoint. QUESTION: I was just going to say with respectto -- when you get to the regulation itself, one answerfrom the Government was that the -- the reason theregulation mentioned threats to others is that there was-- there was case law on the point, and there's -- therereally isn't comparable case law on threats toindividuals. So that one way to read what Congress didwas to say it wanted to preserve the law -- the case lawthat there was and leave the rest open. What do you --what do you say to that argument? MR. BAGENSTOS: Well, I think -- I think that --that I may misconstrue their argument, but -- butcertainly -- certainly as to the state of theRehabilitation Act law at the time the ADA was adopted,there was a specific regulation by the EEOC. It's quotedin the petition's -- petition appendix at page , right,that specifically said a person is qualified only if hecan perform the essential functions of the position inquestion without endangering the health or -- and safetyof the individual and others. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Congress in U.S.C. (a) adopted byreference the Rehabilitation Act regulations, at least asa floor for protection under the ADA. This is oneinstance where Congress actually departed from what theprior Rehabilitation Act regulations did. We think that-- that has particular significance, particularly in lightof the consistent drum beat not just in the statutoryfindings, not just in the legislative history at thehearing stage, at the committee report stage, at the floorstage, but also consistently in Title VII law, this --this distinction between -- between excluding people basedon risk they pose to others and excluding people based onrisk they pose to themselves. QUESTION: Well, isn't there some room, though,for the argument that it -- there may be a businessnecessity not to hire somebody who's going to be killed asa result? You do have OSHA standards. You do haveworkmen's comp premiums that get jacked up if someemployee is injured on the job or made ill because of thejob. You have probably labor relations problems as aresult of having somebody put at risk on the job. There-- there are arguments there for a business necessitydefense.MR. BAGENSTOS: Well, I think -- I think theremay be arguments there. I think that they -- I think that th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC they're misplaced as a justification across the board fora threat to self defense as the EEOC has adopted. Worker's compensation premiums --QUESTION: Maybe but notwithstanding theregulation, just looking at the provisions of the act asapplied in this case, how do we deal with that businessnecessity argument? MR. BAGENSTOS: Well, I think I'd say two thingsabout that. First, I think that -- I think that thedecision that Congress made in (b), the direct threatprovision, to say specifically this is -- this is adefense that is limited to significant risks, becausethat's how it defines direct threat, and risks to others,I think that -- that in and of itself suggests thatCongress has foreclosed a business necessity defense foranything -- anything relating to safety risk that fallsoutside the terms of it, just as Congress couldn't -- justas an employer could not say, as Justice Scalia suggested,well, we're excluding this person because of an indirectthreat, but there's a business necessity for it.QUESTION: Well, I thought Justice O'Connor'squestion was somewhat broader. Obviously, we understandyour statutory position. But the -- the point of herquestion at least, as -- as I began to consider it, waswhether or not in this society, it's -- it's wrong to say th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC that an employer should care about its employees. MR. BAGENSTOS: Certainly --QUESTION: It seems to me that that's a very,very important policy to further, and your position wantsan employer to take a position that could be completelybarbarous. You have an employee who has severe mobilityproblems near dangerous machines where he could be maimed,and you say that that's just irrelevant. I think that's a-- an argument that's very demeaning to a society thatwants to encourage good conduct on -- on the part of itsemployers.MR. BAGENSTOS: Well, I think that this Courtconfronted basically the same argument in the JohnsonControls case, that the employer said -- the employersaid, look, we have a moral interest in the safety of ouremployees.QUESTION: But wasn't that a case involving abroad category of all women of child-bearing age whetheror not you were dealing with a specific individual who hadbeen told by the doctor you better not do this. That wasa broad categorical rule. Here we're dealing with anindividual and individual circumstances. Does that make adifference, do you think? I mean, I would think Johnsonis a -- a very sound concept as applied to broadcategories, but I'm not sure it covers this case. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. BAGENSTOS: Well, I -- I mean, two pointswith respect to that. One is I think that it's clear thatas -- as the employment discrimination law moves fromTitle VII which deals with large groups to -- todisability, which as -- as this Court's definition ofdisability decisions indicate, is a very individualizedkind of a concept. Right? I mean, two people who havethe same medical diagnosis, one may have a disability, onemay not, this Court has repeatedly emphasized. Necessarily the kind of intentional discrimination we'retalking about is going to be intentional discriminationagainst a person because of his particular disability asopposed to because of some broader group membership. I -- I would suggest that there -- there isexclusion on the basis of some kind of group membershipeven in a case like this. Anyone with chronic hepatitis Cwould be excluded by -- by what Chevron --QUESTION: But once -- once you eliminate thestereotyping as, you know, Justice Souter was -- wasinquiring about, I don't see why Congress would be soadamant about paternalism for the handicapped but notadamant about paternalism for everybody else. I mean, if-- if I don't have a handicap, I have some disability that-- that does not qualify as a handicap, and I want to -- Iwant to work in -- in a particular job, and it's th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC dangerous, and under OSHA rules I don't have any right tosay, paternalistic State, get out of here. I'm willing toaccept the risk. You can't do it. Why -- why is Congressonly worried about paternalism for the handicapped? Once you eliminate the stereotyping, you haveindividual determination that this person is -- is goingto be harmed. Why does Congress say, if it's a disabledperson, he can kill himself, but if it's not a disabledperson, oh, no, you can let him kill yourself? Why wouldCongress want to make that distinction? MR. BAGENSTOS: Well, I think two -- twopoints. One is if it's a disabled person, he still has tobe subject to the same OSHA rules as everyone else. But two, why is Congress concerned aboutpaternalistic discrimination? I mean, I -- I think asignificant part of it is the concern that over the run ofcases, there's -- when an employer looks at an individualwith a disability and the risk posed by that individual tohimself, history has shown -- and there's ample evidenceof this in the -- in the legislative record -- history hasshown that -- that there is likely to be an over-emphasis,an over-determination that there is in fact a risk. The --QUESTION: By doctors? I mean, this requiresmedical -- medical evidence. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. BAGENSTOS: By doctor -- by doctors, companydoctors, as occurs -- as occurred --QUESTION: You're against even the most extremecase, which this may not be. I mean, that's hard to seethat. I -- I -- but I'm particularly curious. Whatabout the reg? What about the reg? I mean, there it is. I take it your clients in this instance don't like thereg, but more often than not, the EEOC regs are quitefavorable to disabled people. So -- so, how can we say,well in this case we're paying no attention to the reg,but in some other case you'll be back here arguing weought to pay a lot of attention to the reg. So, what'syour response to that? MR. BAGENSTOS: Well, I don't think it's aquestion of -- of whose ox is gored. Right? I mean, Ithink why this reg --QUESTION: Well, explain why it isn't. MR. BAGENSTOS: Right. And why this reg doesn't-- ought not to get deference, it seems to me, is becausewhat the EEOC is basically doing is sneaking back into itsregulation a piece of the Rehabilitation Act regulationthat was cut out by Congress. QUESTION: You tell me how I write this sentencein the paragraph that says the reg doesn't matter? I say, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC oh, they were sneaking this one in? I don't think I canwrite that. (Laughter.) QUESTION: What is it I'm supposed to say aboutthat? MR. BAGENSTOS: Well, I -- I think thatdeference doesn't apply when Congress has explicitly --QUESTION: If it's clear, that's right, but Ifind it pretty hard to say it's clear when you starttalking about extreme cases. I mean, maybe this isn't oneof them, but you have the carpenter who's -- you know. Imean, you know, we can make them up. I think they're veryhypothetical. I doubt very much they really exist, butyou're asking for a rule that encompasses thosehypothetical, far-out cases, and there I see the reg. What am I supposed to do? MR. BAGENSTOS: So, two -- two points about theextreme cases, I mean, if that's what we're focusing on. The first point, as -- as Your Honor acknowledges, far-out probably don't exist. When Congress writes a rule, itdoesn't write a rule for the extreme cases. It writes arule for the run of cases. So, it wouldn't be crazy to --to read Congress -- what Congress said as not --QUESTION: No. I find it difficult because Ithink the subject matter of the potentially suicidal th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC worker has nothing whatsoever to do with the problem ofcontagious diseases. And so, I find it very hard to saythat in writing about contagious diseases, they weresaying anything whatsoever about suicides. MR. BAGENSTOS: Well, I think that -- I thinkthat one of the -- one of the changes that the ADA makesin the direct threat provision is broadening that fromcontagious diseases to all other kinds of risks, numberone. QUESTION: You tell me about the reg. MR. BAGENSTOS: Right, right. So, number two,about -- about the reg, it seems to me that in some of theextreme cases, a lot of them, maybe all of them, theperson will fail on the qualified individual standard. Aperson who's going to die by -- simply by walking on thejob, simply is unable to perform essential functions --QUESTION: You're not telling me about the reg. I want to know how to avoid -- from your point of view,you want me to avoid the fact that I owe deference to areg of the agency. So, I want to know. I know the normalrule is I owe that deference. So, what's special aboutthis in respect to that? MR. BAGENSTOS: Well, I -- I think that thequestion -- the question is, as I said, whether Congresshas spoken to the matter with respect to whether an th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC employer can exclude an individual based on risk to self,and we say that Congress has spoken to that matter in(b), the direct threat provision. QUESTION: Sure, but the -- the question is howplainly. And -- and here's the problem that I have, justas a technical matter, without even getting to thesuicidal patient. You make a very good argument about the contrastbetween what Congress wrote in the old EEOC regs. Asagainst the force of that argument, you've got the text ofthe statute that refers to the qualifications, includingthreats to others. So, in the -- you know, the verybreath that they're giving your -- an example, they'resaying, and there can be all kinds of other things too.It may very well be -- I don't know. It mayvery well be that, as Justice Ginsburg suggested earlier,they were talking about other kinds of examples on othersubjects. But I don't know. It's not clear to me, andthat's the point at which Chevron deference becomescrucial. How can I say it is so plain that Congress wasexcluding a -- a Chevron treatment? MR. BAGENSTOS: Okay. Two points, one textual,one contextual. The textual point, directly on -- on thisprovision, I think goes back to what Justice Scalia saidin the first half of the argument which is just because it th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC begins with may include, doesn't mean that everything thatfollows it -- everything that follows it doesn't place anylimitations on everything that precedes may include. Congress said, you know, qualification standards mayinclude a direct threat to others --QUESTION: Absolutely, but I don't know how todraw the line. That's my problem. MR. BAGENSTOS: And -- and I think thecontextual point helps answer that with the -- theconsistent statements both in the statutory findings andin this provision, the change from the -- from theRehabilitation Act regs, and consistently in thelegislative history, including that specifically referringto this particular provision saying the reason why we cutthis language out basically is in order to say thatpaternalistic determinations, determinations by employersfor the safety of employees, for the safety of theparticular excluded employees, should not be permitted tojustify --QUESTION: Okay. But that gets back to thepoint that several have raised and that is paternalismcombined with stereotype, yes, I understand. That's out. Johnson Controls is out. But paternalism alone? Particularly where, asJustice Scalia has said, paternalism for the -- for the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC non-disabled is -- is alive and well in OSHA. That's --that's not so easy for -- for me to follow. MR. BAGENSTOS: Paternalism for everybody, thenon-disabled, as well as the disabled --QUESTION: Yes. MR. BAGENSTOS: -- taken as a whole -- I -- Iagree is taken kind of as part of the OSHA. I -- I think that it's certainly, as -- as Imeant to say in response to Justice Scalia's question,there certainly is a concern for stereotyping here. Thequestion is whether Congress meant to permit -- or meantto require employees to have to prove stereotyping in eachcase. That is -- that is, Congress could have made aclass-based decision that most of the time when we have anexclusion of an individual with a disability because of aconclusion that his disability makes him unsafe, that --that is likely to be informed by some degree ofstereotyping or the -- the incentives that -- thatemployers' doctors have to exclude people rather than hirethem and take the steps necessary to protect them as theAmerican Public Health Association makes clear in itsbrief. So, stereotyping is --QUESTION: So, that may -- that may simply getus down to a very important point but not a point here,and that is, the -- a sufficiency of evidence point or a th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC -- or a sufficient specificity of evidence point. Andthat's -- that's not what we've got.MR. BAGENSTOS: Well, the problem -- right. Ithink that's right. I think Congress then has twochoices. Do you require plaintiffs to prove in every casethat there is stereotyping in addition to paternalism? Ordo you presume essentially paternalism entailsstereotyping when it's paternalistic discrimination? It'snot paternalism at large, not paternalism visited on allemployees. And I think that Congress, given the historyrecounted over and over in -- in the hearings, wasentitled to say that we're just going to make a -- a broadclass of --QUESTION: Did it say that? That's the questionwe're all interested in. It certainly was entitled tosay, but I don't believe you can point to any particularplace where it specifically says that. MR. BAGENSTOS: Well, I think that -- I thinkthat the closest is that just as the direct threatprovision excludes an indirect threat as a basis for --for excluding someone, so too does the threat to otherslanguage there exclude threats to self. QUESTION: Yes, but you -- you have to pushbeyond the analogy from direct threat to indirect threatto -- to get that far out. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. BAGENSTOS: Well, I -- I don't -- I don'tknow that you have to push beyond the analogy. I mean,it's -- I would -- I would say, with respect, it seemed --it seems like it's precisely parallel statutory language.There are two limitations in the (b) directthreat provision. One is direct threat defined assignificant risk, and the other is risk to others. Itseems like if you're going to override either of thoselimitations under the guise of the general (a)qualification standards defense, then any purpose Congresshad for including those limitations in that direct threatprovision is -- is going to be rendered meaningless. And so -- so, I think that's the concern there. And this is not -- this is not a concern that's -- that'sunique to the ADA. It's a concern that this Courtapproached under Title VII. I think the important answer that -- I'd like toget back to Justice Kennedy's point before -- is that thisis not a statute, even under our reading, that preventsemployers from taking steps, taking lots of steps, toprotect their employees. It just eliminates one thingthey might do, and that is simply exclude an employee who,because of a disability, is determined to -- to pose anundue risk. QUESTION: May I ask you to comment on a th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC hypothetical that I -- I can't -- haven't quite been ableto think through? Assume that the -- that an employee hasto be able to lift at least pounds in order to be safein a particular assignment. And one employee can't lift pounds because he's just not any stronger than a lotof other people, and another employee can't do it becausehe's disabled. Could they fire -- could they deny theemployment of the disabled person in that hypo?MR. BAGENSTOS: I think that that would be aneutral qualification standard. That's the paradigm caseof a neutral qualification standard. That is what(a) is about. Asking everybody --QUESTION: So, if the -- if Standard Oil had a-- had a qualification that anyone with hepatitis beyond acertain degree is ineligible for employment, that would beokay? MR. BAGENSTOS: Well, I think the point -- thepoint of its neutrality in the lifting hypothetical --QUESTION: Some -- some neutral standard thatwhatever -- they phrase it in medical terms, and if youcross the threshold, you're at too much of a risk andwe'll -- we won't employ you. MR. BAGENSTOS: Well, I think if they have toask themselves what is your medical condition, do you havehepatitis C, which hepatitis C is a disability in this th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC case, then it's no longer neutral. Then what they'redoing is engaging in intentional discrimination againstthat person because of his condition. If, on the otherhand, what they say is we require everybody to lift pounds, we don't care if the reason you can't lift pounds is because --QUESTION: Well, then you're discriminatingagainst people with hernias probably. (Laughter.) QUESTION: Well, it -- it would certainly screenout people with hernias, and -- and therefore would primafacie violate the screening out provision of -- of thestatute unless there were a business necessityjustification. This is precisely the context in whichthere would be a business necessity justification underthe statute where -- where an employer says we requireeverybody to satisfy the standard. We don't care. Wedon't even ask what's the reason why you can't lift. Wegive you pounds and say, lift if for us, and if youcan't do it --QUESTION: What if the employer says, we requireeverybody to have a prognosis of living for at least years on the job? (Laughter.) MR. BAGENSTOS: Right. If the employer did th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC that, I mean, I think -- I think that that would besomething -- that would be something that goes a lotcloser to a qualification standard that is neutral. Now,the concern in that case is, number one, is it reallyneutral? That is, is it the case that they say only topeople with disabilities, people with medical conditionsthat constitute disabilities, we think that you fail thistest. QUESTION: No, but I'm talking about just acrossthe board. One of the things that we require, regardlessof what you're condition is, is we want -- we want yourlife expectancy to be at least years. MR. BAGENSTOS: I think that they could do thatif they could justify it as job-related and consistentwith business necessity, which might be very difficult. The business justification I suppose would be we don'twant turnover in employment, but there's a lot of turnoverfor a lot --QUESTION: No age discrimination problem here? (Laughter.) MR. BAGENSTOS: There might well be an agediscrimination problem there. Disparate effects, youknow, depending on whether disparate effect is recognizedunder that statute. But -- but under -- as far as the ADA is th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC concerned, certainly it's the case that they would be ableto assert a business justification, but I think it wouldbe difficult in that case to actually prove the businessjustification because it's only -- if it's only people whoare going to die in years, however we predict that, whoare excluded from employment and not people who are goingto take a better job, not people who are going to leavebecause they fall in love and move to a different city orleave to take care of a sick parent -- I mean, there arethousands of reasons why job turnover occurs. If theysingle out something that screens out people withdisabilities, that's obviously very different. But the crucial point, it seems -- it seems tome, is that in this case what we have and in the class ofcases on which the legal question presented addresses --what we have is a choice effectively of who's going todecide whether a job is too risky for a particularindividual in a context where there are general rules likeOSHA that are complied with. QUESTION: Well, let the doctor decide.MR. BAGENSTOS: Well, I think that theindividual will certainly -- will certainly follow thedictates of his own doctor in most cases. And when theindividual doesn't, I mean, there are obviously caseswhere people -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: I'm afraid you haven't thought aboutthe Christian Scientists in this -- in this community.MR. BAGENSTOS: Right. Well, I mean, I think --I think that raises obviously distinct issues. But -- but yes, I think that -- people willobviously consult with their doctors. I mean, what's --what's notable here is that Chevron purported to consultwith Echazabal's doctor, didn't really give him all theinformation, didn't get it, didn't ask him whether therewas a significant risk, but never put the doctor incontact with Echazabal, just purported to have --QUESTION: Well, that goes to the issue onremand if there is one.MR. BAGENSTOS: Right, no --QUESTION: It's not the legal --MR. BAGENSTOS: I -- I agree with that. I -- Iagree with that really does go --QUESTION: But if we're focusing on our concernabout extreme cases, of which this may not be one, haveyou thought of a form of words that might cabin those offif they ever occur, which would give some meaning to thereg? MR. BAGENSTOS: I --QUESTION: And what's the form of words?MR. BAGENSTOS: I don't know that I can give any th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC meaning to the reg that's --QUESTION: If you can -- if you apply it, youcould think of an extreme case where the person is -- youknow, the suicidal worker, I'm going to die with my bootson and I hope tomorrow. I mean, there may be such people,and -- and okay. So, that's what maybe this reg is about. I don't know. It doesn't say it isn't. And -- and what'sthe form of words that would cabin off those cases? MR. BAGENSTOS: Well, I think that the cabiningwould have to be external to the regulation. I think it's-- I think it's -- to -- to say --QUESTION: Well, give me the form of words,however you want to do it. MR. BAGENSTOS: Okay. And I think that thecabining is threefold. Number one, an employer canexclude someone who is not a qualified individual with adisability, which many people who pose such an extremepresent risk themselves will be. Number two, an employercan apply neutral qualification standards that are job-related and consistent with business necessity. Andnumber three, if we have someone who really is bent oncommitting suicide by employment, there are State lawcommitment remedies available for such people, people whocan't --(Laughter.) th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. BAGENSTOS: And no --QUESTION: I mean, that's -- that's extreme. Imean, people may want to die with their boots on. Thereare a lot of things that move people. Some don't believeit, et cetera. So, is there a serious form of words thatyou could say, well, if it's really one of those cases, itmight be a -- a situation that falls within the reg? Andyou're telling me the answer to that question is no. There is no form of words. MR. BAGENSTOS: I -- I think outside of thesituation -- the first two situations that I spoke ofwhere the person isn't qualified or where the person isexcluded under a neutral job-related and consistent withbusiness necessity qualification standard, that I wouldsuspect excludes everybody except what we've now describedas the really extreme cases. QUESTION: In order to avoid paternalism, we'regoing to tell employers they can just commit theiremployees. (Laughter.) MR. BAGENSTOS: Well, I think the crucial pointis that, I mean, there are due process limitations oncommitment which there are not for employers. And that'sthe crucial point, Justice Kennedy. If -- if we say thatemployers get to decide willy-nilly this is too unsafe, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC that's -- that's a very different kind of a process. Ofcourse, commitment is only in a very extreme circumstance,and we have procedures to make sure that independentdecision makers make those decisions with full knowledgeof the facts not employers here and then forcing --forcing employees to come to court and fight for yearsto prove that they really weren't a risk to themselves.And -- and that we think is the reason why Congressexcluded the -- excluded the notion that an employer couldmake the decision instead of the employee as to what istoo unsafe. And we would then submit that the court ofappeals judgment should be affirmed. QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. Bagenstos. Mr. Shapiro, you have minutes remaining. REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF STEPHEN M. SHAPIROON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERMR. SHAPIRO: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice.Justice Stewart's opinion for the Court in theDothard case contained an excellent rebuttal to theargument we've just heard. He stated that safety is notromantic paternalism. Safety is a basic businessnecessity in this country. That's the culmination of years of industrial policy. QUESTION: Mr. Shapiro, I thought that was th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC safety of others because didn't Dothard make thedistinction between the -- the risk to the individualwoman, which was up to her? What Dothard said is, thisprison is a jungle. By her presence, she is endangeringeveryone else in the place. There are going to be riots.So, I think Dothard doesn't work for you at all.MR. SHAPIRO: Oh, we think it does. The Courtdiscussed both kinds of danger, danger to the individualand danger to other people. And this Court twice has saidin Dothard -- in Beezer -- the Beezer case later -- thatsafety is a paradigm business necessity. And indeed, it-- it is the paradigm, safe and efficient operations ofbusiness. And this is not a statute that cut out risks toself. This is a statute that included risks to self inthe business necessity defense. That's generic languagethat encompasses it. And there was a long line of casesthat Congress meant to adopt under the Rehab Act. Theydidn't disapprove those cases. In fact, businessnecessity is repeated four different times in the statute,and it's applied specifically to medical examinations ofthe individual employee. Congress wasn't talking aboutgeneral tests. It was talking about examinations like theone given to Mr. Echazabal.Now, this Court has held that under the business th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC necessity defense, it will not substitute its judgment forthe employer's judgment. All that is needed is areasonable relationship to a legitimate businessobjective. There certainly is a legitimate businessobjective here in saving this individual's life andpromoting safety in the plant. Was the judgment a reasonable one? We had fouropinions from experienced physicians. We spoke with Mr.Echazabal's own physician. We told him, did you realizethis man would be exposed to liver toxins, and he said,no, that should not be done. Someone with hepatitis Ccan't even have a drink of alcohol, much less livertoxins. Shapiro.CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: Thank you, Mr.The case is submitted. (Whereupon, at : a.m., the case in theabove-entitled matter was submitted.) th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC 