 IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XJEANNE WOODFORD, WARDEN, Petitioner ::v. : No. -ROBERT FREDERICK GARCEAU. :- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XWashington, D.C.Tuesday, January , The above-entitled matter came on for oralargument before the Supreme Court of the United States at: a.m.APPEARANCES:JANIS S. McLEAN, ESQ., Supervising Deputy AttorneyGeneral, Sacramento, California; on behalf of the Petitioner.LYNNE S. COFFIN, ESQ., State Public Defender, SanFrancisco, California; on behalf of the Respondent. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC C O N T E N T SORAL ARGUMENT OF JANIS S. McLEAN, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioner LYNNE S. COFFIN, ESQ.On behalf of the Respondent REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OFJANIS S. McLEAN, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioner PAGE th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC P R O C E E D I N G S(: a.m.)CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: We'll hear argumentfirst this morning in Number -, Jeanne Woodford,Warden versus Robert Frederick Garceau.Ms. McLean.ORAL ARGUMENT OF JANIS S. McLEANON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERMS. McLEAN: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court:In Lindh versus Murphy, this Court held thatchapter was non-retroactive to cases pending at thetime of AEDPA's enactment. In the general run of habeascases, this is determined by the filing date of theapplication for habeas relief.This case will resolve a split between the fivecircuits that apply this rule to capital cases and theNinth Circuit which, instead, looks to the date thepre-application motion for counsel was filed in a capitalcase.We believe that the five circuits are correct.Neither chapter nor Lindh versus Murphyidentifies the commencement event that triggers theapplication of chapter . In light of this, we mustdetermine Congress' intent, and the first place to look is th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC to the express terms of chapter and, of course,AEDPA's purposes to expedite habeas cases and to providegreater deferential review to State -- State criminalconvictions.Chapter by its terms can only apply to amerits petition. It repeatedly contains express language,such as that contained in (d), which is found atpetitioner's appendix , which concerns the statute oflimitations provisions and provides that the statute oflimitations applies to the application for habeas relief.Similarly, the standard of review in (d) atpetitioner's appendix --QUESTION: Well, what do we do about McFarland'sapproach?MS. McLEAN: Your Honor, I believe that -- that these are easily reconciled. I believe that it -- thatthere's a -- I think the habeas proceedings can be -- areunique and can be extended. They can also be dividedinto -- into segments.The first phase is the pre-application phase,which is what McFarland was concerned about. In thatcase, this Court was concerned about providing, pursuantto U.S.C. -- concerned about the pre-applicationgrant of counsel to habeas petitioners. But that isentirely separable from the merits proceeding that occurs th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC after the filing of the -- of the petition itself whichbrings the merits before the court.QUESTION: It's the difference between a caseand a proceeding. How -- how do you get us here under thewords of the statute?MS. McLEAN: The -- actually, the provisions ofchapter themselves do not contain the word case. That -- we only come to that term at all because in thisCourt's opinion in Lindh, the Court looked to -- createda -- viewed the -- as being a negative inference from theabsence of the pending cases language that appears in the provisions.The provisions do not have that -- those --that term in them. Instead, they use the specific expresswords of an application. They clearly apply to an application. And the case -- that's reconcilable becausethe portion of the case that we're talking about is themerits portion of the -- of the case.This Court recognized that there can be multiplecases in a habeas proceeding. In Slack versus McDaniel,the Court recognized that there could be a separateappellate case that --QUESTION: How was it treated on the court'sdocket? I mean, the -- something was going on. There wasa request for a stay. There was a request for the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC appointment of counsel. So something was initiated, andwhat was that something called?MS. McLEAN: That would -- it could becharacterized as -- you could use the word case. Youcould use the word habeas corpus proceeding.QUESTION: Do you know how it was in fact? Howwas it treated on the court's docket?MS. McLEAN: It --QUESTION: Was it given a case name and a file?MS. McLEAN: It was -- it was certainly given acase name and assigned a case number, undoubtedly, but Ido not --QUESTION: And would that number indicate thatit was a habeas petition?MS. McLEAN: I'm sure it did because our courts in California, the -- the district courts have numbersthat specify that it's a habeas proceeding.QUESTION: So it was on the docket as a habeascase.MS. McLEAN: That's correct.QUESTION: And that's not good enough.MS. McLEAN: That's not determinative. WhatI'm -- my position is, or our position is, is thatthese -- that the habeas proceeding is unique andextended. It includes three phases; includes the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC pre-application phase, which is the -- what McFarland wasconcerned about. It -- it then has the merits applicationphase that begins with the filing of the application forhabeas relief. It then also has the appellate phase.QUESTION: Well, McFarland was a totallydifferent statute from AEDPA, was it not? It -- it was --it's a totally separate statute.MS. McLEAN: That's correct, Your Honor.QUESTION: And really, what we're trying tointerpret here, I take it, is the meaning of some of thelanguage in Lindh. We're -- we're not talking about anyspecific language in -- even in AEDPA.MS. McLEAN: Well, we're concerned about --Lindh used the phrase that -- that there wasnon-retroactivity of chapter to cases -- to cases pending under .So the question is, what is the commencementevent that we talked about, that -- that we're referringto? What -- what creates the pending case for purposes ofchapter ?For that, we have to look back to the expressterms of the statute. Since can -- doesn't apply tothe -- the pre-application phase --QUESTION: Why -- why would we look to theexpress terms of the statute when Lindh itself didn't rely th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC on any express terms of this statute? Why wouldn't welook to -- to what makes sense with respect to the rulethat we have created?MS. McLEAN: I would agree with that, thatthe -- what I'm saying is that in the absence of -- in theabsence of language -- there's clearly an absence oflanguage in that addresses this commencement event. So that puts us into a position of looking to see whatCongress intended based on what the express words ofchapter are. Is -- is there anything in chapter that tells us that, no, we didn't mean the -- the -- acommencement of a habeas proceeding based on the filing ofan application? We meant something earlier, i.e., themotion for -- for a request for appointment of counsel.And the answer to that is no. Simply no. Thereis nothing in chapter that has anything to do with thepre-application proceeding. Those provisions, as isdemonstrated by their terms and also the habeas corpusrules concerning chapter cases -- those only canapply -- expressly apply to applications for habeasrelief. They do not apply to any earlier event, and itdoesn't -- it thwarts the purposes of AEDPA by -- byunduly confining the number of cases covered by it,capital cases covered by it. It --QUESTION: That's the part I wonder. I was th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC thinking that if it's open to -- pend -- the -- thecase -- what is it called? Is it -- McFarland -- suggeststhat it's at least open to calling this pending. It's apossible construction.MS. McLEAN: Yes, it's a possible construction.QUESTION: And then -- and then it being apossible construction, I wonder, well, there was an awfullot of proceeding that went on here. There was a stay. It was opposed. And all of this took place before the --the petition was filed. So if the purpose of AEDPA, atleast as we've interpreted it, is to stay away fromproceedings that were already underway, this would seem tohave been well underway.MS. McLEAN: It was -- the -- the proceeding waswell underway, but that doesn't -- is not determinative in -- in the sense that counsel had been appointed and apetition was in the works. But that --QUESTION: That's -- that's what I want you toaddress precisely. That's where I'm uncertain. It seemsas if the language -- you could -- you could -- youcould -- the language is open to either interpretation --MS. McLEAN: I don't --QUESTION: And yet -- well, you -- you thinkit's more strong in your direction. I -- I understandthat. But if -- say, if it's open to either th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC interpretation, then why doesn't the purpose of theapplication provisions, as we've interpreted them, suggestdon't apply it where proceedings are well underway, whichwould mean the other side would win here. That's why I'masking you. I want to see what your response is.MS. McLEAN: In order to deviate from -- fromthe normal -- also, there is no question that in -- in thegeneral run of habeas cases, it's triggered by the filingof the application. So the question is whether there'ssome justification, some harm that would be caused bynot -- by treating them -- them being the capital cases --under the Ninth Circuit's ruling differently than we dothe normal run of habeas cases. And there's nothing aboutthe fact that a counsel had been appointed or that -- thata application was in the works, but not yet filed, that would prevent us or harm in any way those petitioners fromultimately being subject to the greater standards ofdeferential review that -- that AEDPA ultimately imposed. There's no harm whatsoever.And it doesn't further -- it thwarts thepurposes of AEDPA to do that. It -- it also creates asubclass of capital defendants who are treateddifferently --QUESTION: But if everyone had focused on AEDPA,which they didn't because it wasn't enacted at the time th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC all this started, then maybe the district judge would havemade the time lines different. And the district court hada proceeding before it with a number. It was classified ahabeas case. And the district court set a rather relaxedschedule. He gave the counsel, appointed counsel, manymonths to file the actual petition. And if everybody hadknown that the -- that the time the district judge gavewould mean that AEDPA would apply, then I assume counsel,being diligent, would have said, don't give me that muchtime. I have to get this in quickly.MS. McLEAN: This case that's before the Courtdoes not involve the statute of limitations, however. Theconcerns that you're expressing would be valid --QUESTION: But you don't want AEDPA to apply, ifyou're diligent counsel, because the standards are much tighter.MS. McLEAN: It does affect the standards ofreview, but they don't --QUESTION: Well, counsel didn't have to take allthe time that the district court allowed, did he?MS. McLEAN: He did not need to, but he -- hewas fully compliant.To the extent that the Court's concern hereappears to this counsel to be concerned about the statuteof limitations, there was no issue here. This case came th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC in timely. And in fact, in the Ninth Circuit, theyfollowed the same rule that all the other five circuitsfollowed all the way up until . So really the statuteof limitations is virtually a non-issue in this situation. This case did -- the -- the -- any delays or long periodsof times that were granted or anything didn't haveanything to do with this case. There is no harm in thiscase.The only issue is that now, once this case wasin the district court and in the Ninth Circuit, should itbe subject to the deferential standards of review thatAEDPA imposed, and the answer to that is yes. There wasno -- there is absolutely no harm in now saying thatbecause the filing of the application came in after theenactment of AEDPA, that it should be subject, just as all other habeas cases are, to --QUESTION: Do we know how many cases fall inthis category? This is a transition case caught inbetween. No AEDPA when it all started; AEDPA in themiddle before the petition is filed.MS. McLEAN: That's correct.QUESTION: How many cases are in that category?MS. McLEAN: We believe -- we believe that itaffects approximately -- in the Ninth Circuit,particularly in California, it affects approximately th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC capital cases.QUESTION: cases.MS. McLEAN: It also -- it also, of course,affects the other -- those cases, those capital cases,that are covered by the other circuits which currentlyuse -- all of which, other than the Ninth Circuit, as tothose cases, use the filing date of the application. So if the Court, obviously, was to choose the positionadvocated by respondent, it would change the standard ofreview from AEDPA to non-AEDPA in those States covered bythose circuits.In the Ninth Circuit, what will -- would happenif you adopted the position that I'm advocating is thatyou -- that those cases in California, approximately cases in California, will now become AEDPA cases. Andthat will primarily affect the standard of review that isapplied to them.Garceau --QUESTION: Do you happen to know -- that was avery good answer. Do you happen to know the number ofcases in the other circuits if we ruled the other --MS. McLEAN: I'm -- I'm sorry, Your Honor, I donot.event.QUESTION: It's a vanishing problem in any th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MS. McLEAN: That's certainly true, but it'svery important. Garceau is the perfect example of whythis is an important issue for this Court, the -- inGarceau, the -- the State -- the State supreme courtissued a very well-reasoned opinion issuing -- saying thatit had decided that error was harmless, upholding theconviction that occurred in this case. It went throughthe district court. The district court agreed. It wentto the Ninth Circuit in -- this was a killing. In -- in , it was reversed by the Ninth Circuit, whichdid -- because it did not believe it was an AEDPA case,refused to apply the deferential standard of review,refused to apply the precedents of this Court, insteadlooked at its own -- its own cases, and reversed it.And this is -- you know, this is the most important -- a capital conviction in California is themost important cases -- some of the most important casesthat that State issues. And -- and to have that reversedfor the failure to apply this -- the standards thatCongress imposed in is a very, very serious matter.And that's just one case. It's happened in other cases. And -- and so, we believe that it's very important to havethis issue straightened out.QUESTION: Do you wish to reserve the remainderof your time? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MS. McLEAN: Your Honor, I do. At this point,I would like to reserve my remaining time. Thank you.QUESTION: Very well, Ms. McLean.Ms. Coffin, we'll hear from you.ORAL ARGUMENT OF LYNNE S. COFFINON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTMS. COFFIN: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court:The issue is not whether this harms Mr. Garceau,but whether it is appropriate under this Court's precedentto rule the way the State asked this Court to rule.For two independent reasons, the amendments tochapter do not apply to Mr. Garceau.First, it simply cannot be, as the Statesuggests, that after this Court found in McFarland that a capital case is commenced by the filing of a motion forcounsel, that Congress then passed a new statute,intending it to be interpreted consistent with the dissentin this case. Congress must be presumed to have beeninformed by this Court's majority ruling in McFarland. The McFarland Court ruled that -- that Congress hadpermitted a capital proceeding to be initiated by thefiling of a motion for counsel. That ruling was only years before Congress made major revisions to the habeascorpus law in AEDPA. Under statutory construction th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC principles, Congress must be found to have been aware ofand followed this Court's precedent set in McFarland.QUESTION: Well, are you -- are you saying,Ms. Coffin, that McFarland is controlling in the verystrict sense of the word here, that if -- we must rule inyour favor without looking anywhere else just because ofthe decision in McFarland?MS. COFFIN: No. What I'm -- what I am sayingis that I believe that this Court should look to whatinformed Congress when they wrote AEDPA. And I think oncethat is done, this Court will conclude that if youinterpret the ruling in Lindh, where -- where (c)applies to and -- where did Congress get the wordcase when they were determining who would be subject tothis law? And I agree with Justice Ginsburg that when a case is begun, you get a number, you're put on a docket. That is your case, and that is consistent with what thisCourt decided in McFarland.What is not consistent is to believe thatCongress used the word case rather than petition when theyquite clearly used petition in many other parts of thestatute.QUESTION: When -- when did Congress pass thelaw that -- that overturned the result in McFarland? Yousay they passed a law that overturned the result? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MS. COFFIN: No, no. What I said was that theypassed AEDPA, and when they did that, they were informedin how they wrote that statute by McFarland. That was in'.QUESTION: Okay. And they -- they haven't dealtwith the issue of McFarland.MS. COFFIN: Well, in -- yes and no. I mean,I think that they -- they had an opportunity to change(q) and looked at (q) --QUESTION: Yes.MS. COFFIN: -- when they wrote AEDPA, and theychose to leave (q) in place.QUESTION: Well, now, is that supported bysomething in, say, the legislative history, or is thatjust your -- your own view of what must have happened? MS. COFFIN: There is nothing in the legislativehistory that supports one side or the other. However, ifone looks at McFarland -- the majority decision, as wellas Justice O'Connor's concurrence and dissent -- one seesthat this Court made it very clear to Congress that ifthey meant something like petition or application, whichare pretty much used synonymously, that they better putthose words in because, in fact, the majority in this --in -- of this Court refused to read that kind of languageinto McFarland, and that's part of how McFarland got th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC decided.So very shortly thereafter, Congress wrote a lawcompletely revising or, you know, substantially revisinghabeas corpus. And it's simply difficult to believe thatat that point, they decided not to look at the majorityopinion in McFarland which uses the word case.QUESTION: But it's -- it's not at all anunusual phenomenon that -- that a word in -- in statuteshas different application in different contexts whereyou --We had a case the other day. When is somethingfinal? Congress says, you know, when -- when it's final. It depends on what the context is, and nothing -- nothingsays that just because you -- you think that the case forone purpose, for the McFarland purpose, begins with the --with the initial filings, for -- for all purposes it hasto begin there.And what impresses me about this case is that Idon't see what is gained by extending the inapplicabilityof AEDPA earlier than the filing of the habeas petitionbecause the purpose of -- of the non-retroactivityprovision is certainly not to cause somebody to befrustrated in actions that he took in reliance upon theprior law. And -- and a -- a habeas applicant could befrustrated in events that occur after the filing of his th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC habeas petition. But all of the events prior to thatfiling that were covered by McFarland, they aren't coveredby AEDPA anyway. AEDPA could not possibly affect thoseearlier events. So -- so nothing -- nothing is served bymaking the retroactivity go back further.MS. COFFIN: Well, I -- I think there areactually two answers to that question. The first one isit isn't really an issue of whether or not -- in myopinion, it's not an issue of whether or not some harm isgoing to come to -- to Mr. Garceau by interpreting thisone way or the other. That's not the issue.The issue is what did Congress mean when theydid this. They had one purpose, I agree with you, whichwas to reform habeas corpus and make things move in a --in a more orderly fashion.QUESTION: Right.But they had another -- there -- there is alsoanother part to that, and that is, they determined thatcertain cases would not be covered by AEDPA. And so --QUESTION: Well, those cases -- those cases, inwhich they did not want to frustrate legitimateexpectations.But my point is, there is no possible legitimateexpectation that would be frustrated by AEDPA in thepre-application stage. AEDPA simply doesn't have anything th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC to do with that.MS. COFFIN: Well, the language of the statutesays case, and -- and I think there -- I think --QUESTION: Okay. You're back to that argument,but on that argument, you know, what's a case depends onthe context.MS. COFFIN: I also think that there is a -- areason that can be discerned from their retroactivityprovisions which was --QUESTION: Well, in your -- in your answer toJustice Scalia, you said, well, you're not sure about theharm, but the harm exists, it -- it seems to me, in notgiving full effect to the congressional scheme. The --the Congress obviously thought that this was a -- thatAEDPA was a preferred regime, and you are delaying what Congress has found a preferred regime. So it's a harm inthat sense, maybe not the harm in a particular case thatwould come out one way or the other, but you are delayingthe effectiveness of -- of a congressional scheme.MS. COFFIN: But Congress chose to determinethat not everyone would be immediately affected --immediately affected by AEDPA, and they --QUESTION: Well, of course, for -- for thereasons given. We -- we want -- we want cases thathave -- where the merits have been addressed to be decided th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC under the -- the law before it was changed by AEDPA.MS. COFFIN: Justice Kennedy, I believe that, infact, the -- the cases that were in the pipeline, thisfinite number of cases, were exactly the cases -- not the cases, but the capital cases that were in thepipeline that Congress was aware that they werepre-petition cases, petition cases, various kinds ofcases. And if they wanted to make sure that it -- thisstatute would be interpreted in a way so that anyone thatwas in Federal court and that had vast proceedings takeplace, but that had not filed a petition yet, all they hadto do was put the word petition in. And I believe that weare bound by what Congress did. I understand thatthey want --QUESTION: But -- but that -- but that's just not true that -- that we give a word the same meaning inall contexts. We -- we evidently don't. There are somany instances of that, that your argument cannot --cannot rely just upon that. And it seems to me all of theother courts that have come out the other way from theNinth Circuit have done so for a very sensible reason, andthat is that there is nothing to be gained, nothingwhatever to be gained, by refusing -- or by -- by refusingto apply AEDPA to these pre-petition activities inasmuchas AEDPA cannot affect them at all. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MS. COFFIN: Well, if -- to give you a briefanswer, on the other -- on the other circuits, the fact ofthe matter is none of them analyzed this in terms ofCongress' intent at the time that they wrote AEDPA and howthey were informed by McFarland.However, even if this Court is not convincedthat Congress' awareness of McFarland is dispositive as tothe meaning of case pending, Garceau had a case pendingpre-AEDPA under this Court's definitions of whatconstitutes a case.Prior to AEDPA, Garceau had begun the process ofchallenging a State conviction and death sentence in partby filing in the district court a pleading detailing twofully exhausted claims of Federal constitutionalviolations. Garceau sought and received counsel in order to raise claims and challenge a State conviction and deathsentence. He filed a document detailing the two claims Ijust mentioned with their factual and legal foundationwhich were ripe for adjudication. The district court madea determination, after hearings, that these claimspresented viable grounds for habeas corpus relief.Under Hohn, we believe Garceau had a casepending. The determination in Garceau's case is veryanalogous to the judicial determination in Hohn concerningthe COA application. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: I mean, is it true, by the way --is -- is that the case or not that -- I'm interested inthe question -- that -- that if in fact AEDPA applies toa -- AEDPA does -- there's a difference whether AEDPAdoes -- does it make a difference if AEDPA applies or notto the --MS. COFFIN: Yes.QUESTION: How?MS. COFFIN: Well, there's more deferentialstandard to the State -- to the State court's decision.QUESTION: So it does make just as muchdifference.QUESTION: No, but not -- not to any decisionthat is taken before the filing of the -- of the formalhabeas application.MS. COFFIN: Oh. If you're asking whether thisparticular thing that I was just talking about would havemade a difference, no.QUESTION: Your case. In your case. A personfiles a petition asking for a lawyer, and then we have alot of litigation.MS. COFFIN: Right.QUESTION: Should there be a stay? Should therenot be a stay?MS. COFFIN: Right. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: And I guess the answer to that couldaffect a later determination in the case. I don't know.MS. COFFIN: I would concede that, in fact, inthis case and I think all the pipeline cases, that even ifAEDPA had applied at the time that the case originated,there would not have been a different determination interms of those early proceedings.QUESTION: Yes.MS. COFFIN: However, the -- the point I'mtrying to make now is that even if this Court doesn'tbelieve that -- that case pending can be determined bylooking at McFarland and Lindh, I think that the -- whatHohn has identified as what is needed for a case is, infact, found in the Garceau case and that's because of theproceeding that Garceau followed where he actually filed what could have been a petition had that name been put onit.QUESTION: Can you specify what were thepre-petition -- I thought that there was -- there was alsosomething submitted by counsel, a kind of skeletalstatement of issues, and -- and because there was anadversary proceeding, was there not? The -- the Statemoved to dismiss the stay. And something what -- wassomething different submitted by Garceau himself earlier,and then something by counsel later? What was the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC sequence?MS. COFFIN: No. What -- what happened is therewas an application for counsel. Counsel was appointed. Counsel then -- there was a stay before counsel wasappointed so that counsel could be found. Then counselwas appointed, and an additional -day stay went intoeffect before counsel filed the document I'm now talkingabout. And this document is the Specification of Non-frivolous Issues, which includes two claims that were --and were in the petition ultimately that put -- set forththe factual and legal basis for those two claims. Andthen the judge had to determine whether or not one or bothof those claims were non-frivolous. Otherwise, the staywould have been dissolved, and Garceau -- actually I wouldimagine that the counsel may have been pulled, but that's not what happened.QUESTION: And that statement of issues wasfiled pre-AEDPA.MS. COFFIN: Yes. Yes, and as in Hohn --QUESTION: Well, excuse me. There was -- butthat was also after the application for habeas corpus hadbeen filed. No?QUESTION: No.MS. COFFIN: No, no. This is before. WhatI'm -- what I'm saying is this document, the Specification th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC of Non-frivolous Issues, which is required under the rulesof all of the district courts in California --QUESTION: In order to get counsel appointed.MS. COFFIN: No. Actually, you get it aftercounsel is appointed. In order to get an additional stayin which to file the petition, you --QUESTION: Isn't this --MS. COFFIN: -- you get counsel and then counselmust file something that a district court determines is,in fact -- has at least one non-frivolous issue --QUESTION: Is that ex parte?MS. COFFIN: No. It's served -- it's served onthe other side.QUESTION: And it -- so is it generally arguedwhether or not these are non-frivolous issues? MS. COFFIN: It wasn't argued in this particularcase whether they were non-frivolous issues. It's a --it's a determination made by the district court. However,the other parties are served and certainly could make anargument --QUESTION: See, that -- that's why I thoughtthere --QUESTION: Could any -- could any of those -- ofthose events that you've just described, pre-filing of thehabeas, conceivably be affected by AEDPA? Is there any th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC way that AEDPA could have disappointed expectations withregard to that pre-application activity?MS. COFFIN: No.QUESTION: Why? I mean, that's -- what Idon't -- I'm a petitioner. I ask for a lawyer. The judgesays, do you have any non-frivolous claim? He says, sure,this is it, and you list them. Now, if, in fact, AEDPA'sin effect, we're going to apply a pretty lenient standardin reviewing the State court determinations on thoseissues, but if AEDPA isn't in effect, we're --QUESTION: Are the State court's determinationsreviewable?MS. COFFIN: Well, I -- I certainly --QUESTION: I mean, if the State courtappoints --QUESTION: I'm sorry. What I was thinking isthat if the standard for reviewing the State courtdeterminations is different, depending on whether youapply AEDPA or not, I don't see why, in principle, thatcouldn't affect the outcome of a judge's decision as towhether the issue in the petition in front of me is or isnot a frivolous issue.MS. COFFIN: I agree.QUESTION: So I think in principle it couldaffect the outcome. In fact, probably -- I don't know if th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC it did or not, but I -- I don't see the difference betweenthat affecting the outcome there --MS. COFFIN: Well --QUESTION: -- and the outcome of an early stagewhere you file the petition.MS. COFFIN: Well, in fact -- in fact, in thiscase there probably would have been a differentdetermination at least as to one of the two issues that --that Garceau put forward.QUESTION: I wasn't even aware that these thingswere reviewable. You -- you mean to say that you getjudicial review of whether, when counsel is appointed,the -- the trial court allows counsel to proceed with ahabeas? You -- you can take that up on judicial review?MS. COFFIN: Well, I -- I --QUESTION: Don't you just go ahead and whatultimately is reviewed is the -- is the substantivedisposition of the habeas application?MS. COFFIN: No. I -- I don't believe so. Infact, had the district court determined that there were nonon-frivolous issues, the stay would have been dissolved,and unless Garceau appealed that judgment of -- of thedistrict court or filed something else, he would have beenout of court.QUESTION: Well, what -- but what if the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC district court determined that these were non-frivolousissues? Does the State have any right to appeal thatdetermination? Has it ever happened?MS. COFFIN: I don't believe it's ever happened.QUESTION: But does the State have a right to beheard? The -- the question is whether the stay will becontinued. The Specification of Non-frivolous Issues isfiled. If the State says these are frivolous issues, canthe State be heard?MS. COFFIN: Yes.QUESTION: Can the State file a responsivepleading?MS. COFFIN: Yes.QUESTION: Do the -- do such hearings occur?MS. COFFIN: It didn't occur in this case. QUESTION: Yes.QUESTION: But there was some proceeding.MS. COFFIN: There was a proceeding. Before thestatement of non-frivolous -- Specification of Non-frivolous Issues was filed, the State objected to the staythat the district court had put into place to -- so that apetition could be filed because under the local rules, youcan't get an additional stay to file the petition unlessyou file this document that shows that you have at leastone viable issue. And so prior to the filing of that th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC specification by counsel, the State objected when thedistrict court extended the stay.QUESTION: And once the issue -- the statementof issues -- once that was filed, then there was noresponse?MS. COFFIN: No. There was no response from theState at that point.QUESTION: If there had been a response, theState had lost, and the State wanted to contest it, couldthe State take that up?MS. COFFIN: I believe -- I -- I believe thatthey could, but it didn't happen in this case.QUESTION: It -- it would be interlocutory.QUESTION: You just answered a minute ago to myquestion that they couldn't.MS. COFFIN: That they couldn't -- no. Isaid -- no. My answer -- I'm sorry if I gave a confusinganswer. My answer was they didn't in this case and I'mnot aware of it happening in other cases.QUESTION: Has -- you -- you don't know thatit's ever been done.MS. COFFIN: No. That's correct. That was myanswer.QUESTION: But if -- if the district judge said,all right, I accept these, you've got a non-frivolous th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC issue, at that point, the State couldn't go up to theappellate court because it would be very -- it would beinterlocutory.MS. COFFIN: I believe that's correct.QUESTION: Help me out and -- and tell mewhat -- what portion of -- of AEDPA would apply to thispre-application event.MS. COFFIN: Well if --QUESTION: (d) says, an application for a writof habeas corpus on behalf of a person in custody pursuantto the judgment of State court shall not be granted withrespect to any claim that was adjudicated on the merits inState court proceedings. Well, that -- that provisioncertainly wouldn't apply to any -- there -- nothing hasbeen -- been adjudicated on the merits. Right?MS. COFFIN: If the district court determinedthat -- if AEDPA applied and the district court looked atthe issues that you wanted to go forward on, and appliedthe deferential standard of AEDPA and, therefore,determined that, in fact, it was a frivolous issue becauseunder AEDPA you would not be able to win --QUESTION: Would you call that an adjudicationon the merits? Just the preliminary determination thatthere is or is not a frivolous issue here? I -- Iwouldn't call that a -- a determination on the merits. So th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC I don't think (d) would apply.What about (e)? (e) says, in -- in a proceedinginstituted by an application for a writ of habeas corpusby a person in custody pursuant to the judgment of a Statecourt, a determination of a factual issue made by a Statecourt shall be presumed to be correct. Are there factualissues decided in these -- in -- in these --MS. COFFIN: Well, there are --QUESTION: -- pre-applications?MS. COFFIN: There are factual issues put forth. The factual and legal foundation of the claims that --that are in the Specification of Non-frivolous Issues areput forth.But I think that there's an additional questionthat -- that needs to be examined, which is, is what Garceau filed, under this Court's precedent in Hohn, acase? And I believe that it is.QUESTION: Was that the view of the NinthCircuit?MS. COFFIN: Excuse me?QUESTION: Was that the view of the NinthCircuit when it decided this case?MS. COFFIN: The Ninth Circuit didn't applyAEDPA to this case.QUESTION: So you're saying even if AEDPA had th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC been -- had been applicable, your client still should haveprevailed.MS. COFFIN: No. What -- what I'm suggesting isthat AEDPA should not be applied to Garceau either becauseof the first argument that I made about McFarland, or ifthis Court is not satisfied that, in fact, Garceau had acase pending, which is the language from Lindh thatdetermines whether or not AEDPA should be retroactive.And I'd like to make one other point, which isthat there are -- it is a finite number of cases that werein the pipeline. It's a very unusual situation. In fact,you had to be post-State court determination and inFederal court and somewhere along in -- in the process inFederal court in order to be in this sort of bubble area. And I think --QUESTION: Well, Lindh was a similar case, wasit not?MS. COFFIN: Yes, but it was non-capital.QUESTION: I have a question about this -- theproceeding. AEDPA was pending when this was going on, andthe counsel that represented this petitioner was the samecounsel who represented him in the State court. Isn'tthat so?MS. COFFIN: Actually not. What happened waslead counsel in State court was unavailable to go forward th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC and neither counsel that -- there were two counsel thatparticipated at one point or another in State court, butneither participated in the whole case and neither waslead counsel. And so lead counsel was unavailable and thecourt appointed two new counsel who had some familiaritywith the case.QUESTION: Knowing that AEDPA was on the frontburner, counsel having some familiarity with the case, whydid they use all the time that the district court gavethem instead of filing before AEDPA went into effect?MS. COFFIN: Well, there were a number ofreasons for that. The first is that in State court,they -- there was neither discovery nor any evidentiaryhearing. There was no mechanism -- there was very littlemoney and there was no mechanism by which counsel could pull together an entire petition. And the district courtagreed with that by giving counsel funds in Federal court.However, the district court set forth a scheduleby which funds would be -- would be given, and thosefunds -- you did some investigation, you got -- yousatisfied the district court, you got more funds. Thelast funds were not -- were not given to counsel until,I believe, the end of May, which was only about weeksbefore the petition was filed. So that's one reason.The other reason is that counsel had to make a th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC determination, under this Court's precedent, whether ornot it would be a mistake not to file a full petition, thebest petition that could possibly be made and because itwould be possible that it might not have been able to beamended. And so --QUESTION: Ms. -- Ms. Coffin, you -- you have tomake the best argument for your client here, and -- andyou're doing that.But it strikes me that -- that there -- this issort of a mixed bag, that actually, in agreeing with you,we would probably be -- be harming most capitaldefendants, that is to say, your client will win on thisretroactivity point which will eventually vanish. It'sa -- it's a temporary problem.But the effect of our holding that -- that the habeas action for purposes of AEDPA commences with the --the initial request for counsel is that all -- all of thetransactions -- I mean, if -- if that provision that allfactual determinations by the State court must be deemedto be correct, that means that AEDPA would, in the future,apply to those -- to those determinations. Whereas, if wecame out the other way, until the habeas application is --is applied, the strictures of AEDPA don't -- are -- arenot applicable. So, you know, it's a -- it's -- it's nota -- not a win-win game, but it is for your client, I th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC suppose.MS. COFFIN: Well, actually, Your Honor, since Ihave clients in many different positions here, I actuallydon't believe that it would be a problem for other capitaldefendants, and I do believe that it's the correct resulton either basis that I have put forth for Garceau.QUESTION: Because even under AEDPA, if you justcome in at the threshold, the court -- the Federal court,in general, is quite liberal about letting you develop thefacts necessary to present your claim. It may be aproblem with amending a petition in habeas, but yourpoint, I take it, is that you can't envision any real harmto any of your clients if the starting date of AEDPA wouldbe considered the filing of the stay application and therequest for counsel.MS. COFFIN: No.QUESTION: May I just ask one question? The --the proceedings that took place between the appointment ofcounsel, which involved the -- whether the -- thestatement as to the kind of issues and so forth and theState's motion to vacate the stay and so forth -- werethey all given the same number that Justice Ginsburgreferred to earlier?And then after the habeas application itself wasfiled, was the case given a different number, or was the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC same number continued?MS. COFFIN: This case has only had one numberin district court, and it is one of the kind of ironies ofall of this. I would have thought that the word case isvery obvious. You go to district court. They stamp yourpapers. You have a number. That's your district courtcase and that's your case number. And that's the numberthat Garceau had all the way through his district courtproceedings. He then got a different number stamped onhis case by the Ninth Circuit when he was on appeal --QUESTION: Oh, yes --MS. COFFIN: -- but there's been one -- onenumber all the way through and you don't get a get adifferent number when you file a habeas petition.If there are no further questions. QUESTION: Thank you, Ms. Coffin.Ms. McLean, you have minutes left.REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF JANIS S. McLEANON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERQUESTION: Ms. McLean, we've been talking aboutthe statement of non-frivolous issues that's filed. Inyour view -- and I -- I would assume, at least forpurposes of my question, that AEDPA might make adifference, that it might be non-frivolous before AEDPA,but -- but then frivolous after. I'm assuming that could th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC be true because of clear -- clear and convincing evidencestanding, for instance.MS. McLEAN: Your Honor, I respectfully disagreewith that. There's nothing in AEDPA that applieswhatsoever to the pre-application period. The deferentialprovisions of (d) can only apply once an applicationis filed by its express terms.QUESTION: Well, I'm -- I -- I take it thedistrict court is interested. That's because they --that's why they require this filing -- whether or notthere's going to be anything here for the court toadjudicate. Is there some substantial issue?And the point of my question was going to belet's assume that post- and pre-AEDPA, the standard offrivolity changes. Let's assume that. Or non-frivolity. Would you say that there is an expectation that'slegitimate and that exists if there's a filing of astatement of non-frivolous issues pre-AEDPA and thenbefore the complaint is filed -- before the petition isfiled, AEDPA comes into effect? Would you say anexpectation has been established?MS. McLEAN: No. And the reason for that isthat that document that is filed is so skeletal that itabsolutely bears no resemblance to a -- ultimately to apetition. Its sole purpose is to satisfy the local th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC district court rules that require that there be someshowing for the court to exercise its discretion inissuing a stay.This Court recognized that requirement, or atleast a -- the discretionary nature of the State grant inMcFarland. This isn't something that automaticallyhappens. It's something that has to be deserved, and theway the local rules in -- in California work are that theyhave to file the statement -- a specification of non-frivolous claims. It doesn't ask for habeas relief. Inthis case, it stated out of ultimately claims thatwere ultimately raised. It -- it doesn't -- it's notlabeled a petition. There was no expectation whatsoeverby Mr. Garceau that that was treated as any sort of apetition --QUESTION: The only expectation is you'll get astay until you file your petition.MS. McLEAN: Exactly. That was its solepurpose. There's absolutely nothing that is in --contained in chapter that has anything to do with thepre-application proceedings.QUESTION: Well, why -- why --QUESTION: Would you just confirm for me the --the language of applies to an application for a writof habeas corpus. Okay. That's (d) and also (e) in a th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC proceeding instituted by an application for a writ ofhabeas corpus. Now, that -- that was not quite thelanguage involved in McFarland, was it? What was thelanguage involved in McFarland?MS. McLEAN: In McFarland, this Court wasconstruing the term post-conviction proceeding andsaying -- because -- U.S.C. --QUESTION: Before whom a habeas corpusproceeding is pending. I think --MS. McLEAN: That is actually the -- thecompanion provision, the State provision, in . Theprovision in U.S.C. specifies that there's anentitlement to an appointment of counsel in apost-conviction proceeding --QUESTION: Yes.MS. McLEAN: -- under -- arising under or.QUESTION: So you think instituted by anapplication for a writ of habeas corpus means just that. It has to be instituted by the application.MS. McLEAN: It's extremely explicit. And italso is consistent with how we're treating all otherhabeas cases.QUESTION: Can you -- forgetting the -- the --I -- I'm still slightly confused on what I'd call the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC practical point. Imagine on January , before AEDPA ispassed, they file a petition -- no, not a petition --a petition for a lawyer. And there's stay applications. And everything under the sun is litigated on that stayapplication, as it often is in a capital case. On June ,once the stay was granted, they file their official habeaspetition. On December , AEDPA is enacted. Now, thequestion is whether AEDPA will govern future proceedingsin the case. And what we've said is it doesn't governthose future proceedings if, in fact, that petition hadbeen filed on June . Right?MS. McLEAN: Well, this Court hasn't -- that'swhat this case --QUESTION: No. I'm saying the petition forhabeas. The habeas is pending as of the time that AEDPA was there. The petition for habeas was filed on June . The petition for the lawyer and so forth was filed months before. Am I right? Am I right? Maybe I mixedup that.MS. McLEAN: I -- I -- in all -- the only casesthat this Court has addressed is in the non-capitalcontext, and you have -- you've said that AEDPA appliesonce the filed petition is -- if the filed petitionoccurred prior to the enactment of AEDPA --QUESTION: If the filed -- the habeas petition th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC applies -- was filed, and habeas proceedings are underway,and then later on AEDPA is enacted, does AEDPA apply?MS. McLEAN: Once -- if the habeas petition --QUESTION: Yes, the habeas petition.MS. McLEAN: -- the application for merits isfiled before --QUESTION: Before AEDPA.MS. McLEAN: -- the enactment of AEDPA, yes,there -- that is not an AEDPA case in --QUESTION: Thank you.Now, what I'm saying is -- is January , theyask for a lawyer and then they go through the stay. OnJune they file the habeas petition. On December ,AEDPA is enacted. Now, we don't apply it to that casebecause the habeas proceeding was underway. MS. McLEAN: That's correct.QUESTION: All right. Why don't we? Becausethat judge might have made up his mind about variousthings because there could have been things decided. Now,why isn't precisely the same thing true as to the periodJanuary to June , where all kinds of things weredecided, the stay was litigated, the judge has made up hismind, who knows how it affected the future proceedings? That's what -- do you see the question?MS. McLEAN: I do. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: What's the answer?MS. McLEAN: Respectfully, though, I believethat that ignores the express wording of -- of AEDPA.QUESTION: I get the linguistic point. That'swhy I said that I wanted to know the practical point,which I think maybe Justice Kennedy's question was tryingto get at; I'm trying to get at.MS. McLEAN: Practically also, there is no --whatever litigation might occur with regard to the Stateproceedings has nothing to do with the merits of the casewhich is what AEDPA goes to. So there can be no harm. The fact that this was tremendously litigated Stateproceedings doesn't decide any issues that ultimately willbe affected by AEDPA. So there's no harm whatsoever.QUESTION: Well, you -- you described the -- the State proceeding as, quote, tremendously litigated, close. What did that -- what did that involve?MS. McLEAN: And in our -- I'm not saying thatthat happened in our case. I think that usually theydon't have -- there's virtually no litigation involved.In this case, what happened was that they'rerequired under our local rules to present theSpecification of Non-frivolous Issues. They have to atleast put in one or two of the claims that are ultimatelygoing to be raised. They didn't file anything. What they th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC filed was a conclusory statement that there wereconstitutional claims that would be made. And we objectedto that rightfully because they didn't satisfy our localrules. And so, it was that -- that was the sum total ofour litigation related to the State proceedings. Itcertainly doesn't create -- nothing occurred in this casethat would affect in any way --QUESTION: Wasn't there also a request forfunds?MS. McLEAN: There was -- there was a requestfor funds under -- there was a request for funds under.QUESTION: And that was before the -- before thehabeas corpus petition was filed, yes.MS. McLEAN: That's correct. Under becauseof -- it's part of that -- or that post-convictionproceeding that was construed in McFarland.QUESTION: I thought what had happened here wasthat the petitioner asks for a lawyer and a stay, and thenthe district court granted the stay. Then the State camein and said, we want you to vacate the stay. And then,the district court asked the petitioner to file the non-frivolous issues, et cetera, and so there was aconsiderable argument about whether the stay should bevacated or not vacated, which I guess eventually the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC petitioner won.MS. McLEAN: I think --QUESTION: It sounded to me like a fairlysubstantial proceeding.MS. McLEAN: I think that overstates thesituation.QUESTION: What is it now?MS. McLEAN: We filed papers that objected tothe fact that the stay had been granted based on afailure -- failure to comply with the local rules. And wefiled papers that stated that and the court ruled againstus because they corrected the deficiency, and that's allthat happened.QUESTION: But you say that whether or not thiscase is governed by AEDPA, AEDPA has no effect whatever on all of that.MS. McLEAN: AEDPA does --QUESTION: By its terms, it simply does notaffect it.MS. McLEAN: That's correct. And that is reallydemonstrated -- also another a twist on that is that an appointment, by its very terms -- if you look at(q)(), I believe is the provision, it talks about howa -- how the appointment of counsel survives the habeasproceeding. It goes on. The appointment continues on th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC into clemency proceedings and competency proceedings andother things. So clearly this is sort of an independenttrack. There's an appointment of counsel. It includesthat habeas corpus proceeding under chapter , and thenit survives and may go on into other areas.It also would survive the dismissal of apetition. We've had experiences in the Ninth Circuitwhere the petition that ultimately ends up being filed isdeficient. It gets dismissed out. They go back intoState court and they've allowed them to continue with thatappointment of counsel. And so it continues on. Itclearly is a separate phenomenon.QUESTION: But doesn't it --QUESTION: Suppose Garceau had filed ahandwritten thing, and he called it petition for habeas corpus, and it had the same thing as the statement ofissues?MS. McLEAN: I think he would have -- if --assuming that it had been -- asked for relief and statedat least one claim with a summary of facts, fact pleadingthat's required --QUESTION: Would there have been a problem thenfor counsel, once counsel is appointed? And my scenariois Garceau files his own petition, it's handwritten, andit's got one -- one issue. Then the lawyer is appointed, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC and a Dandy petition is filed with issues. Wouldthat -- would be any problem about that being considered asuccessive petition?MS. McLEAN: No. In my experience with theNinth Circuit, they're very liberal in that situation. Itoccurs frequently. Especially in non-capital cases wherea -- a petitioner is initially unrepresented and files alimited petition, the court's very liberal about grantingthe ability to amend the petitions later. They're notconsidered successive.QUESTION: Is it ultimately beside the pointthat AEDPA itself doesn't say anything about this -- theso-called pre-petition, the stay stage? Because if yourstay is dependent upon the Specification of Non-frivolousIssues, and frivolousness has some reference to the standards that you're going to have to meet for successand AEDPA affects those standards, doesn't, as a matterof -- of implication, doesn't AEDPA affect yourfrivolousness standard and hence have at least a potentialeffect at the stay point?MS. McLEAN: Your Honor, I don't believe thatthat's the case. The -- the non-frivolous issuestandard -- very low. They're just trying to make surethat there's some colorable claim, that -- that the stayis not being just granted on something that has -- that is th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC just air.QUESTION: Yes.MS. McLEAN: They want something there so thatthe court is reasonably exercising its stay discretionand -- and appointment of counsel discretion.That's a substantially -- that's unaffected, inmy opinion -- unaffected and substantially different thanthe question that comes up once the merits petition is onfile, and we're looking to see whether or not this is --this is -- there's a valid constitutional violation --QUESTION: Oh, I -- I quite agree. But if -- ifthe State decided that it simply was going to be lesscomplacent at the stage at which there is a request forstay and said, okay, we're going -- we're going to startcontesting the non-frivolous character of these -- these claims that are being raised, number one, wouldn't theState be able to do that if it thought it was worthwhileto spend its time doing that? And number two, if it didthat, wouldn't the ultimate standard of persuasion thatAEDPA applies have an effect on -- on the argument thatyou would make as to what was or was non-frivolous at thatstage?MS. McLEAN: A State could do that. The --I don't believe, again, though, that AEDPA has anyapplication to that. The question -- all we would be th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC looking at at that phase is whether there's enough tojustify the stay.The -- AEDPA goes to the issue of whether the --you know, what the State court adjudication of the claimwas and whether it was a -- involved a reasonableapplication of Supreme Court precedent and an entirelydifferent analysis. I don't believe that there was,a) any intent to affect that, or any actual effectwhatsoever from changing the deference that's ultimatelyapplied to a merits petition to have any effect whatsoeveron that initial inquiry that a -- that our courts inCalifornia require in order to satisfy the stayrequirement, or the --QUESTION: In any event, you're saying it isn'thaving an effect. It -- it --MS. McLEAN: I'm sorry.QUESTION: You're saying that, in fact, inCalifornia, it is not having such an effect.MS. McLEAN: It is not.QUESTION: Yes.MS. McLEAN: Thank you, Your Honor. Ifthere's --CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: Thank you, Ms. McLean.The case is submitted.(Whereupon, at : a.m., the case in the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC above-entitled matter was submitted.) th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC 