 IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XTOMMY G. THOMPSON, :SECRETARY OF HEALTH AND HUMAN :SERVICES, ET AL., Petitioners ::v. : No. -WESTERN STATES MEDICAL CENTER, :ET AL. :- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XWashington, D.C.Tuesday, February , The above-entitled matter came on for oralargument before the Supreme Court of the United States at: a.m.APPEARANCES:EDWIN S. KNEEDLER, ESQ., Deputy Solicitor General,Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on behalf ofthe Petitioners.HOWARD M. HOFFMAN, ESQ., Chicago, Illinois; on behalf ofthe Respondents. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC C O N T E N T SORAL ARGUMENT OF EDWIN S. KNEEDLER, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioners ORAL ARGUMENT OFHOWARD M. HOFFMAN, ESQ.On behalf of the Respondents REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OFEDWIN S. KNEEDLER, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioners PAGE th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC P R O C E E D I N G S(: a.m.)CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: We'll hear argumentnow in Number -, Tommy G. Thompson v. The WesternStates Medical Center.Mr. Kneedler.ORAL ARGUMENT OF EDWIN S. KNEEDLERON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERSMR. KNEEDLER: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court:It has long been a fundamental requirement ofthe Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act that a new drugmay not be marketed unless it has first been found by theFood and Drug Administration to be safe and effective forits intended use.Congress concluded that the protection of thepublic health requires that safety and effectiveness berigorously established by scientifically valid studiesrather than the impressions of individual doctors, andalso that persons who promote and distribute new drugsshould be the ones to undertake the studies necessary toestablish their safety effectiveness.In , Congress carved out a narrow exceptionto the new drug approval and certain other requirements ofthe Food and Drug Act for certain compounding by th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC pharmacists. The exemption is addressed to what is oftenreferred to as extemporaneous compounding. That is,compounding undertaken in response to a physician'sprescription based on the idiosyncratic needs of aparticular patient. Such compounding is typically basedon an existing relationship among the pharmacist,physician, and patient.Congress provided in section (a), which itenacted in , that the exemptions from the new drugapproval and other requirements of the act would belimited, and available only in circumstances thatconformed to extemporaneous compounding by pharmacists.QUESTION: Mr. Kneedler, a moment ago you saythis is based on an existing relationship between thephysician, the druggist, and the patient. What is meantby that term?MR. KNEEDLER: Well, I -- it's based on therelationship.QUESTION: Well, I could tell that.MR. KNEEDLER: Typically an existingrelationship in the sense that the need for compoundingoften arises where there may be a commercially availableproduct that maybe the physician has prescribed, but itmight -- or would have otherwise prescribed, but it mightcontain an ingredient to which the patient is allergic, or th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC it may come in a dosage that would be inappropriate for achild or an older person, and therefore the physician andthe pharmacist would consult and say, the pharmacist wouldbe asked, could you modify this in some way, or developthe same drug without the ingredient, so --QUESTION: The plaintiffs here seem to beengaged in a Nation-wide business.MR. KNEEDLER: Yes.QUESTION: They're not a corner --MR. KNEEDLER: No, it is -- and the record inthe case, the materials submitted in the district court,confirm exactly what you say. This is far different fromthat sort of situation. They're engaging in conduct thatis essentially indistinguishable from that of anymanufacturer or producer of drug products that is governedby the manufacturing --QUESTION: Well, can't Congress limit thecompounding to the ordinary prescription service that weexpect pharmacists to be doing?MR. KNEEDLER: And that's exactly what Congresshas done. If I --QUESTION: Well, but they added this ban onadvertising.MR. KNEEDLER: Well, if I could explain, the banon advertising is one of the conditions that confine the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC exemption to traditional extemporaneous compounding. Theothers are, for example, that it has to be on the basis ofan unsolicited prescription, that the drug can't beprepared in advance of the prescription except in --QUESTION: Well, don't all those things takecare of the Government's interest in problems? Whatjustifies the additional ban on promotion and advertising?MR. KNEEDLER: That condition is essential toprotecting the integrity of the new drug approval process,for this reason. The general rule under this act is thatthe introduction of any new drug in interstate commercemust conform with the prior approval requirements of theFood and Drug Act. This is a narrow exception from that,but what Congress had to do was draw the line between whatis extemporaneous compounding and what is not.QUESTION: Yes, but what I don't understand is,if Congress can limit in all these other ways the use ofcompounding of drugs, then why does it need thisadditional ban? The court below seemed to think that itwas not necessary, and I think I have the same problem.MR. KNEEDLER: Well, I -- first of all, we thinkthat the court of appeals really misunderstood what thegovernmental interest here -- the -- is here. Thegovernmental interest, again, is maintaining the integrityof the Government approval process and making sure that th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC those who hold themselves out as marketers anddistributors of new drugs comply with those requirementsin the same way that any other manufacturer must do. Themixing together of ingredients --QUESTION: Well, is there any allegation herethat the ads are false or fraudulent, misleading,deceptive? I mean, you could always attack that.MR. KNEEDLER: But that's not really the basicpoint behind this. Again, no one, whether he holds apharmacist's license, a physician's license, or not, maymanufacture and market drugs in this economy without goingthrough the prior approval requirement, and --QUESTION: And what does manufacture mean? Imean, that's a problem I have with this case, theymanufacture it. The manufacturer does exactly the samething that the compounder does, puts together two or moreother ingredients into a new drug.MR. KNEEDLER: I think that's a very importantpoint. There is nothing distinctive about a pharmacistputting together ingredients to produce a new drug ascompared with a traditional manufacturer.QUESTION: Exactly.MR. KNEEDLER: But what distinguishes it is thatCongress carved out a narrow exception, is the existenceof this relationship between the pharmacist, among the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC pharmacist, the physician, and the patient.QUESTION: But why does that -- why doesadvert -- you see, I don't mind -- don't mind. I mean,surely Congress can constitutionally limit it to try toprevent evasion of the normal approval process, but thereare other ways of limiting it, like saying, as youobserved, this particular druggist operates Nation-wideand sells, you know, thousands and thousands of dollars. Fine, put a dollar limit on the amount that any singledruggist can do. Wouldn't that achieve -- the problem isthat the Government has sought to achieve its limitationby placing a limitation on speech.MR. KNEEDLER: Well --QUESTION: Why did it have to do that? Why doesadvertising equate with manufacturing?MR. KNEEDLER: It -- what it equates with is themarketing of products in the economy, and this is not theonly situation under the Food and Drug Act where theadvertising that someone does is what triggers regulation.This Court last term in the Buckman decisionaddressed a very analogous situation, and if I couldexplain why it's analogous, I think it would beinstructive here. There, the Court pointed out that theFDA is faced with competing considerations. On the onehand there is a rigorous premarket approval process for, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC in that case, devices, which is very analogous to therigorous new drug approval process for drugs, but theCourt at the same time recognized that it is permissiblefor physicians to prescribe for off-label uses,physicians, but if a manufacturer of the drug advertisesthe product for a use that is not on the label, that isprohibited. What someone cannot do is market in theeconomy a drug for an intended use that is not on thelabel, because in that situation, as here, Congress wastrying to draw the line between marketing of drugs andprotection of profession --QUESTION: No, but it wasn't a distinctionbetween manufacturers. I mean, the problem there is, ifyou're saying it is good for this, that is one of theintended uses, and you have to have gotten approval forthat intended use. I mean, that's what did the trickthere.MR. KNEEDLER: Yes, but --QUESTION: It wasn't an equation of advertisingwith manufacturing.MR. KNEEDLER: Well, what it is, it's anequation of advertising with what triggers the, in thatcase the prior approval process and in this case the priorapproval process. When someone holds himself out asproducing and distributing drugs, then it is fair to make th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC that person, like every other manufacturer thatdistributes drugs in the national economy comply.QUESTION: Mr. Kneedler, would you explainsomething to me? Going back before the point where --everybody seems to agree that compounding andmanufacturing is no different, but there once was a worldwhen there were mostly corner pharmacists, and there wassomething called compounding which surely was discretefrom manufacturing, and it seems to me that what youdescribed as an exemption for the compounding was thefirst time that compounding is put together with newmanufactured new drugs.Before the alteration, how was compoundingdealt with by the FDA?MR. KNEEDLER: The FDA had taken the positionfor quite a while before the amendments of at leasttwo decades that pharmacy compounding, at least if itincluded such an indicia of manufacturing as advertising,or large volumes, a number of things that take it out oftraditional pharmacy compounding, extemporaneous, and putit into the basically predetermined or planned marketingof a product, that's the line Congress is trying to draw.QUESTION: But I mean, there's two kinds ofcompounding. Let's just say, it's the physician who'sprescribing this medication for a child, so it needs to be th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC diluted, pharmacist-diluted, is that manufacturing?MR. KNEEDLER: It would be producing a new drugwithin the meaning of the new drug provisions of the act,it would have been prior to . The position thatFDA -- FDA formalized its enforcement policy in tosay that compounding that occurs in the normal course, theordinary course of the practice of pharmacy,extemporaneous compounding that you've described to dilutea commercially available product, or to extract aningredient from it, that would be all right, but when thepharmacist stepped out of that role and behaved in waysthat a regular producer of drugs subject to the actbehaves, then the person is subject to the prior approval,good manufacturing practices requirements of the act,because again, in terms of function, putting togetherdifferent ingredients to produce a product, whether it's amanufacturer, or whether it is someone with a pharmacylicense doing it, that doesn't matter, and the importantpublic health considerations --QUESTION: What you're doing -- tell me if I'mincorrect. You're equating the size of the market withwhether there's manufacturing or compounding, and it seemsto me that advertising is not necessarily a good proxy forthat. Suppose you had a pharmacy that's near a home forsenior citizens, and they have particular success with one th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC doctor in compounding a particular drug.I take it if they advertise to the other doctorsthey take care of these people, now we can compound thisdrug for you, that that's a violation of the law. I don'tthink that that's a proxy for being a manufacturer. Wehave the other paradigm of this huge, Nation-wide chainthat advertise and they look more like a manufacturer. Ijust don't know that that's an adequate proxy.MR. KNEEDLER: Several things in response tothat. First of all, the new drug provisions of the actare directed at single incidents of introducing a new druginto interstate commerce, or a single incident ofreceiving this branded drug in interstate commerce, so theact applies irrespective of the volume. Now, obviouslythe magnitude of the public health problem expands as moreand more people are affected, but advertising, along withthe other conditions Congress put in the act, were apretty good indication of trying to draw a distinctionbetween traditional pharmacy and what the FDAQUESTION: No, but that's based on the size ofthe market, I take it.MR. KNEEDLER: No, it's based on the undertakingby the person who is producing, who is trying to put thedrug out on the market. It's really a difference betweenoffering services and offering drugs. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: I'll look at your brief again, but Ithought that your whole theory was that advertising is aproxy for market, which is a proxy for manufacturing,versus the compounding. I thought that was the heart ofyour case.MR. KNEEDLER: Well, it would certainly lead tothose consequences. My point is, though, that the lineCongress drew is not at a particular volume. It looked atthe traditional operation of the act, which prohibitsindividual instances of introducing drugs --QUESTION: Which is why advertising is such animprecise proxy.MR. KNEEDLER: No, I -- well, with all respect,what the pharmacist can do is advertise his services, hisprofessional services, and what the act does -- thisexemption in the act does is, respect that professionalservice and the relationship that grows out of thatprofessional service.QUESTION: Which can produce an enormous volume. Under the act, it's perfectly okay to advertise, you know,XYZ pharmacy. We compound whatever you want, best pricesin the country, guaranteed lowest prices for allcompounded drugs. That advertising's perfectly okay, solong as you don't name one particular compound that you'reoffering, right? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. KNEEDLER: Yes.QUESTION: And that's going to lead to certainlyvery, very much increased volume.MR. KNEEDLER: But what that does is conform tothe line Congress was trying to draw. It allows theadvertising of the services, but it does not allow theadvertising and therefore the attempt to develop a marketfor a particular product, or drug.Again, the Federal act is concerned withpromoting drugs, not services, so when you hold yourselfout as someone who says, I will sell drugs -- and if youlook at the record in this case, the plaintiffs haveadvertising that lists a whole variety of drugs availablefor infertility, for cancer, for things like that. Theyare behaving just like any manufacturer, any -- just likeexactly the sorts of persons that the new drug approvaland the good manufacturing practice provisions of the actwere designed to reach.I want to go back to Justice Kennedy, because Iwould like to extrapolate a little bit on your answer tohim. I thought, is this the -- what the Congress is afteris, it's simply a matter of volume, and you said no, so Isaid, well, what is it?Now, in my own mind what I thought is, it's thedirection where the demand comes from. There might be th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC children, and there are, who find it very difficult toswallow pills and who are undergoing chemotherapy, andtherefore there must be a way of adjusting that pill.Now, with some medicines, maybe there's onechild out of a million. With others, maybe there's oneout of . Both cases you want the demands for thespecial drug to flow from the doctor, through the patient,to the pharmacist, and what you don't want is it to flowfrom the pharmacist to the patient to the doctor back tothe pharmacist.MR. KNEEDLER: That's exactly right.QUESTION: The one is promotion and soliciting. The other is the doctor determining there's a genuine needfor a special medicine.MR. KNEEDLER: That's exactly right, and that'sexactly what the FDA was referring to and others havereferred to as extemporaneous compounding. It arises outof the relationship, so Congress -- in carving out thisexemption, Congress was doing a number of things. It waslooking at the --QUESTION: But you have prohibited, or theGovernment prohibits the pharmacy from advertising to thedoctor the availability of this remedy.MR. KNEEDLER: The -- it doesn't prohibit theavailability of the advertising services, which can th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC include, we can prepare a product to remove something towhich a patient may be allergic. We can compound aproduct --QUESTION: No, no. Suppose, in Justice Breyer'sexample, that doctors didn't know that this could be donewith this pill, and -- but under the statute you'redefending, the pharmacy could not advertise to doctorsthat it can prepare this drug in that way.MR. KNEEDLER: Well, but it -- what it can do,though, is advertise in general terms that it can remove,or it can produce a product that is like a commercial one,but while removing ingredients to which the person may beallergic, or dilute a dosage. That is enough to get thecritical information --QUESTION: Well, how do we know that, becauseundoubtedly I think what Justice Kennedy said must beright. One of the negative effects of the statute is, itdoes prevent the pharmacist from, through advertising,telling the doctor that we have this special way of makingdrug X. That is a negative impact. On the other hand,there are counterbalancing positive impacts in preventingthe general solicitation of the public, which will producea demand you don't want.Now, is there anything that tells us how thatcomparison breaks down? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. KNEEDLER: Yes, and I think the mostcritical thing that tells us that is the new drug approvalprovisions of the Food and Drug Act itself, which Congressenacted in and strengthened in precisely toreach the conduct of people developing new drugs andadvertising and promoting drugs that have not been shownto be safe and effective to individuals or to the publicat large. It is the act of --QUESTION: Yes, but when you have the basicprovision that compounding can only be conducted inresponse to a prescription by a physician, it's hard tounderstand why it has to be accompanied by a ban ontruthful speech about it.MR. KNEEDLER: Well --QUESTION: I mean, we've had a long history inthis very Court of giving voice to the notion thattruthful advertising is acceptable in this country.MR. KNEEDLER: But the new drug approvalprovisions of the Food and Drug Act rest on the premisethat the judgment of the individual physician is notsufficient. That is the very purpose of requiring priorapproval and requiring the person who wants to --QUESTION: Yes, but presumably compoundingcannot be done without resorting to approve -- the use ofapproved drugs. It's diluting it, it's mixing it some way th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC for children, it's adding some kind of sweetener so theycan swallow it.MR. KNEEDLER: That's one variation, but again,if you look at the record in this case, there are productsthat have been compounded that don't resemble that at all. What they are, are people holding themselves out aspharmacists who really see themselves as developing newcures, not just tinkering with an existing product, butputting --QUESTION: Mr. Kneedler, isn't it true that --we haven't talked about the severability issue, but as Iunderstand it, the whole statute has been heldunconstitutional, because they disagreed with the districtcourt on the severability point.MR. KNEEDLER: That's correct.QUESTION: It seems to me that you still canenforce -- I would have thought the parties to be arguingthe opposite sides of this case, to tell you the truth. It seemed to me the statute actually helps thecompounders, because it makes legal something that isotherwise illegal, and if the statute's knocked out, youhave all your enforcement mechanisms to prevent them fromdoing the mass marketing, don't you?MR. KNEEDLER: Yes. Well, not -- it wouldrevert to the situation before, in which this would be th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC absolutely prohibited.QUESTION: Right.MR. KNEEDLER: And FDA would have thediscretion, and again it's not just mass marketing, it isthe situation, as Justice Breyer described, of where thedemand comes from, and -- but more fundamentally, the actrests on the notion that it is fair to require people whohold themselves out and who attempt to develop and exploita market to go through the new drug approval requirements.QUESTION: I understand that, but it seems to methat the -- your opponents would be better off if thestatute were held to be constitutional than having it heldunconstitutional, because you now may prevent them fromdoing what you're basically saying is the wrong -- ismarketing new drugs.MR. KNEEDLER: Well, you make an importantpoint, because Congress looked at this problem in and, as the committee reports we quote show, it consultedbroadly about this and arrived at a consensus aboutexactly where this dividing line should be betweenextemporaneous traditional compounding and the traditionalkind of promotion of new drugs that the act was directedto.QUESTION: Well, maybe you can't do it that way. I mean, maybe the Government is just trying to ride two th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC horses at the same time, the one horse being that alldrugs must be approved by the FDA and the other one being,well, we're going to let, you know, drugs that areprescribed, special drugs prescribed by doctors are okay,and we're going to ride both of these horses at the sametime by imposing a restriction on truthful advertising. Imean, just maybe you can't do that. I mean --MR. KNEEDLER: This case --QUESTION: -- it seems to me that the ultimateproblem with the case is that the Government is trying tohave it both ways. --MR. KNEEDLER: Well --QUESTION: It's trying to say, it's not enoughto have the doctor approve this drug. We don't trustdoctors. We want FDA approval. But then on the otherhand it's saying, well, on the other hand, if it's adoctor and an individual druggist, it's okay. I don'tunderstand why that makes any sense.MR. KNEEDLER: The Central Hudson doctrine thatthis Court has developed for evaluating restrictions oncommercial speech, its virtue is that it allows therecognition of these very real problems that regulatoryagencies face.Again, it's exactly the sort of balance theCourt was addressing in Buckman last term between th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC respecting the integrity and creating incentives forproducers to go through the new drug approval process onthe one hand, but respecting professional services,existing relationships on the other, and under the CentralHudson analysis, as we explain in our brief, we think thisstatute easily passes muster, maintaining the integrity ofthe new drug approval process, and maintaining incentivesfor manufacturers to go through it is clearly, in ourview, a substantial governmental interest.QUESTION: They're talking about Central Hudsonand the narrow tailoring notion, or whether it'ssufficiently tailored. I forget the exact language.I take it you'd have a much stronger case if theprohibition was limited to prohibition of advertisingdirected at consumers, as opposed to advertising directedat doctors.MR. KNEEDLER: No, I -- again, the new drugapproval process of the act rests on the premises thatdoctors themselves cannot make independent judgments aboutthe safety and effectiveness of products, and that is --that was a very firm understanding of Congress when itpassed the new drug approval process.QUESTION: Unless they're druggists. Unlessthey're druggists who don't sell too much. Unless they doit with druggists who truthfully advertise. Why does that th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC make any sense?MR. KNEEDLER: But the paradigm that the act wasdirected to is where there is an approved new drugproduct, or an approved product on the market, and whatthe pharmacist is being asked to do is tinker with it alittle bit by diluting it, by something on that order, tomake it -- to adjust it but not be in the business ofdeveloping new cures, or advertising new cures forexisting diseases.QUESTION: No, but I thought just as JusticeScalia did, that you've really got two paradigms in it. One paradigm is, yes, you can't on a broad global scaledepend upon the prescriptions of doctors to guarantee thatthe drugs the patients are going to get are safe. That'snumber .Number seems to be that so long as you can besure that the doctor is focusing on what you earliercalled sort of the idiosyncracies of a particular patient,so long as we know the doctor is really paying attentionto detail, we can tolerate it up to a point, and theproblem that the Congress I thought was addressing is, howdo we draw the line so that we don't get a situation inwhich the doctor seems to be addressing idiosyncracies,i.e., he writes a prescription, but the volume gets sogreat that you know that that is not going on, and the act th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC seems to have two different answers. One answer is, don'tadvertise, because we know what that may lead to, and theother answer is, a restriction on volume that pharmaciescan write, or can produce.The question, I guess, that's bothering all ofus is, why do you need the advertising in addition to thevolume restriction. You can have it both ways, and youcan have it both ways by enforcing the volume restriction.MR. KNEEDLER: The volume restriction is on theaggregate number of compounded drugs.QUESTION: Then have a narrower volumerestriction.MR. KNEEDLER: But a drug that --QUESTION: Why can't a narrow volume restrictionwork?MR. KNEEDLER: A drug-by-drug volume restrictionwould be extraordinarily difficult to administer, withthousands and thousands of pharmacies across the country,and having to keep track of particular patient's names --QUESTION: Then have a lower -- then why nothave a lower aggregate?MR. KNEEDLER: Again, Congress, we think, wasentitled to look at the conduct of the pharmacist and takethe pharmacist at his word. If he stops being apharmacist -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: No, but that begs the question,because you know, the question is, under Central Hudson,is the pharmacist entitled to have his word, and --MR. KNEEDLER: Well, under --QUESTION: And why can the object not beaccomplished by restrictions in volume rather thanrestrictions on speech?MR. KNEEDLER: Because the restrictions onvolume is directed at the overall character of thepharmacist. The restriction on the solicitation andadvertising of a particular product is exactly what theFood and Drug Act is directed at, which is the promotionof a new drug, not just a volume, but a new drug, andCongress was specifically concerned about that as well.If I could reserve the balance of my time.QUESTION: Very well, Mr. Kneedler.MR. KNEEDLER: Thank you.QUESTION: Mr. Hoffman, we'll hear from you.ORAL ARGUMENT OF HOWARD M. HOFFMANON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTSMR. HOFFMAN: Mr. Chief Justice, may it pleasethe Court:I think in response to some of the Court'squestions I would like to give our position, therespondents position and a couple of key points on which th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC there may yet be some confusion, and I start with theproposition of why a compounding pharmacist is not amanufacturer, which seems to be a key point before thisCourt this morning, and I can understand why.Let me address what it is the manufacturer does,how he does it, and what a compounding pharmacist does,and I will also say that there are in these respondentsspecialty compounding entities so that when the court wasconcerned about, they sell their compounds Nation-wide,they dispense them Nation-wide, indeed, some of them do,and that's because they happen to specialize incompounding, and do that as a special service,specializing in the interaction, as part of their triad,where they work with patients, they work with thespecialist physician to, for example, treat cancers, treattumors --QUESTION: Mr. Hoffman, I take it all of this isin the record somewhere.MR. HOFFMAN: Yes, Your Honor. It is -- infact, it's in the affidavits in the lower court and theverified complaints. They work as part of this triad,they are specialists, and they work with infertilityspecialists, for example, for the purpose of helpingchildless couples be able to have children.QUESTION: May I ask -- you have large companies th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC as clients. Is it lawful, or is it part of the practiceto compound a large volume, have an inventory availablethat you then can advertise to the doctors, consumers thatif you prescribe it, we will sell it to you?MR. HOFFMAN: All that is lawful, and all --QUESTION: And is that part of the practice thatthey follow?MR. HOFFMAN: That is not what they do, exceptto this limited extent, and I don't want to mislead theCourt. Yes, these compounding pharmacists do not compoundin advance before getting prescription orders vastinventories. If that was the Court's question, the answeris yes, they do not.However, do they not at all pre-compound someinventory, and the answer is yes, they do, because underState laws and under the practice of pharmacy as it isdeveloped, if they know that there is, for a certaincompound, a historical ordering pattern, a week --QUESTION: Under your view of the case, it wouldbe perfectly permissible for them, if they can anticipatea large volume of sales of a particularly tailor-madecompound, they could store up a huge inventory and thenmarket it later?MR. HOFFMAN: No, Your Honor.QUESTION: Why not? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. HOFFMAN: My concern is with the word, hugeinventory. If the inventory is merely based upon a week,or --QUESTION: It's based on a prediction of whatthe doctors will prescribe.MR. HOFFMAN: Over the next week or two, yes.QUESTION: Why is it limited to the next week ortwo?MR. HOFFMAN: Mostly shelf life, and we don'tknow how long in advance this particular compound --QUESTION: The shelf life of some of these drugsis only a week?MR. HOFFMAN: No, we don't know that, but wedon't want to go further than a week or weeks for thesake of erring on the side of safety. We don't need to dothat, we don't want to do that, and that's not what we do. I don't want to leave the impression we stockpile hugeinventory amounts, because we don't. We just do enoughwhere there's a series of patients that are now under thattreatment to once compound it for that or -week periodif we know those kinds of refill orders are going to becoming back in again.QUESTION: Let me ask you what's going tohappen -- the Government for some reason did not raise oncertiorari the issue of the severability of the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC advertising provision, so if it is determined here that weshould affirm the judgment below, and the cause is notseverable, then do we go back to the old regime, whichwould allow no leeway for compounding?MR. HOFFMAN: I'm sorry, it would allow what?QUESTION: No leeway for compounding. Do we goback to a more limited regime for your clients, I assume?MR. HOFFMAN: First, we will revert back to thepre-FDAMA area, whatever that was. The Government nowmaintains that this compounding practice, under allcircumstances, as they say at page of their openingbrief, was always illegal. We strongly disagree withthat. We also believe that it's not an issue before thiscase because it wasn't preserved, but to the extent theCourt wants to know about it, there are innumerableprovisions in both title , which clearly indicate thatcompounds are not new drugs. The Government itselfacknowledges, even under FDAMA, it would not, and it isnot able to submit compounds for pre-market approval,because of the extemporaneous numbers in which the needfor them arises.I really want to go back, if I may, tomanufacturing versus compounding, and that we somehowconfuse the fact that once a volume reaches a certainlevel, it's suddenly manufacturing and not compounding, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC and that isn't the case at all, and let me explain why,and by the way, these are distinctions that are bothcovered in section (a)() -- at least one of them is --in title of the United States Code, and also in theState statutes governing pharmacy, and regulating pharmacyof each of the several States.QUESTION: Mr. Hoffman, in doing that, would youtake into account what Mr. Kneedler told us this morning,because I put the question to him, what is the difference,and he said, the Government's position is, compounding isa form of making a new drug, that everything fits underthe new drug, and that this section is designed to allow alimited kind of new drug-making. In other words, you aretelling us that there are two categories, compounding andmanufacturing. The Government is saying, there are newdrugs and, by the grace of Congress, we're allowing someof those new drugs to escape the full process.Now, you have told us in your brief that there's a bright line between compounding and manufacturing. Intelling us what that bright line is, will you also say howyou respond to the Government that says, we defineeverything as a new drug?MR. HOFFMAN: And to address that, Your Honor,we turn to United States Code, section (p)(), whichdefines a new drug, and the Government talks about -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: Where is that? Is that in thebriefs?MR. HOFFMAN: It's cited in the briefs.QUESTION: Is it --MR. HOFFMAN: It's referenced in the briefs. It's in Roman II of our response brief, (p)().QUESTION: Is the text there, or just thecitation?MR. HOFFMAN: Just the reference. It's thecitation. The text is not in the brief.Mr. Kneedler has it. Where is it from? It's insection (a) of the petition. Thank you.And Your Honor, on that, under that it says thatnew drugs need to be submitted for testing to be generallyrecognized for safety and efficacy. The Governmentacknowledges throughout, in all the pleadings in thiscase, in all the --QUESTION: I'm sorry, it's not a of thepetition. a of the --MR. HOFFMAN: It's on page -- I'm sorry, a.QUESTION: a, thank you.MR. HOFFMAN: And in that section it talks aboutsubmitting to the FDA for pre-market approval testing todetermine safety and efficacy. Throughout, in theGovernment's briefs, the Government's briefs acknowledge th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC that that is not possible for compounds. Compounds areincapable of being treated as new drugs, and that isbecause they appear so infrequently that you can't get astatistical data base to determine to the scientificcertainty --QUESTION: I have difficulty with saying it's soinfrequent, on the one hand, and you want to engage innational advertising on the other hand.MR. HOFFMAN: I'm sorry, Your Honor.QUESTION: You say it's so infrequently used,but then you say you want the right to advertisenationally.MR. HOFFMAN: Let us also talk about thenational advertising that we allegedly do, and I don't --I think I will come back to respond to the Court'squestion. I hope I do.QUESTION: You know, you say the nationaladvertising that you allegedly do, well, there's anallegation in your complaint which I presume you don'treally want to abandon, that advertising and promotionessential to do business in a market national in scope,and to inform physicians and patients of availability andbenefits of the special class, specific classes and typesof drugs the plaintiff compounds.MR. HOFFMAN: But the Government keeps asserting th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC that what we are advertising is finished products, andthey try to impress upon the Court, which is absolutelyuntrue, that the finished product sits on shelves waitingto be shipped out in bulk to individuals or to middlepeople. That's just not what we do.The advertising we do is to tell mostly thescientific community, nurses, medical care providers,mostly physicians, and at that special physicians --QUESTION: Well, you say in your complaint, youadd patients, too.MR. HOFFMAN: And to patients, yes, that thereare ingredients that are capable of being compounded, andthen in working with the physician, a mixture ofingredients, together with the inactive ingredients, willbe compounded into a delivery format that's best suitablefor a patient, be it a suppository form, an injectableform, an oral form, a pill, a patch form, et cetera.QUESTION: Mr. Hoffman, what you're telling usis something any doctor would know. Of course they knowthat things can be compounded and put in various forms. Doesn't your advertising get down to something prettyspecific?MR. HOFFMAN: It is specific in the ingredientsthat we list as being capable of being put into a compoundsuitable for a particular patient. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: And don't you key it to a particularcompound for a particular condition, or a particular kindof patient?MR. HOFFMAN: It will lead to a particularcompound in a particular dosage, worked out togetherbetween the pharmacist, the patient, and the physician --QUESTION: All right. Isn't that, therefore,where your argument is weakest? You're arguing thatthere -- that compounding cannot be manufacturing, becausecompounding is essentially patient-specific. It isidiosyncratic in the sense that Mr. Kneedler used the termand yet, for your advertising to be of any value and,indeed, as you have just described the advertising, you'regetting beyond specific patients. You're getting intoclasses of patients, and when you get into classes ofpatients, this neat distinction that you draw dissolves.MR. HOFFMAN: We're getting into classes ofdrugs, and we're getting --QUESTION: All right, classes of drugs andclasses of drug-takers. It's the same point.MR. HOFFMAN: And if there are classes ofpatients that require those classes of drugs, physiciansdo not know, always, what is available for theirparticular patient, and they have to --QUESTION: That's -- I'm sure that's true -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. HOFFMAN: Correct.QUESTION: -- and that's a different point, butI mean, this neat distinction between the, in effect, themass manufacturer and purely idiosyncratic compoundingjust isn't a neat distinction.MR. HOFFMAN: And we do not mass manufacture,and for some reason -- I apologize terribly that I'm notmaking that point, because let me explain what we do do.QUESTION: Let me just say, my concern here isthat you're telling us what the general practice of yourparticular client is. I thought what we were hearing wasthe legal question whether or not the Government mayforbid you from advertising that you compound a specificdrug, and it may be that that's not what you usually do.MR. HOFFMAN: Correct.QUESTION: But that's the question that we havebefore us, and if we affirm the judgment in your favor,you are going to be allowed to do advertising in a lotmore specific ways than you now describe, and that's thelegal issue we have to decide.MR. HOFFMAN: That's correct, and given what theGovernment-asserted interests are, that is to protectpublic safety, through theoretically ineffective andunsafe drugs, then the ban on advertising doesn't do thatat all. In fact, FDAMA had in it the laudable sections th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC which would have, in fact, been specifically addressed,which until the Ninth Circuit were still a part of FDAMA,only the advertising ban until then hadn't been heldunconstitutional.QUESTION: Well, but the advertising ban issurely devoted to keeping demand down, is it not?MR. HOFFMAN: Well, it seems to be, that iscorrect, and that is a most inappropriate way to addressdemand, by withholding truthful information from patientsand physicians who might benefit from that.QUESTION: Well, why doesn't it specificallyjust -- what they say, I gather, it's one thing for adoctor, together with his patient, to understand thepatient's allergy, or the hesitancy to swallow a pill, andsay to the druggist, will you adjust this. They want topermit that.What they don't want to permit is the kind ofadvertising which is a form of soliciting, which leadslots of patients, as I might -- or you might. Supposethey found something good for baldness, and suppose youcould only do it through compounding, and I read that inthe newspaper, I go to my doctor and I say, you know, thedruggist over here, I saw it on the Internet, is thereanything -- he says, is it safe? I guess so, I say,that's what it said on the Internet. He looks it up th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC there, and he prescribes that in reaction to what I want,rather than his thinking of it because of my special need.Now, once that happens, they say, you will seewidespread demand for certain drugs where there has beenno double-blind study, there has been no normal testing,there's nothing here but the word of the pharmacist, andthat is not sufficient to protect the public health andsafety.Now, you say that that advertising ban serves nopurpose, they say, that's the purpose, so what's wrongwith that argument?MR. HOFFMAN: There are many wrongs with that,and let me explain. First of all, it denigrates the roleof the pharmacist. It assumes that there's not a dialoguethat commences, for example, with the pharmacist.QUESTION: There's a dialogue, but what theyhaven't had is the double-blind test.MR. HOFFMAN: Correct.QUESTION: And Congress in this act says, wedon't want dialogue. We want double-blind studies beforewe let something go out into the marketplace, that's whatthey say, and that isn't here.MR. HOFFMAN: And the Government won't evenchange that, their intent of reducing volume theoreticallyis to protect widespread -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: Oh, it's not quite reducing volume. It might be that there are million children who have ahard time taking pills. It's to make certain that thedemand initiates with the doctor and the patient, and thedoctor recognizes the need of the patient, rather than aresponse to solicitation. That's the purpose, and it'snot quite volume.MR. HOFFMAN: Right, and at the end of the day,before any drug can be dispensed, the physician has towrite a prescription, he has to approve it, and it makesno difference at which end of the spectrum it commences,because it always ends up with the physician.QUESTION: It makes no difference. If that'strue, why when I turn on the television set do I seeadvertisement after advertisement asking me to ask mydoctor for -- and now, you fill in the blank -- if itmakes no difference?MR. HOFFMAN: What's the harm in the patientgoing to the physician?QUESTION: The harm is that there are no double-blind studies for this particular test, and therefore,while we'll make an exception where the doctor initiatesthis together with the patient, we don't want Breyer andhis friends seeing this on television and putting pressureon their doctors. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Now, that may sound a little vague, but what theCongress says, and what the FDA says, is that's necessaryto protect the public health, and what they say is notwithout plausibility.MR. HOFFMAN: There are innumerableopportunities to preserve and protect the public safetywithout resorting to First Amendment restriction.QUESTION: Of course, the advertising mandoesn't just apply that advertising to the general public. You cannot advertise to doctors, either.MR. HOFFMAN: I did not hear, I'm sorry.QUESTION: Does the advertising ban apply onlyto advertising to the general public? My understandingis, it applies to all advertising.MR. HOFFMAN: And it's not just --QUESTION: My understanding also is that most ofyour advertising does not go to the general public, butgoes to the doctors and medical professionals.MR. HOFFMAN: That is correct. First of all --QUESTION: So it is not a matter of getting JohnQ. Public to put pressure on his doctor.MR. HOFFMAN: And it is not just advertising. It is even the promotion and solicitation. As the lowercourt pointed out -- I think it was the Ninth Circuit, Iforget which, where it did not find or understand the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC rationale for why the patient or the doctor would have toask the critical question, what's the best thing for thispatient, or what's the best thing for me, because theywould first have to ask the question.And the whole concept of promotion andsolicitation -- forget about just advertising. Advertising conjures up a specific type of sales provokingtelevision ad, billboard ads, but pharmacists, as part ofthe canon of their ethics, is required as a professional,as part of the triad, who is not just a passive order-taker, who doesn't just count out and push pills, but aperson who plays a scientific role in the context, he hasto be able to on his own speak out and say, consistentwith the canons of his professions, this is better foryou. This is what the doctor brought in.QUESTION: Well, but --MR. HOFFMAN: I --QUESTION: -- it's a little less chummy than youmake it sound, I think, judging from your complaint. Youhave seven clients. They dispense in interstate commerce percent of their total sales, which amounts to or percent of their total sales in another capacity, and yousell all over the country, do you not?MR. HOFFMAN: We do.QUESTION: Well, then, your portrait of the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC intimate relationship between the pharmacist and thedoctor I think is a little, perhaps, overblown.MR. HOFFMAN: It is -- with all due respect,Your Honor, it is not, and let me explain why. We havethe same patient profiles in our records, notwithstandingthat there may be a half-a-country separating patient andpharmacist. We have numbers that the patients call inon, just as you would call to a local pharmacist.The only thing that is different is, there's alittle bit more distance. It may take an extra day orhalf-day to get the prescription out there, but thatintimacy in the relationship via the patient profiles, viathe ability to consult, is the same with these pharmacistsas it is with the corner druggist, if you will.QUESTION: Mr. Hoffman, perhaps I've deflectedyou before, but you were going to tell us something aboutthis bright line between what's a manufactured drug andwhat's a compounded drug.MR. HOFFMAN: Yes, Your Honor.QUESTION: So how do we tell whether one is acompound and whether it's a new drug?MR. HOFFMAN: Under Federal statute, forexample, manufacturing is defined as distribution tosomeone other than the ultimate consumer, and that's foundin United States Code, section (a)(). (a)() th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC defines manufacturing as distribution to a middle man, ora distributor, or a wholesale -- wholesaler, so rightaway, the first distinction is the pharmacist onlydispenses directly to the patient in the context of thetriad. He's available for consultation, he givesdirections on use, he has the patient profile on hisrecords. He knows what drug interactions there may or maynot be with this particular drug and this particularpatient.Second of all -- and, of course, themanufacturer doesn't do that, having no relationship withthe physician, having no relationship with the patient.In addition to that, they do, manufacturers do aone-size-fits-all type of product. They have determinedthat there is this vast, multimillion person individualneed for a particular drug, and they fit that niche, andthey play to it, and they market to it, and theymanufacture for it, unlike --QUESTION: The definition in (a)() appliesequally to manufacturing and compounding.QUESTION: And compounding, yes.MR. HOFFMAN: I'm sorry.QUESTION: The definition in (a)() is adefinition of the term, manufacturing, preparation,propagation, compounding or processing. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. HOFFMAN: Then I may have --QUESTION: It describes them in the samedefinition.MR. HOFFMAN: I may have mis-cited. Then it's, but it talks about manufacturing, and I apologizethat I don't have that number.QUESTION: Oh, this talks about manufacturing,but it also -- what it says is, manufacturing as well ascompounding shall include repackaging or otherwisechanging the container in furtherance of the distribution.MR. HOFFMAN: Correct.QUESTION: It has nothing to do with what we'retalking about here. What's the other section youwanted --MR. HOFFMAN: And the other section will besection (a)().QUESTION: (a)().MR. HOFFMAN: -- actually, it's (), or(g)(). They're identical.QUESTION: Where do we find these?MR. HOFFMAN: Your Honor, I'm sorry, I don'thave the reference cites here.QUESTION: Well, I -- you know, I found --QUESTION: (a).MR. HOFFMAN: I'm sorry. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: (a).QUESTION: Well, can I turn to (p), which isthe other section --MR. HOFFMAN: Yes, Your Honor.QUESTION: -- you cited earlier, and you saidthat that section makes clear that compounding --QUESTION: What page are you on?QUESTION: That's a of the Government'spetition. You said that (p) makes clear thatcompounding is not manufacture of a new drug?MR. HOFFMAN: No. What I said was, it definesnew drugs, and under a new drug, it has to be capable ofbeing submitted to the FDA's new drug process. TheGovernment --QUESTION: You said more than it just definesnew drug. You said that that definition makes it clearthat compounding isn't included.MR. HOFFMAN: No, but by --QUESTION: And that that's why it's no problemto you if we invalidate the whole statute and you go backto the status quo ante, because you say compounding is nota new drug anyway, right?MR. HOFFMAN: That's correct.QUESTION: That was the context in which it cameup. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. HOFFMAN: It is not a problem.QUESTION: Okay.MR. HOFFMAN: We would be delighted --QUESTION: Now, what is it in that definitionthat you think exempts compounding?MR. HOFFMAN: Because it talks about drugs thatare capable of being submitted, and the Government itselfacknowledges that we cannot submit compounds for new drugapproval --QUESTION: I don't see anything in thedefinition that says -- I mean, we went through this inthe tobacco case. I thought that a new drug was any drug,except grass.MR. HOFFMAN: But how can it be a new drug thatcannot be tested?QUESTION: I don't know. That's why I'm justsaying --MR. HOFFMAN: Right.QUESTION: -- that's what it says here, so ifthere is some exception for some of these things --MR. HOFFMAN: No.QUESTION: I don't see it --MR. HOFFMAN: I really think --QUESTION: Where does it say capable of beingsubmitted? I -- where does it say capable of -- that's th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC not --MR. HOFFMAN: But you have to read it into --the word -- it does not use the words, capable of. Itsays -- it says, has to be --QUESTION: Will you read it verbatim, please,instead of just trying to conjure it up?MR. HOFFMAN: It -- what I was referring to is,any drug which is not generally recognized among experts,qualified by science as safe and effective, the case lawunder that determines that in order to determine safetyand efficacy, the drug has to be submitted to thisexhaustive FDA free market approval process. TheGovernment acknowledges that that costs hundreds ofmillions of dollars. It also requires, as case lawidentifies, a huge data base from which to be able to drawand determine the safety and effect -- efficacy, none ofwhich can be done for --QUESTION: That's why they want the exception. Of course you're right about that. They want theexception, but the issue before us concerns one part ofthe definition of the exception, and so I don't really seewhat you're talking about now has to do with that.I mean the real issue, it seemed to me, was whatwe've been trying to get, which is the pros and cons ofdefining this exception a particular way. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. HOFFMAN: Okay, because there would havebeen ways to make compounds safe and effective, and theseways would have been -- and they were in FDAMA until theywere held not severable by the Ninth Circuits, and thiswas the use of ingredients that appear in thepharmacopeia. We took no quarrel with that. That seemedto be something that addressed the safety of the public.It also required that the Secretary prepare somelists. One of them was, if there was an ingredient thatwas necessary for compounding, the Secretary could bepetitioned -- I'm sorry, if there was an ingredientnecessary that didn't appear in the pharmacopeia, theSecretary could be petitioned to put onto that listsomething that the Secretary would determine was safe andeffective.If there was something that was established thatwas not safe and effective for compounding, FDAMA includeda list to be prepared by the Secretary to forbid thesekinds of products to be used as ingredients incompounding. Compounding would have to be done bylicensed physicians. It would have to be done by licensedpharmacists. These were all the conduct-specific relatedregulations that one would applaud, that Congress has aright to do.But to try to reduce the demand, and try to keep th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC truthful information by restrictions on First Amendmentis, this is what's offensive about that part of FDAMA. Wedidn't seek to have the conduct-related provisionsstricken, and in fact it was the Government that it,itself put it in, then went to the Ninth Circuit and said,well, we can't have the First Amendment restriction, wedon't want the others, either.I also want to point out that when it comes tomanufacturing, manufacturing, going back to JusticeGinsburg's question, we sell it retail, they sell itwholesale. We sell pursuant to a prescription. They selljust to a middle man distributor. We provideconsultation. There is no consultation when it comes to amanufacturer.There's also, on this issue of widespreadedness, the degree, or the volume concern. First of all, we canonly dispense, and we routinely only prepare upon receiptof a pharmacist's -- of a physician's prescription, but inaddition to that, if volume were such a concern, there wasunlimited intrastate transportation allowed, dispensing ofpharmaceuticals, so I seriously question, for example,whether or not they even -- FDAMA even addressedadequately the volumes, the volume restrictions it wastrying to impose.Also, for example, positron emissions th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC compounding, and radiopharmaceutical compounding wereexempted from the operation of FDAMA, so that potentiallythe most lethal, most dangerous of all the compounds couldbe advertised, promoted, solicited, and no pharmacopeiaingredients could have been used for them.They also provided for industry transportationin the event of a memorandum of understanding. Up to percent of the total pharmaceutical sales by that pharmacycould be shipped intrastate, so that if, for example,there were five compounding pharmacists in a State, theycould fill percent of the outside -- of the out-of-State demand, so at the end of the day, as in Greater NewOrleans, this case -- I'm sorry, this statute was soriddled with exemptions -- with exceptions that underminedthe Government's own very purpose, that it would fail justbecause it was simply irrational.As the Court pointed out already, it isirrational to suggest that only speech that's provoked bythe physician can be unregulated, whereas the same speechin the context of a professional relationship as provokedby the pharmacist, then somehow it becomesunconstitutional.In the lower court we pointed out the following. That means under this statute a pharmacist would have tohave a little sign on his counter. On this little sign it th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC would say, please ask me to tell you what I think youshould know, but because of FDAMA, I, under restrictionson advertising, promotion, solicitation, am forbidden fromtelling you.If there are no further questions, I shallconclude.QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. Hoffman.Mr. Kneedler, you have minutes remaining.REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF EDWIN S. KNEEDLERON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERSMR. KNEEDLER: Mr. Chief Justice, what Congresswas trying to do here was to make sure that the narrowexemption that it intended did not swallow the criticalgeneral rule that new drugs have to be submitted to priorapproval.The question of volume limitations has beenraised. The act contains an aggregate volume limitationbut, as I mentioned, individual drug-by-drug volumelimitations would be very difficult to administer, andCongress was not required to go down that path, but anadditional point about that is that if you look -- if youadd up a couple of prescriptions by each pharmacy, Nation-wide you will be talking about a pretty large volume of anew drug, which is precisely the sort of thing that shouldbe submitted to the FDA for prior approval. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC The act does not just prohibit manufacturing newdrugs, it prohibits the introduction in interstatecommerce of new drugs. It isn't just focused on largevolumes, it's focused on individual instances. So are themisbranding and adulteration provisions of the act.The line Congress drew here that includessolicitation and advertising among the conditions was notinvented in . In case law it goes all the way back to in the Cedars case we mentioned in the brief, wherethe Court there was trying to define the scope of theexpress exemption for pharmacy in registration andinspections, and among the factors it says when someonesteps out of the traditional pharmacy role was, do theyengage in promotion of the product.The definition also appears in the Model Rulesof Good Pharmacy Practice of the State of the NationalAssociation of State Boards of Pharmacy, which says thatpharmacists should not solicit or advertise compoundeddrugs.All of this represents a general understandingthat compounding by pharmacists has to be contemporaneousand responsive --QUESTION: How does the doctor find out -- howdoes the doctor find out that -- he knows that Joe Smiththe pharmacist deals with compounding generally. He th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC thinks that this patient might use the compounded drug. How does he know that this particular drug can becompounded?MR. KNEEDLER: That's what he is supposed --QUESTION: How does he find that out?MR. KNEEDLER: The pharmacist holds himself outas having pharmacy services and expertise, and that'swhere the promotion of the consultation and theprofessional relationship --QUESTION: No, no, but does he have to call thepharmacy --MR. KNEEDLER: No. The pharmacist can advertisethat he engages in the pharmacy services.QUESTION: Take my question. My question is notwhether this pharmacist engages in compounding. We knowit. How does the doctor know that the pharmacist cancompound this drug?MR. KNEEDLER: He has to ask.Under respondent's theory, a pharmacist, someoneholding a pharmacist license presumably could promoteLaetrile, or could promote Prozac and advertise it to themarket at large, and Congress certainly did not expectthat sort of thing.CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: Thank you, Mr.Kneedler. The case is submitted. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC (Whereupon, at : a.m., the case in theabove-entitled matter was submitted.) th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC 