 IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XTHOMAS JOE MILLER-EL, Petitioner ::v. : No. -JANIE COCKRELL, DIRECTOR, :TEXAS DEPARTMENT OF CRIMINAL :JUSTICE, INSTITUTIONAL DIVISION. ::- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XWashington, D.C.Wednesday, October , The above-entitled matter came on for oralargument before the Supreme Court of the United States at: a.m.APPEARANCES:SETH P. WAXMAN, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf of thePetitioner.GENA A. BUNN, ESQ., Chief, Capital Litigation Division,Assistant Attorney General, Austin, Texas; on behalfof the Respondent. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC C O N T E N T SORAL ARGUMENT OF SETH P. WAXMAN, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioner GENA A. BUNN, ESQ.On behalf of the Respondent REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OFSETH P. WAXMAN, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioner PAGE th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC P R O C E E D I N G S(: a.m.)CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: We'll hear argumentnext in No. -, Thomas Joe Miller-El v. JanieCockrell.Mr. Waxman. ORAL ARGUMENT OF SETH P. WAXMANON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERMR. WAXMAN: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court:Hernandez v. New York described a hypotheticalcase, a case in which the evidence of racialdiscrimination during jury selection was so strong that,quote, "a finding of no discrimination is simply tooincredible to be accepted." This is truly thatexceptional case, and therefore the Court should use it asa model, a model of the weight of evidence sufficient torender objectively unreasonable a trial judge's rejectionof a Batson challenge. Indeed, whatever --QUESTION: Well, now you -- you -- Mr. -- Mr.Waxman, you've got two presumptions going against youhere: the -- the first, the Hernandez presumption thatthe trial court has to be deferred to, and then the AEDPApresumption. So I -- I hope you'll take those intoaccount. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. WAXMAN: I want to embrace them, Mr. ChiefJustice. (Laughter.) MR. WAXMAN: I fully recognize, as an officer ofthis Court and somebody who has followed thisjurisprudence, that even on direct -- that the deferencethat is paid to a trial judge in a Batson hearing is sostrong that even in Hernandez, this case said on directreview -- and Hernandez made reference to the highstandards of proof in habeas -- even on direct review, weare going to require proof that a trial court's finding offact in a Batson hearing is erroneous by clear andconvincing evidence. And to that, AEDPA enacted subsection(d)(), which says that you -- a writ may not issueunless the State court adjudication resulted in a decisionthat was based on an unreasonable determination of thefacts in light of the evidence presented. There are very good reasons to provide thesedual levels of deference to the trial judge. The trialjudge in the case, of course, is the finder of fact, andin Hernandez this Court has made clear that the ultimatefinding in this case, the finding of whether or not thetrial prosecutor engaged in intentional discrimination inmaking race the tipping factor, a but-for factor with th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC respect to the strike of any peremptory -- of any jurorunder a peremptory challenge -- is a factualdetermination.But (d)() and the clear and convincing evidencestandard are there for a reason. They are there for thetruly exceptional case in which there are reasons tobelieve that the trial judge's findings are deluded, andthere are reasons to believe that the evidence suggestingthat the trial judge's finding was unreasonable areoverwhelming.And I'd like to address the first first and thesecond second, because I think it is entirely clear thatgiven the facts of this case and the way in which the --the trial judge in this case conducted the hearing, thatwhatever this Court decides, this case is going to standas a benchmark, either that these facts represent anextreme that cannot be tolerated or that even theseextreme facts are tolerable under Batson.Now, let me speak first to the trial judge.The trial judge was conscientious and he was, ofcourse, to some extent disabled by the fact that the trialin this case immediately preceded this Court's decision inBatson. That is, this is one of these few cases where thetrial occurred before Batson, but the case was pending ondirect appeal when Batson was decided. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC And so we have in this case a trial judge whoconducted the Batson hearing over years after the jurorstestified and after the trial prosecutors gave theirreasons for all but two of the jurors. And therefore, theone hallmark of deference, which is that the trial judgeis a percipient witness of the res gestae, if you will,did not exist in this case. The -- the decided casesunder the Texas Court of Criminal Appeals reflectsignificantly more than a dozen cases decided by thisjudge in that -year interim period. He saw thousands ofvenire members and undoubtedly heard hundreds, if notthousands, of Batson explanations. And moreover, whereas it is true that the trialjudge observes the demeanor of the witnesses and aprosecutor can certainly use as a race-neutral reasonquestions raised about a juror's fitness or suitabilitybased on demeanor, the objections in this case, with onelimited exception, the prosecutor said nothing about thedemeanor. The prosecutor's stated objections to the ofthe African Americans who were struck were substantivereasons there on the record.In addition, the trial judge in this case didnot --QUESTION: Well, but certainly demeanor couldplay a part in that even though you don't -- you don't say th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC it.MR. WAXMAN: I --QUESTION: You say he's -- he's prejudicedagainst the Government and, you know, perhaps the way heanswered questions may give you a reason to think that,that the transcript doesn't. MR. WAXMAN: I can -- I -- I embrace that, Mr.Chief Justice. For many years before I entered this lineof work, I was a trial lawyer and I can rememberexercising peremptory strikes just because of hesitation.My only limited point here is that unlike manyvoir dire hearings -- and I've now reviewed many -- therewas only one single isolated instance in which theprosecutor, in giving his reasons either at the time or inthe Batson hearing, said he hesitated or his demeanor ledme to question it. And so in that one respect, I -- againI think this case is more susceptible to meaningfulappellate review. But I have two more points I think it's veryimportant for the Court to consider about the way thistrial judge conducted this unusual case. QUESTION: At -- at what stage, Mr. Waxman? Yousay this was years after the actual trial? There was a-- a State habeas proceeding or something? MR. WAXMAN: Oh, no. It was direct appeal. The th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC case was tried. There was an immediate appeal taken. During the -- right after -- I think a month after thecase was tried, Batson was decided, and years later, theTexas Court of Criminal Appeals abated -- the Texas Courtof Criminal Appeals said of African Americans werestruck. That raises an inference of discrimination underBatson. Remand it for a Batson hearing. And it was atthat hearing that the judge made the findings of fact andconclusions of law that are reflected in the -- in thejoint appendix. There was a subsequent habeas proceeding in theState courts, but the habeas proceeding didn't deal withthe Batson issue because it had been fully exhausted.The trial judge, in evaluating Batson, did notlook at the very substantial evidence of pattern andpractice evidence with respect to what was going on inDallas County at this time, evidence that the magistratedeemed appalling. He was told by the State not to look atit. He did not consider what the State acknowledges to beracially disparate -- disparate questioning of the jurorsin venire on the question -- their ability to impose aminimum sentence --QUESTION: How do we know -- how do we know hedidn't look at that? MR. WAXMAN: We -- we don't know to a certainty th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC that he didn't. He was told by the State that all of thatevidence was irrelevant. Indeed, the State took theposition that a -- that comparative evidence between whitejurors and black jurors was irrelevant. That was theground on which they urged this Court to deny the petitionfor certiorari on direct appeal. All I can say is it'snowhere reflected in the district judge's opinion. The --the trial judge's opinion addresses only the six jurors inquestion that my predecessor claimed were struck inviolation of Batson.QUESTION: But he did say, didn't he, when headmitted the -- as you pointed out, when he admitted the-- the newspaper article, that he'd take it for what itwas worth? MR. WAXMAN: He did. And there's an ambiguity,and that's why we think, interestingly, that this case isa (d)() case rather than a (d)() case. In this Court,as opposed to in the State courts, the State of Texas ishere before you saying the judge considered everything. The Texas Court of Criminal Appeals considered everything. They don't have to discuss everything that theyconsidered, and therefore, there is no legal error thatwas committed. And our submission to you is I don't knowif that's right or not. It doesn't appear to be right,but whether it's right or not, the result that they th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC reached, the conclusion that they made that there was no-- that -- that race was not a but for factor with respectto not one, not two, but six of these people. Under the record of this case and in light ofthe way they conducted the jury shuffle in this case,which cannot be justified on non-racial grounds --QUESTION: Before you get to the jury shuffle,how long before the -- the voir dire in this case had thenewspaper article surfaced? And there were, I guess, twositting judges who had once been prosecutors and theysaid, well, we had a manual that we work with. Couldthere be an argument that that -- that the last indicationthat the manual was being used was years before thistrial? Or is there evidence that it was being used rightup to the time of the voir dire? Could you tell me aboutthat? MR. WAXMAN: I'll address the newspaper articlesfirst, I guess you were asking about, and also the manual.QUESTION: Yes. MR. WAXMAN: The newspaper articles -- therewere two series of newspaper articles. There were threearticles that came out in the first or second week ofMarch which was either just as the or weeks of juryselection was closing or after it, but it was before thetrial began. And those articles precipitated the -- what th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC was called a Swain challenge but it -- what became aSwain-Batson challenge. There were -- there were other articles thatwere subsequently issued after the -- after the trial inthe case but before the direct appeal and the Batsonremand that looked at the racial percentages in capitalcases which mirrored the -- in many ways the -- the Marchth article that examined jury selection in felonycases. Now, the manual. There were two manuals in thecase. One of them, the earlier, more explicit manual, was not offered. It is discussed in the March thDallas Morning News article which was admitted in evidenceat the Batson hearing. The other manual, the John Sparling manual --Mr. Sparling testified. There was testimony in the caseby Judge Baraka and one other witness -- and it may havebeen Mr. Sparling -- that they were not sure when themanual ceased to be used. The Texas Court of CriminalAppeals in a case called Halliburton concluded that themanual was in use at least through the early 's Ithink or in -- by or something like --QUESTION: And this trial was '? MR. WAXMAN: This trial was ' I believe. But one of the things that's most striking in th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC the case is -- there's -- there -- it is clear that atleast one of the two prosecutors in this case was trainedby this office at a time when the manual was concededly inuse. The other one may have been. But one of the things that I found striking,just going through the juror information cards yesterdayactually in preparing for the oral argument, which appearin the joint lodging at pages to -- these are thejuror cards that people get, the prosecutors and triallawyers get, before voir dire begins. If you look at whatis noted there, the race and the gender and religion andbeards and things like that, there is a remarkablecoincidence with the issues and factors that arespecifically addressed in the Sparling training manual. It's not our submission that it's proof they were trainedby it. It's not our submission that they adhered to it orthey used it. We're using this pattern and practiceevidence just as a --QUESTION: Mr. Waxman, could I just interrupt toask one question? When were those notations put on thosecards, do you know? MR. WAXMAN: The answer must be that they wereput on at different times. If you look at the notationsthat say -- the race and the gender notations, each onehas it. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: Now, these are --MR. WAXMAN: Those had to have been put onbefore any questioning occurred because there -- they areon those cards for jurors that were never reached or werenever questioned. There are other notations about answersthat appear to be in different handwriting, and I don'tthink the record shows it at all, but you can infer thatthey were noted at the same time that the prosecution madenotes on the jury questionnaires which are also in the --in the joint lodging.But the -- the other point I just want to makeabout the trial judge is the -- we know -- there's not aquestion about whether the trial judge's findings areunreasonable in light of the evidence. Finding number ,the trial judge said there was no disparate examination ofany venire member. Well, in this Court, the State has totallydisavowed that. The State acknowledges that when jurorswere questioned about their ability to impose the minimumpunishment for the lesser included offense of murder, theyused two different scripts. And when they talked aboutthe means of execution, they used a graphic script thatwent on in detail to explain how somebody is executed inTexas, and a regular script that just said, how do youfeel about the death penalty? Now, they -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: If we agree -- if we agree with youranalysis of number , does that suffice to vitiate number?MR. WAXMAN: I --QUESTION: That the -- that the court finds thatthe explanations given by the prosecutors in each --prosecutor in each case were completely credible.MR. WAXMAN: I think it does. The one thatwe're -- that -- that you have to focus most directly onis number --QUESTION: That's the conclusion. MR. WAXMAN: -- which is the -- the finding,which is the ultimate finding. But my point is that there are a number offindings that this judge made that are at the very leastsuspect and one in which the State has completely walkedaway from. And I want -- I want to spend, if I can, just afew minutes talking about the jury shuffle and thedisparate questioning because I've been a trial lawyer formany years, but never tried a case in this system, and itwas sort of a little bit confusing to me. But with respect to the disparate questioning,each of the prospective jurors was questioned aboutwhether they could impose the minimum punishment if they th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC found that the offense was murder and not capital murder,and the minimum punishment being years. And they werealso asked about their views about capital punishment.Now, some of those people who were asked abouttheir views about capital punishment were first treated toa graphic description of how that punishment occurs. Andsome of the people who were questioned about minimumpunishment were told in advance the range is years to years. Could you do either? And many of them were justasked, what do you think the minimum penalty is that youwould impose for willful, deliberate, intentional, cold-blooded murder where there was no robbery?And our submission in our principal brief andbelow was that the State used those disparities in aracially discriminatory manner and that bears tremendouslyon the intent of the prosecutor in executing theperemptory strikes. And their --QUESTION: Are you saying -- are you saying thatthe prosecutor on voir dire must ask, when he gets to thequestion of, you know, how do you feel about -- must askthe same questions to every juror?MR. WAXMAN: Not at all. They don't have to askthe same questions. They don't have to ask them in thesame way. All that we're saying is that when they do askthe same questions and they ask them in a way which is th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC acknowledged to be different and they acknowledge thatthey --QUESTION: Well now, wait a minute. You saywhen they do ask the same questions and they ask them in away that's acknowledged to be different, that seems like acontradiction just starting out. MR. WAXMAN: I think I -- I managed to confuseeven myself. QUESTION: Good. (Laughter.) MR. WAXMAN: The prosecution -- I believe thatMs. Bunn will confirm. The prosecution said we had twodifferent ways of questioning about these two subjects,and we used them deliberately at -- with different jurorsand we did it in order to remove jurors that we thoughtwere weak on the death penalty. That is the reason thatthey give and that's the reason against which theirjustification must be judged, and it is --QUESTION: You would concede that would belegitimate, that that --MR. WAXMAN: Sure, if you -- I -- if you --somebody says, look, I -- there's no way I can impose thedeath penalty, and -- as a -- as a prosecutor I don't want-- I don't know if I can use a for cause strike, I don'twant to use a peremptory, let me see if I can't get them th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC to say something that will allow the judge to knock themout for cause, that's entirely legitimate. The question is why did they do it. Because itwould be illegitimate if they were doing it deliberatelydisproportionately against black jurors because they wereblack and it would be legitimate if they were saying,okay, you know, people who expressed hesitation about thedeath penalty -- we're going to do everything we can totry and get rid of these people for cause. And let's just look at the State's ownstatistics. This is their statistics from their brief atpages and and notes and . With respect to minimum punishment, seven of theeight African American jurors who were questioned aboutminimum punishment were not told in advance that theminimum punishment was years. And when they were askedwhat they thought minimum punishment was, they said years, life. One person said that he thought the deathpenalty was the minimum -- minimum -- punishment.For the whites, white jurors were questioned. Two -- only two were not told that it was years inadvance. Now, they say that's not fair because you onlyneed to compare those jurors who had expressed hesitationabout the death penalty because that was our factor. Andthey identify in their brief white jurors and black th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC jurors who expressed hesitation. Well, two things. Okay, we'll use your numbers. That means that of the black jurors who expressedhesitation, were given this trick questioning and --QUESTION: What was the -- what was the purposeof the prosecution in asking about what they thought theminimum penalty --MR. WAXMAN: Under Texas -- Mr. Chief Justice,under Texas law, that is grounds for disqualification forcause and the prosecution did seek --QUESTION: What is -- what is --MR. WAXMAN: The inability to impose the minimumpunishment -- to consider the minimum punishment that thelaw allows. And they did try and strike two black jurorsfor inability to impose minimum punishment, however oddthat seems given the role of the prosecution in a case.They say there were of each and even taking-- hesitant jurors, and even taking their numbers at --at their word, that means, nonetheless, that a blackhesitant juror was three-and-a-half times more likely thana white to be struck. And it doesn't account for the factthat their white jurors wildly understates the numberof white jurors who expressed hesitation about the deathpenalty. It doesn't even include a white juror that theystruck for cause for inability to impose the death th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC penalty, Mr. Sohner. And there are at least or otherjurors that we identify in our papers that are not intheir list of . So even if you take their universe atits will, blacks were three-and-a-half times more likelyto be tricked by this minimum punishment ploy than whites.Now, on the graphic script about the deathpenalty, they said, you bet, there were some people thatwe went through all the gory details of how executionoccurs because we were trying to get those people off thejury because they were hesitant about the death penalty,but we did it with hesitant white jurors and we did itwith hesitant black jurors. Let's look at their numbers. Eight of the African American jurors were given the graphic script, percent. Three of the white jurors were given thegraphic script. QUESTION: But might it not be a justificationthere that more black jurors showed hesitancy about thedeath penalty than the white jurors? MR. WAXMAN: Well, it might -- it might be, butif couldn't be on this record because there were only black jurors. So out of the whole -- I'm using the entireuniverse of everyone who was questioned. Let's then go to their explanation. They say itonly applied to jurors who expressed hesitation about the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC death penalty. Let's just look at that universe. Therewas of -- there were of each. Okay. That meansthat of the black jurors that they say expressedhesitation were given this graphic script, and of the white jurors that say expressed hesitation, were giventhis. And that to us is evidence of conduct that occurredduring voir dire that admits of only a racial explanationjust as their conduct of the jury shuffle, which is aubiquitous and unique Texas practice that exists only inthe State of Texas. And we go through in our brief -- perhaps in asnot as much detail as -- as would be appropriate but,nonetheless, given the page limits -- and show that theState on at least three occasions used the -- itsprerogative to shuffle the jury for the obvious purpose ofmoving African American jurors who were in the front ofthe venire where they would be questioned to the back ofthe venire each week where they would not. And here it's important to understand somethingabout the procedure in this case. There was a differentvenire called every week. Jury selection extended over weeks. Each week either or new venire members werebrought into the courtroom, and they were seated in order. And as soon as they sat down, the record reflects, thejudge asked the State first and then the defense whether th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC they wanted to, quote, shuffle the jury.QUESTION: What does that mean?QUESTION: What does it mean?QUESTION: Would you tell us? MR. WAXMAN: I will try to tell you and I wouldrespectfully refer you, in case I fail, to the Texas BarJournal article that we cited in our reply brief by aprofessor at, I think, the University of Houston whichexplains this practice. But in Texas, jurors of course are -- veniresare required to be chosen randomly, but there has alwaysbeen a practice -- and it's now codified by statute --that allows the -- the lawyers in the case -- this is incivil and criminal cases -- to look at the venire as it'sarrayed in order and based on what Judge Holcomb explainedfor the Texas Court of Criminal Appeals, based on, quote,visual preference, because they haven't questioned thesejurors at all, the State and then the defense can say wewant to reshuffle the order. We don't like the order. And it is well understood in Texas that the principalreason for doing that is race and gender. QUESTION: What are the consequences of, quote,reshuffling the order? MR. WAXMAN: What happens is you take the -- thejuror cards and it's either done in the central jury room th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC or in the courtroom, and they are shuffled either by theclerk shuffling the way you would shuffle a deck or, inthis case, they were apparently, according to the record,put into a metal basket and the lawyer would sort of runhis hands around and they'd pick them out, and they wouldthen be in a new order. And after the State exercised itsshuffle or declined to exercise its shuffle, the defensecould choose whether to shuffle or not.QUESTION: Are the jurors actually then reseatedor are they just called in --MR. WAXMAN: No. They are reseated so that --QUESTION: Everybody gets up and moves and theback people get in the front, the front people get in theback.MR. WAXMAN: Indeed. Indeed, and it can be donenot once, but twice. And it's particularly critical herebecause what the judge --QUESTION: What's the consequence? I --MR. WAXMAN: Here's the -- here's theconsequence. The way the jury was picked here, theyquestioned -- they questioned between and -- generallybetween and . One week they got to jurors becausethey were doing individual voir dire. And so if you werenot in the first out of the or certainly in thefirst out of the , you weren't going to be questioned th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC at all. In fact, the judge told them at the outset, thatif they were -- when the order was finally set, if theywere in the last two rows, they could just go home thatday and never come back. And so the consequence of shuffling in this casewasn't the consequence you'd have if you had jurorspicked -- this is a capital case. We're going to ask allof you -- all of you -- questions, and it's just not thatconsequential what order you're in. But here the ordermeant everything. If you could get -- if the -- if theprosecution could get the black jurors out of the first or and into the back, they wouldn't have to worry aboutthe disparate questioning or exercising peremptorychallenges. And the -- the record in this case I think --it doesn't involve an admission but it is very, verystrong evidence. I -- I just want to say, before sitting down forrebuttal, a point that may be obvious, but it issurpassingly important for this Court to decide the meritsof the Batson challenge. There are many areas in the lawin which -- in which this Court delineates the contours ofconstitutional doctrine by demonstrating what result agiven set of facts yields. And so too Batson's abstractrules, its doctrines about the burden of proof and thequantum of proof, can also only be demonstrated and th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC meaningfully elucidated by a model. This is the kind ofarea like voluntariness, ineffective assistance ofcounsel, First Amendment actual malice in which this Courtcan and, I submit, under (d)() must model a case for theState courts and the lower Federal courts to show whatquantum of evidence is sufficient to require a conclusionthat a trial court's acceptance of a prosecutor asBatson's avowed reasons are objectively unreasonable.And I'll please reserve the balance of my time.QUESTION: Very well, Mr. Waxman. Ms. Bunn, we'll hear from you.ORAL ARGUMENT OF GENA A. BUNNON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTMS. BUNN: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it pleasethe Court:Prosecutors in this case exercised theirperemptory challenges to remove prospective jurors whomthey believed were biased against the State, a beliefbased not on stereotypical assumptions but on the viewsactually expressed by these jurors during voir dire.The trial judge, who observed firsthand theentire voir dire process, credited the prosecutors' race-neutral, case-related reasons for the strikes. Thejudge's findings of no purposeful discrimination are fullysupported by the record and they are entitled to deference th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC in this Court.QUESTION: Suppose you have a case in which jurors are excused because of their expressed views on thedeath penalty, excused by the State. Five of those jurorsare white and five of those jurors are black. But withthe five black jurors, the questioning was qualitativelyand quantitatively different. It went on much longer withmuch more searching, a different script. What resultthen?MS. BUNN: Well, Your Honor, I would say that iscircumstantial evidence of some kind of disparatetreatment. If those are the facts, if these jurors had --had expressed very similar or equivalent views on thedeath penalty in their juror questionnaires and then weretreated differently by the prosecutors, that would becircumstantial evidence of disparate treatment. It isevidence that is not in existence in this case, however.First, petitioner's attempts to make comparisonswith white jurors are not supported by the record. Theydo not have equivalent views, and in any event, to theextent that disparate questioning happened, it wascertainly based on the -- the -- either in the case of thegraphic script questioning based on the jurors' responsesto questions on the questionnaires or in the case of theminimum punishment question -- questioning on a th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC combination of the responses in the questionnaires and theresponses to questioning in the voir dire. So that wouldbe circumstantial evidence, but it is not present in thiscase. QUESTION: But may I ask on that -- thatquestion that if the different script was based on concernabout the person's attitude toward the death penalty,would it not be true, because the script is -- comes veryearly in the examination, that the doubt about the deathpenalty must either have been shown in the writtenresponse questionnaire or something said right before thatscript took -- took place? MS. BUNN: Yes, Your Honor, that's true andthat's supported by the record in this case. QUESTION: You think it is, yes.MS. BUNN: Yes, Your Honor. Every prospectivejuror who was questioned -- with -- with the exception ofone white juror, every juror questioned in -- with thegraphic script at the outset of the questioning hadexpressed some level of opposition to the death penalty intheir juror questionnaire. QUESTION: Ms. Bunn, how do you define --QUESTION: Now, the one -- may I just followwith one question? Now, the one juror who said there werefour categories of death penalty and he said he was th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC somewhere between one and two, would that have beensufficient to justify that kind of script?MS. BUNN: Well, perhaps following up with it. Now, that particular juror -- I believe you're referringto Edwin Rand -- had no -- there was no indication on hisquestionnaire of opposition to the death penalty. That'swhy the prosecutor did not lead off with the graphicscript for Mr. Rand. However, after responses like thatand then the response of Mr. Rand that he didn't know ifhe could -- maybe today he could impose the death penalty,but tomorrow maybe he couldn't, after that kind ofquestioning, then the prosecutor did lead up further alongin the examination with a semi-graphic script, butcertainly not at the outset. QUESTION: Thank you. QUESTION: There is -- I think on your numbersthere were white venire members and black whoexpressed, on the questionnaire, hesitancy about the deathpenalty. But of those, there were only two of the whitejurors who got the graphic script and there were I thinkeight of the blacks.MS. BUNN: Well, Your Honor, first off, that'snot -- that's not precisely true according to the record. We did list in a footnote white jurors who had, at somepoint, expressed hesitancy about the death penalty. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC However, unfortunately, we do not in a sense have acomplete record because the juror questionnaires of thewhite jurors are not in the record in this case. Defensecounsel at trial only presented -- offered into the recordthe juror questionnaires of the African American jurors.QUESTION: But you did say that there were thatnumber --MS. BUNN: Who at some point --QUESTION: -- of the whites who expressedhesitancy.MS. BUNN: Yes, Justice Ginsburg. Who at somepoint in their examination expressed hesitancy about thedeath penalty. But we don't know of those jurors who hadexpressed hesitation about the death penalty in theirinitial questionnaire. By example --QUESTION: Well, which is something you couldhave put in I presume, the State could have put in, if --if it had thought it had relevant evidence at that point,and it didn't. So don't we have to, in effect, make ourjudgment based on the figures that Justice Ginsburg hasjust mentioned? MS. BUNN: Well, Your Honor, the -- for onething, defense counsel never raised a disparatequestioning argument before the trial judge, and that'swhere the State would have put that -- that evidence in. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC And if -- if defense counsel felt like there were adisparate questioning argument, it would have been defensecounsel, given that he had the burden --QUESTION: The graphic script and the minimumpunishment. That never came up before the trial judge?MS. BUNN: The defense counsel did not argue atall the issue of -- of disparate questioning. The State-- the prosecution brought it up as a factor to considerand -- and argued, as we have argued here, that the Statecertainly did use different lines of questioning fromdifferent jurors based on their views but not on race.QUESTION: But if the -- if the prosecutionbrought it up, it's -- I assume it's there for us to getinto it, and we've got to get into it on the record thatwas made. And if the prosecution didn't make a furtherrecord on that, it's -- it's, it seems to me, appropriatefor us to -- to look into the issue on the record that wehave. And if we do, we come back to Justice Ginsburg'snumbers. MS. BUNN: Well, again, Your Honor, the -- therecord in this case doesn't support those numbers alsobecause we can look to an -- as analogy to the AfricanAmerican jurors, several of whom did not expresshesitation about the death penalty in their initial jurorquestionnaire but who came back later on in their th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC examinations and did make comments --QUESTION: All right. But those --QUESTION: I'm getting confused. I thought thenumbers we were talking about were your numbers, ofeach.MS. BUNN: They were -- they were numbers thatwe set forth in talking about -- in discussing thedisparate questioning, jurors -- white jurors who had atsome point expressed hesitancy about the death penalty. However, to infer from those numbers that it was thatuniverse of jurors who the -- who the prosecutors had toconsider their juror questionnaires in determining whetherat the outset to -- to use the graphic script, that is not-- that is not how we intended the footnote.QUESTION: I see. You mean some of thatreservation of the death penalty may come later in the --in the questioning. MS. BUNN: Yes, Your Honor. QUESTION: Well, why couldn't the prosecutorhave then used the graphic script, or it would have beentoo late?MS. BUNN: Well, in some instances theprosecutor did both with African American and whitejurors, jurors who initially in their juror questionnairesdid not indicate any opposition to the death penalty, but th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC into their question -- into their voir dire examinationdid, and there are instances where the prosecutor did gointo the graphic script later on in the examination. Butthat is not what the petitioner is relying on here. He --QUESTION: Why --QUESTION: Isn't the fact that we are havingthis colloquy with you about the significance of thenumbers a pretty good argument for the proposition that atleast reasonable jurists might disagree about thesignificance of it, and therefore there should have been a-- a certificate of appeal issued here? MS. BUNN: Well, Your Honor, given the level ofdeference that the trial judge's findings were entitled toin this case, we do not think that it -- it presents thatkind of case regardless of the --QUESTION: Well, it seems to me your argument on-- I'm not talking now about the -- the ultimateresolution of it which Mr. Waxman addressed. I'm justaddressing the -- kind of the threshold question ofwhether there should have been a COA here. And it soundsto me as though your argument is saying that unless thedefense has got just a slam dunk Batson argument at theend of the day, there shouldn't be a COA, which -- whichperhaps reflects what the -- the court below was doingwhen it seemed to -- to say that there wasn't going to be th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC a COA because at the end of the day, the -- the Batsonclaim was not meritorious.MS. BUNN: Well, Your Honor, it is our positionthat the court -- the court below correctly determinedthat no COA should issue in this case given the multiplelevels of deference that the trial judge's findings wereentitled to, not only the Hernandez standard --QUESTION: But isn't -- isn't the degree ofdeference and the significance of that degree of deferencewith respect to specific claims something that is worthyof being determined in the appellate process rather thansomething that ought to be determined at the thresholdbefore the appellate argument has even been made?MS. BUNN: Petitioner has -- has never arguedthat he was not able to make any level of detailedargument in this case in the court below.QUESTION: Well, regardless of what thepetitioner may have said, what's the answer to myquestion? I mean, aren't you -- aren't we making out apretty good case again by our colloquy here for the factthat there was something for the court of appeals toconsider here on the -- on the -- the reasonabledisagreement among jurists standard?MS. BUNN: If the issue were looked at de novo,the issue alone of Batson, then yes, it presents th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC compelling evidence both ways. However, in -- viewed tothe scheme of (d), it is, as you referred to, a slamdunk case. And petitioner did not meet the COA burden,and that is -- our position is that the court -- courtbelow correctly denied COA given the deference entitled --that -- that the trial judge's findings were entitled toin this case.And getting back to the trial judge's findings,just a few things that we disagree with the petitionerabout in characterizing the trial judge's handling of thiscase. First, the fact that technically the Batsonhearing was conducted years after the trial, that istrue. However, when you look at the record of voir direin this case, though it was pre-Batson, when defensecounsel raised an objection to the strike of an AfricanAmerican juror, the prosecution came forward with hisrace-neutral reasons immediately, contemporaneous --QUESTION: But that's not true in every case.MS. BUNN: Every case where defense counselobjected to the strike of that particular juror. And thatis true with every juror challenged here with theexception of Mr. Joe Warren. QUESTION: Well, for example, the -- JoeWarren's case was most interesting to me because the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC prosecutor just exercised the peremptory without anyexplanation whatsoever. And then the judge made quite aspeech to the juror about how he had been a very finejuror, and that was sort of the end of it. And then lateron, we find out that he was -- he was not a very finejuror.MS. BUNN: Again, Your Honor, the -- the trialjudge -- the trial judge's comments to the juror don't --certainly don't vitiate the prosecutor's reasons forstriking him. But nonetheless, defense counsel --QUESTION: The prosecutor did not give a reasonfor striking that juror.MS. BUNN: Defense counsel didn't object to thestriking -- the prosecutor's striking of that juror. Certainly there was nothing even --QUESTION: Well, as I understand it, the defensecounsel had a kind of a running objection and made clearin each record when a black juror was stricken. Therecord -- he made it -- that be made part of the record. But he didn't object on a juror-by-juror basis. He didn'thave any standing to do that. MS. BUNN: He objected --QUESTION: Because this was a Swain hearingrather than a Batson hearing at the time. MS. BUNN: That is true. But he did in this th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC case -- defense counsel did in this case object to thestriking of every single African American juror with theexception of Joe Warren and Paul Bailey. So he was notusing a running objection kind of conduct. He -- hespecifically objected to of the African Americanjurors struck. And for whatever reason, he did not objectto the prosecutor striking Joe Warren. While this doesn'tgive rise to a procedural default, it could, in fact, bean indication that defense counsel thought there werelegitimate reasons for the prosecutor's strike of JoeWarren. QUESTION: You were -- you were on the -- thetheme of saying that the hearing was conducted properly years later, and I don't want to get you off of -- ofthat. But at -- at some point just answer this question,and maybe it's consistent with the two -- the hearingyou're about to describe. Mr. Waxman told us -- and -- and he's fair aboutthese things -- that -- that you've walked away fromnumber , that there was no disparate prosecutorialexamination. But you started your argument by -- byindicating that the answers were -- were sufficient to --to support that. Are you saying that there was disparateexamination but that it was justified? MS. BUNN: Yes, Your Honor, that's what we're th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC saying, and that is --QUESTION: Because of the answers that they gaveon the questionnaire and -- and answers that they gavejust before the script was used.MS. BUNN: Yes, Your Honor. It's the State'sposition now --QUESTION: So you would say then that youhaven't walked away from finding number ?MS. BUNN: No, Your Honor, we have not. It --it's the State's position now. It was the State'sposition at the time of the Batson hearing that anydisparate questioning was a legitimate means to deal withjurors who had expressed different views on differentissues but was not based on race. And that is consistentwith the trial judge's finding.QUESTION: So you think that the trial judge,therefore, considered the issue of disparate questioning. MS. BUNN: Yes, Your Honor. QUESTION: All right. Now, then the questionis, if they considered it, did he reach a reasonableconclusion? What about Justice Ginsburg's mentioning therewere at least eight white jurors who also expressedreservations who were not given this graphic descriptionof what the death penalty involves, but instead were just th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC asked could you find against a person if that meant thedeath penalty? What about those eight people? MS. BUNN: Well, again, disparate questioning,like many other pieces of evidence that petitioner isrelying on in this case, are circumstantial evidence of --of discriminatory motive or can be in a given case. Assuming that there -- that there was some level of -- ofdisparateness, even within those jurors who had expressedviews about the death penalty --QUESTION: No. The particular thing is what sheasked and you say right now, I think correctly, that thetrial judge did consider disparate questioning. You alsoagree that I guess it was -- the number was approximately of the black jurors who expressed doubts about thedeath penalty were asked this very graphic question, couldyou find a person guilty and give him the death penaltywhere that meant taking him in the gurney, et cetera. Only two white jurors were asked that question. Yet, Itake it that you concede that there were at least eightother white jurors who also expressed doubts about thedeath penalty who were not asked that question. MS. BUNN: Well, I do not concede that to theextent that it is identifying those jurors as being jurorswho expressed doubts about the death penalty in theirjuror questionnaires, and that is the information that the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC prosecutor had to go by. QUESTION: All right. So you say there weren'teight such people. Fine. MS. BUNN: Yes. QUESTION: Okay. That's your answer. MS. BUNN: Yes, Your Honor. QUESTION: And I have another question which Ithink is to me more important, which is that theseambiguous answers, a difficult question about what themotive was of the prosecutor in peremptorily striking whenhe has a legitimate reason, to decide whether it'slegitimate or not, I would have thought history, in termsof how the county has behaved in general, would be highlyrelevant to characterize and decide a difficult questionlike that. But on page of this record, the magistratemakes pretty clear that he thought history was notrelevant in reviewing that third part of Batson, reviewingwhat the State did. And the State court judge himself said on page I guess whether or not I will give it -- I mean suchevidence -- any weight is another question, and neverreferred to it again.So in respect to that, what is your view?MS. BUNN: The State's view is that while the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Federal magistrate -- first I'll address the Federalmagistrate's handling of the issue. It is the State'sposition that the Federal magistrate did err in itselucidation of the standard of -- its holding basicallythat historical evidence is irrelevant at Batson's thirdstep. However, certainly an error by a Federal magistratedoes not entitle a petitioner to habeas corpus relief. And -- and any error as well was cured when the FifthCircuit considered independently all of the evidence thatpetitioner had presented in his petition. Moving on to the trial judge, however, there isnothing in the record --QUESTION: Well, but -- but why -- why isn'tthis -- you're candid to say that you may have erred onthis one regard, but why -- why isn't this a -- a verysignificant fact to which we must give great weight,especially you indicated the evidence was circumstantial. A little bit odd for a prosecutor to -- to say thatcircumstantial evidence isn't important. This is all wehave in -- in these cases when we're trying to infermotive, and best evidence is often circumstantial. Andwhy isn't the historical evidence here overwhelmingcircumstantial evidence and good evidence? MS. BUNN: Justice Kennedy, it is evidence. Itis circumstantial evidence. But the trial judge's inquiry th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC and certainly an appellate court's inquiry must begin,must key in on the reasons that the prosecutors struckthese jurors and the record in this case. And in thiscase, prosecutors struck prospective jurors forlegitimate, case-related, race-neutral reasons. That'swhere the trial judge's analysis began and ended, and itoverruled the State's objections to the pattern andpractice evidence on relevancy grounds.QUESTION: Ms. Bunn, if -- if it begins and endswith the prosecutor's neutral reasons, then you wouldnever have a successful Batson challenge because theprosecutor could always give a neutral reason. And thequestion that is troubling me is what in the end did thecourt consider and look -- and the -- and the State trialcourt said, well, he would take that so-called Swainevidence for what it was worth. He never told us. Henever said how he resolved the question. And the -- thefact finding seemed to be going at these jurors, the blackjurors, against whom peremptories were exercised, one byone and saying as to each one, there was a neutral reasongiven and that's it. We don't know how anything elsefigured in this package. We don't know whether the judgesaid, well, I'll take it -- take the Swain evidence forwhat it's worth -- did he say he thought it was worthless? He doesn't tell us. We don't -- we just can't tell from th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC this record what went on at that stage three.MS. BUNN: Well, respectfully I disagree. Thetrial judge found the prosecutor's reasons to be credible,and in making that credibility determination and havingoverruled the State's objections to this pattern andpractice evidence and stating candidly that he didn't knowwhat weight he was going to give it, given that while itis circumstantial evidence, he's got a -- he's got arecord here where the prosecutor's reasons are supported.QUESTION: He --QUESTION: Well, but the credibility finding,which is number , doesn't prevent us and -- and reallyshouldn't prevent a court from determining whether thatcredibility finding has a foundation. And if you havethis very persuasive historical evidence, the differentscript, that all bears on whether the credibility findingcan -- can withstand scrutiny. You can't just say, well,he concluded credibility and that's always for the trialjudge and then walk away or, as Justice Ginsburg said,you'll never have a Batson challenge. MS. BUNN: We are not --QUESTION: Absent a finding that the -- theprosecutor is dissembling based on demeanor.MS. BUNN: We are certainly not arguing that a-- a Batson finding from a trial judge is completely th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC insulated from appellate review. However, in a case suchas this where the reasons credited by the trial judge aresupported by the record, there -- there is no basis tooverrule the trial judge's credibility determination.QUESTION: Well, but that's not true as tofinding , because he didn't find there was no -- therewas justification for disparate questioning. He foundthere was no disparate questioning. And the record isperfectly clear that there was disparate questioning. MS. BUNN: However, in the context of the Batsonhearing that he was resolving, that finding is reasonablyunderstood as a finding that there was no disparatequestioning based on race. QUESTION: But if read literally, it's -- ifread literally, it's clearly incorrect. And of course, as to the findings oncredibility, there's no finding as to any particularjuror. He just made a -- a gross finding that everybody-- I believe everything the prosecutor said. Basicallythat's what he found. MS. BUNN: The finding regarding disparatequestioning I believe is phrased as disparate questioningof the challenged jurors. So given that, I would saythat, yes, that supports the interpretation certainly thatit was made within the context of the Batson challenge and th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC that the finding was limited to based on race. There wasno disparate questioning based on race. QUESTION: May -- may I ask one question aboutthe procedure? Were the juror information cards that havethe notations about sex and -- and race noted on it --when do you think those notations were made? MS. BUNN: I would --QUESTION: Because I find it significant thereare no notations or very few as to attitude toward thedeath penalty, which is your -- your key to everything. There doesn't seem to be any card on which the prosecutorsaid soft on death or hard on death or anything like that.MS. BUNN: I believe that those sorts ofnotations were made on the juror questionnaires ratherthan the juror information cards. And I -- I would agreewith Mr. Waxman that the record does indicate that thosenotations were made toward the beginning of the process,prior to any individual questioning. QUESTION: So that it would be fair to inferthat the prosecutor on each juror noted race and sex, butdid not note attitude toward death penalty.MS. BUNN: Not on the juror -- the jurorinformation cards. That sort of --QUESTION: Which -- which were cards preparedbefore the voir dire examination began. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MS. BUNN: That -- that was all they had to goon during the preliminary phases. When they received the-- after the -- the panel was finally seated, when thejurors were given the questionnaires, then that's what theparties worked from in making more notes in determiningwhich to challenge for cause and which to strike. So, again, what can be inferred from that I -- Ithink is -- really, it's -- it's -- there's just not awhole lot --QUESTION: Well, if --QUESTION: Well, one thing that's clear is theydid note the race of every juror before they questionedthem. That much is clear.MS. BUNN: Yes, Your Honor. QUESTION: All right. So we have -- in essence,we still have a group of three busy judges who arereviewing a magistrate reviewing a record. The record iscontroversial at best. The magistrate uses the wrongstandard concededly. And they don't even issue acertificate of appealability. Well, shouldn't they atleast have done that? MS. BUNN: Well, Your Honor, again it is ourposition that on this record a certificate ofappealability was not warranted. Again, given themultiple levels of deference, the trial judge's clear th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC findings in this case, and the fact that they aresupported by the record. And again --QUESTION: But there's some absences in thefinding, and let me go back to the -- the judge saying,I'll reserve the question whether to give that pattern andpractice evidence any weight. And then we haven't got aclue how he resolved that question. MS. BUNN: Well, again --QUESTION: Or if he ever even came back to it.MS. BUNN: Yes, Your Honor. However, it wasclearly before the trial judge. The -- there's nothing inthe record to indicate that the trial judge did notconsider the evidence, nothing besides the mere absence --QUESTION: But he -- he said he was going todecide whether he was going to give it any weight. Maybehe made a decision that he shouldn't give it any weight,and maybe that was wrong or right. But we just don'tknow.MS. BUNN: Perhaps he did, but as the factfinder, that was his prerogative, and the -- the record inthis case -- again, there's nothing to indicate that hedidn't consider the evidence. It was before him and hisfindings, however, properly do focus on the record in thiscase, the reasons that the prosecutor came forward with,and were credited by the trial judge. And again, the -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC the record in this case clearly supports those -- thosefindings. And these jurors were jurors who the State --both -- both white jurors and African American jurors whothe State struck were jurors who had expressed views thatthe State was uncomfortable with. And again, to get a feel for what theprosecutor's job was in this case, they -- they looked atultimately jurors, individually questioned jurors,and the prosecutor had to view that -- to view thosejurors as not even just looking at do you believe in thedeath penalty, yes or no, but where does this particularjuror fall in the spectrum. How likely are they to beable to consider the full range of punishment in a capitalmurder case? That was what the prosecutor was chargedwith in this case. And if you look at the record in this case, itsupports the trial -- the prosecutor's reasons for thelegitimate strikes in this case. They were supported bythe record. They were case-related. And they were simplynot based on race. There is ample support for the trialjudge's findings and simply no basis to -- to overrulethose findings.Unless there are any more questions. QUESTION: Thank you, Ms. Bunn. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Mr. Waxman, you have minutes remaining.REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF SETH P. WAXMANON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERMR. WAXMAN: Thank you. I just have six shortrebuttal points to correct the record. The -- while the graphic script was given at thebeginning of the voir dire and therefore based only on thequestionnaires, the minimum punishment ploy -- that is,trying to trick jurors about minimum punishment -- wasdone at the very end, after they had all of the evidence. And therefore, the relevant universe of whites whoexpressed hesitation is not , as the State says, but . And in any event, even with , they are three-and-a-halftimes as likely. With -- also, we did -- the trial -- the defenselawyers in this case objected over and over and over againto trying to trick these black jurors by asking them whatminimum punishment they would give without expressing thenumber. The voir dire is replete with this. With respect to the graphic script, which didcome at the beginning, well, the State now says, well, wedon't have the questionnaires for all the people, so wedon't really know how many there were. We know that weused the graphic script with three of them. Okay. Thethree that they used that they identified are jurors , th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , and . Two were excused by agreement, and one,number , was seated. But we do know what the juror questionnaireswere -- I'm just doing a -- sort of a quick list on theback of my note card here -- for Mr. Vickery, Ms. Mazza,Mr. Gutierrez, Mr. Hearn, and Mr. Duke. Mazza, who is --who features prominently here and who is not included intheir , said in her questionnaire, it depends on thecrime. QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. --MR. WAXMAN: It is that --CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: Thank you, Mr. Waxman.The case is submitted. (Whereupon, at : p.m., the case in theabove-entitled matter was submitted.) th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC 