 IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XKAY BARNES, ETC., ET AL., Petitioners ::v. : No. -JEFFREY GORMAN. :- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XWashington, D.C.Tuesday, April , The above-entitled matter came on for oralargument before the Supreme Court of the United States at: a.m.APPEARANCES:LAWRENCE S. ROBBINS, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf ofthe Petitioners.GREGORY G. GARRE, ESQ., Assistant to the SolicitorGeneral, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; onbehalf of the United States, as amicus curiae,supporting the Petitioners. SCOTT L. NELSON, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf of theRespondent. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC C O N T E N T SORAL ARGUMENT OF LAWRENCE S. ROBBINS, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioners GREGORY G. GARRE, ESQ., On behalf of the United States, as amicus curiae, supporting the Petitioners SCOTT L. NELSON, ESQ.On behalf of the Respondent REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OFLAWRENCE S. ROBBINS, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioners PAGE th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC P R O C E E D I N G S(: a.m.)CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: We'll hear argumentnext in No. -, Kay Barnes v. Jeffrey Gorman.Mr. Robbins.ORAL ARGUMENT OF LAWRENCE S. ROBBINSON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERSMR. ROBBINS: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice, andmay it please the Court:The Eighth Circuit held in this case that aprivate plaintiff may obtain punitive damages in an actionbrought against municipal government defendants undersection of the Rehabilitation Act of and title IIof the Americans with Disabilities Act. Although the court of appeals identifiedsubstantial evidence in the legislative record thatCongress never intended this result, it thought that thisCourt's decision in Franklin against Gwinnett CountyPublic Schools left it little or no choice in the matter. As the Eighth Circuit read Franklin, once a cause ofaction has been created or inferred, it presumptivelycarries with it all common law remedies, includingpunitive damages, unless Congress has specifically saidotherwise.QUESTION: Mr. Robbins, did any -- did the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC petitioners raise the Newport case at any time below?MR. ROBBINS: No. QUESTION: Why not? MR. ROBBINS: The -- the party --QUESTION: I mean, it looks like the mostobvious source of law on this topic. What's going onhere?MR. ROBBINS: In the lower court, my client tookthe position that it was, in fact, an arm of the State,not an arm of the municipal government. For variousfactors -- it cited various factors that in its viewwarranted an Eleventh Amendment immunity, not a City ofNewport immunity. The court of appeals, in the decisionbeing reviewed before this Court today, rejected thatargument. We have not separately sought certiorari onthat decision.But I -- I do want to add on that point, JusticeO'Connor, that in our view it would be a mistake to takerespondent's suggestion that because my client took thatposition in the lower court, that this Court shouldtherefore turn a blind eye to the City of Newportdoctrine. It seems to us that it's quite analogous to asituation in which a litigant, for example, decided toargue only legislative history in the lower court and thenbefore this Court -- and then someone said, well, you're th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC therefore constrained not to look at the words of thestatute. That seems --QUESTION: It doesn't change the issue, I takeit.MR. ROBBINS: It does not change the issue. Theposition the client took below was always that punitivedamages are unwarranted for a variety of reasons,including a reason that we are now urging by virtue of theclient having lost the Eleventh Amendment immunity issuebelow. QUESTION: Was there a reason?QUESTION: And I suppose it's not like animmunity from suit that can be waived. It's -- we use theterm immunity, but it's not that sort of immunity. MR. ROBBINS: Exactly. It -- it is exactly thesense in which it was used in City of Newport as abackground principle of law that Congress is assumed tohave taken into consideration in enacting the actual test. And we --QUESTION: Doesn't the Eighth Circuit allow youto argue in the alternative? I mean, you couldn't havesaid we have Eleventh Amendment immunity and -- and if wedon't, we're a municipality, and therefore Newportapplies. You could have done that, I suppose. MR. ROBBINS: I -- I think counsel could have th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC taken that measure. They didn't, but I don't think thatit -- that that amounts to a waiver. QUESTION: What are we supposed to do then? Because it seems to me that you're arguing there are twopossibilities. One possibility is no one gets punitivedamages no matter who he sues, and the second is that,anyway, a person who sues a municipality can't getpunitive damages. Your second argument may be a lotstronger than the first. So, am I supposed to go to thesecond argument that nobody has argued in the courts belowat all, bypassing them, or am I supposed to go to thefirst argument which has enormous implications well beyondthis case? MR. ROBBINS: Well, I think the answer, JusticeBreyer, is that we have urged both arguments. I think we-- we could prevail on the basis of either presumption.I -- I would, however, tell you why I think theCourt ought to address the broader issue and that isbecause, given the construction of Franklin that theEighth Circuit took in this case, there is no good reasonto believe that were City of Newport called to theirattention, they would have come out any differently. TheEighth Circuit took Franklin to say that unless -- giventhat there's a cause of action, whether explicit --whether express or implied, that must necessarily carry th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC with it all common law remedies unless Congress has saidotherwise, which it rarely does --QUESTION: Well, the Eighth Circuit saidappropriate remedies. So, don't we have to look at whatappropriate means in this context?MR. ROBBINS: Well, I think that -- that's thelanguage from Franklin.QUESTION: Yes. MR. ROBBINS: And we think Franklin is properlyconfined to compensatory remedies for the reasons we'vesaid in the brief. The Eighth Circuit's view ofappropriate, however, Your Honor, was that it issynonymous with whatever the common law has traditionallymade available by virtue of State law, by virtue ofFederal law, by virtue of the entire corpus of law. Andwhatever you can find on the books is, therefore,appropriate within the meaning of Franklin, as the EighthCircuit saw it, and that, Justice Breyer, to return toyour question, is a doctrine of enormous capacity. QUESTION: Mr. Robbins, I don't understand whyyou say if this Court says Newport or Fact Concepts,whatever you want to call it -- it says, a municipality isimmune. Period. That takes care of your case, and if theCourt -- this Court were to say, Eighth Circuit, youoverlooked the fact that municipalities are immune and th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC therefore in -- in this case you are wrong, and wereverse, now, that takes care of your client. Right?MR. ROBBINS: Well, I -- I think it does. If --QUESTION: And why should we in your case, wherethere is a clear ground, not decide it on that basis? Whyshould we go to the next case that doesn't involve amunicipality?MR. ROBBINS: Let me say two things with respectto that, Justice Ginsburg. First of all, the last thing Iwant to do is talk the Court out of ruling for my clienton any ground. (Laughter.) MR. ROBBINS: So, if the Court believes City ofNewport is sufficient -- and we think it's quite powerful-- we'll certainly be glad of that result. But let me saytwo more things about it. The first is even City of Newport requireslooking to the next step and asking, okay, that's thepresumption. It's a strong presumption. Is therespecific evidence in the statute that overcomes it? Forall the reasons we've said in the brief and I'd be glad toturn to, the evidence in this statute is quiteextraordinarily compelling that, to the contrary, punitivedamages were foreclosed. Second, I -- I wish I could be as confident as th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC the Court's -- as Your Honor's question suggests, thatwere this case to return to the Eighth Circuit withnothing but a ruling about City of Newport, you know, inits sails, that the Eighth Circuit would take that mandateand take it and -- and come out differently. I'm notquite so confident about that because of the sweep of howthey read Franklin.QUESTION: If the Court --QUESTION: We would -- the -- the broaderposition would be -- would be taking the case on the samebasis that the Eighth Circuit decided it. Right? On thebroader ground.MR. ROBBINS: I think that's correct. QUESTION: And there -- this is not aconstitutional matter. MR. ROBBINS: No. QUESTION: So, the doctrine of -- of observingthe narrowest possible constitutional ground does notapply here. Right? MR. ROBBINS: No. Quite -- quite the contrary. The question presented is what do these statutes meanafter all. QUESTION: So, this would be an opportunity to-- to do what the Court is supposed to do, and that isclean up confusion below on the meaning of a statute, and th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC the broader confusion is certainly much -- much more worthclearing up than the narrower confusion.MR. ROBBINS: Right, and I might say one of thematters we've pointed to in the petition for certiorariis, in fact, that this misconstruction of Franklin is notconfined to this case, to this statute, and certainly tothe Eighth Circuit. It is a wide-ranging, I think, over-reading of what this Court said -- not just meant, butsaid -- in Franklin itself. And perhaps I might just turnbriefly to that initial question.It seems to us, for several reasons, the EighthCircuit has badly misunderstood what Franklin says. Itdoesn't cover punitive damages. That's the short of thematter. Punitive damages were, after all, not sought bythe plaintiff in Franklin, but more to the point, thepremise of Franklin against Gwinnett County was drawn fromBell against Hood and the cases that underlie Bell againstHood, and that is an explicitory, compensatory rationale. The idea in Bell was that courts have an authority --QUESTION: Explicitory? (Laughter.) MR. ROBBINS: I'm sorry? QUESTION: Did you say explicitory? MR. ROBBINS: Good heavens, I hope not. (Laughter.) th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: I like it though. It's good. (Laughter.) MR. ROBBINS: Well, what -- what I certainlymeant to say is that Bell and Hood stem from a line ofauthority that says that courts have the authority, theinherent authority I -- I had meant to say, when -- whencharged with the construction of a statute to make goodthe wrong done. And that is about as clear a statement ofa compensatory rationale as you could have. Franklin did not suggest that a plaintiff whohas been made whole, as Mr. Gorman was to the tune of $million in compensatory damages, including $, inpain and suffering, has a right inferable through astatute that speaks not a word to the matter, to anadditional presumption of punishment. QUESTION: Well, did the compensatory damages inthis case include damages for humiliation, or am I wrongabout that? MR. ROBBINS: I -- I do not -- I have not seenan indication that it included that. I --QUESTION: In -- in this -- is the juryinstructed in this jurisdiction that compensatory damagesinclude damages? Of course, pain and suffering, but isthat also humiliation? I thought humiliation was coveredas part of the compensatory award. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. ROBBINS: I -- we have included theinstruction, Justice Kennedy, at page of the jointappendix, and I do not find a specific reference to that. I'd be glad to see if I can --QUESTION: Well, I guess it -- it goes to themake-whole point. Assume a jurisdiction where humiliationis not part of the compensatory award, could the argumentbe made, well, in order to make the person whole, you mustgive punitive damages because it includes damages forhumiliation?MR. ROBBINS: Well, I guess I'd be inclined to-- to think about that in a case in which somebody hadargued that below or here.QUESTION: But it wouldn't achieve that.MR. ROBBINS: But -- but --QUESTION: It wouldn't achieve that. Would it,Mr. Robbins? I mean, you -- you would not tell the jury,you know -- you're telling the jury, punish this person ifyou think he deserves punishment. You're not telling thejury, by the way, humiliation damages are not available,and therefore give this fellow as -- as much humiliationdamages, calling them punitive damages, as --QUESTION: But I want you to assume -- and Ibelieve this is the law in many jurisdictions -- thatpunitive damages are given in part to ease the -- the -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC it's smart money in order to ease the -- the pain that theperson suffers, et cetera. MR. ROBBINS: Right. I -- I don't want toquarrel with the hypothetical, Justice Kennedy. It mayvery well be that pain and suffering already embraces thatconcept. In many jurisdictions, pain and suffering is notcompensable as a compensatory damages. And it may be thatin the jurisdictions to which Your Honor adverts, punitivedamages are used to supplement a compensatory regime thatfalls short of pain and suffering, which is not the casehere. This man received $, --QUESTION: I understand. MR. ROBBINS: -- for the category called painand suffering and he was made whole. And there's nosuggestion that he wasn't made whole.The suggestion is that my clients should bepunished, and that is something as to which the statuteprovides absolutely no --QUESTION: Well, that's true, but the statutedoesn't say specifically about whether to give aninjunction, about whether you could give a trademarkremedy. I mean, normally what the decisions have been ofthe Court under Franklin -- I'm simply focusing you ontheir main argument. Under Franklin, the courts decidethere either is an ordinary private right of action, et th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC cetera, or there isn't. And if there is, you take it asit is, ordinarily. And if there isn't, there's nothing.MR. ROBBINS: Well --QUESTION: Why should we divide up, in otherwords -- there's this amount of the common law action, butnot that amount. There's -- why -- how do we know that wehave the two-witness rule or the -- or the parol evidencerule? I mean, there are lots of controversial things incommon -- in common law actions --MR. ROBBINS: Yes. QUESTION: -- that private people can bring. So, why separate out from that whole package suddenlypunitive damages? That's --MR. ROBBINS: Precisely because this is not acommon law action. This is a Federal statute --QUESTION: All right. MR. ROBBINS: -- as to which --QUESTION: So, which one shall we separate out? Just punitives or what?MR. ROBBINS: Well, as to which Congress hasspoken. It has adopted title VI remedies that are quiterobust, which come with title VI regulations that areenormously detailed, freighted with due -- levels of dueprocess that are quite unusual. And yet, we propose tooverlay a punitive damages remedy that comes with none of th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC those protections. It would work an extraordinary anomalyto layer punitive damages on a regime like this. This isnot, after all, a question that is committed to the courtslike some of those doctrines. The parole evidence rulemay in some jurisdictions have originally been enacted ornot. But the fact is this is a statute, and Congressspoke rather clearly to what it -- it wanted the statuteto accomplish. And some of the things it expressly saidcannot live with the things that respondent proposes toimport into it. And let me just say one other thing, and Inoticed that my white light on, as -- I do want to reservesome time for rebuttal. This is also a Spending Clause statute, and Iknow this gets back to a -- a threshold issue that bothYour Honor and Justice Ginsburg suggested perhaps theCourt could pretermit. I think it would be a mistake,given that the task is to construe the statute, to ignorethe fact that it was enacted pursuant to a contractualregime in which punitive damages historically and for avariety of sensible reasons are especially inappropriate. And if there are no questions, I -- I would liketo reserve the balance of my time for rebuttal. QUESTION: Very well, Mr. Robbins. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Mr. Garre, we'll hear from you.ORAL ARGUMENT OF GREGORY G. GARREON BEHALF OF THE UNITED STATES,AS AMICUS CURIAE, SUPPORTING THE PETITIONERSMR. GARRE: The statutes at issue in this case,section of the Rehabilitation Act and title II of theADA, do not sanction the award of punitive damages whichare, by their definition, damages in excess of thatnecessary to make good any wrong done. Now, there are several -- both section andtitle II derive their remedies expressly from title VI ofthe Civil Rights Act of , which operates as acondition on the receipt of Federal financial assistance. And it seems to me that -- to us that there are severalfacets of the title VI statutory scheme which make itparticularly inappropriate to infer a punitive damagesremedy.The first is, is that title VI, although it'ssilent with respect to a compensatory remedy, expresslyprovides for punitive and regulatory measures in the eventthat the violation of its nondiscrimination provision. Inparticular, the statute provides for a termination ofFederal funding, which this Court has itself recognized isa very severe -- severe remedy that can have a powerfuldeterrent effect. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC In addition, the statute authorizesadministrative enforcement actions, actions that -- inwhich the regulatory agencies, who have responsibility forenforcing section and title II, can take remedialaction, order remedial action, short of fundingtermination. Now, the second aspect of title VI and title VIstatutory scheme it seems to us to be quite pertinent isthat punitive damages are themselves antithetical toSpending Clause legislation like title VI because theavailability of unbounded punitive damages awards canactually have the effect of diverting resources fromachieving the important objectives of the underlyingspending programs. QUESTION: Tell me. I just can't recall. Havewe held that punitive damages are available on the Bivensaction?MR. GARRE: We think the Court addressed that inpassing in the Carlson v. Green case, and we think thatthat -- the discussion of punitive damages in that case isproperly regarded as -- as dictum in that case. But --but --QUESTION: So, do -- do I infer from your --from your response that it is the position of theDepartment that punitive damages should not be awarded in th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Bivens cases? MR. GARRE: Yes, but there are two distinctionsbetween Bivens and this case. First, in the Bivens context, there aren'tstatutory penal and regulatory measures that can be usedlike funding termination or administrative enforcementactions to take deterrence measures when -- when needed todeter violations. And second, in the Bivens context, this Court isgiving effect to a constitutional tort that it alone hasrecognized. In -- in this context, the Court ispurporting to ascertain Congress's intent in enactingsection in title II.QUESTION: What about ? This Court has saidthat punitive damages are available. MR. GARRE: That -- that's correct, JusticeGinsburg. And -- and first of all, if I can make twopoints -- first, in that context, again, there is noexpress statutory penal or regulatory measures thatCongress created to provide deterrence as it did undertitle VI, the remedies at issue in this case. And secondly, what's important, we think, aboutthe Smith case, in which this Court recognized a punitivedamages remedy under section -- is that in that case,the Court didn't start with the presumption that punitive th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC damages were available and simply look to see if Congresshad said otherwise. And that's the presumption that thecourt of appeals applied in this case. Instead, the Court purported to engage in aninquiry of Congress's intent and -- and focused on thefact that when -- when Congress enacted section , itmade very clear that it was adopting a special species oftort liability looking to the -- the State common law atthe time which provided for punitive damages there. So,we think that the section case is quite differentthan this case. The Court --QUESTION: But you -- and you rely on the heavygun in statutes like title VI, title IX. That heavy gunis so heavy that it's never used. I mean, in the casethat we will hear tomorrow, the statement was made, well,yes, it would be a drastic sanction to withdraw Federalfunds, but in years it hasn't happened.MR. GARRE: Well, first of all, it does happen. It happened in the Grove City case that came here, and Icould point Your Honor to additional examples in which thetermination funding mechanism has been used. Now, to besure, it -- it's an unusual remedy and it's a harshremedy, and simply because it's not used in more casesdoesn't mean that it doesn't have a deterrent effect. QUESTION: Under the Rehabilitation Act, it has th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC been used under ? MR. GARRE: Yes. I could point you to -- to onecase. It's -- it's not a case cited in the brief. It's acourt of appeals case, Freeman v. Cavassos, F.d., which is one example. But -- but again, the -- the Federal Government-- Congress gave the Federal Government and the Federalagencies authority to enforce these provisions short offunding termination. The -- the agencies receivethousands of complaints each year under title II andsection . And they investigate those complaintscommeasurate with the seriousness of the allegationsraised in those complaints, and they are successful innegotiating compliance agreements, ranging from informalagreements to formal settlement agreements, in which thosealleged to -- to have engaged in discrimination agree totake corrective measures to eliminate discrimination and,in some cases, to pay monetary sums. Now, the -- the Federal agencies have enteredinto more of those agreements under title II alone inthe past years. So, there is an administrative processin place. It's statutory -- statutorily created byCongress, and we think that that process itself counselsheavily against judicial inference of punitive damages.Or in addition, to return to the -- the Court's th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Franklin case, the Franklin case is grounded on the notionthat the Federal courts have the authority to provide aremedy when necessary to make good the wrong done. Thatprinciple has no application to and has never beenextended to punitive damages. It would be a quantum leapfor this Court to extend the Franklin principle topunitive damages.Punitive damages, the Court has recognized, areboth quasi-criminal, unpredictable, and at times have adevastating effect. Those characteristics of punitivedamages make them uniquely suited for careful legislativejudgment. Congress in section and title II has notmade any legislative judgment that punitive damages shouldbe available, and therefore, this Court should reverse thedecision below. If there are no further questions. QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. Garre.Mr. Nelson, we'll hear from you.ORAL ARGUMENT OF SCOTT L. NELSONON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTMR. NELSON: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court:This case presents the issue of whether Congressforeclosed awards of punitive damages when it enacted therights of action to enforce section of the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Rehabilitation Act and title II of the ADA which togetherprohibit discrimination against people with disabilitiesin the provision of public services.The text, structure, policies, and legislativehistory of the ADA disclose no prohibition on the award ofpunitive damages. Absent such a prohibition --QUESTION: Well, if -- now that the EleventhAmendment immunity issue is gone, don't we have to dealwith City of Newport?MR. NELSON: Well, I think the answer to that,Justice O'Connor, is no. Had the defendants wished topreserve the ability to argue for immunity on City ofNewport, they were free to do so in the lower courts.QUESTION: Well, do you say that we areprecluded from considering that authority as we resolvethis case? MR. NELSON: No, I don't say --QUESTION: No. MR. NELSON: -- you're precluded from it. It's-- it's a --QUESTION: No. So, are you going to deal withit then? that. MR. NELSON: Yes. I -- I do intend to deal withI'd like to start by dealing with -- with the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC issue of whether there's a punitive damages remedy at allbecause I think then the Newport issue really is secondaryto that. And the starting point with respect to theavailability of punitive damages I think has to be thisCourt's decision in Franklin. And it's useful I think to,instead of looking at -- at arguments about what underliesFranklin, to look at what Franklin said. Quote: "thegeneral rule, therefore, is that absent clear direction tothe contrary by Congress, the Federal courts have thepower to award any appropriate relief in a cognizablecause of action brought pursuant to a Federal statute."QUESTION: Franklin wasn't dealing with punitivedamages, was it? MR. NELSON: That's right, Mr. Chief Justice. Punitive damage was -- was not the form of relief that wasbeing addressed in Franklin.QUESTION: And appropriate relief does not soundto me to be consistent with your beginning premise whichwas that unless Congress forecloses the remedy, we mustgive it. MR. NELSON: Well, I certainly don't mean to saythat -- that in any particular case, the Court must giveit unless Congress forecloses it, but if Congress has notforeclosed it, it's potentially available if, in view of th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC the policies of -- of the particular statute, it's anappropriate remedy and in view of the conduct that's beingaddressed. Specifically, under this Court's decisions,punitive damages are an appropriate remedy where there'swillful -- a willful violation or reckless disregard of --of the legal entitlements of the plaintiff. QUESTION: Well, what do you make of the -- theargument that the whole touchstone for damages here is, which is essentially the -- the spending power -- the-- the -- a statute resting on the spending power? Theclosest analogy to that is with contract, and you don'tget punitive damages from contract. MR. NELSON: Well, there -- there are twoanswers to that. The first is that the touchstone is notsimply , but also the ADA, which is not a SpendingClause enactment at all. The second is that --QUESTION: But that referred to for -- for-- in effect, for its remedial scheme. MR. NELSON: To the extent that -- that what it-- what it says is that the remedies available, theremedies being a private right of action -- and that doesnot necessarily, however, import a limitation imposed onthat remedy from above by the Spending Clause that doesn'tinhere in the -- in the nature of the statute itself,assuming that the Spending Clause does impose that th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC limitation, which I don't concede, and I'll get to in amoment. But this Court actually addressed a similarsituation in the Darrone case. The issue there was theremedies available under section for a case ofemployment discrimination, and in turn incorporatesthe remedies available under title VI. Title VI saidthere is no remedy available for employment discriminationunder title VI except with regard to a Federal programwhere the funding is for employment purposes. This Courtsaid that by incorporating the title VI remedies, section did not incorporate that limitation on the remedialscheme that had nothing to do with the policies underlyingsection which were to eliminate discrimination againstthe handicapped more broadly.Similarly, under the Americans with DisabilitiesAct, the -- the purpose of that act is to extend evenfurther than the prohibition on and the remedies fordiscrimination against persons with disabilities. And toimport into that statutory scheme a limit on relief that-- that would pull it back and -- and restrict it towhat's appropriate on a Spending Clause measure would beinappropriate under, I think, the mode of analysis thisCourt used in Darrone. But in any event, even if one looks only at th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC section , the Spending Clause analogy to contractdoesn't limit remedies available to contractual remedies. This Court I think made clear, both in Franklin and thenmore recently in Davis v. Monroe County, that although theobligation that an entity may undertake under the SpendingClause is contractual in the sense that it's voluntary andit has to be clearly stated what the substantiverequirements you're subjecting yourself to when you acceptFederal funding are, that that does not carry with it thenotion that you're limited to a, quote, "contract" remedy.In Davis, what the plaintiff sought in hercomplaint was punitive and compensatory damages forinjuries that had been inflicted on her. She, of course,was not a party to any contract. What she was seeking wasquintessentially a tort recovery, and this Court held inDavis that as long as the requirement that the conduct wasintentional, it was a violation that was -- that -- that aperson in authority had knowledge of and had -- hadallowed the situation to go forward, that if thoseconditions, which were Spending Clause conditions underthe Gebser decision -- if those conditions were met, youcould go forward and obtain the type of tort remedialrelief that the plaintiff was --QUESTION: Well, you say -- you say she wasn't aparty to the contract. She -- she was a beneficiary of th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC the contract, surely. I mean --MR. NELSON: Well, you could, I suppose,analogize her to a third party beneficiary, but to suggestthat --QUESTION: And contract actions were originaltort actions. It's easy to characterize a contract actionas a tort action. Right? It's just assumpsit.MR. NELSON: Well, and in fact --QUESTION: I -- I'm not sure a whole lot hangson --MR. NELSON: -- that -- that argument can go theother way, too, because the States are broadly recognizingthat -- that malicious and bad faith breaches of contractcarry with them tort remedies.But I'll give another example. This Court in acouple of decisions, Wright v. Roanoke Housing Authority,and Wilder v. Virginia Hospital Association, held thatunder Spending Clause enactments, obligations can beimposed on the recipients of funds that are enforceablethat create enforceable rights under section .And this Court has repeatedly held, mostrecently I think in City of Monterey v. Del Monte Dunes,that is ever and always a tort remedy.QUESTION: Mr. -- Mr. Nelson, why don't we lookspecifically at this context, which is the ADA, and the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC anomaly that when Congress thought about punitive damages,as we know it did in the employment part, it provided forthem with qualifications and with caps on amount. So, itwould be passing strange, would it not, that when Congressis explicit about punitive damages, it contains them, andit when it says not one word one way or another, they areunlimited because that's -- as I take your argument to be,under part , there are the caps and the qualifications,but under part , it's public service, no limitation.MR. NELSON: It's under title I that the capsapply, Justice Ginsburg, and I think that what thatillustrates is not -- not the point that -- that Congressdidn't intend to provide these remedies. You have to lookat -- at the timing of the enactments and the backgroundof those changes to the -- in the Civil Rights Act of.As the ADA was originally enacted, title I,consonant with title VII, didn't provide a damages remedyof any kind. It didn't provide an entitlement to anylegal forms of relief. It was limited to equitable relieffollowing the -- the title VII model. No such limitation has ever been placed on titleII. In title II, Congress simply incorporated byreference an action for legal remedies that this Court hadalready recognized to exist. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Now, then in , Congress expanded the reliefunder title I of the ADA, as well as under title VII ofthe Civil Rights Act for the first time ever to allow adamages remedy, either compensatory or punitive, foremployment discrimination to which those statutes applied.And what that illustrates is simply the historythat Congress has been very wary about providing broaddamages remedies in the employment discrimination area andin , it relaxed that unwillingness to some degree, butthen placed a cap on it. But in title II, it's quiteclear, from the original legislation, that Congressdidn't impose that circumscribed set of employmentdiscrimination remedies on title II. So, by expandingtitle I, that doesn't either limit title II or imply thattitle II was ever intended to be limited. QUESTION: Am I right that title III says nopunitive damages?MR. NELSON: Title III says no punitive damagesat all as part of a -- of a remedial scheme that issimilarly circumscribed to -- to title I, although insomewhat different ways, a remedial scheme that undertitle III doesn't make a private right of action fordamages of any kind available to an individual plaintiff. Under title III, it's only the Attorney General who canever sue for any damages, and then when Congress -- it -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC having made a -- a damages remedy available to theAttorney General, it then went on to say, and under thisstatute, damages doesn't include punitive damages.I think to the extent that sheds any light ontitle II at all, we know that in title II, Congress knewthat it was creating a damages remedy. That it didn'tlimit those damages, as it did in title III, when itcreated that limited damages remedy through the AttorneyGeneral, is, if anything, an indication that no limitationwas intended.QUESTION: Why? Why? Because -- why -- whywould somebody want to -- title II has to do with actionsagainst a government basically, doesn't it? MR. NELSON: That's correct.QUESTION: So -- so, I thought punitives areprimarily designed to compensate an individual who's notgoing to be compensated. It's just a way of wielding avery big club against the people who behaved badly.MR. NELSON: Well --QUESTION: Now, why would you want that big clubto be wielded against private people in limited amounts,but when you get to a government which, after all,represents the entire public, you say the sky is thelimit? Newport would suggest where the government isinvolved it's less reasonable to assess punitives than th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC where a private individual is. MR. NELSON: Well, I think the -- part of theanswer to that is the whole structure of the ADA remedialscheme indicates an intention to make broader remediesavailable against public entities than private entities tobegin with. That's why, when the ADA was originallyenacted, there were all these limits placed on title III,no compensatory damages even, limits on title I againstprivate and public employers, not even any compensatorydamages. Clearly, in title II, everyone agrees thatCongress made available a remedy there that is much moreextensive than it made against private employers orprivate offerors of public accommodations.Now, why Congress did that I think is -- isperhaps somewhat obscure, but it seems to relate back tothe entire history, starting with the Civil RightsAct, where Congress was very hesitant about imposing broadremedies against private actors, possibly in part due tothe -- the effectiveness of their lobbyists, which --which may have been greater in this instance than those of-- of public employers and entities. But for whatever reason Congress did it, it'sclear that Congress did enact broader remedies under titleII than under those titles that are applicable to --QUESTION: But that's an anomaly too because in th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC title -- title III, which is the -- the title that imposes-- title I is the one -- employment. Right? MR. NELSON: Correct. QUESTION: And are government employers liablefor punitive damages under title I?MR. NELSON: No, they are not. QUESTION: So, your -- your notion that -- thatthe government is not well representative in thelegislature -- here is a title that says, private sector,you're going to be stuck. You're going to be subject topunitive damages, but not government entities.MR. NELSON: Well, that -- that was -- that waswhat happened in the round. Presumably the -- theCongress there obviously did made -- make a consideredchoice not to impose those remedies on -- on publicactors.But I think, you know, to step back evenfurther, one has to look at the fact that both section, by virtue of the Rehabilitation Act amendments,and the ADA, by virtue of -- of section , are subjectas a general rule to the principle that -- that Congressvery deliberately said public entities, and in particularStates, are going to be subject to the full range ofremedies that are available against private defendants. Congress did that explicitly in both those -- both those th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC statutes.And I think what that indicates is that therehas been a considered judgment in these statutes that,especially in the area of the provision of publicservices, Congress wants broad remedies to be madeavailable against the public entities that are subject toit. It's true that Congress made a different judgment in when it extended the -- the remedies for employmentdiscrimination. But except for that provision of thestatute where public employers were given a specialexemption, the rest of the statute evinces an -- anintention by Congress that public entities not get specialexemptions. QUESTION: But doesn't that seem ratherperverse?MR. NELSON: Well, I think it -- it seems -- itseems to me that -- that one can look at it either way. It's perverse if you're a public entity; it's not perverseif you're a business entity that feels like anti-discrimination laws trench on the -- the freedom ofbusinesses to operate in the way they want to operate.I think what Congress has done with respect todiscrimination against persons with disabilities, first inmaking the remedies available against recipients ofFederal funds, and then in making the title II remedies th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC available against public entities, is -- is Congress hasmade a judgment that says, we think discrimination againstpersons with disabilities is particularly objectionablewhen engaged in by the government, just as in thefourth --QUESTION: But -- but your -- your Newport casecertainly suggests that traditionally public entities aretreated differently than private entities for the sameconduct if you're talking about punitive damages.MR. NELSON: That's certainly true. And -- andwhat I think is distinctive about Newport, to begin with,here I do believe that -- that if the Court were toconsidered that under these statutes there is a punitivedamages remedy available generally, and then the questionis should these particular defendants be freed from itunder a City of Newport rationale, that -- that it's fairfor this Court to hold the -- the defendant to the rulethat it generally applies, which is that if you want toargue something like that, raise an issue like that, youshould do it in the lower courts. But even looking beyond that, what we have in --in these statutes is in the --QUESTION: About the issue, are you -- are yousuggesting that it is not included in the questionpresented? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. NELSON: No, I'm not making that argument. QUESTION: Then -- then did you in your brief inopposition point out that this was not properly raised inthe lower courts? MR. NELSON: Yes, that was pointed out in thebrief in opposition. QUESTION: I want to be sure you -- suppose thatwe did look at the Newport issue. I'm not saying that weshould, but suppose we did. And suppose that you lost onyour point that it should be waived or deemed waived. What would your -- is there any response to their claim onthe merits that -- that Newport makes clear that they arenot liable in punitive damages?MR. NELSON: Yes. I think -- I think that --that the first response is that through the RehabilitationAct amendments of , which are codified at U.S.C.,section (d)(), and also in section of the ADA,which is codified at U.S.C., section , thoseprovisions are fundamentally incompatible with the notionof Newport immunity.And I want to just start by expressing myunderstanding of what Newport immunity is in light of thisCourt's decision in -- in the Vermont Natural Resourcescase. It's not specifically an immunity that is municipalimmunity. It's an immunity or a -- or a general th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC presumption against awards of punitive damages againstState and local governments as a class. And -- and whatit says where it operates is that those defendants as aclass have an exemption against a particular form ofrelief that is otherwise available against private actors.In the Rehabilitation Act amendments and insection of the ADA, what Congress said expressly isthat as to remedies against States, which are one of theentities entitled to the Newport presumption, they'resubject to the same remedies under the statutes as are anyother private or public entities, meaning if you can getit against a private entity, you can get it against aState. And that takes away the fundamental premise ofNewport, which is that governmental entities as a classare entitled to a special exemption. What these statutessay is that governmental entities as a class are entitledto no special exemption. And the City of Newport issue Ithink simply goes away. I'd also suggest that one of the fundamentalpremises of City of Newport is not present under thesestatutes, and that is that there's an adequate alternativedeterrent. And -- and in this case, what we're talkingabout when we're talking about punitive damages as adeterrent, to answer Justice Kennedy's question earlier ofMr. Robbins, in this case the compensatory damages award th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC did include pain, suffering, humiliation, and mentaldamages. So, we're not talking about punitive damageshere as a surrogate for some component of compensatories. We're talking about it as a remedy designed to provide adeterrent that will assist in -- in Congress's goal ofeliminating discrimination against persons withdisabilities.And in -- in Newport, this Court looked at the remedy and said, yes, punitive damages are animportant element of deterrence with respect to civilrights violations that are subject to section . Butwe have a better deterrent which is the availability ofpunitive damages against individual defendants whoactually make the decisions to carry out the -- thewrongful acts that is responding to. Now, whetherthat judgment is -- as to which is more effective, iscorrect or not, that's the line the Court drew in Newport.But under these statutes, that remedy is notavailable because section and title II of the ADA makequite clear that they provide remedies only against theentities. There's no right of action against a -- anindividual under title II of the ADA or under section of the Rehabilitation Act. So, with respect to thesestatutes, deterrence against the entity is all you've gotand all you can rely on. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC And that's yet another reason why Newport'spolicies are inapplicable here. And Newport was veryclear that beyond looking at the immunity, as -- as itused the term, of municipalities as a -- as a sort ofstandard to try to determine what the legislature wasthinking about when it enacted the statute, the Court wasalso going to look at the policies of the particularstatutes to determine whether or not immunity frompunitive damages accorded with those policies. And giventhe distinctions between the ADA and section , thosepolicies are not served here by immunizing the -- thedefendants against punitive damages on -- under a Newportrationale. I'd also like to get back for a moment, if Icould, to the -- the notion that what's going on inFranklin is limited to compensatory remedies and that --that the idea of -- of punitive damages as one of thenormal modes of relief offered by the Federal courts isnot really what the Court was talking about in Franklin. I think that's inconsistent not only with Bivens where inCarlson v. Green this Court, I think, held that punitivedamages are available in Bivens actions because, as one ofthe ordinary remedial mechanisms available to the Federalcourts, they were particularly appropriate for the redressof constitutional violations. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC The reason I say that that's a holding is theissue in Carlson was not whether there was a -- a right ofaction for any relief at all under the Eighth Amendment. It was conceded that -- that the plaintiff could getinjunctive relief against an Eighth Amendment violation ifthere was a pervasive --QUESTION: Mr. Nelson, last year in -- in theAlexander case and this year in the Malesko case, we'veindicated that we're taking a much more critical look, Ithink, at these kind of claims than we ever did inCarlson.MR. NELSON: Well, Mr. Chief Justice, I don'tthink that that's -- that that's quite right with respectto -- with respect to the evolution of this Court'sdoctrine. I think what the Court said, in -- inparticular in Sandoval, was that -- that the Court hadbacked away from the notion that for every right, therehas to be a remedy and had gone to the -- the Court v. Ashnotion, that what we're looking for when we're trying todetermine whether a right of action exists iscongressional intent.But that was true at the time of -- of Franklinas well and the Court in Franklin said that's a separatequestion from what relief you get when it's conceded thatthere is a right of action to begin with. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC And similarly, in Malesko, this Court said,we're not going to recognize a right of action againstthis particular entity. The question, when it's clearthat Congress has made a right of action available, as itis here, and what form of relief is appropriate, is adifferent matter. QUESTION: Well, but what -- what you're arguingbasically is that every one of these things is fixed intime permanently not just as to its holding, but as -- asto language in it. And what I'm trying to suggest is thatthat is not always necessarily so, that the Court may takea slightly different view some -- now than it did yearsago.MR. NELSON: Well, Mr. Chief Justice, I thinkthat's clearly -- that's clearly true. And the questionthat -- that we as -- as lawyers are trying to -- to dealwith is -- is how, in light of changes in precedent and --and changes in evolution of the Court's doctrine overtime, what aspects can we pull out and -- and holdconstant or -- or use to make arguments as to what therule remains. And to me, looking at Franklin, which was a casethat -- first of all, all nine Justices concurred in theholding at the time. Second, it came at a point wherethis Court had already evolved far away from the every th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC right must have a remedy doctrine and was looking veryspecifically at whether or not Congress had intended toallow a right of action. But what the opinion for theCourt said and even the concurrence said was when it'scrystal clear that Congress said there's a right of actionhere, does -- do we infer limits on our ability to provideappropriate relief when Congress hasn't given us guidanceon that subject? QUESTION: And didn't say anything about whetherpunitives would be appropriate relief because all Franklininvolved was compensatory damages. Before that, it wasthought that there were no compensatory damages underspending statutes. To clarify that, they used the phraseappropriate relief. So, we've never had any holding thatunder Franklin punitive damages would be appropriate. MR. NELSON: That's correct, Justice Ginsburg. On the other hand, the Court has certainly held thatpunitive damages are appropriate in implied statutoryrights of action, the most notable being section which, unlike section , is an implied right of action. Section doesn't say anything about creating a rightfor anybody to go in and get enforcement, and the Courthas held not only is there a right of action there, butheld as recently as the Pollard case, which I believe waslast year, that under the scope of relief includes th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC punitive damages. I think that what that reflects is the Franklinprinciple, that when there's a cause of action, when it'sa cause of action such as these, that is, essentially atort remedy, that the traditional range of relief that'sappropriate for such rights is provided. And that rangeof relief includes punitive damages.And -- and again, the issue in this case is notwhether on the facts punitive damages are appropriate,because that hasn't yet been decided, but whether everpunitive damages are appropriate under this statute. AndI think Franklin speaks to the question not in its expressholding but its rationale which -- which I believe hassurvived down to the present. Unless there are any further questions, I willleave it at that. QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. Nelson. Mr. Robbins, you have minutes remaining.REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF LAWRENCE S. ROBBINSON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERSMR. ROBBINS: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice.Let me turn -- go back for just a moment to the act because I think its -- its significance here isterribly important and quite a bit different fromrespondent's characterization. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC The act amended title I of the ADA and alsothe Rehabilitation Act to provide a capped punitivedamages remedy available only to -- only tonongovernmental entities. This case obviously involves anuncapped award, indeed an award four times the size of thecap, applied only to governmental entities and not in anemployment setting. That's more than simply anomalous. It is, I think, completely implausible for reasons that Ithink go beyond what -- what Mr. Nelson has described toyou.The fact is title I was enacted in its originalform at the very same time that Congress was consideringthe legislation. Everyone in Congress knew that whenthey enacted in title I that there shall be the sameremedies as title VII -- everyone knew that at that verymoment laying before another committee in Congress was thevery legislation that is being characterized as the legislation, as if it happened much later. These happenedsimultaneously and everyone knew that punitive damageswere around the corner. In my view, when you look at whatMr. Nelson called the timing of the enactments, you reallyhave to read title I as if it enacted a punitive damagesand capped and targeted and calibrated.Title III also has a penalty provision. Although it forbids punitive damages, to go back to th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Justice Ginsburg's question, it has a civil penaltiesprovision. So, the thing that is remarkable aboutrespondent's position and the position you would be urgedto adopt is that although title I of the ADA has a limitedpunitive damages provision applicable only to employmentcases and exempting the government, and although title IIIhas a civil penalties provision applicable only to publicaccommodations, title II, which is silent, shall have anunlimited punitive damages provision which can be appliedagainst governmental entities. And it is againstgovernmental entities and only governmental entities thattitle II applies. And City of Newport, I should add, doesn'tchange just how anomalous that is. The Rehabilitation Actamendments go not one step in the direction of overturningCity of Newport. The Rehabilitation Act amendments sayonly this, that the States shall be liable for whateverremedies are applicable to other public entities orprivate entities. It doesn't tell us what those shall be,and in our view punitive damages aren't available againstanybody under title II. So, it -- it hardly advancesrespondent's position to say that there shall beapplicable to the States whatever is applicable to anyoneelse. The other thing is, what are those other public th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC entities if not, among other things, municipal governmentslike my client? By carving out, in other words, municipalgovernments, the amendment is a very strange way tooverrule the doctrine in -- in City of Newport, and Iwould respectfully suggest that it does no such thing.Let me -- let me end with this point. And wehaven't -- we haven't mentioned the history of judicialinterpretation of title VI and section , which hadnever -- never, not once -- ever been construed to permitpunitive damages at any of the times in history that thesestatutes were meticulously amended and -- and previousremedy provisions incorporated going forward. But I do want to end with where Mr. Nelsonbegan.QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. Robbins. MR. ROBBINS: Perhaps not. (Laughter.) CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: You've already ended.(Whereupon, at : p.m., the case in theabove-entitled matter was submitted.) th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC A ability : : about : :, :, : : : :, : :, : : :,, :, :, :, :, : above : above-entitled : : absent : : absolutely : accept : accommodations : : accomplish : accorded : achieve :, achieving : act :, :, : : : : : : : : : : : : :, :, action :, : : :, :,, : : : :, : : : :,, :, :,,,, :, actions : :, : :, : : actors : : : acts : actual : actually : : : ADA : :, : : : : :, : : : : : : : : add : : addition : : additional : : address : addressed : : : : adequate : administrative : : : adopt : adopted : adopting : advances : adverts : after : : : : again : : : against :, :,, : : :, :,, :,, : : :,, :, : :,,,,, :,,,, : : : :,, agencies : :,, ago : agree : agreements :,,, agrees : AL : Alexander : allegations : alleged : allow : : : allowed : alone : : already : : : : alternative : : although : : : : : :, always : : : amended : : amendment : :, : :, amendments : : : : : : Americans : : amicus : : : among : amount :, : amounts : : analogize : analogous : analogy : : analysis : anomalous : : anomaly : : : another : : : : answer : : : : answers : anti : antithetical : anybody : : anyone : anything : :, anyway : appeals : : : : APPEARANCES : appendix : applicable : :,,,, application : applied : : : : applies : : : apply : : appropriate :,,, :, :, : : : :,, :, :,, April : area : : argue : : : : argued : : arguing : : argument : :, :, : : :, : : : : : : : : : arguments : : : arm :, around : ascertain : Ash : asking : aspect : aspects : assess : assist : assistance : Assistant : Association : assume :, assumed : assuming : assumpsit : attention : Attorney : :, authority : :,, : : : : : authorizes : availability : : : available : : : : : : : : :,, : : : :, : :, :, : : :, : : : award : : : : : : :, awarded : awards : : : away :, : : a.m : : B back : : : : : : : backed : background : : bad : badly : : balance : Barnes : : basically : : basis : : : before : :, : : began : begin : : : beginning : behalf :,, :,,, : : : : behaved : being : : :, : : believe : : : : : believes : Bell :,, : below : :, : : : th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC : beneficiary : : better : between : : beyond : : : : big :, bit : Bivens : :,,, :, blind : books : both : : : : : : :, breaches : Breyer : : brief : : : :, briefly : bring : broad : : : broader : :, : :, broadly : : brought : : business : businesses : bypassing : C C : : calibrated : call : called : : : calling : came : : : cap : : capacity : capped :, caps :,, care : : careful : Carlson : : :, carries : carry : : : : carving : case : : :, : :,, : : : : : : : :,, :,,, :, :,, :,, :,, : : :, : : : : :, : : : : : cases : : : : : category : cause : : : :, Cavassos : certainly : :, : : : : : certiorari : : cetera : : change :, : changes : :, characteristics : characterization : characterize : characterized : charged : Chief :, : : : : : : choice : : Circuit :, : :, :, : :,, :, Circuit's : circumscribed :, cited : : City :, : : :, : : :, : : :, :, : civil : : : : : :, claim : claims : clarify : class :,,, Clause : : :,, : :,, : clean : clear : : : : : : : : : : : : clearing : clearly : : : :, client :, :, :, : clients : closest : club :, codified :, cognizable : come : : : comes : commeasurate : committed : committee : common : :, :,,, : compelling : compensable : compensate : compensated : compensatories : compensatory : : :,, :, : :, : : : :, : : :, complaint : complaints :,, completely : compliance : component : concede : conceded :, concept : Concepts : concurred : concurrence : condition : conditions :,, conduct : : : confident : : confined : : confusion : :, Congress :, : : : : : :, :, :, :,,, :,,, :, :, : :,,,, :,, :,,, : : : :,, :,, congressional : Congress's : : : consideration : considered : : : considering : : consistent : consonant : constant : constitutional :, : : constrained : construction : : construe : construed : contains : context : :,,, : contract :, :,,, : :,, contractual : :, contrary : : : controversial : corner : corpus : correct : : : : : : corrective : counsel : counsels : County : : : couple : course : : court :, :, :,,,, :, : :,, :, : : : : : : : :,,,, :,, : :,,, : :,, : : :, : :, : : :,, :,,, :,, :,, courts : : : : : : : : : : : th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC : Court's : : : : : : : : cover : covered : create : created : : : : creating : : critical : crystal : curiae : : : D D : damage : damages :, : :, : : : :,,,, :,, :,, :, :, :, :,, :,,,, :, :, : :,,,,, : :,, :,, : :,, :,,,,, :,,,,, :, :, :, : : :, :,,, :,,, :,,, :,,, :, :, :,, : Darrone :, Davis :,, deal :,, : dealing : : decide : : decided : : : decision : :, : : : : decisions : : : : deemed : defendant : defendants : : : : : : : definition : degree : Del : deliberately : Department : : derive : described : deserves : designed : : detailed : deter : determine :, : deterrence :, :, deterrent : : :, : : devastating : dictum : different : : : :, : differently : : : direction : : disabilities : : :, : : : disclose : discrimination :, : :, :, :,, :,, : : discussion : disregard : distinctions : : distinctive : diverting : divide : doctrine : : : : : : : doctrines : done : : : : : down : drastic : drawn : drew : due :, : Dunes : D.C :,,, E E : :, each : earlier : ease : : easy : effect : : : : : : effective : effectiveness : Eighth :, : :, :,, : :,, :, :, either : : :, : element : Eleventh : :, : eliminate : : eliminating : embraces : employers :,, : : employment :,, : :,, : : : : enact : enacted :, : : : : : :,, enacting : : enactment : enactments : : : end :, ended : enforce : : enforceable :, enforcement : : : enforcing : engage : engaged : : enormous : : enormously : entered : entire : : : entities :,, :, :, :,, :,,, : :, :,,,, : entitled :,, entitlement : entitlements : entity : :, : : : equitable : especially : : ESQ :,, :,,, essentially : : et : :, ETC : even : :, :, : : : event : : ever : : :,, : : : every : :, everyone : :,, evidence : :, : : evinces : evolution : : evolved : exactly :, example : : : examples : except : : excess : exempting : exemption : :,, exemptions : exist : exists : expanded : expanding : explicit : : explicitly : explicitory :,, express : : : expressing : expressly : :, : extend : : extended : : extensive : extent : : extraordinarily : extraordinary : th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC eye : F facets : fact : :, : :, : : : : factors :, facts : fair : faith : falls : far : Federal : : :, : :,,, : :, : : : :, feels : fellow : financial : find : : first :, :, : :,, : : : : : : fixed : focused : focusing : following : forbids : foreclosed : : : forecloses :, form : : : : formal : forms : forward :, : four : fourth : Franklin :, :, :,, : :,,,, : :, :,, :,,,, : : : :, : :, : : free : freed : freedom : Freeman : freighted : from : : : : : : : :,, : : :, :, : : : :, : : full : fundamental :, fundamentally : funding : : : : : : : funds : : : further : : : : F.d : G G : : : : Garre : : :,, : :, : : : gave : Gebser : general : : : :, : generally :, gets : : Ginsburg : : : : Ginsburg's : give :, :, :, : given :, : : : : : : : giving : glad :, : go :, : :, : : : :, : goal : goes : : going : : : :,, :, : : gone : : good : : :, : : Gorman : : : government : : :, : :, :,, : : governmental :, : : :, governments : :, greater : Green : : GREGORY : : : ground :, :, grounded : Grove : guess :, guidance : gun :, Gwinnett : : H hand : handicapped : hangs : happen : happened :, : :, hardly : harsh : having : : hear : : : : heavens : heavily : heavy :,, held : : : :, : :,, her :, : hesitant : historically : history : : : : :, hold : : holding : :, : : Honor : : : : Honor's : Hood :, : hope : Hospital : Housing : humiliation :,, :,, : : hypothetical : I idea : : identified : ignore : II : :, : : :, : : :, :,,, :,, :, : :, :,, III :,,, : : : : : illustrates : : immune :, immunity :, :,,,, :, :,,,, :, immunizing : implausible : implications : implied : :, imply : import : : : important : : : : impose : : : imposed : : imposes : imposing : inapplicable : inappropriate : : : inclined : include :, : : included : : : includes : : : including : : : incompatible : inconsistent : incorporate : incorporated : : incorporates : incorporating : indeed : th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC indicated : indicates : : indication : : individual : : : :, infer : : : inferable : inference : inferred : inflicted : informal : inhere : inherent : initial : injunction : injunctive : injuries : inquiry : instance : instead : : instructed : instruction : intend : : intended : : : : intent : : : intention : : intentional : interpretation : investigate : involve : involved : : involves : issue :,, : : : : : : :, : :, : : : : IX : J Jeffrey : : joint : judgment :, :, : : judicial : : jurisdiction : : jurisdictions : :, : jury : :,, just :, : : : : : : : : : : Justice : :, : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : Justices : K Kay : : Kennedy : : Kennedy's : kind : : : knew : :,, know : : : : : : : knowledge : L L : : : language : : last : : : later : Laughter : :, : : law : : : :,,,, : :,, : LAWRENCE : :, : : laws : lawyers : layer : laying : leap : leave : left : legal : :, legislation : : :,, legislative : : :, : legislature : : less : let :, : : :, levels : liability : liable : : : light : : : : like : : : :,, : : : : : :, : : limit : : : :, limitation : :, :, : limited : : : :, : : limits :, : line : : litigant : little : live : lobbyists : local : long : look : : : : : : : : : : : : looked : looking : : : : : : : : looks : : lost : : lot : : lots : lower :,, : : : M made : : : :, : : : : : :, : :, : : main : make : : :, : : : : : : : : : : makes : make-whole : making :, : Malesko : : malicious : man : mandate : many : : matter : : : : : : : : matters : may :, : :, : : : : : mean : : : : : : :, : : meaning : : : means : meant : :, measure : : measures : :,, : mechanism : mechanisms : mental : mentioned : merits : met : meticulously : might :, million : minutes : misconstruction : mistake : : misunderstood : mode : model : modes : moment : : : : monetary : money : Monroe : Monte : Monterey : more : :, : : : : : : : : most : : : much :, : : : : municipal : : : :, municipalities : : th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC municipality : : : : must : : :, : N N :, : narrower : narrowest : Natural : nature : necessarily : : : necessary : : needed : negotiating : Nelson : : :,, :, :, :, :, :, :, : : :, : :,, : : :,, :, : : : :, : never : : : : :, Newport :,, :, : : :, : :, : : : :, :,,, :,, : :, :, :, : Newport's : next : :, nine : nobody : nondiscrimination : none : nongovernmental : normal : normally : notable : nothing : : : noticed : notion : : : : : :, O O : : objectionable : objectives : obligation : obligations : obscure : observing : obtain : : obvious : obviously : : offered : offerors : okay : once : : one :, : : : :, : :, :, : :, :, : : only : : : : : : :,, :,,, operate :, operates : : opinion : opportunity : opposition :, oral : : : : : order : : : ordinarily : ordinary : : original : : : originally : : : other : : : : : :,, :, otherwise : : : : ought : out : : : :, :, : : : over : : overcomes : overlay : overlooked : overrule : overturning : O'Connor : : P P : package : page : : pain :, :,,,, : parol : parole : part : :, :,, : :, particular : : : : : : : : : particularly : : : party : :, : passing : : past : pay : penal :, penalties :, penalty : people : : :, perhaps : : : : Period : permanently : permit : person : :, : : persons : : : : pertinent : pervasive : perverse :,, petition : petitioners :,, :,, : : : : phrase : place : placed : : : plaintiff : : : : : : : : please : : point : : : : : : : :, : : pointed : : points : policies : : : :,,, Pollard : position :, : : : :, : possibilities : possibility : possible : possibly : potentially : power : :, powerful : : precedent : Precisely : precluded :, premise : : : premises : present : : presented : : presents : preserve : Presumably : presumption : :, : : : :, presumptively : pretermit : prevail : previous : primarily : principle : :, : : private : : : : : : :,,,,, :, : :,, : process : :, program : programs : prohibit : prohibition :, : properly : : : propose : proposes : protections : provide : : :,, : : : : provided : : : provides : :, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC providing : provision : : :, : rather : : rationale : : : : :,,, provisions : : : public : : : : :,, : :, :,,,, : : : :,, pull : : punish : punished : punishment : : punitive :, : :, : : : :,, : :, : : :,, :,,,, :,, : : :,,, :, : :,,, :, : :, :,, : : : :, : :, :, : :,,, :, :, :, :,,, :,, : punitives : :, : purported : purporting : purpose : purposes : pursuant : : p.m : Q qualifications :, quantum : quarrel : quasi-criminal : question : :, :,,, : :,,, : :,,,,,, :,, :,, :,, : :, :,,, : : :, : :, : :,,, :, : : : :,, : : :, : :, : :, :, :, : :, : :, : :, : : questions : : : quintessentially : quite : :, :,, :, : : : : : : quote : : R R : raise : : raised : : range : :, ranging : rarely : : read : : : reading : really : : : reason :, : : : : reasonable : reasons : : : : : : rebuttal : :, : recall : receipt : receive : received : recently : : : recipients : : reckless : recognize : recognized : :, : : recognizing : record : recovery : redress : reference : : referred : reflects : regard : regarded : regime : :, regulations : regulatory : : :, Rehabilitation : : : : : : : : : : : REHNQUIST : : rejected : relate : relaxed : relief :,, : : : : : : : :,, : :,,, :, rely : : remaining : remains : remarkable : remedial :, : : : :, : : remedies : :,, : : : :, :,,, :, : :, :, :,, :, :,,, :, : : : : remedy : : :,, : :, : :, :, : : : : : : :,, : : :,, : : : : : repeatedly : representative : represents : requirement : requirements : requires : reserve :, resolve : resources : : respect : : : : : : :, respectfully : respondent : : : : respondent's : : :, responding : response : :, responsibility : rest : resting : restrict : result : : return : : : reverse : : reviewed : right : :, : : :, : : : : :, : : :,,,, :, :,,,,, rights : : : : : : : : : Roanoke : Robbins : :, :,,, :, : :,, : :,, :,, :,, :,, :, : :,, :, :,,, : : : :,, :, robust : round : rule :, : : : : : ruling : : S S : :,, :, : sails : same : : : :, sanction : : Sandoval : saw : saying : says :, : : : : :, : : : scheme : : : :, :, : th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Schools : scope : SCOTT : : : second :,, : : : : : secondary : secondly : section : :, : :, :, : :, :,, : : :, :,, : :,, : :,, : sector : see : : seeking : seem : seems : : : : : : : :, seen : sense : : sensible : separate :, : separately : seriousness : served : service : services : : set : setting : settlement : several : :, severe :, sheds : short : : : : significance : silent : : similar : similarly : : : simply : :, : : : : : simultaneously : situation : : : size : sky : slightly : smart : Smith : Solicitor : some :,,, : : : : somebody : : someone : something : : somewhat : : sorry : sort : : sought : : : sound : source : speaks : : special : :, :, species : specific : : specifically : : : : : : spending : :, :,, :, : :,, : : spoke : spoken : standard : start : : : starting : : State : : : :, stated : statement : : States :,, : : : : : :, statute : :, : : :, :, : :,,, : : : :,, : :, : : statutes : : : : :, :, :,, :, : : : statutorily : statutory : : :, : : : stem : step : : : strange : : strong : stronger : structure : : stuck : subject :,, : : : : subjecting : submitted : substantial : substantive : successful : suddenly : sue : sues :, suffering :, :,,, : suffers : sufficient : suggest : : : : : : suggested : suggesting : suggestion : :, suggests : : suit : suited : sums : supplement : supporting : : : suppose :, : :,, supposed :,, : Supreme :, sure : : : surely : surrogate : survived : sweep : synonymous : T T :, take : : :, : : : : : : taken : : takes : : : taking : : talk : talking : :, :, : targeted : task : tell : : : : telling :, term : : termination : : : : : terribly : test : text : Thank : : :, : their : : :, : : themselves : thing : : :, : things :, : :, : : think : :,,, :, :, : : :, : :, : : : : :,, : : : : : :, : :,, :, :, : :, :,, : :,, :, thinking : third : though : thought : : : : : thousands : threshold : through : : : time : :, : : : :,, : times : : : timing : : th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC title : :, :,,,, :,,, :, :, : : : : :,,, : :,,,, :,,,, :,,,,,, :,,, :,,, :,,,,, : :, :,,,,, :, :,, : titles : today : together : tomorrow : topic : tort : : :, :,,, : touchstone :, trademark : traditional : traditionally : : treated : trench : true : : : : : try : trying : :, Tuesday : tune : turn : : : : : two : :, :, : two-witness : type : U unbounded : uncapped : under : :, :, : :,, : :,,,, : : :, :,, :,, : : :, : :, :, :,, : : :,, : : underlie : underlies : underlying : : understand : : understanding : undertake : uniquely : United :,, : : unless : : : :, : unlike : unlimited : : unpredictable : unusual : : unwarranted : unwillingness : urged : : urging : use : : used : : : :,, : : : : useful : U.S.C :, V v : : : : : :,, : : variety : : various :, Vermont : very : : : : : : : : : : :,, : VI :, :,, :,, : : :,,, : view :, : : : : : : VII :, : : violation : : : : violations : : : Virginia : virtue : :,, :, voluntary : W waived : :, waiver : want : : : : : : :, : : :, : wanted : wants : warranted : wary : Washington :,,, wasn't : : : way : : : : :, : ways : well : :, :, : :, :,, :, :, : :, :,, : :, : :, : : : : : : :, :, went : were : : : : : : : : :, : : : : : : : : we'll : : : : we're : :, :, :,, : we've : : : : : white : whole : : :, : : : : wide-ranging : wielded : wielding : Wilder : willful :, wish : wished : withdraw : word : : words : : : work : worth : wouldn't :, Wright : wrong : :, : : wrongful : X :, X Y year : :, : years : : : $ $ : $, : : - : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : :,, :, :, :, : :, : : : : : : : : : : :,, : (d)() : : : : : : th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC : : : : :, : : : : :, : : :, :, :,, :,,,, : : : :, : : : : : th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC 