 IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XTHE BOEING COMPANY AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES, Petitioner :::v. : No. -UNITED STATES; and UNITED STATES, Petitioner ::::v. : No. -BOEING SALES CORPORATION, ET AL. ::- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XWashington, D.C.Monday, December , The above-entitled matter came on for oralargument before the Supreme Court of the United States at: a.m.APPEARANCES:KENNETH S. GELLER, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf ofthe Petitioner.KENT L. JONES, ESQ., Assistant to the Solicitor General,Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on behalf ofthe Respondent. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC C O N T E N T SORAL ARGUMENT OF KENNETH S. GELLER, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioner ORAL ARGUMENT OFKENT L. JONES, ESQ.On behalf of the Respondent REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OFKENNETH S. GELLER, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioner PAGE th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC P R O C E E D I N G S(: a.m.)JUSTICE STEVENS: We'll now hear argument in ourfirst case, Number , the Boeing Company against theUnited States. Mr. Geller.ORAL ARGUMENT OF KENNETH S. GELLERON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERMR. GELLER: Thank you, Justice Stevens, and mayit please the Court:The Internal Revenue Code generally requiresevery corporation to pay an annual tax measured by itsentire net income, but Congress decided years ago inthe DISC and FSC statutes that it wished to encourageexports by giving favorable tax treatment to the portion of a company's net income that's attributable to exportsales.In order to determine the extent of this incometax benefit, it's obviously critically important todetermine precisely how much net income is generated by acompany's export sales in any particular year.In enacting the DISC statute, Congress saidquite specifically how it expected this export net incomecalculation to be made. Gross revenues from export saleswere to be reduced only by those costs that were directly th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC and factually related to the export income. Export salesrevenues were not to be burdened with unrelated expenseswhich would distort the true amount of export income, andthereby reduce the intended incentive. The DISC regulations, which were promulgatedshortly after the statute was passed, reiterate that theremust be a direct factual relationship between export salesand expenses.QUESTION: Where do you -- do you get thatproposition in the statute, Mr. Geller?MR. GELLER: Justice Scalia, we get it out oftwo separate statutory provisions. One is section .QUESTION: Where are these to be found?MR. GELLER: These are -- this is found onpage a of the appendix to the petition. And specifically, the reference in (a) and(a)() to the requirement that a determination must bemade of the net income, quote, attributable to exportreceipts. We think that the common sense nature of theword attributable, which this Court in the tax context hasconstrued to mean generated by, or caused by, is that youhave to take the export -- the revenues from exports andreduce them only by the costs or deductions that arerelated to those exports, or else you can't possibly comeup with a true figure of export -- net export income th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC that's attributable to those -- to those sales. QUESTION: I -- I suppose that -- that R&Dexpenses have to be attributed in a lot of other instancesunder the code, don't they? And -- and doesn't theGovernment use this same procedure that it's been usinghere in other -- in other areas where it has toattribute -- where -- where R&D expense has to beattributed?MR. GELLER: Yes. It relies on a provision,which we'll talk about in a few minutes, that has many,many applications, and it may well be that in a number ofthose other applications, it's perfectly valid. Ourposition is --QUESTION: Well, why is that? I mean, why isit attributable --MR. GELLER: Well, as I hope to --QUESTION: -- okay elsewhere to -- to producethis result, but not okay here to produce this result? MR. GELLER: Because it -- the DISC provisionsare unique in a number of respects, one of which is itallows the taxpayer to engage in a particular grouping oftransactions, and the -- the -- as we'll talk about in afew minutes, the R&D regulations insist that R&D beattributed in a way that disregards the particulargroupings that the taxpayer has selected. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC But there's another statutory provision that I'dlike to call your attention to, Your Honor, and that'ssection . is a section of the code that has beenin the code, was in the code for more than years at thetime the DISC statute was passed, and it provides for howdeductions are to be allocated to gross income. This --this appears at page a of the appendix. Now Congress, in passing the DISC statute, saidquite specifically that it wanted deductions under theDISC statute to be allocated in a way generally inaccordance with the principles of section , which werewell-established at that time. QUESTION: Where -- where did Congress say that?MR. GELLER: Congress said that in the reportsof the House, of the tax-writing committee. QUESTION: Just for my benefit, when it's in thestatute, would you say Congress said it. When it's inlegislative history, would you tell me who said it?MR. GELLER: Yes, Your Honor. QUESTION: Because when you say Congress saidit, I thought you mean it's in the statute.MR. GELLER: Well, it's not in the statute. It's in the reports of the tax-writing committees. But,Your Honor, these were not idle statements. These werenot statements of individual Congressmen, or statements on th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC the floor. These were deliberate statements put in thereports of both the House and Senate tax-writingcommittees which focused specifically -- specifically --on how Congress expected these deductions to be allocated. And I would refer the Court to page --QUESTION: And I'm sure everybody who voted forthat knew about those statements. MR. GELLER: Your Honor, these were specificstatements that went to the heart of the issue that'sbefore the Court today, and we've quoted them at page of our brief, the blue brief. Congress said thatthese rules --QUESTION: The committee said. Please, please.MR. GELLER: The committee reports said --excuse me, Justice Scalia. The committee reports said that -- that the rules, which are important becauselater the regulations themselves under DISC reference the rules, so it's -- and that's the heart of theGovernment's argument in this case, so it's important tounderstand what people thought at the time these rulesmeant. QUESTION: But -- but why does get you outof the general allocation provisions any more than does? In other words, the question was, why do we ignorethe usual rule for apportionment of R&D? And you said, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC well, because is -- is specific and -- and has somepolicies of its own. And then you said -- and to furtherthat argument, you show us .MR. GELLER: Yes.QUESTION: But the regs that we're talkingabout, which the Government relies on, are under .MR. GELLER: Yes, but the -- the regulation,Justice Kennedy, that the Government relies on was addedto after the DISC regulations were finalized. It wasadded in . The DISC statute was passed in . TheDISC regulations were finalized in . So our positionis it's important to understand what Congress in thought it was doing in the DISC statute, and therefore itseems to us extremely important that it said that itexpected deductions, including presumably any deduction, including R&D, to be allocated in accordance generallywith the principles of section , which were describedquite clearly in the Senate and House reports of thetax-writing committees to --QUESTION: Mr. Geller, there's one problem. Perhaps you can cast some light on it. The word isattributable that you pointed to in . And the R&D youhave divided into Blue Sky and program- or product-specific.MR. GELLER: Yes. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: That -- that's Boeing's creation. The R&D -- that division is eminently manipulable, itseems to me, if it -- it's the distinction whether it'sallocated across the board because of Blue Sky orparticular program or project depends on some official actby a corporate board which could be yesterday, could benext month. It's in the control of the corporation.MR. GELLER: Not -- not quite, Justice Ginsburg. It's not manipulable. It has to satisfy the regulationspromulgated under DISC. The DISC regulations -- and hereI would refer the Court to page a of the appendix to thepetition, and specifically the grouping regulations --provide that a taxpayer can only group -- can only grouptransactions if they fall within a recognized industryproduct line. So, in other words, you can't -- you can't allocate expenses to any sorts of transactions you want. They have to be grouped in a way that's consistent withthe DISC statute. And that's exactly what Boeing did here. TheBlue Sky R&D was attributable to all of their airplaneproducts, and therefore it was allocated to the groupingsof all of the different airplane programs. Theseprogram-specific R&D -- and I don't think there's anyfactual dispute about this. The program-specific R&D wasfactually and directly related only to a specific program. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC The R&D, for example, was -- was factually anddirectly related only to the program. And that's whyBoeing allocated that R&D only to the program. QUESTION: Mr. Geller, can I ask you a factualquestion that will help me understand? Does the -- isthere just one DISC involved here, or do you have severalDISCs for different product lines?MR. GELLER: No. It's one -- it's one DISC.QUESTION: So that what difference would it makewhether it was the program, or the program if theDISC sells them both anyway?MR. GELLER: Because, Justice Stevens, under thestatute, combined taxable income or export income is -- isto be determined on the basis of product groupings, or atleast, the taxpayer has the option of choosing to group by different products rather than by all the sales of theDISC. So, therefore, here, we determine what the exportincome is for the program, which takes the revenuesfrom the program and reduces them by the deductions,including R&D that's factually and directly related to the program, and you -- you come up with the CTI for the program. Under -- it's not all mixed together as onegroup of export income. Under -- under the statute andregulations Boeing was entitled to group transactions.The -- the problem here is that the regulation th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC that the Government relies on takes huge amounts of R&Dthat are directly related to a specific program andallocates them among all of the programs. QUESTION: But, of course, the converse, Isuppose under your view, all of the R&D would go to thedomestic corporation because it all takes place before theproduct is put on the market.MR. GELLER: No. It doesn't really matterwhether the product is on the market or not, Your Honor. It has to be allocated to a class of gross income. Now,that class of gross income may well include, as it does inthis case, products or programs that aren't yet on themarket that are being developed.QUESTION: Right.MR. GELLER: And nonetheless, the regulations are quite clear that the deductions have to be allocatedto that class of gross income. So, for example, in the program, which wasin -- which was being developed in , there were nosales of the in , and yet there were hundreds ofmillions of dollars of R&D expended in that year. In ourview, the regulations make it quite clear that Boeing hadto allocate those deductions, that R&D and otherdeductions, to the program. QUESTION: Well, what -- what do you say to at th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC least this argument of the Government? I -- I guess theGovernment would probably say, sure, there's -- there's akind of factual sense in which there is the kind ofrelationship that you're talking about. But if you wantthe closest relationship -- the most perfectrelationship -- you would capitalize your R&D and youwould start amortizing it when you actually have a productthat is generating income that you're selling. That wouldbe the closest match you could get. That match, in effect, has -- has been -- hasbeen set aside. Instead of forcing you to do that, thelaw now allows you to -- to use your R&D as -- as acurrent expense.Once you start using it, once you start treatingit as a current expense, that very close relationship that you have, if you had capitalized it, is gone. And whatthe Government is saying is, it's a judgment call howclose it's got to be now, now that you have broken thelink and have allowed current expense. And that kind of ajudgment call is quintessentially the judgment call thatthe -- that the Treasury makes when it's write -- when itwrites regulations. And why isn't that a pretty powerful argument? And if it is, how do you get over the point ofreasonableness or -- or Chevron deference as the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Government would see it? MR. GELLER: Well, Justice Souter, you'vedescribed the Government's position. Let me see if I canrespond to it. But generally, just -- as to the last point --this is not a legislative regulation. There really is noChevron deference that's in play here.QUESTION: Well, there's -- there's -- certainlythere is some degree of deference here. MR. GELLER: There is some degree ofreasonableness.QUESTION: We can argue whether it's Chevron ornot.QUESTION: It was a notice and commentregulation. MR. GELLER: It was, but it was promulgatedunder section . There's no specific provision in thecode that allows the Treasury to issue legislative regshere, but I don't want to get off on that because it --QUESTION: But you -- if it's -- whether youcall it -- if you call it an interpretive regulation --MR. GELLER: Yes. QUESTION: -- it still deserves some respectfrom a court --MR. GELLER: Yes. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: -- does it not? MR. GELLER: Yes, it does but it has to beconsistent, obviously, with the legislative scheme thatit's interpreting. Justice Souter, let me answer your question anumber of different ways. First, it is not at all unique for expenses togive rise to future year income. In fact, most expensesgive rise to future year income. The fact that an expensemay occur in year , and the income may be generated inyear , is a commonplace. It doesn't in any way --QUESTION: Sure they do. MR. GELLER: It --QUESTION: But the most precise way to match it,I -- I would suppose, is the capitalization way. And theGovernment says once you -- once you lose thequintessentially perfect way of doing it, then how you'regoing to recognize it is a judgment call. MR. GELLER: Well, I don't accept -- they can'tcapitalize it, Your Honor, because Congress made ajudgment in section of the code in order to encourageR&D to allow it to be immediately deducted in the year inwhich it's incurred. QUESTION: Absolutely. And they say whenCongress made that judgment, there's a further judgment th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC left and that is the judgment how close has it got to be.MR. GELLER: Yes, but the Government'sregulation here is not close at all. The Governmentconcedes that -- that expenses for R&D give rise to futureyear income. They can't -- because of section , theycan't --QUESTION: Well, sometimes -- sometimes they doand sometimes they don't. I mean, if things work outfine, the answer is yes. If they don't work out fine, theanswer is no. And that's -- that's one of the -- that'sone of the problems that the Government raises. MR. GELLER: Well, look at what the (e)()regulation does, Your Honor. It doesn't make any attemptto match current year R&D expenses with some future incomethat might be generated from that R&D. What it, instead,does, it allocates all of that income to current yearexpenses -- to current year revenues for products thathave no relation whatsoever to that R&D. For example, let me say -- come back again tothe program. QUESTION: Well, here -- may -- may I interruptyou with this question? MR. GELLER: Sure. QUESTION: You say it has no relationwhatsoever. I take it then you are saying that the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Government is simply factually wrong when it makes thestatement that R&D, which may have a closer relation toone product line than another, nonetheless tends, as ageneral rule, to have benefits that go beyond productlines. We -- they -- they, in effect, say, look, youlearn useful things, and you use them all over the place.Are you saying that that is factually wrong?MR. GELLER: Yes. I'm saying that -- that --I'm saying clearly in this case it's factually wrong. Forexample, this case went off on cross motions for summaryjudgment. There was really no dispute that Boeing had --as a factual matter -- allocated the R&D expensescorrectly. As a factual matter. The Government said theyhad to be reallocated because of this conclusivepresumption in section (e)().But, yes, I'm telling you, Justice --Justice Souter, that that's incorrect as a factual matter,that in fact, under section , in order to take adeduction for R&D at all in any circumstance, DISC or noDISC, the taxpayer has to be able to factually relate thatR&D expense to a particular product.QUESTION: Oh, you've got to show therelationship --MR. GELLER: Yes, factual relationship. QUESTION: -- but it doesn't follow from that th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC that there is no benefit to product lines outside of thatrelationship. MR. GELLER: Yes, but if there -- there couldwell be a spill-over benefit to future product lines, butthat doesn't, A, mean that it's not directly and factuallyrelated a specific current program. And also, look at the oddity and anomaly of theGovernment's position here, Justice Souter. Even if itis -- there is some spill-over effect for future productlines, when the Government -- when the -- when Boeing wasdeveloping the , it's conceivable that they werelearning things that would benefit future products. Butwhat the Government does is take all that R&D and allocateit to existing products, sales of existing products thatcouldn't possibly have benefitted from that R&D. QUESTION: That's so. But could -- I'd likevery much to hear your response to Justice Kennedy'squestion. Was it -- and where we started was with JusticeScalia and Justice Kennedy. And as I understand wherethey were driving, there is a statute, and the statute isDISC. And under this statute, there's either somelanguage, or there's some history anyway, which is ofinterest to me, which says when you work out theallocation rules, follow section -- or . MR. GELLER: . th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: , which is for allocation of allkinds of things --MR. GELLER: Well --QUESTION: -- for Puerto Rico, to abroad,et cetera. So now we look to . MR. GELLER: But --QUESTION: And lo and behold, what they did in, after DISC was passed, is they changed the rules,and in those changed rules, it says you're going toallocate everything to a SIC category calledtransportation services. And then it has a littlesentence here. The taxpayer may not subdivide thecategories in this list. MR. GELLER: Yes. QUESTION: All right? So that's their rule.MR. GELLER: That's -- that is the --QUESTION: All right. Now, what legally iswrong with that --MR. GELLER: What's legally --QUESTION: -- since Congress told them to use, and here they're using it. MR. GELLER: Well -- well, there are a number ofthings wrong with that, Justice Breyer. The first is, asyou yourself pointed out. At the time Congress made this th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC cross-reference, at the time the legislative history saidthat the rules under would be followed, and at thetime the regs were issued in that cross-referenced, this (e)() rule, which is an aberrational rule,doesn't follow the general guidelines of the rules. It was not even in the regulation. QUESTION: That's right. In respect to that,for you to win on that, we'd have to say that Congressintended that the rules be different for DISC's than forPuerto Rico, for Europe, for Saudi Arabia --MR. GELLER: Oh, absolutely. Absolutely.QUESTION: -- for everything. Or we'd have tosay that we're throwing out this reg for everything.MR. GELLER: No, no, no. The reg has many otherapplications, and we're not suggesting that it be --QUESTION: So you're saying DISC has to bedifferent. MR. GELLER: I'm saying DISC is different,Justice Breyer. QUESTION: Okay, what in --MR. GELLER: And let me explain, if I could --QUESTION: Yes. That's what I wanted to --MR. GELLER: -- why DISC is different. QUESTION: That's -- we are. I -- all right.MR. GELLER: DISC is different because -- for th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC two reasons. One is, DISC provides preferential taxbenefits to a -- to a subclass of net income, export netincome. It is critically important to have an accuratecalculation of what the export net income is. You cannothave an accurate calculation of the net income from salesof s if you're going to start with the gross revenuesfrom the sale of s, and then you're going to deductfrom it expenses that have no factual relationship tos. You inevitably are going to be left with anerroneous net income calculation. Now, I want to also add that this was focused onin and when the Treasury was issuing its DISCregulations. In , Treasury issued proposedregulations under that specifically said how R&D wasgoing to be -- was going to be allocated in the context of a DISC. They gave an example, which is identical to theexample of this case. It was an example involving amanufacturer that manufactured four-, six-, and eight-cylinder engines. Each was grouped as a separate productline, as it was entitled to be --QUESTION: I'll assume the example wasidentical. MR. GELLER: It is identical. QUESTION: And I will take your words that youhave just said. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. GELLER: Yes. QUESTION: And I will ask you why a differentperson quoting those words couldn't make the identicalargument in respect to the tremendous tax advantages givento Puerto Rico --MR. GELLER: Because --QUESTION: -- or in respect to the supremeimportance of having allocation between Europe and theUnited States among subsidiaries --MR. GELLER: You'd have to look -- you'd have tolook --QUESTION: -- and principal corporations beaccurate. MR. GELLER: You'd have to look at thosestatutes. It may well be that (e)() couldn't be applied there at all if it would lead inevitably to an incorrectcalculation of -- of that net income. But there's something in addition here, YourHonor. Two things in addition. First, Justice Breyer,the regulations do not incorporate verbatim all ofthese rules. They don't incorporate (e)(). Theydon't incorporate -- they say that the allocations to bemade under section are to be done generally inaccordance with the rules under . At the time that that was put in the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC regulations, the rules under unequivocally providedthat there had to be, for every allocation, a directfactual relationship between the expenditure --QUESTION: Yes, but that doesn't mean when --you say in accordance with . Does -- does that mean asit now exists, or --MR. GELLER: Yes.QUESTION: -- as it may be amended from --or, you know --MR. GELLER: I --QUESTION: -- as it may be interpreted from timeto time by -- by --MR. GELLER: Not -- not --QUESTION: -- by Treasury?MR. GELLER: I believe, Justice Scalia, not if an aberrational -- not if a rule could be put in severalyears later that's inconsistent with the rules that thetax-writing committees and that the Treasury Departmentassumed --QUESTION: But that --MR. GELLER: -- would be the rules.QUESTION: That's a different argument. That --MR. GELLER: That excepts --QUESTION: What I'm saying is it doesn't seem tome, even if you believed in -- in legislative history, you th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC can't rely on the fact that they say it's going to be donepursuant to . The Government says, we are doing itpursuant to .MR. GELLER: But not pursuant to the rules. This is -- if you look, in fact, at the (e)()regulation, Justice Scalia, it begins by explaining whyit's deviating from the general rules of , why it feltthe need for R&D to deviate from the general rules thatrequire a factual connection between expenditures andrevenues. Now, there's another -- there's --QUESTION: If you -- if you want me to say thata regulation drawn after a statute was enacted, anotherstatute, is -- is invalid because the intervening statuteis -- is applicable instead, what -- what case do I cite, or what rule? Is -- is the rule just that the specificcontrols over the general? I mean, is that all we'retalking about? MR. GELLER: It is. It is certainly thespecific controls over the general. It is also the factthat there was a regime here that requires a -- accuratecalculation of export income. The rules that werepromulgated in did that. An aberrational rule wasput in in which we say is inconsistent with theaccurate calculation of net income and can't be applied, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC at least in this context. But there's another reason, Justice Kennedy, whythe (e)() regulation is inconsistent with DISC, andthat's the grouping regulations, which I want to call yourattention to, which is a very, very important part of theDISC statute. If I could call the Court's attention to thegrouping regulations which appear at -- at (c)(),which is the bottom of page a of the appendix to thepetition, you will see that the -- the taxpayer wasentitled to group its products, to figure out exportincome not in gross, but on the basis of each product orrecognized product line, which is what Boeing did here.And if the Court would look at ()(iv) in themiddle of page a, you'll see that the regulations provide that the taxpayer's choice as to how to group iscontrolling -- controlling. And the regulations go on tosay that costs deductible in a particular year shall beallocated and apportioned to the classes of gross incomeresulting from such grouping.QUESTION: Now -- now, perhaps you can help mehere because this is a complicated statute. Is theGovernment going to answer that, of -- of course, thatis -- is controlling, but that is only for the purpose ofone of the three -- of -- of one of the three choices that th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC it makes in -- and -- and it's made the choice to have thecombined income?MR. GELLER: Yes, that's the Government'sargument. But it's completely inconsistent with the wordsof the regulations, Justice Kennedy. The regulations saythat all of the determinations under (c) have to be madeconsistent with the grouping, including the allocation ofdeductions. So --QUESTION: And where -- where does it say that?MR. GELLER: It says it in the language that Ijust read to you, that the -- all -- that the costsdeductible in a taxable year shall be allocated to theitems of gross income resulting from such grouping. So, here, Boeing grouped its -- its classes ofgross income --QUESTION: Where were you reading from,Mr. Geller? I'd like to follow. MR. GELLER: Excuse me. Yes. QUESTION: What were you reading from?MR. GELLER: I'm reading -- I'm reading in themiddle of page , Justice Stevens, the (iv), theparagraph --QUESTION: Oh, number iv, okay. MR. GELLER: -- which talks about how costs areto be allocated after the taxpayer has chosen particular th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC groupings. QUESTION: These are the regulations --MR. GELLER: Under DISC.QUESTION: -- under the DISC scheme. MR. GELLER: That's right. QUESTION: Correct?MR. GELLER: That's exactly right, JusticeO'Connor. QUESTION: And this is how Treasury initiallythought the DISC scheme should be --MR. GELLER: There's -- there's nothing inthis --QUESTION: And you're reading under (iii)? Sub (iii)?MR. GELLER: I'm reading -- sub (iv), (iv). QUESTION: Sub (iv). MR. GELLER: (iv), Justice Kennedy. This iscrucial. And if you look at the Eighth Circuit's decisionin St. Jude, this is one of the provisions that itreferred to as -- as showing that (e)() is completelyinconsistent with the --QUESTION: But the problem is then along comeregulations under the general provision governing R&Dexpenses, and they don't track each other. So how is it th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC that we --MR. GELLER: You have inconsistent --QUESTION: -- don't defer to the TreasuryDepartment interpretation? That's the sticking point forme. MR. GELLER: Well, Justice --QUESTION: We owe some kind of deference. MR. GELLER: I appreciate that, JusticeO'Connor. You don't defer, I think, for several reasons.First, the language of the statute -- it'scritical to determine an accurate calculation of exportnet income. The (e)() regulation provides conclusivepresumptions in place of factual matching so that itinevitably will lead to an incorrect -- and secondly, as Isaid, the -- it was the understanding of everyone, including the Treasury Department when it issued the DISCregulations in , that the taxpayer's choice ofgrouping would be controlling, that -- that allocations ofdeductions, including R&D deductions, would be -- be madeon the -- on the basis of the taxpayer's grouping. Andwhen (e)() comes in, it says, no, no, no. For R&D --QUESTION: Mr. Geller, on that point doesn't theword grouping, the last word in subparagraph (iv), referto the three choices in subparagraph (vi) of the -- on --on page a? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. GELLER: No, no, no. I think it refers tothe -- to the choices that are to be made in paragraph(vii) at the bottom of page a, and the top of a.The groupings are -- you can -- you candetermine CTI, Justice Stevens, either on the basis ofeach individual transaction, which would be very, verycumbersome. Congress understood that and thereforeexpected that there would be grouping. The taxpayer isentitled to choose two different ways to group itstransactions. One is by recognized product line -- whichis what Boeing did here, the s, the s, therecognized product lines -- or basis of SIC code. Boeingcould have chosen to group its transactions by SIC code. It chose not to do that.And nonetheless, the (e)() regulation comes in and insists that although all other deductions can be madeon the basis of the product groupings chosen by Boeing,which the regulations say are to be controlling, this oneclass of deductions, R&D, has to be allocated on the basisof SIC code. And that's completely inconsistent with thestatement in the middle of page a that we were talkingabout that says that all of the deductions are to beallocated on the basis of the taxpayer's grouping, andthat that grouping is, in the words of the regulation,controlling. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: Mr. Geller, I don't want to eat upyour -- your rebuttal time. MR. GELLER: That's all right. QUESTION: But -- but the Government is going tocome back and say, look it, if you did it transaction-by-transaction, we would apply our normal rule under .MR. GELLER: If you did a --QUESTION: You say it's a lot different. MR. GELLER: I think the -- actually --QUESTION: Would that be correct if they did --MR. GELLER: No, no. It would actually help ourargument. If you did it transaction-by-transaction, youtook an individual sale of a --QUESTION: Right. MR. GELLER: -- airplane and you tried to figure out what the export net income was from that sale, itseems to me you would start with the cost of the -- of therevenues generated by the sale of that single airplane,and then you would try to figure out what costs wereincurred in producing that airplane, including the R&Dcosts. You would never, I think, take costs that wereincurred that year in trying to develop a airplane,which had no relationship whatsoever to the sale ofthat , and attribute those costs to it in order toreduce the net income. That's what the (e)() regulation th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC does.If the Court has no further questions, I'd liketo reserve the balance of my time for rebuttal. Thankyou. it --QUESTION: Mr. Jones. ORAL ARGUMENT OF KENT L. JONESON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTMR. JONES: Thank you, Justice Stevens, and mayQUESTION: Mr. Jones, before I lose the threadof -- my thread of thought, is it correct what Mr. Gellerjust said, that if it was done transaction-by-transaction,you would not use the same -- the same allocation basisthat you're using here?MR. JONES: No. If it were done on a transactional basis, which is the -- the base caseprovision under DISC, regs would tell us how toallocate costs to the income from that transaction.And what -- I mean, really the -- the firstpoint of departure that Mr. Geller made from the statuteis that he suggests that only costs -- or that any -- thecosts must be factually related to an item of income to beset off against it. But that's not the statutorystandard.QUESTION: Well, this is kind of simplistic, but th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC it does seem that in -- in the s, Congress wanted toencourage exports, and to do that, they thought theyshould make some income tax advantages for companiesproducing products for export. And that involved allowinggrouping of products and favorable income tax treatmentwhich, if you didn't have the -- the regulations onR&D, would allow the taxpayer to do what the petitioner isarguing here. So, it seems to me the argument is that the -regs are just so contrary to DISC that they shouldn'tgovern and don't govern. Is that the thrust of it?MR. JONES: Oh, clearly that's not the case. The regs were -- were formulated for the purpose ofdetermining combined taxable income for DISCs and FSCs. That's what Congress -- that's what the committee said they wanted the Secretary to do under the DISC, and that'swhat the -- if you look at (f)()(iii), it saysthat expressly. So --QUESTION: But applies generally, doesn'tit, not just to DISCs? MR. JONES: It -- it applies generally, but itwas specifically formulated with the calculation ofcombined taxable income for DISC in mind. And so it's --it's illogical to suggest, as -- as they do --QUESTION: The statute was, or the reg -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: You mean the reg? MR. JONES: I'm sorry. I meant the reg. The- reg was -- was formulated with the calculation ofcombined taxable income expressly in mind, and we knowthat both by the terms of the reg -(f) --QUESTION: Well, how do we know that?QUESTION: Getting back to Justice Scalia'squestion, and I think it relates to what Justice O'Connoris asking too, is -- is your answer to the last argument,that a transaction-by-transaction basis -- we would --would clearly not have this problem -- is we clearly wouldhave this problem and we'd look at , and you'd losethere too? Or is that not your answer? MR. JONES: Well, that's one way of making thepoint, but let me -- let me address directly --QUESTION: No, no. I want to know what yourposition is.MR. JONES: Well, my position is they've totallymisdescribed the grouping provision of the DISC regs, andonce you understand it, you will appreciate that the -regs apply to all of these transactions. And you can --you can see that by looking at only two pieces of the DISCregs. The DISC regs, at page a in the middle of thepage, says, grouping of transactions for purposes of th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC applying the pricing method is provided by (c)(). So,you group to decide what your pricing method is, and ifthey choose the -- the combined taxable income method,which they've done here, then you go to (c)(), which isback on page a. (c)() says here's how you determine combinedtaxable income. You take the income. You deduct thecosts of goods sold, and then you allocate underprovisions of -- of section regs. And then theprovision that Mr. Geller cites says -- is the (iv)provision, which says you that allocate the costs to theitems of income resulting from the group. That's what thegrouping does. It groups the income, and then againstthat income, we apply the costs allocated under thesection - regs. It is --QUESTION: Where is -- where that's lastlanguage I'm looking for? It's on --MR. JONES: It's of the petition appendix.QUESTION: a, yes. MR. JONES: It's the last phrase of the -- ofthe item (iv), and it says that we allocate costs to theincome resulting from the grouping. Now, that's what thegrouping is all about. They're allowed to pick out aseries of transactions, group the income, calculate theCTI for the group, so they don't have to file a separate th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC report for a thousand different transactions. That's allthat the grouping is about.Now, that's been the Secretary's interpretationof his own regulations for years. And of course, underthis Court's precedents, his interpretation of his ownregulations is entitled to controlling weight unless it'sinconsistent with the provisions of the text of the regs. And as the Tax Court explained in the St. Jude case, andas I have just described, the text of the reg says youallocate under to the income resulting from thegrouping.QUESTION: All right, that's fine. But he saysthat -- and what you're supposed to do is you're supposedto, I guess, subtract the costs which are allocated to theitems of gross income in that group. Is that what you're supposed to do? You take the gross receipts in thatgroup --group --MR. JONES: You take the gross receipts for thatQUESTION: -- and you subtract the costs. MR. JONES: -- and then you allocate costs --QUESTION: Yes.MR. JONES: -- under . QUESTION: Right. Now, you allocate themunder . th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. JONES: Right.QUESTION: So we go to --MR. JONES: Right.QUESTION: -- and he says, now, if you look at, and try to allocate according to to the groupthat they've picked out, it's seriously nuts, basically.I mean, imagine that you had a farmer and thefarmer raised roses, and he had some fishes, and -- andwhat he has is he does research on fish diseases. And hesays -- you'd say, well, my goodness, you're going toallocate his whole laboratory costs which does nothing butfish diseases to the growing of roses because both arefarming or fisheries.Now, is it -- something like that is really outof whack, it makes so little sense that that isn't a reasonable method of allocation under anybody's theory.MR. JONES: That's -- that's a fair synopsis oftheir position, and -- and the defects in it --QUESTION: Right.QUESTION: So why is it reasonable to allocatethe fish disease research to rose culture? MR. JONES: Well, let me start with what theSecretary was supposed to do in the regs, and get to youthe answer to your question. The -- the statute on which the regs are adopted th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC doesn't just say you allocate the costs that aredefinitely related to the product in determining whatcosts would be charged against it. It also says youallocate to it a share of costs that cannot definitely beallocated to any particular item of income. Now, when the conundrum for research costs --and the reason that we have a separate regulation for itis that there's more than one way that research costs aretreated under the code. When research costs arecapitalized and amortized over their useful life, they'rethen properly attributed -- as this Court said inINDOPCO -- to the revenues as they're received. But whenthe taxpayer makes the election that section gives itto take a current deduction, it severs any relationshipbetween the costs and the income. There is a mismatching, as we say. There is no proper connection between thecosts and the income. Now, the reason that we need to -- the -- the --in that case where there is no definite relationshipbetween the costs and the income, the default principle ofthe statute is that the costs are to be allocated over allincome of the taxpayer, not just the income from anyspecific product, but the income from --QUESTION: He'll grant you all that. He grantsthat. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. JONES: No --QUESTION: But he says, you know, sometimes itis clear. For example, it is clear that roses don't getfish diseases, and similarly, he says, it is equally clearthat -- I don't know the factual details, but he says it'sequally clear that a research is not as vague as a --is -- is different from a . Just the same -- roses andfish diseases. And he says where it's that clear, it'snot reasonable for the Treasury to try to pretend thatit's vague or hard to allocate, et cetera.MR. JONES: The -- a reason why the regulationis reasonable is because if, as I have just said, thestatutory default cases -- you can apply it against allincome. What the Secretary has said is, well, I'm notgoing to make you apply it against all income. I'm goingto make you apply it only against a subcategory of income,in this case, the income associated with sales of aproduct from which foreign sales income might be derived.QUESTION: Yes, but you use this link -- thisseverance argument, and you say, oh, well, once you dothis, you sever the expense from the future income. I would have thought -- please correct me if I'm wrong --that all expenses are -- are severed in the sense that allexpenses can be used for future income.MR. JONES: No. That's a -- that's a fallacy th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC in -- in the suggestion of Mr. Geller that mismatchingoccurs all the time. It's very rare for mismatching to betolerated. For example, if a taxpayer spends $ buildinga widget in year , and sells the widget in year , the$ he spent in year isn't mismatched. It's put in theinventory costs. It's charged as a component of the costsof goods sold in year , when the item is sold. The codeis -- and the Secretary is very thorough about routinelyrequiring matching of expenses. This is an exceptional situation created by theCongress allowing the current deduction, but as JusticeSouter pointed out, allowing the current deduction forresearch doesn't mean that that's -- that Congress decidedit was definitely related when it was taken. It clearlyisn't definitely related. And so my -- my point was that if it would havebeen reasonable for the Secretary to just do what thestatute says, which is we'll apply it against all income,it's more reasonable, the Secretary decided, to apply itagainst a smaller category. And then -- and then or years later, the Secretary decided it was even morereasonable to -- to apply it against a somewhat narrowercategory, and we got down to SIC code .Well, these are all alternatives, each of whichis reasonable. They're more reasonable than the statutory th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC default case, the Secretary decided. QUESTION: Under code , would there be anydifference? It was still transportation equipment as acategory. MR. JONES: For Boeing, we can go all the way toSIC code category , which is planes and parts. I mean,this -- this issue is sort of abstract in this casebecause whatever, you know, objective test the Secretaryhad used, it would result in the same in -- in this case.QUESTION: Where does the statute say you couldjust apply it across the board? By -- the statute in that I have just refers to percent of the combinedtaxable income, and that doesn't define --MR. JONES: I'm talking about section , whichis at page a of the petition appendix. QUESTION: a, yes.MR. JONES: And subpart -- part (b) in themiddle says that you allocate a ratable part. It sayspar, but I think that's ratable part of expenses whichcannot definitely be allocated to some item or class ofgross income. So you -- and you -- you would under thedefault case make that allocation across all items ofincome. QUESTION: Well, his argument is that it can --that -- that the research on fish can definitely be th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC allocated to fish. MR. JONES: If -- if it's currently deducted, itcannot be definitely allocated to an item of income. Yousee, petitioner just takes two words out of the statuteand changes them. The statute says you allocate coststhat cannot be definitely allocated to an item of income. And he says, well, we allocate costs that are factuallyrelated to a product. Well, that's not what the statuteeither says, or is about. We allocate costs to income notto products.Now, the --QUESTION: It says item or class of grossMR. JONES: Right. QUESTION: What is -- what is class of gross income.income?MR. JONES: Well, for example, if they groupproducts, they -- they group all the sales of Boeing s. Then you allocate the costs to that group based on thecosts that can be directly allocated.QUESTION: For that year.MR. JONES: -- and they share --QUESTION: You're saying it has to be that year.MR. JONES: Yes, and a share of the costs thatcannot be directly allocated to an item -- to any item of th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC income.Now, this -- the reasonableness of this -- ofthe Secretary's approach is especially clear in light ofthe alternatives that he faced. If he had adopted the --the position that petitioner prefers, the result would bethat petitioner would claim an expense against a productthat was going to be built and sold some other time, andnever charge that expense against that product when it'ssold. Now, the obvious and unimpeachable result ofthat is they overstate their foreign sales income. And inthis case, they do it by $ billion over the period that'sat stake. They overstate their foreign source income,which has the direct consequence of overstating the -- theDISC and FSC benefits that they calculate based on that amount of combined taxable income.QUESTION: But isn't it true, just going back toJustice O'Connor's thought, that -- that theconsequence -- the Government's position is that allresearch and development cost gets allocated to the DISCwhen you're in a business like they are?MR. JONES: I think that's -- I don't understandthe factual context of that statement, but the -- theanswer is all research costs, like every other type ofcost gets charged against the income -- against foreign th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC sales income to the extent that --QUESTION: Proportionately.MR. JONES: Proportionally, yes, thank you. Pro rata if it's not current -- you know, if it'scurrently claimed and not capitalized and amortized.If it's capitalized and amortized -- I shouldjust point out because it's -- it is a factual point thatis worth knowing. If it's capitalized and amortized, thenthe costs are recovered as part of the cost of goodssold --QUESTION: No. I -- I understand thedistinction between capitalizing it and -- and taking itin the current year. But it seems to me that -- thatthe -- the net result of the Government's approach isthat -- that all of the -- all of the research and development expense of the company would be attributableto the DISC.MR. JONES: It would just be attributable tothe -- to -- well, I mean --QUESTION: If -- if the DISC is percent ofits sales --MR. JONES: If all --QUESTION: -- percent of its R&D --MR. JONES: Correct. If all the sales were DISCsales, then -- then you would be right. But if -- if some th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC portion of the sales were domestic, which is certainly thecase with Boeing, then that portion would be allocated tothat portion of the income. I mean, this pro rataallocation that I've been talking about, that what you'reallocating between is the sales that the DISC makes andthe sales that the DISC doesn't make.QUESTION: What are the -- just out ofcuriosity, what are the rough proportions of -- ofoverseas and domestic sales? MR. JONES: I believe the record says somethinglike two-thirds of Boeing's sales during this whole-year period were overseas and, therefore, I assume,made through the DISC. QUESTION: But just as a housekeeping matter, ifBoeing were to prevail here, would it still be open for the Government to say, well, all right, you can allocatealong your product lines, but the Blue Sky portion stillhas to be greatly increased? MR. JONES: You mean, would it be open at thisstage --QUESTION: I think I've got the right color. The Red Sky and the Blue Sky. The Blue Sky is thegeneral. Correct? MR. JONES: Yes. At this stage of --QUESTION: And that was about some percent. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC If -- if the -- if Boeing prevails, can you still go backand say, okay, you get the product line, but you've got toadd another , percent to the Blue Sky?MR. JONES: I hate to make a concession that I'mnot percent certain -- certain about, but --especially since, you know, it -- it could be ofimportance. I do not believe that issue is open, butit -- but if it were, I would reserve our right to addressthat. But I don't -- I don't know exactly how it would beopen.QUESTION: Mr. Jones, I thought -- maybe I'mconfused, but I thought the Government's position was BlueSky, product-specific -- this is R&D and we treat R&D acertain way and we don't buy into that line, which is setby the company.MR. JONES: Oh, I agree completely, but -- but Iunderstood Justice Kennedy to be saying that if the Courtadopted Boeing's approach, would there then be a factualquestion about what part -- whether the Blue Sky amountwas accurately described in the record. And I just don'tknow for certain. My assumption is that that's not stillopen. QUESTION: Is -- is it open as to -- supposethe -- you were to say the following. Where a taxpayercan show that a particular R&D expense can be definitely th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC allocated to some item or class of gross income, otherthan the DISC class in this situation or whatever, wherethey can show that, then the commissioner cannot requirethem to allocate it to a different item.MR. JONES: Well, it -- I --QUESTION: That would be just taking the wordsof the statute. Now, suppose you said that. MR. JONES: It sounds -- it sounds like youcorrectly described the statute, and let me point out thatif they, for example, did their fish research or whateverit was --QUESTION: Yes. MR. JONES: -- and they capitalized andamortized it to the -- to the appropriate products andcharged it, then -- then they would be entitled to --QUESTION: So -- so that's what -- that's what Ifind difficult to reconcile with the -- - -- whatis it called? It's - --MR. JONES: (e) --QUESTION: -- () --MR. JONES: ()(i).QUESTION: -- et cetera -- sentence which saysbut you have to use two-digit SIC categories becauseI think they're so broad, those categories, that it shouldbe possible, like my fish example, to find instances where th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC you could. And why aren't they in that category?MR. JONES: First, it only -- that only appliesif they're deducted under . So -- so we've narrowedthe issue that much. And when they're deducted under ,as I've said, there were a series of reasonablealternatives facing the Secretary based from the statutorydefault case that you allocated across all income. Now, the reason I keep stressing that point isbecause this Court's decisions are very clear that theCourt, especially in the context of Treasury regulations,doesn't sit here to decide the wisdom of the particularrule chosen. It only -- in the words of Correll -- looksto see whether some reasonable method was applied, notwhether this was the best one, or the most logical --QUESTION: Yes, but it seems to me that what you're doing is -- is quarreling with the decisionCongress made under . Congress said R&D is inherentlysomething that ought to be capitalized, but we think it'sso important, it's going to be expensed. And you keepsaying that, well, you know, really it can't be expensed. We're going to, in effect, make them capitalize it anyway. That -- that's --MR. JONES: No. We're -- we're not making themcapitalize it. I mean, I would cite, really, myexplanation of that as Justice Souter's question earlier, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC that -- which is that the -- the decision to allow thiscurrent deduction is effective in determining taxableincome for domestic purposes. We don't dispute thatthere's a deduction, but I'll point out -- the merefact there's a deduction doesn't tell you how to allocateit. And the -- says that if the deduction is notdefinitely related to some item of income, then you chargeit against all the items of income.QUESTION: Can -- can I come back to the BlueSky expenses? A question that was asked earlier caused meto question my understanding of the case. As I understand it, Boeing is willing to accepta ratable portion of the Blue -- Blue Sky expenses in itsDISC. Right? MR. JONES: Yes. They actually want to --QUESTION: Just a -- what it -- what it'sobjecting to is -- is those expenses that -- you know,that -- that go to fish research, those expenses that areidentifiable to a particular category.MR. JONES: Just to elaborate, that go to fishresearch that that -- that were deducted currently ratherthan amortized over the proper future income. That's --that's what this case is really all about is thispeculiarity --QUESTION: But that's the whole scheme that th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Congress passed in the 's to try to encourage exports. So it just -- the interpretation of in the regs seemsto go somewhat contrary to the overall purpose of thescheme for DISCs. MR. JONES: Several -- several courts havecorrectly said that the purpose of the -- of the combinedtaxable income calculation is to serve as a limit on theDISC and FSC benefits. Congress didn't intend unlimitedbenefits. They didn't intend to allow benefits of thetype that Boeing is seeking where they inflate theirforeign source income by not -- not putting the costsagainst that income in calculating it. And so, the answer to your question is no. TheSecretary's rule is designed to accomplish the correct, inthe Secretary's view, determination of combined taxable income for this very purpose. Now, it -- I think that -- that the issuethat -- that may actually be the one the Court wants toconsider first is that in , when Congress enacted theFSC provision, it -- it in our view ratified and adoptedthe very cost -- research cost allocation regulation thatwe have in this case. In -- in the Deficit Reduction Actof , there are two provisions that relate to thiscase. Congress adopted -- enacted the FSC which, ofcourse, is based on the provisions of the DISC, and -- and th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC it also contains the combined taxable income method oflimiting the -- the benefit. And -- and at the same timethat they adopted the FSC, they enacted a provision thattook one piece of this regulation out and suspended it. That's the piece called geographic sourcing. That, forpurposes of citation, is .-(e)()(ii). This case is about .-(e)()(i), which isthe rule that calculates combined taxable income. Andwhen Congress took out -- said we're going to suspend thisgeographic sourcing rule in this regulation, they said,we're not suspending this regulation for application incalculating combined taxable income for DISCs and FSCs.Well, under this Court's decision inLorillard v. Pons, that is a ratification and adoption ofthe regulation. The Court made the point in Lorillard that when a --QUESTION: Can I -- Mr. Jones, can I go back forjust a second -- and be sure I understand somethingright -- to the fish/roses hypothetical? Am I correct inassuming that the fishes -- the research on the fisheswould be charged to the DISC only if fishes and roses werein the same SIC grouping?MR. JONES: Under any scenario, that's correct.QUESTION: Oh. So if they're in a differentgrouping, then the rose farmer wouldn't have to pay for th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC the fish research. MR. JONES: That's correct. I was assuming youcarefully constructed your question. QUESTION: But the -- but the grouping can be asbroad as -- as transportation equipment. MR. JONES: It can be quite broad.QUESTION: That's a pretty broad group.MR. JONES: It can be quite broad. But thepoint is that it's not --QUESTION: And it includes, by the way,agriculture, forestry, and fisheries. That's onecategory. (Laughter.) MR. JONES: It's not -- it's -- the point isit's not as broad as the statutory default rule. Thestatutory default rule is by definition reasonable, andthe -- the narrower rule that the -- that the --QUESTION: You've lost me. The statutorydefault rule --MR. JONES: Is that you apply these costsagainst all items of income because they're not definitelyrelated to an item of income. That's the statutorydefault principle. QUESTION: Where is that?MR. JONES: That's in (b) at page a of the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC petition appendix. It says that --QUESTION: Got you. MR. JONES: Okay.Now, on the ratification point, Lorillard v.Pons makes the point that when Congress enacts a statutethat's based upon a -- a prior -- the provisions of aprior act, it is assumed to have adopted the -- theadministrative interpretation. Now, that's not a -- byitself an overpowering presumption, but what Lorillardpointed out was that when Congress, in doing that, looksat the agency's interpretation and excised a portion ofit, the inference that it approved the remaining part isvery strong.Now, here, it's strong not only because of thatinference, but because Congress said -- I'm sorry -- the committee that made this amendment said that they --although they were excising this part about geographicsourcing, that the part about combined taxable incomecalculations for DISCs and FSCs would remain in effect.Now, petitioner says, but years later Congressdid something that somehow negates at that ratification. Well, of course, the sub -- Congress can't change the lawas ratified, but that's not what happened in ' in anyevent. What happened in ' was that the -- the committeewhat was -- that was removing the suspension of the -- on th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC the geographic sourcing rule said that we're not sayingwhether the regulation is valid or not. Well, theregulation that they were talking about was the geographicsourcing rule. Petitioner says, well, they were talkingabout the whole rule. No. They were talking about thegeographic sourcing rule as we know from the last part ofthat same report which says that nothing in this act hasanything to do with the use of these -- of the -- of theresearch cost allocation regulations for calculatingCTI -- combined taxable income -- for DISC and FSCpurposes.QUESTION: Correct me if I'm wrong. In thecourt of appeals opinion -- and it's the paragraph at(a). I think you'll be familiar with this one, wherethe court of appeals said, the more narrowly a taxpayer chooses to define incomes, the more costs becomeindirectly or indefinitely related. Can I be excused fromtrying to understand that, or --(Laughter.) MR. JONES: Well, I can try to help, but I'm --I can't promise results. It -- it looked to me like whatthey had in mind was the thought that this -- that ataxpayer who says my research only relates to wing nutson -- on this plane is -- is defining it so narrowly thatit's not realistic. And -- and indeed, the record of this th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC case reflects that -- that research on one type of planehas applications on other types of planes. And -- and Ithink what the court was addressing there was his viewthat -- that this was an appropriate accommodation. Thiswas one of the choices that the Secretary had. It was areasonable choice. QUESTION: It really was restating the problemrather than offering a specific solution.MR. JONES: I think it was restating the problemin a way that indicated it felt that the Secretary'schoice was a reasonable one. QUESTION: Mr. Jones, can you tell us thiscontinuing significance of this arrangement? I -- we'renow past the successor of the FSC. Is that true?MR. JONES: Yes. The FSC is no longer with us. It was replaced by the extraterritorial incomeprovisions -- maybe in '. I'm not sure. QUESTION: What about the two-digit SIC? Isthat still with --MR. JONES: Two-digit is -- it was replaced bythe -- the narrower three-digit band in ', I believe.QUESTION: So if we thought the two-digit was alittle bit going too far, would that throw open all kindsof claims on the -- on the -- from all kinds of people? MR. JONES: Well, I mean, again, if the Court th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC wanted -- felt it needed to look at the two-digit versusthree-digit, although to me they're just, you know,spectrums along the --QUESTION: The degree of specificity -- well, atleast three-digit would separate the roses from the fish.MR. JONES: This case really doesn't present thequestion --QUESTION: It doesn't. MR. JONES: -- because, as I said, there'sjust -- is -- there's no question that Boeing goes all theway to SIC . And so if the standard is are the productsreasonably related, which -- which is --QUESTION: So we don't have to consider it. Allwe'd have to --MR. JONES: I don't think you have to consider it, but if you did, I think you would do it in the contextof realizing these are reasonable alternatives, and thatthe Secretary didn't have to pick the best one. He justhad to pick one of them. And I -- if you thought thatnone of these were reasonable, then -- then, you know, itwouldn't matter which one he picked.QUESTION: At some point they certainly --MR. JONES: If there are no further questions,thank you. QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. Jones. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Mr. Geller, you have a little over minutesleft. REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF KENNETH S. GELLERON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERMR. GELLER: So much to say. Justice Kennedy, I think you put your heart onthe -- on the Government's -- the -- the problem with theGovernment's position here. It's simply an unwillingnessto accept the fact that Congress created a number ofincentives here that were not designed simply to raiserevenue. They had other purposes such as the export --the -- the beneficial treatment of export income and alsothe immediate deductibility of -- of R&D. Now, the Government tries to defend thisregulation here on the -- on the basis that there's this temporal mismatch and it's all the result of notcapitalizing. I should say a number of things about that.First, this was not the basis for the regulationat the time the regulation was issued. It was not thebasis for defending this regulation in the lower courts. And it -- and the Government's position is not evenconsistent with that regulation because if the wholeproblem here is the lack of a temporal mismatch, you wouldthink that if you had a class of gross income in which ina particular year there was both revenues and R&D th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC expenses, well, in that situation there's no temporalmismatch. They would at least allow you to allocate thoseR&D expenses to that revenue in that year. No. Even ifthere's revenue in a class of gross income in a particularyear, they still insist that those R&D expenses be spreadacross all of the income in that SIC code.Now, I want to mention St. Jude, because in thiscase we're dealing with airplanes and airplanes, and whilethe -- the costs are specifically allocated only toparticular programs, it gets a little more complicated.But look at St. Jude. In St. Jude, you had amanufacturer who was exporting artificial heart valves. That's all it was doing, is manufacturing and exportingartificial heart valves. In the same year, it wasengaging in R&D for insulin pumps, and for pacemakers. The Government insisted that the export income from thesale of those heart valves be reduced, and that the DISCbenefit be reduced because of the R&D spent on these otherproducts that obviously had no basis or relevance to thesale of the heart valve simply because they were allwithin the broad -- same broad SIC code.And I should say, Justice Kennedy, the NinthCircuit's opinion I think is somewhat unintelligible. The -- the part that you -- you referred to, we allstumbled over because it makes no sense. The more th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC narrowly -- the more narrowly you define your classes ofgross income, the more that -- that costs will be directlyallocated to more than one class of income. It's not aquestion of anything being indirectly allocated. And there's no default rule at issue here eitherbecause all of our costs are directly allocable tospecific programs. That's all we ask that we be allowedto do. We ask that the judgment in the Ninth Circuit bereversed. Thank you. JUSTICE STEVENS: Thank you, Mr. Geller.The case is submitted.(Whereupon, at : a.m., the case in theabove-entitled matter was submitted.) th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC 