 IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XYELLOW TRANSPORTATION, INC., :Petitioner :v. : No. -MICHIGAN, ET AL. :- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XWashington, D.C.Monday, October , The above-entitled matter came on for oralargument before the Supreme Court of the United States at: a.m.APPEARANCES:CHARLES A. ROTHFELD, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf ofthe Petitioner.AUSTIN C. SCHLICK, ESQ., Assistant to the SolicitorGeneral, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; onbehalf of the United States, as amicus curiae,supporting the Petitioner. THOMAS L. CASEY, ESQ., Solicitor General of Michigan; Lansing, Michigan; on behalf of the Respondents. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC C O N T E N T SORAL ARGUMENT OF CHARLES A. ROTHFELD, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioner AUSTIN C. SCHLICK, ESQ.On behalf of the United States, as amicus curiae, supporting the Petitioner THOMAS L. CASEY, ESQ.On behalf of the Respondents REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OFCHARLES A. ROTHFELD, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioner PAGE th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC P R O C E E D I N G S(: a.m.)CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: The first case thismorning in which we'll hear argument is No. -, YellowTransportation, Inc. v. Michigan.Mr. Rothfeld. ORAL ARGUMENT OF CHARLES A. ROTHFELDON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERMR. ROTHFELD: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice, andmay it please the Court:The issue in this case is a narrow one, but ithas considerable practical importance for the continuingflow of interstate commerce. In , Congress enacted a statute that wasdesigned to ease the burdens that State registration feesimpose on trucks that travel interstate. To helpaccomplish that purpose, the statute provides that aState's registration fee may not exceed the fee that theState collected or charged as of November th, . The question here before the Court is whetherthat Federal standard precludes a State from now imposinga fee on a category of trucks when the State waived thefee as to that category of trucks and therefore did notactually collect or charge it as of the controlling date.QUESTION: May I ask, did it waive the fee for th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC all carriers or just the carriers involved in this case?MR. ROTHFELD: It -- it waived the fee for allcarriers in the category that are involved in this case.The State had in place a reciprocity policy. QUESTION: But did it waive the fee for allcarriers in the State? MR. ROTHFELD: I do not believe. There isactually nothing in the record, Justice Stevens, thatindicates how many States paid fees -- how many truckspaid fees and how many did not. It's my -- ourunderstanding that there were trucks that were notbenefitting from the reciprocity policy and therefore theywould have paid fees. So I think -- I think that theanswer, although not reflected in the record, is that sometrucks paid fees and some did not.QUESTION: Thank you. MR. ROTHFELD: As I say, the question is whetherif there is a fee that is waived as to a category oftrucks in , whether or not that waiver must continueto remain in place currently because of the --QUESTION: You -- you say as to a category oftrucks. Why do you add that qualification? Why shouldn'tit be true, if you're right, that if a truck -- if a feewas waived as to any truck, it should remain in place?MR. ROTHFELD: Well, we think that the inquiry th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC that's posed by the statute is how were trucks of aparticular type treated. And for example, imagine if aState had in place a sliding scale of fees as to differenttypes of trucks at $ for red trucks, $ for whitetrucks, and nothing for blue trucks. The statute refersto in -- in terms -- it says that the State's fee mustequal the fee not to exceed $ per vehicle that the Statecollected or charged as of November th, . Well,what in that -- in that circumstance, what is the fee thatthe State charged when there are these differentcategories of trucks? We think it has to be understood to mean the feethat the State charged to trucks of that type, and so, asI say, in in Michigan trucks of a particular type,trucks that were base-plated in the State of Illinois,were not subject to fees. We, therefore, think that underthe plain language of the statute, the same policy has toapply to trucks in that category now. QUESTION: Now, was there some change as of in connection with the fee applicable here?MR. ROTHFELD: There was a change that wasannounced for the registration.QUESTION: Yes, and I guess that isn't beforeus --MR. ROTHFELD: Well, that -- that -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: -- in this case. MR. ROTHFELD: To elaborate on -- on JusticeO'Connor's question, in , the registration year,there is no question, and it is undisputed, that for theentitlement to operate in the State in , on Novemberth, , the date identified as -- as crucial in thestatute, trucks that were base-plated in States that hadreciprocity understandings with -- with Illinois did nothave to pay fees. And therefore, Yellow Transportation,the petitioner here, whose trucks were base-plated in --in Illinois did not pay fees. It is true, Justice O'Connor, that in -- towardsthe end of , prior to November th, the Stateannounced a change for the registration year, andYellow, being a diligent taxpayer, actually paid for prior to November th.QUESTION: What does the term base-plated mean?MR. ROTHFELD: Base-plated means that plates,license plates, were issued by that State. So the State-- the title for the vehicles were in those States. Those --QUESTION: When you say base-plated in Illinois,then that means the title was issued in Illinois --MR. ROTHFELD: The title --QUESTION: -- and it had Illinois license plates th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC on its truck?MR. ROTHFELD: Either Illinois license plates orplates that were issued through Illinois. There -- thisgoes beyond any issue that's presented here, but there isa understanding between the States, the InternationalRegistration Plan, and there are internationalregistration plates that can be provided by -- by anyState, but it's provided through a single State. And sothe license plates here for Yellow trucks, it is sort ofundisputed, were provided by Illinois. So there is noquestion that within the understanding of -- of theMichigan scheme in , the Yellow trucks were based inIllinois and therefore benefitted from the reciprocitypolicy in place in -- in Michigan.QUESTION: Your -- your test that you propose isthat it's the type of truck. It -- I take it there'snothing in -- in the statute or in regulatorypronouncements that talk about types of trucks unless it'sthe number of axles or something. But type of truck, itseems to me, can be applied in the generic way thatMichigan argues. It's a type of truck because it waswithin the exemption or without the exemption. MR. ROTHFELD: Well, let me be clear what I --what I mean by that, Justice Kennedy. I don't mean typeof truck in terms of the number of axles or -- or the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC weight of the truck. I -- I mean the category -- the rulethat the State applied in -- the State had in place asystem of rules that applied, different -- as we know,different fees to different types of trucks. Let me giveyou an example. Imagine that the State had a scheme in place inwhich it charged $ for red trucks, $ for white trucks,nothing for blue trucks, as I suggested before. What isthe -- what is the fee that the State applied? You haveto say the fee the State applied to who and look at therule that the State would have applied in . And thatmeans identifying the type of truck in the sense of howwould the rule categorize it. And Congress has frozen inplace, we believe, the rules that governed fee levels atthe time. If that were not the approach one took and therewere these different --QUESTION: May I ask, under your hypothetical,would that rule have prevented the company from repaintingits trucks, paint the blue trucks white or the whitetrucks red, to get in a different category, which is whathappened here? They moved from one place of registration-- one rule where the trucks were licensed to a place ofthe home office or something like that. So could theyhave later repainted their trucks? Or in this case, could th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC they years later have moved -- changed the -- the ruleon -- on which -- whether it's a place of licensing or thehome office? MR. ROTHFELD: Well, if -- if the question,Justice Stevens, is whether the -- the fee payer couldavoid the fee by somehow modifying its trucks --QUESTION: No, no, no. Whether the State couldchange its -- its -- as it did here. It did it in oneyear. Could it have done the same thing, say, yearslater? MR. ROTHFELD: Our -- our understanding, YourHonor, is that that -- the State could not do that. Wethink that Congress has frozen in place expressly by theterms of the statute --QUESTION: Locked in permanently to . Soeven if -- let's say, the reciprocity agreement persistsin , but Michigan wants to change it in and '. It cannot. It's locked in forever to a reciprocityagreement that it made with its sister State only for theyear . Is that your reading?MR. ROTHFELD: Yes, and let me explain how wethink that applies. First, the statute went into effect in ,although it was enacted in . So in the interveningyears, the State could have done whatever -- whatever it th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC wished. We think that Congress has frozen the fee levelsin place. Now, whether those fee levels were establishedby reciprocity rule or by unilateral State law or byadministrative fiat, it wouldn't matter. The State had inplace in a policy that said trucks of a certaincharacter, trucks in this instance license plated in a --in Illinois, were not subject to fees. Fees were notdemanded from those trucks. They weren't collected. Theyweren't charged. Those trucks did not have to pay a feeto entitle them to operate on the State's roads as of therelevant period. And that being the case, we thinkCongress, which said the State's fee must equal the fee,not to exceed $ per vehicle --QUESTION: Well, Mr. Rothfeld, the problem Ihave with -- with your -- your argument is how does one goabout identifying the category? Is the category Michigantrucks, or is the category trucks subject to a reciprocityagreement so that if a reciprocity agreement that used toexist with Michigan were canceled, or if -- if a -- forthat matter, a reciprocity agreement that did -- that usedto not exist with New York were adopted, you come into thecategory or go out of the category, depending upon whetheryou have a reciprocity agreement? What category are --are you urging, and why do you pick that category instead th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC of -- instead of another one? MR. ROTHFELD: Well, we are picking the categorythat we think is -- was selected by Congress becauseCongress said the fee in place in is frozen. And soif that --QUESTION: For -- for the particular truck, orfor the particular State as to which there is areciprocity agreement, or with respect to any State as towhich there is a reciprocity agreement? It's hard tofigure out which category they -- they were talking about.MR. ROTHFELD: Well, I think that it's notcomplex in practice. I think that what Congress wasasking the State to do is look at how it would havetreated a truck of this type in .QUESTION: That's -- that's the key word, ofthis type.MR. ROTHFELD: Well --QUESTION: But what type? MR. ROTHFELD: Well, of whatever --QUESTION: Owned by this company?MR. ROTHFELD: No, no. QUESTION: Or from this State, or subject -- orfrom a State that has -- that currently has a reciprocityagreement?MR. ROTHFELD: I think one would consider the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC rule that was in place in the State just as it did in and say here's a truck, this truck is base-plated inIllinois. That is a characteristic this truck has, whichis relevant under our rule, because our rule says underour existing reciprocity policy, we will not impose a feeon a truck that has its license plate issued by Illinois. Therefore, this truck is not subject to a fee.If such a truck comes along in , after thestatute goes into effect -- and I should say the statutehere is the refreshing acronym, ISTEA, the IntermodalSurface Transportation Efficiency Act. When the ISTEAstatute went into effect, this same -- same truck goesinto the State of Michigan. It has characteristics whichwaive the fee to -- as to it, had this truck been there in, those same characteristics make the State waive thefee as to it now, because Congress has -- has used theterm the State may not charge fees that it was notcharging in . Again, the precise language is theState's fee must equal the fee that the State collected orcharged. QUESTION: Well, Mr. --QUESTION: What about new vehicles? What abouta vehicle purchased, say, in base-plated in Illinois?MR. ROTHFELD: If such a vehicle is base-platedin Illinois, that is the characteristic that is made th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC relevant by the State's rule in place in .QUESTION: So it's not only vehicles thatexisted in , it's any vehicle thereafter acquired. So one -- one element of this is that Michigancould not, on your reading, go over to the principal placeof business, which in this case is -- I take it, is Kansaswith no -- no reciprocity with Michigan -- could notchange that. Everything is frozen forever under ISTEA. Is that your view?MR. ROTHFELD: That -- that is our view, and wethink --QUESTION: Well that's one of your views.And may -- may I ask you about the -- the answeryou didn't give to Justice Scalia? Let's assume thestatute isn't as clear as -- as you are arguing that itis. Isn't this the point at which you say, if it's notthat clear, Chevron controls the answer? MR. ROTHFELD: That -- that is absolutelycorrect, Justice Souter. And if -- it is our view thatthe -- that the statutory language is -- is unambiguous,but if we are wrong about that and if there is anyopportunity to find any sort of -- any wiggle room for theState in the statute, there is no doubt that the statutedoes not unambiguously require that reciprocity --requires States to -- to change their reciprocity rules th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC because the State -- the -- the statute refers, as I say,only to the fee that was charged. It certainly doesn'tsay that States may change rules, particular types ofrules. And that being the case, Chevron deference ismandatory. Here, in fact, agency deference should be at itsheight. The agency here was expressly delegated byCongress the responsibility for promulgatinginterpretations of the ISTEA legislation. It conductednotice and comment rulemaking. It received dozens ofcomments from all interested parties, including the Stateof Michigan. It issued regulations. It issued formalinterpretations of the statute. It published a closelyreasoned explanation for its conclusion. And in thosecircumstances, I think every member of the Court hasrecognized that deference under Chevron principles is atits height, and because I think it -- it simply cannot besaid that the statutory language is clearly inconsistentwith the approach taken by the agency, the agency'sapproach must be dispositive. And here, what the agency found, unambiguouslyand expressly, dealing precisely with the question atissue before the Court now, is that if States hadreciprocity policies in place in , they may not amend,change, rescind, modify those policies in such a way -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: Well, but did they change theirreciprocity policy? They just changed the way ofidentifying the State that's relevant for determiningwhether a particular truck has to pay or not.MR. ROTHFELD: Well, I -- I think that is, inour view, a change in the reciprocity policy. Thereciprocity policy is determined by what -- by certainfactors. The State -- it could be a principal place ofbusiness. It could be a different rule, place of licenseplating. QUESTION: Where in the regulations does it saythat the State may not do what it did here? MR. ROTHFELD: The agency issued theirinterpretations of its regulations, which were publishedactually at two points. There -- there was a rulemakingproceeding, and along with rulemaking proceeding, itissued, as I said, formal interpretations of the statuteand its rules. There it indicated expressly that in itsview reciprocity agreements must be frozen and cannot bemodified. A number of States indicated that they wanted tochange their reciprocity rules, and the commission thenheld a second administrative proceeding --QUESTION: Well, but did they change theirreciprocity -- did Michigan change its reciprocity th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC agreement with either Illinois or Arkansas in this case?MR. ROTHFELD: Well, there is actually somequestion as to whether there were formal reciprocityagreements in place. There is no question Michigan had apolicy of providing fee waivers to trucks that were basedin States that in Michigan view provided equivalentwaivers to trucks that were based in Michigan. Applyingthat policy in , Michigan was of the view thatIllinois provided such a waiver for Michigan trucks, andtherefore, Michigan, under its policy announced by itspublic service commission, provided equivalent waiver fortrucks that were based in Illinois. That wasunquestionably the rule that was in place in Michigan atthe relevant time, and because of that, we think, that wasthe fee that was collected or charged. To identify the fee that was collected orcharged or can now be collected or charged from aparticular truck that comes from the State, one has tolook at the rule that was in place then and say, what wasthe fee that would have been applied then to this truck? Under that approach, Michigan cannot now change its -- itsway of implementing reciprocity policies and thereforecharge trucks that would not have been charged at thattime.If there are no further questions now, Your th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Honor, I'll reserve the balance of my time. QUESTION: Very well, Mr. Rothfeld.Mr. Schlick, we'll hear from you.ORAL ARGUMENT OF AUSTIN C. SCHLICKON BEHALF OF UNITED STATES, AS AMICUS CURIAE, SUPPORTING THE PETITIONERMR. SCHLICK: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court:Congress assigned responsibility forimplementing the single State registration system to theInterstate Commerce Commission. The ICC determined thatwhen States apply the statutory fee cap, they mustconsider the reciprocal fee reductions and reciprocal feewaivers that were in place as of November th, . That interpretation serves the central purpose of the feecap provision, which was to grandfather the fees that werein place as of , but only those fees. The Michigan Supreme Court's generic fee rule,on the other hand, would convert Congress's grandfatherprovision into a provision that would allow new fees. The ICC's interpretation ensures that the cappedregistration fee is equal to the fee that the Stateactually collected or charged as of November th, . Congress did not set the cap at the amount that the Statescould have charged. If Congress had wanted to do that, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC the obvious thing to have done would have been to set thecap at $, which is the amount that the ICC allowed allcarriers to charge as of November th, .QUESTION: Well, isn't there at least anargument that Congress could have had that in mind by thedistinction between charged and collected? I mean, ifthere is presumably a difference between them, then the --then the reference to charge would be to a fee that wasnot collected, which would get you to the point which yousaid Congress could have but did not provide for by the --by the flat $. So, I mean, I -- I'm not -- I guess what I'msaying is, unless I'm missing something, I don't thinkyour statutory argument compels the conclusion, but yourChevron argument is -- is -- perhaps takes care of yourposition. MR. SCHLICK: Certainly the Chevron argument is-- is essential to this case. We think that the mostnatural reading of charge or -- of collected or charged,though, is charged, demanded, collected, received.QUESTION: Even though that was not thecommission's first view. The commission's first view ofthis case is that the States would not be bound by thereciprocity agreements and could charge -- whatever theycharged anyone, they could charge everyone. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. SCHLICK: That's right, Justice Ginsburg.The ICC did, during the rulemaking proceeding, change itsinterpretation. As the D.C. Circuit said in NARUC v. ICC,that's what comment periods are for. And the -- thecommission ultimately relied not only on the plainlanguage of the statute, but also on the purposesunderlying the statute. The conference report on ISTEA makes clear thatthere were two purposes in -- in Congress's mind when itdrafted the statute. One was ensuring that -- ensuringbenefit to carriers, ensuring that the overall costs ofthe -- of the State registration requirements wereminimized. The second was preserving existing Staterevenues. Michigan's approach, on the other hand, wouldallow dramatic increases in the fee amounts, in this casean increase from to $ per truck, that would overwhelmthe administrative savings that Congress intended toensure through the single State approach. That -- that also would be a very odd policy toallow those increases since Congress would, in fact, havebeen authorizing increases that the States themselveschose not to implement as of . QUESTION: Let me just be sure you agree withyour colleague. You take the position that they could not th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC have changed the -- the State to which they givereciprocity by changing from licensing State to State ofprincipal place of business, even if they had done it or years later. MR. SCHLICK: As a general matter, that'scorrect, but let me explain, Justice Stevens, theparticular problem presented here, which has not beenaddressed by the ICC or the Department of Transportationand that we think is preserved on -- on remand.As of November th, , Michigan arguably hadtwo different fee systems in place. The first was the feesystem for . If Yellow Transportation had come to theState of Michigan and said, we'd like to add an additionaltruck to -- to our registration for this year, effectiveimmediately, Michigan would have -- it would have chargedand Yellow would have paid under the old reciprocityarrangement, under which the fact that the truck was base-plated, had a license plate for Illinois would have beendispositive. However, simultaneously, Michigan -- Michiganwas -- was demanding and Yellow paid fees under the reciprocity approach where the fact that the -- the truckhad a license plate from Illinois would not be relevantand the fact that Yellow was headquartered in Kansas wouldbe relevant. The ICC did not determine in its American th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Trucking Associations proceeding, which -- which is therelevant one on this question, whether the -- whether thatsort of -- of conflict would be resolved in favor of theold rule or the new rule. And that's the question that wethink should remain open on remand. As a matter of fact,right now the --QUESTION: I -- I don't understand. I thought-- I thought ' is the -- is the -- is the base periodthat -- that's consulted. Why -- why would you use thenew rule? MR. SCHLICK: The new rule would -- would beimplemented as -- as a result of this unusual situation,unique in our -- in our experience, where there were two-- where there two fee systems in place at the same time.QUESTION: There was only one in '. Thesecond one came in after '. If you allow a new feesystem to -- to change things, you should -- you shouldallow a new reciprocity agreement to change things. I --I just don't see why this is a problem. MR. SCHLICK: Well, the unique feature here isthat both were in place and operational as of Novemberth, . And the -- that -- there's also a question ofwhether the move to the new fee system --QUESTION: They -- they were both operating in'? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. SCHLICK: That's right. As of Novemberth, , both were in place. QUESTION: Okay. I -- I --MR. SCHLICK: And operational. Yellow might --QUESTION: I thought the change occurred inJanuary , , but that's okay.MR. SCHLICK: To answer your question, JusticeScalia, the -- the change -- the new system becameeffective for the registration year commencingJanuary st, , but the charges were assessed in thefall of . QUESTION: So if Yellow Freight hadn't paidearly, would this argument be off the board? In otherwords, this -- this fee was paid. The paid -- feewas paid before November th, '. Suppose YellowFreight had waited till after January . MR. SCHLICK: The significance of that, JusticeGinsburg, would be something for the Department ofTransportation in a pending proceeding that's -- that isopen now to consider. That -- that's -- that question hasnot been answered, the significance of -- of the date ofpayment. QUESTION: But you're suggesting there's apossibility that somebody would be penalized for earlypayment, for prompt payment. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. SCHLICK: No. I think there would be muchmore to it than that. And again, this is -- this is a --a unique situation. There have not been problems withimplementing this system, and the Department ofTransportation has before it a request for declaratoryruling filed by Michigan, that was mooted by the MichiganSupreme Court's decision which adopted this generic viewrule that moots out all these questions. And thatproceeding could be reopened if this Court were to remandto the Michigan Supreme Court. But the -- the specific significance of the dateon which Yellow made payment has not been addressed by theICC or by the Department of Transportation. The -- the fee system here -- the actual feerule of the ICC has been in place for almost years now.There have not been serious problems of administration. It's a mechanical process where States simply fill out the-- carriers fill out a chart which has the applicableState, the number of trucks in the State. It's a matterof multiplication and then adding some -- the fee for --for each State. As I was explaining, the Michigan situation isunique and should be left to be resolved by the Michigancourts and by the Department of Transportation. The ICC -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: Do you say the same thing for theargument that there in fact was no reciprocity in placewith Illinois in ? MR. SCHLICK: We do, Justice Ginsburg. That's a-- a subpart of -- of this State-specific question. Thefacts surrounding that have -- have really not beendeveloped before the Michigan courts or even before theDepartment of Transportation at this point. The ICC's interpretation of the fee cap is areasonable implementation of Congress's provision. It'sconsistent with the language of the statute and itspurposes and we submit that it should be upheld. Thedecision of the Michigan Supreme Court should be reversed,and the case should be remanded. QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. Schlick. Mr. Casey, we'll hear from you. ORAL ARGUMENT OF THOMAS L. CASEYON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTSMR. CASEY: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it pleasethe Court:Before I begin my principal argument, I wouldlike to spend just a moment on this -- this point of thechangeover in Michigan from base-plating to principalplace of business. We believe it is not present in the --in this case at this point. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC This case was litigated on that point throughoutthe Michigan courts up until the Michigan Supreme Courtdecision. Michigan had in place a system called base-plating where we imposed fees based on the State in whichthe vehicle was licensed. In early , the systemchanged from that base-plating system to a system that allthe other States used based on the principal place ofbusiness of the truck carrier.QUESTION: That was what determined reciprocity.MR. CASEY: That's what determined reciprocity. That's correct. And Yellow Freight Company, at that time YellowTransportation -- their trucks were licensed in Illinois,a State with which Michigan has reciprocity, but itsprincipal place of business of the parent company isKansas, a State with which Michigan does not havereciprocity. And so when Michigan made this change during, we then switched over and imposed fees for YellowFreight for the registration year of . But thosefees, as normal industry and State practice, were sent outin September of for the next registration year. AndYellow Freight paid them in October of . Again,that's typical industry practice. They're assessed andpaid in advance of the registration year. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC The statute took effect here in December of. The statutory language that we're dealing withtalks about a fee that such State collected or charged asof November th, . Our argument on the -- the way itwas litigated through the State courts is that Michigancharged Yellow Freight before November th, and wecollected from Yellow Freight prior to -- prior toNovember th, . QUESTION: Albeit on a system that didn't gointo effect until --MR. CASEY: For the registration year , wecharged and collected. Yellow Freight disputed that. That's the way it was litigated up to the Michigan SupremeCourt. It didn't involve this question of whetherreciprocity was relevant or irrelevant. The Michigan -- pardon me. The Michigan SupremeCourt decided it on a -- a different basis than the otherState court opinions had. And that raised the questionwhich this Court granted certiorari. In its briefs, Yellow Transportation has impliedthat we've somehow waived that issue. We have not. Wedid not brief it in this Court because this Court limitedthe grant of certiorari to the issue that the supremecourt did decide. So we -- we believe that the caseshould be affirmed on the basis that the Supreme Court of th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Michigan decided it. If it is not affirmed, however, weagree with the United States that the case should beremanded to the Michigan Supreme Court for considerationof this other issue which is still viable. So turning now to our principal argument indefense of the Michigan Supreme Court's decision, thestatute required the ICC to implement a fee system, toadopt a fee for the States, a fee system for a fee not toexceed $ per vehicle, that such State collected orcharged as of November th, . Beginning with the statutory language, underChevron, if the intent of Congress is clear, that's theend of the matter. The precise question that needs to be addressedhere is what did Congress intend. How do you determinethe fee? We believe that Congress's intent is clear. Under the language of this statute --QUESTION: Well, if we think it isn't altogetherclear and in fact could be read the other way, don't wehave to consider Chevron deference? Because that's howthe agency has interpreted it. MR. CASEY: If it -- yes, if -- if the statuteis not clear, then you proceed to the second step ofChevron, which is whether the agency's interpretation is apermissible one. We believe we don't need to get to the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC second step of Chevron because the text of the statute isunambiguous. QUESTION: But if you're wrong about the textbeing unambiguous -- and you do have an uphill argumentthere because didn't the two lower courts in Michiganreason the other way? Didn't they reject the argumentthat the Michigan Supreme Court embraced?MR. CASEY: The -- I agree the second step ofChevron is always an uphill argument, to overcome anagency interpretation. It's -- but on -- on the facts ofthis case, on the text of this statute, we believe thatthe agency interpretation is impermissible. What the --what the agency did here was not just interpret thestatute; they have, in fact, rewritten it. They haveimposed conditions in the statute which are simply notthere. QUESTION: But didn't the lower courts inMichigan say that was a proper reading, that the ICC'sreading --MR. CASEY: Yes. QUESTION: -- was a proper --MR. CASEY: Yes, they did.QUESTION: Which makes it harder for you toargue that there is a plain meaning the other way.MR. CASEY: Yes, it does make it harder. I th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC agree. But it -- it is still a burden that we believe wecan overcome because we believe that, as this Court did inthe Whitman v. ATA, it is possible to look at a statute,say a statute is ambiguous, and still say that an agencyinterpretation is unreasonable. We believe what theagency has done here is unreasonable. What the agency has done here is add language tothe statute. They have imposed the requirement in thestatute that you look at reciprocity agreements. There isnothing in the statute about looking at reciprocityagreements. There's nothing in the statute about lookingat particular carriers or how particular carriers aretreated. All this statute -- this subsection of thestatute requires and permits is to look at what the Statecollected or charged as of , November th.QUESTION: Is there anything in the record thatindicates what percentage of revenue a State like Michigangets on the basis of these reciprocity agreements or howmuch -- how much of its revenue from this kind of tax isnot affected by reciprocity agreements? MR. CASEY: The record in this case is veryscant. It was decided on summary disposition right afterfiling of the complaint. I do know that in the year ,which is years after the enactment of the statute, totalMichigan revenue from registration fees was $. million. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC There are States participating in the single Stateregistration system. We have reciprocity agreements with of those States. QUESTION: Thank you. MR. CASEY: But I don't know how thoseindividually break down. Michigan registers approximately, trucking carriers each year. About half of them arefrom Canada. But I don't know. That's intra- andinterstate carriers. The fees for intrastate carriers aredifferent. They're $ instead of $. But the recordis very scant in this case because of the way itdeveloped. QUESTION: Would you tell me again why you thinkthe statute is -- is clear and unambiguous in your favor? MR. CASEY: There --QUESTION: I see -- I see the sense of a genericapproach because of the trucks being painted a differentcolor or reincorporation and so forth. MR. CASEY: There -- there --QUESTION: But I'm not sure that I can find thatunder the clear language of the statute. There's a commonsense aspect to it. MR. CASEY: There are very few words which areat issue here. The fee that such State collected orcharged as of November th, . We believe that means th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC you look only to what the State collected or charged underits fee system. That is, what -- if -- if a Statecollected or charged its fee -- it's $ in Michigan --from any carrier as of November th, that ends thematter.QUESTION: So you're reading in -- you'rereading in from any carrier. And -- and, yes, that'sreasonable to read that in, I suppose. But it's alsoreasonable to read in from a carrier of -- of this sort. Or you could read in from this particular truck. Youcould read in a lot of -- you have to read in something,it seems to me. MR. CASEY: Well, if -- under ourinterpretation, under -- under the plain text, we submityou don't have to read in anything. The -- the words,collected or charged, are in the disjunctive. They --they're verbs. They require something. Charged meanssent out a bill or an invoice. Collected means wereceived something. QUESTION: Let me ask you this. Did -- doesMichigan -- did Michigan at the relevant time have ascheme in which every truck of every size, weight, class,et cetera was charged the same fee? No.MR. CASEY: These -- these fees deal onlywith -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: No, but can you give me a yes or noanswer to that? Did Michigan say, we have a law that saysif you are a truck, you pay X dollars, no ifs or buts? Is-- was that the Michigan law? MR. CASEY: The statute in Michigan imposes a$ fee but permits a waiver, meaning . QUESTION: So are you telling me that the answerto my question is yes? There is only one category knownin Michigan and that is the category of a truck?MR. CASEY: No. There -- there -- there's a feeof $ or . Some trucks were charged . Some werecharged . QUESTION: So there are at least two categories.MR. CASEY: Yes. QUESTION: And if there are at least twocategories, don't you have to do just what Justice Scaliasaid you have to do? You have to read something into thestatute, or you would be reading it in such a way as tocharge against a truck in category A what, under theMichigan law, you would have charged against a truck forcategory B. That can't be right. So that you've got to-- as Justice Scalia has suggested, you've got to read insome kind of a categorization in addition to the plainmeaning of the statute. Isn't that right? MR. CASEY: I -- I disagree. The -- the words, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC collected or charged, are in the disjunctive. So if theState either collected the fee as of November or chargedit as of November --QUESTION: No matter to whom. No matter to whattruck.MR. CASEY: No matter to whom. The fact --QUESTION: May I also suggest that the -- whenyou look at those words in the context of the wholesubparagraph (), which is the part --MR. CASEY: Yes. QUESTION: -- which begins, shall establish afee system, so you're talking about collected or chargedas part of a system. MR. CASEY: That's correct, Your Honor. Well,it's -- it's true. And that -- that goes to another partof our argument. This -- this system or this section,subsection (), is the section in which Congressimplemented its goal of preserving State revenues. There-- there are two goals that Congress had in passing thesingle State registration system. One is to simplify thewhole procedure for the trucking industry and for States,and two was to preserve State revenues.This subsection () that we're dealing with is asection that preserves State revenues. And when you lookat it in that context, the text here deals only with fees th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC that the State collects. There are other sections thattalk about payments by trucks to States. There aresections that talk about carriers specifically. Congressdidn't use the word carriers in this subsection. Theydidn't use the words, payments by trucks to -- or bycarriers to States. They could have used those words, asthey did in other subsections. QUESTION: Carrier in your view signifying theentity that owns the trucks? MR. CASEY: Yes.What -- you -- earlier you mentioned trucks ofdifferent weights and things. We're talking only hereabout the power vehicle. We're not talking about thetrailer part of the truck. This is just for proof ofinsurance. It's a $ only. There are other fees thatvarious interstate agreements have for different axleweights, and that kind of thing. QUESTION: I -- I guess our point is that foryou to make the statute work, you are reading somethinginto it that isn't there, which is this generic system and-- or this generic theory. And there's a certain amountof common sense to that, but it seems to me that by yourhaving to do that, you in effect concede the statute isambiguous and then your clear argument case collapses.MR. CASEY: Well, I would -- I respectfully th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC disagree, Your Honor. I --QUESTION: The words, fee system, are in thestatute itself. That's -- those are the first words inthe subsection to which you're --MR. CASEY: This -- correct. This -- thissubsection is part of a fee system, and this -- thissubsection of that system is the section that deals withensuring that States receive their revenue. And when youput it in that context and you look at the specific wordsof the statute here, when you look at the collected orcharged in the disjunctive, the statute --QUESTION: I don't understand what you get outof the disjunctive. MR. CASEY: The statute --QUESTION: How -- how does that help you? MR. CASEY: The statute --QUESTION: It seems to me that for the trucksthat were from reciprocity States, the fee was neithercharged nor collected. So how does the disjunctive helpyou? MR. CASEY: That's what the Michigan SupremeCourt said, in essence, that if the -- if the Statecollected or charged the $ fee, period, then the statuteis satisfied.QUESTION: Did the State sponsor that -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. CASEY: Everything else is irrelevant. Pardon me. QUESTION: In Michigan you -- you helpfullybegan your argument by pointing out that the case had beendecided on a different ground below.MR. CASEY: Yes. QUESTION: And this question of plain meaning ornot surfaced for the first time in the Michigan SupremeCourt, and that was the basis for its decision. MR. CASEY: Yes.QUESTION: Did you make that argument? Did theState of Michigan make that argument, or was it somethingthat the Michigan Supreme Court brought up on its own?MR. CASEY: It was made in a few paragraphs asone alternative argument in a long brief, but theprincipal thrust of the argument -- it was -- it wasmentioned in the Michigan Court of Appeals opinion andrejected. It's in the appendix, I believe, on page where they rejected it. But, yes, it was presented to theMichigan Court of Appeals. It is still active in theMichigan courts.QUESTION: You presented it but not as your mainargument. MR. CASEY: Our argument -- our principalargument, the way the case was framed in the State courts th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC was this timing issue. Did Michigan properly switch overfrom the base-plating to the principal place of businessand could we, therefore, impose the fee and apply thestatute to Yellow Freight? We also argued as one of our alternativearguments that it didn't matter or that the -- the statutedidn't matter -- didn't apply to specific carriers, thatit applied broadly to everyone. The supreme court at oralargument asked -- started asking questions about thistheory that they ultimately decided it on. But the -- thetheory that the Michigan Supreme Court decided the case onwas, by no means, the -- the principal focus of the -- thecase that was briefed and argued below. QUESTION: General Casey, you -- you say thatthe purpose of this section was to preserve Staterevenues, but -- but -- the consequence of the -- thetheory that you're espousing is -- is not just to preserveState revenues, but to augment them. It -- it allows theStates to -- to take in significantly more than they tookin before. That is, all of those considerable States thathad reciprocity and from whom they collected, from whosetrucks they collected nothing, they can now collect $. That -- that's -- it goes far beyond preserving Staterevenues. MR. CASEY: Well, the -- we -- we submit that th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC the fears that have been expressed in our opponents'briefs that these reciprocity agreements willautomatically be abrogated is unfounded, for a couple ofreasons, principally because those reciprocity agreementswere originally entered into by States for economicreasons, totally apart from the -- the statute. It's notas though the -- the State is looking at this as a -- as agiant money-making event --QUESTION: I understand that. I'm -- I'm notworried about the sky falling, but I'm addressing yourargument from the purpose of the statute. And you say thepurpose is to preserve State revenues, but you come upwith a theory that goes far beyond preserving Staterevenues. It permits the States to augment their -- theirrevenues considerably. In -- in order to preserve Staterevenues, you need go no further than -- than youropponents' theory.MR. CASEY: Under their interpretation what hashappened, in effect, is that State revenues are at bestfrozen, but in practical effect, they may really beratcheted downward because of changing economiccircumstances. QUESTION: Would you explain one thing to methat response -- it relates to Justice Scalia's question,too. In this particular case, it clearly augmented State th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC revenues because the place of -- principal place ofbusiness of this carrier doesn't have a reciprocityagreement. But it would seem to me that with respect toother carriers, it might diminish the revenue because someof them -- it might be just the reverse. They might have-- that change might go from a State with -- with a --without a reciprocity agreement to one that does have --MR. CASEY: Well, when Michigan changed from abase-plating to principal place of business, it resultedin, on balance, no economic benefit. QUESTION: With respect to some States, it wouldincrease revenues; with respect to others, it woulddecrease revenues. MR. CASEY: Correct. But --QUESTION: But your -- your argument is you cancharge everybody $ no matter from what State. Isn't --isn't that your theory? MR. CASEY: Our -- the Michigan Supreme -- underthe --QUESTION: That you can, as far as the Federalstatute is concerned, charge everybody $.MR. CASEY: Or the maximum that they werecharging at the time that the statute took effect. It maynot have been $. Whatever their State maximum that theywere charging at the time, and some States don't have $. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: No. I'm -- as far as Michigan isconcerned --MR. CASEY: As far as Michigan is concerned.QUESTION: -- your argument is that you cancharge everybody the full $.MR. CASEY: That's correct.QUESTION: But Michigan has some interest ingetting its own trucks -- having lower fees in otherStates I suppose. MR. CASEY: Of course. As we've indicated inour briefs, Michigan has committed that we are not goingto abrogate our reciprocity agreements, but as I -- asI've indicated, there are economic reasons why States arenot going to, in a wholesale, abrogate these -- or thesereciprocity agreements. They're not going to cut theirown throats by -- by doing that. They -- they have tolive with these trucking companies. They have to livewith these economic benefits that cause them to enter intothese reciprocity agreements in the first place. And -- and there's another factor at work heretoo. The -- the ICC Termination Act requiredCongress -- or excuse me -- required the Department ofTransportation to replace this entire regulatory scheme asof , but it has not happened yet. Depending on theoutcome of this case, it -- this may serve as an impetus th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC to replace this entire system with something that couldserve both the States and the trucking industry betterthan the current system. But the -- as -- as youindicated, the sky is very unlikely to fall regardless ofwhat this Court does if -- if it affirms the supreme courtor not. QUESTION: May I ask you a question? What --how would you come out or how would the case come out ifwe decided that the statute required every State tomaintain existing reciprocity agreements? It couldn't --they couldn't charge higher fees and they couldn't cancelreciprocity agreements. Would you win or lose if weinterpret it that way? MR. CASEY: Would Michigan win or lose?QUESTION: Yes, in this case. As I understandit, you haven't changed any reciprocity agreement. You'vemerely changed the method of deciding which State isrelevant for the purposes of granting reciprocity toparticular truckers.MR. CASEY: Michigan probably would not win orlose in that. It would probably be no change --QUESTION: You assert the right to terminatereciprocity agreements. You -- you --MR. CASEY: That -- under the --QUESTION: Your basic point here -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. CASEY: Under the theory --QUESTION: -- is that despite this Federalstatute, you can terminate your reciprocity agreement withKansas and charge the full $. Right? MR. CASEY: That's the theory of the MichiganSupreme Court opinion. Yes, it is, Your Honor. QUESTION: But you haven't terminated theagreement, have you? MR. CASEY: We -- we have an agreement withIllinois, not Kansas. But we have not. We have --Michigan has not terminated any reciprocity agreements. Michigan will not. Other -- under this rationale, otherStates could as a --QUESTION: General Casey I have a question aboutthe response you just gave. I thought there was lurkingin this case as an issue, if there should be a remand,that there was no viable reciprocity agreement withIllinois, that that terminated in . Are you -- areyou --MR. CASEY: Well --QUESTION: -- abandoning that argument? MR. CASEY: No. There -- in the past, back inthe early s, there were formal written contracts ofreciprocity. When Michigan passed its statute in formalizing the $ fee, the public service commission th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC terminated those contracts and contacted every State withwhich it had reciprocity to verify this. This whole question of reciprocity is somewhatuncertain. Many States are not sure with whom they havereciprocity because various State --QUESTION: Is that a -- is that a live issue inthis case? MR. CASEY: Michigan has a reciprocity agreementwith Illinois, we believe. We -- we operate our system asthough we -- we give reciprocity to trucks licensed inIllinois, and it's our understanding that Illinois givesreciprocity to trucks licensed in Michigan.QUESTION: So there would be no point in sayingthat that's an issue open for a possible remand.MR. CASEY: That's -- I believe that's correct.QUESTION: But that's not right. You don't givereciprocity to trucks licensed in Illinois. You givereciprocity to trucks who are owned by companies who haveprincipal place of business in Illinois. MR. CASEY: That's correct. I misspoke myself,Your Honor. Thank you. For purposes of this case, at thetime we had the base-plating system, but now it's -- if --if we ultimately lose on that other point and we are stuckwith the base-plating method and could not -- and theMichigan court rules against us and we are stuck with the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC base-plating method, that could cause a problem forMichigan. Let me -- let me just close by saying that webelieve that the Michigan Supreme Court's decision isfaithful to the text, results in a consistent and acoherent interpretation of the Federal statute, that isconsistent with the congressional intent, and we believeit should be affirmed. If it is not affirmed, we urge theCourt to remand the case back to the Michigan SupremeCourt for consideration of the other issues that were notconsidered by it. If there are no further questions. QUESTION: Very well, Mr. Casey. Mr. Rothfeld, you have minutes remaining.REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF CHARLES A. ROTHFELDON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERMR. ROTHFELD: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice. Acouple of quick points. First, we think that the key issue in the casehas been identified by questions from a number of membersof the Court. Something has to be read into the statute. Now, we think what we would read into the statute isclearly the correct thing to read into it, but even if weare not absolutely right about that, petitioner shouldprevail because given the agency's determination here, the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC -- the tie goes to this side of the table and we thinkthat that should be dispositive on that issue in the case.Second, there's been some discussion aboutissues that are other issues in the case and -- and theproper disposition as to them. We think that there is noquestion about the existence of reciprocity agreements orpolicies that would require remand, in response to JusticeGinsburg's question. I think Mr. Casey has candidlyacknowledged that there was clearly a reciprocity policyin place in Michigan, whether identified reciprocityagreement or simply unilateral policy. There was noquestion about the nature of that policy. There has beenno dispute throughout the entire course of this litigationabout whether there was such a policy and whether it wasconsistently enforced. And therefore, there -- I thinkthere is no subject there to be considered further onremand.The question of whether Michigan's prospectivechange in its policy for the registration year andwhether Yellow's diligence in paying that early shouldsomehow affect the proper outcome here and require Yellowto pay in the future --QUESTION: I didn't understand the last clausethat you just spoke. MR. ROTHFELD: Well, the -- the question whether th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC the fact that Yellow paid in advance of November th, for a registration year that was not going to go intoeffect until sometime in --QUESTION: Well, the statute says collected orcharged. MR. ROTHFELD: Well, as of , and thequestion is collected or charged, in our view, for what? And we think it's for the entitlement to operate onMichigan's roads at the relevant time. I guess I would take a little bit of issue withwhat Mr. Schlick said. The -- the ICC we think expresslyaddressed that point in its declaratory order when States,including Michigan, said --QUESTION: Well, but it really hasn't been fullyfleshed out here, that particular angle. I -- I think itwould be perfectly consistent to agree with your basicposition and still feel that was open on remand, as -- asthe Solicitor General said. MR. ROTHFELD: Well, our view is that if that is-- if there's to be further litigation on that point, theproper forum for that is the administrative proceedingthat -- that Mr. Schlick also mentioned. There isactually pending before the Department of Transportation aproceeding initiated by Michigan which takes issue withthe ATA's -- with the -- the ICC's determination on that th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC point and asks for reconsideration by the agency. Wethink that that is the appropriate place to consider thatwhere the agency can exercise its expertise. We thenappeal to the D.C. Circuit if there's to be some -- somequestion about it. So that -- that's what we wouldsuggest is the appropriate --QUESTION: But why should we get into an issuethat the Michigan Supreme Court didn't resolve? It is anissue. You may be right or wrong on the merits of it, butat least we would not -- we are here reviewing adetermination made by the Michigan Supreme Court. You aresaying that we should, at the same time, strike at anissue that the Michigan Supreme Court didn't reach.MR. ROTHFELD: Well, it is true the MichiganSupreme Court did not decide it. Our suggestion is thatthe more appropriate place for it to be subject to furtherlitigation, if there is to be further litigation, is inthis agency proceeding with an appeal to the Federalcourt. But -- but you are correct that it was notexpressly addressed by the Michigan Supreme Court in this-- in this case.One final point quickly in response to JusticeStevens' question about whether the State terminatedreciprocity agreements or -- or not, or simply changed itspolicy. We think it doesn't matter how you look at it. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Either way, the State clearly changed the rule that it wasapplying. It had a clearly articulated rule consistentlyapplied that trucks based in certain places would not besubject to fees. It is now changing that rule and it'stherefore trying to collect and charge fees as to thosetrucks that it did not charge before or collect before,and we think that is clearly precluded by the statutorylanguage and is certainly decided by the ICC adversely toMichigan. If there are no further questions, Mr.Justice --QUESTION: Could I ask on that question? The --the point is should not exceed the fee that was charged. If in the aggregate the change from the place ofdetermining which State applies, if the aggregate were todecrease the collections, which theoretically it could be,then there would be no violation of the statute, as Iunderstand it. MR. ROTHFELD: Well, we think it can't beconsidered in the aggregate. First of all, the statutorylanguage refers to the fee per vehicle. QUESTION: No, a fee system it refers to.MR. ROTHFELD: It does, but if I may, Mr. ChiefJustice, just respond briefly. The particular provisionwhich has the fee-freezing provision refers to the fee per th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC vehicle. So I think that would be precluded. QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. Rothfeld. MR. ROTHFELD: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice.CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: The case is submitted.(Whereupon, at : a.m., the case in theabove-entitled matter was submitted.) th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC 