 IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - XUTAH, ET AL., Petitioners ::v. : No. -DONALD L. EVANS, SECRETARY OF : COMMERCE, ET AL. :- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - XWashington, D.C.Wednesday, March , The above-entitled matter came on for oralargument before the Supreme Court of the United States at: a.m.APPEARANCES:THOMAS R. LEE, ESQ., Provo, Utah; on behalf of theAppellants.WALTER E. DELLINGER, Washington, D.C.; on behalf ofthe North Carolina Appellees.GEN. THEODORE B. OLSON, Solicitor General, Departmentof Justice, Washington, D.C.; for the FederalAppellees. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC C O N T E N T SORAL ARGUMENT OF THOMAS R. LEE, ESQ. On behalf of the Appellants ORAL ARGUMENT OFWALTER E. DELLINGER, ESQ.PAGEOn behalf of the North Carolina Appellees ORAL ARGUMENT OFTHEODORE B. OLSON, SOLICITOR GENERAL, DEPARTMENTOF JUSTICE, on behalf of the FederalAppellees REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF THOMAS R. LEE, ESQ.On behalf of the Appellants th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC P R O C E E D I N G S(: a.m.)CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: We'll hear argument nowin number -, Utah vs. Donald L. Evans, Secretary ofCommerce. Mr. Lee.ORAL ARGUMENT OF THOMAS R. LEE, ESQ.ON BEHALF OF THE APPELLANTSMR. LEE: Mr. Chief Justice and may it pleasethe Court: for most of the history of the census of theAmerican population, that census has been conducted bymeans of an actual count unaltered by any methods ofstatistical estimation. At the time of the first censusof , James Madison noted that this was the wayrequired by the Constitution and ever since then, thatrequirement has been implemented by Congress in the CensusAct. The question presented in this case is whether theCensus Bureau acted unlawfully in departing from thatlongstanding historical tradition by using the method ofestimation called hot-deck imputation in the apportionment count. . percent of the apportionment count was comprised of actual data compiledby census enumerators in two phases. First, a mailingsent to all addresses on a master address file, andsecond, as many as six follow-up visits. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Imputation added an additional . percent to thatcount, . million statistically generated persons wereadded to the apportionment count by means of a statisticalestimate. The basic essence of the estimate was to saythe , addresses that the Census Bureau was unable toenumerate are assumed to have estimated to have the samenumber of occupants as their next door neighbors. QUESTION: Mr. Lee, I would like to ask you toaddress early on whether this injury that Utah alleges tohave suffered is redressable in any fashion. Things havehappened since the census was taken. North Carolinapresumably has drawn districts and has gone quite far downthe road in reliance on the census. The President hasturned over the numbers and so forth. How can this beredressed, do you think, now? MR. LEE: I suppose, Justice O'Connor, thatthere are two aspects of your question if I'munderstanding it. One of them would be a redressabilitystanding question. That's a question as the SolicitorGeneral notes that has already been decided by this Courtboth in Franklin and in Montana with regard to --QUESTION: Well, there is jurisdiction, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC but I don't know that we have really addressed theredressability issue fully in prior cases. When couldUtah have made its challenge? When is the earliest timeUtah could have challenged this imputation business? MR. LEE: It would have been impossible, JusticeO'Connor, for Utah to have brought a challenge prior tothe census. As North Carolina indicated --QUESTION: Well, why is that? I mean, you knew,did you, that the Census Bureau planned to use it? MR. LEE: Yes. We certainly had constructiveknowledge. QUESTION: But you wouldn't have had an injury. MR. LEE: We wouldn't have had an injury, and infact as the Census Bureau itself indicates, there wouldhave been no way even to have anticipated that imputationwould have had this effect. QUESTION: Well, you have no incentive to bringa challenge until you know that you are losing acongressional seat, I suppose. MR. LEE: That's exactly right. And that wasone of the problems. It took us some time to get th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC the numbers from the Census Bureau, specific state bystate numbers, in order to be able to determine whether infact this was a method that impacted Utah, and as soon aswe got those numbers, we brought this suit within a fewdays. QUESTION: Well, was there a window of timebetween completion of the census and the submission of thenumbers to the President where you could have sued? Howlong was that period of time? MR. LEE: That was, the time line is that theSecretary must submit the numbers by the end of thecalendar year to the President, and then the Presidentmust submit those numbers within seven days after thefirst day of the Congress. The problem, Justice Kennedy,was that we didn't have those numbers at that time. TheCensus Bureau had not released again state by stateimputation numbers until well into March of , and itwas within a few days after that that we brought thissuit. QUESTION: Well, if you prevail, what's supposedto happen? MR. LEE: The remedy that we are asking for,Justice Kennedy, is simply a declaration and an injunctionto the Secretary of Commerce directing the Secretary toissue a new apportionment count free of th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC the statistical estimates that we believe are unlawfulunder the Census Act and under the Census Clause of theConstitution. QUESTION: Well, what's supposed to happen underthe Act? I mean, I went back and read the Act last night. And that's geared to certain automatic apportionment, andthat in turn is geared to the delivery of the numbers bythe date specified. So let's assume the Secretary andthen the President comes with different numbers. The Actdoesn't have any provision in effect for self-adjustment,does it? MR. LEE: And I think, Justice Souter, that'seffectively North Carolina's argument. That there aretime deadlines set forth in the Census Act that somehowstand in the way of reviewability here. That is anargument that was raised and rejected in Franklin. TheFranklin opinions, Justice O'Connor's opinion for a fourjustice plurality on that point, says that if this Courtagrees with the Plaintiffs in this case, we may presumethat the President of the United States will conform toour decision and will in fact issue a new apportionmentcount that is consistent with the law as we clarify it. By the same token --QUESTION: I will presume that, too, but th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC that was four justices, and there wasn't a specificdiscussion of what is supposed to happen under thestatute, even assuming the President sort of takes counselfrom our opinion. MR. LEE: And the other opinion in that case,Justice Souter, that also addresses this issue was JusticeStevens' concurring opinion, for a separate four-justiceconcurrence on this issue, and his analysis was in factthat the statute would require the President to conform toa revised count that the Secretary might present inconformity to a decision of this Court. QUESTION: Well, that's what he said and as youknow, I joined his opinion. But that didn't have amajority, either. So isn't it incumbent upon you to tellus whether in fact the position that some of us took thatfirst time is in fact correct? Why will they, I mean, itseemed so to me at the time but it's a real issue in thiscase, as to whether the statute which is geared todelivery of information at certain times can in effectreverse itself. MR. LEE: The other point that Justice Stevensmade in his concurring opinion, Justice Souter, which Ithink is critical on this issue, is that the time linesunder the statute can be th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC understood only to trigger, only with regard to the issueof ripeness. In other words, it makes no sense to thinkthat a time deadline for executive action under a statutemeans that you, you must -- it makes no sense to thinkthat those deadlines are a bar to judicial review. Infact, what we usually think of when we look at a statutethat has deadlines is that once those deadlines havepassed, then executive action is at an end, there is aripe claim that may be brought and then it's appropriatefor the federal courts to step in. QUESTION: But those are not cases where after,after the deadline provisions, you have a, a basic changein, in the court's role, that after the deadline in thiscase, you are going to have to, the court is going to haveto issue an opinion that purports to bind the President. Which is, you know, a significant step. MR. LEE: Yes. I think that the opinion doesnot need to purport to bind the President, and as theCourt indicated in Franklin, there is no need for theorder to go to that point. QUESTION: Well, but I mean that's, that's evenworse. You want us to decide something on the ground thatsome good may come out of it. But I just th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC don't know what your closest case is for the propositionthat this satisfies the redressability requirement. Let's assume that the President, were interestedin implementing our orders. We send something toCongress, and maybe that's the end of it there. Can weforce the Congress to act? MR. LEE: Well, the, the order would go to theSecretary. The Secretary would submit a new apportionmentcount to the President that would be free of theestimations and the question then is what would thePresident do. And the President under two alternative,but not necessarily inconsistent theories, of eightjustices in the Franklin case would certainly conform andwould present those same numbers, that same revisedapportionment count. QUESTION: Mr. Lee --QUESTION: Let me just -- what's your closestcase to show that a declaration of this kind satisfies therequirement of redressability? MR. LEE: Well, I believe it's Franklin, JusticeKennedy. QUESTION: Excuse me. Other than Franklin. Because Franklin was a fractured opinion. MR. LEE: Well, one understanding th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC consistent with Justice O'Connor's opinion in Franklinwould be that of a declaratory judgment. It does not inand of itself bind the parties. It rather declares thelaw. It is not a, it is not a, a binding order in thesense of ordering parties to do anything. QUESTION: Well, it does bind the parties in acertain extent. It's just, there is no action required asa result of it. There is no mandate saying you must dothis. MR. LEE: That's right, Mr. Chief Justice, and Ithink that that's consistent again with Justice O'Connor'splurality opinion in Franklin. QUESTION: We have never held that a declaratoryjudgment will issue where the Court has no power to compelthe action that the declaratory judgment describes. Imean, you cannot get jurisdiction by saying well, youknow, we have no power to, over this person to compel anyaction, but we are just going to declare what the law isbecause this person, you know, might follow it. I don'tthink that's a basis for jurisdiction. MR. LEE: Well, Justice Scalia, but I thinkthere are two alternative theories. One is JusticeO'Connor's approach and the other is Justice th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Stevens' approach in Franklin, and Justice Stevens'approach in Franklin in fact, is in fact that thePresident is required to conform with revised numbers. But the Secretary might represent --QUESTION: But you are actually taking aposition also that whether or not the President wouldrespond, at least the Secretary would have a duty to dosomething in response to our order. MR. LEE: That's exactly right. QUESTION: Is it quite common that in suits thePresident is not named, and the Secretary is. But Iwanted to go back to a question -- the President hasacted, but Congress has not. Am I correct? Congress iswaiting on what this court does? MR. LEE: The final step, Justice Ginsburg, inthis process, is for the clerk of the House ofRepresentatives to forward to the states a certificatethat shows how many seats in the House of Representativesthey are entitled to after clerk receives the revisednumbers from the President. And this Court in Franklinindicated clearly that that duty is a ministerial duty andthat we can absolutely expect that the clerk of the Housewill follow suit. So the only question is with regard tothe President, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC and either under Justice O'Connor's approach or underJustice Stevens' approach in the Franklin opinions, we canand should expect that the President will in fact conformto this Court's order. QUESTION: You only have a certain amount oftime, Mr. Lee. I want to ask you a question about themerits of the case. Are you saying in effect that therehas to be a specific, something more than just a littlebit of educated guesswork with respect to every house inthe country? MR. LEE: Well, the actual enumeration clause ofthe Constitution would require an actual count, and --QUESTION: Okay. But what, supposing that thecensus people have, they see a house, and they see a carin the driveway, but they can never find anybody home, andthen someone sees lights on late at night. They do theirbest. Do they have to say nobody lives there? MR. LEE: Yes, they do, Mr. Chief Justice, andone of the reasons is that the mere fact that there arelights on and cars there doesn't tell us that this isanyone's usual place of residence. It may be a seasonalvacation home. QUESTION: It doesn't confirm it, but th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC isn't it a permissible inference for the census takers? MR. LEE: Well, at some point a census taker maymake a conclusion, if it's based on information specificto an individual household, may make a conclusion that ahousehold is in fact occupied. Our position is that whatthe Census Act requires, Section , is -- what theCensus Act prohibits, rather, is the use of informationspecific not to that individual household but specific toan entirely different household for the purpose of drawingan inference. QUESTION: Okay. Would you, on that theory,would you agree that although they may not impute a numberbeyond one, it would be fair for them at least to count itas one? Because they start out as I understand it with a,in effect a report from the post office saying, you know,this is a house at which somebody lives. So isn't thatkind of hearsay just as good as, let's say, the next doorneighbor's hearsay at least to the extent of sayingsomebody lives there and they can count one person?MR. LEE: Justice Souter, they don't start outwith the proposition that this is a house and somebodylives there. They start out with the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC proposition that this is an address. QUESTION: Well, doesn't an address usually meansomebody lives there, at least if we can establish thatit's a residential neighborhood? MR. LEE: Not necessarily, for a number ofreasons. Number one, you have got the seasonal homeproblem. It may be no one's personal, no one's usualplace of residence. Number two, you have got the problem that somethings that look like homes and that are in residentialareas actually turn out to be businesses. QUESTION: What percentage of homes in theUnited States when they take the census turn out to bevacation or second homes? MR. LEE: I don't have that number handy off thetop of my head, Justice O'Connor. I believe that it is inthe record, but I'm not aware of that. The total numberof imputations was with regard to , unrelated --QUESTION: But the imputation techniquesapparently treat all the dwellings that are identified asresidences to be counted? They don't discount for apercentage that are vacation homes? MR. LEE: No. They do not. And that's part ofthe problem. Part of the problem here is th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC that imputation assigns occupancy not only to units,Justice Souter, that are known to be houses. QUESTION: That's saying that they are doing itbad. We have to assume they are doing it good. I mean,suppose they have learned with experience that an old agehome that has two bedrooms in each apartment and that hasa sign out in front that says "full," has two people. Onein each bedroom. And now they learn something about thishouse. It's an old age home. It has two bedrooms. Andthe sign in front says full. Now, can they make the assumption that this toohas two people in it? MR. LEE: I think not. QUESTION: Not. Now, why not? Can they make anassumption that if the pizza man delivers pizza to theplace and people eat the pizza, i.e., at least itdisappears, that there is someone in the house? Can theymake that assumption? MR. LEE: They cannot, Justice Breyer. QUESTION: They cannot make the assumption aboutthe pizza man. They deliver it to the door and the fooddisappears and the lights are on and off. They can't makethat assumption? MR. LEE: No. People in businesses eat th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC pizza and people who are living, staying temporarily in avacation home eat pizza. QUESTION: And by the way, there is a sign infront that says this is not a vacation home. (Laughter.)MR. LEE: Then I suppose -- I suppose underthose circumstances, then we'd have information. But --QUESTION: Fine. Once you are down, once youare down that road, then you are then -- then I can easilyconstruct examples where the imputation is absolutely asstrong. I mean, I just did that with my old age home. Soyou are not against imputations, you are against weakimputations. MR. LEE: No. I'm against sampling becausethat's what the statute prohibits. QUESTION: You have to take that position. MR. LEE: I think it's important, though, toanswer your question, Justice Breyer, to go back to thebaseline of the House of Representatives decision. Itholds that a method proposed by the Census Bureau in is a method of sampling. We know that much, and so thereis really a narrow statutory question presented here andit is, is this particular method meaningfully different?And the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC answer is that it is not. It is not under the statistical understanding ofthe term sampling. It also is not because the definitionthat the appellees are proposing here is a definition thatwould nullify this Court's decision in the House ofRepresentatives because the two methods simply are notdistinguishable. Let me talk about the appelees'definitions and explain why that's true. The definitions that they propose say thatsampling is limited to methods that are employed as a lastresort, only after an initial effort to enumerate thewhole population. Under that definition, in fact, both,neither one of the methods that's at issue here wouldfollow sampling, and so that effectively is an argumentthat the Court got it wrong in House of Representativesand that that case ought to effectively be nullified. Andhere's why. QUESTION: Are you suggesting, Mr. Lee, that theCensus Bureau goes about this thing in a way, say,supposing you have a lake in northern Wisconsin where thetemperatures get down to about below in the winter. Soyou know it's not a year-round, you see a bunch of housesaround the lake. The census people come along and do youthink th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC if they could find somebody there, they would justautomatically say yes, that person counts? Withoutinquiring as to whether it's a vacation home or not? MR. LEE: Well, if they know that there issomebody who is living there, they have to find outwhether the somebody who is living there lives there ashis usual place of residence, or that person doesn't countin the apportionment count. But what's going on --QUESTION: But under the imputation method as Iunderstand it, the assumption is made that if a house isthere, that it is a residence, and a second assumption ismade that the number of occupants will be that in ageneral geographic area of other homes. Is that right? MR. LEE: That's right. And that's exactly thesense in which this particular method of imputation is amethod of sampling. The Census Bureau took a sample of, addresses. They called them donor housing unitsin the census. It used that sample of ,addresses or housing units as a representative sample ofthe , addresses that they never were able to counton the theory that they were representative, knowing thatnext door neighbors are not always the same, but that th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC generally across the board, if you take the , sampleor donor units and use them to estimate the ,addresses about which we know nothing, generally acrossthe board it will average out and it will berepresentative. And that's sampling. Sampling is takinginformation about the parts to make an inference about thewhole. QUESTION: I'm curious both in your argumenthere this morning and in the brief, I think both partiesseem to assume that the key question is whether or notthis is sampling. Do you take the position that otherstatistical methods of adjustment are permitted just solong as they are not called sampling? MR. LEE: Our position is, Justice Kennedy, thatany method that takes information from a part of thepopulation to make an inference about the whole is amethod of sampling and is prohibited. Now, there aremethods, statistical methods that the Bureau uses thatdon't amount to sampling that are permitted. Let me giveyou one example. QUESTION: Go ahead. MR. LEE: It's called the method of qualityassurance, and the quality assurance phase, what theBureau does is to randomly send out th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC enumerators to given census tracts to try to find thetracts where there are a large number of errors, where theenumerators may have made a lot of mistakes. But the response to that is to send out anadditional army of enumerators to those problematic tractsto sort out the problem to get the new information. Now,that's an actual count. That's not sampling but it's astatistical method. And so that's an example. QUESTION: What about a house where they havenot been able to find anybody to talk to, no returns sentback, so they go to the people next door and they say isthere anybody living in that house and the person nextdoor says yes, there are two people. Now, is thatpermissible under your theory? MR. LEE: That is permissible under our theory. That's the use of proxy data that the Bureau currentlyengages in and Mr. Chief Justice, that would bepermissible. QUESTION: But the Act refers both to samplingand to other methods of statistical adjustment. It seemsto me sampling is a way to gather the data, and what weare talking about here are statistical assumptions made toevaluate the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC data, and I'm not sure why you have to concede that youlose if we say this isn't sampling. MR. LEE: Well, there may be another way to getthere, Justice Kennedy, but my understanding under thestatute is that Section prohibits the statisticalmethod known as sampling. That may suggest that there areother statistical methods that are not, that don't amountto sampling, and the quality assurance example that I gaveI think is one of those examples that would be permittedunder the statute. But all methods that take information from apart, from these , addresses that are occupied, tomake an inference about the rest of the population, the, addresses that we don't know anything about, thoseare methods of sampling and again you really cannotdistinguish this method in any meaningful way from themethod that was struck down in . The principaldifference is that instead of , addresses aboutwhich we know nothing, under the plan, the Bureauanticipated that there may be many more. QUESTION: Yes. But there is one significantdifference and that is in the technique that was struckdown before, a number of inferences th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC are being drawn from the so-called sample. In this case,only one inference is being drawn from a sample of one,and that is at least a tremendous difference in degree,and I suppose it's a difference in degree that would belikely to have an effect on accuracy. MR. LEE: In fact, Justice Souter, that is not adistinction. The fact that there is an imputation beingmade one individual housing unit at a time, again, doesnot distinguish this method from the method struck down inthe House of Representatives case. QUESTION: Well, it wouldn't in a literal senseif you were simply making one imputation at a time, butyou were making a long series of imputations from the onesample, in this case, the one house. But this is simplyone imputation made one time, and it involves not so mucha, a principle of selection, or let's put it this way. You can characterize it not only as based on a principleof selection, but you can, you can characterize it on, ona rule of probability, like birds of a feather flocktogether. People who live next door tend to be muchalike. So it seems to me that there is a qualitativedifference and a quantitative difference. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. LEE: But Justice Souter, once you pool all ofthe individual housing units together, the -- ,,rather, of these housing units that were used to estimatethe , addresses that we know nothing about after sixfollow-up visits, that's your sample. That's your group. QUESTION: No. Your sample isn't to tellyou about just any random . It's, it's a selection ofone to tell you about one more which is right next to it. So it seems to me that it sort of masks the issue to talkabout and as opposed to one and one. MR. LEE: Mathematically it seems to me, though,Justice Souter, we get to the same end. This is anintermediate step, even though it happens on a householdby household basis. It's an intermediate step for theclear purpose of making an ultimate inference about thepopulation as a whole. If, for example, there are three-- QUESTION: Yes, but that, I mean that would betrue about any inferential conclusion. I mean, strictlyit would be true I suppose even if accepting the hearsayconclusion is true. And there is an awful lot ofinference that does not fall within anyone's notion ofwhat is a sample or what is th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC in a technical sense a statistical method. MR. LEE: It is also true, however, JusticeSouter, of the method struck down by this Court in theHouse of Representatives case. And I probably didn't makethis clear enough the first time I mentioned it so let mejust make it one more quick time. Under the plan, it's clear that the CensusBureau proposed to estimate the roughly percent of thepopulation that it was not going to enumerate oneindividual housing unit at a time. As is indicated in theadministrative record in this case at page , it wasprecisely the nearest neighbor assumption that the Bureauhad in mind under the plan. So that truly is not adistinction between this particular method and the methodat issue in the House of Representatives case, and thusthe argument that's being proposed here really is anargument that would effect an end run around the House ofRepresentatives decision. QUESTION: Mr. Lee, as I understand it, theimputation method that was actually used after the census has the effect of counting non-households ashouseholds in some instances? MR. LEE: That's correct, Justice th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC O'Connor. QUESTION: And it counts one household severaltimes in some instances. MR. LEE: That's correct, because some of theseare different --QUESTION: And, all right. And the imputationis not based on the nearest neighbor. I mean, there is abig block of homes, and the assumption about who lives onit is not based on a nearest neighbor. MR. LEE: Ordinarily, as I understand it, it isthe nearest neighbor address that's used to estimate orimpute the address about which we know nothing. QUESTION: That's not my understanding, but wecan explore that with the other side. But I was concernedbecause it seems to be a method that does amount to whatwe said couldn't be done, in House of Representatives, ona much smaller scale. MR. LEE: That's exactly right and of course thescale of the practice is beside the point. QUESTION: Well, they say it isn't beside thepoint. I take it that their argument is basically inHouse of Representatives, what the census was trying to dowas to use a special kind of th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC inferential method to determine the population of anentire area. Well, here they are using an inferential methodto determine the population of an individual house. Now,if you don't make that distinction, and you say thatdistinction is irrelevant, we are left with yourdistinction which seems as Justice Souter just pointed outto be the same as all inference. In other words, I inferthat when you deliver pizza and it disappears, someone isin the house, because of the set of similar to pizza typecases that I have seen in the past. Or, you know, that'sI think what Justice Souter was bringing out, they have adifferent distinction. Now how do I deal with theproblem? MR. LEE: Well, Justice Breyer, let me mentiontwo reasons why that distinction doesn't get themanywhere. It doesn't get them anywhere number one becauseit simply isn't borne out in the statistical understandingof methods of sampling, in two senses. Number one, the statistical understanding ofsampling says generally, what statisticians understand tobe encompassed within the general category of sampling istaking information from a th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC part to make a statistical definition. QUESTION: You have the statistical definition,but my question was directed at a particular problem that,if I take your approach I can't get myself out of. Thatis, that your definition applies to all inference. Theirdefinition distinguishes among kinds of inference and theyhave their statistical support. MR. LEE: The problem with the distinction is,another problem with the distinction is that it's clearthat it would permit the Census Bureau to replicate the plan. If you buy that distinction, the Bureau canget back exactly to where it wanted to go in merelyby scaling back its nonresponse follow-up efforts. QUESTION: I don't understand the pizza man. Does the pizza man, does that inference consist ofimputing something from the part to the whole? I mean, Iwould think that's your answer to the pizza man example. It is an inference. QUESTION: No, no. It goes from the whole tothe parts. QUESTION: But it's not the same kind ofinference that is done by what you say is sampling,mainly, imputing information that belongs to a part th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC to the whole. That's not what's going on in the pizza mancase. MR. LEE: Maybe, Justice Scalia and JusticeBreyer, maybe I missed the pizza man example, but that maywell, that may well be a distinction. QUESTION: I didn't think the imputationinvolved any actual things like looking at, when pizza wasdelivered. It involves looking at what houses returned,take a big block in the district they are serving. Itinvolves looking at the houses that returned the form,looking at the houses where they reach people in afollow-up visit, and there are some they may might stillbe missing and so they impute the map. They don't go see if there is a car in thegarage or look at the pizza delivery. They arbitrarilysay we are going to impute from the data we have thatthere are X number of additional houses and that X numberof houses are occupied at a certain level of occupancy. That's what's going on. MR. LEE: That's exactly right. That'sprecisely right, Justice O'Connor. The pizza man knowshow many people live there. He is a proxy and he can givethat information to a census enumerator. But the end runproblem is illustrated by this th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC distinction; if the Census Bureau can use any methods thatfall within the definition that's now being proposed, theBureau can simply scale back slightly its nonresponsefollow-up effort and estimate increasing percentages ofthe population, up to and even exceeding the percentthat was proposed in . QUESTION: Mr. Lee, didn't it prove out that,after, that in the majority of these cases, something like percent, that they know for sure that these were houseswhere people lived? MR. LEE: Actually not, Justice Ginsburg. The percent figure is misleading and completely unhelpful. At page of the joint appendix the memorandum that's atissue there simply says that in percent of the statusimputed cases, status imputation was done with regard toenumerator returns or respondent returns. In other words,these were not mail-back returns. QUESTION: But you don't have a negativeshowing, either, that it wasn't accurate? And there wassomething Justice O'Connor said, and I'm not sure whetherI fully understand it. I thought that this imputation wasmade for people who didn't respond to the mailing, thatthe like comparison was with the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC group of people that were eventually counted, but thatthey were nonrespondents the first time around. MR. LEE: That's right. I think if understandyour question, Justice Ginsburg, I think that's right. They took information from initial nonrespondinghouseholds, used those as a sample of those who neverresponded, and some of those may well not have been homes,Justice O'Connor, some of those may well have beenduplicates, etc. If there are no further questions, Mr.Chief Justice, I'd like to reserve the remainder of mytime for rebuttal. QUESTION: Very well, Mr. Lee. Mr. Dellinger,we'll hear from you. ORAL ARGUMENT OF WALTER E. DELLINGERON BEHALF OF THE NORTH CAROLINA APPELLEES.MR. DELLINGER: May it please the Court, becauseNorth Carolina believes very strongly that the right timeto challenge the Census Bureau's planned use of astatistical method is before rather than after the censusis completed, let me begin by --QUESTION: Well, how could the challenge havebeen brought before Utah knew that the imputation figurescaused this problem? MR. DELLINGER: Under your decision in th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC House of Representatives, I think on page , you notethat citizens of Utah, you didn't specify the state, butcitizens who anticipate that the use of a method likeimputation, as suburbanites might, would dilute their inintrastate districting representation, are specificallysaid in House of Representatives to have authority tobring that suit. So I think that there would have beenparties able to litigate it. In response --QUESTION: Well, you can't bring a suit beforeyou know about what's going on. MR. DELLINGER: Yes, you can, Mr. Chief Justice. It is true, as you noted, that there might not be aspecial incentive on Utah's part, but they don't know theyare going to be the loser. They might have come outbetter or worse with or without imputation. But everygovernor, attorney general, states and cities arecarefully watching this. Many as you know sued in . So the suit could have been brought that, by any residentof a suburb could have had an expert allege that they aregoing to be diluted if you impute households because it'srural areas where the files are often damaged or --QUESTION: But Mr. Dellinger, a state can't, yousuggest there are suburban people, city th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC people, a state can't, until it knows what the result isgoing to be, and Congress used the words any aggrievedperson. The state, you are saying is the state can neverbring such a suit, because it is not aggrieved before. Itcan't predict that it's going to be aggrieved. It willknow only when the returns are in, so in effect, you aresaying this is not a question that the state has come toolate. It's not sooner or later, it's a never question forthe state. You're saying Congress simply did not authorizethe states to bring this kind of case. MR. DELLINGER: Justice Ginsburg, that iscorrect, if a state is unable to show, does not have theexperts about a forthcoming census that is unable todemonstrate that it will be aggrieved. How much we shouldworry about a nonaggrieved party not being able to obtainjudicial review is --QUESTION: They are aggrieved at the end of theline. MR. DELLINGER: They are now, but my point isthat if Utah had been watching this carefully, and as youknow, many states were involved in the ' litigation asamici and otherwise. Surely the Governor could have foundmany citizens of the State of Utah who, and this suititself includes individual th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC voters, some of whom may very well, the plaintiffs --QUESTION: The governor had no incentive to doso. MR. DELLINGER: I understand that. QUESTION: He could have gotten a stalking horseto, some suburbanite to bring the suit but he had nonotion that there was any reason to do that. MR. DELLINGER: It seems to me that that isexactly correct, but that it's exactly why any governor,major city mayor or others, these citizens, those whobrought suit in and did not include this,suburbanites are going to hurt, would want to sue, couldbring the suit, but in any event, they could alsoparticipate in the Bureau's process. Utah never made thisobjection. Now, here's why that's so unfair. It's simplythis. The, it is, we don't know who would have gainedthis seat if Utah had bought its objections to the CensusBureau before the census was conducted. QUESTION: Is there a statutory time period forpeople to challenge the Census Bureau proposed techniquesbefore the census is taken? Is there some provisionwhereby that challenge can be made? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. DELLINGER: Yes. The public law which was thebasis for the suit in is a permanent law, and thatsuit allows aggrieved parties to bring suit when thecensus produces its plan. So it's certainly at least --QUESTION: But is it a fact that somebody isaggrieved when you are at the stage of the Census Bureaujust saying this is what I plan to do? MR. DELLINGER: Yes. The law involved, thepublic law, that was a basis of the ' suit makes itclear that if you could say if they do that plan, that'sexactly how it works in House of Representatives, if youdo that plan, we expect that our district will be diluted.QUESTION: Well, does the law provide for somesort of administrative hearing before the Census Bureau,some sort of an exhaustion requirement? I thought that'swhat you were suggesting. If Utah had just brought thisto the attention of the Census Bureau. Is there somestructure for doing that? MR. DELLINGER: Yes. The Census Bureau doeshave a structure for doing this. I'm not saying that theyare foreclosed because they didn't participate in theadministrative process, but the Bureau was open to hearthese objections and the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC courts were open to hear them. QUESTION: But, you say now the Bureau, is thatwell publicized? Is there some person you can go to in theBureau and say I don't like what you are doing? MR. DELLINGER: Yes. And that is the exactprocess that is followed with every -- that's why theypublish the plan for the census. Now, if --QUESTION: It seems unfair to Utah, though, tosay that they are supposed to bring a suit before theyknow they have been hurt and why. How -- what are theysupposed to do? Of course they wouldn't come in ahead oftime. For all they know, the system would benefit them. MR. DELLINGER: Justice Breyer, those who suedin the House of Representatives litigation had a very thinbasis for knowing that they would be adversely affected. Indiana maybe wrong in thinking that --QUESTION: Well, of course, sometimes you couldguess in advance, but a lot of times you couldn't, andit's important that there be a fair method that treatsstates fairly. So why, why would it be fair, any way, tocut off those states that don't know they have beentreated unfairly and hurt, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC until they find out later? MR. DELLINGER: And here's why. Here's why it'snot unfair. Because the unfairness is so great for thedisruption on the other side. If it had been determined by the Bureau itselfor through litigation that imputation could not be used in, the Census Bureau absolutely would have used somemeans other than imputation to ascertain the enumerationof those established residential addresses whose recordswere damaged, missing or incomplete. There are in North Carolina approximately ,households that are established residential addresses onthe carefully pruned master address list. Those housesoften were visited by an enumerator in the, often thehouses were added where it was status imputation by afield enumerator during the enumeration process. But thenew form, because it wasn't on the master address listbefore being added, never caught up with the masteraddress list. So you have no residential addresses, and,and the Bureau absolutely would have had another method. I mean, even now theoretically they could goback and start again and say what are we going to do about, established residential addresses th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC for which we don't have input numbers, because at the endof this massive process, now, this is a process thatinvolves , enumerators, million households, oneand a half billion pieces of paper, imputation occurs atthe end of that process when all the records arecentralized. It began in , five censuses ago becausethat's when computers were able to process these cards. Damaged cards, now forms, can't be read. Thedata is discrepant or missing. It doesn't mean that theseare households that were visited six times. QUESTION: Mr. Dellinger, you have recognizedthat your argument is, as stated, that the position ofUtah that can't project what the returns will be, does nothave, does not qualify as an aggrieved person at the onlymoment in time when it can say that it's aggrieved. Ithink you had another justiciability issue, did you not?Because time is running and I think we grasp your positionthat it's too bad they are not aggrieved because they haveto come in in the beginning and not at the end. MR. DELLINGER: Yes. Justice Ginsburg, we arenot suggesting that these issues are immune from judicialreview. I believe someone could challenge th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC imputation and would. QUESTION: Are you sure they were not aggrievedat the beginning? I'm surprised that you -- I mean, is itnot an aggrievement for the State of Utah or for any statethat its districts are distorted? Even if it doesn't lose,you know, congressmen to another state, isn't thedistortation of the districts within that state agrievance of that state? MR. DELLINGER: That is a very helpful answer,and that is not -- a very helpful suggestion. And thathas not been by any means ruled out, nor has it been ruledout in my view that a state could say we believe we areentitled to have a fair process determine ourrepresentation. This process isn't fair. We don't knowhow it's going to come out. But this process is loony. Now, you would also see there's just a matter onthe merits. Congress has said in Title II, Section thatthe President's determination shall be final and thestates are entitled to that for the next period of timeuntil the next apportionment unless Congress itself acts,which they specifically provide for. That's surelyconstitutional because the Constitution itself inproviding that the census th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC need be done only every years puts a great stake inpermanency. Now, turning to the merits, it's striking theextent to which the issues in this case are anticipated bythe Court's decision in the Wisconsin case. At page inWisconsin --QUESTION: Before you go on to the merits, youhave nothing else to say then about justiciability? Imean, let's suppose they can file a suit. What's theremedy going to be at the end of the day at this stage? MR. DELLINGER: Oh, at this stage? QUESTION: Yes. MR. DELLINGER: Justice O'Connor, that is a verygood question. Utah seems to assume that if the case wentback to the District Court, overturning the DistrictCourt's ruling that imputation is satisfactory on thestatute and the Constitution, that you would simply takeout those occupancy figures for , householdsnationwide. It seems to me that the, that what ought to bedone is you return that to the Bureau and say now theremay be time to match up the missing forms that were addedlate in the enumeration process. There may be other waysto recover that data. Ways th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC that certainly would have been done if it were broughtbefore the census might still be brought now. So that wedon't, it seems utterly unfair to treat all of those aszero when some of them are houses that, an enumeratorcomes to Elm Street, it's not on his list, he goes in,interviews Ozzie, Harriet, the kids, sends in the form andit was corrupted or it didn't get matched up at the time,faced with that time deadline. It may now be available. We don't know who would prevail on that. On the statutory issue I think if you look atpage , the Court itself creates statistical adjustmentsas done in ' and ', and as they were done here --QUESTION: Page of what?MR. DELLINGER: I'm sorry, Justice Rehnquist. Ireferred earlier to the decision of Wisconsin vs. the Cityof New York, the unanimous opinion. On the statutoryissue, the Court says that the statistical adjustments in and which were imputation, hot-deck imputation,were an entirely different type than the adjustmentconsidered here, and they took place on a dramaticallysmaller scale. The Court also treats actual enumeration th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC in the Wisconsin case and speaks of actual enumeration atpage in the Wisconsin case as having been something thatthe Bureau has never, or the country has never actuallyachieved actual enumeration. It's never been whollysuccessful. Treating it clearly as the end result of theprocess, the right number and not as a method. Now, let me go right to one point. We do notbelieve that there are no constitutional limits on howCongress can conduct the census. Wisconsin says thatthere is virtually unlimited deference to Congress, butthey also set a standard that the congressional goal mustbe related to representation according to the respectivenumbers. The way I read that is this. A proposed censusas designed is not reasonably calculated to producedistributive accuracy among the states is constitutionallysuspect, because it will not produce an apportionmentaccording to the respective numbers. And that would be afatal flaw. Here, every imputed occupant and household is toan established residential address with a precisegeographical location. It was an effort to enumerateevery household in the country by using the bestinformation available on known household th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC addresses. This is historically consistent with what wedid when the neighbors are asked for their opinion, thepostal worker is asked for his opinion. You use proxyinformation. Here you take --QUESTION: Mr. Dellinger, this isn't really ause of proxy information. This isn't going to a neighborwho lives next door, this is using a statistical method tomake assumptions, isn't it? MR. DELLINGER: Yes, it is. QUESTION: I think you have to be realisticabout that. MR. DELLINGER: Yes, it is a statistical methodby which you take, when you have a known establishedhousehold address, the information from that, basicallythe next door neighbor, somewhat refined, JusticeO'Connor, the next door neighbor that was a nonrespondinghousehold of a similar type and they found over the yearsthat that information is more reliable than zero. Utah's position is that the Constitutionrequires when you have an address known to be occupied, ifyou put down that it's occupied by zero people, that's notan actual enumeration, that is literally a counterfactualenumeration from what one knows to be the case. This is aprocess where you th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC use one unit's characteristics to supply to another. QUESTION: That's just part of it. It also, italso imputes nonhouseholds as households. I mean, it doesa lot of things. MR. DELLINGER: It imputes only to knownaddresses. Thank you. QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. Dellinger. GeneralOlson, we'll hear from you.ORAL ARGUMENT OF THEODORE B. OLSONSOLICITOR GENERAL, DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICEON BEHALF OF THE FEDERAL APPELLEESGENERAL OLSON: Mr. Chief Justice and may itplease the Court: The Census Bureau has consistentlyutilized the imputation technique for drawing inferencesabout a tiny fraction of damaged, discrepant or missingpopulation data for the past five censuses. QUESTION: Do you agree that that's astatistical methodology or is it just a method of makingdeductions from circumstantial evidence? GENERAL OLSON: We agree that it is astatistical methodology, Justice Kennedy, and it's veryimportant in that context to focus on the words of thestatute. The words of the statute are that thestatistical method known as sampling is the one th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC that's prohibited with respect to the apportionment. That statement in the statute suggests thatother statistical methods are not prohibited by thestatuted, and that one particular statistical method, thatis the one that is known as sampling, which is in quotesin the statute, which imports that it's a term of art thatwas known by Congress to be a term of art. It was aphrase that was suggested by the Secretary himself in, when that statute was added, that exact phrase camefrom the Secretary. The Secretary was presumed to knowwhat that phrase meant. It is a term of art thatstatisticians know what it is. Furthermore --QUESTION: Well, I thought the statute also saidthat statistical adjustments pose a risk. GENERAL OLSON: It does not say that. In fact,the import of the statute, Justice Kennedy, is thatstatistical adjustments, and I will refer to what mycolleague Mr. Dellinger just referred to, at page inthe Wisconsin decision which was unanimous decision bythis Court just six years ago, distinguishing the samplingmethod that the Court was talking about in that case fromstatistical adjustments known as imputation, which isdescribed on pages and of the Respondent's brief,referred th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC to on those pages of the Supreme Court, this Court'sunanimous decision just six years ago as being an entirelydifferent thing. We would go back also to the fact that thisCourt unanimously held in that case that the Constitutionvests virtually unlimited discretion in Congressrespecting the manner in which the census shall beconducted, and that Congress has delegated its broadauthority to the Secretary to take the census in such formand content as he shall direct. Now, the Congress hasexercised that discretion by passing it on to theSecretary with the one limitation with respect, withrespect to one statistical method known as sampling. Now, at the same time, the Secretary wasproposing the prohibition of the sampling method; withrespect to the apportionment of the census in , theSecretary was planning the census, which was thefirst computerized census and the first time that theimputation method which we are talking about today wasused. So it's obvious that the Secretary did not believethat hot-deck imputation was sampling, because the verynext census three years later imputation was being used inthat census. And it was used again in , , ,and . th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC And with respect to , and , it was actuallyconsidered by this Court in connection with the Wisconsincase. It is widely understood in the industry thatsampling is a collection of, a collection techniquewhereby a sample, a fraction of the whole population isused to deduct -- deduce the actual whole population. It seemed to me that a metaphor that might beconsidered outside the context of population gatheringwould be if the Court asked the library of this Court toascertain the number of books, to conduct the number ofbooks in the Court's library, and the, but sampling wasnot permitted to do that, so that the librarian could notgo to every third shelf, multiply, count the books,multiply by three and get the census. But if thelibrarian went to those shelves and counted everyparticular volume and found that there was a space here onthat shelf, a space this big on the next shelf, and aspace this big on another shelf, for example, theimputation would be saying well, all the books or thebooks right next to this are this size, and therefore thatspace a book is missing, so we know we have a book, and wewill impute one book to that space or two th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC books to this space. So that the sampling technique iscompletely discrete from the imputation technique. We know that because the Secretary has alwaysregarded it that way. The Congress has given theauthority to this expert agency which has been conductingthe census for years and years and has drawn variousdifferent types of inferences which is what imputationsare. QUESTION: Why, just out of curiosity. I mean,I'd like to understand this better. In the library, youlook and see that everything around the book is a historybook and so then you impute the characteristic of being ahistory book to the one that's missing. That's youranalogy of what goes on here, is that right? GENERAL OLSON: Well, yes, I think that's anextension of it. In the example that I was giving youlook at the space and impute the size of the space by thebook that is immediately next to it. QUESTION: Okay. Why is it called statistical?Why isn't that just ordinary inference? Why -- you said wedo it statistically? What's statistical about it? GENERAL OLSON: Well, I'm not sure. That's agood question. I don't know the answer to th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC why it should be called statistics, because in my thinkingof it, it is drawing logical inferences from the dataavailable. Now Justice O'Connor, it is not creatingphantom homes. Most of these cases in, the statisticsindicated that with respect to one of the forms of theimputation, and this is in the record at the jointappendix, the information may be found in pages through of the joint appendix, that percent of thehousehold size imputation forms were enumerator forms withthe status of occupied homes.Now, the problem is that with respect to any,and the statistics are different, but in percent withrespect to occupancy imputation, percent with respectto status imputation. Each of these are attempting tofind actual people drawing from the closest comparableunit and it's one unit for each inference. It's notextrapolating from one unit to the whole population. The problem with the census is that there arebillions of pieces of paper as Mr. Dellinger indicated. Some people refuse to return the forms and their knownaddresses. Some people fill out the forms incorrectly. They may say occupied but zero. The enumerators might getbad information. In , a substantial portion of the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC entire State of California the returns were actuallyburned, and the Census Bureau in actually used aprocess to replace the , people that were not there. And one of the questions indicated, neighbors have beenused as proxies. Heads of households have been used asproxies. Postal service has been used as proxies. Theseare all means by which the postal, the Census Bureauattempts to develop the most accurate count it possiblycan. QUESTION: When you say heads of households havebeen used as proxies. Does that mean you go to the headof the household who appears at the door and ask him howmany other people live in the house? GENERAL OLSON: That's correct, Mr. ChiefJustice, and that was the way it was done in . QUESTION: That doesn't seem too statistical.GENERAL OLSON: Well, it's not necessarilystatistical. And I guess that, the fact is that as far asthe statute is concerned, there is only one techniquethat's prohibited. The technique of drawing inferencesthrough sampling is prohibited. It's prohibited probablybecause Congress feels that it might be subject tomanipulation. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: Yes. On the merits, I think we have toknow whether this so-called hot-deck imputation is a formof sampling. Which it appears that it might well be. Ithink that's the --GENERAL OLSON: Well, Justice O'Connor, theexpert agency to which Congress delegated this broadauthority doesn't believe so. That seems to me that thereshould be a substantial deference to the expertise of theagency. Not only that, but Congress with full awarenessthat hot-deck imputation has been used over the past --QUESTION: Why do we call it hot-deck? GENERAL OLSON: Hot-deck imputation isdistinguishable from cold-deck imputation in the sensethat information from the most current census and theactual neighborhood, the most current availableinformation for the actual census that's being developedis being used. Now where that term came from, I don'tknow. But that's what it means. But this methodology hasbeen used with the knowledge of Congress, with the fullknowledge of Congress, for the past five censuses. There was litigation over this matter, it'sreferred to as the Orr case in the briefs, where a seatmay have been allocated to Indiana or Florida, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC depending upon how the imputation process came out. Sothat litigation took place. Congress actually changed theterminology, Section , which provides the Secretarywith the authority to conduct the census in a manner thatthe Secretary thinks appropriate, in . Afterimputation had been used in two censuses already. QUESTION: Of course, against all of that, andI'm not sure why we should give deference to the agencyhere. They didn't conduct a rulemaking. They didn't haveany adjudication on this subject. That's just what theyhappened to do, right?GENERAL OLSON: Well, as a matter of fact, inthe unanimous decision of this Court in the Wisconsin casesix years ago, the court said substantial deference shouldbe owed to the agency. QUESTION: There's a lot of water over the damsince six years ago. GENERAL OLSON: But the reasoning of the Court,I would submit, is --QUESTION: I refer to Meade in particular. And, but wouldn't the deference to the agency, even ifthere is to be some, potentially be outweighed by aconstitutional doubt? If we thought that even if thisisn't sampling, it may well be not enumeration th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC within the meaning of the constitutional requirement, andgiven, given that constitutional doubt, we think the wisecourse is to interpret the word sampling as including,including this? GENERAL OLSON: Justice Scalia, not only theWisconsin case, but the other decisions of this Courtwhich have considered census have suggested that theframers of the Constitution by using the word enumerationdidn't mean a particular method by which the census wouldbe conducted, nor did it wish to constrain both theCongress and whomever the Congress may delegate to --QUESTION: Even sampling, presumably. GENERAL OLSON: Presumably. Possibly. QUESTION: Pretty accurate sampling, you know? GENERAL OLSON: Possibly, Justice Scalia. Butthat's nowhere close to that and this is not remotelysampling. QUESTION: Is this remotely estimation? GENERAL OLSON: This is not remotely estimation. This is drawing an inference with respect to oneparticular piece of data. We would agree that the grossestimation --QUESTION: Why isn't it estimation? Why th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC isn't it estimation? You estimate that there are so manypeople in this house because the house next door to it hasthat many people. You don't call that estimation? GENERAL OLSON: In each of these cases, JusticeScalia, the words can be changed and added to, but theprocess by which the framers analyzed this in framing theConstitution, the very first House of Representatives wasassigned according to an estimation, and the words actualenumeration were used to compare an actual count, aneffort to find the actual number of people by indulging ina process --QUESTION: That's why I asked about estimation. You say there is a difference in an estimation and adeduction, I suppose. GENERAL OLSON: What I think the Constitutionand courts with respect to the term actual enumeration, isan effort to go out and find a count. We, we pointed outthat the, the enumeration can mean listing by particularitems as used in the Ninth Amendment, the enumeratedpowers. It may be a process by which a count might betaken or it might simply refer to a census, find thepopulation. We submit that the Capitation Clause as wehave referred th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC to in our brief, which uses the word census andenumeration indistinguishably as synonyms, and in fact theAppellants in their brief, in their reply brief at page acknowledge that the words enumeration and census are usedin the Constitution interchangeably. Justice Scalia, it didn't seem, it does not seemthat the framers of the Constitution actually specified amethod. And in fact, what the Appellants were saying heretoday and are saying in their briefs, every censusconducted by asking people who may have lived next door ordrawing inferences from other pieces of information wouldnot have been the individual by individual count that --QUESTION: You think sampling --QUESTION: Sampling would have been okay as faras the Constitution is concerned? Real, real sampling? GENERAL OLSON: I think --QUESTION: We are going to do two-thirds of thestate and just guess that the other third is pretty muchlike that. GENERAL OLSON: Well, we are not remotely closeto that here. But with respect --QUESTION: I understand. But your th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC argument is that since enumeration doesn't mean anythingexcept census, sampling would be okay. GENERAL OLSON: From the standpoint of theConstitution, I think a reasonably good argument could bemade and the Government has in the past made it, thatsampling if it is consistent with the process of anattempt to find an actual count utilizing sophisticatedaccurate and nonmanipulatable techniques --QUESTION: Surely the term actual, though,before the word enumeration, narrows the idea that, whatmight otherwise be an enumeration. GENERAL OLSON: I believe it does and I think,Chief Justice, the District Court in this casedistinguished actual enumeration from the conjecturalapportionment that actually occurred in the Constitutionitself with respect to the first House of Representatives. What we are talking about here today, though, isan effort to, an effort to produce extremely conscientiousand meticulous, to count all of the households in theUnited States starting with a meticulously prepared masteraddress list. All of those people were submitted postoffice forms which has been authorized by Congress for acertain -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: That's not the issue. Can I ask you aquestion about the standing issue? I know that you in yourbrief do not, do not contest the standing. You say thatFranklin has decided it, because four justices thoughtthat there was standing on one basis, and four thoughtthere was standing on another basis. Which of those twobases do you agree with? GENERAL OLSON: Well, we --QUESTION: Do, do, do, is it your position thatthe President will have to do whatever, whatever, acceptwhatever revised census figures are submitted to him by,by the Secretary? GENERAL OLSON: If this Court is to, determinesthat the process by which the census was conductedwas inconsistent with the statute or inconsistent with theConstitution and orders the Secretary to take out theimputed numbers --QUESTION: Right. GENERAL OLSON: -- and deliver a differentpiece of information to the President --QUESTION: Right. GENERAL OLSON: -- the President will transmitthat certificate or that certified, those certifiedresults to Congress for the process. In th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC other words, in answer to your question, the Presidentwill do what this Court assumed in those cases that thePresident would do. QUESTION: He has told you that that's what hewill do? GENERAL OLSON: The President will --QUESTION: You see, because, I sort of wouldn'twant to make the people of North Carolina mad by takingaway one of their representatives. And were I President,I might well say, look at this judgment of the Court,doesn't run against me. It runs against my Secretary,everybody agrees, you know, that it's not binding upon me. It's sort of like a declaratory judgment. And I justthink too much time has passed and it would upset thingstoo much and I don't want to take away a representative. GENERAL OLSON: The President is willing toaccept the import, not only of the Franklin and the otherdecision that we referred to, but also if this Courtdecides that the process was unconstitutional orinconsistent with the statute, the President will acceptthat, this Court's judgment in that respect. QUESTION: So if another, if the next Presidentcomes along, we get another case like this, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC and the next President tells his Solicitor General, I willnot accept it, then we come out differently. GENERAL OLSON: Well, if, for that reason, ifMr. Chief Justice, the Court decides that that is not thekind of result that this Court can issue, because of thatpossibility, we'll accept that result as well. (Laughter.)GENERAL OLSON: But we think -- we think itis very unlikely for that to occur, because it is quiteclear that the Constitution intended to give considerableflexibility, did not want to freeze in a system theability of the Government. QUESTION: Mr. Olson, you are saying we canpresume the President will obey the law? GENERAL OLSON: Yes, Justice Stevens. QUESTION: What happens after that? He transmitsto the Congress, I take it the clerk of the Congress saysnot certified, the House has not certified the resultsyet? GENERAL OLSON: I'm not sure of the answer tothat question. I guess the answer is that is correct. Orno. That it has been certified and I would gather that itwould have to be a revised certification if that shouldoccur. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: You say you assume the President willobey the law. So you are accepting the -- you areaccepting the position that the President must, even if hedidn't want to, that the law requires him to transmitwhatever the Secretary gives him, is that right? GENERAL OLSON: What we are saying --QUESTION: Just answer that question yes or no. Do you take the position that the President must transmitwhat the Secretary gives it to him, and he has no, noobjection? GENERAL OLSON: I only can answer it this way,Justice Scalia. If this Court determines that the processbefore was unconstitutional or in violation of the statuteand the Secretary must redo it and if that information istransmitted to the Secretary, he will transmit that. QUESTION: That is not the question I asked. GENERAL OLSON: Then I misunderstood yourquestion. QUESTION: The question I asked is whether, yousay the President will obey the law. I take that to meanthat you feel the President is bound by law to transmitwhatever revised figures the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Secretary takes, is that correct? GENERAL OLSON: If it is based upon a decisionby this Court that the Court has the power to issue --QUESTION: To tell the Secretary. Let's assumewe have the power to tell the Secretary. Does thePresident acknowledge that he is bound by law to transmitwhatever figures the Secretary gives him? GENERAL OLSON: I think that that would onlyoccur in the context of this Court's decision. QUESTION: If not, he is not bound by law and Idon't think you are going to give that away. GENERAL OLSON: I don't think we need to giveanything away, Justice Scalia. We would be talking abouta context in which this Court came to the conclusion itcould render a jurisprudentially binding decision in acase in which there was redressability in that context. QUESTION: Fine. But that's a far cry by sayinghe is bound by law.QUESTION: You seem to be accepting Marbury andMadison.(Laughter.)GENERAL OLSON: Let me just summarize because mytime is about up. This Court's words th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC again, that the Constitution gave virtually unlimiteddiscretion to the Congress with respect to the manner inwhich the census would be --QUESTION: Extend your time by two minutes. I'll extend Mr. Lee's time by two minutes. GENERAL OLSON: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice. There is no evidence that the framers of the Constitutionwanted to bind themselves to a particular method ofcounting people. All of the evidence suggested that whatthe framers wanted to do was to have a reasonably reliableaccurate, reasonably accurate count of the citizens in themanner that the, that Congress would determine. Congressin the words of this Court has delegated all of that broadauthority to the Census Bureau. The Census Bureau, conscientiously using atechnique that they have been using consistently for years with the awareness of Congress, the GeneralAccounting Office, oversight committees and the actualawareness of this Court, as reflected in this decision, has demonstrated, developed a method that isreasonably accurate, uses statistical methods other thanthose known as sampling to get an accurate court. We urgethe Court to sustain that outcome. QUESTION: Thank you, General Olson. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Mr. Lee, you have five minutes remaining.REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF THOMAS R. LEEON BEHALF OF THE APPELLANTS.MR. LEE: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice. I havejust two or three quick points. The first is to clarifybriefly the record on an important issue. With all duerespect to the Solicitor General, the record does notindicate that the majority of the imputations here were inunits known to be occupied. The Bureau's memo at page of the jointappendix indicates that fully percent of the unitssubjected to imputation were the kinds of units thatJustice O'Connor's questions directed us to be concernedabout, units where after as many as six visits, censusenumerators were not able to determine whether the unit inquestion was a valid occupied housing unit and not aduplicate, not a seasonal home, not a home that happensnot to be occupied. Second, I would point the Court to anotherunanimous decision that this Court has handed down withregard to the census, and it's the Montana decision, andI'd like to read a brief quote from Montana and explainhow important I think it is here. This is from U.S.at . "To the extent that the potentially th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC divisive and complex issues associated with apportionmentcan be narrowed by the adoption of both procedural andsubstantive rules that are consistently applied year afteryear, the public is well served." That is precisely the goal of both the CensusAct and the Census Clause. To give us rules that can beconsistently applied year after year, not rules that willebb and flow with debates among statisticians, and that'swhere the Census Bureau is heading us here. The variablestandard that will be produced by a debate as to whether aparticular method of sampling is sufficiently premeditatedor follows a sufficiently premeditated intent to --QUESTION: What about what we said in theWisconsin vs. New York case by your opponent, Mr.Dellinger, where we referred to this very kind of action,this imputation, and indicated that that was vastlydifferent from the broader statistical?MR. LEE: I don't believe that was an issue inthat case, first of all, Justice O'Connor. Secondly,there isn't any reason to give either deference to theSecretary here or much less to congressional inaction fora very important reason. Imputation simply has not beenon anyone's radar th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC screen. It's been a nonentity because it's undisputedthat it impacted apportionment only once prior to thiscase, in . In , in , in , it had noimpact. Congress reenacted the statute, amended thestatute in . At that point in time, imputation had neveraffected apportionment to any degree whatsoever. Therewas no reason for anyone even to be focusing on it andtherefore no reason to give any deference here. I'd like to just close by saying a few briefwords about the constitutional question here. Mr. ChiefJustice, to go back to your question about the wordactual. The word actual is important, and it's importantbecause it's not just that the word enumeration is definedto mean an actual count and not an estimate. It's thatthis was a term of art. This phrase actual enumerationwas used consistently in the founding era, both incolonial assessments of population when they reportedtheir populations to boards of trade, and also in GreatBritain throughout the th century. James Madisonhimself referred to a distinction between an actualenumeration and a mere estimate. John Adams similarlysaid there is a difference between an authenticenumeration and a th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC mere estimate. Not only that, but the framers of theConstitution thought they were giving us a permanent,fixed standard. That's what they said they were doing andJames Madison said not only is it permanent and fixed, itis the way required by the Constitution and "which we areobliged to perform." It was a methodology; theyunderstood it as such; and they understood also that ithad its shortcomings. They knew that it would result inan undercount, that when you require a count, you aregoing to leave some people out. George Washington himself said look, weunderstand at the time of the first census that the realnumbers will exceed greatly the official returns. ThomasJefferson similarly said we know that the omissions in thecensus will be great. If they understood thoselimitations, then why did they do it? The answer is clear. They understood that that was a necessary price of apermanent, fixed, precise standard that would not besubject to manipulation, that would not be subject to thevicissitudes of debates among not only politicians, butstatisticians from year to year. And the impulse, theproper impulse of this Court's unanimous th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC decision in Montana --CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: Thank you, Mr. Lee. The case is submitted.(Whereupon, at : a.m., the case in theabove-entitled matter was submitted.) th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC 