 IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XUNITED STATES, Petitioner ::v. : No. -NAVAJO NATION. :- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XWashington, D.C.Monday, December , The above-entitled matter came on for oralargument before the Supreme Court of the United States at: a.m.APPEARANCES:EDWIN S. KNEEDLER, ESQ., Deputy Solicitor General,Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on behalf of the Petitioner.PAUL E. FRYE, ESQ., Albuquerque, New Mexico; on behalfof the Respondent. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC C O N T E N T SORAL ARGUMENT OF EDWIN S. KNEEDLER, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioner PAUL E. FRYE, ESQ.On behalf of the Respondent REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OFEDWIN S. KNEEDLER, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioner PAGE th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC P R O C E E D I N G S(: a.m.)JUSTICE STEVENS: The Court will hear argumentin the case of the United States against the Navajo Nationnow.Mr. Kneedler.ORAL ARGUMENT OF EDWIN S. KNEEDLERON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERMR. KNEEDLER: Justice Stevens, and may itplease the Court:In , the Secretary of the Interior, at therequest of the Navajo Nation and Peabody Coal Company,approved a package of lease amendments to two outstandingleases between the parties. With respect to the leaseprincipally at issue here, Lease number , the amendments increased the royalty to be paid by Peabodyfrom -and-a-half cents per ton to -and-a-half percentof the value of the coal, a more than six-fold increase inthe amount of the royalty. That new royalty level was thesame as the standard royalty on Federal coal leases, andit was well in excess of the then regulatory minimum thatthe Secretary had prescribed for what a tribe and a coalcompany could agree to, which was then only cents perton. The package of lease amendments also contained th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC numerous other provisions that were of benefit to thetribe, including amendments to the other lease, thatmore -- that approximately doubled the amount of theroyalty and a substantial increase in payments for wateruse at the mines.The Secretary's approval of the lease package in fully complied with the Mineral Leasing Act and theregulations that the Secretary has prescribed to governher approval of lease agreements under that act. Because there was no violation of any act ofCongress or regulation of an executive department, muchless one that could fairly be interpreted as mandating thepayment of damages by the Government, there is no cause ofaction in this case under the Tucker Act. The Court --QUESTION: Is there some other possible cause ofaction? Certainly it was unfortunate, to say the least,that the Secretary of the Interior at the time apparentlyhad private conversations that -- with representatives ofPeabody Coal to try to discourage the approval of the-dollar rate.MR. KNEEDLER: It was unfortunate, JusticeO'Connor. QUESTION: And is there any other remedy for thetribe potentially for this action? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. KNEEDLER: I think there -- it -- first ofall, I --QUESTION: Is there a lawsuit now pending --MR. KNEEDLER: Not -- not on that basis. QUESTION: -- to cover something else? MR. KNEEDLER: There's a -- there's a suit bythe tribe against Peabody, but -- but the -- as a remedyagainst the United States, the only suit would beconceivably an APA action.I -- I should point out that there was noregulation or statute that barred that communication atthe time. QUESTION: It's the APA action. I mean, isthis -- is this a proceeding -- was the proceedingsupposed to be a proceeding required by statute to be decided on a record?MR. KNEEDLER: No. No, it was not.QUESTION: Well, then that's an informaladjudication. MR. KNEEDLER: Right. I'm -- I'm not --QUESTION: Ex parte communications take placeall the time in those situations. So what's unfortunateabout it? Maybe it was unfortunate politically, but Imean, legally --MR. KNEEDLER: Right. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: -- is there any -- is there any rule,regulation, or anything in the APA that forbids anex parte communication --MR. KNEEDLER: There was not and there was --QUESTION: -- in this circumstance? MR. KNEEDLER: There was not and there was notin the Secretary's regulations at the time. I did notmean to imply --QUESTION: Would there be now?MR. KNEEDLER: No. QUESTION: I mean, I don't know any agency --MR. KNEEDLER: No. There's --QUESTION: -- that ever forbids of somethinglike that, but I might be wrong. I want to find out aboutit. MR. KNEEDLER: No. No, there's -- there's not. And -- and I didn't mean to imply that an APA suit wouldbe successful. All I meant to say is that that would bethe avenue in which to test that because an argument thatthat was a -- that that was a violation would beessentially --QUESTION: Violation of what?MR. KNEEDLER: Of -- of some -- some standard ofprocedure of fairness -- procedural fairness I supposethat a court would impose. Again, we don't think that a th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC court could do that. I -- I simply wanted to say thatif --QUESTION: There are some D.C. Circuit casesthat suggest when there's a contest between a valuableprivilege, that ex parte communications are not -- not tobe permitted.MR. KNEEDLER: But that is -- that is notsomething, first of all, that -- that appears in a statuteor regulation, and under Vermont Yankee, which I thinkcame after those D.C. Circuit decisions, it wouldn't beproper for a court to impose that on a -- onto an agency. In any event, there was no restriction here.QUESTION: The D.C. Circuit used to create itsown APA before -- before --(Laughter.) QUESTION: -- before Vermont Yankee.MR. KNEEDLER: That's -- that's correct. Andwe --(Laughter.) MR. KNEEDLER: We don't think there's any legalstandard, but even if there were, that sort of thing isnot something that would mandate the payment of -- ofdamages for a violation.QUESTION: The APA suit that you're -- you'reenvisioning as a potential -- that doesn't have any th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC dollars attached to it. That would be for declaratoryinjunction?MR. KNEEDLER: To -- or to set aside the -- theSecretary's subsequent approval of the lease or -- orsomething of that nature. QUESTION: Well, the lease is now expired, Itake it.MR. KNEEDLER: The lease --QUESTION: We're not still operating under thatsame lease, or are we?MR. KNEEDLER: We -- we are. The -- the tribeand the -- and the Peabody are still operating under thatsame lease. It was amended in . This was yearsafter the -- the communication that -- that you'rereferring to.QUESTION: And there's been no application toset aside the lease.MR. KNEEDLER: There has not. And -- and asI -- as I pointed out, there are numerous aspects of thelease package that was approved in -- in that areadvantageous to the -- to the tribe.QUESTION: And since the events, has the tribeobtained the authority to impose taxes that was notpreviously --MR. KNEEDLER: It -- well, the -- this Court in th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC in the Kerr-McGee case upheld the right of the Navajotribe to impose taxes, but that's without the Secretary'sapproval. And these lease agreement -- the leaseamendments in were negotiated and arrived at in -- inthe context of that decision. Now, the -- the tribe has waived its right tocollect taxes with respect to coal that goes to the -- agenerating station in -- in Arizona. The rest of thecoal, though, is subject to the -- to the tax. There's anoverall cap on that. QUESTION: Mr. Kneedler, just -- could I just goback for a second to the Secretary's privatecommunications with the -- the coal company? Is it yourposition that did not breach any fiduciary obligationwhatsoever?MR. KNEEDLER: No --QUESTION: They did not have a fiduciaryobligation to the tribes?MR. KNEEDLER: It did not -- it did not breach alegal fiduciary obligation. There is a -- there is asense in which everything that the Secretary of theInterior does or, for that matter, everything the UnitedStates Government does with respect to Indians is -- is ofa fiduciary nature in a moral sense. In a politicalsense -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: So at least in that respect, it'sdifferent from the Vermont Yankee situation. MR. KNEEDLER: Well, but -- but it's importantto look at the context in which this communicationoccurred. The -- what -- what the -- what the Secretarywas being asked to do or -- or what -- what the InteriorDepartment was being asked to do was to make an adjustmentunder an existing -- a term of the existing lease thatsaid that the royalty amount that was then prescribed,which was -and-a-half percent, was subject to areasonable adjustment by the Secretary after the -yearanniversary of the lease.QUESTION: Well, isn't it -- isn't it -- maybe Imisunderstand the facts. But wasn't it fairly clear thathad this conversation not taken place, that the adjustment would have been put into effect that the tribe wanted?MR. KNEEDLER: I don't think that's clear at allbecause the -- Peabody Coal Company -- aside from thiscommunication, Peabody Coal Company sent the letter to theSecretary of the Interior in early July of in -- inwhich the representative of Peabody said, it appears thatthe tribe believes that there's an imminent decision inits favor on appeal from the local BIA area directorssetting the percent rate.QUESTION: Which was true, wasn't it? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. KNEEDLER: Well, yes. That was -- that wastrue. But that's a subordinate official in the InteriorDepartment. The Secretary of the Interior -- as a matterof constitutional law, and as a matter of the regulationsin effect at the time, the Secretary of the Interior hadthe authority to take control of any matter that was thenpending in the Department. But my important -- the important point is thatin that letter, Peabody Coal Company requested theSecretary to assume jurisdiction over the matter, and toeither rule in its favor or, failing that, to -- to sendthe parties -- request the parties to negotiate further,which is exactly what happened.QUESTION: And that letter --MR. KNEEDLER: That letter -- that letter was --a copy of that letter was sent to the Navajo Nation. Andit -- it subsequently is clear that -- depositiontestimony of Mr. Nelson, which is in the joint appendix inthis case, makes it clear that he understood. He was --he was a special assistant to the chairman of the NavajoNation at the time. It makes it clear that -- that theNavajo Nation had understood that the Secretary preferredfor them to go back to negotiate, which was a -- aperfectly reasonable response by the Secretary of theInterior in that situation. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC The -- the increase of the royalty rate from --from approximately percent or a little over percent to percent was unilateral by the area director. It --there was not a -- input by -- by Peabody at that time,even though the area director communicated with --QUESTION: Did both the tribe and Peabodyunderstand what was being considered, the increase thathad been recommended by the junior people in theDepartment? MR. KNEEDLER: Yes. That -- that -- the -- thearea director's increase of -- to percent, anadjustment of percent, was appealed by -- was appealedby Peabody and the utilities that -- that are served byPeabody. And that appeal was briefed to the AssistantSecretary, and it was pending. And then in -- in July that was -- that area director's decision was in . The briefing was, I think, about months later, and thenin July of , the -- is -- is when the Secretaryrequested the Assistant Secretary to put off deciding thisand have the parties negotiate. And they reached atentative agreement within -- within a month. It was --QUESTION: If -- if Fritz, the AssistantSecretary, had signed off on the percent, would therehave been a further -- further recourse by --MR. KNEEDLER: The -- the Secretary could have th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC overruled that. The -- the Secretary under the -- underthe governing regulations that we quote in our brief theSecretary retained the authority to overrule any decisionby -- by the Assistant Secretary. QUESTION: Mr. -- I'm sorry. QUESTION: There was -- you mentioned in yourbrief another route, appellate route, that could have beentaken in this case which would have rendered a finaldecision, one not subject to the Secretary's --MR. KNEEDLER: No. I believe that could havestill been subject to the Secretary's determination. What -- what the Navajo Nation could have done, if it didnot want to continue with negotiations, was to requestthat the matter be transferred from this informal appealsprocess to the Assistant Secretary to a formal appeals process which goes to the Interior Board of IndianAppeals. QUESTION: Well, I think --MR. KNEEDLER: At that point the Secretary couldhave assumed jurisdiction of the matter from the IBIAunder the same regulation I referred to. The Secretaryalways had it within his power to -- to take -- takecognizance of a case and not leave it with the -- with theboard. QUESTION: Even if the court -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. KNEEDLER: There was a prohibition againstex parte contacts in that formal adjudication, butotherwise the Secretary retained the authority to -- totake the case. QUESTION: Mr. -- Mr. Kneedler, did the -- wasthe Secretary's approval required on the contract thatincluded, or the -- the revision that included the-and-a-half percent royalty rate?MR. KNEEDLER: Well, there were two leases, andthe Secretary's approval was required. But the reason wasdifferent for the two. In the -- under the leaseprincipally at issue here, --QUESTION: Let's just take that one. MR. KNEEDLER: -- the -- the lease itself had aclause that said that the royalty was subject to a reasonable adjustmentQUESTION: Right.MR. KNEEDLER: -- by the Secretary.QUESTION: Right.MR. KNEEDLER: As to that, we believe that therecould be no claim under the Tucker Act for the -- for thefundamental reason that that is not a -- a duty that isprescribed by an act of Congress, or a regulation underthe Tucker Act. QUESTION: No, no. I -- I understand. Wasn't th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC that also subject to the general statutory requirementthat these leases be approved by the Secretary? They --you know, it would be negotiated by the tribes, butultimately didn't it require the Secretary's approval?MR. KNEEDLER: It -- it may well have and thatwas not -- that was not addressed. The basis of the claimhere was --QUESTION: Well --MR. KNEEDLER: -- that the Secretary had -- hada duty under the lease.QUESTION: -- let -- let me just assume and --and maybe I shouldn't do this, but you just briefly atleast assume that the Secretary's approval was required asa -- a matter of statute. Would that approvalresponsibility -- in your judgment -- carry any duty toward the tribe, anything comparable to a fiduciary dutytoward the tribe not to approve an amendment if thatamendment was not as good as the -- in the Secretary'sjudgment, the tribe could have gotten?MR. KNEEDLER: No. There's -- in -- in our viewthere is no duty under this statute to maximize returns tothe tribe.QUESTION: What -- Tell -- let me ask you --maybe it would be easier if I asked you kind of theconverse question. What responsibility does the approval th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC responsibility include? In other words, is it merelyministerial, or does it imply any duty at all toward thetribe?MR. KNEEDLER: I don't know that I would call itministerial, but -- but the statute is -- is rather barein its terms. It just says that the -- that the tribe,through its council -- and this is -- this is a statute ofgeneral application -- may -- with the approval of theSecretary -- lease its land for coal purposes. Whatthe -- what the preconditions for the Secretary to givehis approval are then and now is a matter for theSecretary to flesh out by regulations. QUESTION: So --QUESTION: Well, is -- does the United States,though, have some general duty of trust to the tribe? MR. KNEEDLER: I think it would be fair to saythat -- that there is -- that there is a -- as I said, ageneral moral and political duty. QUESTION: Sure. And so when the Secretary hasto approve a lease, should that general duty be kept inmind as part of that process?MR. KNEEDLER: Surely. Surely, and again we'renot -- we're -- we quite agree that as -- that as a matterof what -- what judgment should -- should inform theSecretary in her approval of the lease. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: No. But suppose the Government has ageneral moral and political duty to the entire citizenrynot to lease Government land at -- at bandit rates Iassume.action.is --MR. KNEEDLER: Well --QUESTION: But that -- but that doesn't --MR. KNEEDLER: Yes, but I meant --QUESTION: That doesn't give rise to a cause ofMR. KNEEDLER: That -- that's true. Here thereQUESTION: Nor -- nor is there any specificstatute, is there? I mean, I -- I think the -- the pointthat Justice O'Connor is -- is raising is -- is my point. Once you get a specific statutory obligation, assuming that approval carries some obligation of care, inquiry,whatever, doesn't that carry with it some of the duty thatwe normally have in mind when we talk about the trustduty, and doesn't that take it out of the sphere of themerely moral and the merely political into the legal?MR. KNEEDLER: Well, that -- let me answer itthis way. The Secretary -- as I said, I believe it's upto the Secretary to decide how to flesh out the regime forher approval of leases and she has done this in theregulations including, importantly, now and at the time th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC this lease was -- lease amendments were approved, aminimum royalty amount. At the time, it was just centsper ton. Now, it's -and-a-half percent, which is thestandard rate of --QUESTION: But a minimum -- a minimum is aminimum.MR. KNEEDLER: No.QUESTION: So there's still something to argueabout there, I would --MR. KNEEDLER: Well, no. And it's important tounderstand why -- why I -- I think that's not correct theway the Secretary's regulations are written. This act has a number of goals, one of which isrevenue for the tribe, but another is tribal self-determination, and this is clear from the legislative history of the Indian Mineral Leasing Act as described in and described by this Court in its Cotton Petroleumdecision. So the -- the point is that it is up to thetribe to enter into agreements subject to approval by theSecretary. QUESTION: Well, then I -- I think theimplication of your argument is that the approval ispurely ministerial. In other words, if the tribe is theresponsible party, then the Government is not.MR. KNEEDLER: Well, the -- the -- it's actually th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC something of a hybrid I -- I believe. And what theSecretary has chosen to impose on herself, which is notthe same thing as to whether it's -- it's legallyenforceable, is a set of regulations that would govern theway in which she approves a lease. And with respect to --again, with respect to royalty, there is a specificregulation that says -and-a-half percent. What -- the way the Secretary has -- hasaccommodated these competing goals is that there is a -- aminimum set of standards to which any agreement between atribe and a lessee enter into, any -- a set of standardsthat must be satisfied. Beyond that -- beyond those --satisfaction of those standards, it is up to the tribe andthe -- and the lessee --QUESTION: Well, all right. That's, I take it,their argument -- as I understand their argument, or partof it anyway, is that if you put -- we hold property intrust for the tribe. That by itself doesn't do much forthem. That's Mitchell I. MR. KNEEDLER: Right. QUESTION: But when you get a whole lot of verydetailed rules and regulations about how the Governmentneeds to behave, well, then, you find that there is aspecific duty for the Government even if it isn't quite inthose rules and regulations to behave like a trustee of a th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC trust, i.e., use prudent care, reasonable care, whateverthe standards are. So they're saying whatever the details of theregs are here, there certainly was a highly detailed setof something that governed how the Government would behavein this particular lease complexity, a very complicatedsituation. And therefore, regardless of what they said,there was also, because of that complexity, an obligationfor the Government to use reasonable, prudent care nomatter what the regs said. MR. KNEEDLER: Well --QUESTION: And that's what they didn't do here. You see, it's just like Mitchell II.MR. KNEEDLER: But it's -- it's not just likeMitchell II.QUESTION: All right. Now, what's your responseto that? MR. KNEEDLER: And I -- and I think theimportant difference is in Mitchell II the Court recited anumber of specific statutory duties -- statutory andregulatory duties that were directed at assuring aparticular amount of income for the tribe under thecircumstances. Fair market value for a right-of-way. Sustained yield management of -- of timber harvest. Specific statutory directives to take into account the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC financial needs of the beneficiaries whose allotments weregoing to be logged off.QUESTION: I see where you're going. I seewhere you're going with that. But that reads Mitchell IIvery narrowly. And it is as if in that forest filled withGovernment foresters that the tribe members had to stayout of, one day a forester working for the Governmentintroduces some termites into the trees, and lo andbehold, there doesn't happen to be a particular anti-termite regulation. I think you'd read Mitchell II aseven though there's no anti-termite regulation, stillthere was a duty of care there for the Government not tobehave that way. MR. KNEEDLER: I -- I -- I don't think so. Imean, again, there may be -- there may be a tort action. The -- the Tucker Act does not cover the entireuniverse --QUESTION: So if I think --QUESTION: Termites are good for trees. (Laughter.) QUESTION: You know, they're -- they're not goodfor houses, but they're good for trees. (Laughter.) QUESTION: No. These are bad anti-treetermites. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC (Laughter.) MR. KNEEDLER: But the --QUESTION: If -- if I read Mitchell II somewhatmore broadly and thought that there was an obligationthere to behave like a trustee even if I couldn't pin itto a particular reg, this particular action, would I thenhave to decide against you here?MR. KNEEDLER: Well, no, because we -- we thinkthat there was -- that the Secretary's approval of the --of the lease amendments in satisfied a duty ofreasonable prudence. The standard that was articulated inthe documents presented to the Secretary for approvalwas -- was whether the lease package could be regarded asa reasonable exercise of -- of business judgment. Thiswas set forward --QUESTION: Well, but that -- that argument sortof takes the lease terms simply in the context of the --the -and-a-half percent minimum that the Secretary hadtaken. But it seems to me that they have a strongerargument and it is closer to the termite argument. Andthe stronger argument is whatever your obligations as atrustee may be under the approval responsibility, you atleast have an obligation not to skew the bargainingprocess in a way that hurts us when you know that is whatit will do. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC And as I understand the argument about theex parte communication, it's not that the ex partecommunication was per se unlawful. It -- it clearlywasn't. The argument is that the ex parte communicationresulted in action by the Secretary that, in effect,induced the tribe to take a different negotiating posturefrom the one it would have taken. And therefore, theirargument is like the termite argument: You're notsupposed to introduce bad termites into the forest, andyou're not supposed to take action as a minimum that hurtsus as negotiators.What is your response to that? MR. KNEEDLER: Well, several things. The -- thetermite example is different, first of all, in that it hasan immediate physical impact on the -- on the trees -- the substance of the trust. What you're describing is aprocedural -- is -- is at bottom a procedural --QUESTION: It makes trees less valuable. Thismakes coal less valuable under the contract. They gethurt. MR. KNEEDLER: Well, the -- the -- secondly,the -- there is no indication that the substance of thecommunications was any different from the -- from what thetribe knew anyway, which was that Peabody had requestedthe Secretary not to act and to allow the parties to th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC return to negotiations. But beyond that, when they --then the -- this -- this -- these are all things thathappened in and . That was superseded by theparties' lease agreement in . In , as part of the lease agreement that wassubmitted to the Secretary and that the Navajo Nationrequested that the Secretary approve, the area director'sdecision that initially established a percent rateunilaterally was vacated and Peabody's appeal wasdismissed. That wiped the slate clean for everything thathappened up until then.The question then is what is -- was the lease amendment package proper? And under Mitchell, as wesee it, unless there is a violation of a specificstatutory or regulatory provision in the approval of the lease, there cannot be a claim for money damages under theTucker Act. And --QUESTION: Mr. Kneedler, you had started toexplain that the -- the responsibility, or the authoritycame out of the lease itself with respect to -- to themain lease --MR. KNEEDLER: Right. QUESTION: -- that we're talking about. Butthen you said that there was also Secretary approvalinvolved in the one where it wasn't a term of the lease. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC I think you started to say that.MR. KNEEDLER: Yes. In -- in , what theparties presented to the Secretary was not a proposal toadjust the royalty under the -- Article VI of the existinglease. It was a set of new amendments that, among otherthings, superseded that clause of the lease and put inplace another dispute resolution mechanism for adjustingthe royalties in the future. As part of that, the -- thecontroversy with respect to the -- to adjustment was -- was eliminated. But that package provided well in excess ofthe minimum royalty rate both for the lease and alsothe other lease with -- for the Navajo with respect tocoal it owned jointly with the Hopi Tribe. And thatsatisfied the specific regulatory standard that the Secretary had prescribed for deciding when she wouldapprove lease agreements.QUESTION: What I can't quite understand withreference to your position as to the correct reading ofMitchell II is this: It seems to me you say that even ifthere's a breach of a fiduciary duty, there still has tobe some specific statute or regulation which we violate,and that specific statute or regulation must imply thatthere is a cause of action for damages. That makes thefiduciary component quite irrelevant. Either there's a th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC specific statute, or there isn't. MR. KNEEDLER: No, I don't think it does becauseit -- the fiduciary -- the important discussion inMitchell II of the fiduciary responsibility had to do withwhether the specific statutory or regulatory duty -- whichis prong one -- could in turn be fairly interpreted torequirement -- require the payment of compensation. That's where the fiduciary obligation comes in. But this case fails at the first step becausethere is no specific statutory or regulatory provisionthat was violated. There's no need to get to the secondstep in the analysis on that theory. And this specificity requirement was reflectedin Testan and Sheehan, both of which were decided priorto -- to Mitchell. Both say that there has to be a right granted with specificity. It's also confirmed by things that have happenedsince then. That's the way the Federal Circuit in theBrown and Pawnee decisions that we -- that were cited inthe decision below looked at Mitchell -- Mitchell II. There had to be a specific provision that was violated.And that's also entirely consistent with lastyear's decision in the Gonzaga case under -- under thevery parallel situation of where the Court said therehas to be a -- a right granted with specificity -- an th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC entitlement granted with specificity -- where the questionis whether a -- a -- another Federal statute gives rise toa cause of action under a general cause of action creatinga statute, in that case . But we think the analysisis directly parallel. If I may, I'd like to reserve the balance of mytime for rebuttal. QUESTION: Mr. Frye.ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAUL E. FRYEON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTMR. FRYE: In listening -- Mr. -- JusticeStevens, and may it please the Court:In listening to the Government, it's clear thatthe Government has not come to terms yet with the basicprinciple established in Mitchell II, that where Congress gives the Federal Government control of Indian property,that control necessarily implicates trust duties. Andviolations of trust duties, when the Government isexercising responsibilities, within the contours of thosestatutes and regulations, gives rise to a claim for moneydamages in the Court of Federal Claims. That's what'smissing. QUESTION: Mr. Frye, the Government has stressedthat this is not a control situation like Mitchell II. Rather, like Mitchell I, one of the objectives of this th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC legislation of IMLA was to give the tribe the managementand control authority, and the Government had just asecondary role of approving at the end of the road. Butunlike the -- the United States was running the timberoperation. Here, it's the tribe that's negotiating thelease. It seems to me that's quite different. MR. FRYE: That's a two-part question. One,after the Navajo tribe signed the coal lease in , ithad absolutely no control over anything. I'd like to readyou one -- just one regulation, one operating regulation,that the Secretary has. It empowers -- and this is atpage of our lodging. This is BLM's responsibility, noteven BIA who has the principal responsibility. BLM hasthe responsibility to, quote, oversee exploration,development, production, resource recovery and protection, diligent development, continued operation, preparation,handling, product verification, and abandonmentoperations.QUESTION: Oversee. What does oversee mean? Did it do that or oversee it? I mean --MR. FRYE: Oh, the Secretary doesn't mine coalanymore than the BIA cuts timber, but BIA sells timber toprivate timber companies to do the timber-cutting. TheBIA oversees that timber production in the same way itoversees the coal operation. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: I'm not sure that that's anythingmore specific than the general trust responsibility thatthe United States has. It has to oversee the dispositionof all the lands that it holds in trust, but I'm not surethat that's the kind of control that -- that we weretalking about in Mitchell II.MR. FRYE: Well, Mitchell II control isabsolutely parallel. The same --QUESTION: What -- what about --MR. FRYE: Yes, the second part of yourquestion. QUESTION: The purpose of IMLA was to help theIndians exercise their own sovereignty.MR. FRYE: IMLA has come before this Courtseveral times. In the first case, in the Poafpybitty case in , the Government looked at IMLA and said thisstatute imposes trust responsibilities and trust duties onthe Government. It said that three times in thatdecision.QUESTION: Does it waive sovereign immunity inthe statute for purposes of monetary damages against theGovernment? It doesn't do so expressly.MR. FRYE: It doesn't do so expressly just asthe -- the timber statutes didn't do so expressly inMitchell II. But it has that same overlay of th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC comprehensive Federal control and regulation. QUESTION: That's true, but -- but theGovernment had a good response to my question, which wasthat if, in fact, I was agreeing with you for the purposesof interpreting Mitchell II hypothetically, they said, youknow, this is a procedure, and it's a procedure thatyou're complaining was violated. And that's significantfor two reasons. First, it would read this trustresponsibility as creating procedures in identicalcircumstances where a party is an Indian tribe that do notexist in respect to anyone else, and secondly, it would befinding a -- money damages, $ million in fact, for aviolation of this -- one of these procedural regulations.And I cannot even think -- though there may besome, I cannot think of an instance where a private person who really has been badly hurt can recover money damagesfrom the Government where what the Government did was notfollow the right procedure. So it's new procedures, plusthe money damages, and you'd have to overcome all thosehurdles.MR. FRYE: Okay. We are not complaining,Justice Breyer, about any procedural problem. What we arecomplaining is -- is about the Secretary colluding withPeabody Coal Company to swindle the Navajo Nation. That'swhat this case is all about. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: That's -- that's -- tell me a littlebit less pejoratively and --MR. FRYE: I will tell you. QUESTION: -- more specifically. Yes.MR. FRYE: Yes. The -- the memorandum thatSecretary Hodel hand-delivered to Fritz, every word ofthat was penned by Peabody's lawyers in -- in theadministrative appeal, and that's shown in the jointappendix --QUESTION: Again, that's -- you know, in aparticular context, that might be terrible, but whenyou're talking about administration, it's a very commonthing for parties to submit proposed findings, et cetera. So I don't know about this circumstance, but that -- thatin and of itself is -- is not obviously it. MR. FRYE: That wasn't my entire answer.Following that, the Secretary of the Interiorbasically instructed his subordinate to lie to the NavajoNation so it would not know what went on. The -- and thatsubordinate was the last person that the Navajo Nationwould have expected to deceive it. That person had workedwith Navajo Chairman Peterson Zah on the reservation andhad named his son Peterson Zah Vollmann. After that, the negotiations were skewed, asJustice Souter mentioned. The Navajo Nation thought, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC because of these odd communications coming fromWashington, that its trustee thought that the percentfigure was vulnerable on the merits. We're talking abouta breach of trust. And the -- the question is whetherthe --QUESTION: Maybe he did think it was vulnerableon the merits. I mean, couldn't the Secretary think that?MR. FRYE: The record -- the record showsabsolutely no consideration by the Secretary. Thestandard that was at play here --QUESTION: Well, isn't -- isn't that -- isn'tthat was -- isn't that the representation that Peabodymade to the Secretary, that that was just an enormousincrease in the -- in the fee? MR. FRYE: Peabody actually -- the letter that Peabody wrote to Secretary Hodel that was mentioned by mybrother Kneedler actually didn't get to Hodel's office. The record shows that that -- that that letter was routeddirectly to Fritz, code on the document, and thatFritz gave it to his solicitors who were working on hisopinion, and those --QUESTION: No. I understand that. But -- butdon't you think in the ex parte -- the -- the oralex parte contact, the same point was made? What --MR. FRYE: We have no idea what was made. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: Well, what do you guess they made? I mean, why wouldn't they have made the same point thatwas in their letter? My goodness, all of a sudden,you're -- you're upping our -- our cost times? I mean,you know, that's incredible. MR. FRYE: That's -- that's not the context ofthis discussion. The -- the royalty rate was upped to percent a year before. We had had extensive briefing,studies done by the Department of the Interior, all ofwhich said that percent was the right number. TheSecretary of the Interior had no basis for saying it wasthe wrong number.QUESTION: What is the number today? MR. FRYE: The number today --QUESTION: Today. MR. FRYE: -- is less than the Federal minimumof -and-a-half percent. And we proved that, and that'sin our proposed finding of fact number that it was --QUESTION: What -- has the tribe asked to setaside this lease?MR. FRYE: We have not. We didn't learn aboutthis until discovery in this case.QUESTION: Well, you know about it now. I mean,does the tribe want out from under this lease?MR. FRYE: We have sued Peabody, and there are th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC aspects of that that deal with reformation of the lease.But we don't have any ability to get past damages from theGovernment for breach of trust for the time period forwhich this activity was concealed.QUESTION: I don't -- I don't understand whatthe breach of trust consists of. Number one, it -- you --you acknowledge it doesn't consist in the -- in the exparte contract. I -- contact. I assume that any trusteedoes -- does not have an obligation to call in the -- thecestui que trust whenever -- whenever a lessee wants totalk about something. I'm sure many trustees deal exparte.MR. FRYE: No -- no trustee has the ability tobe disloyal, actively disloyal to the -- to thebeneficiary.QUESTION: I'm not -- I'm not talking aboutactively -- I'm just talking about the ex parte --receiving ex parte presentations --MR. FRYE: The Secretary --QUESTION: -- from somebody who wants -- whowants a lease altered. Can -- can an ordinary trustee dothat? MR. FRYE: The -- the Secretary and any ordinarytrustee can receive all the communications he wants.QUESTION: Absolutely. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. FRYE: If the question is what the Secretarydid in response to that --QUESTION: All right, and so -- so then you --you're down to what the Secretary did in response. Thatdepends on what the Secretary's obligation is, I -- Ipresume.MR. FRYE: Yes. QUESTION: And as I read the statute andregulations, the Secretary's only obligation was to assurethat a very low minimum was -- was complied with. Andafter that, the negotiation was up to the tribe. Is thata fair representation of -- of what the statute and regsrequire?MR. FRYE: The statutes and regulations didrequire minimum royalty rates, and as this Court held --QUESTION: Which are very low. MR. FRYE: Very low. Absurdly low. I mean,the -- the Government would say to this Court if we hadapproved -- if we had misled the Navajo Nation so badlythat it would have taken cents a ton, we could approvethe cents a ton because the minimum royalty rate was cents a ton even though we knew it was worth $ a tonin royalty.QUESTION: Yes, but -- I'm actually havingexactly the same problem. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. FRYE: Okay. QUESTION: What precisely is it that breachedthe trust, without any characterization? MR. FRYE: Yes. QUESTION: Who said -- what is the act that'ssupposed to be the breach of the fiduciary duty? It'snot, you're saying now, the procedure of ex partecommunication. It is -- and then you said there was amisrepresentation. What was that? I mean, are thereother things too?MR. FRYE: Yes. There are a variety of thingsthat led the tribe to accept Peabody's proposed packageof -- of lease concessions from our standpoint, and the --the breach --QUESTION: Well, would you --MR. FRYE: -- the culminating events of thebreach --QUESTION: Can I interrupt you, sir? Could --could you specify what the variety is because I want toknow the same thing Justice Breyer wants to know. MR. FRYE: Yes. The culminating event was theapproval of a lease for a less than -and-a-half percentroyalty rate where the tribe gives up -- has a negativebonus of $ million in back --QUESTION: All right. But that's -- that's a th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC lease that the -- that the tribe at that point had agreedto. Would you specify what the Government did or said,number one, that led the tribe to act differently from theway it would have acted otherwise? MR. FRYE: But for the Secretary's intervention, percent would have been slipped in as the new royaltyrate.QUESTION: What intervention? Precisely what?MR. FRYE: The -- the memo that Peabody'slawyers wrote that Secretary Hodel signed telling thedeciding official to stop action.QUESTION: Well, now wait a minute. When --when the Secretary exercises his authority to approveleases, is it your -- is it your contention that the onlyobligation -- not to approve leases, but to -- but to --to give effect to that provision of the lease which allowshim to increase the lease rates -- that's what we'retalking about here. When he -- when he approaches thatobligation, is it your contention that his only duty is tothe tribe?MR. FRYE: Yes. That -- that is the --QUESTION: He should raise it -- he should raiseit , percent if he can get away with it? MR. FRYE: The --QUESTION: Surely -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. FRYE: The key modifier is if he can getaway with it. QUESTION: -- I just don't read it that way. Itseems to me that no -- anybody would be crazy to enterinto a lease like that. One would expect that the -- thatthe Secretary would act fairly. Sure, take into accountwhat's fair for the tribe, but also what's fair for thecoal company that entered into a lease at a much lowerrate earlier at arm's length. You think he -- you thinkthe Secretary couldn't take into account what's fair forthe coal company at all.MR. FRYE: What the Secretary had to take intoaccount is provided by the language of Article VI of thelease. The adjustment had to be reasonable. And to --QUESTION: Okay. MR. FRYE: And to find that out, theSecretary's --QUESTION: And reasonable doesn't mean whateverwill give the tribe the most money. It also certainlyincludes what -- what's fair for the -- for the personwho -- on the other side of the lease who -- who issuddenly getting socked with a -fold increase. I don'tthink that's unreasonable at all for the Secretary to takethat into account. MR. FRYE: The Secretary can't doff his trust th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC responsibilities by donning the mantel of anadministrator. If it's reasonable, that means I thinknecessarily that the Secretary can't set it so high as tobankrupt the operation and stop the coal mining.QUESTION: But that may be, but there must be astatute -- there must be a statute that turned over to theSecretary or his office the job of interpreting that wordreasonable in the lease. What -- what's that statute?MR. FRYE: That would be the Indian MineralLeasing Act.QUESTION: And it gives the Secretary -- andyou're saying that that statute, when it gives theSecretary the power to decide what is or is not reasonableunder the lease, means that the Secretary must really justtake the Indians' point of view into account? MR. FRYE: Absolutely not. He needs to exerciseindependent judgment to make sure that whatever theroyalty rate that he is going to substitute for theoriginal one is reasonable. QUESTION: Is fair, in other words, toeverybody.MR. FRYE: I think fair is not a badcharacterization. Fair and reasonable. QUESTION: Okay. Then -- well, but then what'sthe -- the breach here? He was doing apparently what he th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC thought was fair, I guess. I mean, maybe it was -- maybehe was wrong, but --MR. FRYE: The Secretary was not doing what hethought was fair. The -- Peabody sent his best friend inthere with his pocket full of Peabody's money and -- andit was -- and that's in the records. It's $, for acouple of hours of work. And he says, my clients havelearned that there is a decision coming down that's goingto hurt them. Put a stop to it. And the Secretary did. There was no independent judgment. QUESTION: That $, didn't go to theSecretary, did it?MR. FRYE: Oh, there's no -- absolutely --QUESTION: That was -- that was for thelobbyist.MR. FRYE: It was for the lobbyist. Andfrankly, he was underpaid for this -- this bit ofskullduggery. (Laughter.) QUESTION: I agree with you. (Laughter.) MR. FRYE: I'd like to get back to JusticeGinsburg's question about the second purpose of thestatute. Here, the Department of the Interior thwartedboth purposes of the statute. It thwarted our independent th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ability to have a -- to exercise our self-determination inan informed way. It disinformed us so that we couldn'texercise informed self-determination. And -- and that'swhat the judge in the Court of Federal Claims said. Hesaid, a negotiator's weapon is knowledge. And unaware ofthese things, the Navajo Nation was without criticalknowledge, and in fact, the record shows that theSecretary was giving this knowledge and more to the peoplewho were negotiating against us. So we didn't have thatability --QUESTION: May I just interrupt? Mr. Kneedlersaid that this really was all contained in the letter thatwas sent to the Secretary with copies to the tribeearlier.MR. FRYE: The -- the request was -- was included in that letter, and -- and the tribe did get acopy of that letter. But we didn't know that theSecretary had acted on Peabody's request. In fact, theSecretary told us the opposite. QUESTION: But didn't you know that at least --didn't you know at least it was a possibility as long asthe letter was on the table? MR. FRYE: I guess that -- it certainly would bea possibility. But there -- there was sort of a law of the case th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC that developed in this administrative procedure. Peabodymade the same request of Secretary Clark, andSecretary Clark said to his Assistant Secretary Fritz,what should I do with this? So Fritz asked everybody, doyou want me to stay this so you can negotiate? The NavajoNation said no. Fritz then wrote everybody saying, we've gottenyour letter. You wanted us to set aside this procedure soyou can negotiate. Not everyone wants to negotiate. Sowe're going to continue. That was kind of the law of thecase here. Getting back to Justice Breyer's question, theculminating event was the approval of a lease atsub--and-a-half percent rates when every Federal studysaid the royalty rate ought to be percent. There wasno other Federal study. And that was a breach of the dutyof care.This Court has said in the Kerr-McGee case thatthe basic purpose of the Indian Mineral Leasing Act --QUESTION: Excuse me. MR. FRYE: -- was to maximize revenues. QUESTION: It wasn't -- it -- more precisely itwasn't the approval of a lease. It was the approval of --of the -- the raise of the figure that was contained in alease that had already been concluded. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. FRYE: That is incorrect, sir.QUESTION: That is incorrect? MR. FRYE: Yes. QUESTION: Why? MR. FRYE: Volume II of the joint appendix inthis Court includes both the original lease and these coallease amendments, and they're virtually totally differentdocuments. There's new tax waivers. There's a newdedication of million tons of coal. There's a -- forthe north lease and for the other lease another million tons of coal, all without a competitive bid.So we not only didn't get the Federal minimum,we certainly didn't get percent. We didn't get theFederal minimum of -and-a-half percent, and we had topay a bonus to the companies of $ million to get what we got.QUESTION: But you got a severance tax as partof the package, and one of the things that the Governmentsuggested is if -- if you take the percent and you addthe percent, then you get up to the percent, whichwas your figure.MR. FRYE: Justice Ginsburg, we had the taxbefore all of this happened. And as -- as my brotherKneedler mentioned to the Court, we can't tax percentof the coal because it goes to the Navajo generating th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC station which has a tax waiver in the plant site lease. So we're capped at the -and-a-half percent royalty levelfor percent of the coal. And before we entered intothese lease amendments, we were not restricted in theamount of taxes that the Navajo Nation could impose.QUESTION: And as I understand it now, it's --what you're saying, it's just as if the trees in Mitchellwhere the money from the tree was supposed to go to theIndians, if the Government had cut it down and sold it fora half a cent a tree. MR. FRYE: That's correct. QUESTION: All right. And all this other stuffwith the procedures is just evidentiary of what was goingwrong. But what was going wrong is it's like selling thetrees at too low a price, if they were supposed to go to the -- the tribe, if the proceeds had been. That's --that's the -- basically the argument. MR. FRYE: I think that's right. The damage-causing activity finally was the approval of thesedamaging lease amendments. QUESTION: Was the price above the minimum thatthe Secretary's regulations provided for? MR. FRYE: Yes. QUESTION: Well, it seems to me the problem thenwas with the Secretary's regulation, not with what went on th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC here. That regulation was invalid as arbitrary,capricious --MR. FRYE: No. The regulation only set aminimum royalty, and as this Court --QUESTION: But that's -- but that's the point,I mean, in order to leave full negotiating authority tothe tribe. And what you're saying is that minimum is solow that it -- it produces, you know, highway robbery. Itseems to me that the problem is -- is with the regulationand maybe you can get at it when the regulation is appliedthis way. I don't know. MR. FRYE: The -- in Mitchell II, for example,there was a claim -- the Mitchell II claims did not track,by the way, specific statutory and regulatory provisions. There was a claim, for example, that was upheld for the failure of the Department of the Interior to -- to developa system of roads and easements conducive to timberharvesting. There was no statute that required that. There was no regulation that required that. That was partof the trust duty. And there was one other claim that was upheld inMitchell II, and a statute said, you -- if you're going todeposit these monies into the Federal Treasury, theFederal Government has to get at least percent. It wasa minimum percent rate. And the allottees and tribe in th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC the Mitchell case said, just by turning around you couldhave gotten percent, and the court below said, yes, youcan't be satisfied as trustee with the minimum rate. Youhave to at least strive for the ceiling. And that wasupheld. That claim was upheld here. So there were several claims in Mitchell II thatwere not tracking any specific --QUESTION: There was not in Mitchell II astatute that -- that sought to place the negotiating powerin the hands of the Indians rather than in the hands ofthe Government. I mean, that's what distinguishes thiscase. You have here a scheme that is meant to -- meant toplace the tribe in -- in charge of its own fate, and --and it effectively tells the Secretary, we don't want youto negotiate these leases. That's quite a bit different. MR. FRYE: Actually that's incorrect. Thestatutory scheme in Mitchell II, section (a), said thatthe -- the Indians could -- or could sell their timberwith the consent of the Secretary. It's the exact samestructure as we have here. What we have here is theIndians can lease their coal with the approval of theSecretary of the Interior. The approval has a realhistory. QUESTION: It's certainly not how -- how theCourt described it in Mitchell II because the Court spoke th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC about exclusive control, that the United States did allthe negotiating, that -- and it made all the arrangements. Now, whatever you -- you say, you have to deal with whatis in that opinion, and it does stress the exclusivecontrol of the United States and distinguishes the priorcase on the ground that the other case was designed togive the Indians autonomy to deal for themselves.MR. FRYE: The -- the Secretary certainly hadexclusive control over whether to approve thistransaction, whether to allow the trust asset to be soldor not. He had exclusive control over that, and that iswithin the contours of the statutes and regulations. And I --QUESTION: I thought that the -- the authoritycame from the lease from the term that the -- that the tribe agreed to, that the -- the authority to adjust theroyalty in this case comes from the lease, not from anystatute or regulation. Isn't that true?MR. FRYE: That's correct. Of course, thatlease itself was approved by the Secretary of the Interioras trustee of these --QUESTION: Wait. I thought you said some ofthese were new leases. I mean, that's what confuses me.When I was making that point earlier, you said no, some ofthem were new leases. Now, the authority to adjust the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC rate for the new leases certainly didn't exist in the oldlease, did it? MR. FRYE: That's not even at issue. Thereis -- there is no secretarial authority to adjust the ratein the new lease. QUESTION: Well, that -- that's right. So someof your complaint does not rest upon the provision in theoriginal lease that gives the Secretary the power toadjust the rate. MR. FRYE: Yes. I -- I think in response toJustice Breyer, the -- the event that caused the damageshere was the improvident approval, without observationof --QUESTION: Of the new leases. MR. FRYE: Of the new leases. That is correct.QUESTION: So that -- and that -- that's --there isn't a -- sort of like a statute that says,Secretary, give an approval or not. What there is is thetribe negotiates something. Then they have thedirector -- the area director, say, okay, that's all rightbecause the tribe asked him to say. And then somebodyapprove -- appeals to the Department of the Interior undera regulation of the Interior Department allowing anyaggrieved party to go appeal. And then the Secretaryintervenes in that, and then they don't tell the tribe. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC And because they don't tell the tribe, the tribe entersinto a different lease. That's really what happened.MR. FRYE: Yes.QUESTION: And it's hard to fit that into themodel of the Secretary charging a penny for a tree. TheSecretary, in a sense, didn't charge anything foranything. MR. FRYE: The Secretary allowed this trustasset to be conveyed for what he knew to be about half ofits value. Now, the approval requirement has a history,going back to the first administration of GeorgeWashington. In the Trade and Intercourse Acts, Congressfirst erected what this Court has called the strong shieldof Federal law, to prevent Indians from being despoiled in their property. And Congress, when it legislates,legislates against this rich history, this background inthe context of the approval requirement. In the Anicker case in , in a leasingcontext, the -- the Court said that the -- this strongshield of Federal -- of Federal law was designed toprotect the Indians from the designs of those who wouldtake their property for less than fair compensation. That's the -- that's the meat of the approval --QUESTION: Okay. So you're saying the approval th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC was wrong for two reasons, I guess. Number one, the rateapproved was less than half fair value.MR. FRYE: Correct. QUESTION: So that, in effect, every -- everylease that was approved at the -and-a-half percent waswrongly approved.MR. FRYE: No. This is extraordinarily valuablecoal. This is unusual coal. QUESTION: I see. Okay. I --MR. FRYE: This is , btu coal. QUESTION: I stand corrected. So it was the -- the approval was wrong simplybecause the -- the particular value of this coal meantthat it was being conveyed away for -- for half what itwas worth.MR. FRYE: Yes. QUESTION: That's the substance.And then you're also making the argument that itwas wrong -- and I think I used the word, the -- thebargaining process was skewed, but you're -- you're makingthat argument too? MR. FRYE: Yes. The Secretary should have knownthat the end result was going to be unfair because he hadskewed the bargaining.QUESTION: Okay. May -- may I ask you this th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC question as to whether he really did skew it? As Iunderstand what the skewing might be, it would be simplythe refusal of the Secretary to allow the administrativeprocess to go forward, as a result of which the tribeended up negotiating when it might not otherwise havenegotiated. It might have held out. My question is this. Didn't someone -- and Iforget who it was now -- on behalf of the Secretary comeright out and say to the tribe, the Secretary or theDepartment or the Bureau thinks it would be better if youresolved this by negotiating? And isn't it fair to saythat that is practically saying, look, we're not going todecide this thing? You go out and decide it bynegotiating. And if that is true, didn't they, in effect,tell them in substance what they were doing? MR. FRYE: Well, the beneficiary of a trustshouldn't have to guess what his trustee is really tellinghim. If that's what the trustee wanted to say, thetrustee should have said, I've met with Peabody. I liketheir lobbyist. I'm not going to do something thatPeabody doesn't like, and -- and we're going to sit onthis thing, as his subordinate said, until hell freezesover until you agree that -- with something that Peabodylikes and you can live with. If we had been given thatinformation, we would have taken a much different th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC approach. I guarantee you. Now, I think Justice O'Connor made the pointthat if all we have -- if -- if the trust duty onlyapplies to specific statutory and regulatory violations,then it's meaningless. The trust duty has to be somethinggreater than that. And this Court in the VarityCorporation case about years ago said precisely that. The trust duty has to be something greater than the sum ofthese distinct parts. QUESTION: So -- so the mere designation of atrustee in these cases is a waiver of sovereign immunity?MR. FRYE: I would say not, Your Honor. Therehas to be this overlay of comprehensive Federal controland supervision. And I would note too in the Indian Tucker Act, it doesn't restrict Indian plaintiffs to the same rightsand remedies. It gives people -- Indian tribes and Indianpeople the same access to the court, and it uses adifferent word. It uses the word laws in the -- in thejurisdictional statute in the Indian Tucker Act. And weknow from Illinois versus City of Milwaukee and othercases that laws means Federal common law and the -- and ifthere's anything that's grounded in the Federal common lawtradition, it's the trust duty owed to Indian tribes. Andthat's what we sue under, the Indian Tucker Act. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC One month ago yesterday, President George Bushonce again issued a presidential proclamation, followingthose of President Reagan and President Clinton, honoringthe Navajos and recognizing their special service to theUnited States in times of war. And as this Courtindicated in the Shoshone case, the Navajo tribe wasentitled to a fidelity at least as constant.We respectfully urge affirmance.QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. Frye. Mr. Kneedler, you have minutes left. REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF EDWIN S. KNEEDLERON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERMR. KNEEDLER: Thank you, Justice Stevens.First, with several factual points. The tribedid know the substance of -- of what had happened with respect to Secretary Hodel. As I pointed out earlier,Mr. Nelson's deposition, which is excerpted in the jointappendix, makes clear that the tribe had learned, he said,from Washington that -- that it was requested there thatthey go back to negotiations. And also I would call the Court's attention topage of the appendix, which are notes of thenegotiating session -- first negotiating session thatoccurred after that on August th, . It's a note inwhich Chairman Zah of the Nation acknowledges that th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Secretary Hodel apparently wanted them to go back and tryto reach an agreement. So it's clear that the partiesentered into these negotiations with a full understandingof -- of what the Secretary's preferred course was.Secondly, I think it's -- it's completely nottrue that Secretary Hodel directed a subordinate to lie tothe Navajo Nation. The -- on page of the jointappendix, there's a copy of the directive that -- orthe -- the memorandum that Secretary Hodel sent to theAssistant Secretary about this. And he makes four verysignificant points entirely reasonable under thecircumstances. He -- he referred to the fact that affirming thedecision outright unilaterally might lead to prolongedlitigation, during which the -- Peabody might well put the -- the royalties into escrow and the tribe wouldn'tget them. It would impair the future ongoing contractualrelationship between the parties. Peabody has a hugepresence on the reservation, and it was obviouslybeneficial for the parties to resolve this peaceably andnot just this isolated royalty increase under this onelease, but a whole host of issues that were -- that werefacing the two parties: taxation, payment for water,other -- other leases in which there was a significant th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC increase. And those other leases, by the way, did not havean adjustment clause. So the tribe here got the benefitnot only of an increase on this lease, but an increase ona lease that did not have an adjustment clause. And Secretary Hodel then said it would bepreferable to allow the parties to negotiate, and thenimportantly at the end, he said, I haven't reached a finaldecision on the merits of the appeal. I just think itwould be better if the parties went back and negotiated.And since, as Justice Scalia pointed out, this was a leaseprovision that was -- protected both parties, what isreasonable for both parties, it was certainly anappropriate resolution of that for the Secretary to say --in the normal situation where you have a -- a disagreement, or differing views under a lease, to sendthe parties back and seek to have them negotiate.Also, I would point out on page of the jointappendix, there's a letter from Mr. Vollmann in which hepoints out that the Secretary is aware of each party'sconcerns about the settlement, again making it clearthat -- that the Department in Washington was aware of thestate of affairs out there. So the only -- the only -- aside from all ofthat, the claims about the negotiations that preceded the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC lease amendments are essentially procedural or tortclaims, or claims about improper regulation of -- of anegotiating process. They aren't the sort of money-mandating statutory or -- first of all, there's noclaim -- no -- no identification of a statutory orregulatory provision that -- that specifically regulatesthis and was violated. But in any event, just like theDue Process Clause that this Court held in Testan is notmoney-mandating, the same is true here as well.JUSTICE STEVENS: Thank you, Mr. Kneedler.The case is submitted.(Whereupon, at : p.m., the case in theabove-entitled matter was submitted.) th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC 