 IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - XUNITED STATES, Petitioner ::v. : No. -LEONARD COTTON, MARQUETTE :HALL, LAMONT THOMAS, MATILDA :HALL, JOVAN POWELL, JESUS :HALL, AND STANLEY HALL, JR. :- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - XWashington, D.C.Monday, April , The above-entitled matter came on for oralargument before the Supreme Court of the United States at: a.m.APPEARANCES:MICHAEL R. DREEBEN, ESQ., Deputy Solicitor General,Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on behalfof the Petitioner.TIMOTHY J. SULLIVAN, ESQ., College Park, Maryland; on behalf of the Respondents.Page th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC C O N T E N T SORAL ARGUMENT OF MICHAEL R. DREEBEN, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioner TIMOTHY J. SULLIVAN, ESQ.On behalf of the Respondents PAGEPage th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC P R O C E E D I N G S(: a.m.)CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: We'll hear argumentnow in No. -, the United States v. Leonard Cotton, etal.Mr. Dreeben.ORAL ARGUMENT OF MICHAEL R. DREEBENON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERMR. DREEBEN: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court:This case is typical of many Federal drugprosecutions that were tried before this Court's decisionin Apprendi v. New Jersey. Respondents were indicted on asuperseding indictment that alleged a conspiracy todistribute cocaine and cocaine base without alleging aspecific threshold quantity of drugs that were involved inthe offense. Respondents were convicted of that offense attrial, and the evidence established at trial that theoffense involved well in excess of grams of cocainebase, the threshold quantity of drugs to authorize aminimum sentence of years and a maximum sentence oflife imprisonment. At sentencing, as all parties expected, thejudge made findings of drug quantity and determined thatPage th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC the quantities of drugs involved in the offense justifieda sentencing range up to life imprisonment and imposedsentences on several respondents of life imprisonment andothers of years imprisonment. Respondents made no objection to the judge'sprocedure in determining drug quantity himself without ajury trial determination on that issue or without an --QUESTION: Well, at -- at sentencing, is it --it -- it's really not that much of a burden to just sendit back to the judge and tell him to do it right. Supposehe had sentenced under the wrong section or something likethat. We'd just send it back. MR. DREEBEN: The problem in this case, JusticeKennedy, is that the court of appeals has held that theomission of a drug quantity allegation from the indictmentis a jurisdictional error that always requires automaticcorrection on plain error review regardless of thestrength of the evidence against respondents on thequestion or on whether respondents had notice that theywould face an increased sentence as a result of enhancedquantities of drug --QUESTION: Well, but -- but in order to testthat, I'm just asking -- it's not as if we have to have anew trial. In fact, I -- I doubt that you could have anew trial unless everybody stipulated to it. Page th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. DREEBEN: It's --QUESTION: All that happens is there's a newsentencing hearing. That -- that's not that big of a --of -- a great a burden on the courts and on theirresources. We don't have to have some huge trial. It'sjust a resentencing hearing. MR. DREEBEN: What will happen if the -- thisCourt affirms the judgment of the court of appeals is thatrespondents will not be subject to the sentences thatCongress authorized and that the evidence unequivocallyshowed in this case were justified. QUESTION: You're not objecting to --QUESTION: Aren't we really just arguing about-- are we really just arguing about retroactivity then? MR. DREEBEN: In this case we're not arguingabout retroactivity. What we're arguing about is plainerror. Respondents never made a constitutional objectionin the district court to the procedure by which they weresentenced. They never even objected as a factual matterto the proposition that their offenses involved gramsof cocaine base or more, which is all that is required inorder to support a statutory increase in the sentence. And notwithstanding their failure to object, the court ofappeals concluded that plain error analysis alwaysrequires vacation of the enhanced sentence, and thePage th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Government does not get a chance to seek the enhancedsentence on --QUESTION: Here, the -- the verdict of the jurycorresponded to the indictment, I take it. It -- itwasn't a case where the indictment failed to allege anelement of the offense which the jury found. MR. DREEBEN: That's correct. The indictment inthis case charged a complete offense under U.S.C. ,the drug conspiracy --QUESTION: Except that under Apprendi, the --the quantity may become an element, in effect. This wastried before Apprendi --MR. DREEBEN: Correct. QUESTION: -- came down. MR. DREEBEN: This case was tried beforeApprendi.QUESTION: If it had been tried after Apprendicame down, there might, in fact, be a notice problem Iassume. MR. DREEBEN: Yes, absolutely, Justice O'Connor. Post Apprendi, the Government understands that it's itsobligation to include an allegation of drug quantity inthe indictment. This case, which was tried pre Apprendi,was done in a regime in which all parties understood thatan allegation in the indictment of a conspiracy offense,Page th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC with no specification of drug quantity, did not limit theGovernment to proving increased quantities of cocainebase.QUESTION: Well, for your position to prevailhere, do we have to overrule Ex parte Bain or somehow setthat aside, which seems to suggest that if it's not in theindictment, it's a jurisdictional problem? MR. DREEBEN: Well, Justice O'Connor, this Courtalready has overruled Ex parte Bain on its square holding,which is that the narrowing of an indictment isimpermissible and deprives the court of jurisdiction.QUESTION: But the -- the Government can surelyalso argue that Ex parte Bain by its terms doesn'tapply --MR. DREEBEN: Ex parte --QUESTION: -- to this case because theindictment and the verdict corresponded, and that wasdifferent from Ex parte Bain. MR. DREEBEN: Well, that -- that is a differencefrom Ex parte Bain, Chief Justice Rehnquist, but we don'tdispute that in this case, post Apprendi, there is anerror in the sense that drug quantity is treated as aconstitutional element. QUESTION: Yes. There can be an error but not amatter of -- not going to a matter of jurisdiction.Page th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. DREEBEN: Correct. And the fundamental flawin Ex parte Bain was to treat a constitutional errorarising under the Fifth Amendment's Indictment Clause asif it were a jurisdictional error. And it's oursubmission that the reason that the Court did that isbecause at the time, in the th century, on habeascorpus, relief was available only for jurisdictionalerrors, which led this Court to treat a variety ofconstitutional errors as though they were jurisdictional.QUESTION: Well, and because there was no rightof direct appeal.MR. DREEBEN: Correct. So, the -- the resultwas that a -- the Court had broadly characterized avariety of constitutional errors as if they werejurisdictional errors, but later decisions of this Courtmake clear that the failure of an indictment to charge anyoffense is not a jurisdictional error. QUESTION: Mr. Dreeben, you would like us tomake that clear, wouldn't you, because it isn't in ourcases so far, that that kind of error, whatever it is,doesn't qualify as, quote, jurisdictional?MR. DREEBEN: Yes, Justice Ginsburg. We thinkthat the time is -- is right in this case to make it clearthat that's not a jurisdictional error.QUESTION: There -- there are many instancesPage th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC where the Court has said that an error is -- that -- thata requirement, certain requirement, is mandatory andjurisdictional. That word has been used in -- in manydifferent contexts. And are you suggesting some approachto the -- what is jurisdictional so that there won't bethis string of things that the label jurisdictional isappended to? MR. DREEBEN: Well, jurisdictional has beenappended as a label to a variety of kinds of errors, butthe relevant sense in which it's being invoked in thiscase and in which the lower court understood it was a kindof defect that may be raised at any time regardless of anobjection and that is tantamount to subject matterjurisdiction, the sort of error that is so fundamental tothe proceedings that harmless error review and plain errorreview simply don't apply. Now, the court of appeals in this case did, as aformal matter, apply rule (b) of the Federal Rules ofCriminal Procedure, the harmless error rule. But it alsorepeatedly stated that errors relating to the indictmentprocess are jurisdictional, and the failure of anindictment to charge an offense violates a mandatory ruleand creates a jurisdictional error. And that led to theconclusion that this Court's precedents in Neder v. UnitedStates and Johnson v. United States simply don't apply andPage th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC that the weight of the evidence against respondents inthis case and their possession of notice that they wouldface increased sentences under the drug statute --QUESTION: May I ask what you rely on for thenotice proposition?MR. DREEBEN: In -- in the factual record --QUESTION: Are you relying on the general run ofcases or the fact there was a preceding indictment?MR. DREEBEN: In this case, Justice Stevens, werely most fundamentally on the fact that the state of thelaw at the time of respondents' indictment was that alldefendants understood that notwithstanding the absence ofa --QUESTION: But you're not really relying on thefact there had been a prior indictment that was withdrawnand superseded. MR. DREEBEN: We don't have to rely on that. Ithink the prior indictment makes clear that the Governmentbelieved that this conspiracy --QUESTION: It believed at the time they filedthe prior indictment, but when they withdraw it and file asecond indictment, you normally would think they'vewithdrawn the charges that have been withdrawn. MR. DREEBEN: Well, not in view of the fact thatat the prevailing legal regime at the time --Page th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: That's a separate point, and Iunderstand that point. But it seems to me you'd make thatpoint even if there had been no original indictment.MR. DREEBEN: I would. And I think it'simportant to underscore that the superseding indictmentdidn't give the defendants the impression that theGovernment was retreating in the scope of its proof. Tothe contrary, the superseding indictment expanded theconspirators from to . It expanded the length of theconspiracy --QUESTION: Yes, but it withdrew the quantityallegation.MR. DREEBEN: It didn't withdraw all referencesto quantity, Justice Stevens. If you look at thesuperseding indictment, it alleges that there were multi-kilogram cocaine shipments and multi-kilogram --QUESTION: Well, I thought we were taking thecase on the assumption that the indictment did not chargeenough to get the sentences that they received.MR. DREEBEN: And that's correct. But what --QUESTION: Whereas the earlier indictment did.MR. DREEBEN: The earlier indictment in termssaid this offense involves more than grams of cocainebase. The later indictment didn't say that. But if youdo read the allegations in the later indictment, it'sPage th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC impossible that anyone could come away thinking that theGovernment had narrowed the scope of the conspiracy itintended to prove. And respondents didn't take it that way. Thereis information in the detention hearings of at least fourother respondents that indicates that they understood thatthis was the kind of cocaine conspiracy -- cocaine baseconspiracy that, if proved, would expose them to a lifesentence. They had a full opportunity to try to contestthat evidence if they wished to do so. What the respondents did instead was attempt tosay we weren't part of this --QUESTION: Let me just interrupt you by saying Ithink it would be most unfortunate if we decided this caseon the particular fact that there was an originalindictment and a superseding indictment. This was casewould mean nothing if that's all we have. MR. DREEBEN: Well, I don't think it would meannothing, Justice Stevens, but we are asking the Court torule on the broader ground that when an indictment failsto allege what we now understand to be an element of theoffense, but the evidence is sufficiently powerful so thatany rational grand jury, if asked, would have found that.QUESTION: What does the -- what does theGovernment's position do to the Stirone case? Page th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. DREEBEN: Nothing, Chief Justice Rehnquist,because Stirone was a case in which two features arepresent that are not present here. First of all, thedefendant in Stirone repeatedly objected to the broadeningof the indictment in that case. There the indictment hadalleged that there was an effect on interstate commercefrom an extortion as a result of obstruction of commercein sand. And the Government got to trial and attempted toprove that the sand would have been used to build a steelmill, the steel mill would have exported steel to otherStates, and that was the effect on commerce that had beenobstructed. The defendants vociferously objected, but thejudge allowed that to go to the jury. So, that case isnot like this case, a plain error case. It is a harmlesserror case. And furthermore, the respondents -- or the --the defendants in Stirone had a plausible claim that theywere deprived of notice of the kinds of charges that theywould actually face at trial; whereas in this case, thereis not a claim, a plausible claim, that the defendants didnot know that they would face an increased sentence if theGovernment established that the crime involved more than grams of cocaine base. QUESTION: Can you tell me, post Apprendi in thetrial courts, can the defendant agree with the GovernmentPage th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC to plead guilty but leave it to the judge to determine theamounts of the drug involved? MR. DREEBEN: It's a little unclear, JusticeKennedy, whether the defendant can do that becausetypically the Government has not acquiesced and the courtshave not been hospitable to partial pleas of guilty. Andin effect, the defendant would be tendering a partial pleato an aggravated drug offense and then asking the judge todecide one element of the offense. Under pre-Apprendilaw, that procedure would not be followed in any circuit.Now, there have been some defendants who reallywould be willing to plead to the underlying offense andcontest drug quantity, and I haven't had a chance to seewhether that has played out in the district courts withany courts allowing that to happen. QUESTION: And what does the Government do whenit indicts? There's -- there's no stipulation of anykind. Does it have three or four counts and -- and italleges the -- the maximum amount and then -- and then asmaller amount and then another amount? Three differentcounts? MR. DREEBEN: No, Justice Kennedy. We allegethe amount of threshold quantity of drugs that we believewe can prove at trial. If the trial evidence thenestablishes that a rational jury could find guilt on thePage th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC underlying offense but still have a doubt about drugquantity, then the Government would be entitled to alesser included offense.QUESTION: Lesser included offense.MR. DREEBEN: Correct. And -- and the lowercourts have understood that that's the appropriateanalysis in a case like that. QUESTION: I guess part of the problem in thiscase is that if we say that defendants are entitled to thebenefit of a change in the law before their convictionbecomes final, there's not much you can do because you'dhave to issue a superseding indictment and you can't dothat.MR. DREEBEN: We can't do it in this case,Justice Kennedy, which is why, in effect, the result thatthe court of appeals achieved is a tremendous windfall forthe defendants. They never raised a constitutionalobjection at trial. They never contested the amount ofdrugs involved in the offense. The statute clearlyauthorizes a life term for the conduct that was proved,and the evidence supports that --QUESTION: Well, I -- I don't know they'dobject. Does he stand up during the prosecution's caseand say, well, we just want you to know that you're notdoing a very good job of proving the amounts? I mean,Page th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC what's -- what's he supposed to do? That -- that -- Idon't understand when the objection would take place.MR. DREEBEN: Well, the objection could takeplace at trial when a defendant could have said theGovernment has to prove this quantity up to the jury or itcould --QUESTION: No, but it -- it doesn't. I mean,the -- the point at which the -- the failure to indict andallege on quantity becomes objectionable is at sentencing.MR. DREEBEN: Well, that's --QUESTION: So, there would be no reason to.MR. DREEBEN: That was just what I was about tosay, Justice Souter. The -- the most pertinent time forthe defendant to object would be at sentencing, and thereare defendants who raise the kind of constitutionalobjection that this Court alluded to in the Jones decisionin and later accepted in the Apprendi decision in theyear . There were defendants who raised thatconstitutional objection, and they are entitled to thebenefit of harmless error review. Those defendants who donot raise that constitutional claim are subject to plainerror review. And this Court has repeatedly recognizedthat even the type of error that might entitle a defendantto reversal on harmless error review, regardless of thestrength of the evidence, does not automatically entitlePage th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC the defendant to relief on plain error review. In Johnson v. United States, this Courtconsidered a very analogous type of error. There thetrial court convicted the defendant of a perjury offensewithout sending materiality to the petty jury. So, therewas no petty jury determination of materiality. Thedefendant made no objection to that, and on appeal, thisCourt held that the appropriate standard is plain errorreview because the defendant had never objected. And whenthe evidence is overwhelming and uncontestable -- anduncontested at trial, the Court concluded that it isaffirmance that supports the integrity of the judicialsystem rather than reversal. QUESTION: The prejudice to you is that youcannot reindict, but the objection would be irrelevant tothat.MR. DREEBEN: The objection --QUESTION: So, I mean --MR. DREEBEN: The objection would not beirrelevant because -- for two different reasons. First ofall, the -- the defendant, had he objected at thepertinent time and had the Government concluded that thiswas an objection that we should worry about, could havesought indictments on other counts relating to substantivedrug violations if it believed that the sentence that itPage th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC was about to obtain was not sufficient. We're not in thatposition today because it's the year , and the statuteof limitations will have run on many other drug offensesthat we might have brought. QUESTION: Oh, you mean you could have just hithim with another -- hit the defendants with anotherindictment in another case without a double jeopardyproblem. MR. DREEBEN: Well, any -- a substantive drugcount is a separate offense from a conspiracy offense. This Court has held that in Felix v. United States andreaffirmed it more broadly in United States v. Dixon. So,there would have been no double jeopardy objection.But the Government is no longer in the positionwhere we can extricate ourselves from the -- the dilemmathat the court of appeals has placed us in. Thesedefendants will not receive the sentence that thesentencing guidelines called for and that the statuteauthorizes. And the fact that they did not make a timelyobjection puts them in a very different position than adefendant would be who had timely objected. QUESTION: The difference is --QUESTION: The actual difference, as a practicalmatter, is between life -- a life sentence and years. Right? Page th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. DREEBEN: That's right. That's right. QUESTION: And that, Mr. Dreeben, seems to me asubstantial difference. So, I follow your argument at the-- the very last step in a plain error analysis, but youseem to stop short of that and you said there wasn't anysubstantial difference. And I think that that'stroublesome because the disparity in sentencing is large.MR. DREEBEN: The disparity in sentencing islarge both from the Government's point of view and fromthe defendant's point of view. The way that theGovernment looks at this question is would the defendanthave gotten the same sentence if he had been accorded theprocedures that he now claims that he should have beengiven. If the Government had understood that it had toobtain an indictment that mentioned drug quantity and ithad understood that the Constitution required the jury,not the judge, to make that finding, would the defendantbe better off or the same off? That is exactly the kind of analysis that theCourt used in Johnson v. United States and Neder v. UnitedStates. It looked at whether the -- the availability ofthe procedure that the defendant has been deprived ofwould have made a difference to him. Of course, it wouldmake a difference to him if he could have compelled thesentencing judge to drop down to years as a result ofPage th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC the Government's failure to put drug quantity in theindictment, and that's what would happen today if thiscase were unfolding in a post-Apprendi world. But in a pre-Apprendi world, particularly wherethe defendant didn't object, it makes more sense to lookat the problem as one of a deprivation of procedure and toask whether the possession of the procedure would have --QUESTION: Mr. Dreeben, can I ask you thisquestion? I understand it's not this case, but would theGovernment -- what -- what would the Government's positionbe if the evidence of quantity came out after the trialwas concluded just as a result of a pre-sentenceinvestigation and then a finding by the judge? What would-- what should happen in that kind of case? MR. DREEBEN: In that kind of case, our positionwould be the same, that particularly on plain errorreview, the Court should look to the entire --QUESTION: Even though the evidence was notbefore the jury.MR. DREEBEN: Right, even though --QUESTION: Because Neder wouldn't apply to that.MR. DREEBEN: Well, it's not clear that -- thatNeder wouldn't apply to it. It's true that in Nederitself, the Government proved up all of the evidencerelevant to materiality at the trial. But in many cases,Page th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC that were tried --QUESTION: But you would take the same positioneven if all the evidence developed post-trial during thepre-sentence investigation.MR. DREEBEN: That's right. We would. But, asYour Honor has indicated, the Court wouldn't have to agreewith that in order to sustain in this case. And this case is the far more typical one inwhich the grand jury investigation itself developedsubstantial evidence of drug quantity. Everybody knewthat before the trial, and the trial evidence itself iswhere the evidence of drug quantity was adduced.QUESTION: Mr. Dreeben, I -- I'm not sure I --you say we should determine whether substantial rightshave been affected by -- by asking whether if theprocedure that has been omitted had not been omitted, hewould have been -- he would have been convicted anyway. I-- I just -- that -- that seems to me extravagant. Imean, that -- that would mean that if there were noindictment at all, you just go to the jury without anindictment and the jury convicts him of murder, you couldcome in and say, well, his substantial rights weren'taffected because had there been a murder indictment, therewas plenty of evidence to -- to convict him of murder. Is-- is that the position the Government's taking?Page th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. DREEBEN: No, it's not the position thatwe're taking, Justice Scalia. And the logic of -- of theGovernment's position in this case doesn't have to go to atotal omission of any grand jury indictment at all. Justas in Neder, the Court made perfectly clear that althoughharmless error analysis would apply to the omission of anelement, it would not apply to a directed verdict --QUESTION: No, but my -- my point is it seems tome the way you decide whether substantial rights have beenaffected is not to ask the question would he -- would hehave been convicted anyway. Even though he would havebeen convicted anyway, in some cases you simply say therewas no indictment. His substantial rights were affected. Period. MR. DREEBEN: Well, there -- there is a class ofcases in which the Court will find an effect onsubstantial rights without regard to the strength of theevidence. QUESTION: I don't think so. MR. DREEBEN: And those cases are calledstructural error cases. And as the Court is well aware,that's a very narrow category. It was hotly debated inthe Neder case whether structural error did apply to thepetty jury's failure to decide an element to the offense,and the Court held that it was not a case of structuralPage th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC error. Even the dissenting view in Neder, however,recognized that when there wasn't an objection at trialand the case comes up on plain error review and the Courtmight find an effect on substantial rights, it's still notrequired to reverse. It applies the -- the test that wasarticulated in United States v. Olano and in Johnson v.United States, was there an effect on the fairness,integrity, and public reputation of judicial proceedings.QUESTION: It seems to me that's the step thatyou -- that you should put your -- your emphasis on inthis case, not the -- not the substantial right.MR. DREEBEN: Well, that's all the Court needsto hold in order to conclude that the court of appealserred in this case because the court of appeals in thiscase got to the fourth step of plain error review, afterfinding an effect on substantial rights, and then it heldthat we really can't say what the grand jury would havedone. We're not permitted to speculate about that becausethe grand jury is a body that operates without any legalrestrictions at all on whether it can charge or not.That proposition that the grand jury isessentially free to charge or not, regardless of theevidence, is inconsistent with the historical record ofthe way grand juries operated. The charges that werePage th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC given by members of this Court sitting on circuit in theearly years of this Nation made clear that grand jurieshad a duty to indict when there was probable cause tobelieve that an offense had been committed. And the grandjurors' oath similarly reflected that grand jurors shouldindict when the evidence justifies that. QUESTION: Yes, but can I just give you sort ofan intermediate hypothetical? Supposing all the evidenceof quantity developed after the grand jury had returnedits indictment that it developed, but in the pleabargaining they found out how much drug there really wasinvolved, you'd treat that as the same case even thoughthe grand jury could not have indicted. MR. DREEBEN: Well, if that case took place, asthis one did, in a legal regime in which the Governmentdidn't believe it had to get a grand jury indictment onthe point, then I suppose my answer to that is if we hadknown, we could have gone back to the grand jury andgotten a superseding --QUESTION: No. But you didn't know the evidenceat the time is what I'm saying. MR. DREEBEN: Oh, we could have gotten asuperseding indictment. QUESTION: Oh, I see. Okay. MR. DREEBEN: And -- and that's what's odd aboutPage th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC this case. All parties in this case proceeded on thetheory that it wasn't necessary to go to the grand jury,and that's the explanation on this record for why there'snothing --QUESTION: Well, except that the defendantdoesn't have to proceed on any theory. It's yourprosecution.MR. DREEBEN: That's true, but the defendant onthis case proceeded on the same theory as we did. Thedefendant never objected. The defendant never believedthat there was a contest as to the amount of drug quantityin question that increased the sentence. And the resultis that the entire sentencing proceeding unfolded with allparties fully well understanding that the legal regime inplace at the time meant that drug quantity did not have tobe charged in the indictment. And the proposition that a grand jury is free toreject the evidence of drug quantity and determine itselfthat it just doesn't want to charge the greater offensewould be fundamentally at odds with the democratic systemin this country. Congress has voted a regime in whichdrug quantity can increase the penalties. The evidence inthis case established to the satisfaction of theGovernment that those increased quantities were there, andtherefore the increased penalties should be applied. Page th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: Of course, if we see it your way, itwould be open to prosecutors all the time simply to makethe grand jury proceeding a short-cut and not bother toget into quantity and, hence, not, in -- in effect, advisethe -- the grand jury that it's -- that it's going forsomething that might have the -- the potential for life.And even in a post-Apprendi regime, I suppose you couldsay, well, it was harmless error because the -- thequantity -- the -- the evidence of quantity was there andtherefore we -- we shouldn't regard it as structural andwe should overlook it. MR. DREEBEN: You could make that argument,Justice Souter, but in a post-Apprendi environment,Apprendi is a sufficiently well-known decision of thisCourt that no prosecutor would responsibly go tosentencing and say I would like to have an increasedsentence regardless of the fact that we didn't charge drugquantity. And it's hard for me to imagine that there aredefendants or judges that wouldn't catch the error if theprosecutor didn't itself bring it to the attention of acourt.QUESTION: How about in this case? If -- if thestandard were harmless error rather than plain error,would you maintain that the Government should stillprevail?Page th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. DREEBEN: Yes, Justice Ginsburg, we wouldbecause of reasoning analogous to -- the Court used inNeder v. United States. The underlying values of theright in question are not impaired. The evidence was sostrong that no rational grand jury could have failed tofind the increased drug quantity and the defendants werenot deprived of notice and an opportunity to contest it. So, even though there was error, the error has to beweighed against the important values of essentiallydepriving society and the Government of the sentence thatCongress prescribed for the kind of offense in question. And weighing those against each other, the conclusionshould be that the court of appeals should affirm ratherthan reverse. QUESTION: But the Court could well concludeotherwise were the test harmless error and you could stillprevail.MR. DREEBEN: That's correct. And most of thecases that we are dealing with in this transitional era ofdrug prosecutions that were tried before Apprendi but arenow on appeal after Apprendi, do not involve objections bythe defendant in the trial court. They are almost allplain error cases, and a ruling on the fourth prong ofplain error analysis that concludes that in this scenarioit doesn't offend the integrity and public reputation ofPage th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC judicial proceedings or their fairness to affirm ratherthan reverse would be a outcome that would resolve almostall of the litigation that has occurred in this area.If the Court has no further questions, I'llreserve the remainder of my time. QUESTION: Very well, Mr. Dreeben.Mr. Sullivan, we'll hear from you.ORAL ARGUMENT OF TIMOTHY J. SULLIVANON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTSMR. SULLIVAN: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court:I'd like to direct my first comment to thequestion that the Chief -- Mr. Chief Justice asked aboutdidn't the indictment and the verdict correspond. Mr.Chief Justice, you're exactly correct. The problem isthat the sentence didn't correspond. And these defendantswere on notice for what later turned out to be a (b)()(C)drug case that had a -year statutory maximum and theyended up receiving a life sentence.QUESTION: I think my point was that Baininvolved a situation where the verdict and the indictmentdidn't correspond, and that a rule that says that'sjurisdictional might not extend to this situation.MR. SULLIVAN: The issue with jurisdictional istwofold in this case. One deals with the Court'sPage th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC sentencing jurisprudence, which goes back all the way toIn re Bonner, which is essentially unchallenged by theGovernment, which sets the proposition that any excesssentence beyond the statutory maximum is void. And that was at the heart of Apprendi. AndApprendi says and recognizes that a district court judge,like Judge Blake in Baltimore, was limited necessarily ather outer limits with what's charged in the indictment andwhat's found by the petit jury. A district court does nothave a sense of roving jurisdiction under . If adefendant comes into that courtroom charged by the grandjury with a specific offense, that sentence must berendered for that specific offense.QUESTION: In re Bonner was one of those oldhabeas cases. MR. SULLIVAN: Mr. Chief Justice, I don'tbelieve that a -- a case that's old somehow loses itsforce after Apprendi.QUESTION: Well, but I -- I think you have torecognize that the Court at that time, because there wasno direct appeal, kind of expanded the concept ofjurisdiction to reach constitutional error.MR. SULLIVAN: And I think that is exactly whatthe Apprendi Court and the majority is restricting now is-- is that -- that exact caution of the Court. Until -- IPage th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC -- I don't think that when a defendant goes into court andhas notice that he's charged -- let me just back up to saythis. The rule of law in this case is much moreimportant than what happens to these defendants. AsJustice Kennedy pointed out, all we were challenging isthe illegal sentence in this case. We're not challengingthe conviction. We were convicted of a (b)()(C)offense. We recognize that. We recognize the court hadjurisdiction over the offense. We recognize that thecourt had jurisdiction over our defendants or our clients. What we challenge is the illegality of the sentence.QUESTION: Well, that's all, but I mean, that's-- that's pretty big. Your -- your clients were -- wereconvicted, if you accept the Government's case, of beingdrug kingpins, of running and managing a massive drugoperation, and -- and you say all we're asking is thatthey be given the same sentence as a mule who was justsomebody, you know, carrying a -- a small amount of drugs. I don't consider that an insignificant difference. MR. SULLIVAN: Justice Scalia, the burden isupon the Government in their prosecution to indict theappropriate offense. I disagree with my friend, Mr.Dreeben, that somehow the error solely belongs to us. Thegenesis of the error is the Government's failure to indictPage th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC drug quantity. QUESTION: Well, I think he might concede thatyour -- you're both equally at fault, but that -- but thatdoesn't get you all the way. You began by saying that this later became a (b)case, and that's the problem. It was tried on -- on apre-Apprendi assumptions. MR. SULLIVAN: Much like Neder, Justice Kennedy,this case is the product of a laboratory test tube. Iacknowledge that, and the propositions and the fundamentalbeliefs that all of us went into the trial with are fardifferent because none of us could ever imagine that theApprendi case was forthcoming. Both Jones and Apprendiwere decided while this case was on direct appeal. So, Idon't see how we could forfeit an error that we couldnever even imagine would -- would result in --QUESTION: Now, wait, wait, wait. It wasn'tthat much of a bolt from the blue. (Laughter.) QUESTION: Nobody could imagine Apprendi?QUESTION: The dissenters couldn't imagine it.(Laughter.) MR. SULLIVAN: Justice Scalia, let me -- as atrial attorney, let me just --QUESTION: I mean, Apprendi was -- was based on,Page th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC I assume, the long common law tradition. There had beenAlmandarez-Torres before. Was -- was that decided beforethis case was tried? MR. SULLIVAN: I don't know the answer to that.QUESTION: I think it was. And -- and that casemade abundantly clear that there was a big problem even --even with respect to the proof of -- of prior offenses forrecidivism, in -- incremental sentences. So, you know, both out of the blue? No, no, no,no, no.MR. SULLIVAN: Perhaps I overstated --QUESTION: No, I don't think you did. MR. SULLIVAN: Right. (Laughter.) MR. SULLIVAN: In -- in -- my point is simple,Justice Scalia, is that in pre-Apprendi practice, the --the Fourth Circuit made it abundantly clear to defenseattorneys and to Government attorneys that we were not toconcern ourselves with sentencing factors of drug quantityat the time of sentencing.QUESTION: Did some defense attorneys make theobjection for the record in any case? I'm thinking backin the old days when there was jury discrimination and thecourts routinely said no, but many defense attorneys,knowing they were going to lose on it, made it for thePage th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC record anyway, hoping that their case on appeal would bethe one that changed the law? MR. SULLIVAN: Justice Ginsburg, I'm sure thereare attorneys who did that. That was not done in -- inour case. We challenged drug quantity in the typical pre-Apprendi way under the sentencing guidelines. I'm reminded that in Johnson, this Courtindicated that sometimes defense attorneys aren't expectedto make laundry lists of objections, and I would daresuggest that many of the judges that I appear in front ofwould not be too welcoming of my trying to speculate whatthis body would do two or three terms from now. So, I don't think that -- I'm sure that thereare attorneys throughout the country who were making thesetypes of objections, sensing the change from McMillan andAlmandarez-Torres, sensing the direction of this Court,but we -- we did not.QUESTION: That's -- I -- I'll take that as agiven. I'll say, yes, it is a surprise. I couldn'texpect you to -- to object to all these things. But in terms of recognizing plain error, whereI'm having a problem is I don't see how you could treatthe grand jury any differently from the trial. That is tosay, if you have a trial and there is a failure to object,what we've said in our cases is it's not plain errorPage th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC unless it's very unusual circumstances. Now, whatever those unusual circumstances are,if they're present here, it should be both, and if they'renot present here, how could you possibly say that a personwho goes through a full trial and it has the defect can'tobject, but a person who's had that defect at the grandjury stage, but it's cured at the trial stage, couldobject? I just don't see how a system could function thatway. MR. SULLIVAN: Justice Breyer, my -- my answeris that it all goes back to the Indictment Clause of theFifth Amendment and to the jurisdictional end-run thatJustice Souter was alluding to. The -- you can't guess orspeculate -- no court, most respectfully this Court or anyother reviewing court, can't guess what the grand jurywould have, could have, or should have done.QUESTION: But we face many, many cases in whichthe normal tendency of the courts has been to say, forgetabout errors at the grand jury stage. If you're suddenlygoing to recognize this as an error at the grand jurystage, when it's cured at the trial stage, well, whywouldn't that throw open the doors for all kinds ofchallenges of grand jury proceedings?MR. SULLIVAN: Justice Breyer, Mechanik and NovaScotia were not -- were not constitutional rules. TheyPage th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC were procedural rules under rule , which had a trial thatfollowed through and the court could -- had a record, andthe court could look at the record to see if the grandjury problem affected the validity of the trial. QUESTION: Mr. Sullivan, I have the same problemthat Justice Breyer has. I didn't -- you know, I didn'tagree with -- with Neder, but -- but given Neder, you saywe cannot second guess what the grand jury would have,could have, should have done. But Neder says we cansecond guess what the petty jury would have, could have,should have done. And why -- why is second guessing theone any -- any worse than second guessing the other?MR. SULLIVAN: I think it goes back to thehistorical function of the -- the grand jury, JusticeScalia, and the fact that what happens to the grand juryis absolutely --QUESTION: Is it any greater than the historicalfunction of the -- of the petty jury? MR. SULLIVAN: The petty jury is an -- is theproduct of an adversarial process where a judge acts as areferee and the law is well defined and the evidence iswell known. And the judge sits there and makesdeterminations. So, there's a certain sense ofreliability to entire trial process. We don't have that given the secrecy of thePage th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC grand jury, the fact that no matter how many times I knockon the door to be asked to enter the grand jury, theGovernment will not let me or my client --QUESTION: But the defendant could certainlywaive a grand jury.MR. SULLIVAN: A defendant can certainly waive agrand jury and proceed by information. But just if a --if a defendant chooses to waive the grand jury and go byinformation, that doesn't mean that they can be sentencedfor a crime that they don't waive the indictment for. So,for example, if a defendant waives jurisdiction on an case and allows to go by indictment and --QUESTION: What -- what do you mean when you saywaived jurisdiction?MR. SULLIVAN: I don't mean waive jurisdiction,Your Honor. I meant waive -- waive indictment and -- andgo by an information. You can only be sentenced for the crime thatyou've waived for, that you've knowingly and intelligentlywaived for. You can't be sentenced for another crime.QUESTION: Well, but the idea that you can waivea grand jury suggests that perhaps it is no -- certainlyno higher than the -- the petty jury right. And it wasargued, you know, when the idea of harmless of error firstbegan to be applied, how can we possibly second guess whatPage th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC a jury would have done here. Well, the answer was that inmany cases you can. If the evidence is overwhelming, youcan. MR. SULLIVAN: And following up on that, Mr.Chief Justice, I don't agree that the evidence in thiscase, despite Mr. Dreeben's articulation, was thatoverwhelming. One of the defendants in the trial courtwere acquitted, Roger Evans. And I would suggest that nowin a post-Apprendi practice, we would do things a lotdifferently attacking drug quantity that we never did whenit was a detectable amount because no one ever had toworry about it. QUESTION: Mr. Sullivan, you -- the fact thatone defendant was acquitted I'm not sure is -- isrelevant. If the jury believed the testimony that wasnecessary to support the verdict, I understand theGovernment to be arguing they must have been describingtransactions in amounts that would qualify them for thesentence they had. Do you disagree with that proposition?I thought we were sort of assuming -- if I'mwrong, tell me -- that it was a case in which the -- ifyou believed the Government's evidence, as the jury did,you would necessarily have -- had also believed there wasmore than the quantity to change the -- the guidelinesrange.Page th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. SULLIVAN: I -- well, I can't argue withthat. I think that's a mathematical, you know,formulation, but I agree that -- what I would suggest isthat what the Fourth Circuit said which is that thequantum of evidence is irrelevant when the problem stemsfrom a defect in the indictment from the very beginningBut I would suggest, Justice Stevens, that nowin the post-Apprendi environment, defense attorneys aretaking a much different strategy and not giving up or --or just resting on drug quantity or challenging drugquantity, challenging the laboratories, challenging theweights of the drugs, distancing ourselves like we wouldnormally do in conspiracy cases farther away from clientswho are holding heavy amounts of drugs because we now knowthat drug quantity is -- is very important. QUESTION: It was an issue before the judgebefore, wasn't it? QUESTION: You had every incentive to do thatbefore, too. I find that peculiar. I mean, surely itmade a difference before. MR. SULLIVAN: A detectable amount -- when --when you're charged with a detectable amount, it doesn'tbehoove you, as a -- as an attorney, to challenge adetectable amount. It's almost a impossible task. Anyamount is detectable.Page th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: But you would before the judge. It'sjust a question now you do it before the jury, but youmade the same kind of attacks. It was still thedifference between years and life. MR. SULLIVAN: And -- and the problem is,Justice Ginsburg, that under Apprendi Judge Blake -- shewas the wrong judge applying the wrong standard of proof.She was the wrong fact finder and the wrong standard ofproof. QUESTION: I guess that's your point. I guessthat's a fair point that there's -- there is more of anincentive to raise it before the jury because the jury hasto find it beyond a reasonable doubt. And therefore, yourchances of -- of winning a -- a contest of the amountbefore the jury are much better than your chances ofwinning one before the judge. MR. SULLIVAN: That's correct. QUESTION: Which is what Apprendi was all about,I assume. QUESTION: But -- but if we said we want to sendthis back so that you can have the advantage of Apprendi,there's nothing the Government can do because it can'treindict. MR. SULLIVAN: The Government cannot -- I takethe position, Justice Kennedy, that the -- that thePage th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Government cannot reindict on double jeopardy grounds, butour clients would still receive -year sentences in theBureau of Prisons. QUESTION: I -- I understand that. But assume,as the courts of appeals uniformly seemed to have held,that Apprendi is not retroactive to convictions that arefinal, and assume that the Government can protect itselfin a post-Apprendi world. What we're talking about isthis narrow line of cases where you seem to have an -- anautomatic escape hatch and the Government can't retry.MR. SULLIVAN: And I find that fantastic becauseit's usually the other way around. (Laughter.) MR. SULLIVAN: That -- the rule of law -- Imean, sometimes you -- you roll the dice and sometimes thedefense wins and oftentimes the Government wins, JusticeKennedy. And perhaps the results in this case are notpalatable to some -- to some people. But in this case --QUESTION: Well, Mr. -- Mr. Sullivan, in lightof the Johnson case and the Neder case, I think theGovernment has a very strong argument here. I mean, you-- you could fail under Johnson to include an element inthe jury instructions and, nonetheless, conclude that itwas not plain error.MR. SULLIVAN: Judge Blake instructed the jury,Page th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC the petit jury, that drug quantity was not a concern ofthe court -- I mean, concern of the jury. In Neder andJohnson, Justice O'Connor, again there -- there was atrial. There was an adversarial process. And we don'tknow to this very date, quite frankly, whether the grandjury was ever asked to make a determination on drugquantity in the superseding indictment, and that's theproblem. In Neder and Johnson, there was a record. Therewas a great record that this Court could apply theappropriate test. You can't do that in this case, in theCotton case, because there is no complete record for thisCourt to go back and basically usurp the responsibilitiesof the indictment because we don't know whether on acertain date the Government brought in their witnesses toestablish drug quantity. We simply don't know that inthis case, and I think that is the fundamental differencethat distinguishes the line of cases of Neder and Johnsonthat go to trial problems as opposed to indictmentproblems. QUESTION: Under the first indictment, would thejury have been instructed that it had to find the amounts?MR. SULLIVAN: I think in pre-Apprendi practice,no. I think there was -- the instruction from the judgethat drug quantities are not your concern would have beenPage th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC the judge's instructions at that point. QUESTION: You said that some people mightdiffer about this particular case and maybe this time it'sroll of the dice. But the last part of the plain errortest is just that. Is this something that's fundamentallyunfair that will affect the reputation of the courts? Andit seems to me that what you just told us goes against anysuch finding. MR. SULLIVAN: Justice Ginsburg, I had -- theOlano test is quite clear that you don't -- well, that adecision on a basic right that is forfeited doesn't matteron -- if somebody is innocent or guilty. It's muchstronger and much more important than that. I do suggest, most respectfully, that theintegrity of the court under the fourth Olano prong wouldbe impaired if the -- the decision is that you can beindicted for one offense and convicted for anotheroffense, that that's why the fairness and the integrity ofthe judicial proceedings comes into question. The veryintegrity of the court, the power of the court to do themost -- one of the most important things to a person who'scharged with a crime -- oftentimes people don't care whatthey're charged with.QUESTION: In -- in a transition case, in -- ina case where the -- the law was -- was in flux, this wouldPage th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC not be a determination -- a plain error determinationwouldn't be that routinely this kind of omission couldoccur.MR. SULLIVAN: I think this is the exceptionrather than the rule. That's correct.QUESTION: I thought that the -- the lack ofconformity between the indictment and the conviction isnot in this case. You said --MR. SULLIVAN: No. It's --QUESTION: -- you can be indicted for oneoffense and convicted of another. That's -- that's not inthis case, is it? It's just a question of whether thegrand jury decided upon what was in the indictment.MR. SULLIVAN: That's correct.QUESTION: Okay. QUESTION: What was the defense?MR. SULLIVAN: I'm sorry. QUESTION: What was the defense at trial?MR. SULLIVAN: Justice Breyer, in this multi-defendant conspiracy, the defense was one part thatthe Government cooperators lacked credibility, that theyweren't reliable. It was one part attacking the BaltimoreCity Police Department. This is what we call a historicalcase. It was a series of arrests that the Government puttogether at the end and made it into a conspiracy.Page th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: I mean, was it basically they didn'tdo it?MR. SULLIVAN: It was that and there was alsomultiple conspiracies. The judge instructed the jury onmultiple --QUESTION: I just wonder on the harmless part orwhether it's harmful. If they were arguing, well, wedidn't do it, is it likely that they would have presentedto the jury evidence that even though we didn't do it, theamount involved was only grams or less and not more?MR. SULLIVAN: I -- I don't think that that --that that would have been -- you never use drug quantitiesas a defense. QUESTION: All right. So, that's -- that -- yousee the reason -- the reason that I say that is becausethey're saying, look, this error is harmless, and part ofthe strength of your claim I think is that they nevercould have thought of it at the trial before Apprendi toraise it. But if it is harmless and you're really arguingfor us to make an exception from Neder, as well as thegrand jury, I wonder if there's any response to the view Ijust stated. I mean, that it was harmless. MR. SULLIVAN: I don't think it can be harmless,Justice Breyer, because the very thrust of Neder, the veryPage th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC thrust of harmless error analysis is the Government mustprove beyond a reasonable doubt that the error didn'taffect substantial rights. And I don't know how theGovernment could make that burden of proof in this case --QUESTION: Well, in Neder, didn't the Courtassume that substantial rights were affected? MR. SULLIVAN: I think -- I think --QUESTION: I think in either Neder or Johnson,it did. I forget which one it is. And then -- so they went to the fourth prong andsaid, you know, even assuming substantial rights areaffected, you know, this -- this is not going to reflecton the integrity of the -- the court system or whateverthe fourth prong reads. MR. SULLIVAN: That -- I think you're obviouslycorrect, Mr. Chief Justice, but I think the importantthing too about Neder is that the Court was -- wasconvinced -- I think part of its position was that thecorrect standard of proof that the district judge on themateriality element found it by -- beyond a reasonabledoubt. So, I think that we don't have a problem with amishmash of different standards of proof like we do inthis case here where -- where some elements of theindictment are found beyond a reasonable doubt and someelements are found by a preponderance of the evidence andPage th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC you have different fact finders performing -- performingdifferent functions. QUESTION: What I was trying to direct yourattention to, which is -- and maybe this doesn't help you. But I thought that Neder -- and I'd have to reread it tobe sure -- was saying the omission of an element doesn'talways automatically mean no clear error, but it mightsometimes. And so, I guess if it might sometimes, maybethis is one of those unusual cases or exceptional caseswhere it would. But if so, your clients must have beentreated very fairly -- unfairly and the criminal justicesystem must have suffered in its reputation. Now, youmight have something to say on that point, and I wanted tobe sure you did if you do.MR. SULLIVAN: And my point is, Justice Breyer,that I agree with the premise of your question and myanswer would be that Neder and that harmless error ruleenunciated there would be utterly meaningless in this casebecause there's no object and no gap that any reviewingcourt could fill because we don't know and we will neverknow what happened in front of the grand jury when thatelement was not returned. And it's precisely that no object to scrutinizefor harmless, which you'll never have in a trial for themost part because of the adversarial process, because ofPage th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC the judge refereeing what goes on -- there's a reliabilityfactor there. There's not that reliability factor beforethe grand jury.QUESTION: Well, but if you're right in that,then Mechanik was wrongly decided.MR. SULLIVAN: I -- I don't believe thatMechanik was wrongly decided, Mr. Chief Justice. Mechanikwas not a constitutional issue. It was -- it was a --more of a procedural issue --QUESTION: But it said that, you know, you can'tattack the indictment rendered by the grand jury eventhough you might have some -- some reason to do so.MR. SULLIVAN: That's correct, but there wasnever a challenge to the validity of the indictment -- theindictment itself in Mechanik, which is the root of ourcontention here. The Mechanik indictment was concededlyfree of error. I think that's what the Court -- what theCourt found to be a very important distinction. And that-- we don't have that in this case. The indictment is thecause of -- of our problems in this case. So, I thinkMechanik is -- is distinguishable, and the Court did applyharmless error in Mechanik but found that it didn't riseto the level to -- to challenge the structural integrityof -- of the grand jury process itself. QUESTION: May I go back to your argument thatPage th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC you made a second ago that we never know what the grandjury would have done if it had been presented with theevidence? The difficulty that I have with that argumentis, number one, I think we have a pretty clear body of lawthat tells the grand jury what its duty is, if it ispresented with evidence which would justify an indictmentwith respect to quantity and hence the severity of thecrime. And if we're going to respect that law on duty,then in order to see it your way, we have to say, well,regardless of what the grand jury's duty is and regardlessof what the probability is that it would indict and -- andwould specify the quantity, we have to assume that there'sa wild card element in the grand jury. And on the basisof that wild card element, you never absolutely know whatthey're going to do. We are -- we are going to hold that,in fact, you can never assess the harmfulness of theerror.How do we get to the point of dispensing withour law on grand jury duty and emphasizing the wild cardelement, in effect, of the grand jury when it refuses tofollow that obligation? How -- how are we able to dothat?MR. SULLIVAN: Justice Souter, I think theanswer is that we try to remain as true as we can to thePage th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Framers' intent and the Framers' fear of a corruptjudiciary or an oppressive prosecutor. And that bulk --that bulk word or whatever -- whatever that barrier thatexists between the process, that very threshold thatbrings someone into the criminal justice system that thatcannot be -- that is indispensable to our system. QUESTION: Well, wasn't that a fear --QUESTION: Go ahead. QUESTION: Wasn't -- wasn't that a fear, ineffect, that grand juries are simply going to be puppetsthat are going to be indicting without regard to evidence? Whereas, here the assumption is the evidence isoverwhelming, and so that policy of wanting the grand juryto stand between the state and the individual is notreally a policy that's implicated here.MR. SULLIVAN: I -- you're right in that regard,Justice Souter, but we don't know if the Government didits duty and presented to this grand jury drug quantitiesin the superseding indictment. So, we don't even know,based on any record that we can discern, whether or notthat major element, that critical element that -- thatdrives the sentences in this case was ever presented tothem. So, sure, I guess that, you know, grand juries cancharge greater offenses of it. And that's one of thebeauties of it. They can charge greater offenses, lesserPage th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC sentence, no -- no -- I mean, not -- offenses, or none atall, and they can even nullify, although it's not -- we --we shouldn't encourage it. QUESTION: But they tend not to nullify, Ithink, except when there are political considerations thatthe grand jury sort of smells in the circumstances. Andone thing it seems to me clear is that the grand juriesare not likely to smell political considerations when theGovernment decides to go after kingpins as opposed to whenthe Government decides to go after mules. And so, I -- Idon't see that concern as coming to the fore in this case.MR. SULLIVAN: And I -- and I guess it goesback, Justice Souter, to where I began this morning. It'sthe Government's responsibility to indict each defendantbased on their roles and their culpability. You can't goin and just do a blanket indictment. You mustdelineate each and every element of each and every offensefor each and every defendant. And that's the Government'sfailure in this case. Look, I -- I understand the fact that it's notterribly difficult for the Government to obtain a Federalgrand jury indictment. I mean, I -- it's very rare thatthey -- a Federal grand jury will no-bill what the U.S.Attorney wants him or her to do or them to do. There is atension there. Page th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC But I think the rule of law and the purpose ofthe grand jury and why we need the grand jury is fargreater than whether or not Mr. Hall, the leader of thisdrug conspiracy, is going to do life or years or bywhether other people who may have had different roles inthe conspiracy which no drug quantity has ever beenattributed to them -- there's evidence that they have beeninvolved in multiple conspiracies. Whether they're mulesor couriers or street vendors or kingpins, sometimes therule of law requires that -- that fairness be done. And-- and fairness in this case is a sentence based on whatyou were charged with, not a sentence based on somethingthat you weren't charged with.QUESTION: I think you -- I think you've got agood argument there except for the fact that we've got tofind a distinction between the role of the grand juriesand the petty grand juries given the fact that Neder is --is on the record. And that's -- that's why I was fishingfor something and kind of shooting down everything that Icould come up with. And that's the dilemma I have.MR. SULLIVAN: The dilemma is, Justice Souter --is that what -- this would crack open the gate to allow, Iwould suggest, the Government to trample into the -- thegrand jury function. They already go into the grand juryroom each and every day, but now they can indict for onePage th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC thing, prove another thing, if their position is adoptedhere, charge one thing --QUESTION: But that didn't happen here. Theydidn't indict for one thing and prove another thing. Youagreed --MR. SULLIVAN: But --QUESTION: -- the -- the verdict corresponded tothe indictment.MR. SULLIVAN: No. I'm talking in a differentcase, a more broader case, not this actual case.QUESTION: Well, wait. You don't -- you don'tagree that the verdict corresponded to the indictment, doyou? I -- I thought the only reason that that issue wasnot in this case is because of Neder. It doesn't matter,under Neder, whether the verdict corresponded to theindictment. That can be harmless error. Right? Which iswhy you're driven back to the -- to the grand juryargument. MR. SULLIVAN: That's correct, but it's alsocorrect that I told the Chief Justice earlier that --(Laughter.) MR. SULLIVAN: -- that the -- that the problemis a sentencing problem in this case and not a differencebetween -- well, it is a -- my time is up. (Laughter.) Page th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: Mr. Dreeben, you have minuteremaining. MR. DREEBEN: Unless the Court has anyquestions, the Government waives rebuttal.CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: Very well.The case is submitted. (Whereupon, at : a.m., the case in theabove-entitled matter was submitted.)Page th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC 