 IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XA. ELLIOTT ARCHER, ET UX., Petitioners ::v. : No. -ARLENE L. WARNER :- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XWashington, D.C.Monday, January , The above-entitled matter came on for oralargument before the Supreme Court of the United States at: a.m.APPEARANCES:CRAIG GOLDBLATT, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf of thePetitioners.LISA S. BLATT, ESQ., Assistant to the Solicitor General,Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on behalf ofthe United States, as amicus curiae, supporting thePetitioners.DONALD R. AYER, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf of theRespondent. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC C O N T E N T SORAL ARGUMENT OF CRAIG GOLDBLATT, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioners ORAL ARGUMENT OFLISA S. BLATT, ESQ.On behalf of the United States, as amicus curiae,supporting the Petitioners ORAL ARGUMENT OFDONALD R. AYER, ESQ.On behalf of the Respondent REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OFCRAIG GOLDBLATT, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioners PAGE th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC P R O C E E D I N G S(: a.m.)CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: We'll hear argumentfirst this morning in Number -, A. Elliott Archerversus Arlene L. Warner.Mr. Goldblatt. ORAL ARGUMENT OF CRAIG GOLDBLATTON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERSMR. GOLDBLATT: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court:An individual debtor at the end of a bankruptcycase will typically receive a discharge of that debtor'spre-bankruptcy debts. That discharge, however, is subjectto a number of statutory exceptions, each exceptionreflecting a congressional judgment that a particular category of debt be paid notwithstanding the priorbankruptcy. Those exceptions include not only debts formoney obtained by fraud, debts for injuries caused bydrunk driving, and amounts due for alimony and childsupport.With respect to the fraud exception at issuehere, under the Bankruptcy Code and this Court's cases, adebt is nondischargeable in bankruptcy if the creditor canestablish that the underlying debt arises out of an act offraud. The question presented in this case is whether a th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC debt that would otherwise be nondischargeable for thatreason becomes dischargeable if the parties enter into asettlement agreement that resolves the amount of the debt.The court of appeals said that a settlement didhave that effect, emphasizing that the effect of asettlement was to trade a fraud claim for a contractaction that would be discharged in bankruptcy.QUESTION: Is it your understanding that if theFourth Circuit were correct and were to be affirmed inthis case, that its rule would be the generally prevailingrule in all of the States, or would certain States differon whether or not there was, in effect, a novation whenthere was a settlement agreement? Would we have to goState-by-State?MR. GOLDBLATT: No, Your Honor. The question ofdischargeability is a question of Federal law. That ishow each of the courts of appeals that have addressed thequestion has treated it. Indeed, this Court, in Groganversus Garner, has emphasized that the construction ofsection (a) of the Bankruptcy Code is a question ofFederal law.QUESTION: Well, my -- my question, perhaps, wasnot as clear as it ought to have been. The Fourth Circuitplaced substantial reliance on the fact that this was anovation under State law, that there was a new debt th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC created superseding the old, et cetera, and my question iswhether or not -- if we affirm its judgment, that we willfind in almost every other State a settlement is also anovation, or will the rule vary from State to State, andif it does vary from State to State, will the FourthCircuit rule from this particular State be the majorityrule or minority?MR. GOLDBLATT: Your Honor, the court of appealsdid, indeed, say that the -- the settlement effected anovation. That is a common rule. I'm unaware of anyjurisdiction in which that -- that wouldn't be theprinciple. The question, nevertheless, before this Courtis the effect as a matter of Federal bankruptcy law ofthat settlement.QUESTION: I'm -- I'm well aware of that, but what I'm just asking is -- this case came from SouthCarolina, was it?MR. GOLDBLATT: From North Carolina, Your Honor.QUESTION: Oh, from North Carolina.MR. GOLDBLATT: Yes.QUESTION: Is the North Carolina rule aboutnovations and settlements the majority rule for most ofthe States? In most States, would this be called anovation?MR. GOLDBLATT: Yes, Your Honor. I'm unaware of th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC any jurisdiction in which a settlement doesn't effectnovation. When the parties to a dispute settle thatdispute, it is commonly the case that -- indeed, in everyjurisdiction of which I'm aware, following thatsettlement, the -- the creditor or the plaintiff is unableto bring a new lawsuit for fraud. Rather, the party isleft to enforce the -- the settlement.QUESTION: Mr. Goldblatt, I take it you'resaying, yeah, a novation is fine with you. No longer dothey have the original claim. They have substituted forit, what the claim is, the amount of the settlement. The -- what was it, immediate payment of X dollars? Wasit ,?MR. GOLDBLATT: It was an immediate payment of$, and a promissory note for $,. QUESTION: And that's -- that's what they --they say is the basis of their claim in bankruptcy. Theythink -- they know they can't go back to the originalclaim. To that extent, it's a novation. That's notdisputed. But there is one element of the background ofthis case perhaps you can clarify for me. It's odd thatLeonard Warner stipulated that this was a nondischargeabledebt, but his wife, who's in the bankruptcy with him, saysyes, it is dischargeable. What is the effect of thestipulation by Leonard Warner that this debt is th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC nondischargeable?MR. GOLDBLATT: Your Honor, Leonard Warnerstipulates that the debt is nondischargeable as to him. With respect to Mrs. Warner, it would remain our burden inbankruptcy to show that -- that there is an act of fraudthat is properly attributable to her, either because shecommitted it herself or by some principle of agency thatit is nondischargeable because of her, so I -- I don'tbelieve that the -- the stipulation by its terms is -- isdispositive on the question of whether it isnondischargeable as -- as to her.QUESTION: But does that mean that -- let's saythe Fourth Circuit is affirmed, that you could still,post-bankruptcy, go after Mr. Warner because he stipulatedthat the debt as to him was nondischargeable? MR. GOLDBLATT: I -- I believe that -- that's afinal and unappealable order at this point, and yes,that's right, of course. Petitioners assert that theyhave the right as a matter of Federal bankruptcy law alsoto continue to recover on this debt as againstMrs. Warner, who also is an obligor on the promissorynote.On the essential point that, Justice Ginsburg,you were making with respect to the holding below, thedescription you offered is -- is exactly right. It is th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC true that there is a novation. It is true that theunderlying claim of fraud has been released, but just --that was equally true in this Court's decision in Brownversus Felsen.In Brown, the parties to a State courtlitigation resolved that litigation by agreeing to theentry of a consent judgment. It was as equally truethere, as it is here, that the parties who had been --whose litigation had ended in the consent judgment werebarred, in that case by the preclusive effect of theconsent judgment, here by the binding effect of thesettlement, from bringing a new suit claiming fraud. Allthey could do was enforce the consent judgment.Nevertheless, this Court held in a unanimousopinion in Brown versus Felsen that in bankruptcy, the creditor nevertheless had the right to seek to establishthat the underlying debt arises out of an act of fraud,and the -- the reason this Court --QUESTION: Well, of course, there it wasn't justthe underlying debt. It was trying to find out what thejudgment actually decided. They were -- they were able togo beyond the terms of the judgment to determine what thejudgment actually resolved. I'm not quite sure it'sexactly parallel --MR. GOLDBLATT: Well, yes, Justice Stevens, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC that's right, and here what -- what petitioners seek to dois go behind the settlement agreement --QUESTION: Yes.MR. GOLDBLATT: -- and see what the settlementactually resolved.QUESTION: Supposing the settlement -- they hadgone along with the settlement, and then they came up witha -- a third proposal where the debtor said, I'm not sureI'm going to be able to meet my obligations, but I've gotanother proposal, we'll go in the joint venture to dosomething else and we'll release the contract claim andsubstitute a third, could you go -- still continue to gobehind to find out what the original source of the debtwas?MR. GOLDBLATT: Yes. Yes, Your Honor. QUESTION: So even if, say, they had five or sixdifferent transactions, each of which purported to be acomplete substitute for the deal they had just been unableto -- you can always go -- say, Well, the whole thingstarted because you cheated me out of something?MR. GOLDBLATT: Well -- well, for eachparticular debt that one asserts is nondischargeable, thecreditor bears the burden of proving in bankruptcy thatthat debt arises out of an act of fraud.QUESTION: Directly or indirectly out of. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. GOLDBLATT: That's right, but nevertheless,under Brown versus Felsen, that is the creditor's --QUESTION: Suppose I have an indebtedness. I'mrunning a business and I have one indebtedness, and inorder to cover the payments for that indebtedness, I incura second indebtedness which I otherwise would not haveincurred, is that traceable to fraud?MR. GOLDBLATT: If the original indebtednessarises out of an act of fraud, Justice Scalia, then --then yes, it is all debt --QUESTION: Anything that happens later is --that -- that wouldn't have happened but for the originalindebtedness is, within the terms of the Bankruptcy Act,traceable to the fraud?MR. GOLDBLATT: Justice Scalia, we -- we certainly acknowledge that there must be some principleof, say, proximate causation.QUESTION: Exactly, and that's all we're talkingabout here, isn't -- isn't it? How -- how -- you know,how far down the line do we carry traceable to, and does anovation end the traceability, but you -- you have toacknowledge it has to end somewhere.MR. GOLDBLATT: There certainly is a principleof proximate causation. You -- you need to show thatthere is a direct connection between the act of fraud -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: Wait, but what about -- I mean, thisdoesn't make too much sense to me. You say, A owes B$, because of a fraud that A committed against B, sothey settle it, and they say, our settlement arrangementis the following. We enter into a new business calledMacy's Department Store, and many years later there'sanother debt between the partners arising out of buyingfurniture for Macy's that has nothing to do with fraud,and now you're saying that that debt's going to be neverdischargeable because the cause of Macy's was the fraud?MR. GOLDBLATT: No, Justice Breyer, I'm notsuggesting that there is never a point in which thecausation becomes too tenuous that you can't prove thatthe debt that one is contending is --QUESTION: No, I -- absolutely. Macy's wouldnever have been created but for the debt, no doubt aboutthat.MR. GOLDBLATT: But not -- not only is -- is theprinciple of --QUESTION: They never would have had thisfurniture argument but for the debt.QUESTION: Well, you're talking not just aboutcause, but about proximate cause.MR. GOLDBLATT: Exactly. It's not just aquestion of but-for causation, but as in common law, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC proximate causation.QUESTION: And what does that mean, proximatecause, then? What's the difference between this case andMacy's? MR. GOLDBLATT: Your Honor, here, all thathappened is that the -- the form of the debt changed. Theparties entered into a settlement agreement in which theychanged the debt from an unliquidated cause of action forfraud into a liquidated promissory note.QUESTION: In -- in connection with that, oneside said to the other, I don't care whether this has comeout of fraud or not. Regardless of whether it came out offraud, I'm going to give you this money, and we'll bequits. Why isn't that enough to terminate the proximity,because the averment of both parties is, never mind fraud, it doesn't have anything to do with fraud, we're going tosettle this. Whether there was fraud or whether therewasn't fraud, you get the money.MR. GOLDBLATT: That -- that's right, YourHonor, and all a creditor seeks to do in showing a debt asnondischargeable is seeks to enforce the debtor's promiseto pay the amount of money given in that settlement.QUESTION: That's true, but -- but here itwas -- there was no acknowledgement of the fraud. It wasgiven with the averment that this debt does not hinge upon th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC fraud. This debt is just to settle this controversybetween us whether there was fraud or whether there wasn'tfraud.MR. GOLDBLATT: That's --QUESTION: Why isn't that enough to terminatethe proximity necessary for -- for nondischargeability inbankruptcy?MR. GOLDBLATT: Just a couple of -- of answers. First, it -- it doesn't terminate the proximity any morethan the consent judgment in Brown versus Felsen mighthave terminated the proximity in that case. It's, ofcourse, true that a -- a consent judgment operates as a --extinguishes the prior cause of action and the claimsmerge into the consent judgment.Nevertheless, this Court said in Brown versus Felsen that notwithstanding the preclusive effect of thatjudgment, a creditor has the right in bankruptcy toestablish that the debt is traceable to fraud, and what itsaid is --QUESTION: But doesn't a consent judgmentalways, at -- always hinge upon the existence of a causeof action?MR. GOLDBLATT: Presumably yes, Your Honor,and --QUESTION: Whereas a settlement doesn't. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. GOLDBLATT: That's right, and unless thecreditor can prove in bankruptcy that the debt that's nowreflected in -- in the settlement agreement is traceableto an act of fraud, the creditor will lose thenondischargeability action, and the only question iswhether the creditor should have the opportunity toestablish in bankruptcy that there is, in fact, an act offraud that -- that is reflected in and resolved by theconsent judgment.The consent judgment that says expressly -- itdoesn't say there's no fraud. It says that this is acompromise of disputed claims, and in exchange for therelease, what the creditor got was a clear carve-out fromthat release for the right to enforce the $, of debtthat's reflected in the promissory note. QUESTION: It doesn't say there's no fraud, butit does say that this indebtedness has nothing to do withwhether or not there was fraud. Whether or not there wasfraud --MR. GOLDBLATT: That's right. The settlement --QUESTION: -- this indebtedness exists. Itseems to me it severs the connection between the fraud andthe indebtedness.MR. GOLDBLATT: But it is completely silent onthe question of whether fraud had occurred, just as the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC consent judgment in Brown v. Felsen was completely silenton the question whether that debt arose out of contract orfraud. In Brown, this Court said that the creditor hasthe opportunity to look behind the fraud -- to look behindthe settlement to determine whether or not it was forfraud, and there -- there's no difference here.Your Honor --QUESTION: Would there be -- would there be adifference if the settlement had expressly said, westipulate that there was no fraud leading to the creationof the debt of -- for which this in effect is a -- anovation?MR. GOLDBLATT: Justice Souter --QUESTION: Would that make a difference?MR. GOLDBLATT: Justice Souter, that would be a much harder case for reasons we set out in -- in ourbriefs. We contend as a matter of bankruptcy policy thereare reasons why such an agreement shouldn't be enforced,but that would certainly be a much more difficult casethan this one.QUESTION: But your argument here is we don'treally have to get to bankruptcy policy. There simply hasnot been an agreement which eliminates the fraudulentcharacter of the debt. Is that basically it?MR. GOLDBLATT: That's -- that's exactly right, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Justice Souter.The way this works in bankruptcy is that whenthe debtor files for bankruptcy with this promissory noteoutstanding for a hundred-and-some-thousand dollars, thecreditor comes into bankruptcy and files a proof of claimsaying, I have a claim of a hundred-and-some- thousanddollars, and I'm entitled to my pro rata distribution onthat hundred-and-some-thousand dollars. The proof ofclaim is on page of the joint appendix.No one's contending that the release bars thecreditor from seeking recovery on the amount of that debt. The only question is whether they can receive recovery inthe full amount of the debt by showing it'snondischargeable, or whether they're limited to simply thecents on the dollar that the claim will pay in bankruptcy, because the text of the Bankruptcy Code makes clear thatthe form of the debt doesn't matter, that a debt -- thatunder section , a debt can take any number ofdifferent -- under -- I'm sorry.Under section of the Bankruptcy Code, anydebt, the code says, is nondischargeable if it's traceableto an act of fraud, and the code defines debt very broadlyto include debts that are liquidated, unliquidated,reduced to judgment, et cetera. It's quite clear the formof the debt doesn't matter, unless -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: But the traceability does, and that'swhat we're talking about here, how traceable is traceable.MR. GOLDBLATT: That's right, Justice Scalia,and with respect to that question there is -- there is nodifference between a consent judgment that is a finaladjudication of the claims between the parties and asettlement agreement, both of which are equallypreclusive, and both of which are equally silent on thequestion of whether fraud occurred.Unless the Court has further questions, I'llreserve the balance of my time.QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. Goldblatt.Ms. Blatt, we'll hear from you.ORAL ARGUMENT OF LISA S. BLATTON BEHALF OF THE UNITED STATES, AS AMICUS CURIAE, SUPPORTING THE PETITIONERSMS. BLATT: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice, andmay it please the Court:When a creditor settles a fraud claim withoutresolving the disputed issue of fraud, the creditor hasthe right to enforce the settlement debt for the fullamount in bankruptcy by filing a proof of claim and byestablishing fraud in response to the defense ofdischargeability. That conclusion is confirmed by Brown,which held that a creditor who settles a fraud claim by th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC consent judgment may establish fraud in response to abankruptcy --QUESTION: But the real inquiry in Brown, as Iread it, is can we go behind a judgment to see what wasactually determined by the judgment. It wasn't anyemphasis on the settlement aspect of it, as I read theopinion.MS. BLATT: Right.QUESTION: And I guess the holding is, yes, youmay go behind a judgment to see what was decided, and thatseems to me a little different from going behind asettlement.QUESTION: Well, didn't Brown decide twoseparate issues?MS. BLATT: The Court in Brown did two things. The Court -- the question of fraud was not litigated inBrown because the case was settled, and the Courtmentioned in its last footnote that there would be adifferent situation if the question of fraud was actuallylitigated.The question before the bankruptcy court inBrown is whether the money owed under that consentjudgment was money obtained by fraud. So, too, the exactsame question is relevant here.QUESTION: It didn't look to what the Court had th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC decided, but what the claim was about, but here we havesomething in addition. There is a judicial order. Therewas a complaint filed, and it was dismissed as part of thesettlement. That complaint in the court action wasdismissed with prejudice. What effect should that have?MS. BLATT: Not -- a dismissal with prejudicefollowing a settlement. As this Court stated in Lawlorversus National Screen Service, it's cited in the replybrief at page , is that it has -- does not havepreclusive effect on the disputed issue unless thejudgment is accompanied by specific findings on thedisputed issue, and that's the classic requirement forissue preclusion or collateral estoppel, that the matterbe actually litigated.QUESTION: We're not talking issue preclusion, just -- just as far as whether it suffices to terminatethe traceability. That -- that isn't necessarilycoextensive with -- with whether there was issuepreclusion.MS. BLATT: No, the -- the dismissal withprejudice doesn't impair the creditor's right to walk intocourt and sue to enforce the settlement debt, includingthe right to try to get the full amount of the settlementdebt in bankruptcy, and on this issue of traceability,it -- it is not only identical to Brown, but the code by th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC its express terms disclaims any distinction between aliquidated debt and an unliquidated debt. The settlementin Brown and the settlement here converts an unliquidatedfraud claim into a liquidated claim to collect on thesettlement debt.QUESTION: May I -- would you just clear up onething for me? Say the fraud claim was for $, andthe contract was -- the novation was $,, in thebankruptcy court do you contend they can get the full or just the ?MS. BLATT: No. Under -- under -- he wouldbe -- the -- the creditor would be bound by the settlementagreement under principles of State law that the amount ofhis debt would only be the $,.QUESTION: It seems like a strange result, doesn't it?QUESTION: I don't understand that.QUESTION: Why shouldn't he get the full amount?QUESTION: You conduct this big inquiry and findout that the guy's been defrauded of $, and then thatthe settlement agreement really covers up a fraud and yousay, Well, but you know, a deal's a deal. Even though youdefrauded him of it and the whole thing's traceable tofraud, we're only going to give you $,. That's verystrange. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MS. BLATT: I'm sorry, are you talking about thesettlement agreement itself was procured by fraud?QUESTION: No, no, no, no. No, the settlementagreement was just an arm's-length agreement, but if youfind that, in fact, the debt underlying that -- thatagreement was fraudulently obtained, having gone throughall the trouble of determining that fact, why don't youmake the guy cough up all the money that he got by fraud?MS. BLATT: The Court -- the Court addressedthis very issue in Brown. The creditor there did not geta fraud judgment for exemplary damages and special --special damages under State law. He was limited to, inbankruptcy, of just seeking this settlement debt, and whatthe bankruptcy code does is, it gives the creditor astatutory right to render that settlement debt nondischargeable if fraud can be -- can be shown.You don't -- and there's another way of lookingat it, too. The Court --QUESTION: But -- but what's the policy reasonbehind that. I mean, if -- if what we're concerned aboutis vindicating the Federal policy that the -- theBankruptcy Code protects only honest debtors and notdishonest debtors, why not give them the whole $,? I mean, I -- I know Brown didn't do that, but why didn'tit do that? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MS. BLATT: The Court in Grogan -- it's becauseof two issues, Justice Kennedy. Under State -- State lawdetermines the amount of the debt that is owed, andthere's just no question, at least I don't think that thecreditor could make an argument that he's owed any morethan $,. He can't relitigate and try to get up to$,. That's just governed by State law.QUESTION: Well, the Fourth Circuit -- theFourth Circuit says State law says that this is anovation, too, so -- and you're -- you don't want us to bebound by that interpretation of State law.MS. BLATT: The -- again, this Court in Groganversus Carter said that State law determines the amount ofthe debt, and I just don't think the creditor would have agood faith argument that he could go beyond the settlement agreement, but on the question of nondischargeability,what the creditor is trying to do is collect the entireamount of the debt by -- by showing fraud, and we thinkapplying Brown --QUESTION: What their main argument, I think, onthe other side is, you get a debt, that's what it is, adebt for money obtained by fraud, and this is not a debtfor money obtained by fraud, this is a debt for money owedunder a settlement agreement.Now, the virtue of that is, it's a bright line, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC and what we're saying, I think, in the negative -- thenegative of it is that if you depart from that, wellthere's no end to it. You have a settlement agreement,and no matter how long you go into the future, whatever itis, that -- whatever it says you're supposed to do in thatsettlement agreement, it is. Use the words proximatecause, use whatever they want, but it is a debt. Where itcomes from is the fraud.That's where the source of the debt is, nomatter what it says in that settlement agreement, andthere's just no stopping place, no way to look into it, noattenuation forever, et cetera, so that's what I'd likeyou to here address.MS. BLATT: Well, this Court already crossedthat bridge in Brown.QUESTION: Well, all right, so then maybe Brownwas wrong.MS. BLATT: But the second point is that --QUESTION: Maybe it was wrong.MS. BLATT: Whatever the limits of thetraceability point, which this Court addressed in aseparate decision, Cohen versus de la Cruz, which dealtwith the traceability aspects --QUESTION: There is no traceability. There'snever a problem. Underlying this was the fraud. Whatever th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC it says in that settlement agreement is based on fraud.MS. BLATT: The code itself says that anyenforceable obligation, whether or not it's liquidated orunliquidated or appears in a judgment, if you can provethat there has been a fraudulent acquisition of money, theresulting debt is nondischargeable, and that is --QUESTION: Ms. Blatt, what is your -- what isthe Government's position if the parties had expresslydealt with it in the settlement agreement?MS. BLATT: We think the right would be subjectto waiver. We don't think -- we don't see anything in thecode that would be --QUESTION: So you don't agree with petitioner'scounsel that it's a harder case, but wouldn't give it up?MS. BLATT: We think the right can be waived. What we do think, though --QUESTION: All right, now, the language in thisparticular settlement agreement gave up claims arising outof or relating to the matter of the State courtlitigation. Was that not a waiver of this claim?MS. BLATT: No, it certainly wasn't a waiver ofthe right to collect on the debt, and in fact there's anexpress preservation of not only the right to collect allthe obligations under the promissory note, but to collectthe amounts under the settlement agreement, and we think th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC to apply a contrary rule, the rule that the court belowapplied, would be unsound for three reasons.It would force creditors and parties trying tosettle a case to start negotiating over bankruptcycontingencies that are purely hypothetical, may neverhappen, and are entirely extraneous to the settlement. The rule adopted by Brown also, our second point, is thatit reflects the common sense and ordinary understandingthat settlements preserve the creditor's right to enforcethe settlement agreement and the statutory right to provefraud to render the debt enforceable, notwithstandingbankruptcy, and that has been the premise of hundreds, ifnot thousands of settlement agreements entered into by theGovernment that do not refer to bankruptcy contingencies.Third, to hold that those settlement agreements waive the creditor's rights in bankruptcy would renderdebts dischargeable even where the debtor committed fraud,and that result would undermine congressional policy tofavor the rights of innocent victims of fraud over theperpetrators of fraud.QUESTION: But you do agree that some fraudclaims could be waived as far as the dischargeability,because you wrote the rights settlement agreement.MS. BLATT: Yes, if there was an affirmativemanifestation of an intent. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: Why isn't that inconsistent with thestatutory policy, just as this case would be?MS. BLATT: Because there is a backgroundpresumption, Justice Stevens, that rights are subject towaiver, and so if there's an intentional relinquishment ofa Federal statutory right, then a court can give thateffect, but not only is there silence on that issue inthis case, there is an express reservation of the right toenforce the settlement agreement, and --QUESTION: To enforce the settlement agreement.MS. BLATT: Yes, and that includes --QUESTION: But that's not a reservation of theright to sue for fraud.MS. BLATT: They're not suing for fraud. They're suing to collect on the settlement agreement for the full amount in bankruptcy. By asking the bankruptcycourt, not only by filing the proof of claim, but torender the debt survivable and enforceable in bankruptcy. It's no different than the settlement judgment in -- inBrown.QUESTION: Thank you, Ms. Blatt.Mr. Ayer, we'll hear from you.ORAL ARGUMENT OF DONALD B. AYERON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTMR. AYER: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice, and may th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC it please the Court:I would like to make four points this morning. The first one, to pick up on what Justice O'Connor said, Ithink there's a fundamental misconception in the questionas it's presented and as it was described by Mr. Goldblattthis morning, and this conception is that what we'redealing with here is a categorical rule that says thatwhenever you have a settlement, because it's a contract,it bars any further pursuit of a nondischarge claim.That is completely inconsistent with theholdings of the court below, all of which lookedspecifically at the language of the release and concludedthat what had specifically been released was the right topursue the claim under .Second --QUESTION: This would have been a release inState court proceedings?MR. AYER: Correct, Your Honor, and -- and thatleads to the second point, which is that what is at issuehere really is the interpretation of the language, thespecific language --QUESTION: There's no language about , whichyou just said --MR. AYER: That's correct, Your Honor.QUESTION: -- this is a standard settlement. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC It's a compromise. Neither side is admitting anything. One side is not admitting fraud, and the other side isn'tsaying we've proved fraud. It's just a zero on there.MR. AYER: Well, Your Honor, I think what yousaid in terms of the language is certainly correct. I think the important issue is that this is a settlementand, indeed, there is also a -- a voluntary dismissal withprejudice in a State court case. I would submit theproper analysis of that is to interpret the settlementunder State law and then ask the question, is there someproblem with Federal bankruptcy law that requires you tosomehow override what's been agreed to or what's been donein State court.QUESTION: But isn't -- isn't the problem withapproaching it that way -- I -- at least, I think the problem with approaching it that way is that there is noState law analog to the issue that is being raised here. In other words, under -- under State law, there was afraud claim, there was a settlement of the fraud claim,but there is no issue under State law about bankruptcy,and that is strictly a -- a Federal policy --MR. AYER: Well --QUESTION: -- and I don't know how we get --we -- we look to State law to find out whether there isdoubt or not, but I don't know why State law should be a th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC source of an answer to this Federal question, which ispeculiarly Federal.MR. AYER: Well, I -- I don't think, Your Honor,that it is the final answer, but it seems to me it'sentirely possible for parties in a State court proceedingto enter into a settlement that says, and we herebyspecifically release our claim, and had that been --QUESTION: They -- they might be able to -- Imean, I'll assume for the sake of argument that they mightbe able to do that, but in -- in that case, the -- theissue here would be resolved, on -- on your theory,certainly, by the express agreement with the parties, andthey didn't do that, so we've got a case in which theydidn't agree on the issue expressly, and I don't see whyState law, which doesn't have the issue, is a good place to look for the answer.MR. AYER: Well, I think -- I guess my point,Your Honor, is that the question of whether they expresslyagreed to it becomes a question of interpretation, and Iwould like to get to arguing that they did, in fact,expressly agree to it. The first --QUESTION: Well, didn't Brown versus Felsensuggest some discouragement to the idea of anticipatorylitigation in State courts of issues that would arise inbankruptcy court? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. AYER: I -- I think Brown versus Felsencertainly expressed the view that they didn't want toencourage people to have to affirmatively determine fraudin State court when it had been, in fact, been -- been --the issue of nondischargeability had been put into thebankruptcy court, but nothing in Brown versus Felsen inany way qualifies the proposition that parties can, in aState court proceeding, resolve, for example, by trial anissue of fraud that would be preclusive under collateralestoppel.QUESTION: You say it doesn't qualify theproposition. It doesn't address the proposition.MR. AYER: Correct.QUESTION: Suppose --MR. AYER: But it does, Your Honor, address it in the sense, and then Grogan confirms that collateralestoppel does apply, so that if you have a Stateproceeding --QUESTION: There's -- there's no collateralestoppel here. That argument absolutely dumbfounded me,frankly, because for collateral estoppel, issuepreclusion, you must have raised, actually litigated,there must be a court determination of the issue, and thatdetermination must be essential to the judgment. Youdon't have any actual litigation here, so I don't know how th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC you can --MR. AYER: Your Honor, under this Court'sMatsushita decision, it is perfectly clear that in orderto determine whether there's issue preclusion, you have tolook at the State law in the State where the judgment isentered, and -- and the State law, as we indicate in ourbrief, in North Carolina is that if you have a voluntarydismissal with prejudice under the Miller Building case,under the Barnes case, that voluntary dismissal withprejudice resolves the issues that were put in issue --QUESTION: The only decision that you cite fromthe North Carolina Supreme Court says, we go down the linewith what is the standard understanding of issuepreclusion, actually litigated, decided, and essential tothe judgment.MR. AYER: Your Honor, I --QUESTION: That's what the North CarolinaSupreme Court said.MR. AYER: I disagree, Your Honor. The -- theThomas McInnis case that you're referring to is a casewhere what actually happened with regard to the issue ofwhether prejudgment interest was available was that ahusband, in litigating that issue, in fact, failed totimely raise it, and when he failed to timely raise it,the wife was subsequently collaterally estopped from th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC pursuing it.There's one sentence in the Thomas McInnis casethat says, we apply the usual principles of collateralestoppel. There are multiple cases, Your Honor, in NorthCarolina that are entirely clear that the rule is that ifyou have a voluntary dismissal with prejudice, thatvoluntary dismissal is determinative as though the matter,and this of -- almost a quote, as though --QUESTION: Well, that would certainly runentirely against the stream, and it would run against theRestatement of Judgments, which you cite, and that saysyou must manifest -- yes, parties can make a stipulationfinding. They can do it in a consent judgment just asthey can in the settlement, but they have to make thatmanifest.MR. AYER: Right.QUESTION: The court does not infer that anissue that was never litigated was, in fact, decided.MR. AYER: I guess what -- what I would like tosuggest to -- to the Court is that what we do have here isa settlement of a State court litigation followed by avoluntary dismissal with prejudice, that the effect ofthat, of those acts, including the language, becausethat's what the courts here -- all three of these courtsfocus specifically on the precise language, and they th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC concluded that that language was a waiver. I would submitthat was --QUESTION: Well, if they concluded that it's awaiver of claim, and we don't have any -- I presume no onehas a problem with that. The question is whether thereis -- is a waiver on the disputed fact issue, and -- andmy -- my question to you is, you -- you refer to themyriad State law cases that hold in your favor. Is itclear that those are cases on issue preclusion --MR. AYER: Yes, Your Honor.QUESTION: -- as opposed to claim preclusion --MR. AYER: Yes, Your Honor --QUESTION: -- or res judicata?MR. AYER: The -- the Miller Building case andthe Barnes case, both of those cases involved collateral estoppel. It was invoked by a new party, and it wasclearly based upon the fact that the -- that the matterhad been -- in one case, it was a voluntary stipulationwith prejudice. The other was a voluntary --QUESTION: Well, was it a stipulation that --that expressly addressed the -- the fact issue?MR. AYER: I don't believe you can tell from theopinion, and that's not, certainly, what they rely on. The principle that is stated in those cases in a -- in acategorical way, and I can -- I can read it to the Court, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC is that -- let's see.QUESTION: May I read you the language fromMcInnis, which is the North Carolina Supreme Court? Itwas not just simply a statement that, we recognize issuepreclusion in its traditional guise. It was, issuepreclusion does not apply unless, quote, the prior suitresulted in a judgment on the merits, identical issues areinvolved, the issue was actually litigated, the issue wasactually determined.Now, you're asking us to reject that as the lawof the -- North Carolina.MR. AYER: Well, I -- I think, Your Honor, thereare -- there are many Federal court cases that recognizethat a matter which is not actually litigated in the sensethat it went to trial and was determined after a trial or a fact-finding. If the parties intend for a settlementagreement to be preclusive, and that is incorporated intoa judgment, that will have collateral estoppel effect, andthat's what happened --QUESTION: Well, are you relying on -- I thoughtyou were relying on North Carolina law.MR. AYER: We are. I'm simply trying to pointout that the notion that there is some sweeping,overarching general law that says it always must beactually litigated, that that, in fact, is not correct. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: No, I -- no, no, we made it plain,and I don't think there's any question here that theparties can stipulate, and the stipulation will have --will have the same effect as a finding, but, as theRestatement of Judgments points out, that must be mademanifest. You don't imply it from words that don't say,and we stipulate that this claim is going to bedischargeable in bankruptcy.MR. AYER: Well, what -- let me suggest to theCourt a -- a way in which this was clear. First of all,I -- I do really want to emphasize that -- that all threeof the opinions of the court below, none of them adoptthis sort of categorical, it's a contract, therefore theright is waived approach. That is not the issue in any ofthese cases. They all look at the specific language, and they reason to the conclusion.The -- the court of appeals, for example,specifically said that, quote, a --QUESTION: Where are you quoting from, Mr. Ayer? What page?MR. AYER: Let's see, here. Page a of the --of the appendix.QUESTION: Thank you.MR. AYER: The petition appendix.They said, in invoking the novation concept, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC it's necessary --QUESTION: Whereabouts on the page are you?MR. AYER: It's actually -- I'm sorry, YourHonor, it's -- it's a. If you look at the end of thefirst paragraph, under the novation theory, courts needonly address -- wait a minute. I'm sorry, the top of thepage on a. When following the novation theory, the termsof the settlement should be examined to determine whetherthe nondischargeability claims were released.The rest of that page is an examination of theterms, and if you look over onto the next page, a, theyquote the West case, which says, a promissory note doesnot discharge the underlying obligation unless the partiesexpressly release and substitute the new. That is whatthese cases are all about, all three of them, and the question of whether the settlement released the claim is aquestion, I would submit, in the first instance -- not inthe last instance, but in the first instance, it's aquestion of State law, and --QUESTION: I think there's no dispute that thesettlement released the claim. There's no dispute thatthere was a novation here. There's no dispute that theyno longer have the original fraud claim. They have aclaim only on the promissory note that they got as aresult of the settlement, so it -- they're -- they're not th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC claiming, oh, we can go back to the day we filed our fraudcomplaint. They're saying, we have a debt here, apromissory note, and that is the sum total of what we canclaim.MR. AYER: Right, but Your Honor, the -- theholding of all the courts below went beyond what YourHonor is saying.QUESTION: The words that you read --MR. AYER: Well --QUESTION: -- are simply supportive of that --MR. AYER: -- let me -- let me --QUESTION: -- but you can't -- you can't getanything more than the amount of the promissory note thatresults from the settlement.MR. AYER: Well, let me refer the Court, for example, to a of the petition appendix, where it isstated that, quote, by including in the release futureclaims --QUESTION: What -- what is this from, this isthe opinion of the bankruptcy court?MR. AYER: This is the opinion of the bankruptcycourt. I'm just trying to -- this was the consistentanalysis in all of these courts. By including in therelease future claims, the court concludes that theplaintiffs effectively released and extinguished the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC dischargeability claim which they now seek to assert.QUESTION: Well, that's a new, different issuethan we granted, isn't it? I mean, that's -- thequestion, I take it, is, we're assuming there is anovation, there is a settlement, and fine, and thatsettlement says, I promise to pay $,, so it's adebt. It's a debt for money, and the question is, is it adebt for money obtained by actual fraud?MR. AYER: Well --QUESTION: If so, how do we characterize thatdebt?MR. AYER: I --QUESTION: You're saying it was, but it wasreleased. I -- I don't see that we reach that.MR. AYER: Well, whether -- whether this is a different issue than you granted, I guess -- I -- I agreethat the question as it was presented in the petition --QUESTION: Yes.MR. AYER: -- is most easily read as this broad,blanket rule. That is not --QUESTION: Well, I -- I would assume that thetext and the wording here that you're relying on, and therule of the State about a novation and so forth, are --are prevalent, not universal, but are -- are the standardform of -- of settlement and release in almost every th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC State, and apparently the novation rule is standard aswell, so the -- the result that you're asking us to reachis that this also forecloses any Federal characterizationof this as being a debt incurred by fraud, and -- andthat's a very sweeping statement, and a very sweepingrule.MR. AYER: Well, I -- I think -- I think thereis -- I think the ultimate question, and the last questionand the fourth question I'm hoping to get to, and I willget to now, is the question of, if -- if you agree with mefor purposes of argument that initially, you look to seewhat the State settlement does and, indeed, here also whatthe effect under State law of the voluntary discharge withprejudice is -- voluntary dismissal with prejudice is,and -- and you see, as these courts below held, that the effect is, in fact, to give up the right, then thequestion is, is there something about Federal bankruptcylaw or policy that prevents parties from voluntarilyagreeing to do that?QUESTION: May I go back just one step? Supposethis settlement had been entered as a consent judgment,just as was the case in Brown against Felsen, what then?MR. AYER: I think it would depend, Your Honor,what was in the consent judgment.QUESTION: Nothing. The Court just enters -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC there's -- the parties' settlement is incorporated in theconsent judgment.MR. AYER: I -- I think it would become aquestion of whether, under the laws of the place where theconsent judgment is entered, the fact that there's asettlement that is somehow appended to that order, if it'sappended, whether that becomes limiting or defining of theterms of what's agreed to.If all you have -- I would agree with this. Ifall you have --QUESTION: Wasn't -- in -- in Brown againstFelsen, there wasn't -- the settlement was not on therecord?MR. AYER: There's -- there's no discussion,Your Honor. In fact, what's pretty clear in Brown versus Felsen, and the critical difference between Brown and thiscase is that there was no -- there was no kind of anyrelease of a fraud claim. You simply had the settlement,and the -- the creditor got paid, and -- and nobody hadyet proven affirmatively that there was fraud.What this Court said is, on those facts, you getto come in and prove fraud.QUESTION: Okay, so you're -- you're thenconceding the following, is that right, that if, in fact,I owe you $, because I cheated you by fraud, we then th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC enter into a settlement which might be approved by thecourt, assume it is, and what that settlement says is, inlight of what you claim I did to you, cheat you throughfraud, I promise to pay $,, and you are conceding ifthat's all there is to the case, that that isnondischargeable?MR. AYER: I -- I am at least conceding thatthere's no waiver of the right to argue --QUESTION: Well, I want to know on my -- thefacts I just gave you --MR. AYER: Well, it -- it --QUESTION: -- in your opinion --MR. AYER: Your --QUESTION: -- is that , debtnondischargeable?MR. AYER: If it amounts to a clear concessionthat there was fraud, yes.QUESTION: No. What I'm saying is, you have thefacts I gave you.MR. AYER: Okay.QUESTION: Remember what they were.MR. AYER: In consideration of --QUESTION: You said it was $, obtained byfraud. I said, I will settle that by entering into thispiece of paper which says, I promise to pay . th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. AYER: I -- I would say --QUESTION: Approved by the court.MR. AYER: I would -- I would say that that isnon -- that is not nondischargeable without affirmativelyproving fraud, although you would --QUESTION: There are -- there are too manynegatives in your statement.MR. AYER: Well, you --QUESTION: I'm lost.(Laughter.)MR. AYER: That leaves --QUESTION: I give -- remember my example. Iwant to say, in your opinion, is that nondischargeable,yes or no?MR. AYER: It is not non -- it is --(Laughter.)MR. AYER: It is not clear from the hypotheticalthat it is nondischargeable, but it is certainly not --you have the opportunity to come into bankruptcy court andprove fraud. Your -- your hypothetical does not establishfraud.QUESTION: Oh, okay, but you're saying you havean opportunity --MR. AYER: Yes.QUESTION: -- to prove the fraud? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. AYER: Absolutely.QUESTION: And your case is different from thatin -- I gave in which respect?MR. AYER: In the respect --QUESTION: In the release?MR. AYER: In the respect that our case includedlanguage which was interpreted by all three of thesecourts as a release -- under State law as a release of theright to go to bankruptcy court and pursue --QUESTION: Fine, and the reason that's in thequestion presented is?QUESTION: Yes, it isn't in the questionpresented, that's what I thought.MR. AYER: The reason it's in the questionpresented is because it's --it is the holding of the case below.QUESTION: Well --MR. AYER: The case below doesn't --QUESTION: -- the -- the question presented,Mr. Ayer, is whether a debt that would otherwise benondischargeable becomes dischargeable if the partiesenter a settlement agreement under which the amount of thedebt is -- it literally doesn't say anything about fraudor collateral estoppel.MR. AYER: That's correct, Your Honor. I guess th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC what I would say is that that question is --QUESTION: You're answering the question. Youjust want to answer it, maybe, right?MR. AYER: Well, that's right. The answer ismaybe, and it depends --QUESTION: Sometimes yes, sometimes no.MR. AYER: -- and what it depends upon is, hasthere been a basis on which to conclude that that righthas been given up, and the answer is that no such basisarises simply because there's a settlement contract. Wedo not claim that, and neither did any of the courtsbelow. There -- there's nobody here in this courtroom orin this case who says, that's the rule of law. That youcan say it's not the rule of law and everybody will agreewith you, but that's not the issue in the case. QUESTION: Okay, taking your terms, everybody, Iguess, agrees that if the settlement agreement said, weagree, the two parties, that there was no fraud involvedin the creation of the debt which this agreement settles,that that would, in fact, be preclusive, that they couldnot, in fact, prove fraud and -- and nondischargeability. Why is the settlement here like the settlement I justdescribed, because that, as I understand it, is yourargument. There's no legal difference between thesettlement we've got here, which says nothing about fraud, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC and the settlement that I described in which fraud isexpressly addressed. Why are the two alike?MR. AYER: Well, one reason why, and this --this gets back to my point that I think you have to take aState court settlement under State law first to understandit, this -- this settlement, among the other language ofreleases which we've talked about, also includes languagethat commits to filing a voluntary dismissal withprejudice.Now, as I've indicated, in order --QUESTION: Well, isn't -- isn't that what anyneither party settlement does?MR. AYER: Well, it may or may not, Your Honor,but in this case in North Carolina, under North Carolinalaw, under Miller Building and Barnes, when you file a voluntary dismissal with prejudice, it is as though thematter were litigated to a conclusion and the plaintifflost, and --QUESTION: I thought that --QUESTION: So far as --QUESTION: I thought that was true, certainlytrue as far as claim preclusion goes.MR. AYER: Right. It's --QUESTION: It's claim-precluded, but youconstantly mixed up -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. AYER: Well --QUESTION: -- claim preclusion and issuepreclusion --MR. AYER: Well, Your Honor --QUESTION: -- and yes, a voluntary dismissalwith prejudice is preclusive of that claim. You can neverbring that claim again, but it resolves no issues.MR. AYER: Well, Your -- Your Honor, that --that is the law in many places. That is not the law inNorth Carolina, and I simply -- I know this Court doesn'tspend its time deciding State law issues, but --QUESTION: I haven't seen a single NorthCarolina Supreme Court decision that so holds, that avoluntary -- I thought that North Carolina rules, by theway, were based on the Federal rules with respect to the voluntary dismissal rule. Isn't that so?MR. AYER: I -- I think the rules are somewhatsimilar. I've not studied them to know how preciselyparallel they are.QUESTION: And -- and the voluntary dismissal isclaim-preclusive but not issue-preclusive?MR. AYER: Well, let me -- let me just quote,because I -- I've found it -- the language in MillerBuilding and Barnes is that a voluntary dismissal withprejudice, quote, precludes subsequent litigation to the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC same extent as if the action had been prosecuted to afinal adjudication adverse to the plaintiff.QUESTION: All right, Mr. Ayer, let's assumethat that particular reason isn't necessarily going topersuade all of us here. Do you have another reason tosay that the agreement, the settlement here should betreated in law by this Court under the Bankruptcy Codejust like a settlement that expressly says there wasn'tany fraud? Do you have any other reason?MR. AYER: I think the language of the releaseis quite clear. The language of the release talks aboutreleasing any and all rights, including future rights.QUESTION: Well, but it's a question of Federallaw as to whether that includes a nondischargeabilityclaim. I mean, that's what we're here to talk about, and I think that's --MR. AYER: Well, let me --QUESTION: -- that's going to be the same inevery State, which is what I've asked. The very firstquestion we asked, or I asked, was whether or not this wasa rule depends on the -- the vagaries of the law of NorthCarolina or not.MR. AYER: Well -- and let me suggest, YourHonor, that -- that in order --QUESTION: And I would -- I would have to agree th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC with what Justice -- Justice Ginsburg seems to beindicating, that this -- that what you're saying is thatthere's issue preclusion as to an issue that's never beenlitigated.MR. AYER: Well, and the parties --QUESTION: That's astounding.MR. AYER: But I think we know under Arizona v.California and other decisions that parties can do that ifthey in -- if they indicate an intention to do it, and thequestion is, have they done that here.Let me --QUESTION: Can I ask -- this -- this puzzles me. Is it, indeed, a question of Federal law whether acontract which -- which gives up all future rights inconnection with this claim includes -- whether -- whether the contract includes the right to claimnondischargeability?MR. AYER: No, Your Honor.QUESTION: Is -- is that a Federal question or aState question?MR. AYER: I think -- I believe it's not, and Ireally feel --QUESTION: What do you -- you think it's aquestion of State law?MR. AYER: I believe it's a question of State th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC law.QUESTION: It's a question of Federal law whatthe consequence --MR. AYER: Correct.QUESTION: -- of that State contract is.MR. AYER: Absolutely.QUESTION: Okay.MR. AYER: And let me address, if I could, whatI view as the logical way to think about this. Once youhave a State contract that is given meaning under Statelaw, the question is, is that somehow to be modified oroverridden in light of Federal bankruptcy policy, and whatwe have here, on the other side, I think, are twodifferent views.We have one view of the petitioners that it can never be done, there's no way, bankruptcy policy won'tallow it, and the other view of the Government is that,well, you can do it if it's clear enough, and then you getinto nice questions of what, I guess, our Federal commonlaw --QUESTION: Your view, Mr. Ayer, would simplyencourage anticipatory litigation of issues that mightarise in bankruptcy, which I think Brown suggests is not agood idea.MR. AYER: Your Honor, I think all -- all our th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC approach does is allow parties to enter into settlementsto be given what effect they have.QUESTION: Well, but, I -- I think here, too,probably there's general agreement. If in so many wordsyou say in the State court settlement, I waive my right toclaim nondischargeability in bankruptcy, probablyeverybody would say, or a majority would say yes, but youdon't have that here.MR. AYER: Well, what it -- I mean, I guess thenext question would be, what else might be adequate, anddo you really want to develop a -- a body of Federal law. Let me, if I could, just point to the arguments on theother side why this should be treated as essentially aFederal override of State law interpretive principles isbased first upon citation of a number of express provisions of the Bankruptcy Code which have nothing to dowith the subject and, I think, prove the opposite point.There's a whole section on debtor reaffirmationswhich set up detailed procedures that the bankruptcy courtenforces to make sure that debtors don't get takenadvantage of, and they are specific, and they're clear,and the bankruptcy court follows them. That's an occasionfor the bankruptcy court to get involved.There's the idea that the automatic stay cannotbe voluntarily given up. Again, that's the product of th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC specific language that creates an automatic stay toprotect the debtor and has itemized exceptions,specific language. There -- they invoke the preferenceprovisions which let, of course, the bankruptcy court goback into transactions that occur prior to bankruptcy, andlook at them on very specific terms set forth in section. They talk about the fraudulent conveyance sectiondoes the same thing in a slightly different way, but thereare no such provisions whatsoever with regard to waiversof section claims. Section claims are somethingthat the creditor loses if he does not affirmatively filewithin days of the first meeting of creditors. Thereare no protections with regard to that in the code, andif -- if something isn't filed, they disappear.Indeed, the whole idea that creditors are --that -- that the issues with regard to nondischargeabilityunder (a)(), (a)(), (a)(), and (a)(), are made amatter of exclusive Federal jurisdiction, the reason forthat, and your case and Brown talk specifically aboutthat, was because creditors were abusing the process bypursuing them. This is not a protection for creditors. This is a -- a way of making sure creditors don't come inafter bankruptcy and basically put the screws to -- todebtors who have gotten a discharge.What language there is -- and we talk about this th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC in both the briefs, I think specific language runs counterto this. We talked in the briefs about (a)() and(a)(), which specifically mention settlements, and Iwould submit the better interpretation of that language isto say, in those instances where the language specificallysays that any settlement may give rise to anondischargeable claim, is to allow the bankruptcy courtto go back in and look at those facts even if the right toa nondischarge -- right to pursue nondischarge was givenaway.I think the bottom line is that the arguments onthe other side relate to a series -- they don't relate toany language of the code, other than the much overbroadidea that it -- that it's any debt, and of course thatdoesn't mean that a party can't be foreclosed from litigating the claim because he's already lost it inState court, so any doesn't mean absolutely every.The policies that are invoked are, first, thehonest but unfortunate debtor policy, but nobody here,I think, seriously suggests that a party can't give thething away, give the right away if they want to, and soI think -- give the right to pursue the action away byclear enough language. That seems to be the -- thepetitioner I think disagrees with me, but other than that,I think the better view is that they can, and I don't th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC think this Court in any of its cases has ever suggested that the honest but unfortunate debtor policy foreclosesrelying on prior resolutions under State law. Collateralestoppel certainly applies, and we think settlementlanguage that's clear ought to apply.They claim that allowing this is some sort of atrap for the unwary. It would be a trap if the rule werethis categorical rule that says, boy, you enter into asettlement contract, you lose your claim. That's notthe issue in the case. The issue is, does the languagehere support the -- the idea that the -- the right topursue the claim has been given up, and to holdparties to the State law effect of releases that they signis no trap for the unwary. That's how we do litigation inthis country every day.QUESTION: Mr. Ayer, may I ask you thisquestion: You started out telling us you were going tomake four points. I know what one, two, and four are, butI'm just curious as to what three was.MR. AYER: Three was the State law point. I --I guess -- three was the point that when you look at Statelaw here, the reading of -- the fair reading of State lawdoes, indeed, support the State law rulings of all threeof the courts below, and point four, of course, is thatthere's no reason in Federal law to go back and say no, we th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC have to second-guess that.QUESTION: I -- I suppose after this case, nomatter which way it goes, you can have an Archer clausein -- in the settlement agreement. I -- I've never seen asettlement agreement in which the parties agree that it'sgoing to be nondischargeable. As a matter of commoncourse, do these clauses appear in contracts, or --MR. AYER: I'm not aware of it, Your Honor. They certainly can if they want to.QUESTION: I know they can.QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. Ayer.MR. AYER: Thank you, Your Honor.QUESTION: Mr. Goldblatt, you have minutesremaining.REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF CRAIG GOLDBLATT ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERSMR. GOLDBLATT: Okay. Thank you. I only havefour points. First, with respect to the State lawquestion of preclusion, we say in our reply brief on pages and that that issue had been waived. I don't want tobelabor that point, but I -- I will point out that thebrief respondent filed in the court of appeals, whichis -- which is, of course, in the record here, statesState law correctly. There, on page in the court ofappeals respondent said, there is no issue of collateral th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC estoppel in this case because there have never been anyevidentiary findings.We submit that's a correct statement of Statelaw. None of the North Carolina cases cited by respondentinvolved a case in which a settlement agreement is givenpreclusive effect.Second, with respect to the language of thisparticular release, it would certainly present a hardercase if you had a situation which the release said, wegive up all of our rights in bankruptcy, and in the eventyou file for bankruptcy, we will not make any effort tocollect on the debt. This release is quite far from that,and expressly preserves the right at all points to recoveron the amount that was promised in the promissory note,and this Court's opinion in Brown makes clear as a matter of Federal law that what a nondischargeability action isis simply an action to enforce the obligations that werepromised as part of the settlement.Finally, the question of the form of the debt,and whether the form of the debt drove the decision below,there -- the court of appeals certainly does say -- andthis is in the joint appendix at page -- I'm sorry,page a, footnote . It explains quite clearly that abasis for its decision is the notion that the creditor wassubstituting the tort claim, the fraud claim for a th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC contract claim and rests its decision on that basis.The consequence of that decision would be thatfrom the creditor's perspective, if a creditor has anunliquidated claim, and this applies not only to claimsfor fraud but, say, an injury caused by drunk-driving, anyof the categories of nondischargeability, if you have anunliquidated claim and they file for bankruptcy, you cancontend its nondischargeable.If, on the other hand, you've litigated all theway to judgment, under Brown you can say in bankruptcy,even if the judgment doesn't say what it's for, thatthat's nondischargeable. It would create an anomaloussituation in which the middle category, cases that areresolved in settlement agreements that don't resolve thequestion of liability, the rights in bankruptcy to show nondischargeability is given up, and because the codemakes clear that the form of the debt is irrelevant topersons of dischargeability, and because this Court'sdecision in Brown versus Felsen is essentiallyindistinguishable from this case, we submit the decisionbelow should be reversed.QUESTION: It's rather unfortunate,Mr. Goldblatt, that there's nobody in the room to defendthe position that I understood was taken by the questionpresented, namely that a novation -- a novation is all you th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC need. I think that's, at least, an arguable position,but -- but nobody -- nobody seems to want to --MR. GOLDBLATT: We agree that -- that --QUESTION: -- discuss the issue on -- on whichwe took the case.MR. GOLDBLATT: Your Honor, we -- we agree, aswe say in our reply brief, that the principal basis of thedecision below has been abandoned by respondent here, andwe believe it's been abandoned because it can't be squaredwith this Court's decision in Brown versus Felsen, whichholds squarely to the contrary.QUESTION: Thank --QUESTION: What about the (a)() and (a) -- the, the express provisions for nondischargeability?MR. GOLDBLATT: Your Honor, what Congress was doing in -- in sections (a)() -- I -- I see my timehas -- has run out, but what Congress was doing in (a)()and (a)() was giving preclusive effect --CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: Thank you,Mr. Goldblatt. The case is submitted.(Whereupon, at : a.m., the case in theabove-entitled matter was submitted.) th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC 