 IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XCLACKAMAS GASTROENTEROLOGY ASSOCIATION, P.C., Petitioner :::v. : No. -DEBORAH WELLS. :- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XWashington, D.C.Tuesday, February , The above-entitled matter came on for oralargument before the Supreme Court of the United States at: a.m.APPEARANCES:STEVEN W. SEYMOUR, ESQ., Portland, Oregon; on behalf ofthe Petitioner.IRVING L. GORNSTEIN, ESQ., Assistant to the SolicitorGeneral, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; onbehalf of the United States, as amicus curiae,supporting the Petitioner.CRAIG A. CRISPIN, ESQ., Portland, Oregon; on behalf of theRespondent. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC C O N T E N T SORAL ARGUMENT OF STEVEN W. SEYMOUR, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioner ORAL ARGUMENT OFIRVING L. GORNSTEIN, ESQ.PAGEOn behalf of the United States, as amicus curiae,supporting the Petitioner ORAL ARGUMENT OFCRAIG A. CRISPIN, ESQ.On behalf of the Respondent REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OFSTEVEN W. SEYMOUR, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioner th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC P R O C E E D I N G S(: a.m.)CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: We'll hear argumentnext in Number -, Clackamas GastroenterologyAssociation versus Deborah Wells.Mr. Seymour.ORAL ARGUMENT OF STEVEN W. SEYMOURON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERMR. SEYMOUR: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court:The four doctors who are shareholder-directorsof the petitioner are not employees under the ADA, theAmericans With Disabilities Act, because, like partners,they own and manage their own clinic.QUESTION: What -- what is the common law ruleon respondeat superior for an ordinary corporation vis avis a director? Is a director of an ordinary corporationan employee of the corporation?MR. SEYMOUR: In an ordinary corporation, thecommon law rule is that the employee is like a servant. QUESTION: Well, if -- if that's so --QUESTION: Well, what is your answer?QUESTION: I didn't hear you.QUESTION: I couldn't hear the response.MR. SEYMOUR: I'm sorry. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: Your answer was yes, was -- he is anemployee?MR. SEYMOUR: Yes.QUESTION: Okay. Well, then Darden says commonlaw, common law says directors are employees, and theseare directors, end of case. Why not?MR. SEYMOUR: Because Darden doesn't apply here. Darden was --QUESTION: Well, you didn't even cite Darden, Idon't think.MR. SEYMOUR: I believe I did.QUESTION: Did you?MR. SEYMOUR: Yes.QUESTION: I would think Darden would be thefirst place we'd look.MR. SEYMOUR: Well, the difference between thiscase and Darden is significant. Darden was a case inwhich the Court was required to determine whether anindividual was an independent contractor --QUESTION: Yes.MR. SEYMOUR: -- or an employee.QUESTION: Yes.MR. SEYMOUR: That's not a choice here.QUESTION: No, but the decision has to be madeon whether these people are employees. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. SEYMOUR: That's right.QUESTION: And Darden says, well, we're going tolook to the common law, so what makes you think we'd dosomething else in this situation?MR. SEYMOUR: Because there are frankly not muchcommon law that gives us guidance on how to decide whethera director-shareholder in a professional corporation is anemployee or not.The -- in Darden, it cited factors that arereally quite good at determining whether an individual isan independent contractor or an employee. Those factorsdon't work very well here, because they're not designed toaddress the issues that we're looking at.That is, for example, one of the factors thatthe common law looks to to determine whether a -- anindividual is an independent contractor is whether theindividual provides their own tools of the trade. Well,that's not the kind of factor that's going to work verywell in this kind of case. Therefore, we're suggestingthat a Darden-like analysis is very appropriate, but wethink that it's better to use factors such as suggested bythe Government in their brief, that is, the EEOC guidance,because those kinds of factors suggested in the EEOCguidance go the heart of the difference betweenshareholder-directors and employees. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC The factors in Darden do not, so therefore theDarden factors are like trying to pound a round peg into asquare hole. We shouldn't do that, because it becomesclumsy.QUESTION: It may be clumsy --QUESTION: But this was a case where it was veryimportant to the shareholders in this corporation thatthey be labeled employees for ERISA purposes. It had tobe -- if they weren't employees, they weren't going to beable to get themselves covered under the retirement planas the law then was, so in -- in the ERISA context youwould be saying, of course they're employees. That's howthey qualified under ERISA. We set this thing up solelyfor that reason.MR. SEYMOUR: Yes, Your Honor, except that Ithink that the -- the tax purposes were more under thegeneral tax laws, not under ERISA, because they couldestablish an ERISA plan and deduct the expenses.QUESTION: But didn't they -- in order to becovered, didn't they have to be employees?MR. SEYMOUR: Yes.QUESTION: Yes.MR. SEYMOUR: And -- and just --QUESTION: And they wouldn't -- on your theory,they're not -- so they are employees for that purpose? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. SEYMOUR: Well, they're treated as employeesfor that purpose, but they should not be treated asemployees for purposes of the ADA.For example, if we turn the coin over and lookat the other side, and the Court is required to examinewhether someone who is labeled a partner is, in reality,a -- an employee. If the Court finds that, looking at theeconomic realities of that situation, that the partner isreally an employee, that doesn't mean that thenow-employer should issue W-'s, or that they should havebeen withholding. Those are tax issues, and they don'thave the same purposes as the ADA.QUESTION: But the -- am I wrong in thinkingthat the -- the whole thing was set up the way it was,instead of as a partnership, for the reason that thesepeople needed to be characterized as employees forretirement plan purposes?MR. SEYMOUR: Yes.QUESTION: And are they not also employees forWorker's Compensation purposes?MR. SEYMOUR: Under Oregon law, they can opt outof Worker's Compensation.QUESTION: But they'd have to opt out. Theystart out by being in.MR. SEYMOUR: Yes. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: They start out as being -- do theyget salaries?MR. SEYMOUR: They get salaries plus a bonus,which is the division of their profits.QUESTION: But they get salaries. There'snothing inconsistent with being, say, the president of thecompany and principal shareholder and being both an ownerand an employee.MR. SEYMOUR: That's true. There's nothinginconsistent about that, and our concern with this caseis, the court didn't go past the fact that the clinic wasorganized as a professional corporation, and when the --QUESTION: Why should it, because I'm stillstuck with the language of Darden, which reads as ageneral rule, when Congress has used the term, employee,without defining it, we have concluded that Congressintended to describe the conventional master-servantrelationship as understood by common law agency doctrine,and it says, that rule stood as an independent authorityfor the copyright decision. So, too, should it standhere.Now, is your view, it should not stand here inthis case --MR. SEYMOUR: That's our view.QUESTION: -- as sufficient? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. SEYMOUR: That's our view.QUESTION: All right, so you're asking us todepart from Darden and to make an exception from theDarden rule for the -- this particular act.MR. SEYMOUR: For this --QUESTION: Is that right?MR. SEYMOUR: For this particular circumstance,that's correct, Your Honor.QUESTION: Well, when you say circumstance,there's a word in an act, so you're saying that the word,employee, in this title of the ADA does not bear thecommon law definition?MR. SEYMOUR: Well, I think the common lawdefinition is one thing to look at. That is the --QUESTION: No, no, I'm asking -- they said inDarden that's the end of it, and you say -- I want to bejust clear about it. You say, it is not the end of it. Common law is not the end of it.MR. SEYMOUR: Yes, that's what we're saying.QUESTION: All right, and so --MR. SEYMOUR: Common law is not the end of it.QUESTION: Okay. Now I understand.QUESTION: Would -- would you say that the EEOCguidelines and writings and treatises on the differencesbetween professional corporations and other corporations th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC might themselves be part of what we call the common law?I -- I take it part of your position is based onthe proposition that the common law, I suppose of agency,up through the s just didn't have much on this subjectat all, when we're talking about the difference betweenpartners and professional and -- and employees of aprofessional corporation. There just wasn't a corpus ofwriting on that subject.MR. SEYMOUR: No, there isn't much in the commonlaw, because a professional corporation is not a productof the common law, nor is a limited liability partnership,nor a limited liability company, and all three of thoseorganizations are virtually functionally identical oncethey're up and running. They have the same --QUESTION: Well, and as -- as courts begin towrite about these things in the area of subchapter Sstatus, tax status and so forth, there is an emergingdecisional law, at least, that's -- that's evolving, Itake it, and you might say that has some common lawattributes. It might not be common law as we -- as weusually define it.MR. SEYMOUR: Attributes, yes, but not thatfocus on this particular question, and that is whether ashareholder-director in a professional corporation shouldbe considered an employee for purposes of defining who -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: Who -- Darden also says, a couple ofpages after the quote that Justice Breyer -- since thecommon law test contains no shorthand formula or magicphrase that can be applied to find the answer, all of theincidents of the relationship must be assessed and weighedwith no one factor being decisive, which suggests a morefluid test, certainly, than the other language.MR. SEYMOUR: And a more fluid test would becertainly more flexible, because --QUESTION: But that's exactly my point. That'swhy I started out asking you whether you concede that adirector of a corporation is an employee under the commonlaw, because if you concede that, you're saying that thecommon law fluid test ends up with the director being anemployee, and I take it that it's well-established adirector is an employee.MR. SEYMOUR: Well, that's -- I -- I understoodyour question to be --QUESTION: No, my question was to try to get theframework. Either you're saying the common law, you win,or you're saying, common law, I lose, but I win anywaybecause it's not the common law, so if you want to takethe tack, common law test, I still win, explain it to me. How is a director ordinarily an employee, but this oneisn't? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. SEYMOUR: Well, under an ordinarycorporation, I think your -- your question would be yes,but under a professional corporation, it's different.It's much more like a partnership, because if welook at the emergence of these new entities like limitedliability partnerships, limited liability corporations,and professional corporations, they're all emerging forprofessional businesses like this clinic from soleproprietorships or general partnerships, and the only --there's really no difference, functionally, when we lookat those different entities.QUESTION: Oh, but isn't there a hugedifference, that they've got limited liability?If you have -- the corporation is liable if youhave, you're incorporated? Isn't that the true with yourcase, too?MR. SEYMOUR: No, the --QUESTION: Whereas in partnership, theindividuals are liable?MR. SEYMOUR: In the partnership, individualsare liable, but in a professional corporation, in alimited liability partnership, in a limited liabilitycompany, the -- for professionals, those limitedliabilities are all the same, and they're not as good as ageneral corporation, or an ordinary corporation. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC In other words, the doctors in this clinic, in aPC, have liability for their own acts, and limitedvicarious liability for the acts of the other doctors. That's not true inside an ordinary corporation. It istrue inside a limited liability partnership and a limitedliability company.QUESTION: Am I wrong in thinking that the --that the individual liability is not across the board, butit's only for malpractice-type claims?MR. SEYMOUR: That's right, it's formalpractice-type claims, and I think --QUESTION: So --MR. SEYMOUR: -- that's pretty much true notjust in --QUESTION: But other claims against the clinic,it -- they -- they would have limited liability?MR. SEYMOUR: Yes, they do, and that's true forall three of those emerging types of entities,professional corporations, limited liability partnerships,and limited liability companies.QUESTION: Well, maybe there isn't -- thereisn't any settled law, is there, that a limited liabilitypartnership would not be treated the same way that thisentity is -- is treated?MR. SEYMOUR: Well, for example, as a partner in th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC a partnership, limited liability partnership, I haveexactly the same limits on my liability as the doctors inthis clinic, and I am not an employee, I'm a partner, andthe only difference between my status and the status ofthese doctors is the form of the business, and that'sreally just a label.QUESTION: Well, you say you're not an employee,but isn't that the question we have to decide?MR. SEYMOUR: Well, every court that's addressedthe issue of whether partners are employees, includingthis Court --QUESTION: Well, you wouldn't suggest that everypartner -- no partner is ever an employee. You're notsuggesting that, are you? Say you've got a law firmthat's got partners, you're going to say none of themare -- are employees?MR. SEYMOUR: I'm sure there are some who wouldsay that, but I think that what the courts need to do islook at the individual, not just at a label, and lookbeyond the label to find out, as the EEOC standards --QUESTION: Well, we don't have a partnershiphere. We have a professional corporation --MR. SEYMOUR: Yes.QUESTION: -- do we not?MR. SEYMOUR: That's correct. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: That's what we're talking about. We're not talking about partnership.MR. SEYMOUR: But I'm saying that a -- a limitedliability partnership and a professional corporationshould be treated alike for purposes of the EEOC. Excuseme, for purposes of --QUESTION: But then we're away from --MR. SEYMOUR: Pardon me?QUESTION: I thought you had a very good case inyour brief, and then I read Darden, and I realized thereason I was thinking it, I was out of date and thinkingthat Hearst was still good law. That's Frankfurter'sopinion on employee. I thought it was a great opinion,all right, but I can't square that with what the Courtsaid. That was my initial question, and I'm still there,because I haven't really heard you explain why it is thatthe common law test won't pick up your clients.MR. SEYMOUR: And I'm -- if I may, the -- theproblem with Darden is, it's examining a differentrelationship than we have in this case.In the Darden case, the issue was whether anindividual was an independent contractor, and we deal withthose issues all the time. Our clients come and say, Iwant to be an independent contractor, or make my employeesindependent contractors, and we have to go through the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC books and say, no, we can't let you do that because ofDarden, or whatever.We don't see those kinds of circumstances in thelaw. There's no common law --QUESTION: Well, maybe the price that has to bepaid for professionals to set up a professionalcorporation is to be subject to the ADA, and the anti-discrimination law of title VII, and so forth, becausethese people are going to be counted. In this case, itmakes a difference.MR. SEYMOUR: Well --QUESTION: Is that all bad, that they have to besubject to these provisions?MR. SEYMOUR: The reason that it's bad -- yes,it is all bad.QUESTION: Why?MR. SEYMOUR: And the reason is that we shouldtreat similarly situated businesses the same, and thereare a -- a class of partner-like or proprietor-likeindividuals, and there is a class of employee-likeindividuals, and just because -- let's say it starts outas a general partnership. Just because they shift into alimited liability partnership, or a professionalcorporation, or a limited liability company, thatshouldn't change who belongs in which class, and if we th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC look beyond the label of professional corporation, then wecan see what the relationships are and therefore settlethat issue.I'd like to reserve the balance of my time forrebuttal.QUESTION: Very well, Mr. Seymour.Mr. Gornstein, we'll hear from you.ORAL ARGUMENT OF IRVING L. GORNSTEINFOR THE UNITED STATES, AS AMICUS CURIAE,SUPPORTING THE PETITIONERMR. GORNSTEIN: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it --may it please the Court:Under the EEOC's guidance, the question whethershareholder-directors are employees depends on whetherthey operate independently and manage the business or,instead, are subject to the organization's control. Thatstandard aligns the test for determining the employmentstatus of shareholder-directors with the test that courtshave long used in deciding whether partners are employees.QUESTION: Well, do you say that the EEOC hasadopted standards that differ from the common law, and hasby regulation or otherwise determined that we should applyits test to this question?MR. GORNSTEIN: I guess largely, yes. The EEOCstarted with the common, common law right to control test th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC that is used to distinguish between independentcontractors and employees and adapted it to make adistinction between those who were the proprietors of thebusiness and that business' employees, and it did so in away to align its standards for looking at the question ofshareholder-director with the same standards that havebeen used by all the courts in deciding whether partnersor -- are employeesQUESTION: And do you agree with thepetitioner's attorney that if you look to the common lawtest, these people would be employees?MR. GORNSTEIN: If you look to the Restatementas the measure of the common law --QUESTION: Yes.MR. GORNSTEIN: -- then generally speaking, a --a director who didn't employ service -- perform serviceswould not have been an employee, but a director whoperformed services would be.Now, the only hesitation I would have is to saythat the -- that at the time of the Restatement therewasn't -- there weren't professional corporations thatmixed and matched features of partnership andcorporations, so there's not as clear an answer on that.QUESTION: Do we owe deference to the EEOCstandard? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. GORNSTEIN: The -- the Court should giveweight to the -- the EEOC's test because it reflects itsaccumulated and longstanding experience in administeringthe act, but we're not asking for Chevron deference here.QUESTION: Didn't the Court say the EEOC doesn'tget such deference? I mean, didn't -- wasn't that wayback in the Gilbert case?MR. GORNSTEIN: It -- it did say that, thatit -- it doesn't get Chevron deference. Now, there is anexception now. Under the ADA, the EEOC can issueregulations, and this Court has held that thoseregulations are entitled to Chevron deference, but this isguidance that applies across the board to all thenondiscrimination laws, and what the Court has said inthat context is that the EEOC's analysis gets weight, inlight of the fact that it has accumulated experience underthe law.deference.QUESTION: But it would be kind of a SkidmoreMR. GORNSTEIN: It would be a Skidmoredeference, that's correct. Now, what --QUESTION: I hate to be a bore on this, but willyou please write the two sentences for me where I have tosay either that, we apply the common law test, and in thisinstance, the common law test comes out in your favor, or th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC we have to say, we don't apply the common law test becausethe EE -- this statute is different. Which of those twopaths, both of which could lead to your victory or yourdefeat, do you think we should take?MR. GORNSTEIN: Neither of those two, JusticeBreyer.QUESTION: Neither, all right. Then write thatsection of the opinion.MR. GORNSTEIN: I -- let me get to Darden,because I think that's the focus of your questions.As we read Darden, there is language that iscertainly broad enough in it to say that any time you usethe word, employee, you mean common law employee, but Ithink that those, what -- you have to understand Darden inthe context of the -- the issue it was resolving in thatcase, and there it was trying to draw a distinction,whether the term employee embraces independentcontractors, and in that setting, Congress had twiceamended statutes to make clear that the term, employee,did not mean independent contractor after this Court hassaid that it could, and in that context, it makes perfectsense to start out with a very strong presumption thatwhen Congress uses the term, employee, it does not meanindependent contractor.But that's not the situation we have here, and th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC in other cases where the Court has looked at statutes thatuse common law terms, like Title VII does with respect tothe term, agent, it has felt a lot more freedom to adjustthat common law term to the purposes of the statute, and Iwould point you to the Faragher case and the Kolstadt caseas two examples of that, and that's what the EEOC has donehere.It has adapted that common law principle inlight of the fact that we have an established tradition inthe courts, well-established, of looking at the questionof partnership in a functional way, does this personactually operate as a proprietor of the business, or isthis a partner in name only, and it makes perfect sensefor the EEOC to apply that same kind of functionalanalysis in deciding whether shareholder-directors areemployees, because for purposes of deciding who should getthe protection of the act, and that's what we're talkingabout primarily here, there is no practical differencebetween shareholder-directors who run a business andpartners who run a business, and so it makes sense to --to use the same test.Applying the same test also makes sense in lightof the purposes of the small business exemption, becausethe purpose of that exemption is to spare small businessesthe very substantial burdens of complying with the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC nondiscrimination laws, and those burdens are experiencedin exactly the same way regardless of whether those whochoose to organize a small business do so through apartnership form or a corporate form, and the -- theanalysis that the tests should be the same across theboard also makes --QUESTION: May I ask you a question about theapplication of your test? You -- you urge us to remandthe case, as I understand it --MR. GORNSTEIN: Yes, we do.QUESTION: -- to answer the question whetherthese individuals operate independently and manage andcontrol the business on the one hand, or are subject tothe organization's control on the other, and I ask you, isit not possible that the same individual could meet bothhalves of that test?MR. GORNSTEIN: No.QUESTION: Some of his duties, he'd be manager,and some others he'd have to respond to what the grouptold him to do?MR. GORNSTEIN: Well, it -- it's possible that'strue, but what the EEOC's guidance --QUESTION: What do you do if you find such acase?MR. GORNSTEIN: You make -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: With respect to surgery, he takesorders from the directors. With respect to advisingpatients, he's on -- on his own.MR. GORNSTEIN: What -- what we have here underthe EEOC's guidance is, ultimately you make an overalljudgment that's either-or, based on all the considerationsin the guidance, and they are at page of our brief, sothat, just as in the partnership context, you look at allof these factors, and just as you would in an independentcontractor status kind of situation, you look at all therelevant factors, and then you make an overall judgmentabout, essentially does this person function as aproprietor of the business, or is he functioning as anemployee of the business overall.QUESTION: Why isn't it simpler just to say,well, they picked a corporate form with their eyes openbecause it was important for them to be labeled employees,at least for retirement purposes, so they have to take thebitter with the sweet. They got that qualification sothey could have their retirement plans, and then it's justmuch simpler to say, that's the form that they chose, andthe law for many -- in many contexts does follow what --the form parties choose for their arrangement. Whyshouldn't that be the answer?MR. GORNSTEIN: The -- the approach that the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC EEOC has taken is to -- is a functional approach thattries to treat all people alike, and to look to the realfunctional relationship between the individual and theemployee, and the fact that somebody may have chosen to dosomething for tax consequences, or chose to do somethingfor purposes of limiting individual liability, reallydoesn't have anything to do with whether he is the sort ofperson who should receive protection under thenondiscrimination laws, and this is ultimately what we aredetermining here, are these shareholder-directors peoplewho are employees and therefore receive protection underthe nondiscrimination laws, because it's only those peoplewho are the --QUESTION: Well, I thought we were looking tosee if some other, lower employee was covered, not thesedirectors, and that turns on whether you count them asemployees --MR. GORNSTEIN: That's --QUESTION: -- or not.MR. GORNSTEIN: That's correct.QUESTION: We're not looking to see if theythemselves are covered under the ADA in this case.MR. GORNSTEIN: But in order to answer thequestion you have in front of you, which is, is this asmall business and does this employee get protection, you th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC first have to answer the question of, are theseshareholder-directors employees who get protection underthe law, so that is the inevitable product of having todecide the small business exemption, is that you have todecide, these are people who get protection under thelaws, and it -- it's just not the case that the policiesthat underlie decisions about incorporation having to dowith tax consequences and individual liability haveanything to do with whether these are the kind of peoplewho should receive protection under the nondiscriminationlaws.QUESTION: Well, I just thought Congress wasmore concerned with not making really small businessescovered by these acts, that we weren't focused on whetherthese professional shareholders should be covered, butwhether this was the kind of small business that shouldn'tbe covered at all.MR. GORNSTEIN: Well -- I'm sorry, JusticeO'Connor.QUESTION: Is that right?MR. GORNSTEIN: I -- what Congress did in thesmall business exemption is to link the exemption to thenumber of people who receive protection under the laws,and that makes sense, because it means that at most, whenthe small business exemption applies, at most, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC individuals will be excluded who otherwise would have hadprotection.QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. Gornstein.Mr. Crispin, we'll hear from you.ORAL ARGUMENT OF CRAIG A. CRISPINON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTMR. CRISPIN: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court:The position of the clinic and the Government inthis case essentially is to look to ignore the form andstructure of the corporate business, yet just years ago,in Cedric Kushner versus King, this Court held that a soleshareholder was separate and distinct from the corporatestructure itself, and that's the -- the essence of thequestion.QUESTION: What kind of a legal issue was itthere, Mr. Crispin? What act were we construing?MR. CRISPIN: That was a RICO question, and thequestion was whether or not the two parts of the -- theRICO enterprise on the one hand and the -- the otheraspect of the RICO question existed with both theindividual sole shareholder and director of thecorporation as being separate and distinct from thecorporation itself, and in that case the Court said, youcannot collapse the two. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC The defense position was, they are, in fact, thesame identity, and this Court said no, that's not true. What -- the corporate structure is something separate anddistinct, which is recognized by this Court, has beenrecognized for years and years and years, and that that issomething that cannot and should not be ignored.QUESTION: Well, the -- the reason we said itwas that we couldn't find any basis in the statutoryhistory or the text that -- that gave us a clue thatCongress, in effect, wanted to ignore something which issuch hornbook law.The argument on the other side, I think, is thatthere is a reason to think Congress would want to lookat -- at nontraditional concepts here. The argument isthat the common law definition of employee does notaxiomatically apply because it's not addressing the issuethat Congress was addressing in that -- in this statute. The issue that Congress was addressing in this statute, asI understand the argument, in fact taking the -- the verywords that Mr. Gornstein used a moment ago, was the issueof protecting people who can be hurt by discrimination. It was a protection issue.So that I think what he's saying, and -- andwhat the petitioner's counsel are saying is, the one thingthat we do know about employees is that they were people th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC who were intended to be protected by this statute. Ifthat is true, it is not probable that they were trying toinclude as employees, the protected category, people whodon't need protection because they are in ultimate controlof the business, the ones who, if there's going to bediscrimination, are going to be doing the discriminating,so it's probable that the people who have that ultimatecontrol would intend it to be within the employeecategory. That's an issue that the common law didn'taddress.How do you respond to that argument?MR. CRISPIN: Justice Souter, the individualsthat are subject to discrimination in this particular caseare not only the lower-level employees as this casepresents. We have four shareholder-directors, and any oneof those could come down with a disability and have theremaining three shareholders refuse to accommodate orotherwise violate the ADA with respect to that oneindividual, so the -- the individual --QUESTION: So you're saying, even on the premiseof their argument, it does not exclude any one of thefour.MR. CRISPIN: That's correct.QUESTION: I suppose if one of the four had a percent, a truly indefeasibly controlling interest, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC you'd concede that, but short of that, which apparently isnot the case here, you say, even if I take their premises,they lose.MR. CRISPIN: That's right, Your Honor, I --although I -- let me comment that I'm not sure I wouldconcede the percent, all -- I would concede it for yourhypothetical.QUESTION: Yes, right.MR. CRISPIN: But our position is that theemploying enterprise is the determining factor.QUESTION: How -- how does the EEOC treat anordinary corporation that, let's say, has regularemployees and then three directors, the cousin, thefather, the son, or whatever, of the owner, so there -- soit's as -- if you count the three -- and it's a perfectlyordinary corporation. There's nothing special about it. Do they count those three directors, or not, as employees?MR. CRISPIN: As I read their position, I -- Ibelieve that they, under the new guidance, would countthose directors under their balancing test. They wouldapply the -- this multiple-factor balancing test, look atthe degree of control, and decide on a case-by-case basis.QUESTION: So remember, these three are justcousins. They're not -- I mean, they only show up once ayear, and they vote, and -- and that's it. That's their th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC connection.MR. CRISPIN: Well, in that case, Your Honor --QUESTION: Do they count them or not?MR. CRISPIN: In that case, Your Honor, theywould not be counted.QUESTION: They don't count?MR. CRISPIN: They don't count, because they'renot performing services --QUESTION: All right. Then -- and those arepeople who the common law really would consider to beemployees, at least while they're there for that hour ayear, is that right?MR. CRISPIN: I'm not sure what the answer wouldbe. We know that -- that employee is considered a personwho performs services for the corporation --QUESTION: Well, they're there once a year foran hour, and during that time they spill some water,somebody slips -- I mean, a corporation, I guess, would beliable, or -- or not?MR. CRISPIN: On their acts, if they areperforming services --QUESTION: Yes.MR. CRISPIN: -- for the corporation forcompensation they would at -- for that hour --QUESTION: Yes, for that hour. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. CRISPIN: -- be considered employees.QUESTION: Right.MR. CRISPIN: Now, of course, under the ADAwe're looking at numbers of employees over weeks withina calendar year.QUESTION: Yeah, yeah, yeah, right.MR. CRISPIN: But again, the idea, as this Courtrecognized in Walters versus Metro Educational, was thatthe determinations under the employment discriminationstatutes should be subject to ready and easydetermination. Complex and expensive factual inquiriesshould be avoided, but yet the Government's test and theclinic's test, which has adopted the Government's test,would have this Court look at the facts in each individualcase every time --QUESTION: Well, don't we have to give someweight to the EEOC view? Do you just want to ignore itcompletely?MR. CRISPIN: No, Your Honor. The Skidmoredeference is appropriate, Justice O'Connor.QUESTION: Why? Why, because I would think thenyou lose. I mean, here -- if I'm very frank about it,there are two competing things here, and the one thing,give weight to the agency, let them define these terms,particularly at the margin, but that's Hearst, and -- and th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC the other is, no, no, it doesn't matter what they say, payno attention whatsoever to what they say. What they haveto do is follow the common law definition. That's Darden.So if Darden applies, I take it you win, but ifDarden doesn't apply, it seems to be much harder for youto win, because then the agency should get deference underSkidmore, at least, in applying the term, and the agencyhere has a different definition than the one that helpsyou.about it.So that's where I am, and I'm quite uncertainMR. CRISPIN: Your Honor, two -- two responsesto your question. Under Darden, it -- it does -- theCourt has decided that the common law applies, and wewould say that's appropriate. The precise test underDarden dealt with the independent contractor versusemployee test. That is not absolutely translatable here,but the key concept is that the common law applies isappropriate.The second aspect of your question, Your Honor,was on the deference entitled to the EEOC opinion, and asI understand Skidmore deference, it's only that deferencewhich is appropriate under the circumstances of theirtest. In this case, the EEOC's test is not workable. Itleads to inconsistent results, and it fails to further th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC the -- the interests that are looked at under the statute,and I can turn to those points.QUESTION: Doesn't it, perhaps better than the,just straight common law, of course, deal with the comingof -- of age, so to speak, of the professionalcorporation, which really didn't -- didn't amount to much,if -- if it even existed or years ago?MR. CRISPIN: Mr. Chief Justice, it may addressit, but it need not. It need not treat a corporation,whether it's a professional corporation or a generalcorporation, differently --QUESTION: No, it need not, but it has chosen todo so, and the -- the question, I guess, before us is,under Skidmore deference, is that a reasonable decision?MR. CRISPIN: It's not a reasonable decision inlooking at the professional corporation as the EEOC's testwould apply to it, and -- and the reasons are that, as --as the EEOC and the clinic has suggested, an importantissue is one of consistency, yet applying their test doesnot lead to consistent results.One can imagine the -- the circumstance of aprofessional corporation with one shareholder-director and employees. Under their test, that individualcorporation would not be covered. It has fewer than .Take the situation, though, where there are , th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC director-shareholders of the professional corporationand employees, a business nearly twice the size of thefirst one, and yet that one would be covered because ofthe employees.QUESTION: Are you -- are you basing yourestimate of what the EEOC would cover on the materials setforth in the Government's brief at page ?MR. CRISPIN: Well, as I -- as I read the test,what the EEOC would do in that circumstance would look atthe number of employees, and the employees, whetherthere was or shareholders would make no difference,and -- and yet with or , or or shareholders,whether or not they were considered employees or not, the individual employees would be enough to providecoverage, yet take the same circumstance and back off theone with the number of employees, and under the EEOC'stest, it would be a factual shareholder-by-shareholderdetermination which would be required to determine whetherthis company -- corporation is, in fact, covered or not.And so we have the situations where many moreentities, enterprises with a lot of people working forthem, which may not be covered on the one hand, and downthe street a very similar corporation --QUESTION: But if they have many people workingfor them, they won't be subject to the small business th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC exception.MR. CRISPIN: That -- that's right, unless theyhave less than employees, but yet in a professionalcorporation as we have here, the individual shareholdersare performing services for the corporation. In fact,that's the business of the corporation, is to provide themedical services that these four shareholders wereperforming. They created revenue which came into thecorporation, they got the benefits of the corporatestructure for tax benefits and for ERISA purposes, and yetthey -- and yet the EEOC would -- would put a factualdetermination on whether or not one or more of theindividuals were, in fact, employees.The interest of predictability would be lost insuch a situation. Predictability is important for boththe enterprise itself to know whether it's covered, andalso for the individual employee, the secretary or thenurse down the hall. In a -- a test that says, we adoptthe corporate structure as the appropriate test, thoseindividuals, the enterprise, the nurse, the secretary, allthey have to do is look at their paycheck to see if it's acorporation, and count up the number of people working forthat corporation, performing services --QUESTION: Well, what -- why would they be doingthis? I mean, are you suggesting that the secretaries th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC won't work for the corporation unless they know it'scovered under this statute?MR. CRISPIN: I -- I think that's a possibility,yes.QUESTION: No, I mean, is it a realisticpossibility? I mean, are people making employmentdecisions depending on whether they -- they're going to beable to sue if there is discrimination likely?MR. CRISPIN: In -- in my practice, which isexclusively dealing with employment matters, yes, we seethat, individuals who are quite concerned. Also, I amaware of, although I cannot cite you to studies whichindicate that fear of retaliation for bringing a claim isa real factor on individuals. If they know they're notprotected, they don't bring the claim. Now, that's --QUESTION: But if there are no -- if they're notprotected, they have no claim to make.MR. CRISPIN: That's true. If they -- if theyknow they're not protected, then they -- they don't riskthe kind of retaliation for raising the claim, and they goon and just do their jobs.QUESTION: So I'm quite -- still -- I hate to go back to this, but it seems to me there might be millionsof small businesses in the country that have about or employees where if you count their directors, they are th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC going to be covered, and if you don't count them, theywon't be, and I'm curious about the practical effect ofthat. Of course, if the EEOC counts them now, there's noproblem. If it doesn't count them now, this decisionwould -- would affect that. Do you have any sense of whatthe facts are?MR. CRISPIN: I think the numbers aresignificant, that there are quite a number of -- of smallbusinesses in that category, professional corporations,but whether that's a factor that should enter into theCourt is, of course, your decision, not mine, but ifCongress -- but the -- the touchstone of that question,then, would be, though, the intent of -- of Congress,whether Congress intended the term, employee, to have acommon law application and, if that's the case, then theyshould be, in fact, covered. That's what Congress wantedto do.QUESTION: How do you respond to the famous twoclinic examples, one is set up as a partnership and one isa professional corporation?MR. CRISPIN: Well, Your Honor, Number -- I'vegot two responses to that. Number , it -- it's oneexample of a way that it would provide inconsistentresults, but I just talked about a different one which isvery different, which provides inconsistent results by th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC their test.Second, this Court has never held that apartnership is not subject to Title VII or ADA becauseit's a partnership. Some of the lower courts have donethat, and Justice Powell in his concurring opinion in theHishon case did, in fact, address that, but this Court hasnever so held. That's not a question that this Court needaddress in this opinion, but it is something that theCourt may want to look at in terms of, under the -- forexample, under the Restatement Second of Agency in ,the partnership was recognized as being able to haveemployees as members of its partners who were performingservices for that partnership, so --QUESTION: Are you making a distinction betweenowner-directors who are also working every day providingthe services of the entity, and owner-directors who arenot involved in the day-to-day service delivery functionof the enterprise?MR. CRISPIN: Justice Ginsburg, I -- Ibelieve -- I believe your question addresses whether thosedirectors who are not involved day-to-day --QUESTION: Right.MR. CRISPIN: -- would be covered as employees,but the common law test, as I understand it, is thatthere's a question of compensation. If the services are th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC being provided, and there's compensation for thoseservices, then the individual would be counted as anemployee and, as we indicated earlier, the question underthe ADA deals with five work days in different weeks,so the -- the director who comes in just on occasionalbasis, even if compensated, would not be enough to -- to,typically to add another employee.QUESTION: Well, if you say the director gets afee, and the meetings are not frequent but the director isexpected to remain au courant with what's going on in thebusiness, so how do we judge that? We can't say, onlythe -- for the hour of the meeting that director counts.MR. CRISPIN: Your Honor, the -- the decision ofthis Court in, in the A -- in determining what employeescount for ADA purposes was, the -- the decision was thepayroll method, and looked to the payroll, whether anindividual is on the payroll for days of the week for weeks in the preceding or current calendar year, so thedirector, if that director is performing services adequateto put him or her on the payroll for the entire week,would be counted as an employee for that particular week.I -- I would suggest that that would be a rareoccasion where a director who had no other role in thecompany but to come in and sit in on a meeting or keep upwith things would appear on the payroll, but if they were, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC then they should be counted as employees, because they areperforming services, receiving compensation, and then itjust simply moves into the -- the method of counting thoseemployees.QUESTION: In any event, the director, theowner-directors, shareholder-directors that we have hereare working for the corporation every day, and they are onsalary?MR. CRISPIN: They are on salary. They workevery day. The compensation or revenue they produce goesinto the corporation. They enjoy the corporate shieldfrom liability for all but that small category of exposureto malpractice cases --QUESTION: Why is that small, when you'retalking about a professional medical corporation? Itseems to me that that would be the biggest liability, notthe small --MR. CRISPIN: It very well may be the largestmonetary, but one could -- could list a number of things,such as liability on the leasehold, liability for employeeclaims, liability for employment contracts, liability fortax payments, that would be the liability of thecorporation, and for which the individual shareholder-directors would not have --QUESTION: But with -- with malpractice, don't th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC you have a much greater likelihood of punitive damages andthings like that, that you don't have arising just out ofa contract claim?MR. CRISPIN: Exactly, Mr. Chief Justice,that -- that is correct, and so, from the -- the monetarystandpoint, as I said, that would be the greatest problem,but the -- the idea of limited liability exists in thiscorporation, as it does, in fact, in the limited liabilitypartnerships and limited liability companies, and if thetouchstone is whether there are corporate limitedliability features, then it doesn't make any differencewhatsoever whether we're dealing with a limited liabilitypartnership, limited liability corporation, a professionalcorporation, or a general corporation, individuals wouldbe employees if they met the requirements otherwise.If there are no other questions, I'll conclude.QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. Crispin.Mr. Seymour, you have minutes remaining.REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF STEVEN W. SEYMOURON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERMR. SEYMOUR: Thank you.The protected class, people in the protectedclass should be the same as are counted toward the-employee threshold. That is, we should look at theindividuals in the business enterprise the same, whether th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC we are determining whether they are eligible to file alawsuit, or are protected by the act, or are countedtowards the act's coverage.Must these doctors take the bitter with thesweet? What we're saying is that what these doctorsdeserve is to be treated the same as their colleagues inbusinesses that are identical, but have a different form. That is, these doctors in the professional corporationshould be treated the same as doctors in a limitedliability partnership or a limited liability company.Would it be simpler to simply look at the formof the business and stop there? It would, but it wouldalso be simpler if we looked at the term, partner andsaid, well, partners can never be employees, or we look atthe term, independent contractor, and say well,independent contractors can never be employees, but wedon't do that for good reasons. We look beyond the label,and I'm suggesting that that is appropriate here as well. Look beyond the label and see what the realities are, areality check.Does the EEOC count directors as employees? Generally, in -- in business law there's a big differencebetween a director, an officer, a shareholder, and anemployee, so as I read the EEOC guidance, that is avehicle through which businesses, courts, and the EEOC can th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC look at an individual and determine, well, is the -- isthe label, director, in this circumstance appropriate, orare they really functioning as an employee?You can, of course, have inside directors, thatis, employees who are appointed to the board of directors,or you can have outside directors in some circumstanceswhere they aren't affiliated except in an advisory role,as a member of the board, and they -- members of the boardof directors could be paid or they could be not paid, andI don't think that's an issue that should necessarily bedeterminative on deciding whether or not they are anemployee.The court of appeals here did not look beyondthe fact that the shareholder-directors had organized as aprofessional corporation, but the trial court did, andlooked at factors similar to those identified in the EEOCguidance, and concluded that these shareholder-directorswere not employees. We believe that is the correctapproach the Court should take.Thank you.CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: Thank you,Mr. Seymour. The case is submitted.(Whereupon, at : a.m., the case in theabove-entitled matter was submitted.) th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC 