 IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XDAVID MEYER, INDIVIDUALLY AND IN HIS CAPACITY AS PRESIDENT AND DESIGNATED OFFICER/BROKER OF TRIAD, INC., ETC., Petitioner ::::::v. : No. -EMMA MARY ELLEN HOLLEY, ET VIR, ET AL. ::- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XWashington, D.C.Tuesday, December , The above-entitled matter came on for oral argument before the Supreme Court of the United States at: a.m.APPEARANCES:DOUGLAS G. BENEDON, ESQ., Woodland Hills, California; onbehalf of the Petitioner.ROBERT G. SCHWEMM, ESQ., Lexington, Kentucky; on behalfof the Respondents.MALCOLM L. STEWART, ESQ., Assistant to the SolicitorGeneral, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; onbehalf of the United States, as amicus curiae, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC supporting the Respondents. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC C O N T E N T SORAL ARGUMENT OF DOUGLAS G. BENEDON, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioner ROBERT G. SCHWEMM, ESQ.On behalf of the Respondents MALCOLM L. STEWART, ESQ.On behalf of the United States, PAGEas amicus curiae, supporting the Respondents REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OFDOUGLAS G. BENEDON, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioner th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC P R O C E E D I N G SJUSTICE STEVENS: We will now hear argument in(: a.m.)Number -, Meyer against Holley.Mr. Benedon.ORAL ARGUMENT OF DOUGLAS G. BENEDONON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERMR. BENEDON: Justice Stevens, and may it pleasethe Court:The question -- excuse me. The questionpresented should be answered with the following brightline rule: Imposition of vicarious liability under theFHA should be determined by application of establishedrules of corporate and agency law not criteria unique tothe FHA. Under these principles, corporate shareholders and officers are not vicariously liable for the torts ofthe other agents of the corporation.The Ninth Circuit held that a different ruleshould apply under the FHA, that vicarious liability couldbe based on control alone. That is not, nor should it be,the law. While the starting -- the starting point for theanalysis is necessarily the statute itself, while Congresshas authority to expand the class of persons liable forviolation of a Federal law, when it has done so, it has th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC done so expressly. The FHA was never -- which neitherdefines nor expands the class of persons liable under theact, and as this Court stated in Bestfoods, this silenceis dispositive.Specifically, Congress has spoken directly whenit has wished to impose a control test. For example --QUESTION: Suppose -- suppose that I were toagree with you and the Court were to agree with you as toyour criticism of the Ninth Circuit's reasoning and -- andthat it agreed with you too that general principles ofagency and corporate liability apply. Based on thisrecord, could we go on to say that under California lawand real estate law generally, the real estate salesman isthe agent of the broker, and therefore the broker isliable under agency law?MR. BENEDON: The answer --QUESTION: Or -- or would I have to -- would wehave to remand before we did that? Because this isdiscussed in the -- in the respondents' brief, and therespondent makes it quite clear. And maybe you disagree,but the -- the law is cited on page of the red brief,that under California law, the broker is the principal. And I take it the principal would be liable underrespondeat superior in this case. MR. BENEDON: Correct, Your Honor. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: If -- if we find who the principalis, we know the principal is going to be liable.MR. BENEDON: That's where --QUESTION: Under California law the broker isthe principal.MR. BENEDON: My -- Your Honor, my answer tothat is -- is several-fold.First, the distinction needs to be made betweena corporate broker and an individual broker. Mr. Meyer inthis case is a corporate officer who holds a broker'slicense solely as the officer of the corporation. Thecorporation is the employer of the agent. The agentoperates under the license held by the corporation.QUESTION: But isn't it fair to say that -- orisn't it? Maybe you'll take issue with this, that the corporation operates as a broker only because it has theindividual's broker license assigned to it.MR. BENEDON: It has to, Your Honor. A corporation as a paper person needs human beings tofulfill the function that a corporation must do, as doesany corporation. There will always be supervisingofficers --QUESTION: Is -- is there any California lawsaying that -- that the corporation is the principal in asituation like this and not the holder of the -- not th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC the -- not the named broker?MR. BENEDON: The named broker, again -- toanswer your question, no, not that I'm aware of.QUESTION: This -- this is a --QUESTION: Let me ask the opposite. Is thereany California case in which the named broker in thecorporation has been held liable as the principal solelybecause he's the named broker?MR. BENEDON: Not the designated officer, YourHonor. The corporation has been held liable.QUESTION: Yes. That's what I'm talking about.MR. BENEDON: But not the designatedofficer/broker.QUESTION: So --QUESTION: Is there a difference in the licenses, the individual license that Justice Kennedy wasreferring to and that's mentioned on page of the redbrief, the individual broker license and the statementthat the individual broker licensee is vicariouslyliable and the broker who holds the license under thecorporate name? Are those different certificates?MR. BENEDON: Absolutely, Your Honor. There areseparate licenses issued by the Department of Real Estatein California: one to individuals who act as brokers, andone to individuals who are brokers only in their capacity th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC as officers of a corporation. Those are separatelicenses.The only license in this cases was held byMr. Meyer as an officer of the corporation. He could notstep outside the corporation and act as a broker. Hisexistence as a broker depended on the corporation. Hecould not transact --QUESTION: May I ask you this question? Youexplained to Justice Scalia that there is no Californiacase holding a corporate broker liable in this situation,as I understand. Are there any California cases going theother way? Has it ever -- has the issue ever beenpresented to the California courts?MR. BENEDON: Yes, it has, Your Honor. In twocases, there have been, one -- one State case and one district court case cited in our -- in our briefs, inthe -- re Grabau case. They've held that the Californiastatutory scheme imposes only a disciplinary remedy forany violations of the scheme such that a broker -- adesignated officer/broker who violates any of theprovisions of the statute may be subject to discipline,but is not the basis of a civil action. QUESTION: So in this case the individual couldbe subject to discipline, but not to liability. Isthat -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. BENEDON: Correct. QUESTION: Yes. QUESTION: What were your other reasons. Yousaid you -- you had a multi-faceted answer, or somethinglike that. What -- what are the other --MR. BENEDON: The --QUESTION: -- prongs or the other facets of youranswer? MR. BENEDON: The other facets is that liabilityunder the FHA cannot be premised on California agency law. There, the -- the agency under the FHA is determined onFederal rules of agency. To determine Federal agency,this Court held in General Contractors, you look to theRestatement which has a two-prong test. One is the rightof control, but the other is that the person controlled has to be acting on behalf of the principal.Here, the agent works -- is working on behalf ofthe corporation. In this case when Mr. Crank went out anddid real estate transactions, he was acting on behalf ofTriad. He was not acting on behalf of Meyer.The problem with looking at each State'sstructure is we're going to end up with a patchworkconstruction of a Federal statute. The law may bedifferent in Nevada than from Oregon than from Washingtonthan from West Virginia. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: Is that --QUESTION: Suppose it were the majority rulethat a real estate broker is the principal for thesalesman. Would we follow that rule generally? MR. BENEDON: Again, Your Honor, the --QUESTION: And again, I'm -- I'm referring tothe red brief at pages and which sets this -- thisout. You say there's a distinction because there's acorporate broker and -- and an individual broker.MR. BENEDON: Correct. QUESTION: Now, we -- I -- we can explore that alittle bit. But suppose it were the -- the general rulein most of the States that had addressed the subject thatthe broker is the principal.MR. BENEDON: To answer that question, I think you still need to make a distinction between individualbrokers and corporate licensed brokers. We do not disputethat --QUESTION: Well, I -- I was simply addressingthe point of whether or not State law as opposed toFederal law controls. And if it's the general law in mostStates that the broker is the principal, then that wouldcertainly be sufficient for the imposition of liabilityunder this Federal scheme. Would it not? MR. BENEDON: Again, I -- I disagree, Your th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Honor. I would say that the rules still -- you need tostill look at the Federal law of agency rather than howthe State defines the relationship between the broker andthe agent. You -- again, you look to the Federal rules ofagency to determine agency under the FHA. QUESTION: I thought you said those were generalcommon law principles that are -- presumably the Stateswould share.MR. BENEDON: The general law principles appliedin the broker/agent context would establish that theagent -- the sales agent -- is the agent of the principalbroker when the broker is acting in his individualcapacity when the agent is acting on behalf of theprincipal, of the individual broker, and subject to thatbroker's control. The situation is different when it's a officer/broker who is not -- the agent in that situationis not acting on behalf of the officer. He's acting onbehalf of the corporation.QUESTION: Then if I understand your argumentcorrectly, you're saying that the discussion, whether it'sCalifornia law or Federal common law, is in this case atleast academic because under California law, if you wereto apply it, there is no relief for these plaintiffs, thatthe only remedy where it's -- the license is held in thecorporate name is a disciplinary sanction? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. BENEDON: To date, that is how Californiahas treated violations of the California statutory scheme. Correct, Your Honor. QUESTION: Only -- only by these corporatebrokers or -- or by -- by individual brokers?MR. BENEDON: Excuse me, Your Honor. Individualbrokers as well.QUESTION: Okay. MR. BENEDON: It's a statutory scheme thatapplies to brokers in general and salespersons in generalwho -- who allegedly violate the act.QUESTION: But I thought you said that if -- ifthis were a license to an individual broker, if this wereheld -- the license were held by Meyer as an individual --that he would then have a principal agent relationship with Crank. Is that not so?MR. BENEDON: That is correct, Your Honor, ifit's an individual broker's license. I think I may have caused some confusion. Undergeneral principles of agency law, common law principles ofagency law, the sales agent is in an agent principalrelationship with an individual broker. If there is aviolation of the act by the broker under California law,then he would be subject to disciplinary action. That isseparate and apart from vicarious liability under the FHA, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC which would adhere based on the principal agentrelationship. QUESTION: Is there an issue in this case aboutpiercing the corporate veil as a means of holding Meyerliable?MR. BENEDON: Not in this case, Your Honor. Wehold that the theory and doctrine of corporate veil-piercing is -- is available in the appropriate case as itwould be under any case under the general common law,although here it's been -- it wasn't raised and it's beenwaived, and it's never been proven.QUESTION: But they came --QUESTION: Was there some reference toveil-piercing in the respondents' brief in the NinthCircuit? MR. BENEDON: On the last page of argument in afootnote, Your Honor, there's a reference arguing thatbased on sole ownership, that they could establish analter ego, but as a matter of law, that's insufficient toestablish alter ego.QUESTION: Well, didn't -- refresh myrecollection. Doesn't this come up on a motion forsummary judgment? MR. BENEDON: First a motion to dismiss, YourHonor -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: Yes. MR. BENEDON: -- followed by a --QUESTION: Which was denied and then there was amotion for summary judgment. MR. BENEDON: The motion for dismiss was grantedin part, Your Honor, as to all the State law claims --QUESTION: Okay. MR. BENEDON: -- the claim, and itproceeded just on the FHA claim.QUESTION: Right. Now, so if it came up on amotion for summary judgment, then whatever -- whateverevidence the plaintiffs were going to rely on for theveil-piercing would have had to have been brought forward. Isn't that right? MR. BENEDON: Absolutely.QUESTION: And what did they bring forward? MR. BENEDON: Nothing, except sole ownership.QUESTION: Sole ownership is the only thing --MR. BENEDON: Which is in dispute. Which is indispute. We maintain that ownership was, in fact,transferred, but we are assuming for the purpose of thisproceeding that there is in fact ownership resided inMr. Meyer.QUESTION: I thought that if -- that a judgmentwinner, as the Holleys are at this stage, can defend the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC judgment on another ground. In other words, the NinthCircuit ruled in their favor and now they're saying, well,here's another theory on which we could prevail. I didn'tknow -- certainly they can't get an immediate victory, butif they attempt to defend the judgment on that basis,aren't they then entitled to go back and make the caserather than taking from them their victory and saying youlose? They say, but we have another theory that would beviable. Up till now, we won with this one. Why isn'tthat altogether appropriate they should now be given achance to air that other theory in support of thejudgment? MR. BENEDON: They -- the theory was neverraised below. An alter ego is in and of itself a fact-driven inquiry. Where it's -- and so the fact that it wasn't raised below, it's -- it's now been waived. Itcan't be raised for the first time in this Court.QUESTION: Even if -- even if it had beenraised, my understanding is in -- in order to have it sentback on the -- on the basis that although the court belowrelied on one theory, it could have relied on the other,the motion for summary judgment put the plaintiff to hisproof to -- to at least come up with facts, the assertionof facts, not the demonstration of them, but the assertionof facts that would support the other theory. And the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC only fact contained here is control. So if control is --does not suffice to pierce veils, that's the end of thecase, it seems to me. MR. BENEDON: That's correct. That is correctand that is our position. QUESTION: I thought there were a bunch ofthings. I mean, the Government in its brief lists a wholebunch of things. He was the sole shareholder. He was thepresident. He did control it. He paid the taxes in hisown Social Security number. He made various transactionsthat violated the terms under which it was supposed to bethe corporate form, and he didn't train the personproperly. I mean, they have a list of things which I takeit they didn't just make up, that they're there in therecord. Then -- and then they say that, well, in theNinth Circuit brief, what it says in the footnote is thatevidence -- evidence will show that Meyer is the soleshareholder of Triad, and thus an argument to pierce thecorporate veil would be meritorious. Well, they don'tlist all those things in that footnote. That's true. Butwe should send it back and let the Ninth Circuit decide.I guess that's basically their argument, and Ithink I want to hear as complete a response to that as --as you have. Maybe I've heard it already. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. BENEDON: No. You -- I would like toamplify on that, Your Honor. The issue of -- of alter ego that's been nowraised for the first time in this -- in this Court by theSolicitor General is based on speculation beyond theshowing that there was sole ownership and that there is noinsurance coverage. Everything else is unsupported by therecord in terms of establishing that there was a failureto adhere to corporate formalities, that there was under-capitalization. All that is speculation. And theargument boils down --QUESTION: Was it not even asserted? I mean --MR. BENEDON: No. QUESTION: -- to survive the motion for summaryjudgment, you don't have to prove it, but you have to say I -- you know, I will prove it.MR. BENEDON: No, it wasn't --QUESTION: It wasn't even asserted.MR. BENEDON: It was not even asserted. It'sasserted for the first time in this Court.QUESTION: Well, in the footnote -- they mentionit in the footnote. MR. BENEDON: They mention sole ownership in thefootnote.QUESTION: Well, that's -- that's -- you're th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC quite right.MR. BENEDON: Yes. And for example, the --Your -- Your Honor made reference to payment of taxes. While that was alleged, it was never proven at the summaryjudgment stage. That's just an allegation in their --QUESTION: I don't know what that means. Whileit was alleged, it was never proven at the summaryjudgment stage. MR. BENEDON: Right. There's --QUESTION: There -- there was no evidencebrought in at all to establish it.MR. BENEDON: That he -- that taxes were paidunder his ID? None whatsoever.QUESTION: Well, was -- was there an affidaviton their side claiming that? MR. BENEDON: On the other side claiming that?QUESTION: Yes. How did it get raised?MR. BENEDON: It was raised solely as a -- as anallegation in the complaint. And then when it came timefor them to put their proof on the table, it wasn't there.QUESTION: So at the summary judgment stage,they didn't rely on that is what you're saying.MR. BENEDON: Correct.QUESTION: They didn't. Okay.MR. BENEDON: Correct. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: And did you deny it?MR. BENEDON: Absolutely. Absolutely. Butagain, it was not raised as a disputed material fact onthe summary judgment, so there's no formal denial in therecord because it was never raised. I'm denying it now.QUESTION: And you said there was no genuineissue -- no triable issue at the summary judgment stage,that there were no facts?MR. BENEDON: That there was no issue regardingpayment of taxes under Mr. Meyer's personal ID number.QUESTION: Well, if the question is the -- theliability of Mr. Meyer -- and at the summary judgmentstage, it's not a trial. You don't prove your case atthat point. It's only if there's no genuine triableissue.MR. BENEDON: Right. The only issue on thesummary judgment was whether or not Mr. Meyer was stillthe owner of Triad Corporation. The district court foundnot. The Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals found that therewas a disputed issue on sole ownership.QUESTION: But what was the relevance of whetherhe was the owner or not? I don't quite understand. MR. BENEDON: They're claiming that that wassufficient to establish alter ego, Your Honor. QUESTION: Alter ego, but not piercing the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC corporate veil, is that --MR. BENEDON: Well, I'm using thoseinterchangeably. I apologize. QUESTION: I'm sorry. I didn't understand you.MR. BENEDON: I use those interchangeably. They -- both alter ego as a basis for piercing thecorporate veil. They were arguing -- and in fact, theNinth Circuit held -- that sole ownership of thecorporation was enough to pierce the corporate veil.QUESTION: They were arguing that. So they werearguing the pierce the corporate veil theory then.MR. BENEDON: No. They -- solely based on soleownership. Correct.QUESTION: But the -- but the purpose ofinvestigating the sole ownership issue was to determine whether or not they could pierce the corporate veil. Isthat right? MR. BENEDON: Based --QUESTION: Which seems to me as though theirissue of whether they could pierce the corporate veil wasat least raised, and the question is whether their claimof sole ownership was sufficient to establish that point. Maybe I'm misunderstanding something. MR. BENEDON: Right. Well, that -- that's theargument that's made in their footnote on the last page of th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC their brief is that sole ownership would establish analter ego sufficient to pierce the corporate veil. And asa matter of law, that's -- that is insufficient.QUESTION: But -- but now I'm just a littlepuzzled about the extent to which it was raised in thedistrict court. Was there a debate on the -- in thedistrict court as to whether your client was the soleowner or not? MR. BENEDON: Yes, there was.QUESTION: And what was the purpose of thatdebate in the district court? Wasn't it for the very samereason? MR. BENEDON: They were trying to -- no, Idisagree. I think what they were trying to establish inthe district court was the -- the control exerted by my client over the corporation as opposed to saying that heshould be necessarily a veil-piercing --QUESTION: Well, maybe I -- I don't remember thefacts correctly. But I thought that control was reallynot in dispute. I thought that the -- the person to whomhe transferred stock didn't get all the stock, did he, ordid he get just some of the stock?MR. BENEDON: He got some of the stock, butownership --QUESTION: So he still would have had control. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. BENEDON: He would have partial control asa -- as a shareholder.QUESTION: I see. MR. BENEDON: But the -- the Ninth Circuit heldthat that was enough. The court -- the Ninth Circuit --QUESTION: Not -- not that it was enough forpiercing the veil, but that it was enough for what?MR. BENEDON: It was enough to impose personalliability.QUESTION: On what basis? Not onveil-piercing --MR. BENEDON: No.QUESTION: -- basis.MR. BENEDON: Solely on sole ownership. They --the Ninth Circuit, taking a -- its lead from, I believe, the Seventh Circuit, said basically that in a situationlike this where you have sole ownership, under the FHAthat's enough to impose --QUESTION: Okay. You don't have to pierce theveil.MR. BENEDON: Correct. It's -- it's an almostper se piercing based on sole ownership.QUESTION: But just returning one -- once againto the broker problem. I'm looking at Gipson versus DavisRealty, which is a case by Judge -- written by Judge th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Molinari. It's cited on page of the respondents'brief. That was a standard respondeat superior case wherethe broker -- pardon me -- where the salesman is in anautomobile accident and they seek to hold the principalfor the damages caused by the accident within the courseof his employment. And this is the case where thestatement is made that the broker is liable for themisconduct or -- or malfeasance of -- of the agent in thecourse of -- of his employment. And it's a case much like this where there's acorporation that holds the license. There -- theredoesn't seem to be a -- a distinction between thecorporate license and -- and the broker license that youmade. Is that -- was the law changed since the Gipsoncase, or --MR. BENEDON: Not that I'm aware of, Your Honor.Again, I -- I don't have the facts of that caseat -- at the tip of my fingers.QUESTION: Well, it was relied on in therespondents' brief. MR. BENEDON: Right. But again, in that case Idon't recall if it was a corporate broker or whether itwas an individual broker. But if it was a corporatebroker and they're holding them individually liable forthe torts of the -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: Well, as I understand the facts ofthe case, it was an individual who held the license and heoperated through a corporation. That's -- that's --MR. BENEDON: Well, again, I would say that whatCalifornia decides to do is not what needs -- can be whatdetermines under the -- the Federal statute. It's beenargued by both sides and the case law is consistent thatit's Federal rules of agency. And under Federal rules ofagency, the salesperson is the agent of the corporation,not the individual broker.If there are no further questions, I would justlike to conclude and save the rest -- the remainder of mytime for rebuttal. QUESTION: Very well.Mr. Schwemm.ORAL ARGUMENT OF ROBERT G. SCHWEMMON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTSMR. SCHWEMM: Justice Stevens, and may it pleasethe Court:I'd like to begin by addressing theveil-piercing and the preserving issue, particularly withrespect to Justice Scalia's question because I disagreewith my learned friend on the procedural posture of thiscase. There was a (b)() motion to dismiss. In the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC complaint at that time, there were essentially twotheories. The complaint said that Mr. Meyer should beliable as an individual because he owned the corporation,and the complaint also said that Mr. Meyer should beliable because he was the officer/broker.The district court granted in part, even withrespect to the Fair Housing Act claim, the (b)() motionand, in particular, held that the allegations of thecomplaint with respect to ownership under no circumstancescould lead to liability. And the only thing that thedistrict court did not grant (b)() on was the issuewith respect to liability based on officer/broker. That led to discovery. The district court thengranted summary judgment because it was the districtcourt's theory on that issue that there could not be liability unless Mr. Meyer held an individual broker'slicense as opposed to what he holds in this case, which isa license through Triad, or more properly, according tothe California law, Triad holds the license through him.So with all respect, what the district courtheld in the (b)() motion was that no set of facts thatthe plaintiffs could prove could justify veil-piercing. We never got --QUESTION: Well, could prove or -- or claimedthey could prove in response to the motion. I mean, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC you -- you don't have to sit back and say, I wonder whatthey might be able to prove. You -- you have to have madean offer of proof, and -- and what the court held was thatnone of the facts that you claimed you could prove wouldsuffice. Isn't that an accurate description of -- ofwhat -- what the holding of the court was?MR. SCHWEMM: And the facts that we alleged werethat Mr. Meyer was the sole owner of the corporation,which they denied, and that that was sufficient to imposeindividual liability. And when the district court granted(b)() motion, my understanding of that is that he issaying, under no set of facts will you ever win. Now, what would --QUESTION: -- isn't that true that -- that youhave to have something more than simply a person being a sole owner of a corporation? Otherwise a person couldn'tcreate a corporation with himself as a percent owner.MR. SCHWEMM: Absolutely. QUESTION: All right. So they're -- whatthey're saying is you didn't allege anything than that,and you certainly didn't support anything other than thatwith affidavits or other -- or other offers of proof.MR. SCHWEMM: That's -- that was my point --QUESTION: Yes. MR. SCHWEMM: -- with respect to the summary th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC judgment. QUESTION: All right. Well, if you -- if youdidn't, then you're out of luck, aren't you?MR. SCHWEMM: I don't think so because --QUESTION: Because? MR. SCHWEMM: -- at the (b)() motion stage,we are told that you can't even --QUESTION: No, no. I'm not saying (b)(). I mean on summary judgment. MR. SCHWEMM: Yes. If my learned friend wasright that this was a summary judgment dismissal of thatclaim, I might agree. But that's not right.We were stopped at the very pleadings stage. Wewere prepared to show both of the key factors with respectto veil-piercing, which is that the corporation is heavily underfunded. In fact, in a colloquy with the districtcourt, the defendant's counsel, after the (b)() motion,Your Honor, when the only thing left was the summaryjudgment with respect to the broker situation, thedistrict court said, is there any money in the company? And the defendant's lawyer said, no, there is not.QUESTION: Okay. I have your complaint here onpage and of the joint appendix. First claim, FairHousing Act. I don't see anything there about -- aboutveil-piercing or anything like that. Where -- where is it th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC in the complaint?MR. SCHWEMM: Correct, Your Honor. The -- thephrase veil-piercing is not mentioned --QUESTION: No, no. Or anything even vaguelylike that. I mean, what it seems to say is that Mr. Meyerhimself did all these things, or through his agent. Now,that's -- that's what it says.MR. SCHWEMM: The allegation, if I could referYour Honor to page of the joint appendix in paragraph of the complaint, says that he owned the corporation andon that basis he's individually liable. And then it goeson and says he also was the officer/broker of thecorporation, which is the other theory --QUESTION: Yes, I see where it says he owned thecorporation. What I don't see is something that says, and therefore he is liable because he owned it. I mean, itjust seems to be the part where you're describing theparties.MR. SCHWEMM: There is another part, Your Honor. Page of the joint appendix, paragraph , which carriesover to page . Essentially the same thing. I'm notsuggesting that there is additional material there, butthere is the allegation of ownership leading to personalliability.QUESTION: No. I mean -- to be honest with you, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC I'm not -- I'm just debating with myself whether you -- weshould send this back to the Ninth Circuit, tell them workthis out or not. And district court judges are notmind-readers. They -- they can't make up what you'resaying in a complaint unless you say it and unless youargue it. So -- so that's why I'm pressing you on this. I'm -- I'm trying to find the particular point where youreally made this point to the district court so the judgewould focus on it and make a decision.MR. SCHWEMM: Well, I wish it was more detailed,Your Honor, but it seems to me it's sufficient for noticepleading. The district court understood it. Thedefendants understood it.QUESTION: Well, he didn't seem to, in hisopinion, understand it because the only reference he has to veil-piercing seems in a footnote in a paragraph. Andwhat he seems to be saying there is referring to adifferent argument, the argument that there could be noveil-piercing because he didn't even own this corporation.And he says, that -- that's really wrong. It's not true. Or maybe he said it was right, but he was wrong if he saidit was right.MR. SCHWEMM: And that's at the (b)() stage. And -- and my understanding of that is he is saying, I'mnot going to get you -- let you go forward to your proof th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC because under no circumstances can there be veil-piercingunder the Fair Housing Act, which is just wrong.QUESTION: This was at the summary judgmentstage?MR. SCHWEMM: No, sir. On page , which is thedistrict court's order, page to the joint appendix,which is the district court's order --QUESTION: of the joint appendix. MR. SCHWEMM: Yes, Your Honor. It actuallystarts as an opinion on page of the joint appendix.This is the district court's order granting in part the(b)() motion. He doesn't allow going forward at the(b)() stage the claim based on ownership. He allowsgoing forward the claim based on corporate broker, and hespecifically refers to a case -- this is the (b)() decision -- that talks about veil-piercing. Page ofthe joint appendix in the footnote. Now, our point is that that's enough for noticepleading. The defendants understood what was going on. The judge understood what was going on. We wereprepared -- certainly at the summary judgment stage,Justice Scalia, we would -- we would have been happy to goforward with proof of underfunding, and there issubstantial proof of underfunding. We would have beenhappy to go forward with proof of lack of corporate th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC formalities. This is a company --QUESTION: Well, had you alleged any of thesethings? I mean, opposing counsel referred in his argumentto an allegation that the individual taxpayer ID numberwas being used. Did you allege that in -- in thecomplaint somewhere?MR. SCHWEMM: That we did allege.QUESTION: Okay. Where is it? I mean, this iswhat we're fishing for. Did you allege anything beyondthe mere claim of sole ownership?MR. SCHWEMM: Page of the joint appendix, YourHonor, paragraph toward the bottom of the page. Afterit's been alleged that Triad was owned by Mr. Meyer --QUESTION: Yes. I got it.MR. SCHWEMM: Got it? QUESTION: Yes.Did you allege anything -- I mean, okay, we'vegot sole ownership. We've got taxpayer ID. Did youallege anything else that might be a basis for piercingthe veil? MR. SCHWEMM: We -- we did not allege thedetails of that. That is to say, we did not allegeunderfunding, and we did not allege lack of corporateformalities. But it seems to me that's not required underConley versus Gibson. There is notice pleading, and then th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC we are put to our proof if that had been permitted to goforward to the summary judgment stage. QUESTION: You're -- the point you're making isthat you are not certainly required under the Federalrules to set out your -- any theory of the pleadings. Youjust have to state facts showing that there's a claim forrelief.MR. SCHWEMM: That's exactly right, Your Honor. And it seems to me in a case decided by this Court in themid-'s -- I believe it was Peacock -- the Court saidveil-piercing is really not a new claim. It is a theoryof relief. We have claimed Fair Housing Act liability inthe complaint based on these --QUESTION: Mr. Schwemm, can I ask you thisquestion? We really didn't grant certiorari to decide --MR. SCHWEMM: Yes. QUESTION: -- a California question as esotericas this one is. And I'm just wondering, do you defend therationale of the Ninth Circuit and do you defend the -- doyou abandon reliance on any Federal defense here?MR. SCHWEMM: Our position --QUESTION: Or Federal regulation. MR. SCHWEMM: -- is that the Ninth Circuit'sjudgment was correct, but it went too far when it reachedout and said under the Fair Housing Act we have to go th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC beyond traditional principles of agency. We think thestandard should be, just as it is under Title VII, theemployment discrimination law, in Kolstad, BurlingtonIndustries, and Faragher, that the standard for vicariousliability under the Federal statute should be a Federalstandard. And that standard should be traditional agencyprinciples as informed by the policies of the Fair HousingAct. Now, the Ninth Circuit apparently felt that theyhad to go beyond traditional agency principles. Whatwe've tried to do in the brief in Roman numerals I, II,and III is point out three separate and independentalternative theories under traditional agency principles. And in that sense, we -- we think the Ninth Circuit justreached out and tried to do something that wasn't necessary. QUESTION: Well, then is your piercing-of-corporate-veil theory a Federal theory or a State lawtheory? MR. SCHWEMM: Our position on that is that it'sprobably Federal law, but as I read Bestfoods, the Courthasn't specifically determined, and if I may say thatthis -- this is something that I don't have a position on. But either way, we are entitled to a remand whether it'sFederal or California law. But the cause of action th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC clearly is the Fair Housing Act.I believe the Government takes the position --and we certainly don't disagree with the Government --that it is a Federal question. And if I may, I want to get into those parts I,II, and III of our brief, and particularly the first partand vicarious liability. The problem we have with petitioner's argumentis that I believe it's based on two faulty assumptions. One is that petitioner wants to take certain parts of theCalifornia corporation and real estate law that areadvantageous to him, but he doesn't want to take the otherpart, which is the responsibility part. It is literallytrue that in California, a corporation can be a broker,but it cannot be a broker unless there is an individual appointed who is an officer of the corporation and hasqualified under the broker requirements, and thatindividual is required by California law to takeresponsibility for the supervision and control of theagency. QUESTION: Yes, but your opponent says thatthe -- the results under California law is he can bedisciplined if he fails to do so, but there are noCalifornia cases holding him personally liable if he failsto do so. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. SCHWEMM: Our position is that that may beright, it may be wrong. We believe this is a Federalstandard.QUESTION: Do you think it's right or wrong?MR. SCHWEMM: If we got a remand, Your Honor, wewould very much like the opportunity on this basis toargue that it's wrong. There is a California case in that holds that, but a year later, California amends itslicensing statute to add the very key provision in thiscase which is . which says that the individual who'sappointed by the corporation as the officer/broker haspersonal responsibility. So our argument would be onremand that that change. But I want to -- I want to make the pointthat --QUESTION: Well, can -- can I go back to anearlier point you made. You said that California law saysthat the corporate broker, the -- the one who's designatedfor the corporation, has to exercise control over the --over the brokers in the corporation. That may well betrue.The -- the issue is not whether he -- he has toexercise control. It's whether he exercises control inhis personal status or rather exercises control as anofficer of the corporation. If it's in the latter th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC capacity that he exercises control, he -- he should nothave personal liability. It's the corporation that hasliability.MR. SCHWEMM: Well --QUESTION: Now, as I understand the Californialaw, this broker could not operate under that license onhis own. The only way he could use that license was as anofficer of the corporation. Isn't that correct?MR. SCHWEMM: I would put it actually a littledifferently. If you divide the corporation fromMr. Meyer, Mr. Meyer can then apply, because he'squalified, to become a broker. Currently he would have tofile a paper, but he would clearly get the status. ButTriad, Inc. would cease at that moment being able to be abroker. And none of the acts in this case, none of the salesman's acts, could have been performed under therubric of Triad.And the other point that I was going to makeabout the petitioner's argument that I think is faulty isit's the assumption that if Triad, Inc. is the principalof these agents, nobody else can be the principal of theseagents. And that's clearly inconsistent with longstandingagency principles as reflected in the Restatement,section , comment f, which says there can be jointprincipals. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: Well, yes, but -- sure, of course,there can. But -- but it's not -- it's corporation lawthat -- that the officers of the corporation are not oneof those other principals.MR. SCHWEMM: Ordinarily, Your Honor, but not inthis case. I -- I repeat. This company cannot be abroker if it doesn't have a broker-qualified individualwho takes responsibility for the agents. And so --QUESTION: Do you think the Gipson case that youcited in your brief is on all fours with your case?MR. SCHWEMM: No, Your Honor, it's not on allfours. I believe what it says is if the broker isoperating as a sole proprietorship, as an individual, heclearly is vicariously liable. That is, by the way, what percent of the brokers in California do. They operateas sole proprietors, and they are clearly vicariouslyliable. There is a -- an additional question. Whathappens when you incorporate? And -- and so it's notexactly on all fours. And I think the -- the jury is out or the judgesare out with -- with respect to what California would do. Some States say in addition to the corporation, theindividual is vicariously liable; some don't. QUESTION: Well, so that means you can't have acorporation. If -- if you want to run a real estate th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC corporation, you can't do it because there has to be abroker's license, and you're going to be personallyliable. What's the use of having a corporation then?MR. SCHWEMM: There are many uses, Your Honor,and I would like to address that. The only thing that we are arguing thatMr. Meyer was responsible for is what I would call thelicensed activities. For example, if a broker went out onthe way to a meeting and negligently drove his car andcaused an accident, that is not the kind of behaviorthat's subject to broker supervision. And that would beno liability.QUESTION: Well, but if he defrauds a client or,I mean, anything that's going to involve big money on thepart of the corporation is going to come back on the head of the individual broker. So you're saying if you want tobe in the brokerage business, you cannot do it as apractical matter in the corporate form.MR. SCHWEMM: Only I'm not saying it, YourHonor. QUESTION: That's -- well, no. That -- that'swhat you say the California law says.MR. SCHWEMM: Yes. And every State -- I want tomake this point. Every single State says this. Statessay you can't even operate as a broker as a corporate th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC form. States, including California, said we will allowyou to do this, but there has to be one human being thatis responsible. And in this particular case, there came a pointwhen Mr. Meyer was trying to get the Triad licenseextended. California said you haven't satisfied thatbecause you personally, Meyer, haven't engaged in thecontinuing education requirements that an officer/brokeris required --QUESTION: That's even tougher than -- than whatmost States provide for lawyers.MR. SCHWEMM: It's very analogous to lawyers,Your Honor. QUESTION: No. It isn't analogous at all. Lawyers -- lawyers can -- can avoid personal liability. QUESTION: California doesn't give personalliability there, does it? I mean, my statute here saysthere's an officer who's designated by a corporate brokerlicense, and that officer is responsible for supervisionand control of activities conducted on behalf of thecorporation. So that suggests that he's conducting thatsupervision on behalf of the corporation, and so it's thecorporation that would respond in -- in -- under theprinciple of respondeat superior.MR. SCHWEMM: Let me -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: Evidently that's what California hasheld, and given the wording, it seems reasonable.MR. SCHWEMM: Well, it held that and thenCalifornia's legislature came along and added -- added therequirements. But let me -- let me make this observation: When Mr. Crank, the salesperson in this case, wanted toextend his salesperson's license, he was required to havehis broker authorize the forms. This was done four timesby Mr. Meyer. If you look at the form -- joint appendixlodging is the most recent example, but there are threeother examples -- the California form says, list thecompany. Triad. And then requires the officer/broker,Meyer in this case, to sign a certification whichspecifically says, I certify this salesperson is employed by me.QUESTION: I only have pages in my jointappendix. You said it was joint --MR. SCHWEMM: I'm sorry. I -- I misspoke. Joint appendix lodging, Your Honor. QUESTION: Oh.MR. SCHWEMM: It's the large tan one. QUESTION: Got you. MR. SCHWEMM: And this was done, by the way, forMr. Crank on four different occasions. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC What I'm trying to -- to say is this is aclassic case of joint principal. There aren't -- thatisn't true, Justice Scalia, in -- in every corporatesituation. Of course, not. We don't argue that. Weargue that this is a responsible human being and that thatmakes him liable --QUESTION: On the major question that we tookthe case to decide, what -- what's the general rule --well, we can ask the Government -- what the general rulefor when we look to State law and when we look to Federallaw. Certainly State law informs what the Federal lawought to be. That's -- that's Faragher and Burlington.MR. SCHWEMM: That would be my response as well.We have a -- a Federal standard informed by State law.QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. Schwemm. MR. SCHWEMM: Thank you. QUESTION: Mr. Stewart.ORAL ARGUMENT OF MALCOLM L. STEWARTON BEHALF OF THE UNITED STATES,AS AMICUS CURIAE, SUPPORTING THE RESPONDENTSMR. STEWART: Thank you, Justice Stevens, andmay it please the Court:As this case has been briefed in this Court,it's common ground among the parties and the United Statesthat questions of vicarious liability under the Fair th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Housing Act are to be decided on the basis of generallyapplicable principles of agency and corporate law ratherthan by reference to a rule that's distinct to the FHA. And obviously, it is a -- an important general principleof corporate law.QUESTION: Well, do we look to general Federalcommon law agency principles, or are we bound by Stateagency law, Mr. Stewart? MR. STEWART: I think the Court -- I'm sorry. I think the task for the Court would to -- be to devise auniform nationwide rule. That's what the Court said --But certainly the Court will look as -- as inFaragher and in Ellerth, the Court looked to theRestatement of Agency which for the most part is acompilation of decisions rendered by State courts. Soit's -- it's looking to the law of the States generally,but it's not looking to the law of a particular State. Sowith respect to our veil-piercing argument, we would saythat the Court should devise a uniform Federal --QUESTION: Well, do you think it's fair to readthe complaint that was filed as putting anyone on noticethat it was a veil-piercing case?MR. STEWART: We think that the claim wasadequately raised in the district court.QUESTION: Where? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. STEWART: The --QUESTION: Could you read it to us?MR. STEWART: The -- the plaintiffs --QUESTION: Because it's not clear to me.MR. STEWART: The plaintiffs --QUESTION: I don't think if I read thatcomplaint, I would read it as one that was proceeding on aveil-piercing theory.MR. STEWART: Well, the --QUESTION: I would have thought it wasproceeding on the designated broker theory. MR. STEWART: Well, the plaintiffs -- theplaintiffs didn't use the phrase, veil-piercing, but onpage of the joint appendix, for instance, they allegedthat Mr. Meyer is the designated officer/broker of Triad, the president of Triad. They also alleged thatMr. Meyer -- they alleged that Mr. Meyer was the soleshareholder of Triad. In addition, as Mr. Schwemm pointedout --QUESTION: But that would be consistent with acorporation that's wholly adequately funded and -- andwhose -- which -- whose veil cannot be pierced.MR. STEWART: And it's true that they -- theydidn't allege in the complaint inadequate capitalization. However, as Mr. Schwemm pointed out, there was a colloquy th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC in the district court in which the petitioner's counselappeared to acknowledge that the corporation was withoutassets. And --QUESTION: But it isn't -- I mean, look. Thejudge is sitting there on a motion to dismiss thecomplaint, and he reads the complaint. And when he readsthe complaint, he looks to claims, and he sees firstclaim, Fair Housing Act, which doesn't have a word aboutthis theory. And apparently in the brief, a differenttheory was produced, the one that's been produced today,that the reason they're liable is not because we want topierce the veil, but because it's Mr. Meyer who's reallythe holder of the license in some sense, and that issufficient. So not surprisingly, the district court says that. He says any liability against Meyer as an officerof Triad would attach only to Triad in that plaintiffshave not urged theories that could justify reaching Meyerindividually, with one exception. And he then goes anddiscusses the exception. Well, if I were a districtjudge, I would have thought I had done my job at thatpoint unless somebody came in and petitioned for rehearingand said, judge, you missed something, which no one did.MR. STEWART: I think you're right that theprimary theory that the respondents advocated in the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC district court was based on Mr. Meyer's --QUESTION: No. Sole. Let's try sole theory.MR. STEWART: Well, this -- this was raised anddisputed in the Ninth Circuit; that is --QUESTION: In the footnote.MR. STEWART: Not just in the footnote. In theNinth Circuit at page and of the petition appendix,the Ninth Circuit having turned to the possible liabilityof Mr. Meyer as the shareholder of Triad. And the NinthCircuit said petitioner Meyer disputes that he was sued inthat capacity. However, the Ninth Circuit goes on tohold, we disagree. We think that claim was adequatelyraised in the district court. QUESTION: Of -- of course, what was raised iswe get Meyer because Meyer holds the license, and even though it's held in the name of the corporation, thatreally doesn't matter. MR. STEWART: No. But the Ninth Circuit clearlyunderstood the claim against Meyer as shareholder to bedistinct from or at least in addition to the claim againstMeyer as designated officer/broker. That is, what -- what seems to us to make this aparadigmatic case for veil-piercing, taking the facts --QUESTION: Well, maybe it is.MR. STEWART: -- in the light most favorable to th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC the respondent, is the combination of functions thatMr. Meyer played. Now, it's true that the respondent by and largeand the Ninth Circuit appeared to regard these distinctfunctions as separate and independent bases for liability. But in our view, it's only a short step to say even if noone of the roles that Mr. Meyer played would be anindependently sufficient ground for imposing personalliability, the combination of functions, together with theinadequate -- apparent inadequate capitalization --QUESTION: Mr. Stewart, as -- as I understandthe theory of why the failure to bring forward affidavitsor some -- some evidentiary proof of these matters at thesummary judgment stage was not necessary, as I understandit, the plaintiffs' theory is it wasn't necessary because the piercing-the-veil portion of the complaint never madeit to the summary judgment stage. It had been dismissedon the face of the complaint. Is that correct?MR. STEWART: That is correct. QUESTION: Now, was there an appeal of thatdismissal on the face of the complaint? MR. STEWART: The -- the ultimate -- there wasnot a separate appeal, but the ultimate appeal that wentto the Ninth Circuit was an appeal both from the dismissalof certain portions of the complaint and from the grant of th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC summary judgment with respect to --QUESTION: What portion? Was -- it was anappeal of the -- of the portion of the complaint thatdismissed -- dismissed a -- a veil-piercing --MR. STEWART: It was not specific. The -- theappeal from the dismissal was with regard to Mr. Meyer'spotential liability as shareholder and the appeal from thegrant of summary judgment with regard to his potentialliability as designated officer/broker was based on thegrant of summary judgment. QUESTION: Well, so in addition to the complaintbeing very vague, the -- the appeal of the dismissal waspretty vague too. I -- I don't understand what -- I mean,if you were objecting to the dismissal of the -- of -- ofa veil-piercing theory, you -- you should have, it seems to me, come forward and say, I object to dismissal of thattheory.MR. STEWART: I would acknowledge that thetheory that -- that we and the respondents have -- theveil-piercing theory that we have advanced in this Courtis a refinement of what was said in the Ninth Circuit. But it's -- it's always been part of the case thatMr. Meyer's liability was alleged on the basis of hisstatus as shareholder, his status as designatedofficer/broker, his status as president. And again, the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC claim in the Ninth Circuit tended -- tended to be morethat these were independent bases for liability. And ourview is that no one of them would be sufficient in and ofitself. Taken together, they establish that Mr. Meyerexercised pervasive control over --QUESTION: Mr. Stewart, I'm -- I'm confusedabout one procedural point. Was there not a finaljudgment in the district court --MR. STEWART: There -- there --QUESTION: -- at the end of the rope, one finaljudgment that says that defendant wins and then you --from that final judgment you can take up all the rulingsagainst the verdict -- the -- the judgment loser?MR. STEWART: That -- that's correct. Thedistrict judge first threw out on (b)() everything except the claim against Mr. Meyer as designatedofficer/broker, and subsequently entered summary judgmentfor the petitioner on that claim. And then there was afinal judgment and that was taken up to the Ninth Circuit.QUESTION: And the final judgment would includeall the rulings on the way to that final judgmentdisposing of the entire case.MR. STEWART: That -- that's correct. Now, in the course of doing discovery on thedesignated officer/broker question, they -- the plaintiffs th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC unearthed some facts that are potentially relevant to theveil-piercing theory, but they've had no discovery onveil-piercing as such. And another important criterion in determiningwhether veil-piercing is appropriate is whether theindividual bears some degree of personal fault for thewrong alleged. And here, the plaintiffs' allegation isthat Mr. Meyer negligently supervised Mr. Crank, that thatwas a contributing factor in Crank's ultimate misconduct,and that would suffice to show that aspect of theveil-piercing analysis. I think it's also important to note that courtsare typically more willing to pierce the veil in tortcases than in contract cases; that this Court hasdescribed the Fair Housing Act as -- as essentially defining a new type of tort. The theory is that incontract cases, an individual who contracts with acorporation has his own opportunity to assess the -- thecorporation's finances and decline to do business if thecorporation seems likely not to be able to satisfy itsobligations whereas in a tort case the -- the potentialplaintiff has no opportunity to do that.Inadequate capitalization has always been animportant factor in veil-piercing analysis, and really itgoes to the question whether the incorporators have th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC adequately respected the independent status of thecorporate entity.QUESTION: You don't -- you don't rely in yoursubmission on the proposition that under California law,the broker is liable. MR. STEWART: We -- we don't. That --QUESTION: And is that because you accept thedistinction between a corporate broker -- a broker'slicense which is in the corporation?MR. STEWART: I think it's partly that. I thinkit's partly just the general background rule is individualsupervisors are ordinarily not vicariously liable fortorts committed by the people they supervise.QUESTION: Suppose in a majority of the States,the broker is liable for the -- I forget the --intervening corporate -- suppose in a majority of theStates, the broker is liable for the acts of thesalesperson.MR. STEWART: May I answer?QUESTION: Yes. MR. STEWART: If a consensus developed among theStates that designated officers/brokers were sufficientlydifferent from ordinary supervisors that they should beheld vicariously liable, then we would advocate that asthe general Federal rule. But the respondent has not th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC established that there is such a consensus.QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. Stewart.Mr. Benedon, you have minutes left.REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF DOUGLAS G. BENEDONON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERMR. BENEDON: Your Honors, I would submit atthis point unless there are any further questions. QUESTION: Thank you. QUESTION: I --QUESTION: Oh, excuse me.QUESTION: I do have -- I'm still -- what is --what is your response to the -- to the assertion that itwas not necessary for the plaintiffs to bring forward anyaffidavits or evidence at the summary judgment stagebecause on the -- on the veil-piercing issue -- because that issue was no longer alive at the -- at the summaryjudgment stage. It had been dismissed on the complaint.MR. BENEDON: I would start from the premisethat the veil-piercing theory was never born, not that itwasn't alive. Okay?QUESTION: In other words, you -- you concedethat then and -- and you -- you fall back on -- on thesimple fact that the veil-piercing theory was never -- wasnever really contained in the complaint. MR. BENEDON: Never contained in the complaint, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC never raised --QUESTION: But it is actually. I mean, it saysthat -- that the -- the defendant violated the FairHousing Act when his agent discriminated. That's what itsays in paragraph . And then previously in paragraph , it lists awhole lot of facts about the relationship of Mr. Meyer tothe company including the fact about the tax numbers andso forth. And so what they say is, you know, the complaintdoesn't have to spell out every theory, but it does statesome facts there from which this basis could be fairlyinferred, and therefore it shouldn't have been dismissed. Rather, they should have had at least an opportunity toargue it. I -- I take it something like that is their claim. MR. BENEDON: But again, we have to look at whatare the allegations in the complaint.QUESTION: Well, the allegations are just what Ihad said, paragraph --MR. BENEDON: There --QUESTION: Yes.MR. BENEDON: There are allegations of soleownership, corporate -- that he was the sole owner, thathe was the officer/broker, and that he was the president, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC and that the taxes were paid under his ID number, anallegation that's never been proven. I think most telling to what was the issue inthis case is the holding of the Ninth Circuit itself, andthat's at page of the joint appendix where the court ofappeals states where common ownership and managementexists, corporate formalities must not be rigidly adheredto, a holding which is clearly erroneous, but which setsout what was the issue in this case. The issue was notunder-capitalization. The issue was not mismanagement ofcorporate formalities. The issue is -- was couldMr. Meyer as an individual be held liable because he wasthe sole owner, president, and designated broker ofTriad -- Triad Realty. Excuse me.And for that reason, the Ninth Circuit should be reversed and the judgment of the district court in favorof Mr. Meyer reinstated in full.JUSTICE STEVENS: Thank you, Mr. Benedon.The case is submitted. (Whereupon, at : a.m., the case in theabove-entitled matter was submitted.) th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC 