 IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XCITY OF COLUMBUS, ET AL., Petitioners ::v. : No. -OURS GARAGE AND WRECKER SERVICE, INC., ET AL. ::- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XWashington, D.C.Tuesday, April , The above-entitled matter came for oral argumentbefore the Supreme Court of the United States at :a.m.APPEARANCES:JEFFREY S. SUTTON, ESQ., Columbus, Ohio; on behalf of thePetitioners.MALCOLM L. STEWART, ESQ., Assistant to the SolicitorGeneral, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; onbehalf of the United States, as amicus curiae,supporting the Petitioners.RICHARD A. CORDRAY, ESQ., Grove City, Ohio; on behalf ofthe Respondents. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC C O N T E N T SORAL ARGUMENT OF JEFFREY S. SUTTON, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioners MALCOLM L. STEWART, ESQ.On behalf of the United States, as amicus curiae, supporting the Petitioners RICHARD A. CORDRAY, ESQ.On behalf of the Respondents REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OFJEFFREY S. SUTTON, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioners PAGE th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC P R O C E E D I N G S(: a.m.)CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: We'll hear argumentnow in No. -, City of Columbus v. Ours Garage andWrecker Service, Inc.Mr. Sutton.ORAL ARGUMENT OF JEFFREY S. SUTTONON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERSMR. SUTTON: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice. Mayit please the Court:The question presented in this case is whetherCongress in divested the States of their traditionalauthority to delegate police powers over local safetymatters to their political subdivisions. It would be nosmall matter for Congress to impose such a restriction onthe States, and we submit they did no such thing in thisinstance. In making that point, it may be helpful to lookat the text of the statute, which is reprinted in full inthe appendix to our brief, the blue brief. And page A-of that appendix specifically repeats the language of(c)()(A), the operative provision at issue here. And our first point, as a matter of the languageof the statute, is that Congress specifically said thatthe preemption provision, quote, "shall not restrict the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC safety regulatory authority of a State."Now, prior to , Ohio, the State of Ohio, hadexercised regulatory authority in this area by delegatingits power specifically over tow truck regulations to localpolitical subdivisions. It's very difficult for us tounderstand how the court of appeals interpretation doesnot in fact, quote, "restrict the safety regulatoryauthority of a State." That's --QUESTION: Well, I think the argument on theother side, Mr. Sutton, is that the first section (a)()does say, no State or political subdivision thereof and nointerstate agency. It talks about a political subdivisionso that when you come down to the section you've justquoted, and it only says State, there's perhaps a fairinference that only a State and not a politicalsubdivision is included. MR. SUTTON: Yes, Your Honor. And the normalRussello argument is that a litigant like myself is tryingto read into another provision a term that is specificallymentioned elsewhere in the statute. Here the suggestionis that we're trying to read the term, politicalsubdivision, into (c)()(A). That's not what we're tryingto do. What we're saying is the traditional safetyregulatory authority of a State was preserved by (c)()(A) th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC and traditionally States, including Ohio, had specificallyexercised that authority by delegating it in someinstances to State executive branch agencies and in otherinstances, specifically here, to political subdivisions.QUESTION: Would your argument be the same ifthe State had not made a specific delegation? Did it makea specific delegation with respect to tow trucks?MR. SUTTON: Actually it did, although it's --it's backwards, in the sense that they generally regulateall motor carriers at the State level, but they exemptedtow trucks, therefore allowing political subdivisions likeColumbus to enact their own tow truck ordinances. So, infact, in this case it would be specific, although Iwouldn't say our argument rests on that point. ManyStates like Ohio are home rule States, which in theirconstitutions give general grants to politicalsubdivisions to have powers of local self-government. So,in this case, I -- I would say it's a little easierbecause there was something specific as to tow trucks, butI wouldn't say that our argument rests on that point.QUESTION: Mr. Sutton, would -- would you look alittle further down in, in the provision set forth in theappendix to your brief? Look on page A-. You werereading from (c)()(A) --MR. SUTTON: Yes, Your Honor. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: -- in which it says, shall notrestrict the safety regulatory authority of a State. Andyou say that includes, you know, political subdivisions ofa State.MR. SUTTON: No. That it includes the right todelegate political subdivisions.QUESTION: All right. Okay. Just read two --two lines later, ()(C) where it says, does not apply.MR. SUTTON: Right. QUESTION: Again, it uses the same -- shall notrestrict, does not apply to the authority of a State, or apolitical subdivision of a State, to enact or enforce alaw, regulation, or other provision. Why in thatprovision does it say does not apply to a State or apolitical subdivision? Because you're telling us, whenyou say State, it includes whatever authority the Statehas to delegate to a political subdivision.MR. SUTTON: We're not saying --QUESTION: You wouldn't have --MR. SUTTON: We're not --QUESTION: -- you wouldn't have needed thatlanguage there.MR. SUTTON: We're not saying States arepolitical subdivisions. We're simply saying thepreservation of a State, deregulatory authority of a State th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC includes the power to delegate. But as to (c)()(C), keep in mind that was a amendment. That was not part of the originallegislation. So, the suggestion would be thatCongress's --QUESTION: Well --MR. SUTTON: -- style in modified the act. And no one is arguing --QUESTION: I think we always look at an act intoto and -- and don't try to piece it apart as to what wasenacted when. It seems to me we have to make sense ofthis statute as a whole.MR. SUTTON: That's -- that's true, Your Honor. But I -- in O'Gilve, the Court said specifically that alater act cannot modify the terms of an earlier act.But let me -- I think there's another answerthat --QUESTION: It doesn't modify it, but it -- itcan give clear indication of what -- of what it meant. I mean, you're assuming that it modifies it.MR. SUTTON: Right. Well, Your Honor, the --the thing that I think may be helpful in thinking about(c)()(C) and the other mentions of political subdivisionthroughout is they're all in the context of --context of the enact or enforce language, which is exactly th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC how (c)() reads. (c)() says these political bodies maynot enact or enforce these particular laws. That, ofcourse, is not the way (c)()(A) or, for that matter,(a)() -- (a)() does exactly the same thing. Itpreserves the safety regulatory authority of the Stateover these various other provisions elsewhere identifiedin title .When it comes to (c)()(C), it's dealing with atopic specifically mentioned in (c)(), prices. And itfollows the exact same structure of(c)(), notsurprisingly, because it's dealing with a topic that iscovered in (c)().(c)()(A) --QUESTION: Mr. Sutton, are you making thedistinction there between the safety regulations whichwould be covered under (c)() and the economic regulationwhich would be the main prohibition?MR. SUTTON: Exactly, Your Honor. And there wasa division of authority, going back to , where the oldICC had regulated all of the economic issues over motorcarriers, and the Department of Transportation hadregulated all the safety issues. And what happens in is they're simply deregulating. The ICC is deregulatingthis area. They wanted to make sure, as this Court saidin Morales, that States wouldn't undo that particular th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC deregulatory effort. But at the same time, as (c)()(A)and (a)() makes clear, they wanted to preserve theprovisions of a separate part of title dealing withsafety issues, something that DOT, a separate agency, hadalways regulated. And I hope, Justice Scalia, this willhelp in getting to your -- your point.QUESTION: There's a --MR. SUTTON: Oh, I'm sorry. QUESTION: There's a question I think that stillwould be left open even if you prevail; that is, whetherthese regulations are appropriately characterized aseconomic or safety. You say they're all safety. MR. SUTTON: Absolutely. QUESTION: But that hasn't been adjudicated yet.MR. SUTTON: Absolutely. And -- and if -- ifthe court of appeals decision would reverse, it wouldcertainly be within the rights of respondents to go backto the Sixth Circuit and say, as to some of theseprovisions of the Columbus code, they are not in factsafety ordinances or safety provisions, and therefore theycould be regulated as a price, route, or service. But there's another, I think, important pointthat responds to this issue of the mention of politicalsubdivisions elsewhere in . I think there is generalagreement in the case that as to (c)()(A), all of the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC other words, every single other word in (c)()(A)including, for example, the definition of the term safety,is defined not from on by looking at the differenceof -- between safety and price, routes, or servicesmentioned in (c)() -- in other words, you would notdefine safety after based on its contextualcomparison to prices --QUESTION: Where -- where exactly is (c)()(A)?MR. SUTTON: Excuse me, Your Honor. It's onA- of our appendix, and it's -- it's labeled motorcarriers of property. Excuse me. I should have made thatmore clear.The point I was trying to make is that theseother terms in (c)()(A) I think all would agree would bedefined by other provisions in title . For example, theword safety would be defined by the provisions in chapter of title , which is a large -- a large section ofthe code dealing with safety provisions. It would not bewithin the States' rights after to suddenly startreinventing new definitions of safety, new definitions ofhazardous materials routing restrictions or size andweight routing restrictions. We would be stuck with allof those definitions, including notably those preemptionprovisions. We think it would be a rather oddinterpretation of (c)()(A) to say that, yes, you th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC determine the meaning of all of these preserved matters byreference to other parts of title , but you do not do sowhen it comes to what the meaning of safety regulatoryauthority of a State is.And when you look at those other provisions oftitle , it's quite clear that Congress contemplated inall of them -- routing restrictions, safety -- that Statescould delegate their power to local subdivisions. That'snot only in some of the statutory provisions, but it's inthe regulations. QUESTION: Well, but it's not defined. Itdoesn't -- there's not a definition that says, Stateincludes political subdivision of a State.MR. SUTTON: That's not our argument, YourHonor. We're not saying a State --QUESTION: I understand it's not your argument. MR. SUTTON: We're not saying --QUESTION: It would be a stronger argument ifthat were your argument. That -- that's my point. (Laughter.) MR. SUTTON: I -- I disagree, Your Honor. We'renot saying that -- Congress -- let me put it this way. Congress has no right to empower a city. Congress can'tcreate a city. They can't give it a power. That's apower the States have. It made perfect sense in (c)()(A) th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC to preserve the safety regulatory authority of a Statebecause it's the State legislature's job to determine whatother political bodies, if any, regulate in that area.QUESTION: Well, in that connection, I was goingto ask could this -- suppose that you do not prevail inthis case and we accept the respondents' interpretation. Could the State then every year have a cleanup statute inwhich it says the State hereby adopts -- or authorizescities that are no less than X number of persons, nogreater than Y number of persons, obviously referring tothe City of Columbus, that -- that the State then allowsspecifically Columbus to regulate, that it have anordinance and it just tracks the whole ordinance?MR. SUTTON: Absolutely, Your Honor. And thatwe think --QUESTION: So, then we're not arguing about verymuch in your view. MR. SUTTON: Well, Your Honor, that would strikeme as an extraordinary hoop for Congress to ask the Statesto step through. We're not aware of a single statute thatthis Court has ever construed to mean that Statelegislatures alone, but not their political subdivisions,can regulate a particular area. I'm not aware of a singlestatute where that's ever happened. QUESTION: There's a -- there's a problem with th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC cities when you get to safety regulation for trucks. Canyou give me an example of a safety regulation that a citymight want to have that wouldn't have a negative impact orsome impact on routes? MR. SUTTON: Right. Excuse me? The last word?QUESTION: On routes. MR. SUTTON: Right. The -- and I think therespondents' point is or suggestion is that it would bequite natural for Congress to say, as to routingrestrictions, we want uniform laws. We want them to bethe same throughout the State, and we don't want to botherwith municipalities establishing different regulations fora routing restriction. Well, the -- the whole point of arouting restriction is to account for differences withinthe topography or geography of the States.QUESTION: Yes, but I mean, there's a longhistory in the ICC of trying to create, say, dynamitetruck routes. Well, you can imagine what something likethat does once you start talking about it within the city. And -- and every neighborhood in sight says, send itsomewhere else. So, it's not illogical that people whoare worried about creating uniformity of routes would say,keep the cities out of this. It's -- it's a nightmare.And -- and -- but I have no reason to knowwhether this is so or not. And so I ask you, is there any th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC kind of safety regulation that doesn't get into that kindof routing nightmare when you talk about cities?MR. SUTTON: Well, hazardous -- I -- I don'tthink the general rule has been that either the FederalGovernment or the States have been concerned about heavilypopulated regions deciding, for example, to routehazardous materials around their beltway as opposed tothrough the middle. Everyone thinks that's a good idea,and the cities generally, including Columbus, have beenleft in control of that kind of decision, which issomething obviously one doesn't need to worry about --QUESTION: But I'm looking for specifically --MR. SUTTON: In a size and weight situation, ofcourse, you're going to situations where bridges orparticular roads in, you know, densely populated areasrequire different rules than in rural regions of a Statewhere, for example, the roads are bigger and even ifthey're not bigger, they're not as near to eitherbusinesses or heavily populated areas.QUESTION: How about a restriction that on aparticular residential street that's, nonetheless, anarterial highway, no trucks over tons?MR. SUTTON: Could -- could a -- a -- thequestion, first of all, would be whether that relates tointerstate commerce, and if it relates to interstate th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC commerce -- that is, commerce between States -- then theDepartment of Transportation is -- is going to veryheavily regulate that particular route restriction and --and has authority to preempt it, even as a matter ofregulation. If it's purely intrastate, traditionallythat's been something that Congress or the agencies hardlyregulated at all, and to the extent they regulated them,it was only when there was Federal funding. But for themost part, the regime has been that a locality makes thatdecision through a delegation of power from their Statelegislature. QUESTION: Mr. Sutton, can I ask you, do youregard -- just assume the -- assume the other side isright on their interpretation. Would that mean that acity could not fix speed limits in neighborhoods? Speedlimit is a safety regulation, isn't it? MR. SUTTON: It is, Your Honor, but title --I think it's -- specifically says that traffic laws-- I think a speeding limit would fall under that --QUESTION: It would be a traffic law?MR. SUTTON: -- is something that the Departmentof Transportation does not regulate and neither doesCongress, which to me is one more indicator that youdon't, after , start having free-form debates aboutwhat safety means. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: But even if the -- if it's notfederally regulated, would there, nevertheless, not bepreemption under their interpretation of this provision ofspeed limit rules?MR. SUTTON: On what ground? I mean, it wouldhave to be a price, route, or service for there to bepreemption.QUESTION: No. I mean, if -- if you read the(c)()(A) --MR. SUTTON: As -- I see what you're saying.QUESTION: -- as -- as saying only States are --can -- are -- preserve the right to -- to regulatesafety --MR. SUTTON: Right. QUESTION: -- it seems to me that would preempta local government's right to fix a -mile limit in aschool zone. MR. SUTTON: I understand what you're saying. I think the position they would take -- and maybe they couldclarify this -- is that if it's not a price, route, orservice, you ignore (c)()(A), and you simply go to therest of title . But I'm not -- I don't know the answerto that. If I could make one more point, Justice Scalia,and I hope this responds somewhat to the point you raised th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC earlier. State laws, even if you think of them as Statelegislative acts, are being preempted in this case. Let'signore the State of Ohio. New York. The State of NewYork says as to populations with more than millionpeople, the cities in -- those populations can enact towtruck ordinances. This interpretation that the court ofappeals embraced preempts that State law. There's no --strictly speaking, there's no such thing as a city lawdivorced from a State law. The city power comes from theStates and there's just no such thing. And we think, asthe lack of parallelism between (c)() and (c)()indicates, all they were doing was preserving thattraditional safety regulatory authority of a State. If I could save the rest of my time forrebuttal, I'd appreciate it. Thank you. QUESTION: Very well, Mr. Sutton. Mr. Stewart, we'll hear from you. ORAL ARGUMENT OF MALCOLM L. STEWARTON BEHALF OF THE UNITED STATES,AS AMICUS CURIAE, SUPPORTING THE PETITIONERSMR. STEWART: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court:The phrase, safety regulatory authority of aState, in section (c)()(A) is most naturally read toencompass the State's traditional authority to delegate th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC its powers to political subdivisions. That view issupported by the larger statutory context in which thephrase appears and by the purposes of the act. As Mr. Sutton has explained and as this Courthas frequently recognized, one integral component of theState's ability to regulate within its borders is todelegate as much or as little power as it wishes tosubordinate political units. QUESTION: We understand all that, of course. And -- and in isolation, that phrase most naturally would-- would mean safety regulatory authority of a State,including, of course, its ability to delegate it tomunicipalities. But what is sticking in our craw is the factthat elsewhere in the statute, the language is verycareful to distinguish between the authority of a State,on the one hand, and the -- and the separate authority ofpolitical subdivisions of the State. Now, what -- what isyour explanation for those other separations?MR. STEWART: I guess there are about threeresponses we would make. The first is, as Mr. Sutton points out, this isnot a case in which the other provisions are identical butfor the inclusion of the word political subdivision. Forinstance, in subsection (c)()(C), which is at the -- the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC top of A- of the --QUESTION: Right. MR. STEWART: -- petitioners' brief, it refersto the authority of a State or a political subdivision ofa State to enact or enforce a law. Now, even thoughdelegating power to municipalities is an integral featureof the State's regulatory authority, it would certainly beless than clear that when a municipality enacted orenforced a law, pursuant to such delegation, it could notnecessarily be said that the State had enacted or enforcedthat law. And so, if the provision left out politicalsubdivisions and simply said that the preemption rule doesnot apply to the authority of a State to enact or enforcea law, there would be ambiguity, and Congress -- whetherit was necessary or not, Congress might rationally chooseto eliminate that potential ambiguity through an expressreference to political subdivision. But the phrase that appears in subsection ()(A)is simply safety regulatory authority of a State, andthat, as you say, would most naturally be construed toencompass the authority to delegate power tomunicipalities. The second point is that based on the country'straditions, it would certainly be an unusual thing for th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Congress to interfere with the States' decisions as to theamount of power that should be delegated to subordinatepolitical units.QUESTION: Has there been any -- what's theclosest case respondents could cite to show a contrarypractice? MR. STEWART: I believe the respondents havecited a couple of court of appeals cases which haveheld --QUESTION: From this Court?MR. STEWART: None from this Court. The -- therespondents have not cited any case in which this Courthas held that any Federal statute had the effect ofdivesting a State of its authority to delegate power topolitical subdivisions. QUESTION: Well, there are many Federal statutesthat -- that make grants to municipalities for variousfunctions and don't make it to the State. This is a --certainly the Federal Government interfering in therelationship between the State and its municipalities. And the State has no -- no ability to veto whether themunicipality is going to accept those funds or not. Andthere's -- there's been a lot of controversy within theStates between the municipalities and the State governmentas to -- as to what money should be accepted and so forth. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC It seems to me that has exactly the same effect as whatyou're talking about here. The Federal Government has,indeed, indeed, intervened in the relationship between theState and its -- and its political subdivisions.MR. STEWART: We cited the Lee Deadwood case inour brief as support for the proposition that Congresswould constitutionally be authorized to preempt municipallaw without preempting State law if it chose. Our onlypoint is it would be sufficiently unusual that we wouldexpect Congress to address the matter fairly directly.QUESTION: Mr. Stewart, would you be able togive us any examples of municipal safety regulations thatare preempted by this section as it's been interpretedbelow?MR. STEWART: We -- I think that as it's beeninterpreted --QUESTION: As a practical matter?MR. STEWART: As it's been interpreted below, Ibelieve the types of regulations that have been heldpreempted are -- are fairly similar to the City ofColumbus's regulation, namely, a licensing scheme in whichthe vehicle is inspected, the driver is tested to ensureproficiency in the operation of the vehicle. And thosehave been held to be preempted on the ground that theyrelate to routes -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: So, we're really talking aboutlicensing schemes. Is this anything that the State couldn'tundertake to do itself with its State driver's license andso forth?MR. STEWART: I -- I think that the licensingscheme, while we would respect Ohio's decision to delegatethat to municipalities, it -- in truth I think this issomething that could fairly realistically be accomplishedat the State level. Now, with respect to some of the other mattersthat are specified in (c)()(A), for instance, routecontrols based on size and weight or hazardous nature ofthe cargo, because the determination at issue is whether aparticular vehicle or a particular cargo is suitable for aparticular stretch of road, those are the sorts of thingsthat can't realistically be expected to be done in theirentirety at the State level. And therefore, it would be aparticular disruption of the State's processes --QUESTION: Mr. Stewart, before your time goesout, will you give us your third point too? You gave usthe first two. MR. STEWART: The third point is that to theextent that the provision at issue here is ambiguous andthe Court wants to interpret it by reference to other th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC relevant statutory provisions, it is important to examinethe larger statutory context. That is, (c)()(A) is notlimited to safety. It specifies these other matters, andas Mr. Sutton was pointing out, the other matters arecovered in detail in different provisions of title . Ingeneral, those other provisions of title contain theirown preemption provisions. They explain at -- at greatlength what States can and can't do. At least in the areaof safety, State law is specifically defined to includethe law of the local governmental unit, and so the -- thesafety regime in the other parts of title specificallycontemplates municipal safety regulation. And it would beodd to think that Congress, in this oblique way, hassuperseded that carefully developed statutory framework.And to put this in larger historical context, tofollow up on Mr. Sutton's point, from to , at theFederal level there was division of regulatory authoritybetween the ICC which did economic regulation and theDepartment of Transportation which did safety regulation.And it's no coincidence that State law as to economicmatters was preempted at about the same time that the ICCsaw its powers diminished and the ICC was eventuallyeliminated altogether. This was part of a larger programof deregulating the economics of commercial trucking. But -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: Who -- who administers this statute? Is there a Federal agency that -- that can be said to beadministering this -- this statute?MR. STEWART: There -- there is no Federalagency entrusted with the administration of thisparticular statute. The Department of Transportationadministers the related provisions of title that arespecifically addressed to these matters, and theirimplementation of their responsibilities under thoseprovisions would be affected by this Court's decision inthis case because if there is no municipal safetyregulation at all, that would obviously have an impact ontheir administration of the scheme for determining whenmunicipal regulation is and is not permitted. But theyare not specifically entrusted with authority over thisscheme.So -- so to return to the point about thedivision of responsibilities, Congress eliminated the ICC,eliminated Federal economic regulation of commercialtrucking, and at the same time it preempted State law inorder to ensure that the States didn't undo the Federalderegulatory efforts. But there's been no Federalderegulation in matters of trucking safety. The priorprovisions of title remain on the books.There's no expression of congressional th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC discontent with the manner in which power in those areashas been divided between the Federal, State, and localgovernments. To the contrary, the conference reportaccompanying the act refers specifically to thosepreexisting provisions and expresses the intent that theiradministration continue unchanged.QUESTION: May I ask this question on thedivision of responsibility? Is it your view -- yourunderstanding that the cities would not be able in theirlicensing scheme to regulate the rates that the truckerscharge? MR. STEWART: That's correct. If there are no further questions, I havenothing further. QUESTION: To what extent, Mr. Stewart, does theDepartment of Transportation -- you said there's noadministrator of the statute, but they do have authorityunder the motor safety -- motor carrier safety assistanceprogram that seems to be relevant. MR. STEWART: The motor carrier safetyassistance program, and they also have authority underother provisions of title to review and declare to bepreempted State and local laws -- State and local safetylaws that apply to transportation in interstate commerce. Again, those are not provisions of this particular th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC statute. They are among the preexisting provisions oftitle that were intended to be preserved by subsection(c)()(A).QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. Stewart. Mr. Cordray, we'll hear from you. ORAL ARGUMENT OF RICHARD A. CORDRAYON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTSQUESTION: Mr. Cordray, I hope you'll tell usthe practical effects of the decision below.MR. CORDRAY: The practical effect of thedecision below, as you uncovered it in your questioningearlier, is that Federal law preempts municipalities andother local governments from imposing their own individuallicensing schemes upon motor carriers of property and thatis --QUESTION: Well, it also speaks to routes orweight limitations. Are there situations where the cityor town is particularly aware of traffic problems withinthe city or a weak bridge or something and that itslimitations are needed? MR. CORDRAY: Size and weight limitations, asthe other matters addressed in (c)()(A), would beregulated at the State level, not at the local level underthe proper reading of this statute. And the reason isthat Congress did not want to open up the trucking th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC industry, where it was attempting to do something new,which is deregulate it nationwide and create an unfetteredfree market for trucking and transportation services. QUESTION: So that if a city says no trucksthrough the park with the public playground betweencertain hours, that has to be the -- the State? That'sthe only one that could do that? MR. CORDRAY: That could be done at the Statelevel and it could be done either by going to the Statelegislature, as you suggested, or it could be done bysetting up a very simple administrative scheme at theState level where you would go to the State department --QUESTION: Well, why would --QUESTION: Well, most cities I've been in had --QUESTION: -- why would Congress choose to -- toregulate in that way, say we want the State to do it butnot the locality? MR. CORDRAY: Specifically because they weretrying to deregulate this market nationwide. To leave inplace every municipality with the option to licensedifferent motor carriers of property is not only --QUESTION: No. I'm not talking about licensing. I'm talking about the -- the example of, say, that notrucks over tons on this particular road. MR. CORDRAY: Again, I think that petitioners th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC agree and all the courts have agreed that every subsectionof (c)()(A) has to be read together, and to the extentmunicipal authority is being preempted in one respect,it's being preempted in all. And the reason is thatCongress was recognizing that schemes directedspecifically to motor carriers of property at the locallevel simply incorporated too much regulation that wouldinterfere with and impede a free market for transportationservices and motor carriers --QUESTION: May I ask a similar question? Supposing that there's a heavy rain storm in a city orsomething and it becomes unsafe to use a certain street ifthe truck is over a certain size. Could -- the policewould not be permitted to divert the traffic around thatparticular flooded area, I suppose. MR. CORDRAY: Certainly they could. This goesto your question you asked earlier which is whethertraffic laws, ordinary, general traffic laws, would bepreempted under our --QUESTION: No. This is for safety reasons.MR. CORDRAY: -- statute --QUESTION: They figure it's -- it's dangerousbecause the thing is too deep and the trucks have to over-set -- overturn or something like that. MR. CORDRAY: They -- they would be -- they th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC would be diverting --QUESTION: It would be preempted, I guess. MR. CORDRAY: They would be -- no. They wouldbe diverting presumably all traffic that's heavy enough tocreate a safety problem. QUESTION: Supposing -- truck size traffic, yes.MR. CORDRAY: Yes, but -- but it's not directedsimply to motor carriers of property. It's directed toall trucks, all oversize vehicles. It could be privatevehicles, RVs that people use to take vacations, whateverit might be. That would be permissible. And traffic laws, I want to stress, are notpreempted by this statute. This statute is not limitless. As this Court has --QUESTION: Well, then what about the -- theanswer that you gave earlier to the question that theChief Justice and I had? No -- no trucks through theplayground or -- or through a residential neighborhood ata certain time. I thought you said that would bepreempted, but now you're saying it applies only ifthey're motor carriers of property?MR. CORDRAY: Let me step back. If theordinance related to all oversize vehicles -- that wouldbe a general traffic regulation -- that would bepermissible. And I'll -- and I'll get to that in a th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC moment, why traffic laws are not preempted by the statute. They -- they are not related to price, route, or serviceof motor carriers of property.If it was directed specifically to a type ofmotor carrier of property, as this licensing scheme is --it applies directly, specifically, and only to tow trucks-- that would be a different matter. Municipalities arenot permitted to do that, and Congress specifically wantedto do that because although there was a tradition of lotsof regulation at the State and local level, Congress wasmaking a policy decision, as it's free to do, to say thatall of that is impeding a free market for transportationservices and motor carriers that's affecting broadsegments of the American economy. We want to bring downcosts, rid us of these inefficiencies --QUESTION: I understand that, but I'm at thesame question that I think everyone has asked. In my mind-- and I might be misremembering -- there are lots ofstreets -- there used to be in San Francisco and you'd seea sign, and it would say, no trucks over -and-a-halftons. And it seems to me in Boston I can think of seeingsigns. I thought maybe they said, no trucks over such andsuch. Maybe they just say no vehicle over such and such. And my impression is that in many cities there are manysuch streets, and which streets there are is a matter for th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC the municipality to decide. And it's a shifting pattern,and typically it's in residential areas. And there's lotsof local regulation of that kind. That's my impression.And I want to know, on your reading of thisstatute, does this change when I'm thinking of those signson one street after another? Does that all change becausethey're preempted, and now each neighborhood has to go toSacramento, if they're in California, and convince the --the legislature? I'd be very surprised if that is so,that Congress changed so well established a municipalpattern of behavior without saying anything about it. Andtherefore, I think everyone is driving at the samequestion. I understand about all the licensing stuff, butI want to know the answer to that question. MR. CORDRAY: All right. Again, it's not what'sspecifically at issue in this case, but I understand theCourt wants the answer to the hypothetical. Absolutely.QUESTION: It has nothing to do with this case. I'm saying when your -- accept the fact that if I acceptyour position in this case --MR. CORDRAY: Yes. QUESTION: -- at the moment I'm thinking allthis traditional regulation of what street you can use ifyou're a truck is being wiped out. I mean, that'srelevant. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. CORDRAY: It could be dealt with either oftwo ways, Your Honor. Either it could be regarded as ageneral traffic law, like a one-way street, like a speedlimit, and the like, in which case we believe that itwould not come within the preemption clause ex antebecause it has to have a connection with or reference tomotor carriers of property to come within the terms ofthis preemption clause --QUESTION: Motor carriers of property or justmotor carriers? MR. CORDRAY: Motor carriers of property whichis what --QUESTION: In other words, if they -- if theydon't say on the street motor carriers of property cannotuse this, then it's not preempted. MR. CORDRAY: Then it is a general trafficregulation no different from where the speed limit says miles per hour and trucks have to obey it, just as carsdo. And motor carriers --QUESTION: Well, does the term, motor carriersof property -- does that mean motor carriers of propertyfor hire or any motor carrier that is carrying property?MR. CORDRAY: Well, it would be those who comewithin the terms of this specific preemption clause.QUESTION: Yes, that's what I want to know. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Which does it mean? MR. CORDRAY: Yes. I -- I believe that thisstatute is referring to for hire carriers of -- motorcarriers of property.QUESTION: So -- so, if a State were to say allprices of all trucks in this State have to be $ -- alltrucks -- and they don't say motor carriers of property,that's not preempted. MR. CORDRAY: No, that is not correct becauseit's specifically referenced --QUESTION: Of course, it's not correct. Andsimilarly, if they say on a street, no truck can use thisstreet --MR. CORDRAY: Yes. QUESTION: -- and they don't say motor carriersof property, it's the same. MR. CORDRAY: The reason is -- no. The reasonis that specifically references price. There are lots oflaws that in -- tangentially will affect routes. Allright? A one-way street law, for example, has to beobeyed by trucks, just as it is by cars. That's notwithin this preemption clause. So, that's one way toaddress it. All right. And -- and that would be true ofall general traffic laws, just as it's true of all generaltort laws, general tax laws. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: Mr. Cordray, on this point, look aton page A-, (c)(), the general rule. It has at the veryend of it the phrase, with respect to the transportationof property.MR. CORDRAY: Right. QUESTION: Where are you reading from?QUESTION: I'm reading on page A-, (c)(), thegeneral rule from which (c)() is -- is an exception. Andthe general rule is, except as provided, blah, blah, blah,blah, no State, political subdivision shall enact anyprovision having the force and effect of law related to aprice, route, or service of any motor carrier. And thenthere's a lot of other language. And then at the veryend, with respect to the transportation of property. Doesthat phrase at the end go all the way back to related to aprice, route, or service with respect to thetransportation of property?MR. CORDRAY: I believe it does, Your Honor, andit's just -- it's just --QUESTION: Well, that would make it a verynarrow provision then, wouldn't it, that -- that we'reexcluding the -- the municipalities from?MR. CORDRAY: I believe it is.QUESTION: They just couldn't say you're notallowed to use this street to carry -- to carry moving th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC goods or --MR. CORDRAY: This is a key point. QUESTION: But you're -- you're asking -- you'reasking us to -- to have a very careful grammaticallycorrect reading of the act, and in your answer that --that you've just given to Justice Scalia, transportationof property is preceded by an or. It seems to me thefirst clause is quite independent, related to a price,route, or service of any motor carrier. That's it.MR. CORDRAY: With --QUESTION: So, I'm not sure the qualificationyou urge on us, in order to mitigate the effects of thisholding works.QUESTION: Well, I don't know what it would goto if it didn't go to that. It can't go to the stuffafter the or. Or any motor -- motor private carrier,broker or freight forwarder with respect to thetransportation of -- what is a -- what is a motor privatecarrier with respect to the transportation of -- ofproperty? It has no meaning unless you read it all theway back up to price, route, or service with respect tothe transportation --MR. CORDRAY: And the title of the provision ismotor carriers of property. That's specifically whatthey're dealing with, as distinguished from motor carriers th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC of passengers, which are addressed earlier in the samesection of the statute, (a).QUESTION: It's not the best statute, is it?MR. CORDRAY: I beg your pardon? QUESTION: It's not the best statute. (Laughter.) MR. CORDRAY: It's -- it's clear enough withrespect to the things we care about here, which is that --QUESTION: Well, but I don't think it is.MR. CORDRAY: -- Congress very carefullyattempted to distinguish between a State and a politicalsubdivision of a State. And it did so repeatedly in thestatute for the specific purpose of drawing a distinctionbetween them. And the only way --QUESTION: There's not a word of legislativehistory I take it --QUESTION: If you read (c)() as narrowly asyou're suggesting, you don't even need the exemptionbecause it only relates to law, regulation, or otherprovision related to price, route, or service. So -- andit doesn't even reach safety. MR. CORDRAY: No, that's not true, Your Honor. And this case is a good example of it. They areattempting to impose a licensing scheme with respect totow trucks and could do it with respect to any motor th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC carrier of property, parcel delivery service, or the like. And their -- their rationale for doing so apparently issafety. But in fact, that is exactly what is preempted bythis statute and by this clause. QUESTION: But, Mr. Cordray, that's open. Mr.Sutton said that that question whether these regulationsare genuine safety regulations or, on the other hand,economic is not determined by this case. Here thequestion is whatever is safety, may the State delegatethat authority to the municipalities.I did want to get your response to a questionJustice Kennedy asked Mr. -- and it was answered for youby Mr. Sutton. Suppose the State says, okay, we dobusiness by dealing with municipalities. So, we willsimply take the municipal regulation of Toledo and themunicipal regulation of Columbus, and we'll put it alltogether in one package. It will say, State regulation ofsafety, and -- and we'll preserve everything. Would thatbe permissible under your reading of this Federal statute?MR. CORDRAY: Yes, it would, Your Honor. Itwould. If the State is doing the regulating or enactingthe law, under this statute, the way it reads and the --the way it was designed, that would be permissible, evenif it's nonuniform. If we wanted to make it uniform, we'dhave to go to the legislature and try to get that package th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC amended or go perhaps to the State department oftransportation which also could do this through anadministrative scheme. QUESTION: So, it's strictly a question of formthat we're dealing with, that States, you can delegate toyour cities, as you always have, just say, cities, what doyou want and we'll give it to you by enacting a State law.MR. CORDRAY: No. It's not simply a matter ofform because Congress made a judgment that if there were different States imposing their own schemes, that wouldbe less impediments and -- and tangle of restrictionsimpeding a free market than if , municipalities andlocal governments around the country were free on theirown to do what they wished, and that that -- that was infact very much undercutting the desire to get to a freemarket in transportation services. But I also want to go back to your comment andyour question earlier. This statute does not itselfdistinguish between economic regulation that's preemptedon the one hand and safety regulation that's not on theother. The phrasing of the statute is much broader. Itis related to price, route, and services of a motorcarrier of property. That may not only be economicregulation. And so the notion that that's the divide andwe can simply remand, the lower court can sort it out, I th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC believe is not correct. Now, as we've seen here, the fact that the --the statute is broad does not mean it's all encompassing. I mean, I could see an argument that truck -- truckingcompanies no longer now have to pay corporate tax becausethat affects their price. But that's a general provision. As this Court has said in construing ERISA and needs to beimported here in the Dillingham case and the like, therehas to be a connection with or reference to the specificitem at issue. Here motor carriers of property. Andthat's what we have with this licensing scheme here whichis directed specifically at tow trucks and will have avery direct relation and -- and effect on their prices andservices. I also want to mention the problem of surplusagebecause it's not been mentioned on the other side, andit's very important here. What possible reason wouldCongress have had for including in the statute whatobviously is a key phrase? It shows up seven times in thecourse of the single statute. Political subdivision of aState. Why would that be included at all if the authorityof a State is to be read, as petitioners would have it, toalways include within it the authority of a politicalsubdivision.QUESTION: Their -- their answer is that -- that th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC when you speak of the regulatory authority of a State,that naturally connotes the authority to -- to delegatethat to -- to municipalities. But when you speak of theauthority of a State to enact or enforce a law, that --that much less naturally includes the authority of amunicipality to enact or enforce a law so that -- and allof those other references are in connection with thatphrase, to enact or enforce a law. Are they not?MR. CORDRAY: Two reasons why that does notwork, Your Honor. They agreed that the subsections of(c)()(A) have to be read in parallel and the second onewith respect to size and weight and the like. It doesn'tsay anything about regulatory authority. It just saysauthority of a State. Second, in the preemption clause itself --QUESTION: Wait, wait. I --I missed that. MR. CORDRAY: Well, regulatory authority is thephrase used in the first subclause --QUESTION: Right.MR. CORDRAY: -- of (c)()(A) related to safety.QUESTION: Yes. MR. CORDRAY: But they're not talking aboutauthority to regulate. They're just talking aboutauthority of a State with respect to the size and weight,hazardous cargo, and then with respect to insurance. And th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC insurance is an excellent example I'll get to in a moment.But also in the preemption clause itself,(c)(), it refers to the authority of a State to enact orenforce a law or regulation. That is regulatoryauthority, and it distinguishes it full stop from theauthority of a political subdivision of a State to do thesame thing. What? Enact or enforce a regulation. So,the regulatory authority is being discussed specificallyin the preemption clause itself.That's the fallacy of starting the analysis hereby jumping all the way to (c)()(A) and wrenching thattext out of context and divorcing it from the preemptionclause that it's meant to be a savings subordinate to. But the preemption clause itself --QUESTION: No, but (c)() uses may enact orenforce just as -- as (c)()(C) does, whereas (c)()(A)does not. The to enact or enforce language applies inevery subsection except the one that we're arguing about.MR. CORDRAY: That's correct, which is a tellingpoint. In every subsection, Congress went out of its wayto add political subdivision of a State. I've still notheard a single sensible explanation for why they wouldbother to do that. QUESTION: Well, if -- but if you didn't add thepolitical subdivision in those States and if you had a th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC home rule State, then a local government could -- wouldnot be affected by it. MR. CORDRAY: No, not correct because theirnotion is that State includes delegating to its localgovernment as a delegated power from the State. They wantto read the two as being encompassed within one another.QUESTION: When you described the regulatory --regulatory authority in gross as you do in ()(A), then itwould apply to the authority to delegate. But when you'retalking about authority to enact or enforce, then you haveto identify the entities that do the enacting and theenforcing. It seems to me that's a perfectly logicaldistinction. MR. CORDRAY: Well, I don't believe it is, YourHonor. And again, there's nothing about regulatoryauthority that is unique in this statute because (c)()(A)does refer to regulatory authority with respect to safety,but it doesn't refer to regulatory authority withrespect --QUESTION: Well, don't you agree that if youdidn't have all the other subdivisions in here, that wouldbe the normal reading of regulatory authority, which wouldinclude the authority to delegate?MR. CORDRAY: I would agree that if (c)()(A)alone were the statute -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: Correct. MR. CORDRAY: -- that would be a sensiblereading. But if you -- that -- that's taking it out of acontext where Congress specifically is dealing with aState and a political subdivision regularly in the statuteand then in one instance a special kind --QUESTION: Yes, but in one -- but in oneprovision, they say regulatory authority, which has aplain meaning that you'd be -- brings a result youdisagree with. In the other they consistently useauthority of a State or a political subdivision to enactor enforce. MR. CORDRAY: But it doesn't --QUESTION: If you don't refer to politicalsubdivision, it just wouldn't include it. MR. CORDRAY: It doesn't have a plain meaning. It doesn't really have any meaning because in thepreemption clause itself, they're referring to theauthority of a State to regulate, and they're separatelyreferring to the authority of --QUESTION: No. It says a State or a politicalsubdivision may not enact or enforce. That's the languageof the preemption clause.MR. CORDRAY: Correct. That's right. Enact orenforce what? A regulation, which is the same thing as to th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC regulate. QUESTION: (c)()(A) at the bottom of page A-in the same sentence uses this shall not restrict thesafety regulatory a State -- authority of a State withrespect -- or the authority of a State. They don't usethe adjective regulatory even in the second clause.MR. CORDRAY: That was my point. I was tryingto make it earlier. I -- I didn't make it as clearly asyou just did. But that's exactly --QUESTION: Well, obviously, I -- I missed it, sosay it again. (Laughter.) MR. CORDRAY: Well, that's exactly right. Trying to give some special meaning --QUESTION: Where? What -- what section are youtalking about?MR. CORDRAY: We're talking about (c)()(A).QUESTION: At the bottom of page A-. MR. CORDRAY: This is a point I tried to makeearlier and I did not make it as clearly as the ChiefJustice just did. QUESTION: I didn't get it. MR. CORDRAY: But they're attempting to givesome special meaning to the phrase safety regulatoryauthority, but by their own argument, that can't follow th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC because they want to -- they have to read all theseprovisions the same way. And the second subclause thererefers --QUESTION: The authority of a State.MR. CORDRAY: -- to the authority of a State,nothing about safety, nothing about regulatory, and has tobe read in the same fashion. I would also point out that the third subclausethere, which relates to insurance requirements, they wouldbe saying that municipalities are free to impose their owninsurance requirements upon motor carriers of property. So, FedEx, UPS in different municipalities would have tomeet different insurance requirements. They'd have to dodifferent kinds of filings and have very different kindsof --QUESTION: You're too fast for me. Where is theinsurance requirement? QUESTION: At the very end of that provision.MR. CORDRAY: It's the third subclause in()(A).QUESTION: ()(A).QUESTION: Oh, in -- in ()(A), okay.MR. CORDRAY: And that is completely at oddswith the statute because in , which this Court isgoing to take up in a case called Yellow Freight next th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC term, it says specifically there -- Congress said even registrations by motor carriers of property in differentStates for insurance purposes is too many for our taste. We think there should only be one, and they said thesingle State --QUESTION: Well, what about the middle one? What about the middle one? It says, the authority of aState to impose highway limitations.MR. CORDRAY: Yes.QUESTION: Now, I can't figure out, for the lifeof me, how -- why Congress would have wanted to say theState can impose limitations on the use of highways, butthe city cannot impose limitations on the use of streets.But your reading would lead to that.MR. CORDRAY: That would be one respect, YourHonor, in which either -- if it was a general trafficregulation, then it would not be preempted at all. Or ifit were preempted, it would have to be done at the Statelevel and it could be done by the --QUESTION: I thought part of your argument wasalso that streets are not highways, and I'm surprised youdidn't make that point when we were talking about the --you know, no trucks on a school street or something likethat. Isn't the term highways arguably different from --from local residential neighborhood streets? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. CORDRAY: Arguably it could be, but Ibelieve for purposes of title , it's a defined term toinclude streets. But our point there was that it'sperfectly sensible for Congress to say that the Statesshall deal with these issues, but not the municipality.QUESTION: And you found not a word -- am Iright? There is not a word in the history of this --although there was some human being who wrote these words,there is not a word in any document, hearing, report,debate that casts any light on this one way or the other.MR. CORDRAY: One way or the other. But again,traffic regulations --QUESTION: Is that right? MR. CORDRAY: -- generally are not within thepreemption clause.QUESTION: No, no. I'm just trying to -- it'smysterious to me.MR. CORDRAY: Yes. The legislative historyhere --QUESTION: And I'm having trouble, and thereforeI -- I just sometimes look at the legislative history --MR. CORDRAY: Yes, I understand. QUESTION: -- to try to figure it out. And youhaven't found anything, nor does the other --MR. CORDRAY: The legislative history here is th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC confused and somewhat unilluminating. QUESTION: I guess we'll have to use thestatute. (Laughter.) QUESTION: Mr. Cordray, is there -- is there anexample -- any other example of a Federal statute -- Imean, it is unusual to say, States, you can no longerdecide how your authority is going to be exercised. Anordinary mode of a State exercising its authority is todelegate it to localities. Apart from this statute, isthere any other Federal statute that says, State, you maydo it but you may not delegate it to a regional or localor municipal unit?MR. CORDRAY: There are two responses to thatquestion. The first is the example that was already givenwhich is when the Federal Government puts a grant to amunicipality full stop and doesn't allow the State tocontrol the use of that grant, that's an example likethis.But the other point I would make is throughoutits history, Congress has --QUESTION: Well, that's a State -- that's --that's --MR. CORDRAY: May I --QUESTION: -- Congress giving money to a th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC municipality. I asked an instance in which Congress says,State, you may do it but you, State, may not delegate.MR. CORDRAY: I know of none, but this is a newdeparture for Congress. They have always taken freemarkets and sought to regulate them. Here they're takinga market they had regulated and the States and localitieshad regulated and they're now trying to deregulate it.That's a new development and it calls for new measures. And the measure here was to try to clear away all thisunderbrush of -- of State and local restriction --QUESTION: Since it was -- since you say it'ssingular and this is new, wouldn't you expect Congress tomake a clear statement that the State may not delegatethis authority because --MR. CORDRAY: Congress did make a clearstatement by including the term, political subdivision,whenever it wanted political subdivisions to either haveauthority or be restricted in that authority, and thenspecifically speaking only to States here. There couldnot be a clearer statement of that. Why else ever use theterm, political subdivision? That is unexplained.QUESTION: And the State may not delegate thisauthority to a political subdivision. Just as simple asthat, to negate what has been the assumption all along.MR. CORDRAY: They could have used the term th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC State everywhere alone and then said, State but notpolitical subdivision, here. Or they could this term,State and political subdivision, everywhere and omit theterm, political subdivision, here. Those are the samemeaning and they're the same purpose. And again, canons of construction have beendenigrated in this case, but they have to do with thenatural and ordinary reading of statutes. The baselinethat Congress uses to draft laws in some confidence thatthe executive branch and the courts will interpret them asCongress meant them, and that's exactly what's --QUESTION: The executive branch. Now, you -- Iknow you have said, and I quite agree, that the Departmentof Transportation has no supervisory authority, it has noChevron deference. But doesn't it deserve some respectfrom the courts simply because it has familiarity with thearea of motor carrier regulation that the courts don't? MR. CORDRAY: That's a -- that's a statement Icouldn't disagree with more strongly. The SolicitorGeneral here has conceded they have no authority toadminister this statute. The notion that you have a --QUESTION: They've not conceded the Departmentof Transportation -- you -- deserves no respect. MR. CORDRAY: The -- the notion that aderegulatory statute that took governmental entities out th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC of an area to create a free market would now be subject toumpiring by the Federal agency, in terms of the scope ofpreemption, which is an issue this Court has always saidis for the courts to determine --QUESTION: I didn't say umpiring. I said itsviews on the proper construction of this statute. Whatweight, if any, should this Court give to the Departmentof Transportation's view, this is what the statute means? Not as an umpire, not as a referee.MR. CORDRAY: Their construction is to leavethem as an umpire. But I would say certainly not Chevrondeference. At most some sort of Skidmore respect, butthat's only entitled where there's some sort of reason tothink that before they got to their litigation positionhere, which has migrated in the course of this case -- itstarted off as an argument about repeal by implication. It's now turned into argument about sort of readingstatutes together to import them into this statute -- isentitled to really, I think, no respect here because it isnot persuasive. They have not analyzed the statute indetail --QUESTION: Well, if -- if you lose, you know --MR. CORDRAY: -- in any of their prior --QUESTION: If you're changing your argument --you know, if you lost in the lower court, you'd probably th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC be well advised to change your argument. (Laughter.) MR. CORDRAY: I wouldn't disagree with that,Your Honor. But again --QUESTION: Mr. Cordray, what -- what about thepoint made that if -- if you accept your interpretation,municipalities not only would not be able to enactregulations themselves, they would not be able to enforceregulations adopted by the -- by the State, which would bea great inconvenience, that the only enforcement can be bythe State police and not by local -- local police.MR. CORDRAY: We agree, but that's not what thispreemption clause is about or any preemption clause isever about. When they say enact or enforce here, theydon't use it in the terms of making law and executing thelaw. They use it in the -- in the sense of enacting newlaw or applying -- or enforcing and applying preexistinglaw.And the point of this preemption clause is tosay that municipalities do not have the authority to actin this realm by imposing their own public policies. It'sa matter of either new law or preexisting law. That's thestructure of many of these preemption statutes the Courthas dealt with.QUESTION: If we think this statute is -- that th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC there are arguments either way for interpreting it,shouldn't we pay heed to the petitioners' point that it'sa very serious matter for the Congress of the UnitedStates to tell States how they should govern themselves?MR. CORDRAY: We think the language of thestatute is clear here, Your Honor. They explicitlyextinguished the power of the municipality --QUESTION: Let's -- let's say we -- we disagreewith that. Is -- is that not -- let's say we find thestatute in -- in equipoise, or the arguments. Should wenot give force to the argument petitioner makes that theStates should be presumed to have the authority todetermine how best to govern themselves?MR. CORDRAY: No. There's no substantive TenthAmendment issue here. There's no commandeering of Statesor local governments to enact some sort of program. Thisis the same as the Court in Wolens where they said thisstatute must be read to say the State cannot legislate inthis area, but they can enforce contracts through theircourts. There's no Tenth Amendment problem with that. That's Congress exercising its power under the SupremacyClause, anything in the laws or constitution of the Statesnotwithstanding.And as the Solicitor General said in the briefin the Mortier case, the notion that when Congress decided th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC that there could be State regulation but they had topreempt local regulation, that they would somehow have tobe forced to preempt State regulation as well, simplyturns the Tenth Amendment on its head. So, we don't thinkthat there's any -- any serious constitutional issue here.QUESTION: It seems to me your argument boilsdown to the point that there are provisions in thestatute. Nine of them are perfectly clear. The tenthsays the same thing, but we're not going to read it theway it seems to read because it's not as clear as theother nine. MR. CORDRAY: No, that's not what it boils down.QUESTION: That's about all it amounts to.MR. CORDRAY: It boils down to the fact thatCongress deliberately inserted a phrase here, politicalsubdivision of a State, so that it can preempt --QUESTION: In the -- in the nine, right.MR. CORDRAY: And -- and it --QUESTION: If you just read the one all byitself, it's perfectly clear too. MR. CORDRAY: Well, it's -- it is clear, Ibelieve, because it's clear because they said a Statecannot -- a political subdivision cannot --QUESTION: But the only reason --MR. CORDRAY: -- and they state the authority of th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC a State to do certain things.QUESTION: The only support you have is they'renot as detailed and specific in the one in question asthey are in the other nine.MR. CORDRAY: No. I think it is equallydetailed and specific. And -- and there's no rationalefor Congress legislating in this way or drafting thislanguage or enacting it unless they intended to make adifference. That's -- that's the whole purpose ofincluding that language. QUESTION: Your support is the context of thestatute, which --MR. CORDRAY: No. Text and context. Text andcontext. That's correct. QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. Cordray. Mr. Sutton, you have minutes remaining.REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF JEFFREY S. SUTTONON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERSMR. SUTTON: I'd like to respond to a few of thepoints --QUESTION: Mr. Sutton, could you ask one --answer one factual question for me? Your -- your brothermade the argument that in -- in reading (c)()(A), he wentto the last clause and said on your theory every politicalsubdivision could enact its own financial responsibility th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC and insurance laws and so on.MR. SUTTON: Yes. QUESTION: And that would be a crazy scheme. My-- my question is, is there in fact any history ofmunicipalities enacting these kinds of statutes so thatit's something that might have been in Congress's mind?MR. SUTTON: No, Your Honor, not in -- in theinsurance area. But there's a -- I think a better answerto that concern, and the better answer is, our point isthat (c)()(A) incorporates all of these preexistingpreemption provisions. They are preemption provisions inother parts of title , whether it's insurance, safety,size and weight routing, or hazardous material routing.So, the problem with Justice O'Connor's point ofpractical consequences -- in reversing the Sixth Circuit,there is no gap here. Why? Because for years,Congress and the Department of Transportation have beenregulating these very areas, both with respect to Statelaws and city laws, to the extent they've been enacted. So, the multiplicity of insurance regulations is a falseconcern. I mean, the -- Congress has already indicated in and what the rules are there. The Department ofTransportation has implemented regulations that do getChevron deference, and they lay out what the rules are.QUESTION: The same problem, you didn't, is -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC to me anyway, is -- is ()(A). Do you see what I'mthinking? I mean, the same human being at the same timewrote the words in -- in (c)()(A) and he used the wordState, and at precisely the same time, he wrote the secondexception, which is ()(A) --MR. SUTTON: Right. QUESTION: -- and he put in politicalsubdivision. And what I cannot get over is I don't seehow a single human being on the same day at the same timecould write two exceptions, use the word "State" in oneand use the word "political subdivision" in the other,without meaning a difference. MR. SUTTON: Right. Your Honor, look -- compare()(A) to (c)(). They follow the exact same enact orenforce language. (c)()(A) does not use the enact orenforce language. QUESTION: That's the answer. MR. SUTTON: That's the answer, number one.Number two, remember, (c)() is for the benefitof motor carriers. They want to make sure they could havethese rules, whether city or State, apply to them on acity-by-city not State-by-State basis. Now, the -- the regulatory purpose, Your Honor-- the landmark legislation in this area was the lawthat deregulated interstate commerce. Everyone agrees th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC that did not divest cities of authority. The law at issue here was about intrastatecommerce, primarily to put FedEx and UPS on a levelplaying field, and suddenly respondents are saying thatderegulated -- regulatory purpose required the divestmentof local authority? QUESTION: Well, what's -- what's Congress'sauthority to regulate intrastate commerce?MR. SUTTON: It's at its outer edges, and thatto me is what is so odd about this particularinterpretation. They're saying in the intrastate area,you could divest States of their authority to delegate,but they've not done it in the interstate area? I mean,how absurd is that? It's -- it's got it exactlybackwards.Now, the practical consequences -- I want to goback to again -- of their interpretation. (c)()(A),they've agreed, has to be construed the same waythroughout, and there are countless -- as we indicated inour opening brief, every State in the country hasdelegations to cities that have size and weight controls,size and weight rules that would be eliminated by thisparticular construction. Thank you. CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: Thank you, Mr. Sutton. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC The case is submitted.(Whereupon, at : a.m., the case in theabove-entitled matter was submitted.) th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC A ability :, : able : : :, about : : : :, :, :, : : : : : : :, : : : : :,, : : : :, :, :,, :, :,, : :, above-entitled : : Absolutely :, : : absurd : accept : : :, : accepted : accompanying : accomplished : account : act :,,, : : : : acts : Actually : add :, address : : addressed : : : adjective : adjudicated : administer : administering : administers :, administration :, : administrative : : administrator : adopted : adopts : advised : affect : affected : : affecting : affects : after :, : : : again : : : : : : : : : : agencies : : agency : : :, : agree : : :, : : agreed : : : agreement : agrees : AL :, allow : allowed : allowing : allows : alone : : : along : already : : although :, : : altogether : always : : : : : : ambiguity :, ambiguous : amended : amendment : :, : American : amicus : : : among : amount : amounts : analysis : analyzed : another : : : : : answer : : : :, : : : :, :, answered : ante : anything : : : : : anyway : apart : : apparently : appeals : : : : APPEARANCES : appears : : appendix :, : : applies : : : apply :,, : : : : applying :, appreciate : appropriately : April : area : : :, : : : : : : : : : areas :, : : : arguably : : arguing : : : argument : :, :, :, :,, :,,, : : : : : :,, : : : :, arguments :, around : : : arterial : asked : : : : asking :, assistance :, Assistant : assume :, assuming : assumption : attempted : attempting : : : authority : :,,, : :, :, :, : : : : :, :,, :,,, : : : : :, : : :, :,,,, :,,, :,,, :,, :,,,, :,,, :,, :, : :, : :,, :, : : : :,,, authorized : authorizes : aware :, : away : A- : : :, :, A- : : a.m : : : B back : : : : : : : backwards : : based : : : baseline : basis : becomes : before : : : beg : behalf :,, :,,, : : : : behavior : being : :, : : : : :, believe : : : : :, : : : : below :, :, beltway : benefit : best :, : better :, between : : : : : :, : : : : : : : bigger :, blah :,,, blue : bodies : : boils :,, books : borders : Boston : both : bother : : bottom :, branch : :, bridge : bridges : th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC brief :, : : : : : bring : brings : broad : : broader : broker : brother : business : businesses : C c : :, :, : : :,, : :,,,,,,,, :, :,,,, : :, : : :, : : :, : :,, : :, : :,,,, :, :, : : :,,, : California : called : calls : came : canons : care : careful : : carefully : : cargo :, : carrier :, : : : :,, : : : carriers : : : : : :, :, :, :,,, :,,, :,,, :, : : : : carry :, carrying : cars : : case : :, : : : : :, : : :, : : : : : : : : : :, cases : casts : certain : :, : : certainly : :, : : : change :, : changed : changing : chapter : characterized : charge : Chevron : : : Chief :, : : : : choose : : chose : Circuit : : cite : cited :, : cities : :, :, : : : : :, :, city :, : :, : :, : :, : :, : : : : : city-by-city : clarify : clause :,, : : : : :,,, :, : : :,, : : cleanup : clear : : : : : : :,, : :,,,, clearer : clearly :, closest : code : : coincidence : Columbus :, : : : : : : : Columbus's : come : :,, comes : : : commandeering : comment : commerce : :, : : :, commercial : : companies : compare : comparison : completely : component : conceded :, concern :, concerned : conference : confidence : confused : Congress :,, :,,, : : :, :, : :, : : : : : :, : : : : : : :, : :, :,,, :, :,, : : :, congressional : Congress's : : : connection : : : : connotes : consequences : : consistently : constitution : constitutional : constitutionally : constitutions : construction : :, : construed : : : construing : contain : contemplated : contemplates : context :, : :, : : :,, contextual : continue : contracts : contrary : : control : : controls : : controversy : convince : Cordray : : :,,,, : :, :,, :,, :, :,,, :,,, :,,, :,, :,, : :, : :,,, : :,, :,,, : :,,, :,, :, :,,,,, :,, : :, :, :, :, : :, :,,,, :,, corporate : correct : :, : : : : :, : costs : countless : country : : country's : couple : course : : :, : : : court :, : : : : : : :, : :,,, : : : : : : :,, : : courts : :,, : : Court's : covered :, : craw : crazy : create : : : : : creating : curiae : : : D D : dangerous : day : Deadwood : deal : th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC elsewhere : : : : embraced : empower : enact : : : : : :, : :,, :,,, : :,, :, : : :, enacted : :, : enacting : : : : : : encompass : : encompassed : encompassing : end :,, : enforce : : : :, :, : :,,, : :,, :, : :, enforced :, enforcement : enforcing : : enough : : ensure : : entirety : entities : : entitled :, entrusted :, equally : equipoise : ERISA : ESQ :,, :,,, established : establishing : ET :, even : : : : : : :, : : : eventually : ever :, : : every : : : : : :, : : everyone : : : : everything : everywhere :, ex : exact : : exactly : :, : : : :, : : examine : example :, : :, : : : : :,,, dealing :, : : : : : : dealt : : debate : debates : decide : : decided : deciding : decision : : : : : :, : decisions : declare : deep : deference : : : define : defined :,, : : : definition : : definitions :,, delegate : :, : : : :, : : : : : : :, :, :,, : delegated : : delegating : : : : delegation :, : : delegations : deliberately : delivery : denigrated : densely : department : : :, : : : : : :, : :, departure : deregulate :, : deregulated : : deregulating :, : deregulation : deregulatory : : : : described : deserve : deserves : designed : desire : detail : : detailed :, determination : determine : : : : determined : determining : developed : development : difference : : : differences : different : : : : : : : :,,, :, difficult : Dillingham : diminished : direct : directed : :, : : directly : : disagree : : : : : discontent : discussed : disruption : distinction : : : distinguish : : : distinguished : distinguishes : divert : diverting :, divest :, divested : divesting : divestment : divide : divided : division : : : : divorced : divorcing : document : doing : :, done : :,, :, : DOT : down : : : :,, draft : drafting : drawing : driver : driver's : driving : dynamite : D.C :, E E : :, each : earlier : : : : : : : :, easier : economic :, : :, : : :, economics : economy : edges : effect : : : : : effects : : effort : efforts : either :, : :, : : : : eliminate : eliminated : :, : examples : excellent : except : : exception : : exceptions : excluding : Excuse :, : executing : th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC executive : :, exempted : exemption : exercised : : : exercising : : expect : : expected : explain : explained : explanation : : explicitly : express : expresses : expression : extent : : : : : extinguished : extraordinary : F fact : : : : : : : : : : factual : fair : fairly :, : fall : fallacy : false : familiarity : fashion : fast : feature : Federal : : :,, : : :,,,, : : : :,, : federally : FedEx : : few : field : figure : : : filings : financial : find : first : : : : : : : : fix : : flooded : follow : : : follows : force : : forced : form :, forth : : : forwarder : found :, framework : Francisco : free : : :, :,, : : : free-form : freight : : frequently : from : : : :,, : : : :, : :,, : :, : :, : : full : : : functions : funding : funds : further : :, G G : gap : Garage : : gave : : general : : : : : : : :, :,, :,, : : : : generally : : : genuine : geography : getting : give : : : : : : : :, : : given : : giving : go : : : : : : :, : :, : goes : : going : : : : : : : : : good : : goods : govern :, government : :, : : : : governmental : : governments : : : : government's : grammatically : grant :, grants : : great : : greater : gross : ground : : Grove : guess : : : H hand : : : happened : happens : hardly : having : : : hazardous : :, : : : head : hear : : : heard : hearing : heavily :, : heavy : : heed : held :, :, help : helpful : : highway : : highways :,, hire : : historical : history : : :,,, : : holding : home : : Honor : : :, : : :, :, : : : : : : : : : : : :, hoop : hope : : : hour : hours : human : :, hypothetical : I ICC :, : :,, : idea : identical : identified : identify : ignore : : illogical : imagine : impact :, : impede : impediments : impeding : : implementation : implemented : implication : import : important : : : imported : impose : : : :,, imposing : : : impression : : Inc : : include : : : : : th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC included : : includes :,, : : : : including : :, : : : : : inclusion : inconvenience : incorporated : incorporates : indeed :, independent : indicated : : indicates : indication : indicator : individual : industry : inefficiencies : inference : inserted : inspected : instance : : : : : instances :, insurance : : :,,, : :,,, integral : : intended : : intent : interfere : : interfering : interpret : : interpretation : : : : : : : :, interpreted :,, interpreting : interstate : :, : : : intervened : intrastate : :,, isolation : issue : : :, : : : : : : issues :, : : item : J JEFFREY : :, : : job : judgment : jumping : just : : : : : : :, :, :,, : : :, : : :, :, : : Justice : :, : : : : : : : : : K keep : : Kennedy : key : : kind :,, : : kinds :, : know : : : : :, : : : : : : : L L : : : labeled : lack : landmark : language :, : : : : : : : :, :, large :, larger : :,, last : : later : : Laughter : : : : : law : : :,, :,,, :, :,, : : : : : : : : :, : : :,,,,, : : laws : : : : :, :, : : :,,, : : :,, lay : lead : least : leave : : Lee : left : : : legislate : legislating : legislation : : legislative : : :,, legislature : : : : legislatures : legislature's : length : less : : : : let : : : let's : :,, level : :, : :, :, : : : : license : : licensing : :, : : : : : : : life : light : like : :, : : :, : : : : : : : limit :, :, :, limitations :,, :,, limited : limitless : limits : lines : litigant : litigation : little :, : local : : : : : : :,, :, : : : : :, : : : :, : : : localities : : locality : : logical : long : longer : : look : :, : : : : : looking : : lose : lost : lot : : lots :, : : lower : : M made : : : : : : main : make : : : : : : :, : : :, :, : : :, : : makes : : : making : : : : MALCOLM : : : manner : many : : :, : : market :, : : :, : : markets : material : materials : : matter : :, : : :, :, : : : : matters : : : :,, :, : may :, : : : : : : : : : :,, :,,, maybe : :, mean : : : : :, : : : : :, : : : : meaning :, : :,, :, : : th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC means : : meant : : : measure : measures : meet : mention : : mentioned : : : : mentions : middle : :, might : : : : : migrated : miles : million : mind : : : minutes : misremembering : missed : : mitigate : mode : modified : modifies : modify :, moment : : : money : : Morales : more : : : : : Mortier : most : : : : : : motor : : : :,, : : :, :, :, : :,,,,,,,, :,, : :,,,,, : : : : : : : moving : much : : : :, : multiplicity : municipal :, : :, : : :, : municipalities : : :, :,, : : : : :, : : :, : : : municipality : : : : : : : : : must : myself : mysterious : N N :, : namely : narrow : narrowly : nationwide :, natural : : naturally : : : :, nature : near : necessarily : necessary : need : : needed : : needs : negate : negative : neighborhood : : : : neighborhoods : neither : nevertheless : new :, :, : :,,, :, next : nightmare : : nine :,, : none : : nonetheless : nonuniform : normal : : notably : nothing : : : :, notion : : :, : notwithstanding : number :, :, O O : : obey : obeyed : oblique : obviously : : : : : odd : : : odds : off : of(c)() : Oh : : Ohio :, :, :, : Ohio's : okay : : : old : omit : once : one : : : : :, : : : : : : : : : :,, :,, : :, : :,, :, one-way : : only :, : : : : :, : : :, : : : : :, : : open : : : opening : operation : operative : opposed : option : oral : : : : : order : : ordinance :, : ordinances : : : ordinary : : : original : other : : : : : :,, :, :, : : :, :, :,,, : :, : : : : : : : : : :,, : :, : : : : out : : : : : : : :, : : : : : : outer : over : : :, : : : :, :,, : oversize :, overturn : own : : : :, : : : : O'Connor's : O'Gilve : P P : package :, page : : : :, :, parallel : parallelism : parcel : pardon : park : part : : : : : particular :, : :, : :,,, : : : : :, particularly : parts : : : passengers : pattern :, pay : : people : : : per : perfect : perfectly : : :, perhaps : : permissible :, :, permitted : : : persons :, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC persuasive : petitioner : petitioners :,, :,, : : : : : : : phrase : :, : :, : :, : : phrasing : piece : place : plain :, playground : : playing : please : : point :, :, :, : : :, :, : : :, : : : : : :, : : : : :, : : :, pointing : points : : police : : :, policies : policy : political : :,,,, :, : :,,,,, : : : : :, :,,, :, : :, : : : :, :,, :,,, :,,, :,, :, : :, populated :,, populations :, position : : : possible : potential : power : : :,, : : : :, :, : : : : powers : : : : practical : :, : : practice : preceded : precisely : preempt : : : :,, preempted : :,, : : : :,, :,, : : : : : : :, preempting : preemption : : :, : : :,, : : :, :, :, : : : :,, :, preempts : : preexisting : : :, : presented : preservation : preserve : : : : preserved : : : preserves : preserving : presumably : presumed : prevail : : price : : :, : : :, :, : : : prices : : : : primarily : prior : : : private : :, probably : problem : : : : :, problems : processes : proficiency : program : :, : prohibition : proper : : property : : : : : : :, :,,,,,, :,, :,, :,, : : : : : proposition : provided : provision :, : : :, : : : :, : : : : : provisions : :,, :,, : :, : :,,, : :, :,, : : : :, public : : purely : purpose : : : : : purposes : : : pursuant : put : : : : : puts : Q qualification : question : : :, :,,, : :,, : :,,, : :,, :,, :, :,, :, :,,, : : : :,, :, :, : :,, :,, :,,,, :,,,, :,,, :, :,, : :,,, :,, : :,,, :,, :,,, : :,,, :,, : :,, :, :, :, :, :,,,, :, :,, :,, :,, :, :,,,, :, :, :,, :, : :,,,, :,,,,, :,, :, : questioning : questions : quite : : : : quote : : quoted : R R : rain : raised : rates : rather : rationale : : rationally : reach : read :, : : : : : : : : : :, : :,, reading : : : :, : : : : : : : : reads : : realistically :, really : : : realm : reason : : : :, : : : reasons : : rebuttal : : : recognized : recognizing : refer :, : referee : reference : : : : : referenced : references : : referring : : :, refers : : : : regard : regarded : regime : : regional : regions :, registrations : regularly : regulate : :,, :, : : : : : : : : : regulated :, :, :, : : :, regulating : : th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC regulation : : :, : : : : :,, :, : : : : :, : : :,, :, : :, : : : : :, regulations : : : : : :, :, : :, :, regulatory :,,, : : : : :, : :, : :,, :, :,,,, : : :,, : : : REHNQUIST : : reinventing : relate : related : : : :, : result : return : reverse : reversing : review : RICHARD : : : rid : right :,, : : :, : :,, : : :, : : : : :, : :, rights : : road : : roads :, route : : : :, : : :, :, : : routes : :,,, : : : : : : routing :, : :,, : :, rule : : : :,, : rules : : :, : : rural : Russello : RVs : relates :, : : relation : relationship : : relevant : : : remain : remaining : remand : remember : repeal : repeatedly : repeats : report : : reprinted : require : required : requirement : requirements :,, residential : : : : respect : :, : :,, :,, :,, :,, :, : : :, : : : respond : respondents : : : : : :,, : : responds : : response : responses : : responsibilities :, responsibility : : rest : : restrict : : :, : restricted : restriction : :, : : restrictions :, : : : : rests :, S S : :,, :, : Sacramento : safety : :,, : :,, : :,,, :,,,,, :, : :, : :, : :, : : : :,,,, :, :, :, : : : :,, : : : : :, : : same : : :, : : : : : : : : : : : : :, :, : : : :,,,,, : San : save : savings : saw : saying : :,, :,, :,, : :, : :, says : :, : : : : : : : : : : : :, : : : Scalia : : : scheme : : :, : : : : : : : schemes : : : : school : : scope : second : :, : : : section :, : : : : : see : : : :, seeing : seems : : : : : : : :, seen : segments : self-government : send : sense : : : : sensible : : : sentence : separate :, : separately : separations : serious : : service : : : :, : :, :, : : services : : : : : : : set : : setting : seven : shifting : show : shows : side : : : sight : sign : signs : : similar : : similarly : simple : : simply : : : :, : : : :, : : since :, single : :, : : : : singular : situation : situations : : Sixth : : size : : : : : : :, : :, Skidmore : small : Solicitor : : : some : : : : : : : : :, :, : somehow : something : : : : : : : : : :, : : sometimes : th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC somewhat : : somewhere : sorry : sort : :,, : sorts : sought : speak :, speaking : : speaks : special : :, specific :,,, : : : :, specifically :, :, :, : : : : : :, : : : : : :,, : :, : : : : : : specified : specifies : speed :, : :, speeding : start : : : started : starting : state :,,,,,, :,, : :,,,,,,, : : :,, :,,,,, : : : :,,,,,,, :,, :,,,, : :,,, :, :,,, :, : :,, : : :,,,, : :, : :, :,,, :, : : :,,, :,, :, : :,,, :,, :, :,,, :,,, :, :,, :,, :, : :,,,, : : :, : : statement :,, : States :,, : :, :,, : : : :, : : : : : :, :, : : :, : : : : :, :,,,, : State's : : : : State-by-State : statute :, : : :,, : : :,, : :, : :, : : : : :,, :,, :, : :, :, : : :, :, :, :,,, : :,, : : statutes : : : : : statutory : : :,, step : : Stewart : : :,, : : :, :,,, :, : : :,, : sticking : still : : stop : : storm : street : : :, :, :,, : : streets :,, :,, : stress : stretch : strictly : : strike : stronger : strongly : structure : : stuck : stuff : : style : subclause : :,, subdivision :,,, :,, : : : :, : : :, :,, :, :, :,, :,, : : : :, subdivisions : : :,, :, : : : : :, : : : : : subject : submit : submitted :, subordinate : : : subsection : : : : :, subsections : substantive : suddenly : : sufficiently : suggested : suggesting : suggestion : : : suitable : superseded : supervisory : support : :, supported : supporting : : : suppose : : : Supposing : : Supremacy : Supreme :, sure : : : surplusage : surprised : : surprisingly : Sutton : :, :,, :, : :, :,,,, :,, :, :,, : :,, :, :, :,, :, : :,,, : :, : :, :,,, :, :,, :, Sutton's : T T :, take : : : : : taken : taking : : talk : talking : : : :, :, : :, : talks : tangentially : tangle : taste : tax : : tell : : telling : : tenth :, :, term :, : : :, : :,, :, terms : : :, : : tested : text : : :, Thank : : : : :, their :, :, : : : :, : : : :,, :, : :, :, : :,, : : : : :, : : :, themselves : :, theory : thereof : They'd : thing : : : :, : : : : : things : : : think : :,, :,, : : : : : :, : :, : :, : : :, : : : :, : : : : : thinking : :, : thinks : third :, :, though : thought : : : three : through : : : : : :, : : throughout : : : : time : : : : : th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC : :,, times : title : : :, :, : : :,, :, : : : : : together : : : Toledo : tons : : : top : topic :, topography : tort : toto : tow : :,,, : : : : town : tracks : tradition : traditional : : :, : traditionally : : traditions : traffic :, : :,, :,,, : :, : : : transportation : :, : : :, : : : : :, :,,, :, :, :, Transportation's : tried : trouble : truck : : : : : : : : : truckers : trucking : :, : : : trucks :,, : : :, : :, :,, : : :, : : : true : :, : truth : try : : : : trying :,, : : : :, : : Tuesday : turned : turns : two :, : : : : : :, type : types : typically : U umpire :, umpiring :, unchanged : uncovered : under : : : : :, : : :, : underbrush : undercutting : understand : : : : : :, : understanding : undertake : undo : : unexplained : unfettered : uniform : : uniformity : unilluminating : unique : unit : : United :,, : : : units : : unless : : unsafe : unusual : : : UPS : : urge : use : : : : : : : : :, :, : :, :,, used : : : : uses : : : : V v : : vacations : various : : vehicle :, : : vehicles :,, very : : : : : : : :,, : : : :, :, : : veto : view : : : : views : W wait :, want :,,, : : : : :, : : :, : : : : : wanted : : : : : : wants : : Washington :, way : : : : : : : : :, : : : :, : : : : ways : weak : weight : : : :, :, : : :, well : :, : :, : : : : : : : : : : :, : : : : : :, :, : : : : : : : went : : were : : : : : : :, : :, we'll : : : :, : : we're :,, :,,, : :, :, : : : : : : we've : while : whole : : : : wiped : wished : wishes : Wolens : word :, : : : :, : :,, words :, : : : work : works : worried : worry : wouldn't :, :, : : : : : : Wrecker : : wrenching : write : wrote : :, X Y Z $ X :, : Y : year : years : Yellow : York :, zone : $ : - : : th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC : :,,, : :, :, : :, : : : : : : : : : : : (a) : (c)()(A) : : -mile : : : : : : : : : :,, : : : : :, : : :, : : :, :,, :,, :,, :,,, : :, : : : : : :, : : : : :,, :,, : : :,, : : : : : : : : : :,,, -and-a-half : : : : : , : : : : :, :, : : :,, :, : : : : : : : : : th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC 