 IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XUNITED STATES, ET AL., Petitioners ::v. : No. -THOMAS LAMAR BEAN :- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XWashington, D.C.Wednesday, October , The above-entitled matter came on for oralargument before the Supreme Court of the United States at: a.m.APPEARANCES:EDWIN S. KNEEDLER, ESQ., Deputy Solicitor General,Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on behalf ofthe Petitioners.THOMAS C. GOLDSTEIN, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf ofthe Respondent. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC C O N T E N T SORAL ARGUMENT OF EDWIN S. KNEEDLER, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioners ORAL ARGUMENT OFTHOMAS C. GOLDSTEIN, ESQ.On behalf of the Respondent REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OFEDWIN S. KNEEDLER, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioners PAGE th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC P R O C E E D I N G S(: a.m.)CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: We'll hear argumentnow in Number -, United States v. Bean.Mr. Kneedler.ORAL ARGUMENT OF EDWIN S. KNEEDLERON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERSMR. KNEEDLER: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice, andmay it please the Court:In each year's annual Appropriations Act,Congress has prohibited the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco,and Firearms from investigating or acting uponapplications for discretionary relief from firearmsdisabilities under U.S.C. (c.) The court of appealsheld that, in the face of that statutory bar, a Federaldistrict court could itself grant respondent relief fromfirearms disabilities. That holding is contrary tofundamental principles of judicial review of agency actionunder the Administrative Procedure Act. Under the APA --QUESTION: Mr. Kneedler --MR. KNEEDLER: Yes.QUESTION: -- you call it a statutory bar. Ithought there was some difference in appropriationsstatutes from ordinary, ordinary laws. Are the twoexactly the same? Could Congress create a substantive th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC obligation, for example, in an appropriations law, providethat, oh, I don't know, nobody shall sell stock onTuesdays? Could they put that in an appropriationsmeasure?MR. KNEEDLER: Yes. An appropriations law is,for purposes of Congress's lawmaking authority, nodifferent from any other sort of law.QUESTION: That's our holding in Roberts, isn'tit?MR. KNEEDLER: Yes. Now, what the Court hassaid is that if a subsequent appropriations statute issaid to repeal or suspend the application of a prior law,that intention has to be made clear, but here we thinkthat there's no question that the annual AppropriationsAct is clear. There's nothing implied about what Congressdid here. There is an express prohibition against ATFeither investigating or acting upon applications forrelief.law?QUESTION: You call this a suspension of theMR. KNEEDLER: Yes. I mean, effectively. It'sa suspension -- it's an annual -- a suspension for aperiod of year.QUESTION: I suppose Congress -- well, maybe --I mean, I suppose Congress could say, this law that we th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC enacted a year ago is suspended for years. It will notgo into effect for years. I suppose it could say that.MR. KNEEDLER: Yes, absolutely. Congress couldcertainly do that.QUESTION: Well, that's the holding ofDickerson, is it not? MR. KNEEDLER: Yes. So what we have here is anexpress prohibition against ATF exercising the power thatCongress conferred on it. Under the AdministrativeProcedure Act, the only power a court has in judicialreview of agency action is to review what the agency did,and it may only set aside the agency action if the agencyaction is arbitrary or capricious or contrary to law.QUESTION: I don't know if it really bears onthe case, but suppose Congress had a completely differentscheme, and it said that the firearms violator's licensecould be restored if he applied to United States districtcourt, no agency at all, you just go to court. Would thatbe a violation of Article III?MR. KNEEDLER: Well, I think there would be aquestion about that. As I recall, there was, and I thinkit still may be true that courts may grant applicationsfor naturalization, but the court I believe concluded thatthere was at least an implicit adversarial process in thesense that the Government could appear on the other side th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC of the case and oppose it, but I think you raise a verygood point in terms of what would be the traditional waythat something like this would be accomplished, and thatis that it would be natural, and this is what Congress didin (c), to confer this authority on the executivebranch, and it did it in very broad and general terms andthen provided that a person whose application is deniedmay file a petition in district court for judicial reviewof such denial.In other words, under (c) it is the denial bythe ATF, not the application itself, that is the subjectof judicial review.QUESTION: Is the refusal of the ATF to act onan application pursuant to this provision in theappropriation a de facto denial that's reviewable?MR. KNEEDLER: We think it is not. As weexplained in our brief, we believe the word denial in thatcontext means a denial on the merits, and this is what anumber of the courts of appeals that have looked at thequestion have held, and what Congress said in theAppropriations Act is that ATF is barred from even actingupon the application. In other words, it can't eithergrant or deny the application for relief, and thereforethe predicate for judicial review under (c) is missing.We're not saying that there is no judicial th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC review at all. The general provisions of the APA remainavailable and, under U.S.C. , the avenue for judicialreview, or the form of the judicial review is either thespecial statutory review procedure, in this case (c),or in the absence of that or its inadequacy, then anotherappropriate form, in other words, the general provisionsof the APA.But once again, the power of a court under thegeneral provisions of the APA is simply to review theagency's action and to set it aside if contrary to law,and here the action was not contrary to law, it wascompelled by law. The most direct avenue that respondentcould have challenged the agency's approach in this case,its failure to act, was under section (), whichprovides for a court in reviewing agency action to setaside agency action that is -- or excuse me, to compelagency action that is unreasonably delayed or unlawfullywithheld; and, again, there was nothing unlawful aboutATF's withholding of a decision on respondent'sapplication for relief, because Congress compelled thatwithholding.QUESTION: Mr. Kneedler, there was an alternateargument that a foreign conviction shouldn't count forthis purpose. Has the United States ever taken a positionon that? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. KNEEDLER: Yes. Yes, we have. It is theposition of the United States that foreign convictions arecovered by the act. Now, that is not before the Court. The -- in fact, below respondent conceded that a foreignconviction is a proper predicate under (g)(), and theEleventh Circuit expressly declined to reach thatquestion. It wasn't presented in the petition and it'snot before this Court.Indeed, the question of whether a foreignconviction would be a proper predicate is something thatwould be raised under (g) in a prosecution. As wepoint out in our brief, there is a circuit conflict onthat question, but that conflict has arisen in cases,criminal prosecutions brought under (g), and that wouldbe the proper place to begin to make that claim.Neither the general provisions of the APA nor(c) provides someone who is wondering whether he may ormay not be covered by a provision of the Federal criminallaws to bring a declaratory judgment against the UnitedStates to determine whether conduct he hopes to engage inwould be covered by a particular criminal statute. Soeven though it -- it isn't before this Court, but we alsobelieve that this would not be the proper avenue in whichto raise such a claim in any event.Respondent has argued that what is going on here th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC is an implied repeal of the judicial review provisions orthe jurisdiction of the Federal courts to act in a casesuch as this and, as I've said, there's nothing implied. What Congress did was expressly bar ATF, and it otherwiseleft the court's authority unaffected. (c) remains ineffect. It's just that, by virtue of Congress'sprohibiting ATF from acting on applications for relief,there is no denial which could be the predicate for reviewunder that, under that special statutory review procedure.QUESTION: Well, do you think that that's percent clear? I mean, in Robertson, the amendment of aprior statute was affected not by the simple means ofwithholding appropriations. I mean, it set forthdifferent language that was going to govern the matter.Here, the only thing that has happened isthey're not given any appropriations, and you think it isnot a matter -- you think it's entirely clear that whenthe Secretary receives an application and says, I cannotact on this application because the appropriations riderforbids me, do you think it's entirely clear that thatdoes not amount to a denial of the application?MR. KNEEDLER: I think that's the better readingof the statute.QUESTION: Well, it may be the better one, butis it clear? I mean, the law is that unless you make it th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC quite clear in the appropriations statute that you areintending to amend the prior law, the prior law is notamended.MR. KNEEDLER: Again, the -- our position is notthat Congress amended the judicial review provision of(c). What it did was prohibit ATF from acting. (c)'s judicial review procedure is still in effect. The question is whether the -- whether Congress'sdirective to ATF not to even act upon applications forrelief constitutes a denial and, as I say, ATF is barredfrom either granting or denying relief, and I would referthe Court also to the general definition of agency actionunder the APA, which we cite in our brief. This is U.S.C. (). It defines agency action as an agencyrule, order, license, sanction, relief, or the equivalent,or the denial thereof, or a failure to act.So under the APA, which is the general statutegoverning traditional review of agency action, Congressitself has defined a denial of relief as somethingdifferent from a failure to act, and I think there's everyreason to look at (c)'s reference to a denial as beingconsistent, rather than inconsistent with the generaldefinitions that Congress has applied under the APA.I would also add, though, that it doesn'tmatter, that even if the ATF's decision were viewed as a th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC denial within the meaning of (c), the general APAstandards for reviewing that denial still apply. As wepoint out in our brief, this Court's decision in Zurko andthe prior decision in the Brotherhood of LocomotiveEngineers both make clear that, even where you do have aspecial statutory review procedure that establishes theform for judicial review, the nature and character, as theCourt said in Brotherhood of Locomotive Engineers, of thatjudicial review is defined by the general provisions ofthe APA, section ; and again, under those provisionsthe court can only set aside agency action that iscontrary to law; and again, here, the ATF's action wascompelled by law, not contrary to it.So whichever avenue this suit was thought tohave been brought under, there was no basis for thedistrict court to grant relief at all, and we also thinkthat that is entirely consistent with the Congress's purposes in enacting the appropriations bar.The legislative history which respondent hasproduced as an appendix to his brief explains thatCongress had become concerned about the inherentlysubjective nature of the inquiry that ATF was undertaking,and the severe consequences that could result if ATF hadmade a mistake, and also that Congress believed that themoney that was being spent for that purpose, $ million a th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC year for positions at ATF, would be better served --QUESTION: Why didn't it just repeal the thing,then, because it didn't have the votes?MR. KNEEDLER: Well, what it decided to do is toproceed on an annual basis. It would -- which means itcould be subject to revision each year. It was apractical compromise. The Third Circuit explained inPontarelli that the same people who were supporting apermanent repeal in were also the movants for theannual appropriations rider on the theory that itaccomplished essentially the same thing on an annualbasis.QUESTION: This was in the appropriations lawjust for the ATF, or for the whole Treasury Department?MR. KNEEDLER: It's in the provision for ATF.QUESTION: Suppose that the Secretary had someother agency -- the Secret Service didn't have much to dothat month; could he direct them to process some of theseapplications?MR. KNEEDLER: I think not, for there is anothersentence in the appropriations provision for ATF whichsays that no money may be spent to transfer functions fromATF to another department or agency, and I think thereference to agency in that provision would probablyinclude other provisions -- or excuse me, other agencies th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC within the Department of the Treasury, and the Secretaryof the Treasury personally couldn't be expected to act onapplications like this. The Secretary, as this Courtpointed out in the Dunne decision, has --QUESTION: Well, would he abuse his discretionif he took that function away from ATF? You say thatthere's a provision in the statute that he -- that theSecretary himself cannot transfer the function?MR. KNEEDLER: It says, no funds shall bespent -- I believe it says, under this act, to transferfunctions to another agency within ATF.QUESTION: Well, how much money does the --would the Secretary spend if he signed an ordertransferring a function?MR. KNEEDLER: Well, the clear import of whatCongress directed is, the function shall not betransferred. That was clearly what Congress was drivingat.QUESTION: It wouldn't be a transfer to anotheragency if the Secretary did it himself.MR. KNEEDLER: Right, but the Secretary -- firstof all, as Congress well knew when it passed thisappropriations rider, the Secretary has delegated theauthority for acting on these applications to ATF. Thatis the legal framework against which -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: What he gave he could withdraw.QUESTION: He could revoke.MR. KNEEDLER: Perhaps he -- I mean, hepresumably could, but the proper avenue for a respondentto pursue in that situation would be to request ATF -- orexcuse me, the Secretary to revoke the regulation thatproduced the delegation, and then if the Secretarydeclined to do that, to seek review of that under the APAon an arbitrary and capricious standard.Respondent has not pursued that avenue, and wethink it would manifestly not be arbitrary and capriciousfor the Secretary to withdraw that delegation and take onthat function himself with all the other functions thatare before the Secretary of the Treasury with respect tothe Nation's economy and banking and all those othermatters, and in particular it would not be arbitrary andcapricious for the Secretary to decline to do that in theface of the appropriations bar that Congress has enacted,with the -- again, with the clear understanding that itdidn't want these applications to be acted onadministratively, but in any event --QUESTION: Mr. Kneedler --MR. KNEEDLER: I'm sorry.QUESTION: Mr. Kneedler, if we shift the focusfrom the agency to the court, is it your essential th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC argument that Congress provided for an appellate,essentially an appellate role for the district court andnot a first instance role?MR. KNEEDLER: Yes, that --QUESTION: So that the only authority the courtwould have would be to review a decision made by anexecutive official, but there is a provision in this lawfor the district court to take additional evidence. Usually when a court is performing a review function itdoesn't take any evidence.MR. KNEEDLER: Excuse me. That's correct, butit would -- but even the admission or acceptance ofadditional evidence would be in aid of the APA review,which is, again, of the agency's decision. A courtreceiving evidence is not unheard of under the APA, evenunder the arbitrary and capricious standard. As thisCourt pointed out in Overton Park, occasionally there willbe situations in which additional evidence or anexplanation from the agency could be received in judicialreview, but that's only supplemental of the record thatwas before the agency.QUESTION: Well, but the agency doesn't alwayshave to make a record. I mean, suppose the agency just,you know, just makes a decision. Why can't this Courttreat it as a matter of review? That is, the issue before th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC the Court will be whether the action here, assuming it's adenial, was unreasonable?MR. KNEEDLER: The question before the Courtwould be whether it was arbitrary and capricious orunlawful, and again, it wasn't unlawful because Congresscompelled it. Congress compelled the Secretary or ATF notto act on the application. Now, whether or not that'scalled a denial, the bottom line, the failure to affordany relief, was compelled by Congress, so the agency couldnot set -- or, excuse me, the court could not set thataside.Looked at another way, the only relevantevidence that would be introduced in court would beevidence of the fact that respondent had applied during atime when the statutory bar on ATF's action was pending. That is the only relevant evidence that --QUESTION: Mr. Kneedler, can I ask you aquestion? Supposing the Secretary or the head of the ATF,either or both -- say they spent the weekend togethersometimes. They read through the papers on their own timeon a Sunday afternoon and said, gee, this is a case ofrank injustice, I think we're going to grant the petition,and they entered some kind of an order granting it, wouldthat have violated any statutes?MR. KNEEDLER: It would. It would violate this th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC statute. The order, whatever they might have read ontheir own time the order would be taken in their officialcapacity, and the -- and --QUESTION: But suppose they drafted it onSaturday and signed it on Saturday?MR. KNEEDLER: It would still be a -- thesecond --QUESTION: It would be in their officialcapacities but it wouldn't have cost the Government adime.QUESTION: Doesn't -- the statute doesn't say,official capacity. It says, expend funds.MR. KNEEDLER: It says expend funds, but itmeans to act -- but it says, to -- it is directed to theactions of the ATF in its official capacity. Only anofficial act of ATF could relieve someone from firearmsdisabilities.QUESTION: I suppose the argument is that the --certainly the Secretary, and perhaps all Federalofficials, don't get paid by the hour, they get paid forall the official actions that they take during the year,so that even if they take it on a Saturday they're beingcompensated for it.MR. KNEEDLER: That's correct, and --QUESTION: Minimally, but compensated. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC (Laughter.)MR. KNEEDLER: They are paid for the office, notfor the work that they are performing, nor could theSecretary direct ATF to grant it, because again he wouldbe directing an unlawful act.If there are no further questions, I'd like toreserve the balance of my time for rebuttal.QUESTION: Very well, Mr. Kneedler.Mr. Goldstein, we'll hear from you.ORAL ARGUMENT OF THOMAS C. GOLDSTEINON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTMR. GOLDSTEIN: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court:Congress, in section (c), providedindividuals like Respondent Tommy Bean two rights vis avis the Secretary of the Treasury of the United States ofAmerica. Individuals may apply to, quote, unquote, "theSecretary" for relief from firearms disabilities and, ifthe Secretary denies that application, they may securejudicial review. The obvious flaw in the Government'sposition this morning, as several of the later questionsidentified, is that Congress has never, expressly orimpliedly repealed those rights vis a vis the Secretary. The appropriations statutes that are before you addressonly the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, and Firearms. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Congress has set aside a separate and special budget forthe Department of the Treasury generally, which is underthe control of the Secretary, it's for $ million, andthe right to proceed before the Secretary is unaffected.QUESTION: Well, now, did your client seek toproceed before the Secretary?MR. GOLDSTEIN: Yes. Page of the jointappendix is the application. It's directed to theSecretary of the Treasury, care of BATF. We went, as thestatute directs, to the Secretary of the Treasury. TheSecretary of the Treasury told Tommy Bean that he was notgoing to restore firearms rights.QUESTION: Well, this was not a personalconversation between the two, I take it.(Laughter.)MR. GOLDSTEIN: We don't have his number. That's right. We wrote him a letter, as the statuterequires.QUESTION: Well, he didn't say, denied. Hesaid, I'm not going to act upon it.MR. GOLDSTEIN: And that --QUESTION: Whereupon, your remedy under theAdministrative Procedure Act would be to sue in districtcourt for agency action unreasonably withheld.MR. GOLDSTEIN: With respect, the premise and th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC the conclusion are not -- of your question are notcorrect. The ATF on behalf of the Secretary said, I'm notgoing to grant you this relief. The definition ofdenial -- the statute does not say, denial on the merits. The definition of denial is a refusal to grant therequested relief. That's --QUESTION: Mr. Goldstein, may I back you up justa bit, because I'm looking at the letter you cited. It isaddressed to the Secretary, but it's care of Director ofthe Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms, and Congresspasses all kinds of laws giving the Secretary authority todo this or that, which the Secretary invariably delegates,and I can't think of an instance where a regime of thisorder is taken over by the Secretary herself, rather thanby some delegatee, but this is the kind of thing that'smade to order for, not the top person, but for it to bedelegated.MR. GOLDSTEIN: Can I address both the questionof whether there are other examples of the scheme we'vedescribed, which is to say, the agency head does it, andthen the question of whether or not, if this were a novelscheme, it would matter?The premise that there aren't parallels for thisis not correct. I can give you three examples. TheAttorney General is required to personally certify any th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC person who's going to be subject to the Federal deathpenalty. That's U.S.C. -- U.S.C. . Under theCivil Rights for Institutionalized Persons Act, which is U.S.C. (a), the Attorney General is required topersonally certify a prosecution, and there are variousFederal criminal prosecutions for civil rights violations,which are at U.S.C. .QUESTION: How does the statute make it clearthat it's a personal obligation or a nondelegableobligation? What are the words that it uses, or thatthose statutes use?MR. GOLDSTEIN: It's the two in combination. (c) says the Secretary. (a)() defines theSecretary to mean that individual or the delegate. Then,what Congress did is, it came along in the appropriationsaction, act and said, we recognize -- well, I'll give --the literal language is that the ATF may not investigateor act upon --QUESTION: No, no, I'm sorry, my question wasn'tclear. I want to go to the examples that you were givingof personal obligation.MR. GOLDSTEIN: I apologize.QUESTION: And you used the adverb,personally --MR. GOLDSTEIN: Yes. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: -- certify, et cetera. How do theyprovide for that so-called personal action?MR. GOLDSTEIN: They generally say, the AttorneyGeneral shall certify, and the courts have interpretedthat -- I believe there is an example that says,personally.QUESTION: Which we don't have here.MR. GOLDSTEIN: We definitely do not have here,but we have the equivalent, and then I'll get to Justice,the underlying question of Justice Ginsburg's, and thatis, does it matter if this is done in a different way.We have here the parallel, because what happenedis that Congress defined the Secretary to be thatindividual or the delegate, and in the appropriations lawshas told ATF, as the delegate, that they may not act onanything else, and the parallel provision that Mr.Kneedler pointed to, which is that the Secretary may nottransfer to any other division or agency.What Congress did not say -- and this isextraordinarily important. It's the key to the entirecase. Congress did not say that no funds in this or anyother act, or no funds in the subsection dealing with thebudget of the Secretary of the Treasury, may be used. Now, it is that --QUESTION: Well, maybe it didn't say that th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC because it thought it was perfectly clear that if itdidn't want public money used under -- by the delegate, itpresumably wouldn't want public funds used for the samepurpose by everybody else, which seems like a fairlyreasonable assumption.MR. GOLDSTEIN: Maybe --QUESTION: I mean, why isn't it a reasonableassumption?MR. GOLDSTEIN: It may be, but what --QUESTION: Well, if it is a reasonableassumption, haven't we got to take that into considerationin interpreting the annual bar, and hold against you,otherwise we'll be clearly -- we would clearly be goingagainst the intent of Congress?MR. GOLDSTEIN: No, and that's the underlyingpoint to Justice Ginsburg's questions. This Court --QUESTION: My first question started out, itseems that you in the beginning of this process understoodthat the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, and Firearms was therelevant actor, because you addressed the Secretary careof that agency, not the Secretary --MR. GOLDSTEIN: And let me explain why. The C.F.R. (a), which has never been repealed, requiredus to send it to ATF. We had no choice. There's aregulation on the books that says we have to submit it to th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC the Director. We didn't have a choice, but to makeperfectly clear that it was directed to the Secretary wesay, we send it to the Secretary care of ATF.But I need to return to Justice Souter'squestion, which is, is it good enough in this case, as inmany other instances of statutory construction, to say, weget the general sense of what Congress was trying to do? The answer is no. In this area of law uniquely, Congresshas to turn square corners. The relevant text of anystatute is section (c). It's never been repealed. Itsays --QUESTION: What you're saying is that Congresswas just wasting its time here. It was trying to dosomething. It just didn't accomplish it.MR. GOLDSTEIN: No, Mr. Chief Justice, and letme get to that point, and that is, I agree with you thatit would be foolish to say that the appropriations actsare completely ineffective, and if our interpretation wereto deprive them of any value, we agree it would be highlyquestionable. It is not.The scheme that results is clearly one underwhich the Secretary will grant only those applicationswhere the right to relief is perfectly clear. Where, asin this case, it is --QUESTION: How do you know that? You say the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC scheme that results, I don't see how you can see that fromthe enactment in question.MR. GOLDSTEIN: Because, Mr. Chief Justice, whatCongress did is, it created a system under which thesubdivisions underneath the Secretary may not investigateor act. It's left to the Secretary, and now it is --QUESTION: But the -- that just doesn't fit withthe real world. The idea that the Secretary on his way tothe International Monetary Fund meeting is going toaddress an application like this just doesn't make sense.MR. GOLDSTEIN: Mr. Chief Justice, with respect,we -- well, first of all, the text of the statute we thinkis enough on its face, but on the question of whether ornot it makes sense, we think it does, because -- and Iwill point you to several other examples in Federalfirearms law where Congress has adopted categorical rulesallowing felons to have their rights restored.We believe this is a safety valve. We're notsaying that the Secretary has to grant any particularapplication. What we're saying is that Congressrecognized that there would be extraordinary cases. WhatCongress was faced with was that ATF had spent $ milliongranting , applications, and that's what thelegislative history shows that Congress was trying to cutoff. What we are describing is a very different animal. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC It is an animal that's in the text of the statute, andthat is, the Secretary is still empowered to grant relief.Now, Justice Ginsburg, one of the premises ofyour question was that there's a delegation here. Thedelegation here is not exclusive. The delegation hereprovides that -- and this was in -- when the BATF wascreated, the Secretary provided that the Director shallact under the general supervision of the Secretary andunder -- excuse me, and under the supervision of theAssistant Secretary.The parallel that's drawn by the SolicitorGeneral is to United States v. Nixon and to the Accardicase, and those were exclusive delegations. In UnitedStates v. Nixon this Court said -- and this is at page of the opinion -- that the special prosecutor had plenaryauthority, and the regulation provided that the AttorneyGeneral shall not interfere with the special prosecutor'sdecision, and in Accardi, and this is at page , theCourt said that -- the scheme in Accardi was that theAttorney General would act only after the Bureau ofImmigration Affairs, and that clearly contemplated thatthe AG would stay out of the process.In any event, not only is this not an exclusivedelegation, but our fundamental point is that it's anillegal delegation. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: Mr. Goldstein, I would -- you areconcentrating on the agency end of it. Looking at it fromthe perspective of a court, you seem to be making of thedistrict court an entity that doesn't exist in the U.S.system. You're having the district court in effect beingan examining magistrate. There is no adverse party. You're having the district court determine whether there'ssufficient evidence to warrant restoring the license.We don't have district judges performing thatkind of mixed function, proceeding in that ex parte way. It would be extraordinary for Congress to make such aprovision, and yet you want us to infer it.MR. GOLDSTEIN: No, Justice Ginsburg. Here'show it works. The statute contemplates when there's adenial, and we will take up, probably, the questionfurther of whether or not there's a denial here, but tofocus only on the judicial review aspect, when there's adenial, you file a petition with the Federal districtcourt.What happens in all the cases would be whathappened here, and that is that the district judge ordersthe United States and the Secretary made the partydefendant. They come into the case, and they have theopportunity to put on evidence, to examine thewitnesses -- that happened here -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: But the United States came in andsaid, we are disabled. Congress doesn't want us to play apart in that. It seems to me then the -- you fight thatout, and if the agency isn't disabled, the district courtorders the agency to act. But that's not what you askedfor. You asked the district court to restore thisperson's license, and that's the relief you got.MR. GOLDSTEIN: Justice Ginsburg, you arecorrect what we asked for. You are, with respect, notcorrect about what the Government said in this case. TheGovernment did not come in and say, our hands are tied. The Government did press its argument that there wasn'tjurisdiction, but it absolutely did participate on thefactual side of the case. I can give you examples.J.A. is the examination of Tommy Bean, andthen the cross-examination by the Assistant United StatesAttorney. J.A. is the opportunity given to the UnitedStates to cross-examine the chief of police. We --QUESTION: Did the United States take theposition that this license shouldn't be restored?MR. GOLDSTEIN: No. Precisely the opposite. J.A. is the United --QUESTION: I don't understand how there was anadversary proceeding, then.MR. GOLDSTEIN: What happened is, they came th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC in -- I'm -- I've confused you with the timing. OnJanuary , -- on , there was a hearing heldbefore the Federal district judge, Judge Fisher. TheUnited States participated.It did not say, we are prohibited fromparticipating. They had been given the opportunity totake witnesses, and let me detour very briefly, and thatis to say that while the appropriations statutes prohibitATF from acting on applications, we are now talking about,as you've pointed us to, the petition, and there isnothing -- and that's the distinction drawn in section(c). ATF is not disabled from participating in thedistrict court.To return. There was this hearing on January. The United States was given the opportunity to put onevidence and cross-examine witnesses, as I was justdescribing. Immediately afterwards, the Respondent Beansubmitted proposed findings of fact and conclusions of lawafter that adversary proceeding. At J.A. --QUESTION: In what sense it was adversary? Usually, if the bureau hadn't been disabled by Congress itwould say, deny an application, and then there would be adetermination on the merits, but here, apparently therewas no position taken on the merits.MR. GOLDSTEIN: I'm almost there. There was. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC J.A. is the United States' response to our proposedfindings of fact, and they conclude at J.A. that ourproposed findings of fact are supported by the evidence. Finding of fact is that petitioner -- that -- he -- wewere the petitioner there. Petitioner, based on thecircumstances of his disability and based on his recordand reputation, would not represent a threat to the publicsafety, and finding of fact that they conceded was thatgranting petitioner the relief he requested would not becontrary to the public interest. What happened here isthat the evidence was so overwhelming. We had six chiefsof --QUESTION: Well, why -- if the United States wasa party, as I suppose is the purport of what you'resaying, why isn't that a violation of the appropriationsrider, so that we must disregard it?MR. GOLDSTEIN: Because, Justice Kennedy,nothing in the appropriations rider prohibits either ofthe two following things: First, the United StatesAttorney showing up and representing the United States,relatedly the Secretary of the Treasury showing up; or theATF participating at the petition stage, as opposed to theapplication stage.I think it's very important to recognize herethat this case has proceeded up until today on the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC understanding of the parties that the evidence about Mr.Bean's entitlement to relief was overwhelming. Six chiefsof police, a priest, a local --QUESTION: I don't know that that's an argument. I mean, I concede that. I'm still left back at JusticeScalia's question, because I thought in response to hisquestion you -- I had the impression you were suggestingthat the Secretary had somewhere written a piece of paperthat in effect denied the application, and I lookedthrough this appendix -- I've been doing that andlistening at the same time --(Laughter.)QUESTION: -- and I cannot find that letter. MR. GOLDSTEIN: Right.QUESTION: All I find in the appendix issomething written by Ms. Pamela Potaczek, who is from theATF, and what that says is, because of the restriction weare returning Mr. Bean's application for restoration. That's the end of that. He can apply again.Now, is there some other piece of paper?MR. GOLDSTEIN: No.QUESTION: No.MR. GOLDSTEIN: Our position is --QUESTION: Well then, if there is no other pieceof paper, what is the response to Justice Scalia's th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC question, which was simply that there has been no denial? They return the application, and if your client felt thatthey should have acted on it, he should file a request inthe district court for -- of course, as soon as you dothat, the Secretary will come in and say, of course Ididn't act on it. That's what Congress meant. And thenthe question will be whether that's a reasonableinterpretation of this statute, and then, of course, theGovernment thinks of course it's a reasonableinterpretation, and even if it's an incorrectinterpretation, at least reasonable.MR. GOLDSTEIN: Right.QUESTION: Now, that's where I am, which is, Ithink, what Justice Scalia was raising.MR. GOLDSTEIN: Justice Breyer, you have severalquestions. Let me deal with them in the following terms:was there a denial here, second, does it matter whetherthere was a denial here, and third, is it sufficient thatthe Government's position and interpretation isreasonable, as opposed to compelled by the statutorylanguage?The plain meaning of the word denial is arefusal to grant the relief requested. Our position isthat when ATF turns around and sends us a letter saying,we're not going to act, that is -- it's not a failure to th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC act, it's a refusal to act. That is a denial, and I canpoint to their own regulation that means it must be so.Under subsection (i)()() of the governingregulation, which unfortunately is not reproduced in anyof the documents -- we do cite it, I apologize, but it isnot quoted in any of the appendices. Under thatprovision, ATF said that any person who is a firearmslicensee -- let me briefly draw the distinction here, andthat is, there are people who are allowed to have firearmsunder State law, but there are federally licensed dealers,importers, collectors.In the latter class, any person who submits anapplication to ATF is allowed to continue operating for days, until days after the denial. If the Governmentis -- and that's a quote, of the denial of theapplication.If the Government is correct here, it would makethe profoundly -- have the profoundly illogicalconsequence that no licensed collector has ever beendenied, and they all have the right to continue operating.QUESTION: Well, that's true if we assume yourfirst premise, that a failure to act is a denial, andthat's the question.MR. GOLDSTEIN: Oh, no, just the reverse,Justice Souter. Let me be clear. The regulation says th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC that you get to keep operating under your license until days after the denial. What I'm saying is, if you acceptMr. Kneedler's premise that all these letters that ATF hasbeen sending out are not denials --QUESTION: No, but the -- that provision assumesthat there is going to be action upon the request, thatthe ATF or the Treasury will take it under advisement andin effect say, yes, we'll tell you yes or no when we'vehad time, and that's not what is happening here, and ifthat, in fact, is a fair distinction, then the statuteyou're just referring to doesn't even apply.MR. GOLDSTEIN: Justice Souter, if theGovernment is correct -- and I won't belabor this point. If the Government is correct that the ATF letters don'tcount as denials, then every licensed dealer in the UnitedStates can continue operating indefinitely.QUESTION: Well, once again, we're just goingaround in a circle. If we accept your premise, sure. Ifwe don't accept your premise that a refusal to act and, infact, a very candid refusal to act is tantamount to adenial, then your conclusion doesn't follow and thestatute that you refer to doesn't apply.MR. GOLDSTEIN: I'll move on, then. Irespectfully disagree, but I -- and I think the languagewill track in our direction, but let me move on, because th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Justice Breyer had two subsidiary questions.QUESTION: In respect to that, is there aninstance where they sent a letter back to a firearmslicensee saying, well, we aren't going to process thisbecause of the statute, and then the firearms licenseesaid, well, you haven't denied it, I'll stay in business,and then they went to the firearms licensee and said, no,you can't stay in business?MR. GOLDSTEIN: I don't know the answer to thatquestion.QUESTION: All right. Well, if we don't knowthe answer to that, we don't know, in other words, whetheror not this reg does or does not stand in the way.MR. GOLDSTEIN: Well, my impression --QUESTION: So I understand --MR. GOLDSTEIN: My impression is that it's aform letter that goes out to everyone.QUESTION: Uh-huh.MR. GOLDSTEIN: Now, you -- I had promised tocome back to the question of whether, in this case, itmatters that we didn't get what this Court would concludeto be a technical denial letter, notwithstanding if youaccept the rest of our argument that we have the right tocompel the Secretary to give us one, So to play this out,our position is that the Secretary had the duty to act. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC The question back to us is, well, maybe the Secretarydidn't act here.My point is, that doesn't matter. The questionpresented by -- before this Court, if I could take you toit, is that -- is fundamentally, and this is the text ofit, whether a Federal district court has the authority togrant relief. The Government has never contended, again,in the district court that there was an insufficientpremise for us to be in district court.The question before this Court is whether or notthe right -- excuse me, the provision for judicial reviewin section (c) has been repealed, and that takes usback to your third question, Justice Breyer, or thirdsubsidiary one, and that is, is it enough -- and this isJustice Souter's point. Isn't it enough for us torecognize basically what Congress was after here, and Iwill turn to the answer. It is no.TVA v. Hill, Will, Robertson, many other,Dickerson, of this Court's precedents make perfectlyclear, and this was the question that Justice Scaliastarted out with, that an appropriations repeal has to becategorical. The conflict between the two statutes,section (c) and the appropriations law, have to beirreconcilable, and that is not the case here.QUESTION: I don't know that that was the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC holding of Dickerson. I mean, they went into legislativehistory -- you couldn't just say it jumped out at you.MR. GOLDSTEIN: Well, Mr. Chief Justice, then Iwill take you to TVA v. Hill, which does address thisissue. The Court has made perfectly clear that the kindof legislative history here is the kind of legislativehistory that would draw Justice Souter and possiblyJustice Breyer to the conclusion that we know basicallywhat Congress was trying to do. Those are AppropriationsCommittee reports, and this Court could not have been moreclear that those are not an accurate indicia ofcongressional intent. There are --QUESTION: Mr. Goldstein, before we get intolegislative history and how it bears on this, I seeCongress having established traditional roles where theexecutive was going to be the investigator, the court wasgoing to be the reviewer. The agency says, we have noauthority to act. When a court says, we don't haveauthority to act, it's not granting or denying the reliefrequested, so isn't that the proper way to look at whatthe agency is doing? When it says, we have no authorityto act, it isn't granting or denying.And then on the court, the court said, Congressset us up to be a court of review, not first view. Theagency hasn't looked at it because it says it has no th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC authority to do it. Congress did not give us theauthority, ever, to take a first view of this.MR. GOLDSTEIN: Justice Ginsburg, let me -- canI start at the end of what I think is the consequence ofseveral of these questions, and then come back to thedifference between administrative review and judicialreview, and whether this would just be unknown to Americanlaw?The very best we think that the Government canget out of this argument is a judgment of this Court thatsays we were entitled to a remand to the Secretary. Whenwe came to Federal district court and asked for relief,the best the Government could do was an order that says,no, you should have acted.What can't be the case, we believe, is that theSecretary would be able to just let these things pile upon his desk and say, I've never denied them, tough.Now, the -- what we take --QUESTION: He didn't deny them. He said theagency has no authority to rule on these applications.MR. GOLDSTEIN: Right, and if we conclude that'snot a denial, we can't get into court.The Government's answer, I think, if we movedown the road, will be that we should file anotherlawsuit, an APA lawsuit that says, to compel agency action th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC unreasonably withheld, and if you take that position, ifyou conclude that this is agency inaction instead of anagency refusal to act, the surreply to that, the answer isthat you should treat this as an APA action. Theprovision that Mr. Kneedler is quoting to you, U.S.C., says that the form of an action under the APA shallbe the special review provision provided by statute, andthat's section (c).If we were required to file under the APA wedid. That's --QUESTION: The serious underlying question hereis, I agree with you that you found a literal way aroundthis, and so you're saying, well, if there's a literal wayaround it, and you have a statute saying do it, that youought to do it, whatever the form of the action is to getthe case here, and I guess the underlying thing is, well,my goodness, everyone knows what Congress wants here. It's perfectly obvious.And so a Secretary who said, I'm not going toenforce this statute because Congress doesn't want me toeven though there's a literal way I could do it withouttechnically violating the actual language of theprohibition, does the Secretary have the right to do that? Well, I would think the answer to that question's yes.MR. GOLDSTEIN: The answer -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: Because otherwise Congress can'twork.MR. GOLDSTEIN: Well, the answer to the questionis no, and let me explain why.(Laughter.)MR. GOLDSTEIN: Mr. Kneedler -- thankfully.Mr. Kneedler framed the question as whether ornot the Secretary abused his discretion by not withdrawingthe delegation, by saying, I knew what Congress was up to,this is my agency, I know how this thing works.The answer is that this is not a question ofabuse of discretion. It is a question of a clearstatutory command. Section (c) says, we can apply tothe Secretary, and clearly contemplates that the Secretarywill act on these things. It's not an option.QUESTION: Mr. Goldstein, let me just be sureabout one thing. Is your submission limited to cases thatyou think are totally clear on their face, or does itcover cases when there are marginal issues of fact?MR. GOLDSTEIN: The right to apply to theSecretary would remain. We think it's clear that theSecretary, once his obligation to act is recognized, willset up standards. He'll say things like, I'm only goingto grant relief if it's an -- the legislative historyrefers to a technical or unintentional violation where th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC there are sworn statements in front of me that makeperfectly clear this person is no threat whatsoever.That will be up to the Secretary. The Secretarywill get to decide, and if he's granting too manyapplications, Congress will come along and say, no fundingunder this or any other act shall be expended toinvestigate or act on appropriation, on (c)applications.The critical thing, and the -- is that theGovernment does not dispute that this appropriations riderever since is in the subdivision that applies only toATF. If you want to talk about Congress working, theyneed clear instructions. We can't have the executivebranch out here saying, I don't really like this statute,and so I'm going to infer that it's been repealed, and wecan't have the courts doing that, too. It will take noeffort whatsoever, if this is what Congress reallyintends, to strip away the statute and to do it inappropriations law.QUESTION: So I'm still left with -- assumingall that, I'm still left with the problem that you'veasked for the court to make the decision rather thanasking to have the Secretary make the decision.MR. GOLDSTEIN: Okay. We have a, now, I think,a different question of administrative law, and that is th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC the fundamental principle, in the APA context or aparallel like (c), is it only the court that can enterthe order saying, you have a right to relief? Or does --where's the proper order, send it to the Secretary andsaying, it would be an abuse of discretion, it'sabsolutely clear under the statute you're entitled to it.Now, the court here did the latter. If thisCourt decided that was technically incorrect, it couldreverse on that ground and say, no, no, no, the correcttechnical judgment is to put it back in the hands of theSecretary.QUESTION: But you didn't ask for it to be putback in the hands of the Secretary.MR. GOLDSTEIN: And neither did the Government.QUESTION: You're saying that the court had anobligation to give you something you didn't even ask for?MR. GOLDSTEIN: Mr. Justice Scalia, they gave uswhat we asked for. I apologize for that. If --QUESTION: That was the wrong thing.MR. GOLDSTEIN: If they should have --(Laughter.)MR. GOLDSTEIN: If they should have donesomething else, then this Court can tell it so, but we --I don't think it's fair to hold us to the position thatthe Government did not object, that only the Secretary -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC in this case, when you go through the district courtrecord, that the only proper remedy is an order to theSecretary to grant us relief, as opposed to granting usrelief personally. Remember, as I quoted to you from thefindings of fact, the Government left the playing fieldhere. It admitted that with all of the evidence we had,no one could reasonably dispute that Tommy Bean wasperfectly entitled and represented no threat. The onlyquestion -- they participated on the fact side of thecase. Their only argument that they attempted to advancewas that the district court was powerless to do anythingat all.With respect, we did what we were supposed to doto get relief here, and if the Court decides that it onlyshould have gone to the Secretary, that's a minor changein the judgment. QUESTION: I still think participation by ATF inthe judicial proceeding is within (c), and Congress wasforbidden that, too.MR. GOLDSTEIN: Justice Kennedy, let me be clearon what money was spent, because there were technicalquestions about this. The United States Attorney's Officeparticipated here, not --QUESTION: There was an ATF agent who testified,and that's within -- the purview of (c), and th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Congress says you can't do that.MR. GOLDSTEIN: With respect, there was oneagent who was one witness. The appropriations statutesays you may not investigate, which was not what he wasdoing, and you may not act upon, which was not what he wasdoing, upon applications, which this was not. It was apetition under section (c). There was no prohibition,and the ATF agent did not object that I'm not allowed tobe there. We did -- we put the witnesses on that we weresupposed to.QUESTION: Can I ask, under your view of thingscan the Secretary use assistance, or would that constitutea delegation?MR. GOLDSTEIN: He can. What he can do is, hecan take and is required to take up into his own hands, asthe three examples I gave to Justice Ginsburg, theresponsibility. He can detail. He has a budget of $million, $,, and he can take them up into his handsand say, look, I've got these sworn statements, and hecould require, I want sworn statements. He couldrequire, I want , and he can have someone confirm thatthat's the right person. But what we do think, and thisgoes back to the Chief Justice's question, is that we donot think that Congress contemplated that the Secretarywould spend $ million granting , applications. If th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC he decided --QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. Goldstein.MR. GOLDSTEIN: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice.QUESTION: Mr. Kneedler, you have minutesremaining.REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF EDWIN S. KNEEDLERON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERSMR. KNEEDLER: Mr. Chief Justice, the argumentthat the Secretary could have granted relief was neverraised below in this case. It was not raised in the courtof appeals, it wasn't raised in the brief in opp, it wasraised for the first time in respondent's brief, and againif -- we think the proper avenue for that would be a suitto the -- suing the Secretary under the APA or --QUESTION: No, but his point, and actuallyalthough he raised it late, is certainly a factor. Thatseems to me the most powerful argument, that there's nopoint sending it back to the Secretary, really, eventhough that's the correct procedural route, if theSecretary under the law has no choice, and what he'ssaying is, the Secretary under the law has no choice, andthe reason is because literally this appropriationsmeasure doesn't cover the Secretary's action.And given the absence of that, the Secretary'sunder a statute that tells him, act, and moreover, he th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC adds, this is a very bad way to repeal a statute, thatreally under normal legislative principles if they want torepeal it, repeal it; and therefore it isn't wrong for usto consider this literally in this circumstance. So that,I think, is -- that's an argument that's worth hearingwhat the reply is.MR. KNEEDLER: Well, I -- first of all, I thinkit is wrong. It would be a different disposition of thejudgment, but with respect --QUESTION: Well, maybe we'd reach a different --MR. KNEEDLER: Right.QUESTION: The disposition would be one thing --MR. KNEEDLER: Right. QUESTION: -- but he's saying, that's reallywhat the heart of this is about.MR. KNEEDLER: There's -- first of all, let memake another point which I think goes very much to theSecretary's authority. We point out on page and ofour reply brief general principles of appropriations lawthat are really a particular application of the generalprinciple that the specific governs the general, and underappropriations law, when Congress appropriates a pot ofmoney for a particular task, that's all that can be spentfor that task. Money can't be drawn from some other potto perform that task. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC We think that principle should apply a fortiori,or at least it's a reasonable interpretation for theSecretary to make, that when Congress has prohibited theexpenditure of any funds by the agency to whom theSecretary has delegated that authority, that Congress didnot expect money to be drawn from some other pot. That isa general principle of appropriations law. At the veryleast, the Secretary should be given the opportunity --QUESTION: What is the authority for sayingthat's a general principle of appropriations law?MR. KNEEDLER: There are a number of ComptrollerGeneral opinions that we cite at the bottom of page ofour reply brief, and it's against principles like thatthat agencies always act in deciding how they're going tospend money. But if this argument was going to be made,the right disposition would be to present it to theSecretary, so the Secretary can construe this statute,just like all the other statutes that need to beadministered, and the way to do that --QUESTION: It's one thing to say that whenCongress says we give $, to subunit B to performthis function, you cannot use $ million from somewhereelse to perform the same function. That's one thing. It's something quite different, however, to say that whenyou have forbidden one unit from doing something, and th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC there is a general statute which allows the Secretary todo it, that that prohibition also applies to theSecretary. I just don't think it's parallel.MR. KNEEDLER: Well, at the very least it wouldnot be arbitrary and capricious for the Secretary todecline to withdraw the delegation. That, we think, isthe question that would arise in that situation, becausethe Secretary now may not act on these applications. He -- the ATF acts under the general direction of theSecretary, but if the Secretary directed ATF to grant oneof these applications, he would be directing an illegalact. He would have to withdraw the delegation. He hasn'tbeen asked by respondent to do that, which would require apetition for rulemaking.The Secretary, in deciding whether to take thispower back to himself, could at the very least take intoaccount what Congress has said about not wanting theseapplications to be acted upon by ATF, and also the reasonsthe Congress gave, which is that this is a very subjectiveundertaking, with high risk, and Congress decided, wedon't want this function being performed because of thepotential consequences. We want this money to be used forother purposes in fighting crime. All of that would makeit entirely reasonable for the Secretary not to take onthis function himself. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC The other important point to notice is that --QUESTION: Well, he has a statutory obligationto perform the function --MR. KNEEDLER: I was just going to -- QUESTION: -- which has not been canceled by theappropriations law.MR. KNEEDLER: He does not -- nothing in thestatute says that the Secretary must act on applications. It says the Secretary may grant relief. It does notrequire him to grant relief, and the Secretary could veryeasily withhold action, which is, after all, what Congressrequired ATF to do.QUESTION: What, on the ground that it's likethe pardon power, it's like a matter of grace, orsomething like that?MR. KNEEDLER: Yes, very much so. It's -- it's,or, as the Court said four or five terms ago in the Yangcase that we cite in our brief with respect to relief fromdeportation, it is exactly like the pardon power, and it'swritten in very broad terms. It establishes severalpreconditions, whether the person would be dangerous tothe public safety, and whether granting it would not becontrary to the public interest, and even then theSecretary is not required to grant relief.This is a very broad discretionary power, and I th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC think it ties into what Justice Ginsburg was askingearlier, wouldn't this be an extraordinary power to giveto the Federal district courts. Indeed it would, becausethe question is not just whether the person might bedangerous, but whether granting relief would be contraryto the public interest. That's not the sort ofdetermination a court can make in the first instance. It's something that Congress has assigned to theSecretary. In this case, even if respondent is correct thathe wouldn't be dangerous, it doesn't follow thatrestoration of firearms abilities would be consistent withthe public interest. That's a judgment that Congressinvested in the Secretary, not in the courts, and asJustice Kennedy pointed out, ATF could not investigate anapplication for relief in connection with a judicialproceeding any more than it could in an administrativeproceeding.The ATF agent who testified in this case was oneof respondent's witnesses. He was not called by theGovernment.QUESTION: Is testifying investigation?MR. KNEEDLER: Pardon me?QUESTION: Is testifying investigation?MR. KNEEDLER: Well, that would be -- we did not th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC object, the Government did not object in the districtcourt to his testifying. He was just testifying as towhat he had looked up in the records, but an investigationinvolves far more than that.In fact, the AUSA in this case cross-examinedMr. Bean and a couple of other witnesses, but that's farshort of the investigation that Congress expected ATF toundertake when it was performing these functions, and thatit did undertake, which involved an investigation of thecrime, neighbors, not just the people whom respondent hasput forward, but ATF would go out and develop its ownindependent leads. None of that capability exists whenthe Government is responding to an application filed incourt.So for these reasons we think it is --QUESTION: Mr. Kneedler --MR. KNEEDLER: Yes.QUESTION: -- if you've had a chance to completeyour rebuttal, I had one question. Do you think theSecretary's authority under the statute is broad enoughso, even without any act of Congress or anything in theappropriation, the Secretary could have adopted a policy,we would rather use our money on other purposes and sowe're not going to process any applications?MR. KNEEDLER: I do believe it's -- it is broad th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC enough. I think the Secretary -- all it says is, theSecretary may grant relief. I think the Secretary coulddecide, and in fact the regulations, (d) has somecategorical exclusions that the Secretary had adopted butthe district court in this case ignored. Even -- we thinkthe court couldn't act at all, but it even ignored thestandards that the Secretary had adopted in the publicinterest to implement what would be a public intereststandard under the statute. The district court ignoredthem, so we think that the Secretary could make acategorical determination not to grant relief.CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: Thank you, Mr.Kneedler. The case is submitted.(Whereupon, at : a.m., the case in theabove-entitled matter was submitted.) th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC 