IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -xGARY ALBERT EWING, Petitioner, ::v. CALIFORNIA : No. -:- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -xWashington, D.C.Tuesday, November , The above-entitled matter came on for oral argumentbefore the Supreme Court of the United States at : a.m.APPEARANCES:QUIN DENVIR, ESQ., Federal Defender, Sacramento,California; on behalf of the Petitioner.DONALD E. DE NICOLA, ESQ., Deputy AttorneyGeneral, Los Angeles, California; on behalfof the Respondent.MICHAEL CHERTOFF, ESQ., Assistant AttorneyGeneral, Department of Justice, Washington,D.C., for United States, as amicus curiae,supporting the Respondent. C O N T E N T SORAL ARGUMENT OF QUIN DENVIR, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioner ORAL ARGUMENT OFDONALD E. DE NICOLA, ESQ.On behalf of the Respondent ORAL ARGUMENT OFMICHAEL CHERTOFF, ESQ.In support of the Respondent REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OFQUIN DENVIR, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioner PAGE P R O C E E D I N G S[: a.m.]CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: We'll hear argument now onnumber -, Gary Albert Ewing versus California.Mr. Denvir.ORAL ARGUMENT OF QUIN DENVIRON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERMR. DENVIR: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it pleasethe Court: In March , Gary Ewing walked into a LosAngeles pro shop, took three golf clubs, stuck them down thepants legs, and walked out. He was quickly apprehended forthat crime. For that crime --QUESTION: What was the value of the golf clubs?MR. DENVIR: Because the value of the golf clubs wasapproximately $, it was grand theft under California law. For grand theft, as a general matter, Californiaprovides a maximum sentence of three years. It also --because Mr. Ewing had served a prior prison sentence, he wouldbe subject to a recidivism enhancement of one year, so themaximum sentence that he would have faced under Californialaw, but for the so-called "three-strikes law," would havebeen four years in prison, which could have been reduced byone-half by his conduct in prison and his work in prison. However, because Mr. Ewing had a prior conviction for first-degree burglary, which has been classified as a serious felony by California, and for robbery, which has been classified as aviolent felony by California --QUESTION: Was it armed robbery?MR. DENVIR: He was armed with a knife at that time.And because of those two convictions, he came underthe California "three strikes and you're out" law. And as aresult of that, he received a sentence of life imprisonmentand with a -- with an added bar that he could not even beconsidered for parole for years.QUESTION: Would it be fair to add that anotherreason for the sentence was that the judge did not disregardthe priors, and that was because the judge had the record infront of him and the record showed other --a history of otheroffenses? Would that be a fair statement?MR. DENVIR: It is correct, Your Honor. It -- thejudge did have discretion to strike the priors or to reducethis wobbler offense to a misdemeanor. She declined to do so,partly on the basis of his prior record. His prior recordwere all misdemeanor convictions prior to that time. But --QUESTION: They were all misdemeanors?MR. DENVIR: Yes, Your Honor. All his -- he had --the prior convictions that he had were felonies were fourfelonies, all occurred within one year, in - -- in onemonth, in . There were three first-degree burglaryconvictions, and then there was one robbery conviction. He had other --QUESTION: Well, now, those surely are notmisdemeanors.MR. DENVIR: No, Your Honor. I was -- I thoughtJustice Kennedy's question was directed not to the -- whatthey call the "strike priors," but to the fact that he didhave other --QUESTION: Oh, other than --MR. DENVIR: -- previous crimes that weremisdemeanors.QUESTION: -- other than the burglaries.MR. DENVIR: I think that's -- the sentencing judgerelied on that, to some degree, in denying him anydiscretionary --QUESTION: Now --MR. DENVIR: -- relief.QUESTION: -- it actually went back to , didn'tit, with grand theft in ', grand theft in '?MR. DENVIR: Your Honor, the grand theft actuallywas a misdemeanor, as we've shown in the appendix to our replybrief. There was -- there was a misconception that that was afelony. And in fact, it was a misdemeanor in Ohio, thefirst --QUESTION: That was the Ohio offense.MR. DENVIR: I -- QUESTION: The --MR. DENVIR: I'm sorry.QUESTION: -- the one that was alleged to be afelony, I think, in the government's brief --MR. DENVIR: Is in --QUESTION: -- I think that it was only amisdemeanor.MR. DENVIR: In fact, we've attached the governingcourt records as an appendix to our reply brief that shows itwas a misdemeanor.QUESTION: How many -- how many convictions in all,felonies plus misdemeanors?MR. DENVIR: Your Honor, I believe that he had thefour -- the four prior convictions -- the strike convictions,the felonies, and I think he had another nine misdemeanors, and then this present offense. I think that's the --QUESTION: And the purpose of the three-strikes law,as I understand it, is to take off of the streets that verysmall proportion of people who commit an enormously highproportion of crimes. I forget what the statistics are, butit's something like, you know, of those convicted, percentcommit percent of the crimes. It sounds to me like yourclient is a very good candidate for that law.MR. DENVIR: We got -- we got --QUESTION: I mean, if that's a reasonable law. It seems to me this is precisely the kind of person you want toget off the streets. He's obviously going to do it again.MR. DENVIR: Your Honor, we believe that the law, initself, is not unreasonable and it could result in aproportionate sentence. It did not in this case.Under this Court's decision in Solem versus Helm,the Court has said that you can look to the prior record asrelevant to the sentencing decision because it aggravates thepresent crime, but the focus must remain on the present crime.QUESTION: Well, Solem stands with Rummel and withHarmelin. They're really three different points, and Solem isprobably the case that favors you most. But certainly Rummelis good law, and Harmelin is good law. And I think thosecases don't favor you.MR. DENVIR: Well, Your Honor, I believe that Rummel -- the Court said in Solem -- the majority opinion saidthat Rummel would be controlling only in a similar factualsituation. We do not believe we have that here. And as faras Harmelin was concerned, the basic principles of Solem werereaffirmed by seven justices in Harmelin and, we believe, whenapplied here, will show that this is a grosslydisproportionate sentence.QUESTION: Mr. Denvir, would you clarify whetheryour challenge is strictly as applied? Because some of the --some of the points that you make seem to be going to the statute wholesale. So, for example, you talk about it -- thestatute's infirm, because it has no washout for agingoffenses, but there was no such offense at stake here. Thestrikes were all rather recent.MR. DENVIR: That's correct, Your Honor. And --QUESTION: So --MR. DENVIR: -- and to answer your question, we arechallenging only the sentence that Mr. Ewing received for thecrime that he committed, that he was sentenced at. There'smuch discussion on both sides of -- as -- I -- as thebackground of the three-strikes law. We have no doubt thethree-strikes law could result in a -- in a constitutionalsentence. It did not, in this case. So however the scheme isthat reached this sentence, this life sentence for stealing three golf clubs, that sentence is -- falls under the EighthAmendment, in our view.QUESTION: But we -- so we should leave out thingslike no washout, that someone who never served any time wouldsubject to the three strikes --MR. DENVIR: I think that's correct, Your Honor,that they don't play into this case. And I think that -- as Isaid, that the three-strikes law is merely -- it's the processthat produced an unconstitutional sentence. It could havebeen produced by a different sentencing scheme, also. QUESTION: Well, when we're examining theconstitutionality of the three-strikes law, as applied to thissentence, we should take into account, should we not, thepurposes of the California law, which was to have a law whichwas -- gave simple, clear notice of the three-strikes policy? And if you want us to take case-by-case, then that wholepolicy is undercut, it seems to me.MR. DENVIR: Well, Your Honor, I don't -- I don'tthink that's true. In Solem v. Helm, the Court made veryclear that it was looking only to the sentence that wasimposed on Mr. Helm.QUESTION: Yeah, I was going to ask you about that,because you had said that the principal focus has to be onthis sentence. I'm just not sure what your authority for thatis when we have a recidivist scheme of this kind. MR. DENVIR: Well, Your Honor, the -- inSolem versus Helm, the Court, of course, had a recidivistscheme. The focus there was on number of prior offenses, asopposed to the nature of the prior offenses. The Court saidthat the defendant, under double-jeopardy principles, cannotbe punished for those prior crimes; however, they are relevantto the -- to the sentence imposed for the present crime. Andthe -- and the reason they are relative -- and the Court saidthis best in Gryger versus Burke -- is what they -- whatthey -- what they authorize is a, quote, "stiffened penalty for the latest crime, which is considered to be an aggravatedoffense because of repetitive one." That's at page in ourreply brief.But what Solem v. Helm made very clear is, althoughthe prior crimes are relevant, the focus must remain, whenjudging proportionality or gross disproportionality, on whatthis -- what this defendant did at this time, what he is beingsentenced for at this time.QUESTION: I'm just not sure how that works. Whatam I supposed to do with recidivism as a factor in analyzingthis sentence?MR. DENVIR: Your Honor --QUESTION: Give it some weight, but not controllingweight, or something like that?MR. DENVIR: -- I think that what the Court can say is that his prior crimes are relevant, in the sense that theymake this crime a more aggravated crime than a crime committedby a first offender --QUESTION: Well --MR. DENVIR: -- and that there can be a reasonableenhancement for that. But in this case, he has been sentencedto -- he has -- his sentence has gone from a maximum of threeyears for a first offender to life, all based on therecidivism.QUESTION: Well, why -- MR. DENVIR: At that point --QUESTION: -- why can't the State say that -- wherea person has a string of convictions like this man has, thatit's time to get him off the street, as Justice Scalia says,that he simply cannot conform to the law?MR. DENVIR: Your Honor, if he, in fact, committed acrime at this point that was a serious or a violent crime,they may have a basis, but what the Court has said veryclearly is that --QUESTION: What --MR. DENVIR: -- is the focus remains on this,because otherwise --QUESTION: What --MR. DENVIR: -- he's being punished for the priorcrimes. I'm sorry, Your Honor.QUESTION: Well, what's the reason for saying thatthough -- that you can only -- that the focus remains on thiscrime, but others are relevant? I mean, that really is kindof meaningless, it seems to me.MR. DENVIR: Well, I don't think so, Your Honor,because, as I say, what the Court has said over the years isthat the important part about the prior crimes is that itshows that this is a repeat offense. And the fact that he hascommitted offenses in a row makes this particular offenseworse. The fact that he has committed worse offenses in the past does not aggravate this crime. I -- this is -- thisstill remains shoplifting three golf clubs, regardless if hehad been a triple murderer or anything else, and that's whathe's being punished for. Because if he's being punishedbecause of those prior crimes, their nature, there's reallyserious double jeopardy --QUESTION: What do you think would be enough? Thirty years? Would you like years for walking off withthree golf clubs?MR. DENVIR: Your Honor, I -- the -- if you -- ifyou look at our --QUESTION: I mean, if you're going to look on it asjust stealing three golf clubs, and cast a blind eye to hislong record of criminal activity, I don't know why you cangive him any more than, you know, a couple of years. MR. DENVIR: Well, Your Honor, if you look to our --to the comparison with other jurisdictions -- and I just don'tthink this has been highlighted in our brief -- there areonly -- there are only five jurisdictions that would haveallowed a life sentence. There's only one additionaljurisdiction, Montana, that would have allowed a term of yearsas great as the minimum sentence here, and that's -- Montanaallows -- is five to a hundred years. And most states allowfor either grand theft or recidivist grand theft --QUESTION: But we said -- MR. DENVIR: -- ten years at the most.QUESTION: -- we said in Rummel, there's alwaysgoing to be some state that punishes more harshly than others. And certainly it was not intimated that that state, therefore,would -- it was cruel and unusual.MR. DENVIR: No, that's correct, Your Honor. InSolem v. Helm, the Court noted that he could -- that Mr. Helmcould have received a comparable sentence in one other state,and nevertheless held that it fell under the Eighth Amendment.QUESTION: Well, just help us one more time. Theprior history is relevant, but then how relevant?MR. DENVIR: Well, Your --QUESTION: You say the principal focus has to be onthe three golf clubs, like we're some judges out of VictorHugo or something and that's all we have to focus on. Butthis -- there's a -- there's a long recidivism component here,and that's the whole purpose of the California law that you'reasking us to ignore, it seems to me.MR. DENVIR: Your Honor, and -- what I'm sayingis -- I'm going back to what the Court said in Solem v. Helmin its analysis, which I think is controlling here. Itmade -- it made the point that the -- the prior convictions --he cannot be punished for those, but they do aggravate thispresent crime that he's being punished for. And the way theyaggravate it is that -- is that this shows that it's a repetitive offense.Now, he can have a reasonable enhancement of thenormal penalty for grand theft based on the repetition aspectof it, but at some point it becomes unreasonable. And itbecomes unreasonable if you go from three years to life basedon his prior crimes. At that --QUESTION: Why isn't it reasonable to say if hecommits another felony -- he's committed, you know, threealready and nine other convictions -- "One more felony,"California tells him, "and you go away for life." Why isn'tthat reasonable? And this -- and this was a felony.MR. DENVIR: Because of the nature of the crime thathe committed, which is stealing three golf clubs, a crime thatis not deemed either serious or violent under California law.QUESTION: But is a felony under California law. MR. DENVIR: It is a felony. It's actually awobbler and could be charged either way.QUESTION: Why --MR. DENVIR: But in this case, it's a felony.QUESTION: Why can't California decide that enoughis enough, that someone with a long string like this simplydeserves to be put away?MR. DENVIR: Well, Your Honor, if that were true,then there would be no limiting principle on recidivist lawsunder the Eighth Amendment. It would -- at that point, you could say the mere fact that he broke any law -- if he broke atraffic offense -- a petty offense would show that he couldn'tfollow the law and could get a life sentence.QUESTION: Oh, I'd be with you there, if it was amisdemeanor or, you know, some -- but this is a felony underCalifornia law.MR. DENVIR: It is a felony, and it's one of theleast grave felonies in California.QUESTION: But we have given -- we've said, atleast, here, that we are going to give great latitude to statelegislatures in determining how many years to give, and how tocategorize an offense.Why don't -- why don't we look to the Harmelin casefor the standards, rather than Solem? Harmelin came later.MR. DENVIR: Well, Your Honor, I think you do, because, as I understand the Harmelin case, if you take thedissent and the plurality, they both agreed on the basicprinciple here, which is that there cannot be grossdisproportion between the offense and the sentence. And thereason I go back to Solem versus Helm is that it was arecidivist case and there was some further information.I don't -- as I read the Court's opinion, at leastthe plurality opinion, in Harmelin, the big change was thatyou would -- you would not look automatically to intra­jurisdictional or inter-jurisdictional comparisons. You would first have to find an inference of gross disproportionalitybefore you'd go to the second -- the other two steps. That'swhat I understood to be the major -- the major refinement ofSolem v. Helm that was in the plurality opinion.QUESTION: I'm slightly stuck on this, because I --I'd like -- there is some relevant information that I can'tget a hold of, and you may have some in your experience, butit isn't in the brief.Imagine -- let's take the set of people who havecommitted at least two serious crimes or more, maybe serious crimes. They're very serious criminals. And they'rewarned, "If you do anything again, you've had it." So thinkof that set of people.Now, I would like to know, in light of that set ofpeople, now one of the members of that set commits a crime equal to stealing $ -- whether they steal $ or equalto that; that's a very subjective judgment -- what's thelongest sentence such a person has ever actually served? Here, they are going to years, real years.And the second question I'd like to know is, What isthe least bad crime that such a person ever committed who didserve real years?MR. DENVIR: Well, Your Honor --QUESTION: I'd like to know both of those things. And, obviously, they're find-outable. MR. DENVIR: I -- let me see if I can answer yourquestion. As far as under the three-strikes law, there is --because it sets this absolute minimum of years -- it's alife sentence, but it adds a kicker to it which says, unlikeother life sentences, you have to wait at least yearsbefore you can even be considered. So we -- since this lawwas passed in , we have no experience with this law.QUESTION: Obviously, I don't want experience --MR. DENVIR: Right.QUESTION: -- under this law. That would becircular.MR. DENVIR: Well, Your Honor --QUESTION: What I'm looking for is, in the absenceof this law --MR. DENVIR: Oh, I'm sorry. I understand --QUESTION: -- in the absence of this law, what isthe longest sentence a person like yours -- and I'm defining"a person like yours" to be a really bad criminal who now willcommit another crime equal to or the same as stealing $. And there's loads of records -- I mean, in the CaliforniaAdult Authority before this law was passed, et cetera.And the second question is, what is the least badthing such a person who really served years did?MR. DENVIR: Your -- QUESTION: That -- those are empirical questions,and you're talking about this being unusual. I don't know ifit's unusual unless I know what happened to other people.MR. DENVIR: Well, Your Honor, I don't -- I --there's nothing in the record that would answer that, but letme see if I can answer it in a different way. But for thethree-strike law, Mr. Ewing, with his record, could receive nomore than four years. Now, there are other recidivist laws inCalifornia besides the three-strike law.QUESTION: Under the California Adult Authority,which was only the law in California for years, peoplecould receive very, very, very long sentences.MR. DENVIR: They could, Your Honor, and Californiais --QUESTION: And -- not this long for this thing, but -- but -- but --MR. DENVIR: I think that's right. I think the longsentence -- the -- California substituted determinatesentencing law for indeterminate in , and -- but under theold indeterminate sentencing law, my clear recollection isthat those long, indeterminate sentences were always triggeredby serious or violent felonies, and that is something that --QUESTION: No, they -- I've looked it up,actually --MR. DENVIR: No? QUESTION: -- and you're quite right that this isnot as -- you couldn't get this long a sentence, but you couldget a pretty long one for being a third offender andcommitting a property crime.MR. DENVIR: And --QUESTION: But I -- that doesn't tell us how longthe people actually served.MR. DENVIR: Well, Your Honor, if you look for thequestion of parole in California, which the -- which the Statesuggests is -- saves his life sentence, the Court looked atthis in in the case California Department of Correctionsversus Moralez. And what the Court said at that time was that percent of all defendants who came up for their firstparole hearing were found unsuitable for parole and that percent were found unsuitable at subsequent hearings. Now,that has not improved any, because, as you'll see in theamicus brief of Families Against Mandatory Minimums, at page, as of , the Board of Prison Terms, which is the --which is the parole authority -- their official records showthat they only recommended parole in percent of the cases that came before them with a life sentence.QUESTION: Mr. Denvir, can't the people of -- thisthing, by the way, was not adopted by the legislature, was it? It was adopted by plebiscite, of the people of California --MR. DENVIR: By both, Your Honor. QUESTION: By both.MR. DENVIR: Both by legislature and by --QUESTION: By plebiscite. So the people ofCalifornia decided, "We want to be tougher." Why do we haveto be bound by whatever the more permissive scheme wasearlier? The people of California knew that scheme, and theydecided, "This is no good. We still have too much crime. We're not punishing people enough, or we're not keepingthem -- keeping them incarcerated long enough." Why do wehave to be bound by whatever the previous record was?MR. DENVIR: Well --QUESTION: It seems to me the question before us is,is it unreasonable to put away somebody who has this record?MR. DENVIR: Your Honor, first of all, as to thequestion of initiative versus legislation, it is my understanding that the Court, in other areas, has said thatthere's no greater deference given to one than the other.But the other question is, there's no doubt thatsome deference has to be paid by this Court to legislativejudgments or initiative judgments in the questions ofpunishment and in dealing with recidivists. The Court hasmade that very clear. But it is that deference that has ledto the Court setting a very forgiving standard. The Courtsaid that it would not require, in this area, or as excessivefines, strict proportionality between the crime being punished and the sentence. It has said it was only when there was agross disproportion, and that's a very deferential standard. That is a standard that allows the legislature to make manyreasonable judgments, but says that --QUESTION: So how do you decide --MR. DENVIR: -- some judgments are unreasonable.QUESTION: -- how much is too much?MR. DENVIR: Well, Your Honor --QUESTION: What's the --MR. DENVIR: -- life imprisonment for -- for thecrime of stealing three golf clubs, we believe, is cruel andunusual punishment.QUESTION: It's not life imprisonment.QUESTION: But we're just doing --QUESTION: It's years.MR. DENVIR: Your Honor --QUESTION: It's years that he'll really serve. We know that. As far as -- what happens after those yearsis a matter of parole or a decision by other people.MR. DENVIR: Your Honor, the sentence that he's beengiven is life in prison. He's been consigned to die in prisonunless some administrative agency determines to let him out. And as I've just quoted you --QUESTION: But I mean, parole, in all the casesyou're citing, is relevant, so you can describe it as you want. We both know what the facts are. The facts are he hasto be in jail for at least years, and then he might beparoled.MR. DENVIR: And he might be, but on -- there isno -- there is nothing in this record that would suggest hehas a reasonable expectation in that regard. In fact -- infact, what's before the Court would suggest that there is nota reasonable expectation, particularly if the animus thatdrives -- that drove the passage of this law continues for years and they still think, "Well, gee, if they committedthese prior crimes, they ought to be locked up for life,because they may commit other crimes."QUESTION: In the statistics that you were quoting,though, those were not three-strikes cases.MR. DENVIR: Those are not three-strikes cases. QUESTION: Those are cases where people might havegotten reduced time for good behavior --MR. DENVIR: That's correct.QUESTION: -- none of which is -- and one question Iwanted to ask you, in view of the infirmities of Mr. Ewing --is he still alive?MR. DENVIR: He is alive, Your Honor. He is --QUESTION: Counselor --MR. DENVIR: -- he's lost -- he's aged and has losteyesight in one eye as a result, but he's still alive at this point --QUESTION: How old was he at the time of sentence?MR. DENVIR: He was years old. He's years oldnow. So --QUESTION: Counselor --MR. DENVIR: -- as a practical matter -- I mean,this -- years is probably a life sentence for him, unlessthere's some major medical development that --QUESTION: Mr. Denvir, you conceded a moment agothat the prior offenses can be considered for purposes oftreating this offense as an aggravated offense, given theprior record; and yet when you answer -- you've done this morethan once -- when you have answered the question of going todisproportionality, you have said, "It's to life forstealing three golf clubs."I don't think you can have it both ways. Eitheryour argument is it's -- the appropriate comparison is --or the appropriate characterization is " to life for threegolf clubs," in which case you, in effect, are telling us,"Ignore the priors; they don't aggravate," or you've got tosay, "It's to life for stealing three golf clubs when youhave a prior record" -- whatever it was, nine prior offenses,including four felonies, in this case. Which is it? BecauseI assume it may well affect the result.MR. DENVIR: Your Honor, I -- if -- I misspoke. What we say is the focus must be on the present offense. Itis an aggravated offense. He is a repeat --QUESTION: But when you said that --MR. DENVIR: -- a repeat offender. He is a repeatoffender. He is someone who committed this offense with aprior record of nine offenses?"QUESTION: Is it inconsistent with your position --when you say, "The focus must be on this offense," is itinconsistent with that to say, "This offense -- is stealingthree golf clubs worth $ by somebody with a prior recordof nine offenses"? Is that consistent with putting the focuson this offense, in the terms that you're using?MR. DENVIR: I think it is, in the sense that itshows that there has -- there has been some -- there has beena series of repetition. But what I'm suggesting to the Court is that regardless of the repetition, the fact that it's arepetitive offense, if the focus remains on what he did now,the triggering offense, which, under Solem v. Helm, is thefocus, then no matter what he has done in the past, no matterhow much repetition, it is --it is grossly disproportional tosentence him to a life sentence. At that point --QUESTION: A hundred prior instances of stealingthree golf clubs would not affect the analysis then on yourview?MR. DENVIR: Your Honor, if there -- if there were a -- if there were a series of crimes of the same nature --for instance, if there --QUESTION: Well, I've just -- I've just given youone.MR. DENVIR: Yes.QUESTION: A hundred prior -- three golf clubs everytime, a hundred times -- would that justify the treatment thathe has gotten?MR. DENVIR: Your Honor, I think that that would --that would show a propensity to steal golf clubs, but, again,I don't believe --QUESTION: I would concede that, but the --(Laughter.) MR. DENVIR: -- I don't believe --QUESTION: Posit further that his score has not improved.(Laughter.) MR. DENVIR: He shouldn't be penalized for that. That may be beyond his control.QUESTION: Okay, but if we -- if we've got our crazyexample of a hundred priors exactly like this, and we followyour verbal criterion at least of focusing on this offense asaggravated, would this be disproportionate, grossly?MR. DENVIR: I believe that life is, because it isstill -- the crime that has to be punished -- I mean, and this is what the Court said in Solem v. Helm -- this is --QUESTION: Well, maybe we were trying --MR. DENVIR: -- you know, in Solem v. Helm --QUESTION: -- maybe we were trying to have it bothways verbally because we were imprecise. But with respect, Ithink that's what you're trying to do. Because on the onehand, you concede, yes, it may be regarded as an aggravatedoffense in light of the priors, and then in the next breathyou say, "But the focus has got to be on this offense."MR. DENVIR: Your Honor, I -- Your Honor, there's nodoubt that the prior record -- and the Court has said that isrelevant to the punishment for the present crime, and it doesaggravate it. But there are limits to how aggravatedshoplifting three golf clubs can be, no matter what hashappened before --QUESTION: Even with the hundred prior instances?MR. DENVIR: Your Honor, it's still three -- it'sstill stealing three golf clubs. It's not robbery, rape,murder, or something of that nature. I mean, it is -- it isstill there. I mean, the -- to raise your question, what ifsomeone had a long history of jay-walking and had seven or tenor a hundred convictions for jay-walking and jay-walked again? I think the Court would not say you could get a life sentencefor that just --QUESTION: I don't -- MR. DENVIR: -- because it's repetitive.QUESTION: -- I don't think it would. And thereason it wouldn't is -- I assume you would concede -- is thatjay-walking does not hurt other people the way instancesof stealing golf clubs worth $ hurts other people.MR. DENVIR: It hurts in the sense that it's aproperty crime and causes --QUESTION: Well, you know, and --MR. DENVIR: -- a loss, that's correct.QUESTION: -- and may lead to something beyondproperty crime. Isn't grand larceny much more likely toresult in physical confrontation and --MR. DENVIR: Your Honor, I --QUESTION: -- physical injury than jay-walking?MR. DENVIR: -- Your -- it is -- it is, Your Honor, and I think --QUESTION: Which is why it's a felony.MR. DENVIR: -- and I think that if there had beensome -- some violence that had actually occurred out of this,then he undoubtedly would have been punished under a differentstatute with higher --QUESTION: It's a serious crime, in part because ofthat -- in part because of the risk of physical confrontationthat it poses.MR. DENVIR: But Your Honor, California determined that when it set the ranges for grand theft --QUESTION: Would you like -- would you like to reserve time,Mr. Denvir?MR. DENVIR: If the Court has further questions, I'drather answer the questions --QUESTION: Very well --MR. DENVIR: -- than reserve time.QUESTION: Very well. You asked for it, you --MR. DENVIR: California considered that when theyset the penalties for grand theft. And they set the penaltyas a maximum of three years in prison. If they set differentpenalties for grand theft from a person, and for robbery,there is -- there is -- all those things are taken intoconsideration here. And the fact that this could haveeventuated into something else, the fact of the matter is that it did not. And in fact, if anything, Mr. Ewing seemed to bedoing everything he can to be -- to get out of thereundetected, if that -- if you look at the facts of this crime.QUESTION: I'm curious about one thing. Was hereally a very tall man, or were these irons rather than wood?(Laughter.) MR. DENVIR: Your Honor, to tell you the truth, Ihave no idea how he could have done that. It seems to me amiracle that he could have -- actually got out the door, buthe apparently did. He's not a very tall man, as I recall. QUESTION: It is a good thing that walking is not anessential part of golf, because otherwise walking withthose --MR. DENVIR: I think --QUESTION: -- golf clubs in his pants would havebeen very difficult.(Laughter.) MR. DENVIR: I think he was planning on removingthem before he used them, I take it --QUESTION: He took a golf cart out to the car.(Laughter.) MR. DENVIR: Your Honor, I would reserve anyadditional time, unless there's additional questions.QUESTION: Very well, Mr. Denvir.MR. DENVIR: Thank you.QUESTION: Mr. De Nicola, we'll hear from you.ORAL ARGUMENT OF DONALD E. DE NICOLAON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTMR. DE NICOLA: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it pleasethe Court: First, I think, in answer to Justice Breyer'squestion, I don't know what the statistics are under the oldindeterminate sentencing law that was in effect in Californiauntil . But in a way, I think the -- Your Honor'squestion triggers an issue that I think is central here.The ISL, the old California law, was premised very explicitly on a penological theory that emphasizedrehabilitation of the offender. I think the question that'sraised in this case, and it's a question that's particularlyapt in light of the Harmelin opinion, is, when can a statedecide that they're going to move away from a more lenientpolicy of rehabilitation or extending leniency to a first-time offender, and move toward a policy, a tougher policy, ofincapacitation?QUESTION: So, tell me, am I fair to assume therenever, in the history of the United States, has been a personwho -- of the set -- I'm only -- I don't want to bepejorative; I want to characterize it your way, and I'llcharacterize it as taking the set of very serious criminalswith very serious records, and a person in that set commitsanother crime, and the other crime is approximately theft of $ -- and am I fair in saying there hasn't been, ever, asentence in the history of the United States in the lasthundred years anywhere close to this one? And I base that onmy knowledge -- which you could get; it's public -- of ,real cases in the federal system where to get a sentence likethis one for a prior offender, you had to -- you have to now,you know, hijack an airplane, commit murder, something reallyserious beyond belief compared to this, and that the worstsentence you could get for something like this is about four,five years. And then I look to the California Adult Authority,and I see, under that sentencing, nobody could have gottenmore than ten real years, and, indeed, the average wassomewhere around five. And you have all those records, andyou have come up with nothing in your brief. And therefore,can I say -- my assumption is, this is by an order or factorof two or three times higher than anyone ever was sentencedbefore in the United States for such a thing?You see, I'm making a very extreme statementempirically, and I want to know what the response is to mystatement, and I want to know why I shouldn't hold you to mystatement since you have the information, and why I shouldn'tsay that's just way too much.MR. DE NICOLA: Well, again, Your Honor, I -- the --my answer is that I do not know what those records would have shown.QUESTION: I guess he shouldn't hold you to it,since you don't have the burden of persuasion here, do you? Ithought you're defending a -- a decision below.MR. DE NICOLA: Yes, and I did interpret the issueto be a proportionality issue rather than an unusualnessissue. But I do -- something in the recesses of my mind tellsme that we had a three-time loser statute in California, and Ithink that put people away for life without parole.QUESTION: Well, all right, how do we decide --how do we decide if you say, of this serious set of criminals, yougo to jail for life if you jay-walk -- I mean, the next time. Is that -- is that disproportionate? How am I supposed to saywhat is or was -- is not if I don't look to the empiricalfacts? And I'm not holding you to present empirical facts. I'm just saying, Why shouldn't I decide on the basis ofempirical fact that is available?MR. DE NICOLA: Well, in our view, the mostprominent, kind of, objective factor that this Court couldlook to in weighing this sentence is what the legislature hassaid are felonies. What California has done in this case is,they've narrowed their target to a subclass of felons who havecommitted what the legislature has deemed to be -- and I thinkwhat, on the face of it, can reasonably be interpreted asbeing -- serious or violent crimes.QUESTION: What's the limit for being -- what is thedividing line between grand theft and petty theft inCalifornia?MR. DE NICOLA: Four hundred dollars, Your Honor.QUESTION: When I went to law school, it was $,except if it was citrus you stole, it was $.(Laughter.) MR. DE NICOLA: Now it's $ if it's citrus.(Laughter.) MR. DE NICOLA: But once there is that predicate of serious or violent felonies set in place, then what the three-strikes law does is, I think, reasonably moves toward a policyof incapacitation upon the commission of, not just any newcrime, not a misdemeanor or an infraction, but a new crimethat the legislature has --QUESTION: One of the things that puzzles me aboutthe statute -- maybe you can enlighten me -- I thought that ifthere were two priors that were violent but not related toproperty, such as murder and rape, that the third related toproperty wouldn't trigger the statute.MR. DE NICOLA: No, Your Honor. The way the statuteis written is that if the prior felonies meet the statutorydefinition of being serious or violent -- if you have two ofthose, then any new felony triggers the three-strike sentence.QUESTION: Even if you -- if you had, say, a murder conviction and a rape conviction and then you committed awobbler that was a property crime? Would the statute treatthat as a third strike?MR. DE NICOLA: Yes, because wobblers are felonies,by definition, in California, and any felony qualifies.QUESTION: Regardless of the character of the firsttwo strikes.MR. DE NICOLA: As long as the first two strikesmeet the level of being serious or violent, which --QUESTION: I see. So -- and there's no requirement that it be related to property. I misunderstood.MR. DE NICOLA: No, Your Honor.QUESTION: All right.QUESTION: Also, I don't know how to work withfelony and misdemeanor, because, across the nation, myimpression is that those are classified in very differentways, and they're classified sometimes according to the prisonthat you serve in, as in Massachusetts, and sometimes you canfind a felony that, in ordinary common sense, is a lot lessserious than certain misdemeanors. That's why I'm very pushedto know what to work with unless you work with empirical fact.MR. DE NICOLA: Well, we -- in California, thefelony is defined by the -- not just the locus of where theterm will be served, but also by the length. It's more than ayear. And we think that that's a traditional line of demarcation between offenses that, over the course of time,society deems to be of elevated seriousness.QUESTION: I think some of our constitutionaljurisprudence makes it -- makes -- turns upon the distinctionbetween felonies and misdemeanors, doesn't it?MR. DE NICOLA: Yes, Your Honor, I think that is so,and there are political restraints on the legislature inenacting laws in general applicability. There are certainlyeconomic restraints on a legislature in deciding to set apunishment scheme that provides for long terms of imprisonment. That's costly. And that to -- for a court tosecond-guess that, comes, we think, perilously close to thecourt suggesting that the legislature can, in some instances,not declare a certain crime to be a felony, but must declareit to be a misdemeanor, and we don't think there's anything inthe Court's jurisprudence that would -- that would supportthat type of an intrusion.QUESTION: Mr. De Nicola, there's a lot ofdiscretion built into this scheme. It comes across as threestrikes and you're out, and that's it; but it's not. There'sdiscretion in the prosecutor and discretion in the judge. Arethere, in Los Angeles or in California, any guides toprosecutors in exercising their discretion, say, whether totreat a wobbler as a misdemeanor or a felony?MR. DE NICOLA: There are no statewide standards. Each elected district attorney in the various counties inCalifornia has the option of promulgating guidelines. Some ofthem have. And the fact of the matter is some of them -- someof them differ. We think that's a rather unremarkable eventin light of the fact that prosecutorial discretion is alwaysgoing to lead to some sort of different approach depending onlocal conditions. But there is not, as far as I know, anystatewide guideline, and certainly nothing that would bebinding on the local prosecutors.QUESTION: The prosecutor can charge something as a misdemeanor. As far as the striking a strike is concerned, isthat solely for the judge? Or, I suppose, it depends onwhat's charged. The prosecutor can decide not to charge twostrikes.MR. DE NICOLA: Yes, the prosecutor, under thestatute, is required to allege the priors, but the prosecutormay seek dismissal of the prior strikes either in thefurtherance of justice, or because of problems of proof. Butthe judge also has authority to strike strikes, even withoutthe consent of the prosecutor, in California. And so --QUESTION: And similarly, to reduce a wobbler to amisdemeanor.MR. DE NICOLA: Yes, the prosecutor, in a way, hasthat discretion, because he or she can charge a -- analternative felony or misdemeanor as a misdemeanor in the first place, but even under the three-strikes law, the trialjudge retains the discretion to sentence a -- an alternativefelony misdemeanor as a misdemeanor, and that would take thecase out of the three-strikes scope.QUESTION: May I ask you a question about yourtheory of the limits of the constitutional protection here? Supposing the offense was speeding -- and it can be dangerousspeeding -- and you had a -- you said that -- arrests forspeeding gives you this very sentence we got in this case. Would that be permissible, do you think? Just on the theory that Justice Scalia has explained -- where this guy is justtoo dangerous, we just don't want him on the street anymore,so we'll put him in jail for life, years withoutpossibility of parole.MR. DE NICOLA: Well, we think that might possiblybe constitutional, Your Honor. I --QUESTION: Possibly be constitutional orunconstitutional?MR. DE NICOLA: Might possibly be constitutional. Ithink it's more likely that it would be --QUESTION: Well, why wouldn't it clearly beconstitutional if we're thinking about protecting the publicfrom repetitive offenders?MR. DE NICOLA: Well, because I think the limiting principle that we're seeking here, Your Honor, is one that'spremised on the felony classification. If the --QUESTION: Do you think the statute would have beenunconstitutional if they had said it's a misdemeanor when it's$ -- if the legislature just, say, called the three golfclubs for $ by a misdemeanor instead of by felony, wouldthat change the constitutional analysis?MR. DE NICOLA: It -- I think it would make theconstitutional -- it might change the constitutional analysis. It might make the result different. I think, again, once youhave the predicate in place of the serious or violentfelonies, then I think the reason you're --QUESTION: But serious or violent -- it reallydoesn't have to be violent; it has to serious. But you couldhave had $ thefts, four or five of them, and he wouldstill qualify, wouldn't he?MR. DE NICOLA: No, Your Honor. If -- the priorcrimes have to qualify as serious or violent under thedefinitions of a separate statutory scheme, so they wouldnot --QUESTION: But are there not serious crimes that arenot violent?MR. DE NICOLA: Yes, I think that's true. There areserious crimes where no injury is inflicted, but the crimes, I think, by their nature, tend to be crimes where the prospectof violence is rather imminent.QUESTION: But they're -- I'm just trying to -- I'mtrying to understand the theory. Is violence an absoluterequirement, in your view, in one of the priors?MR. DE NICOLA: No, I think -- I think --QUESTION: Okay. So then we could have somethingequivalent -- maybe instead of $, $ or something. Butif you just had five -- or three or four $, burglaries,that -- do you -- would that be permissible to put him in jail on the same sentence that you have in this case?MR. DE NICOLA: I -- again, Your Honor, I -- it'sa -- it's a much tougher call. I think it might bepermissible to do it, provided that the sentence allows for apossibility of parole, after the --QUESTION: After years.MR. DE NICOLA: Yes. That would distinguish it fromSolem, Your Honor. But nevertheless, here, the predicate,even though the prior crimes don't necessarily have to involvethe actual infliction of violence, they are crimes that bytheir nature --QUESTION: But in your view, violence is really moresignificant than the number of prior offenses, if I understandyou correctly.MR. DE NICOLA: Well, I think it might be a sliding scale, but I think violence does play a significant role andcan justify a scheme like this, even in the absence --QUESTION: Okay.MR. DE NICOLA: -- of a great number of priors.QUESTION: But you -- but I'm not quite sure whatyour view would be if there were no violence, but just sevenor eight high-speed offenses, say, speeding, or $ golfclubs.MR. DE NICOLA: Well, we think a lot would depend onwhether the legislature in the jurisdiction had determined for -- for -- on an historical basis and for reasonsindependent --QUESTION: Well, speeding is dangerous. People gethurt in automobile accidents. It seems to me it's exactly thesame risk to the public that you have with this kind of crime.MR. DE NICOLA: But we think -- if the legislaturedeclares those to be a felony, then I think we become a lot --we come a lot closer to --QUESTION: It depends on what the legislature callsthe offense.MR. DE NICOLA: Yes, it does, Your Honor, in a verysignificant respect, because what the legislature calls theoffense in connection with it being a misdemeanor or a felonydoes reflect, we think, a reliable longstanding consensus ofthe -- of the community. And under the Harmelin principles of deference and reliance and objective factors, we think that'sa prominent objective factor.QUESTION: On Justice Stevens' hypo, taking it onestep further, I guess we would have to say that if there were prior speeding offenses, and they had been classified asfelonies in California, that there was no disproportionbetween -to-life for -- with a predicate of priorspeeding offenses, on the one hand, and the penalties fortorture and murder, on the other hand. Because I think it'sundisputed that the only standalone penalties that are this great are the penalties for torture and homicide. That wouldbe rather a stretch, wouldn't it, regardless of whether thelegislature wants to put a felony label on them or not?MR. DE NICOLA: Well, again, Your Honor --QUESTION: Speeding's important, but --MR. DE NICOLA: Yes.QUESTION: -- I mean, torture and murder?MR. DE NICOLA: I do think that it is a much toughercase for us, and I'm not at all certain that it would beconstitutional if all of the crimes, the predicate through thenew crime, were simply speeding. I think --QUESTION: Might it be an abuse of the judge'sdiscretion not to reduce such a -- if it's a wobbler, in sucha case, or not to strike a strike?MR. DE NICOLA: Well, I don't -- in the Californiacontext, the question would only arise -- well, I don't thinkit would arise at all, because you wouldn't have a speeding --even as a predicate, any felony-triggering offense, and thespeeding wouldn't qualify as a serious or violent felony underthe statute anyway. So this hypothetical is very far removedfrom the three-strikes scheme that California has in place.QUESTION: I would have thought that your responseto Justice Souter would have been that it might seemdisproportionate insofar as the penal goal of punishment orretribution is concerned, but it depends on what you want your penal goals to be. California has decided that disabling thecriminal is the most important thing, and in -- from thatpoint of view, it's not necessarily disproportionate. The oneis disabled as the other.MR. DE NICOLA: Well --QUESTION: I mean, proportionality -- younecessarily have to look upon what the principal objective ofthe punishment is. If the objective of -- if the objective isretribution, then, sure, I guess it's disproportionate toexecute somebody for killing only one person, when you do nomore than execute somebody for killing people. But if yourpurpose is disabling the criminal, I'm not sure that it --that the example that Justice Souter gave is disproportionate.MR. DE NICOLA: Well, again, Your Honor, I don't --I don't think I would absolutely concede that it would be unconstitutional. I'm just saying that --QUESTION: Well, do you adopt Justice Scalia'sanalysis? I mean, this came up in the briefs, and this was aninteresting point. Does the State, for purposes ofproportionality analysis, have the option to adopt a differenttheory of penalty? And he's given an example. Do you -- doyou adopt that argument here? And do you think that is ajustification that you want to rely on in this case?MR. DE NICOLA: Yes, we do adopt the theory ofincapacitation, and we do rely on incapacitation as a theory that justifies the sentence in this case.QUESTION: All right. Here's the problem that Ihave with that, and this is -- this is -- this is what I wishyou would address. If we allow, for purposes ofproportionality or gross disproportionality analysis, thiskind of -- the consideration of varying intentions --retribution, incapacitation, deterrence, and so on -- andevery time the State gets to a very high offense, the Statesays, "Oh, we've changed the theory. We've gone fromdeterrence to retribution," it seems to me that it makes thiskind of analysis of comparables -- this proportionalityanalysis -- impossible because we no longer have twocomparable entities on either side of our comparison. What wehave is a low sentence on the one hand for deterrence, and ahigh sentence for incapacitation or retribution. We haveapples and oranges instead of oranges and oranges.So my question is, if we accept the State's optionto say, "We've changed the theory," don't we readcomparability analysis right out of the law? Doesn't itsimply become logically impossible?MR. DE NICOLA: Well, I think it becomes much moredifficult, but I don't think it necessarily becomes logicallyimpossible, because I think there is still room for judicialscrutiny, within the context of the Harmelin narrowproportionality principle, to take a hard look -- QUESTION: But my problem is, I don't know whatwe're supposed to -- what we can compare for comparableexamples on proportionality analysis if it can befundamentally affected by the State's change of intention fromone theory in one crime, or one set of penalties, to anothertheory in another set of penalties. I don't see what we cancompare. We no longer have comparables.MR. DE NICOLA: Well, but I think the Court canstill look at whether the phenomenon of -- as in this case, ofheightened recidivism based on prior violence, or seriousoffenses threatening violence and triggered by a new crimethat, say -- that's classified as a felony by the legislatureand that offers a sentence of -- a lengthy sentence, but thatstill offers a possibility of parole --QUESTION: I guess the conclusion that JusticeSouter's questions would lead to is that a State cannot useany factor except retribution. Or if it uses any otherfactor, it does so at the risk of our simply holding it to bedisproportionate.MR. DE NICOLA: Yes, Your Honor --QUESTION: And I don't know that our -- I'm surethat our cases don't support that.MR. DE NICOLA: It -- and I acknowledge it -- toJustice Souter, it makes it a very difficult situation. But under Harmelin, those, I think, are penological objectivesthat the Judiciary ought to defer to the State.QUESTION: But maybe -- maybe, and I -- we've -- wehaven't said this -- maybe our assumption is that the State,in establishing a penal system, is going to establish it on aset of consistent and neutral principles from beginning toend. Would that be a legitimate basis for us to ground ourconstitutional analysis?MR. DE NICOLA: No, Your Honor. It disables thestates from changing -- from dealing with changing conditions.QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. De Nicola.Mr. Chertoff, we'll hear from you.ORAL ARGUMENT OF MICHAEL CHERTOFFON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTMR. CHERTOFF: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it please the Court: I think the last series of questions which JusticeSouter posed to Mr. De Nicola really framed the issue in lightof this case's most recent pronouncement in Harmelin -- thisCourt's most recent pronouncement in Harmelin.I would have read Harmelin as establishing twoprinciples, at a minimum. One is, the analysis is notproportionality; it's gross disproportionality, an extremelyrare basis to invalidate a statute. Second, we recognize thatthe states are entitled to adopt different penologicaltheories, or a mix of theories. In fact, I would have thought that a state's entitled to say, for example, that certaintypes of crimes ought to be addressed in terms of retribution;other types of crimes posing other kinds of issues can bedealt with in terms of deterrence and incapacitation.And if the consequence of that principle is thatthis Court has very limited review on comparability ofsentences, at least where you're dealing with sentences thatallow for the possibility of parole, then I think theconclusion is that it is the extremely rare case in which asentence gets --QUESTION: Well, why isn't that this case? I mean,I don't know how to approach proportionality other than tosay, what sentences are given for the same crime, or whatcrimes are treated with the same sentence?Now, suppose, looking at that, I find this is the rare case. If it isn't, why isn't it? I mean, all theinformation we have, as I've said before, seems to suggestthat this is higher by a factor of two or three times anythingelse you can find. MR. CHERTOFF: Well --QUESTION: Now, if that isn't grosslydisproportionate, why isn't it?MR. CHERTOFF: It's not for several reasons, YourHonor. First of all, although there's nothing in the recordto speak to what the pre- proportions were in terms of sentencing, we do know, for example, that elsewhere in thecountry there have been comparable sentences. We've cited inthe United States --QUESTION: Cited a lot of instances in which the lawpermits such a sentence, but that's quite different fromsaying there was such a sentence.MR. CHERTOFF: Actually, I think in footnote ,we've cited several cases in other states where you have verycomparable punishments, where you have larcenies between -and $ as the third strike --QUESTION: And do you have instances where peoplewere sentenced to real years in prison for having committedsuch an offense? Or were you citing that the law would permitsuch a sentence?MR. CHERTOFF: We cited review and rejection of disproportionality challenges in one case in Nevada to a lifesentence without parole for a grand larceny of --QUESTION: Good, okay, thank you.MR. CHERTOFF: -- $, and a similar one, I think,in South Dakota.Also, of course, as we look at the currentsentencing regime, this is not, as in Solem versus Helm, whereyou have single judge who is apparently an outlier under thestate sentencing scheme. In this case, if one takes, in fact,a petitioner's own figures, you have at least - to individuals whose third strike, under the California scheme asit now exists, has, in fact, been a property-based crime.And I think the most compelling reason why this isnot that very, very rare case where we strike down a sentenceis precisely what Justice Ginsburg has been repeatedly askingabout, the discretion that the courts have to tailor theparticular sentence in this case to the facts of the case. Ifwe look at the record in this case, in the joint appendix, thesentencing judge carefully considered the entirety of the filewith respect to the trigger -- or the predicate offenses,which involved, actually, three burglaries in the course of asingle month, one of which involved pulling a knife andthreatening somebody, as well as at least nine prior offenses.And interestingly, in no case since had thepetitioner ever successfully completed probation or parole. He was always violating probation or parole by committing hisnext offense. And that's precisely what the sentencing judgelooked at and explicitly referred to in rejecting the requeston the part of the petitioner either to downgrade thetriggering offense to a misdemeanor, or to eliminate some ofthe strikes.And I would have thought that is precisely what weexpect and want judges to do in a rational sentencing system.QUESTION: In effect, you're -- going back to thebeginning of your argument, I think you're -- I think you're saying that what the judge here did in rejecting the requestto downgrade or to disregard, in effect, was saying, "Yes, Iam finding that this is a case in which it is appropriate tosentence on an entirely different theory, a theory of puttingthem away, as opposed to a theory of deterrence," and I --that seems to be the logic of what's going on.MR. CHERTOFF: That's correct; an entirely differenttheory, though, that is embraced by the State in passing thislaw.QUESTION: And may I ask you one more question onthat? Because again, you started toward it in responding tome at the beginning. Like you, I came in here assuming thatthe State could change its theories. If that is so, then Iguess what that means for proportionate or grossdisproportionality analysis is this: A State can do it and can pass our Eight Amendment test if it has a reasonable basisfor saying, "We are going, under certain circumstances, to saythere is a changed theory of sentencing. The theory changesfrom deterrence or mere retribution to a theory or publicprotection, putting away the person who simply will repeat andrepeat and repeat."So, for purposes of our proportionality analysis,the question would come down, do they have a reasonable basisfor doing that under their statute, in general? And inparticular, is there a reasonable basis for saying that this is a case for that? And if the answers to those two questionsare yes, then it passes the test. Is that -- would you adoptthat analysis?MR. CHERTOFF: I would absolutely agree that if itsatisfies those two, it passes the test. That's not to saythat if it flunks those, it automatically fails the test. Butcertainly if you meet those conditions, I think you pass thetest. And I think there's a common sense to that.One could look, for example, at certain types ofviolent crimes, like murders and rapes and say, irrespectiveof whether it was a crime of passion or something that willnever happen again, "It is so heinous, our philosophy is wehave to punish it." But one can also look at comparativelysmall crimes, at least if they're felonies, and say, "Ifsomeone is repetitiously unable to conform their conduct to the requirements of the law, we don't have to wait until hecommits the next felony or the next two felonies before we putan end to it."And interestingly, if one goes back to Blackstone,who talks a little bit about the issue of proportionality asit related back in his day, he discusses the fact that whenyou deal with habitual offenders, it would be cruel to thepublic to simply allow that person to get out again and committheir next crime.So, I don't know that it's so much that the State changes its theory, as that the State adapts its theory to theparticular type of crime and particular type of offender. Andthat's, of course, what we want to have in sentencing.And, finally, I would say this. In a scheme likeCalifornia, where the state judge has the power to tailor tothe particular offender and the particular offense what theright answer is, for the federal courts to come in under grossdisproportionality analysis and recalibrate that -- even if,sitting as state trial judges, the justices might feel wewould do it differently -- would be essentially converting thecourts into a constitutional sentencing commission. And ifone looks at the companion case --QUESTION: Excuse me, would be essentially to --MR. CHERTOFF: Convert the court into a constitutional sentencing commission. Doing the kind ofanalysis that we now have, a sentencing commission --QUESTION: And that would be a very bad thing. Iagree.(Laughter.) MR. CHERTOFF: It would be a -- certainly verycomplicated thing, Justice Breyer.So -- and if one looks at the companion case,Andrade, and the subsequent cases in the Ninth Circuit thathave flowed from that case, one sees this phenomenon beginning to emerge, where every fact pattern is evaluated slightlydifferently. One court views burglary as being a violentoffense; one court says it's not a violent offense.QUESTION: Could you argue that, because discretionis consistent with the goals of the statute before thesentencing, that some discretion is also permitted to areviewing court after the sentencing, and they can stillmaintain the symmetry and the purpose of the statute?MR. CHERTOFF: The state law could certainly providefor some kind of review as a matter of state sentencing law interms of abuse of discretion by the sentencing judge.QUESTION: But in this -- in California, does theappellate court ever set aside sentences on the ground therewas an abuse of discretion to invoke the three strikes law?MR. CHERTOFF: I know of cases where they have affirmed trial judges that have set aside strikes. I don'tknow of a case --QUESTION: No, I -- has -- has a trial judge everbeen set aside for imposing the third strike?MR. CHERTOFF: I'm not aware of it.QUESTION: I don't think --MR. CHERTOFF: I'm not aware --QUESTION: -- there are any --MR. CHERTOFF: -- of such a case. Certainly thestate law could allow that to happen. If there are no further questions, I will return therest of my time to the Court.QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. Chertoff.Mr. Denvir, you have one minute remaining.REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF QUIN DENVIRON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERMR. DENVIR: Your Honor, the point I -- I'd like tomake two points. One is, if the discretion in -- under theCalifornia law is very limited. One thing would be to treat awobbler, if it is a wobbler, and reduce it to a misdemeanor;so you would go from to life, or life, to one-year maximumpenalty. That's not used very often. The other one is tostrike a prior conviction. But that's a -- the CaliforniaSupreme Court in Romero said that's a very limited discretion,that it is only when you can find that this offender is outside the "spirit of the law," whatever that is. Andthere's an amicus brief filed by the Los Angeles publicdefender in Romero that shows that that discretion has beenused very little in California. So the -- this limiteddiscretion has no effect on it.The only other point I'd make, as far as therepetition -- as far as the labeling, if all the legislaturehas to do is say, "What we're doing here is incapacitation,and, therefore, the Court can't look at that," then it reallywrites the Eighth Amendment protections against grossly disproportional sentences out totally. If it's just aquestion of -- they say, "Here's our reason," and you can'teven question that, because they can always claim they want toincapacitate any criminal for any amount of time.CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: Thank you, Mr. Denvir. Thecase is submitted.(Whereupon, at : a.m., the case in theabove-entitled matter was submitted.) 