 IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - XROBERT J. DEVLIN, Petitioner, ::v. : No. -ROBERT A. SCARDELLETTI, ET AL.:- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - XWashington, D.C.Tuesday, March , The above-entitled matter came on for oral argument before the Supreme Court of the United States at : a.m. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC APPEARANCES:THOMAS C. GOLDSTEIN, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; onbehalf of the Petitioner.LAURENCE S. GOLD, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf ofthe Respondents.PATRICIA A. MILLETT, ESQ., Assistant to the SolicitorGeneral, Department of Justice, Washington,D.C.; for the United States, as amicus curiae,supporting respondents th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC C O N T E N T SORAL ARGUMENT OF THOMAS C. GOLDSTEIN, ESQ. On behalf of the Petitioners ORAL ARGUMENT OFLAURENCE S. GOLD, ESQ.On behalf of the Respondents REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OFJOHN G. CRABTREE, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioners PAGE th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC P R O C E E D I N G S(: a.m.)CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: We'll hear argumentnext on -, Robert J. Devlin versus Robert A.Scardelletti. Spectators are admonished, do not talkuntil they leave the courtroom. The Court remains insession. Mr. Goldstein.ORAL ARGUMENT OF THOMAS C. GOLDSTEINON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERMR. GOLDSTEIN: Mr. Chief Justice and may itplease the Court: This is a case about the right to takean appeal. Over Petitioner's objections, the districtcourt confirmed a class action settlement thatsubstantially reduces Petitioner's individual pension. The Fourth Circuit held that Petitioner nonetheless maynot appeal to argue that the district court abused itsdiscretion in rejecting his objections. Our principalsubmission is that, as Justice Kennedy explained in oralargument in the Felzen case, Rule class members such asPetitioner are bound by the district court's judgment andthus are parties to that judgment with the right to appealfrom it. Because the Government, although seated at theopposite side of the table, actually agrees with us thatclass members are bound by the judgment, that objectorappeals identify important legal errors, and that they th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC also deter collusive settlements, I will leave to theSolicitor General's representative any arguments to thecontrary that my friend Mr. Gold may make.QUESTION: Can I test your thesis that u arebound by a judgment, you are a party to it? I mean, thereare cases where someone who has allied with a party andhas used the same attorney and has maybe had some inputinto trial strategy, that that person will be bound by thejudgment, but as far as I know, we have never allowed, nocourt that I know of has ever allowed such a person totake an appeal on the ground that well, since you wouldhave been bound, you are a party.MR. GOLDSTEIN: Justice Scalia, I think itdepends on what we mean by bound. There are different,more expansive notions of collateral estoppel and resjudicata. What I'm talking about here is that thejudgment operates directly upon the class member. And letme be clear that our position is not to move beyond that. Our position is not that it's sufficient to be a party,but that it is a necessary condition. It is alsonecessary, and this is an important point for thedistinction between appealing from an approved settlementand for appealing a litigated judgment.QUESTION: You say that the judgment operatesdirectly upon the class member, as if we are talking about th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC some sort of physical thing, but how is that operation onthe class member different from, say, what might be resjudicata or collateral estoppel in some other case?MR. GOLDSTEIN: Mr. Chief Justice, thedifference is that while you can have an application ofcollateral estoppel or res judicata that extinguishes aright to pursue an action, what I'm talking about here andlet me put it in very practical terms. The Petitioner hada pension and that pension went down percent when thedistrict court in this case approved a settlement thatsaid the COLA provisions of the pension plan are null andvoid, and that's the kind of direct operation I'm talkingabout.Now, there is an unsettled area of the lawstretching to precedents dating from the s, theso-called quasi-party cases. We don't think it'snecessary to apply those here because unlike a Rule .class member in the context of a derivative action, we aredirectly bound by the action. We are not talking aboutextinguishing a right of ours, for example, to sue onbehalf of a corporation.QUESTION: You are bound because a judgedetermined that you had an adequate representative. Iagree with you that every person in that class is equallyaffected and indeed there is no opt out of this class that th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC we are dealing with. But the determination has been madethat you are represented by someone who is an adequaterepresentative of all members of the class who will fairlyand adequately represent the class. So as long as therepresentative will fairly and adequately represent theclass, why isn't it the end of it?MR. GOLDSTEIN: Well, that's a good entry intothe purpose and function of Rule (e). What happens isthat at the point that it's acknowledged by theRespondents here that at the point settlement is agreedto, the class representative and be opposing named partiesjoined forces to oppose objections, and that continued atthe stage of the case where you have to decide whether ornot to take an appeal.QUESTION: Well, Rule what?MR. GOLDSTEIN: (e).QUESTION: And where do we find that?MR. GOLDSTEIN: That would be in the appendix ofthe Council of Institutional Investors, Mr. Chief Justice.QUESTION: It's not in your brief?MR. GOLDSTEIN: No, Mr. Chief Justice.QUESTION: Whereabouts in the Constitution ofInstitutional Investors?MR. GOLDSTEIN: (A)() of the appendix to thatbrief. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: Thank you.MR. GOLDSTEIN: And I'll read it very brieflyfor the Court's benefit. A class action shall not bedismissed or compromised without the approval of the courtand notice of the proposed dismissal or compromise shallbe given to all members of the class in such manner as thecourt directs. Now, let me detour for just a moment. TheCourt will notice it noticed in the Felzen case that thisrule doesn't actually explicitly provide for objections. The advisory committee notes make clear that that was theintent of this provision, and in fact amended Rule (e)which will go into effect next year explicitly providesfor the right to state objections. To return to Justice Ginsburg's question, whathappens is that this rule recognizes that the classrepresentative is not speaking on behalf of the objectorsat the point an objection is taken. They in fact litigateactively for the settlement. Mr. Gold here is on behalfof the class representative in this case and goodnessknows, he will argue that we have no right to take anappeal.The rule, (e), provides an opportunity for usto come in, advise the district court of a problem withthe settlement. Our point is that nothing in these rulescontemplates that the objector's role would be th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC extinguished at the district court, that someone uniquelyin the context of a class action, who is bound directly bythe judgment and participates as of right in the districtcourt, would only participate at the district court.QUESTION: But do you agree that you mustintervene in the district court, or do you say you don'teven do that?MR. GOLDSTEIN: Mr. Chief Justice, we say we donot have to do that, that there is nothing about thisCourt's precedents --QUESTION: Why not? That is, if this is openunder the language, it seems to me there is no realdifference between the parties as a practical matter,except you want to say the person all the time, no matterwhat, can bring an appeal, and they want to say what youshould do is intervene and that gives the district judge achance to act in an unusual situation as a kind ofsafeguard to make sure that it is fair. I mean, this person could be anybody under thesun. It could muck up the litigation for everybody else. The extra time involved might be important, and it mightbe totally unfair, given the prior history, to allow thisindividual to bring the appeal. So all they are saying isthat the judge should have a chance as a gatekeeper tomake that determination. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Now why not, if it's open under the language,say there is a little more conservative position, gives usa chance to not get things mixed up?MR. GOLDSTEIN: Well, let me, there are twoparts to the question. The first is, is it open under therules and second, why wouldn't it be a good idea to adoptit if it were? As to the first, it is not open under therules, and let me take you again to the particular rule inquestion. That would be, it's suggested, rule (d)(),and this rule says that the district court may inappropriate circumstances --QUESTION: Where are you reading, where are youreading from?MR. GOLDSTEIN: I'm going to read from (a)() inthe carryover to (a)() of the same appendix of theCouncil --QUESTION: And where are you starting on (a)()?MR. GOLDSTEIN: At the bottom of the page D,orders and conduct of actions. Your Honors, it says inthe conduct of actions to which this rule applies, thecourt may make appropriate orders and then I'm going tojump to . This is the suggestion of the other side: requiring for the protection of the members of a class orotherwise for fair conduct of the action that notice begiven. So there is a suggestion, where it follows, notice th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC be given, and then there is a class that says -- I'll justcontinue to read it: In such matters the court may direct to some orall members, of any step in the action or of the proposedextent of the judgment, or of -- and this becomes critical-- the opportunity of members to signify whether theyconsider the representation fair and adequate. And thenthe clause: to intervene and present claims or defensesor otherwise come into the action.Our point is as follows, or is several fold. The first is that this is a different notice from the(e) notice. This is a discretionary notice that courtscan employ in some cases, and I think it deserves to beemphasized that in the years since , not a singlecourt has read this provision in the way that's suggestedby the other side, that it's mandatory that there be anintervention for a screening function. The particularreason is that this (d)() notice refers to intervening topresent claims or defenses, and that the not what anobjector seeks to do.An objector says there is a settlement on thetable, I have a legal objection to it, it's eitherunlawful, as in Amchem, or it's unfair as in this case,and so it's a different kind of intervention. So I don'tthink it's open and no court has ever suggested that it's th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC how the rule should be interpreted. Now, assume the Courtdisagrees with me, Justice Breyer, why isn't it a goodidea? It doesn't accomplish anything.What happens is this. You move to intervene,the intervention motion is denied, so you appeal that, soyou haven't really gained anything. What you have done isturn the objection into the application of the abuse ofdiscretion standard. You just added another layer on topof it because then the court of appeals has to decidewell, did the judge get the intervention motion wrong? Ifthat was an abuse of discretion, then we'll reach themerits.QUESTION: What if the court grants your motionto intervene?MR. GOLDSTEIN: Mr. Chief Justice, then youhaven't accomplished anything either. All you have doneis permitted an appeal that under our theory would bepermitted anyway.QUESTION: Could we, could we go back just onestep. You don't have to intervene to be an objector. That's very clear, isn't it?MR. GOLDSTEIN: Yes.QUESTION: And I thought that your basicargument was whatever your status is in the districtcourt, that's what your status is on appeal. If you can th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC go into a district court, which is extraordinary, usuallythe district court doesn't let anybody come in withouthaving intervened, but to object to a settlement, youdon't have to do anything except say judge, I'm anobjector. You don't have to be an intervenor. And Ithought that your basic argument was whatever status youhave in the district court, that you can come in andobject, then you have that same status on appeal.MR. GOLDSTEIN: Yes. I had taken an implicitpremise to Justice Breyer's question that I'll come backto. This case will illustrate your point, JusticeGinsburg. In this case, we objected to the settlement. We moved to intervene. That intervention was denied. Itis perfectly clear that if that intervention is properlydenied, and as to our attempt to come in and takediscovery, disqualify class counsel, that's not within thequestion presented. It's not here at the court. We wouldnot have that power as an objector. As an objector, we have only the right to pursueour individual objections, which is the distinction I takeit you are drawing. Justice Breyer, I took the implicitpremise of his question to be well, why don't we intervenefor that limited purpose? And that's I think what I tookJustice Breyer to be getting at. He is saying what's thebig deal. Can't the district judge maybe help us out in th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC some cases where we might have a lot of differentobjectors and give you a limited intervention right. Thatis akin to the rule that is applied by the SeventhCircuit, and that is preserved by the question presentedwithin the petition.Now, the Government adds a patina on top of thatthat Justice Breyer referred to, and that is don't merelyhave pro forma intervention, but allow the district judgeto actually do something and screen out the people wedon't want appealing. So I came back to Justice Breyerand I said I don't think it will actually --QUESTION: You have gained something. I mean,normally the judge would grant it, but let's say hedidn't. It would be some pretty good reason. Maybe itwould be very unfair, etcetera and you say well, he willjust appeal that. That's true. But it's quite adifferent matter as an appellate court to decide whetherthe judge abused his discretion there than to have to gothrough what could be years' worth of litigation tofigure out whether this settlement nor the circumstancesis a fair one.MR. GOLDSTEIN: Justice Breyer, let me draw adistinction. My point is not that in an extraordinarycase, that a district judge is faced with dozens upondozens of objectors; the case has become completely th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC unmanageable; this is an important settlement to implementimmediately; that a district court couldn't in that caseexercise discretion under the broad language of subsection(d). My point is that in the mine run of class actions,in every case, we don't need to be doing this.QUESTION: Well, what discretion would thedistrict court have if your theory is right, Mr.Goldstein, that an objector doesn't even have tointervene? I mean, in a very complicated case the objectorsimply says I object, I'm not a party. What can thedistrict court judge do?MR. GOLDSTEIN: Well, I believe that under thelanguage of the rule --QUESTION: Of what rule?MR. GOLDSTEIN: Of subsection D, and let mereturn to the introductory clause, Mr. Chief Justice. There is a, sort of the broad phrasing because we have allkinds of class actions. Justice Ginsburg pointed out wedon't have opt outs here but in D cases we might. Justin the broad phrasing in the conduct of actions to whichthe rule applies, the court may make appropriate orders. And I think the court of appeals would be very sympatheticto a district judge faced with an extraordinarycircumstance of lots of adverse objectors. But I think --QUESTION: So you are saying that I am reaching th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC out and bringing you into the case in spite of the factyou haven't moved to intervene?MR. GOLDSTEIN: I apologize, Mr. Chief Justice. No. What I'm reacting to is Justice Breyer's suggestionthat if there are actually a lot of objectors in the case,and it's become a mess, we have a district judge who sayslook, what in the world is going to happen with this caseon appeal. I'm going to try and help the court of appealsout. My point is that I do believe that the districtjudge in that circumstance would have the discretion tosay to the intervenors -- excuse me, the objectors, say tothe objectors, look, if you all are going to take anappeal, we are going to have to handle this here and tryand create some organization.QUESTION: How does he give jurisdiction overpeople that are simply on the outside; they are notparties; all they are doing is objecting?MR. GOLDSTEIN: I apologize, Mr. Chief Justice. They are parties. This is a rule class action underSosna vs. Iowa. At the point of class certification, theyhave come, they are both bound by the judgment and theyhave availed themselves of the court by appearing andmaking an objection.QUESTION: Okay. Let's assume we agree withyou. What does the judge then do? Does he say I'm going th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC to let X and Y speak for the rest of you, and I will nothear separate objections from the others?MR. GOLDSTEIN: Well, no. I think the judgeclearly is going to hear objections from everyone. Thequestion is is the district judge going to exercise somegatekeeping determination about who goes up on appeal. But Justice Souter, I could not agree more.QUESTION: How -- how can -- I'm lost. How doeshe exercise gatekeeping on who appeals?MR. GOLDSTEIN: Justice Souter, that is ourfundamental point, is that, let me just distinguish againwith the Court whose position is what. We don't agreewith this suggestion. It wasn't employed here. We thinkit's entirely unnecessary. I'm trying to achieve --QUESTION: No, but you are suggesting it as analternative to Justice Breyer's suggestion that maybe toavoid chaos, you ought to have discretionary intervention,permissive intervention, and if you've got to avoid thechaos, then I assume the judge has got to be able ineffect to limit what some parties objecting can do infavor of what other parties, letting other partiesobjecting speak.MR. GOLDSTEIN: Justice Souter, I agree withyou. I don't know exactly how this is supposed to work. It has never come up in years since the rule was th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC amended fundamentally in . So far as we can tell,neither a federal district judge for a state trial courtdecided that he or she was presented with such anextraordinary case. I don't endorse this proposal --QUESTION: Mr. Goldstein, I was very surprisedto hear you say you agree with Justice Souter when he usedthe word permissive intervention. I mean, even theGovernment agrees with you that if you must intervene, youwould be an intervenor of right, not a mere "permissive,"because you are bound by the judgment.MR. GOLDSTEIN: Justice Ginsburg, I didn't focuson that word in Justice Souter's question.QUESTION: I retract my adjective.MR. GOLDSTEIN: And so that's quite right. Now,let me just put on the table, Your Honors, the fact thatwe, here at the Supreme Court, the brief suggests oh, thiswill be so easy. District judges will always allow thesesorts of interventions. This Court's opinion in Crown,Cork & Seal makes quite clear that isn't true. This judgesaid look, here's what's happening. And this is ChiefJudge Motz in our case, said, I'm not going to let youintervene but if I'm wrong in rejecting your objections,you have got an appeal. That's how it has worked inseveral circuits without any difficulty at all, with thecourt of appeals having been confronted with any need for th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC the district judges to act as a gatekeeper. And let me pick up, Justice Souter, if I might,on the specific problem that you identified and that isthe district judge picking out one appellant versusanother. There is the grave difficulty that in oneappellant goes up and the others are not permitted tointervene in appeal, what happens when that persondismisses their appeal? This is an entirely untested rule.QUESTION: Under your theory, any objector canappeal, I take it.MR. GOLDSTEIN: Yes, Mr. Chief Justice.QUESTION: And no matter how complicated thecase in the district court, they don't have to intervene. You are going to have or appeals.MR. GOLDSTEIN: But it has never happened. Thecourts -- that there would be that many separate briefs,for example, or separate appeals. Let me tell you how thecourts of appeals deal with this problem. They deal withit here like they do in all multiparty litigation. Theyrequire consolidation. For example, in the SecondCircuit, there can only be one appellant's brief. Thepeople have to get together. In addition, the Rules Advisory Committee hasmade a very specific point that I would like to draw tothe Court's attention with respect to the amended rule th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC (e) that will come into place in , and the courtsays that once -- and I apologize: The advisory committeenote, Mr. Chief Justice, this isn't reproduced anywhere,because it's a new rule that will come into play nextyear. But the advisory committee writes, once an objectorappeals, control of the proceeding lies in the court ofappeals. The court of appeals may undertake review andapproval of a settlement with the objector perhaps as partof the appeal settlement procedures or may remand to thedistrict court to take advantage of the district court'sfamiliarity with the action in the settlement. There is agreat deal of flexibility built into the process.QUESTION: How, in the Second and Third Circuitshas, has the procedure been you can object, everybody letsyou object, but you can then appeal without havingintervened?MR. GOLDSTEIN: In excess of several decades,Your Honor, and it stretches in the Ninth Circuit back to, for example. And so let me point to the Court thelanguage that is quoted against us from another court ofappeals is the Guthrie decision from the Eleventh Circuit,, in which that court predicted that there would beadministrative difficulties, Mr. Chief Justice, with asystem that allowed objectors to appeal. But it has beenthe rule in those other courts that Justice Ginsburg th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC identified for several decades, and they have notcomplained a whit about this.QUESTION: Will your rule hold for certioraripetitions as well, so if, let's say, a named class membertakes an appeal, but then the class petitions forcertiorari, that any non-named class member can petitionfor certiorari?MR. GOLDSTEIN: No, Justice Kennedy. Thiscourt's rule as I understand it is that you had to havebeen a party in the court of appeal, and so the failure topursue your individual objection in the court of appealswould require, would mean that you drop out.QUESTION: Well, but your rule is that you are aparty.MR. GOLDSTEIN: You are a party to the case, tothe district court's judgment. That's correct. But thisCourt's cert proceedings turn on not whether you are aparty in the district court but whether you are a party inthe court of appeals, and I can --QUESTION: But under your philosophy you are aparty to the court of appeals because you are bound by thejudgment.MR. GOLDSTEIN: No, Justice Kennedy. Our pointis this. When you appeal as an objector, as opposed tothe class representative, you appeal in your individual th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC capacity to pursue your individual objections. That isour position why the Fourth Circuit had it wrong in sayingthat we were going to take over the case, usurp the roleof the class representative. That's not correct.We come into the court of appeals, Mr. Devlindoes, on behalf of himself and when his, he is the onlyobjector appellant that was in the court. It is true thathe represents an organization, but his individualobjections are the only ones that are in the court ofappeals.QUESTION: What you are saying then is not thathe ceases to be a party, that the nonobjecting classmember ceases to be a party in the court of appeals, butthe nonobjecting class member has waived the right to beseparately represented by himself, isn't it?MR. GOLDSTEIN: Yes.QUESTION: Yes.QUESTION: And the objection, of course hecouldn't petition for cert because all he can do, he can'tquestion anything else in the case except his objectionsto the settlement. That's all he can pursue.MR. GOLDSTEIN: That's right. That's what rule sets up. It gives him a formal and important role inthe process. And it's important not to let go of thereason that exists, and that is that the Rules Advisory th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Committee notes that, and, understood that theseobjections are an important part of the process ofidentifying legal errors as in Amchem; deterring collusivesettlements is another important role that they further.Let me identify an additional difficulty and areason why you should not have an intervention rule, andit applies, I'm trying to advise the court about rulesthat intersect its decision and rules that are going tocome into place in . In , assuming the rules asproposed to be amended are actually implemented, there isgoing to be a real problem with the Respondent'ssuggestion and opt-outs. Right now, in a (b)() classaction, we don't have the right to opt out, which I thinkis a point in our favor, as Justice Ginsburg noted, but ina (b)() class action you can opt out at the point ofclass certification.Under the amended rule, there is going to be asecond opt-out opportunity at the point of settlement. Our concern is that if you tell an objector, your role inthe case may be cut off, if the district judge makes aterrible legal error, and the district judge then is ascreen and gets to decide whether or not you are going toget to appeal, all that person is going to do is get outof the case and go litigate on their own by opting out.The one thing this Court I would hope doesn't th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC want is to spread out all the parties. The point reallyis to keep everybody within the individual judgment. Thepremise of the Respondent's position, it seems to me, isfundamentally that we want a class action to be settledand over with, just the way a lawsuit of me againstanother person would be over.With respect, I think that asks too much of rule. We, this is a case involving hundreds upon hundredsupon hundreds of people, and it's not surprising that itcan't just be settled by one person or another.QUESTION: Well, what's wrong with theGovernment's position, which is you have the right tointervene for purposes of appeal? Indeed you don't evenhave to file your motion to intervene until after thesettlement has been entered as a judgment of the court. Just to make it clear that you are not someone who isn'teven a part of this class, isn't even legitimately part ofthis class, you are not just somebody that walked in offthe street. Why isn't that a problem?MR. GOLDSTEIN: Because the judge already knowsthat. The only people contemplated by the Government'sintervention proposal and screening function are those whohave already stated objections at the fairness hearing,and we know who those people are. If they weren't membersof the class and they weren't proper appellants, we would th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC argue no.My point about all the different hypotheticalsspun in a couple of pages in the government's brief whereit discusses the screening function is that it doesn'tactually add value and it does create collaterallitigation. There will be a motion to intervene; therewill be mandatory disclosures; there will be theopposition to the motion to intervene; it will belitigated and then it will appeal.I could see, if the courts of appeals wereactually experiencing a problem, that the advisorycommittee would revisit this issue and would interpose thedistrict judges as a screen, but that hasn't happened.QUESTION: The advisory committee could solvethis either way, couldn't they, the Rules Committee?MR. GOLDSTEIN: It actually could. And ithasn't. The amended rule the advisory committee notes,note the circuit split, and suggest --QUESTION: Well, why hasn't it? Why hasn't itdecided this?MR. GOLDSTEIN: I think there is one good reasonand that is that the advisory committee goes through, incycles, of course, it revisits particular rules. Rule ,rule . Rule we believe has no role to play, asJustice Souter suggested, in screening appellants. That's th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC the rules of appellate procedure and so it's notsurprising in amended rule that they didn't take thison. If I could reserve the balance of my time.QUESTION: Very well, Mr. Goldstein. Mr. Gold,we'll hear from you.ORAL ARGUMENT OF LAURENCE S. GOLDON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTSMR. GOLD: Mr. Chief Justice and may it pleasethe Court: The well settled rule that we begin from andthat the Petitioners accept is that only parties to alawsuit or those that properly become parties may appealan adverse judgment. The basic point of the Petitioners,the point from which everything else springs, is that theunnamed class members are parties to a class action suit. That premise is wrong. In a rule case, the onlylitigating persons before the court are the persons whoinitiate and prosecute the case as parties opposing theclass, the persons who are served with process and defendthe lawsuit as representative parties, and the persons whomove to intervene and are granted intervention. The verypoint of the class action is to provide for representativeparty suits where the class is so numerous that joinder ofall the unnamed class members is impractical.QUESTION: But couldn't any member of the classsay judge, you looked like a representative. I'm not th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC adequately represented and at the point at which I'm notadequately represented, I have the right to come in andspeak for myself. And isn't that exactly what's going onhere? A representative of my class is fine, until therepresentative is together in a deal with the other side,and at that point, when I object to the deal, I'm notadequately represented.MR. GOLD: The -- to the extent that that isyour point, and you move to intervene to replace therepresentative party, that's a motion that has to be dealtwith. The, the "fairness hearing" and the process of thedistrict court --QUESTION: Mr. Gold, may I go back to thestatement, you said something, you moved to intervene. Ifyou have seen class actions in the Seventh Circuit and theThird Circuit, you can come in and object withoutintervening.MR. GOLD: But that wasn't --QUESTION: And that, you come in and object andyou say I object to the settlement. This representativeis not adequate to represent me to the extent of thesettlement.MR. GOLD: Well, but you are not saying that therepresentative is not adequate to represent you forpurposes of the settlement. Your objection is that the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC settlement is not fair, proper and adequate.QUESTION: Well, then let me put it in yourterms, and I'm reading from page of your brief. Once aproposed settlement is reached, it is axiomatic that thenamed representative party who has negotiated thesettlement does not adequately represent either theinterests or the viewpoint of those class members opposedto the settlement. You say it's axiomatic and I was justsaying well, you said yourself it's axiomatic that they,the representative at that point does not adequatelyrepresent the class member who is opposed to thesettlement.MR. GOLD: In -- in the sense, Your Honor, whatwe are saying is not that the class representative in facthas not properly and adequately represented the class. Itis that the individual can, has a proper argument forintervention on that theory. It isn't that the, theindividual in making objections is necessarily challengingthe propriety and adequacy of representation.QUESTION: But Mr. Gold, if he is challengingthe representative's fee, I think he is, which often iswhat the minority member of the class objects to, thelarge fee that the class representatives, the lawyers get. You can't say there is not a conflict there.MR. GOLD: I'm not arguing that there is not a th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC "difference of opinion" or conflict. If --QUESTION: Well, you are certainly not arguingthat the lawyer adequately represents the person who isobjecting to his fee either, are you?MR. GOLD: No. I am not. No. But I am arguingthat the making of objections, whether it is by a classmember or the, a nonclass member who is interested andaffected by the class action and the class actionsettlement, as was the case in Marino, by making anobjection is not entering the case and litigating in thecase. That is, as a party. That is the very point of thecourt's opinion in Marino vs. Ortiz.QUESTION: That was somebody who was not amember of the class, right?MR. GOLD: That is correct.QUESTION: Here you are talking about members ofthe class and even in this case, people who are made to bemembers of the class even if they don't want to be becausethey can't opt out.MR. GOLD: Well, they are the members of theclass but they are not parties to the lawsuit. That isthe whole --QUESTION: They don't want to be. All they wantto do is to say, as Justice Stevens suggests, you made thesettlement deal and the lawyers are getting the lion's th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC share of it and I want to object to that, why can't theysay that?MR. GOLD: There is no argument here that youmade a deal and the lawyers are getting the lion's share. Here the lawyers were paid on --QUESTION: But we're are not dealing with themerits of it. We are dealing with first you have a rightto come in and object, and you have agreed that you dohave a right to come in and object. Now, the question is,what more? And what I took to be the principal differencebetween your position and the Government's is theGovernment is very clear that there is a right tointervene. The objector would have a right to intervenefor the limited purpose of pursuing the appeal. You seem to hedge on it. First you say it'saxiomatic that there is a, no longer an identity ofinterest, but then I can't tell, and maybe you can tellme. The Government says of course they have a right tointervene, but we want them to be orderly so they make amotion, which must be granted. What is your view?MR. GOLD: I don't understand the Government toargue that the motion must be granted, and I'll --QUESTION: Do you understand the Government tosay it is intervention of right, not permissiveintervention? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. GOLD: It's intervention of, of right, butnot automatic. Intervention of right is not a, a motionthat has to be granted without a showing. Intervention ofright is intervention of, to file, to participate in thelitigation by doing something. And it's our view thatsince we are talking about a status to take an appeal in arepresentative action, it's a motion to press a case intocourt, into the court of appeals and to litigate the casein the court of appeals as, for the class andunnecessarily on behalf of the class.The point of appeal --QUESTION: I'm sorry. I'm sorry, Mr. Gold, Ireally don't understand what you are trying to conveybecause there are two kinds of intervention, interventionof right and permissive intervention. Intervention ofright if you meet the terms, and in this case it would bewhen you claim an interest, which is the subject matter ofthe action, and you're so situated that the disposition ofthe action may as a practical matter impaired your abilityto protect your own interests. So I give you one exampleis, well, this case. I will lose -- my pension is goingto be, the COLA is going to be dead and gone, so I want toprotect that interest, which the settlement takes away.Isn't that, wouldn't that be, whether I have agood case on the merits is another question, but wouldn't th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC I have a right to intervene?MR. GOLD: You would, you have a right tointervene, but your -- what you are doing if you seek tointervene to take an appeal is to proceed on behalf of theclass and to invalidate and have vacated the, thesettlement agreement which is not an agreement whicheither cuts your COLA, the trust, having acted --QUESTION: The, the Government as I understandit says yes you have a right to intervene and you have aright to appeal to the limited extent that you arecontesting the settlement. That's the Government'sposition. And you are saying that's a wrong position. Isthat --MR. GOLD: No. I am not saying that that is awrong position. I am saying that it is our view first ofall that it is a right position. And secondly, we wouldsuggest that the, the standard for showing intervention isnot simply that you are a class member, and that you haveobjections to the settlement, but also, a showing that youhave colorable objections and that in, in pressing thoseobjections, you are going to do so for and on behalf ofthe interests of the class. Now, that's our view of theproper standard for the proper showing on behalf of theintervention. We think that that standard is exactly thecorrect standard for maintaining the integrity of the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC class action.QUESTION: Mr. Gold, that's not the standardthat applies to the right of a class member to participatein the district court proceeding, is it?MR. GOLD: It isn't -- it is; it would be thestandard for a class member to intervene as --QUESTION: To intervene. I'm just asking toparticipate in the district court objecting to thesettlement. Don't he have an absolute right to do that?MR. GOLD: He has an absolute right toparticipate in the, in the fairness hearing. But that isnot a litigating right. He is, objectors advise the courton their views of why the settlement is --QUESTION: But he has that right, whether or notthe district court may view his objections as colorable orfrivolous.MR. GOLD: That is true, Your Honor. But themaking of objections is not coming into the action tolitigate, but as if your objection is a motion, which thecourt passes on or not. The court is considering aquestion posed by the litigating parties, whether thesettlement agreement is fair and proper in order to beapproved. Objectors have the right to state their viewsfor the court's consideration. The courts also --QUESTION: And to have the court rule on the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC objection.MR. GOLD: No. Not to have the court rule onthe objection.QUESTION: Oh, you don't think that, they canfile an objection, the court doesn't have to rule on?MR. GOLD: No. The court rules overall, havingconsidered --QUESTION: Even approving the settlement in theface of an objection is the ruling that the objection iswithout merit. It seems to me. I don't know. Maybe youknow something --MR. GOLD: No. The objections can be of allshapes and sizes, Justice Stevens. They can be that thesettlement doesn't provide enough for the X or Y class andthe judge doesn't say that that's precisely what the X orY class ought to get, and I reject that as an objection.The judge's role is, is the settlement fair,proper and adequate? And the point is, our basic point isif a class member wishes to go further and take the caseto another stage where he is litigating on behalf of theclass, he ought to be an intervenor and a party, notsimply someone who is not a party. We think that that'sproper, whatever the right standard on intervention is,and we believe that the standard I have articulated makessense in the class action. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: You disagree with anything thegovernment said in its brief about the objector has aright to intervene, he can do so even after judgmentwithin the time allowed?MR. GOLD: We think definitely that an objectoror even a class member who hasn't participated in theobjection process can intervene to take an appeal and toforward the objections made in the objection process byanyone, but we think that --QUESTION: Then you are disagreeing with theSeventh Circuit. Seventh Circuit, as I understand it,says you have a right to intervene, but you must exerciseit when you know about the settlement, and it's too lateafter judgment. So you are disagreeing with that?MR. GOLD: Well, the Government -- neither, Idon't believe the Seventh Circuit has passed on the, thepropriety of intervention after judgment. Our only pointis --QUESTION: It has. It has. It --MR. GOLD: -- that only parties can -- no, theysaid that you can intervene after.QUESTION: No. The Seventh Circuit has said; ithas dismissed. It said you have a right to be here, butyou should have intervened when you knew that you wereobjecting to the settlement. It's too late to do so after th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC the judgment.MR. GOLD: Well, the Government doesn't takethat position. We don't take that position.QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. Gold. Ms. Millett,we'll hear from you.MS. MILLETT: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court. We agree with Petitioners thatobjectors who have expressed objections to settlementagreements have important interests and often should beallowed to appeal. Our disagreement is on the mechanismby which someone gets to the court of appeals.QUESTION: Is that a purely formal disagreement,or are there some distinct practical advantages that youcan tell us to your rule so that the district judge, Iassume, can give some shape and direction to the appeal?Is that the point?MS. MILLETT: There is a practical significanceto this process. I think it's important to keep in mindthat class actions can come in many forms and shapes andcan involve up to, as this Court knows from the asbestoscases, tens of thousands of people, any one of whom canexpress an objection. And it is actually incorrect and wedisagree with the argument that you will know at theobjection stage whether in fact that person even really isa member of the class action, who has a live claim that is th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC covered by the class. So what the intervention motionprocess allows is, we don't think a merits determinationon the value of the objection, but we think it allows adistrict court in the first instance to make a record andaddress whether someone is a member of the class.I mean, you could have a class action that's notas discrete as this one here, but the definition of theclass is everyone employed by X corporation for a periodof years.QUESTION: Beyond the determination that theyare members of the class, are there any further purposesserved by the intervention rule you propose?MS. MILLETT: Whether or not there is staleclaim. But it, you could have objections that reallysimply don't have any relevance to the issue that will bepresented on appeal. For example, in this case, I thinkas Mr. Gold said, objections come in many shapes andsizes. And if I could refer the Court to Joint Appendixpage , we have an objection that says please considerthis letter my objection. That's it. It gives noelucidation to anyone on the basis for appeal. Now, howthe court can deal with this, this deprives the districtcourt of any opportunity to address this concern as a partof the settlement.QUESTION: You think under Petitioner's view th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC that person would be able to appeal?MS. MILLETT: That's my understanding ofPetitioner's view, without having given the district courtany opportunity, or the attorneys who are representingthat person at that point, to address this concern is partof the fairness hearing.QUESTION: Well, what is the practicaldifference? I mean, you take the position thatintervention is of right, is that correct?MS. MILLETT: Yes.QUESTION: All right. Then the practicaldifference is that if they move to intervene, they simplyhave to come physically before the court, so the court canflush out the objection, as opposed to merely filing anobjection saying I object in which case the court may notsee them? Is that the difference?MS. MILLETT: They don't have to be therephysically, in person, but there is motions practice indistrict courts, and a district court would decide whetheror not they want someone there in person or not. Butintervention rights --QUESTION: Well, why cannot the same thing beaccomplished by saying flush out your objection?MS. MILLETT: There is two answers to that. First of all, intervention of right doesn't mean the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC district court doesn't have some final say. But when weneed to understand, objections are coming before asettlement has been approved, and it may well be even ifthis objection is very vague, I have got enough otherobjections that in fact would capture what that person isconcerned about without them having told me. And if theyobject -- the objection process, the fairness hearing isvery flexible and informal at this point and allows thedistrict court to gather information and make a decisionwhether to approve the settlement agreement.It would be very unworkable, and I think unwiseto adopt a rule that turns the fairness hearing, which issupposed to focus on the settlement agreement and dealingwith serious objections, I think that's what courts wantto do, into a fairness hearing/qualifications for appeal,where I have got to spend all my time not just decidingwhether I should approve this settlement agreement or not,so that you would even be aggrieved, but in advance I haveto decide whether you are part of the class and someonewho could --QUESTION: Ms. Millett, I would be veryimpressed with the argument you are making now abouthaving the thing run neat and tidy, but for two things. Are you aware of any experience in the Second or ThirdCircuit that creates these, this pandemonium that you are th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC now describing? And second, when did the Government findout about the pandemonium? Because in Felzen, as I recall,you took the position that the objector can come in,object to the settlement, and can appeal for the limitedpurpose of challenging the settlement without intervening. What happened between Felzen and this case, and are youbasing your prediction of pandemonium on any experience inthe Second and Third Circuit that allowed objectors toappeal for years?MS. MILLETT: Concrete evidence of pandemonium,no, there is no concrete evidence that intervention is adifficult barrier in the five circuits that have required-- in fact, the seven circuits that require thisintervention motion. So our position is based on analysisof the rules. We have an established mechanism in therules for dealing with deciding who will be a litigatingparty, not one of the , on the sideline, but alitigating party in a case. Now at the time of Felzen, we didn't have asmuch experience with the limited intervention option forpurposes of appeal. And it seems that now when we focuson the --QUESTION: When was Felzen? How long ago was it?MS. MILLETT: It was -- I'm sorry. I don'tknow. About seven years. But in the intervening time, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC there have been some decisions from the Seventh Circuitthat have propounded this notion, in particular, SeventhCircuit, that have propounded, and the Eighth Circuit,too, that have propounded this notion of limitedintervention for purposes of appeal. And I have to say wehave also just reviewed and reconsidered our position, andlooking at the text of the rules, we have an answer tothis problem.QUESTION: Felzen was three years ago. I was --MS. MILLETT: I'm sorry. But the point is thatwe have an answer, our position is that there is an answerin the rules to this problem and it's limited interventionfor purposes of appeal. And the alternative is to make upan ad hoc rule cut out of out of whole cloth. That seemsto collect a variety of factors that happen to have beenpresent in this case --QUESTION: May I ask you, because your time isso limited, could you tell us what is the differencebetween your view of this case and Mr. Gold's view of thiscase?MS. MILLETT: I think, well, putting aside, wethink there is more, we don't think that the objectors areparties but we are somewhat more sympathetic to the notionthat they have the same interests as quasi parties, Ithink, than Mr. Gold is. Secondly, and I don't want to th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC put words in his mouth, but my understanding of theirbrief and argument here is that they would have some morerigid scrutiny of the intervention as a right motion, andin fact would require the person to demonstrate that theycan represent the interests of the class.QUESTION: May I ask you under your view of therequirement of an intervention for purposes of appeal,could the district judge in this case, in response to theintervention motion that was actually filed, have grantedthat relief?MS. MILLETT: The intervention for purposes ofappeal?QUESTION: Yes. MS. MILLETT: Could it have, I guess thedistrict court would have had the power contingently toreserve judgment. Because, remember that motion was madebefore the settlement was even distributed and notice wasgiven, so it would have been odd to grant intervention fora settlement judgment that had not yet been entered andthe judge hadn't heard objections or had a fairnesshearing. I mean district court can only say I'll reservejudgment and I will renew or revisit this question forlimited purposes of appeal after I have judgment, if youare still interested, if your concerns are not addressed.In this case, the intervention was, again, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC before the settlement was even distributed to members ofthe class, and it was joined with a motion that asked tostrike class counsel for preliminary injunction. And so Ithink, and it hasn't been contested that the districtcourt was well within its discretion to deny.QUESTION: But you could deny it in court. Youcould say to the extent that they wanted to intervene tocontest the settlement, fine, to the extent that they wantto take discovery, it's not fine. But to say that becausethey asked for too much they are not entitled to anything,is, I would think the Government would say the judge wasright to say they can't engage in discovery. The judgewas right to say they are not entitled to an injunction. But to say that they can't intervene --MS. MILLETT: The district court never said thatthey can't intervene for purposes of appeal because theywere never --QUESTION: It denied the motion to intervene,which had many parts.MS. MILLETT: Well, it just said to intervene. The motion itself just says to intervene and then wasaccompanied with this, other motions asking --QUESTION: So, should not the proper ruling havebeen yes, you can intervene, but only for this limitedpurpose, instead of saying motion denied? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MS. MILLETT: Well, I think if this Court wouldadopt the rule and recognize that limited intervention forpurposes of appeal is appropriate in this context,district courts will know that that's an option and beable to address it or raise it with attorneys. But theimportant thing here is I think --QUESTION: This district judge certainly thoughtthat his wording on the objection, he twice said if youdon't agree, appeal it. And the "it" was his appeal ofthe settlement.MS. MILLETT: He said that. He also twice toldhim that he wasn't a party to the case, as well. I think-- the point is, you may have thought he would ask, butour interest in this case is less the particular, we gavethe court our best judgment of how the record --QUESTION: Do you disagree with the SeventhCircuit, which would require the motion to intervene to bemade prejudgment?MS. MILLETT: If that's how one reads -- Iassume you are talking about the Navigant opinion?QUESTION: Yes.MS. MILLETT: I think there is a prior opinionand I'm sorry, the name, escapes me from, which JudgeEasterbrook also wrote, which we think adopted ourposition. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: Thank you, Ms. Millett.MS. MILLETT: Thank you.QUESTION: Mr. Goldstein, you have five minutesremaining.REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF THOMAS C. GOLDSTEINON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERMR. GOLDSTEIN: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice. If I could make four points, please, about theGovernment's proposal starting with its applications tothis case, because Justice Stevens and Justice Ginsburgwanted to know whether we do here, assuming what happenedin the district court, assuming we were going to adopt theGovernment's position, the Government does not press, sofar as I understand, any further whether or not it'spresented in this court. We have the cert petitionidentifying the motion to intervene, the discussion of theSeventh Circuit's position. The question is what we didin the district court.The argument, as I understand it, the textualbasis for the Government's rule is that under subsection(d)() of rule you move to intervene, and the languageof the rule is that the district court can condition yourright to intervene. And Justice Ginsburg, if you would adopt theGovernment's suggestion, I think that's what you would th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC have to say was the appropriate result in this case, thatthe district judge should have seen our interventionmotion and because he clearly did believe we had the rightto take an appeal, he should have conditioned it.So my principal point is that whatever the Courtdoes in terms of its rule, we prevail.QUESTION: Is that still before us, I mean, thedenial of the intervention motion?QUESTION: I don't think that was properlyraised.MR. GOLDSTEIN: Mr. Chief Justice, let meexplain why I disagree. There are, the cert petition, andI need to distinguish between intervention for allpurposes and intervention for purposes of taking anappeal. In the cert petition, the question presentedflags the fact that we move to intervene and discusses atsome length the Seventh Circuit's role which we arediscussing here both in the petition and in the requiredbrief, and to that extent it clearly --QUESTION: But that's not, I don't think a fairinterpretation of the question that you have presented. The question is whether you have standing to appeal.MR. GOLDSTEIN: Justice Kennedy, the reason weused that formulation is because it's the formulation thatthe Fourth Circuit used. It's just picked up from the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC court of --QUESTION: Well, we'll decide that another time.MR. GOLDSTEIN: I understand. The only otherpoint, I would make, Mr. Chief Justice, about what'sfairly included in the question presented is I ask thecourt to look at the question as the Government frames it,which it only could do if it believed our position was --QUESTION: Well, we take it the question youpresented and your petition for certiorari, that's what wegranted.MR. GOLDSTEIN: Yes, Mr. Chief Justice. Now,the second is, I'd like to address, Justice Ginsburg, withrespect, I don't think that you got a comforting answer onthe question of whether or not this has been a problem inthe Second or Third circuits, i.e., is there a problem outthere that requires the rules to be construed --QUESTION: Why is it, has there been a problemthe other way? The seventh circuits that have gone theother way?MR. GOLDSTEIN: But they don't, Justice Breyer. Our point is that no circuit applies the Government'srule. It's a little unfair to say that I can't identify aproblem with their rule, since no court has ever adoptedor even suggested it. Now, it is a problem to the extent that there th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC are circuits that require full party intervention. Thatyou have to come in, you have to be a litigant in order totake an appeal. The problem is not an administrative oneso much as that it cuts off appeals, appeals that areperfectly legitimate. The rule as we understand it underthis Court's precedents is not that only named parties cantake an appeal. That's why someone who sanctions canappeal and that's why it's uncontested that the denial ofour motion to intervene gives us a right to appeal. It ispersons who are directly affected by the judgment,directly bound by something that the district court did,and then what they can do is they can appeal to the extentthat the arguments that they properly presented to thedistrict court.Now, someday, will there be unusual classactions that require a further screen? Perhaps. Our pointis that in an appropriate case a district court couldemploy the Government's suggestion, but why we would wantto add the burden of this intervention requirement inevery single class action in order to avoid thehypothetical possibility, that again has never beensuggested by any court, State or Federal, so far as we orthe Government have been able to identify.The other point I would like to make, just to,although again we believe we prevail under the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Government's suggestion, is to take you back to the textthat's supposed to require this intervention, and I thinka fair reading of the text is otherwise. There are twodifferent provisions for notice that we are talking about. The one is the D provision that I quoted midway throughthe argument, and the other is E, which is the settlementnotice. The point to recognize is that under (d)(),which talks about intervening to present claims ordefenses, there is no intervention requirement when itcomes to presenting objections.And we are not intervening to present any claimsor defenses. There is just no textual hook here. To theextent the Court did want to look at subsection D, withrespect, we think it's the end of that clause that saysintervene to present claims or defenses or otherwise tocome into the case. There is nothing in the text of therule, there is nothing in the advisory committee notesthat indicates that anyone contemplated the interventionto appeal.CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: Thank you, Mr.Goldstein. The case is submitted.(Whereupon, at : p.m., the case in theabove-entitled matter was submitted.) th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC 