 IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES- - --- - - - - - - - - - - - -XCHARLES DEMORE, DISTRICT DIRECTOR, SAN FRANCISCO DISTRICT OF IMMIGRATION AND NATURALIZATION SERVICE, ET AL., Petitioners ::::::v. : No. -HYUNG JOON KIM. :- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XWashington, D.C.Wednesday, January , The above-entitled matter came on for oralargument before the Supreme Court of the United States at : a.m.APPEARANCES:THEODORE B. OLSON, ESQ., Solicitor General, Department ofJustice, Washington, D.C.; on behalf of thePetitioners.JUDY RABINOVITZ, ESQ., New York, New York; on behalf theRespondent. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC C O N T E N T SORAL ARGUMENT OF THEODORE B. OLSON, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioners JUDY RABINOVITZ, ESQ.On behalf of the Respondent REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OFTHEODORE B. OLSON, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioners PAGE th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC P R O C E E D I N G S(: a.m.)CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: We'll hear argumentnow in Number -, Charles DeMore versus Hyung JoonKim.General Olson.ORAL ARGUMENT OF THEODORE B. OLSONON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERSMR. OLSON: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it pleasethe Court:Based upon years of experience, study, hearings,and overwhelming persuasive evidence, Congress concludedthat the prompt removal of aliens convicted of committingserious felonies was essential to the Nation's ability tocontrol its borders. Detention of these aliens during removal proceedings was considered vital by Congress toeffectuate that policy, to prevent flight, to evaderemoval, and to prevent harm done by recidivist criminalaliens.This is a facial substantive due processchallenge which cannot succeed unless there are no setsof -- no set of circumstances under which thecongressional policy would be constitutional. As this Court has repeatedly --QUESTION: General Olson, do -- do we have th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC authority to entertain this challenge? As you know, anamicus has raised a jurisdictional question, and I thinkdid it maybe in the court of appeals stage as well. Itcertainly did it early on here.The problem is section (e) which says, nocourt may set aside any action or decision by the AttorneyGeneral under this section regarding the detention orrelease of any alien or the grant, revocation, or denialof bond or parole. Now, is that provision, number one,inapplicable or, number two, unconstitutional? And ifneither of those, why doesn't it mean that we have noauthority to entertain this case? MR. OLSON: Justice Scalia, it's theGovernment's position, as held by three courts of appeals,that that provision does not apply to a habeas corpus challenge to the constitutionality of the statute itself,that the language of that provision relates to challengesto an action by the Attorney General or administrativeaction and does not preclude a challenge. QUESTION: No. It doesn't -- doesn't say thechallenge -- no. It says, no court may set aside anyaction by the Attorney General. And -- and what is askedfor here is that we set aside the Attorney General'saction in detailing -- in detaining this alien.MR. OLSON: It's -- it's our submission, after th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC careful examination -- the Government originally took thatposition that you've suggested in court proceedings. Itwas rejected by three courts of appeals. We studied itfurther. The Government studied it further and came tothe conclusion that those decisions were correct and itwould not preclude -- and we're not contending heretoday --QUESTION: And -- and you're relying on whatlanguage to --MR. OLSON: Well, we're relying on the languagethat it refers to, and a reasonable construction of thestatute refers to actions, administrative actions, by theAttorney General or immigration -- administrative actionby administrative officials, and this Court's constructionof statutes against precluding constitutional challenges to other statutes.QUESTION: Oh, but all of those other statuteshad some wiggle room I think, even St. Cyr, and there justis no wiggle room here. It doesn't refer to judicialreview. It simply says, no court may set aside any actionby the Attorney General under this section.QUESTION: Even in the Quirin case where the --the presidential order said that the people shall have noaccess to the courts at all, this Court sat to hearwhether that sort of a provision was constitutional or th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC not.MR. OLSON: That's correct, Mr. Chief Justice,and while it would be in the Government's interest topreclude this challenge at all, we think a fair reading ofthe Court's decisions, including the -- the Court -- thedecision that the Chief Justice mentioned, would to --would be to construe that statute as not to preclude thisaction in this case. Of course, that would lead -- yourconstruction would lead to a -- a victory on behalf of theGovernment in this case, but we've carefully examined it,and we think that we're not advocating that position heretoday. QUESTION: Well, I appreciate your carefullyexamining it, but I'd still like to know what language init leads your careful examination to conclude that it does not cover this case. I mean, if it's unconstitutional,that's another matter. MR. OLSON: Well, we -- we may be --QUESTION: Maybe we'll strike it down for thatreason. But my goodness --MR. OLSON: We -- we may be wrong, JusticeScalia, but we're referring to and relying on the secondsentence which says, no court may set aside any action ordecision by the Attorney General under this section. Itdoes not state -- and -- and we think the Court would th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC construe it as not precluding a challenge to theconstitutionality of the -- of the policy made by theCongress itself in enacting --QUESTION: It doesn't refer to the issue. Itdoesn't refer to the basis on which the setting aside isdone. It doesn't say, may set aside, you know, on groundsother than -- it doesn't even refer to the basis. Itsays, no court may set aside any action by the --MR. OLSON: I understand, Justice Scalia, andthe Government did, indeed, make that assertion, take thatposition in early proceedings in this case. It wasrejected by three courts of appeals. We came to adifferent conclusion after reexamining it, and that's ourposition here today.As this Court has repeatedly stated, Congress has exceedingly broad latitude in dealing with aliens,immigration, and the Nation's borders. QUESTION: Can I have a quick answer just to --you said a facial challenge. I've been assuming that it'sa challenge brought by a resident alien who himself has aplausible claim that the statute doesn't apply to himbecause he's saying two -- you know, petty theft with a --petty theft with a prior is not -- doesn't fall within thecategory of crimes. I don't know if that's right orwrong, but shouldn't I consider the case of a person who th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC has a -- an arguable claim that he's outside the system? MR. OLSON: Well, Justice Breyer, the -- thecase has not been litigated on that basis from its verybeginning. I refer the Court to page of the jointappendix which is -- which, at the bottom of that section,articulates the requested relief by the -- by therespondent in this case. Petitioner seeks a declarationthat this provision is unconstitutional on its face asviolative --QUESTION: It uses those words, I know. I justdon't know how to consider it that way. I mean, a personwho had no claim whatsoever -- am I supposed to considerit on the basis of a person who has -- well, he would getthe removal order entered in hours if he had no claimwhatsoever.MR. OLSON: Well --QUESTION: Is that who I'm supposed to consider?MR. OLSON: Well, it --QUESTION: -- or somebody like the plaintiffhere? MR. OLSON: If this -- not only is it in thepetition for habeas corpus that the individual waschallenging on its face, the district court considered iton that basis, and the Ninth Circuit considered it on thatbasis, and it's been litigated here all the way through by th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC the -- by the respondent on that basis. If there was tobe an as-applied challenge, there would be a great deal ofother considerations.And -- and this -- as this Court has said, thefacial challenge must be rejected unless there are no setof circumstances under which the congressional policywould be upheld. QUESTION: General Olson, didn't --MR. OLSON: There -- there's been no --QUESTION: -- didn't the Ninth Circuit narrowthe group somewhat? I thought that in the district court,the district court said the whole thing falls. I thoughtthe Ninth Circuit said only as to lawfully admitted --what was it? Lawful permanent residents. And so that wasnot taking the whole thing at its face, but only a part of the total group.QUESTION: I had the same question. It's at aof the petition for the appendix. The court of appeals,in the paragraph at the bottom of a, says we stop shortof affirming the holding that it's faciallyunconstitutional.QUESTION: Right.QUESTION: We affirm the grant of habeas corpuson the ground the statute is unconstitutional as appliedto him in his status as a lawful permanent resident of the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC United States. MR. OLSON: Yes, and the Ninth Circuit -- theNinth Circuit did say that both on page -- a and -- andon page a. But what -- what the Ninth Circuit did wasissue a broad, sweeping declaration of unconstitutionalityof the statute with respect to a broad class ofindividuals, that is to say, all lawful permanentresidents. That's the equivalent of a facial decision asto unconstitutionality as to a broad spectrum of thepeople covered. And -- and --QUESTION: So it's your position, in effect,that although the Ninth Circuit said it was an appliedchallenge, in fact the Ninth Circuit itself struck itfacially.MR. OLSON: Yes, Justice --QUESTION: It just narrowed the description ofwhat it did. Is that right?MR. OLSON: That's -- that is correct, JusticeO'Connor. That's --QUESTION: But it -- but it struck it faciallyonly with respect to the permanent resident aliens.MR. OLSON: That's correct.QUESTION: To permanent resident aliens.MR. OLSON: That's correct.QUESTION: Sort of half-facial. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC (Laughter.) MR. OLSON: Mostly facial.QUESTION: Mostly facial. (Laughter.) MR. OLSON: That's -- that is what the NinthCircuit did, and it's our position that this -- this casemust be considered under those circumstances as a facialchallenge.As I was saying, the Court has repeatedly saidthat in connection with immigration and protecting theNation's borders, there is no power at which there is moredeference to congressional judgment, no authority underthe Constitution granted more to the political branches,particularly to Congress. Congress regularly makes rules,this Court has said, applicable to aliens that would be unacceptable if applied to citizens. QUESTION: Is there a regulation or -- or isthere a policy with -- in the Department of Justice or theINS which says that there has to be a conviction beforeyou utilize this section? Or if the Attorney General justhas information that a felony has been committed, is thatsufficient to detain?MR. OLSON: Well, the statute --QUESTION: Here there was a conviction.MR. OLSON: Here there was a conviction, and th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC that is specifically what is said in the statute itself. It's my understanding --QUESTION: Well, the statute itself talks abouta conviction. MR. OLSON: Absolutely. And -- and what happensin practice, Justice Kennedy, is that either the removalproceeding is brought, as Congress has suggested, ifpossible, during the period of incarceration of theindividual, or immediately upon release fromincarceration.So we were talking, to summarize, a -- this --this provision under (c) applies only to the period ofthe removal proceeding itself, which was carefullydistinguished by this Court in its Zadvydas decision of years ago. This is on -- compared to that Zadvydas decision, not an unlimited, potentially permanentdetention period, what, as the Court suggested in -- in adistinguishable situation a number of years -- years agoin the Carlson case involving members of the CommunistParty, a temporary, limited detention for the purpose ofkeeping the individual in custody, an individual who's hada full panoply of due process, having been convictedbeyond a reasonable doubt with full due process of --QUESTION: Yes, but General, it is true, is itnot, that there are people in the class who might have th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC been convicted even before the statute was passed. Soyou're not just -- just continuing detention. You have togo out and find them and -- and put them under detention.MR. OLSON: It's my understanding, JusticeStevens, that it applies to convictions after the statutewas passed. I may be misunderstanding that, and if so,I'll try to correct that during -- during rebuttal. Butthat to the vast -- that would all -- to the extent thatthat might be true and I might be mistaken, that wouldonly illustrate why this is a facial challenge. Thestatute itself should not be declared unconstitutional,particularly in connection with individuals convictedafterwards. QUESTION: What -- what about this particularindividual? MR. OLSON: This was after the statute waspassed, Mr. Chief Justice.QUESTION: General Olson, you've -- you've putin statistics about the number of -- of aliens who don'tshow up for the hearings and the -- the rather lowpercentage of those who are ultimately deported from theclass that don't show up and so on. On your view of the Government's authorityover -- over aliens and the deference that the Court owes,would our -- in your judgment should our decision be the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC same regardless of those statistics? If you had told usnothing about the -- the probabilities of catching people,should we, on your view, or would we, on your view, beobligated to defer and simply say it's up to theGovernment? MR. OLSON: Well, I think Justice Souter, theanswer to that is that the test that the Court hasconsistently applied in this area is there -- is there arational basis, is the congressional objective rationallylikely to advance a legitimate governmental purpose. Those statistics that we set forth in our brief and whichwere before Congress when Congress enacted this statute,provide the purpose for which Congress acted.QUESTION: Well -- well, is that rational basisreview the one we would employ in reviewing legislation passed by Congress concerning immigration policy? Andhave we applied a more circumscribed review over the meansof effectuating those policies? Are -- are there separatequestions? I mean, the power of Congress to pass the lawand to say what it does versus the implementation of it.MR. OLSON: Well, under certain circumstances,the Court has used that language. QUESTION: Right. MR. OLSON: The -- the means to achieve theobjective -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: Yes. MR. OLSON: -- will be looked at possiblyseparately.QUESTION: Yes. MR. OLSON: But it seems to me -- and it seemsobvious particularly in this case -- that the means arewrapped up in the objective itself.What -- it is clear Congress is dealing with avery difficult problem of a certain category or groups ofaliens that were committing serious crimes in thiscountry.QUESTION: Well, does -- is -- does that -- doyour statistics define that category as the -- the legalpermanent resident aliens or all aliens? I think it's thelatter. it's all.MR. OLSON: Well, it is -- yes, Justice Souter,QUESTION: But if it -- if it is the latter,then I don't know that the statistics tell us anything oneway or the other about the legitimacy of the ends, i.e.,the -- the automatic detention, with -- with respect tothe class that we've got under consideration here. MR. OLSON: What the statistics tell us is thatthere were large numbers of aliens committing seriouscrimes and that those -- those individuals committing th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC those crimes were highly likely to be recidivists and thatthey were -- that class of individuals or those groups ofindividuals were cultivating a criminal class that wasengaging in organized --QUESTION: But, General Olson, those statisticsgo to the likelihood of entry of the order of deportation,not of the likelihood of flight which this statute isdirected at. MR. OLSON: Well --QUESTION: As I understand the statistics --correct me if I'm wrong -- that as to the likelihood ofshowing up at the hearing itself, which this statuteprotects, percent of the people do show up.MR. OLSON: Well, percent --QUESTION: Is that correct? MR. OLSON: Well, the -- the statistics have tobe looked at very carefully because that percent -- percent of the --QUESTION: Eight out of of these criminalsshow up. MR. OLSON: Well, no. QUESTION: That's very comforting. (Laughter.)MR. OLSON: In that -- that -- well, actuallythe -- it's -- it's worse than that, Justice Scalia, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC because that figure of percent who absconded werepeople that had been, during this period of time, beengiven individualized hearings. They were the ones that,after a hearing, the authorities thought were probablylikely not to flee and percent of that group did. Whenyou look at --QUESTION: But -- but they include all aliensand not just the -- the permanent resident aliens.MR. OLSON: Yes, Justice Souter, but there's noquestion that there were large numbers of lawful permanentresident aliens that were evading the deportationproceeding itself. Once the deportation --QUESTION: Well, I presume there was some,but --QUESTION: Yes, but, General Olson, I wish you would answer this question. It's very important tounderstand the -- the Government's position on it. We'refocusing on the percentage who show up for the hearing. Am I -- and that's correct. That's what this statute isdirected at. And am I not correct that percent of thealiens in the class did show up for the hearing withoutbeing detained?MR. OLSON: No. The figure jumped to percentfor people who were never detained at all, JusticeStevens, and that's explained in the brief. The th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC percent to which you're referring are people to whichan individualized hearing was -- was given. In alone, we're talking about , aliens, criminal aliens,who had absconded. And we're not talking just aboutshowing up for the hearing because if that alien isn't incustody, he won't -- and -- and the figure jumps to percent of people that will escape the deportationorder itself if there --QUESTION: But the statute doesn't -- thestatute is not directed at the consequences after thedeportation order has been entered. Am I not right onthat? MR. OLSON: I -- I respectfully disagree in thissense, that if you have the alien in custody during the --the removal period itself, he will be in custody at the time the order is issued.QUESTION: Oh, I'm sure.MR. OLSON: If he's not, it's very difficult forthe Government --QUESTION: But if he's at the hearing, at theconclusion of the hearing, you say, lock this guy up.MR. OLSON: Well, that -- that is not the waythe process works, Justice Stevens. There is a potentialappeal that the individual can take --QUESTION: No, but this statute is not directed th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC at the time during potential appeal. It's directed atthe -- as I understand it -- now, you correct me if I'mwrong.MR. OLSON: No.QUESTION: As I understand the statute, it'sdirected at the time before the hearing starts.MR. OLSON: Yes, it is, and the Government --and the Congress --QUESTION: So why can't the immigration judge atthe end of the hearing say, A, you're going to be removed,and B, you -- you go in the clink until your -- you goaway?MR. OLSON: Well, but this -- let me answer itthis way. That to percent -- and the statistics aredifficult in this area. There are such large numbers of individuals. We're talking about , criminalsconvicted of serious crimes per year that are -- gothrough this process. If -- if we're losing -- even percent of those individuals that are absconding fromthe process and not available for deportation or removal,that is the -- that is what Congress regarded as a veryserious problem. QUESTION: I grant that --QUESTION: But, General Olson, you don'tnecessarily lose them. All you're being asked to do is to th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC have an individualized hearing as to each member of that percent. MR. OLSON: But that percent, JusticeStevens -- and it's explained in the brief. That percent were the individuals for which there had beenan individualized hearing given during that period of timewhen that process was taking place. If you don't have anindividualized hearing, of course, the numbers go uphigher.QUESTION: But why can't you deal with thatproblem with a standard that's tough, that's differentfrom having the hearing? After all, we give bail pendingappeal to criminals who have been convicted. We give bailto alien terrorists who are about to be deported. Whycouldn't you have a tough standard but, nonetheless --like bail pending appeal, but, nonetheless, give the bailhearing to the person who's willing to come in and he'dhave to show, you know, he's not going to run away, he'snot a danger, and he has a good issue on the merits?MR. OLSON: One of the -- one of the problemsthat Congress had is that it had experimented with thatprocess. It was not being successful. The individualswere absconding notwithstanding --QUESTION: I don't think there was a toughstandard. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. OLSON: Well, it -- it appeared -- itappeared to Congress and it appeared to the immigrationauthorities to be a reasonably tough standard.The problem with criminal aliens is that once --once they enter this process, once they've been convictedafter due process of having committed a serious crime andonce they're in that process, which is virtually certainto lead to removal -- I mean, this is -- removal isautomatic --QUESTION: What I -- what I'm worried -- I seethat, and what I'm worried about on the other side ofit -- I'm -- I can see also how you could limit it like tobail pending appeal, a tough standard. The other side ofit is the alien who's there and who's the wrong person orthe -- or the statute doesn't apply to him or there's a crime that they say he committed which he didn't. I mean,there could --QUESTION: Isn't he able to challenge thosepoints? MR. OLSON: Pardon me?QUESTION: I thought those points can bechallenged. I thought he can get a hearing as to thosepoints. MR. OLSON: That's -- that's correct, Justice --QUESTION: We're only talking about people as to th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC whom it's acknowledged that they committed the crime, it'sacknowledged that they're deportable. And the only reasonthey may not get deported is the Attorney General mightexercise discretion to let them into the country.MR. OLSON: That's -- that's precisely correct.QUESTION: That is correct. So if, in fact, Ihave a good claim, I'm let out on bail while they'reconsidering it?MR. OLSON: If -- no. If you have a -- if youas --QUESTION: You can take it to court.MR. OLSON: -- and I think it's on page -- pages and of the Government's brief sets forth the -- theregulations of the -- of the Immigration andNaturalization Service that provide that you may have an immediate hearing if it is not you, if you are a citizen,if you contend that you didn't -- weren't convicted of acrime --QUESTION: If you have a claim, you're let outon bail while they consider the claim?MR. OLSON: It's my understanding that whathappens is that there's an immediate, or a relativelyprompt individualized hearing. I'm not positive of theanswer to that question, but there is the hearing that theNinth Circuit talked about -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: Yes.MR. OLSON: -- an individualized hearing,which -- which would have applied all the way across theboard --QUESTION: Well, given --MR. OLSON: -- in those cases under thoseregulations. QUESTION: Given that, General Olson, that we'reonly talking about people who have acknowledged -- youknow, who have no claim that they didn't commit the crime,who have no claim that they are not deportable, why do wehave to rely upon whether percent of them will flee or percent, or even -- you know, or none of them willflee? Why is it -- does the Government concede that it'sunreasonable to say, look, somebody who has no right to be at large in this country -- he's here illegally, has noright to be at large. And besides that, on top of that,he's already committed a crime in this country. He shouldleave the country, and we're going to hold him in custodyuntil he leaves. If he wants to fight that -- thatdeparture, that's fine, but he will be in custody until hedeparts. What is -- what is wrong with that?MR. OLSON: Well, we're -- I'm not quarrellingwith your characterization of what --QUESTION: No, but you're -- you're fighting it th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC on the -- on the ground that somehow we have to prove --MR. OLSON: No. No, Justice --QUESTION: -- that a large number of them willflee.MR. OLSON: No. I'm simply --QUESTION: It seems to me that even if none ofthem would flee, if they have no right to be here, ifthey've committed a crime, why cannot -- they cannot beheld in -- in custody until they leave?MR. OLSON: This -- we may well be here onanother occasion defending a broader policy. But let meemphasize the facts that distinguish what you'resuggesting and what the Court considered in the Zadvydascase, an immense difference that exists between thecircumstances here, and the circumstances under those circumstances. QUESTION: Before you get to -- to Zadvydas andthe distinction, you -- you make, I take it, nodistinction between lawful permanent residents and peoplewho are excludable. People who are lawful permanentresidents have many rights in common with citizens. Indeed, this Court once said that they were a suspectclassification. But as far as this case is concerned, itseems to me you're making no distinction at all.MR. OLSON: The statute makes no distinction. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC The Ninth Circuit, of course, did with respect toexcludable aliens, said that with that category of aliens,the statute -- even under the Ninth Circuit's reasoning,the statute was constitutional. What we -- the statute doesn't make thatdistinction, but what it does do is it provides for abrief, limited detention, which is not unlimited and notpotentially permanent, of aliens, an area of Congress'authorities at its zenith, convicted beyond a reasonabledoubt with --QUESTION: But it might be of a crime thatthey -- one of the claims here is that this is not aqualifying plot -- crime. I don't get into that box. Nowthat may be wrong or right, but suppose -- on yourreading, or under this statute, someone would not be able to get bail despite a good claim that they are counting acrime that doesn't qualify as one of these seriousoffenses.MR. OLSON: That's the question that I believe Iaddressed earlier that's referred to, the regulations --and I hope I'm correct -- at pages and of theGovernment's brief. The -- the regulations provide forsomeone claiming who is claiming that they are a citizenas opposed to an alien, or claiming that the crime forwhich they've been convicted was not a covered crime, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC may -- may have an accelerated hearing, which is -- whichis --QUESTION: In other words, for the class thatwe're talking about, it's rather artificial to talk aboutlawful resident aliens because they can get a hearing onwhether their continuing residence is lawful. They --they are determined to be deportable. They are no longerlawful resident aliens. MR. OLSON: That -- that is correct. QUESTION: Well, General Olson, aren't theylawful resident aliens until an order is entered that theybe deported?MR. OLSON: What they are is what -- they are --they are lawful resident aliens until there's an order ofdeportation, but --QUESTION: All right. So at the -- at the pointof the -- we'll call it the preliminary hearing, theJoseph hearing, when they can bring these challenges,there is no order that they be deported, and they,therefore, have got to be considered, as I understand it,as lawful resident aliens. MR. OLSON: They -- however, they have -- theyhave been convicted after due process of a crime thatCongress considers serious, and they're being held for alimited period of time -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: And they can get a hearing on whetherthey are lawful resident aliens. MR. OLSON: That's correct. QUESTION: Can they? In effect, they can get ahearing on whether they are lawful resident aliens.MR. OLSON: That's correct, Justice Scalia. QUESTION: Well --MR. OLSON: Mr. Chief Justice, if -- if I mayreserve the remainder --QUESTION: Very well, General Olson.Ms. Rabinovitz, we'll hear from you.ORAL ARGUMENT OF JUDY RABINOVITZON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTMS. RABINOVITZ: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court:The question in this case is whether Congressauthorized and, if so, whether the Due Process Clausepermits a statute that requires that lawful permanentresidents like our client be imprisoned throughout theduration of removal proceedings. QUESTION: Ms. Rabinovitz, do you have aresponse to the jurisdiction problem? I mean, it'spossible that despite the Government's failure to raiseit, that we could do so.And why doesn't section tell the courts to th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC keep hands off?MS. RABINOVITZ: Yes, Your Honor. We agree withthe Solicitor General's explanation for why this Court didnot --QUESTION: I have to tell you I don't understandit. I thought maybe you'd enlighten me there. (Laughter.) MS. RABINOVITZ: This -- this statute containsno express language that repeals habeas jurisdiction. That's one answer that I could give you, Your Honor, andbased on this Court's decision in St. Cyr and Calcano,absent that -- that language, the habeas -- there's stilljurisdiction in --QUESTION: How could that language not repealhabeas jurisdiction? No court may set aside any action by the Attorney General under this section. How can -- howcan that -- I mean, what can you do in habeas corpusunless you're setting aside action by the Attorney Generalunder this section? How can that possibly not set asidehabeas corpus?MS. RABINOVITZ: But this Court has said --QUESTION: I mean, now, maybe you want to argueit's unconstitutional, but gee, to say that it doesn't dothis is -- I mean, it's -- it's incredible.QUESTION: Well, the Court in St. Cyr, with th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC which both Justice Scalia and I disagreed, said somethingvery much like that, didn't it, that you had to be veryspecific if you were going to repeal habeas jurisdiction? MS. RABINOVITZ: Yes.QUESTION: Try Johnson v. Robson too.MS. RABINOVITZ: The point is that this statuterequires the Government to detain individuals like ourclient who are lawful permanent residents not becausetheir detention is necessary to protect the public fromdanger of flight risk, but merely because they wereconvicted in the past for one of a broad range of crimesthat the Government believes may render them deportable.QUESTION: Can -- you say the Governmentbelieves it. The Congress believed it, did it not?MS. RABINOVITZ: Well, Your Honor, the question that remains to be determined in all these cases iswhether an individual is, in fact, deportable. Congressdid decide that certain kinds of crimes should render anindividual deportable and these individuals have beenconvicted of crimes. But the fact --QUESTION: What more do we need?MS. RABINOVITZ: The fact that they've beenconvicted of a crime, Mr. Chief Justice, doesn't mean thatit's a crime that renders them deportable under thestatute. And I think that this addresses, in part, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Justice Kennedy's question about have they been -- is thisjust that they're suspected of committing crimes or havethey been convicted of crimes. QUESTION: Well, but in -- in this case, your --your client was convicted, was he not?MS. RABINOVITZ: Yes, Mr. Chief Justice --QUESTION: So --MS. RABINOVITZ: He was convicted, but therestill is a question about whether his conviction actuallyrenders him deportable.QUESTION: And what question is that? DoesCongress in the statute set forth the crimes?MS. RABINOVITZ: No, Your Honor. Congress setsforth a -- a broad category of crimes that can rendersomebody deportable, and one of those is -- is a broad category that are labeled aggravated felonies.The question, though -- and this is a questionthat has been very hotly litigated in the courts -- iswhether a conviction is an aggravated felony. And in thiscase, that question is especially relevant because in ourclient's case, the conviction that he was --QUESTION: Well, did -- did you -- but the NinthCircuit didn't go off on that basis, did it?MS. RABINOVITZ: No, Your Honor. The NinthCircuit -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: So are you going to -- are you goingto defend the Ninth Circuit's basis here?MS. RABINOVITZ: We're defending the NinthCircuit's ruling, Your Honor.I'm -- I'm just explaining that this issue aboutwhether somebody is deportable is an open issue, andthat's precisely what the -- that's precisely what adeportation proceeding is to determine.QUESTION: Now, Ms. Rabinovitz, I had -- I hadunderstood from General Olson -- and please, you know, ifit's wrong, I -- I want to know it -- that -- that yourclient could get a hearing on that particular issue,whether the crime he's being -- he has been convicted ofis one of the crimes that entails deportation. Is -- isnot true that he can -- that he gets a hearing on that? MS. RABINOVITZ: He gets a hearing --QUESTION: Individualized hearing.MS. RABINOVITZ: He gets a hearing, Your Honor,but it's a very limited hearing to the extent that thathearing does not determine that he has, in fact, beenconvicted of a crime that renders him deportable. Allthat it --QUESTION: In other words, it's a hearing thatsays you were convicted of X or you weren't convictedof X. It's not a hearing that says that X renders you th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC deportable. Is that the point?MS. RABINOVITZ: Yes, although, Your Honor, itdoes say that the Government is not substantially unlikelyto prevail on its charge, so -- that you are deportable. So -- and essentially it --QUESTION: So it --MS. RABINOVITZ: -- it says that there isreason -- there's a possibility. It's not impossible thatyou will be found deportable. You -- that it's not --since the Government is not substantially unlikely toprevail on the charge. I think it's important to recognize that thereare many individuals who are subjected to mandatorydetention under this statute who cannot satisfy thatstandard. In fact, that that -- they've had that hearing and the court has held the Government substantially -- youknow, we can't show that the Government is substantiallyunlikely to prevail. QUESTION: I mean, I have a reason. I mean, nowI am -- I'm confused on this and I'd appreciate it. I --I assume there is someone in prison. He's detained likeyour client. There's a class of people. There are twosubgroups. Group is a group that has no non-frivolousargument that they shouldn't be deported. It's virtuallyconceded they're -- they should be deported. Their only th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC arguments against it are frivolous. Group are peoplewho have a real non-frivolous argument -- a real non-frivolous argument -- that they aren't -- it's the wrongperson, this crime doesn't fall within the statutorydefinition, I probably will get asylum, something likethat. They have a real non-frivolous argument. Now, I thought that what we were talking about,at least in part, was that people in this group werebeing held without bail. Now, am I right? Because Ithink what I heard the Solicitor General say is I'm wrong. We're only talking about people in group .MS. RABINOVITZ: No --QUESTION: That was just, I think, what JusticeScalia was concerned about. That's just what I'mconcerned about, and I'd appreciate some elaboration on it. MS. RABINOVITZ: No, Your Honor. You'reabsolutely right. We are talking about the secondcategory of cases.QUESTION: But aren't there one-and-a-half or --there's this Joseph hearing. It's not just that eitheryou have a hearing or you don't have a hearing. You havethe hearing that Justice Souter was referring to whereyour burden is enormous because you will not succeed atthat hearing if you show it's more likely than not that th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC this crime is -- doesn't qualify as serious. You have toshow overwhelmingly that the Government will win on thatissue in it. So -- but there is something other than --There's this Joseph hearing, which you say is notadequate, is it? MS. RABINOVITZ: Yes, Your Honor. It's exactly --QUESTION: You're -- you're not asking just forindividualized hearings on those items, are you? You're -- you're not just asking for individualizedhearings on whether you are the person that did the --that -- that was convicted and whether the -- the crime ofconviction causes you to be deportable. You want ahearing on whether, if you are let go, you will show upfor -- for a later hearing.And I don't see why -- why that is necessary --MS. RABINOVITZ: Yes --QUESTION: -- so long -- so long as you get ahearing on those other substantive points, it seems to methe Government ought to be able to hold you, an alien whohas no right to be at large in this country, until youleave.MS. RABINOVITZ: Let me try -- let me try toexplain how the statute works and why we believe that it'sa problem. The -- the proceeding that you're asking for, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC a determination about whether, in fact, an individual isdeportable, is precisely what a deportation hearing isfor, and that kind of decision is not made the first timeyou come before an immigration judge. It's often a veryprotracted process, and we have individuals who have --who have been in jail for months pending an immigrationjudge hearing to determine that exact question, JusticeScalia, about whether they are, in fact, deportable, whichis why we say that the relevant question is whetherpending those proceedings, there's a regulatory purpose indetaining that individual. And we're not --QUESTION: Well, and the -- the Governmentanswers that there's a substantial number of people whodon't show up for these hearings, and that's the purposeof holding them. So that certainly is a regulatory purpose.MS. RABINOVITZ: Yes, Mr. Chief Justice, that isa regulatory purpose. But this Court looks to theregulatory purpose in an individual's case when you'retalking about depriving somebody of a significant libertyinterest, which is what's here. We don't allow people tobe locked up based on averages.QUESTION: Well, but you -- look -- look at theimmigration cases. Look at Carlson against Landon. I mean, that certainly was a class, not an individual. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MS. RABINOVITZ: No, Your Honor, Mr. ChiefJustice. I respectfully -- I read Carlson differently. In Carlson, what this Court did is it upheld the AttorneyGeneral's discretionary decision that five individualscould be detained because there was -- that -- thedecision to detain them was with not -- was not withoutreasonable foundation. It was a discretionary decision. It's wholly different from this case. What makes this statute so unique and sounprecedented is that the Government is prohibited. There's no discretion here. The Attorney General isprohibited from releasing individuals like our client, alawful permanent resident who has a legal right to behere, even when --QUESTION: Well, who has the legal right to be here, although he's been convicted of a crime which makeshim deportable.MS. RABINOVITZ: No, Mr. Chief Justice. It'snot clear that this conviction makes him deportable. Infact --QUESTION: Well, it's clear he's been convicted.MS. RABINOVITZ: He's been convicted of a crime,but it's not clear that this conviction renders himdeportable. That's precisely what a deportationproceeding is for. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: You mean the first degree burglaryconviction --MS. RABINOVITZ: Both --QUESTION: -- is not an aggravated felony?MS. RABINOVITZ: Not necessarily, Your Honor. That remains to be determined, but --QUESTION: Well, how could a first degreeburglary not be an aggravated felony?MS. RABINOVITZ: That's a good question,Mr. Chief Justice.QUESTION: Well, it's a very good question. (Laughter.) MS. RABINOVITZ: But -- but -- yes. But let mepoint out -- I refer you to the -- the amicus brief for --by Citizens and -- and Immigrants for Equal Justice. It'sone of these green briefs. And it's on page of theirbrief. They referred to a case, the Solorzano-Patlancase, where an individual was convicted of entering anautomobile with intent to commit theft, and the Board ofImmigration of Appeals said -- or the -- the -- excuse me. The immigration judge said exactly what -- what you havesaid, which is that how could this crime not be anaggravated felony? It's a burglary, entering anautomobile with intent to commit theft.One-and-a-half years after our client -- after th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC this person -- excuse me -- he wasn't our client -- wasdetained, the Seventh Circuit disagreed. Despite what theBoard of Immigration Appeals said that how could thiscrime not be a burglary --QUESTION: Well, but -- it's not just a questionof being a burglary. First degree burglary usually meanswith -- with people present and on the premises.MS. RABINOVITZ: Mr. Chief Justice --QUESTION: Of course, the Seventh -- SeventhCircuit might have been wrong.(Laughter.) MS. RABINOVITZ: That's a good point, YourHonor, but the Government did not petition for cert inthat case. And -- and the point that I want to make --QUESTION: Well, it sounds like you're -- you'restill seeking some kind of facial invalidation of thestatute rather than as applied to your client.MS. RABINOVITZ: No, Your Honor, we're notseeking --QUESTION: Because you're relying on aconviction of someone else for a different kind of acrime. MS. RABINOVITZ: No.QUESTION: Are we talking about this person as th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC an as-applied challenge, or do we have a facial challenge?MS. RABINOVITZ: Your Honor, this is definitelyan as-applied challenge, and I refer you to page --QUESTION: So we are talking about the firstdegree burglary --MS. RABINOVITZ: Yes, we are.QUESTION: -- not entering a car with intent tocommit theft. MS. RABINOVITZ: Right, right. My point with raising that example was just topoint out that the question of what constitutes anaggravated felony is very contested.QUESTION: And isn't it the --QUESTION: Well, but not in this case.QUESTION: Not in this case. First degreeburglary. MS. RABINOVITZ: Oh, it -- it certainly is. Itremains a question about whether this is an aggravatedfelony --QUESTION: Well, but --MS. RABINOVITZ: -- because you need to look atthe precise --QUESTION: Justice Breyer's classification ofpeople who have really serious claims and people who havefrivolous claims -- surely a claim that first degree th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC burglary is not deportable under the statute would vergeon the frivolous. MS. RABINOVITZ: Mr. Chief Justice, I need to --to disagree with you. It's unclear. To decide whetherthis is -- is an aggravated felony, the Court is going toneed to look at the specific language of the statute. The -- the specific crime that our client committed was hebroke and entered into a tool shed and he was convictedunder California State law. This is a very complicated,technical area of the law.And all that I can tell you is that if you referto our brief at page , note -- oh, no. Excuse me. That's not the place. To our brief at -- our brief atpage , note , we note numerous examples where thequestion of whether something is an aggravated felony has been contested and decided --QUESTION: Do you -- you consider whether hebroke into an inhabited tool shed, I guess, to be notwithin the statute, and the other side thinks it is.MS. RABINOVITZ: Right. Right. Right.QUESTION: In your opinion, would -- would --and this goes back to my initial question which I'mstill -- haven't heard you really answer. Look, onappeal, somebody who has been convicted of a crime, inorder to get out on -- on appeal -- have bail on appeal, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC he has to show not only he wouldn't run away, not only heisn't a danger, but also that he raises a substantialquestion.Now, suppose that we were to say at least thosepeople who show that they raise a substantial question --a substantial question -- and it says not for purposes ofdelay -- that as to those people, you have to have anindividualized hearing. MS. RABINOVITZ: In this case, if we're talkingabout somebody who raises a non-frivolous challenge likeour client, that would satisfy this case because thisis --QUESTION: Well, I'm not saying if it'd satisfythe case, though I take it from what you say it wouldsatisfy you and your position.MS. RABINOVITZ: Your Honor, I misspoke. What Imeant is that in this case, this is an as-appliedchallenge. It's a -- it's a challenge about whether thisstatute as applied to our client who's a lawful permanentresident, who has bona fide challenges that he is notdeportable and is eligible for relief from deportation,that in this case, applying the statute to him isunconstitutional. QUESTION: So to keep someone in prison withoutbail, after they've been convicted of something, pending a th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC deportation order is not constitutional without anindividualized hearing at least if -- or don't say atleast -- if, among other things, he shows there is asubstantial question not for purposes of delay. Imaginean opinion that said that. Would you argue for or againstthat opinion? MS. RABINOVITZ: I would argue for that opinionin this case because it would resolve this case. Ibelieve that there also might be -- there would be aconstitutional issue that even somebody else -- dueprocess requires that they have an opportunity to showthat they're not a danger and a flight risk because thatis the purpose of regulatory detention. And as the --QUESTION: I -- I note that you have redefinedsubstantial question as non-frivolous. Anything that'snot sanctionable raises a substantial question forpurposes of -- of this new rule?MS. RABINOVITZ: Yes, Your Honor --QUESTION: Wow.MS. RABINOVITZ: -- and -- and it has to be thatway because there are so many examples of circuit courtsfinding that the board's decision about what constitutes adeportable offense is wrong and yet, that those were caseswhere the individual could -- where their -- their claimmight have been considered bordering on the frivolous, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC even though it wasn't. And let give you a very --QUESTION: That -- that is true but all --MS. RABINOVITZ: Let me give you an example.QUESTION: -- all of -- at least for people whohave committed their crimes after this statute wasenacted, it seems to me that they are on notice. If youget convicted of a felony, your -- your welcome in thiscountry is at an end if it's an aggravated felony, and youwill be held until it is -- it is finally determinedwhether that is, indeed, an aggravated felony or not. I don't know that that's terribly unfair.MS. RABINOVITZ: But your question presupposesthe answer. You're saying --QUESTION: No, it doesn't. It -- it's just one of the risks you take when you commit a felony. Your --it's -- it's part of -- of the condition of youradmittance to this country. Once this statute is passed,any lawful resident alien knows that if he commits afelony and it's an aggravated felony, he will be deported.MS. RABINOVITZ: Two points.QUESTION: And -- and until the question ofwhether it is an aggravated felony, assuming it's at leastarguable, is decided, he will be held in custody and notpermitted to be at large in this country. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Now, that doesn't strike me as terriblyunreasonable. Just don't do the felony.MS. RABINOVITZ: Well, two points, Your Honor. First, in this case, the conviction that is now beingconsidered as possibly an aggravated felony was committedbefore the statute took effect. So even under YourHonor's proposal, the statute could not apply to him.In terms of what you're suggesting, though, ifCongress was to say that anybody who -- there still is anissue of whether somebody is, in fact, deportable, and tocondition -- and -- and this Court has recognized thatindividuals who are facing deportation, particularlylawful permanent residents, have a right to a fairhearing. To say that those individuals must give up theirright to physical liberty --QUESTION: Well, but there's no question thatthese people are going to get a fair hearing eventually. The question you're challenging is whether they shouldbe -- be incarcerated pending that hearing. So we're nottalking about a fair hearing.MS. RABINOVITZ: You're right, Your Honor,Mr. Chief Justice. But the -- the point is that ifsomebody is locked up for a year-and-a-half, and theycan't get the evidence for their case, because beinglocked up in jails also makes it much harder for people to th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC present their cases, there's no right to appointedcounsel. It means they can't work.There are -- and this is, again, where I wouldlike to refer you, just in general, to the amicus brief bythe Citizens and Immigrants for Equal Justice which pointsout other cases where individuals gave up their claimsbecause otherwise they were going to be in detention forso long.And let me just point out one other --QUESTION: Well, you -- you've got someone whois an alien here. The alien has committed a felony. I mean, it's difficult to -- for me to say that theyshould have all these additional benefits so that somehowthey can avoid deportation.MS. RABINOVITZ: Well -- well, first of all, Mr. Chief Justice, this -- it's not only for people whoare convicted of felonies. Even the definition --QUESTION: Well, but that's with the case we'redealing of here. MS. RABINOVITZ: Okay, but the -- the questionis what -- what constitutes an aggravated felony. Misdemeanors constitute an aggravated felony as well. You're right. In this case, the initial conviction --QUESTION: What -- what do you -- what do youmean, misdemeanors constitute an aggravated felony? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MS. RABINOVITZ: I know it's somewhat shocking,Mr. Chief Justice, but, in fact, the way that aggravatedfelony has been defined so broadly --QUESTION: Well --MS. RABINOVITZ: -- the courts have held thateven misdemeanors can be aggravated felonies. QUESTION: But there's no question that firstdegree burglary is not a misdemeanor. So, in our case,that's not -- we don't have to worry about that, do we?MS. RABINOVITZ: But let me return to the pointabout whether it's -- whether due process is satisfied byrequiring that somebody be mandatorily detained throughoutthe process of their deportation proceeding, a processwhich, as I said, can be months, often years, without anyindividualized determination of danger and flight risk. And the example that I wanted to give ties backwith this Court's decision in St. Cyr, which said that(c) relief was available to individuals whoseconvictions -- who had pled guilty prior to -- to thestatute having taken effect. All of those individualswere subject to mandatory detention under the statute. Their claim would have been considered close to frivolousuntil the Supreme Court ruled differently. QUESTION: Well, that's -- that's -- I mean,your argument to me rings true for people who have real th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC claims, but if you're trying to apply it to a person whohas an insubstantial claim or a claim that is interposedfor purposes of delay, I'm tempted to say, well, there's avery good reason to keep him locked up, namely, he doesn'thave any argument and he's about to be deported and -- andif he wants to be deported quickly, he can be. MS. RABINOVITZ: Your Honor, that's --QUESTION: But if he has a substantial claim,it's different. MS. RABINOVITZ: Your Honor, I think it'simportant to recognize that that's precisely the kind offactors that the Immigration Service and the immigrationjudge looks at when they make a determination whethersomebody should be released on bond. They -- when they'redetermining flight risk, that's precisely what they look at. They say, oh, this is a frivolous -- this is afrivolous claim. We're not going to release this personon bond because they're not going to show up. And we'renot saying that individuals in that situation should bereleased from detention. All that we're saying is that an individualneeds to be given some opportunity to demonstrate, look,I was convicted of this crime, but I have claims forrelief. I'm not a flight risk. I'm not a danger.QUESTION: Would you say that -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MS. RABINOVITZ: And I think it's important tolook at --QUESTION: Would you agree that the alien hasthe burden of showing that?MS. RABINOVITZ: Your Honor, we have no --QUESTION: In your -- in your regime, youwould -- would there be any problem putting the burden onthe alien to show that?MS. RABINOVITZ: We have no problem withCongress creating a presumption that individuals who arecharged with these kinds of -- with being deportable forthese kinds of crimes are a danger and are a flight risk,and that they need to come forward to show that they'renot. And in fact --QUESTION: Well, but I -- I'll get to that in a minute. But insofar as the substantiality or -- or thelikelihood of prevailing -- forget about flight risk for amoment. Insofar as the likelihood of prevailing and thesubstantiality of the -- of the issue, that's almost whatthe statute already provides for in a bail determinationhearing, as set forth on page of the Government'sbrief. A person in INS custody is -- is entitled to abond determination hearing. And the standard is whetheror not the Government is -- he has to show the Governmentis substantially unlikely to prevail. That's very -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC forget flight risk for a moment. That is very close tothe regime that you propose. So I don't see what we'rearguing about here as to that.Now, if you want to say that you're entitled torelease if you're not a flight risk, that's somethingquite different. And I would -- and I would doubt thelatter, but --MS. RABINOVITZ: Let me try to clarify what Ibelieve is some confusion about what that hearing does. The hearing essentially just shows you need to show thatthe Government has no frivolous claim. That's essentiallywhat you need to show. I mean, you have to show that theGovernment had -- that the Government's charge isfrivolous. And I would assume that the Government is notputting people into proceedings if they have no possible argument. But to require that an individual be locked upthroughout the whole deportation process just because theycannot show that the Government has a -- has a frivolousclaim, that doesn't satisfy due process. In terms of burden, Your Honor, what I wasreferring to -- what I thought you were referring to iswhether an individual is going to have an obligation toshow that they're not a danger of flight risk. Buteven --QUESTION: Well, perhaps that's why I asked you th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC that question first. It -- it does seem to me that if youconcede that he has the burden, that that is really very,very close to what the -- the statute already provides,forgetting about flight risk for the moment, or -- or --MS. RABINOVITZ: Yes, Your Honor. I don't --I don't see it that way. I see that the question about ifyou need -- if an individual has to prove that theGovernment's argument is frivolous, that's not the samething as showing that you have a non-frivolous claim. Andthat's all that we're saying. I think that they'recompletely different. One is showing that theGovernment's argument is frivolous.I don't -- most of the cases where individualswere found not deportable, it wasn't that the Government'sclaim was frivolous, but those individuals prevailed in their proceedings. And that's the issue here, whether --whether an individual can be detained for a substantialperiod of time without any opportunity to show that --that there's no purpose that's served by their detention.And I think that -- that this case is a perfectexample because in this case, once the district court --our client was detained for months without anyindividualized determination. The district court thensaid due process requires an individualized determination,and the INS, the Immigration Service, on its own decided th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC he poses no danger and he can be released on ,-dollarbond. And he's been out for the past -and-a-half years. He's now getting his college degree. He's working.If the Government prevails in this appeal, itwill have no choice but to re-incarcerate him throughouthis proceedings. It's not a question of discretion likeCarlson, where they can make that determination. And going back to your question about burden, Ithink it's important to recognize that the regime that wasin place prior to this statute, and that is now in placein those circuits where they've said that the statuteneeds to be interpreted to -- or that the statute -- dueprocess requires an individualized determination, stillrequires that an individual show that they are not adanger of flight risk. They bear that burden. And sounder this system, no individual who's a danger of flightrisk is going to be released except for those cases wherethere's, you know, obviously going to be error. But ingeneral, individuals who are a danger of flight riskaren't going to be released. I think it -- there's one last point that Iwould like to make because I realize my time is short,which is that this case poses a serious constitutionalproblem, and we believe that there is a way that thisCourt can avoid that problem by construing the statute to th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC not apply to individuals like our client who are, in fact,not deportable. The statute says that individuals shall bemandatorily detained. An individual who is deportable onone of these grounds is subject to mandatory detention. As we've been talking about here, in fact, the question ofwhether he is deportable remains very much to be decided. He doesn't have any order of deportation.QUESTION: Ms. Rabinovitz, why wasn't JudgeFletcher absolutely right in rejecting that claim? Because the language is when the alien is released fromcriminal custody. MS. RABINOVITZ: Because --QUESTION: The statute directs custody when thealien is released from criminal custody, and not at some later time, not at the time of the issuance of a removalorder. MS. RABINOVITZ: Because I think that what JudgeFletcher was not aware of is that the whole regime rightnow that the Immigration Service has is to conductdeportation proceedings while individuals are stillserving their criminal sentence, which makes completesense, because then you do not have this problem. Peopleare already ordered deported, determined deportable whilethey are still in jail. And so the -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: But still, if the statute says whenreleased from criminal custody, even before release, butit doesn't say at the later time of the final removalorder.MS. RABINOVITZ: There's two different issues,Justice Ginsburg. One is when -- is deportable. It says,when released. Our point is only that there areindividuals who have deportation proceedings while they'rein prison, and there will be an immigration judge decisionor a BIA decision that says they are deportable.Now, they may still be seeking review of thatdecision in the Federal courts, in which case, thatdecision is not final and they would not fit under thenext statute, the statute that you -- that this Courtconstrued in -- in Zadvydas, which was , but they would -- or excuse me -- . But they would still havean order of deportation, and then, that would be a way tosay that individual is deportable.Whereas, here you have a situation where anybodywho the Government charges with being deportable -- inthis case, our client, even though he may not actually bedeportable -- is subject to mandatory detention forpossibly a year, years, however long. I see my time is up.QUESTION: Thank you, Ms. Rabinovitz. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Mr. Olson, General Olson, you have minutesremaining. REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF THEODORE B. OLSONON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERSQUESTION: General Olson, I don't want tointrude upon your rebuttal time, but I have one questionthat's very important for me and you can answer it yes orno. Assuming I disagree with you as to the reading of thestatute as to whether there is jurisdiction in this case,if there is no jurisdiction, is that provision of thestatute in the view of the Government unconstitutional? MR. OLSON: No. Now, we haven't briefed andstudied that and -- and I have to rely on the answer thatI gave before. But I think that that would be a correctwith -- it would be within the power of Congress to do that under certain circumstances. QUESTION: Well, you can rely on the presumptionof constitutionality if you haven't briefed it. (Laughter.) MR. OLSON: Well, then I would've have to answerthe question differently. Well, if -- I guess no, I guess I would --that -- that's a good answer. Let me -- let me --(Laughter.) th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. OLSON: Let me just deal with a few thingsthat were raised during my colleague's argument. First of all, the date of the offense that'sinvolved in this case was after the enactment of thisstatute. On page of the respondent's brief, it isasserted that he was convicted of petty theft with priorsand sentenced to years' imprisonment in . That waswhen that conviction took place. Secondly -- and I think a lot of time has beenexpended with respect to the question that focused inlarge part by Justice Breyer. What happens if it's notthe individual? What happens if he's really a citizen? What happens if he wants to challenge whether this crimewas one that should be covered?As we said on page -- and we cite the relevant provision of the INS regulations -- those typesof things can be challenged in an individualized bondhearing at which the -- which is what the Ninth Circuitwas talking about and which is what our opponents aretalking about here, and that those issues may be raised atthat point, which is precisely what the respondents aretalking about. So that's already built into the statute.Now, one might quarrel with whether -- what theburden of proof is, and where it should be and how itshould be written, but that's a -- this is a determination th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC by the executive branch with respect to the statute. Ifthe alien can show that the INS is substantially unlikelyto prevail on its underlying charge of removability, thenthe individual may be released on bond. If the decisiongoes against the individual, that can be taken to theBoard of Immigration Appeals. So there's a process thattakes care of precisely those -- that category , as youput it. Now, that does not deal with the question ofdangerousness or risk of flight, but that's what Congresswas concerned about when it -- when it enacted thestatute. Congress was concerned about a situation inwhich large numbers of individuals who commit seriouscrimes -- and Congress went to the effort of define whatit thought -- defining what it thought was serious crimes. Now, if there is some question about that in anindividual case, or if there's some question about anaberrational lengthy detention, that should be brought tothis Court or the courts below in an as-applied challenge. The respondent is saying here today that this is anas-applied challenge, but that has never been the way thiscase has been litigated from the petition, which I citedas a facial challenge, through the district court'sdecision to the -- to the as -- the -- the facialchallenge in part of the decision of the Ninth Circuit. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC This has been a challenge to the congressionaldetermination that people who commit serious crimes areto -- to be deportable as rapidly as possible. They -- and -- and to the -- in order for thatpolicy to be effectuated, for our borders to be protected,to avoid the acculturation of a criminal alien class inthe United States that's operating freely, for a limitedperiod of time, that individual will be detained duringthat process until the final order of deportation isentered. percent of the aliens that are brought intothese procedures don't even challenge the immigrationdecision -- immigration judge decision, and more than halfof those cases are resolved within days. Thestatistics are in the brief.QUESTION: Thank you, General Olson.MR. OLSON: Thank you. CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: The case is submitted.(Whereupon, at : a.m., the case in theabove-entitled matter was submitted.) th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC 