 IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XRICKY BELL, WARDEN, Petitioner ::v. : No. -GARY BRADFORD CONE. :- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XWashington, D.C.Monday, March , The above-entitled matter came on for oralargument before the Supreme Court of the United States at: a.m.APPEARANCES:MICHAEL E. MOORE, ESQ., Solicitor General, Nashville,Tennessee; on behalf of the Petitioner.LISA S. BLATT, ESQ., Assistant to the Solicitor General,Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on behalf ofthe United States, as amicus curiae, supporting thePetitioner. ROBERT L. HUTTON, ESQ., Memphis, Tennessee; on behalfof the Respondent. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC C O N T E N T SORAL ARGUMENT OF MICHAEL E. MOORE, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioner LISA S. BLATT, ESQ.On behalf of the United States, as amicus curiae, supporting the Petitioner ROBERT L. HUTTON, ESQ.On behalf of the Respondent PAGE th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC P R O C E E D I N G S(: a.m.)CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: We'll hear argumentnow in No. -, Ricky Bell v. Gary Bradford Cone.Mr. -- Mr. Moore.ORAL ARGUMENT OF MICHAEL E. MOOREON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERMR. MOORE: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it pleasethe Court:The court of appeals was without authority togrant habeas relief under U.S.C. (d)() onrespondent's ineffective assistance of counsel claim fortwo reasons: first, because the State court decisionrejecting the claim correctly identified this Court'sdecision in Strickland v. Washington as the clearlyestablished Federal law governing this case, not UnitedStates v. Cronic as respondent contends; and second,because the State court's application of Strickland to thefacts of respondent's case was not objectivelyunreasonable.Turning to the first point, respondent'sineffective assistance claim from the outset of this casehas asserted two specific errors that his attorneyallegedly committed during the sentencing phase of hiscapital trial: first, counsel's alleged failure to th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC present available mitigating evidence; and second, hiscounsel's decision to waive closing argument. This Court held in Strickland that such claimsare properly analyzed under the two-part actual deficientperformance/actual prejudice test announced in that caseitself. QUESTION: Mr. Moore, I think what happened inthis sentencing proceeding, if I remember correctly, isthat the attorney made some remarks at the beginning ofthe sentencing hearing? MR. MOORE: Yes, Your Honor. He delivered anopening statement, during which he specifically called thejury's attention, as he is permitted to do under TennesseeState law, to guilt phase evidence, mental healthevidence, upon which he was relying in mitigation. Heexplained to the jury its mitigating significance byrelating that evidence specifically to three statutorymitigating factors. In addition, during that opening statement, heemphasized his client's remorse for his role in thecrimes. He emphasized his client's honorable service forhis country. QUESTION: Did he explain that he wouldn't bepresenting any evidence or saying anything more?MR. MOORE: He -- he did not indicate one way or th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC the other in that statement, but he specifically --QUESTION: Now, would you be here -- would youstill be here if he had not said anything at the opening? Then what rule applies? Suppose the defense attorney justtotally remained silent in the sentencing phase. WouldCronic be the test? MR. MOORE: No, Your Honor. QUESTION: No?MR. MOORE: It is our -- it is our position thatif the claim focuses on counsel's conduct during the trialand it is not alleged that any errors or omissions he madewere the result of State interference or so-calledsurrounding circumstances, then such a claim is properlyanalyzed under Strickland's two-part test.QUESTION: The attorney here did successfullyobject to the presentation of some evidence during thesentencing phase, didn't he? MR. MOORE: Yes, indeed, Your Honor, he did. Hevigorously objected and -- to the admission of some verygruesome crime scene photographs that the prosecutionsought to introduce to establish the heinous, atrocious,and cruel aggravating circumstance, and he succeeded inexcluding that testimony. In addition, he -- he objectedto some hearsay evidence. And so, the -- the SixthCircuit's suggestion that counsel simply sat mute at the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC sentencing hearing simply is belied by this record. QUESTION: Just to go back to Justice O'Connor'squestion, suppose the attorney says nothing and latersays, you know, I was just -- I don't know -- stressedout, traumatized. I -- I really blanked out during thatproceeding. No Cronic there? And -- and do you say Cronic doesn't applybecause he did participate in the earlier phase of thecase and you don't want us to bifurcate guilt phase andsentencing? Was -- was that the basis of your answer? MR. MOORE: No, Your Honor. QUESTION: It's a two-part question.MR. MOORE: No, Your Honor. Our position isthat if the ineffective assistance claim asserts that thelawyer, for whatever reason, failed to do something or didsomething in error, that -- those kinds of claims areproperly analyzed under Strickland, and we think that's afair reading of Strickland. Strickland itself saysconflict of interest claims aside, actual ineffectivenessclaims alleging a deficiency in attorney performance aresubject to the general requirement that the defendantaffirmatively prove prejudice. QUESTION: When does Cronic apply? MR. MOORE: Cronic in our view is properly readto apply only when surrounding circumstances or State th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC interference renders it unlikely that any lawyer couldhave rendered effective assistance of counsel. Of course,Cronic itself --QUESTION: Well, in my -- in my hypothetical, hesaid I just blanked out for a minute.MR. MOORE: But that circumstance is thelawyer's own problem. For our -- for analytical purposesin our view, it shouldn't matter whether counsel'sfailure, for example, to make a critical objection or todo something he should have done was the result of hisbeing asleep or his working a crossword puzzle or hisignorance of the law. What ought to matter is whether hisconduct, what he did or failed to do, violated prevailingprofessional norms. If -- if it did, that's deficientperformance, and then the Court under Strickland examinesthe record to ascertain whether that error --QUESTION: Do we take it as a given in this casethat the attorney did provide -- that there wasineffective assistance at sentencing? Do we take that asa -- a given?MR. MOORE: No, Your Honor. No, Your Honor. Our petition challenges the correctness of the court of --of appeals decision under section (d)(), and thatinvolves our argument that the State court's applicationof Strickland to the facts of this case was not th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC unreasonable. The actual ineffectiveness claims Mr. Hutton'sclient raises are twofold. He complains that availablemitigating evidence was not presented, but the recordsimply does not support that claim. Counsel was under noobligation to reintroduce the mental health evidence thathad been introduced during the guilt phase becauseTennessee State law specifically allows counsel to rely onguilt phase evidence. As I earlier indicated, counselspecifically explained the mitigating significance of thatevidence to the jury during his opening statement andrelated it to three specific statutory mitigatingcircumstances. QUESTION: This is not the first time in one ofthese cases I've been surprised at how skimpy thepresentation is at -- by the defense counsel onsentencing. Maybe there's some dynamic in the courtroom: the jury knows how important it is; he doesn't want todestroy a -- a certain intensity that they're bringing totheir case. But on the cold record, it certainly seemsskimpy.MR. MOORE: Well --QUESTION: I'm tempted to ask you if this isusual, but that -- that's probably not a fair question asthere are so many differences in so many cases. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. MOORE: That's correct, Your Honor. Respondent's complaint that counsel --QUESTION: Mr. -- Mr. Moore, may I ask you? Onthat -- on that branch of it, it seems to me that therewas, the prosecutor's presentation to the jury was about amatch for the defense attorney's. Neither one -- both ofthem were skimpy. MR. MOORE: Yes, Your Honor. And that is --that point is critical to our assertion that counsel'sdecision to waive closing argument was not deficientperformance.QUESTION: But I had another question that Iwanted to ask you, and that was you presented twoquestions. One is that the Sixth Circuit never shouldhave reached the merits, and two, on the merits they werewrong.MR. MOORE: Yes, Your Honor. QUESTION: As a matter -- and the Sixth Circuitproceeded just the other way. It decided the merits firstand then it -- it said it was clearly established. Areyou asking this Court or don't you care what -- what orderwe take these up in, or do you have a preference?MR. MOORE: Well, it's our -- it's our position,Your Honor, that it is not the function of this Courtunder (d) to reach -- to actually address the merits th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC as if it were deciding this claim de novo. The onlyquestion to be resolved here is whether the State court'srejection of the claim was either contrary to or involvedan unreasonable application of clearly established law. We would suggest that the Williams v. Tayloropinion provides the blueprint for the decision here. Thefirst question is did the State court correctly identifythe governing legal principle.QUESTION: Don't you think it would be a littlecoy for us to decide, well, it wasn't an unreasonableapplication of -- of Federal law when we, in fact, knowthat -- or believe that it was a correct application ofFederal law? Do you insist that we simply say -- and gono further than to say, oh, it was -- it was not anunreasonable application? MR. MOORE: I certainly would not begrudge theCourt's agreeing that the State court had indeed correctlyapplied Strickland. But it -- it is my assertion thatunder the language of the statute contemplates thatthe Federal court -- court approach the case by looking atthe bottom line decision of the State court andascertaining whether it is reasonable. QUESTION: Indeed, if we could go no furtherthan -- than the coy statement that it was not anunreasonable application, I suppose you shouldn't have had th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC two questions. You should have just had one.MR. MOORE: That's correct, Your Honor. I thinkthat's right. On the decision to waive closing argument --QUESTION: Mr. Moore, let -- let me interruptyou. How -- how -- does the record show how long thepenalty phase of the trial took? MR. MOORE: Yes, Your Honor. The recordreflects that opening statements started at approximately: p.m. and that the jury retired to deliberate atabout : p.m., and there was about an hour-and-ten-minute break for lunch in there. And they announced theirverdict somewhere along about a quarter of four.QUESTION: Thank you. MR. MOORE: And so, indeed, counsel could havereasonably believed that all of the points he had madeduring his opening statement, his plea for mercy, hisemphasis on his client's remorse, and the mitigatingsignificance of the guilt phase evidence, were fresh inthe jury's mind when the jury retired to deliberatebecause that --QUESTION: What did he -- what did he say aboutthe Bronze Star?MR. MOORE: During his opening statement, he didnot specifically mention the Bronze Star because that th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC evidence was not elicited until his cross-examination ofone of the witnesses during the sentencing phase. He did,however, emphasize during his opening statement hisclient's service in Vietnam and the toll that service hadtaken on his client and his mental health status.QUESTION: So, your answer is he didn't mentionit in his argument. MR. MOORE: He did not mention the Bronze Star.Now, counsel's complaint that the Bronze Starhad some mitigating significance beyond the fact of itsaward is simply not supported by the record. No evidencewas presented to the State post-conviction court that theBronze Star, other than the fact of its award and the factthat of -- that it indicated Mr. Cone had been decorated-- no evidence elaborating on that was ever presented tothe State courts. Similarly, no evidence concerning Mr. Cone'sfamily background, social history, military record,educational record, none of the evidence that Mr. Huttoncomplains was not presented during the sentencing phasewas ever presented to the State courts during the post-conviction hearing. Accordingly, under this Court's decision inBurger v. Kemp, we say that the State courts reasonablyconcluded that there was no deficient performance in -- in th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC that regard in this case because no record was ever madein the State court concerning what the allegedly availablemitigating evidence might have been. No testimony wasintroduced indicating what these witnesses who allegedlyhad knowledge concerning these matters would have said hadthey been called at the sentencing. QUESTION: But am I right that such evidence wasintroduced in the Federal court?MR. MOORE: No, Your Honor. This case wasresolved on summary judgment, and so none of -- none ofthat evidence --QUESTION: Were allegations that such evidencewas available made in the Federal proceeding? MR. MOORE: The allegation that it was availablewas made in the Federal proceeding, but there was noevidentiary --QUESTION: And was that allegation denied?MR. MOORE: Yes.QUESTION: Yes. MR. MOORE: Well, I don't know that it wasdenied. Our -- our point in the Federal court was that nomitigating evidence was presented to the State court, andso therefore --QUESTION: But if we're not deciding the case onthe basis of what that evidence would prove or disprove, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC but rather on whether counsel was deficient in failing tointroduce it, should we not assume the evidence exists?MR. MOORE: No, Your Honor. QUESTION: We should not? MR. MOORE: No, Your Honor. If -- if --QUESTION: Why not? MR. MOORE: Because the burden rests with thepetitioner, the habeas petitioner, to demonstrate itsexistence. If -- if the State court -- if it was neverpresented to the State court, there is no basis forassuming it exists.QUESTION: What -- what was the -- what was thecase you just cited to us for that proposition?MR. MOORE: Burger v. Kemp. In that case, YourHonor, just as here, the complaint was that counsel wasdeficient for failing to put on any mitigating evidence,and in a couple of particulars, this Court noted thatcounsel had failed to make a record in the State courtsconcerning whether the -- the allegedly omitted evidencewould have had any substantial mitigating impact. And inthat circumstance, this Court said that it could not finddeficient performance, let alone prejudice.QUESTION: Mr. Moore, are you done with thatpoint?MR. MOORE: Yes, sir. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: It isn't stated in your brief, but Iassume that it's -- it's the Tennessee rule that if -- ifthe defense doesn't make a closing -- a closing statement,the prosecution doesn't either. Is that it?MR. MOORE: That's right, and that was the --the State court found, based on the evidence --QUESTION: Right. MR. MOORE: -- presented to it during the post-conviction hearing that counsel made a tactical decisionto waive in -- in order to prevent the senior prosecutorfrom delivering what he --QUESTION: The fearsome Mr. Strother. Could --could we get him to argue a case up here? (Laughter.)MR. MOORE: I am not -- I am not acquainted withGeneral Strother, so I'm not sure, Your Honor. QUESTION: But I gather that this isn't the onlyoccasion on which defense counsel have eschewed the makingof closing argument for fear that Mr. Strother would beenabled to unleash his -- his weaponry. (Laughter.) MR. MOORE: That's correct, Your Honor. Infact, one of respondent's own experts at the State post-conviction hearing stated that he had waived closingargument as a defense counsel for precisely the same th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC reason, to -- to prevent Mr. Strother from delivering whatwas typically a killing rebuttal argument. And hepronounced that this was a -- clearly a viable trialtactic. In -- in addition, both he and another expertwere asked point blank whether waiver of closing in -- inthese circumstances with these advocates amounted toessentially a -- a breach of prevailing professionalnorms. And both refused to say whether it would orwouldn't. Indeed, we think that that testimony isabsolutely critical, because surely if the only witnesseswho are actually qualified as experts and competent totestify whether a particular decision of counsel breachedprevailing -- prevailing professional norms are unwillingto state that they -- that there has been a breach, surelya State court does not act unreasonably in concluding thatthe defendant has failed to overcome Strickland's strongpresumption that all significant decisions of counsel aremade in -- in the exercise of reasonable professionaljudgment. QUESTION: Can we go back to the Bronze Star? It certainly did come out in the sentencing phase. Howdid it? MR. MOORE: Yes, Your Honor. During the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC testimony of the criminal court clerk, who had been calledby the State merely to establish the prior violentfelonies, respondent's three convictions for armed robberyin Oklahoma, during that -- during Mr. Dice's crossexamination, defense counsel's cross examination, of thecriminal court clerk, he had the criminal court clerk readfrom, I believe it was, Mr. Cone's sentencing records orprison records from -- prison classification records fromOklahoma, the fact that Mr. Cone had been awarded a BronzeStar in Vietnam. That's how that evidence came intobeing. Indeed, it was the result of cross examination bydefense counsel during the sentencing phase of this trial.QUESTION: Do we have any evidence to indicatewhether Mr. Dice would have put on evidence showing theBronze Star if he had not been able to bring it out incross examination? MR. MOORE: The record simply doesn't reflectwhether or not that would have been the case. Mr. Dicetestified that he viewed that as an opening that he hadand that he -- he was actually quite pleased with himself,if Your Honor will read his testimony about his ability toget that accomplished without presenting direct evidenceon it. QUESTION: Do you think he was entitled to bepleased with himself for the way he got that in the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC record?MR. MOORE: Your Honor, I --QUESTION: Is that the way you would have doneit if you had been the lawyer? MR. MOORE: I'm not certain that -- that hearsayevidence in a prison record is the best evidence of thatfact. We don't really know anything about the Bronze Starother than it is mentioned in this prison record. Wedon't know if there is a --QUESTION: And that's all the jury found outabout it, too.MR. MOORE: That's correct, Your Honor. QUESTION: And we know nothing more about itnow? Nothing came out in the Tennessee proceedings --MR. MOORE: No, Your Honor, and -- and --QUESTION: -- about the circumstances? MR. MOORE: -- respondent introduced no evidencebefore the State courts concerning why the -- the BronzeStar was awarded, anything about the circumstances of itsaward. QUESTION: Was it -- were there any problems inhis service record? He served in Germany and Vietnam.MR. MOORE: Not insofar as this record reflects,Your Honor, no.QUESTION: And did the lawyer put in any th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC evidence about his -- what kind of a person he was beforehe went to Vietnam?MR. MOORE: During sentencing? No. There wasno evidence concerning his background or character at all,but we don't know what such evidence would have been,because none was presented to the State court during thepost-conviction proceeding. QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. Moore. MR. MOORE: Thank you, Your Honor. QUESTION: Ms. Blatt, we'll hear from you.ORAL ARGUMENT OF LISA S. BLATTON BEHALF OF THE UNITED STATES,AS AMICUS CURIAE, SUPPORTING THE PETITIONERMS. BLATT: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice, andmay it please the Court:The United States has addressed the secondquestion presented, which is whether a defendant must showprejudice to establish a claim of ineffective assistance.Strickland holds that to establish such a claim,counsel's performance must be both deficient andprejudicial. Respondent's claims fall within Stricklandbecause he alleges that counsel was deficient in failingto present mitigating evidence --QUESTION: Well, do you want us to assume thenthat the performance was deficient and then address the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC prejudice prong? MS. BLATT: No. I think the -- when the Courtaddresses the section , the threshold question, if theCourt uses Williams v. Taylor as a road map, is whetherStrickland is the clearly established law. And it is theclearly established law because this claim is anineffective assistance of counsel claim. Now, if the Court determines that Strickland isthe correct decision and that the State court correctlyidentified that decision, then the remaining question iswhether the State courts unreasonably applied Stricklandon the facts of this case. QUESTION: So, you don't get to question atall, then. MS. BLATT: You get to -- you can -- you get toquestion if, in determining that Strickland and notCronic is the clearly established law, this Court holdsthat Cronic does not apply when the claim is an actualineffective assistance claim. And that is becauseStrickland squarely governs claims alleging deficienciesin attorney performance and that's -- that's what thiscase is. Cronic did make an observation that prejudicemay be presumed when counsel entirely fails to subject theprosecution's case to meaningful adversarial testing. But th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC that's not this case. Counsel put on a meaningful casefor life and he did it in his opening statement. He hadalready introduced the substantial mitigation evidenceduring the sentencing proceeding and the State courtprocedures expressly allowed the jury to consider thatevidence in its sentencing deliberations in determiningwhether to impose the death sentence. Now, to take a claim of ineffective assistanceand just to presume prejudice under Cronic would beinconsistent with what the Court said in Strickland, andthat is, absent a showing of prejudice, it cannot be saidthat a verdict of a death sentence resulted from anadversarial breakdown that renders the death sentenceunreliable. The Court also said --QUESTION: What -- what if the defense counselpresented nothing at all at the sentencing phase, do youthink that there is potential for application of Cronic inthose circumstances? MS. BLATT: Yes, Justice O'Connor. We thinkCronic is --QUESTION: So, you differ from Mr. Moore in thatregard. MS. BLATT: We do but our difference is verynarrow. We think Cronic refers to an extreme situation th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC where counsel provides absolutely no assistance at trialand, in effect, the defendant has been denied theassistance of counsel under Gideon v. Wainwright becauseessentially the defendant lacked counsel. And that's avery rare situation and exceedingly narrow. QUESTION: Why divide trial into, you know, theone phase and then the -- the mitigation phase? It's allpart of the same trial. Couldn't you likewise divide itinto the -- the direct examination phase and the crossexamination phase and say that he totally failed to do hisjob in the cross examination phase? I mean, you -- youknow, you can cut up a -- a trial into as many littlepieces as you want --MS. BLATT: Right, and --QUESTION: -- and say counsel utterly failed to-- to litigate this particular piece. MS. BLATT: We couldn't agree with you more. Todo that would just swallow the rule in Strickland andwould be inconsistent with the idea that counsel couldreasonably omit to cross examine a witness or fail toproduce evidence.QUESTION: What justification do you have for --for separating out the mitigation phase from the other,especially when some of the evidence that went tomitigation was presented during -- during the direct th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC phase?MS. BLATT: Right. And -- and the prosecutionmay have a reasonable argument in many cases that counseldid not entirely fail to provide assistance. We justdon't take issue with the idea that when Cronic spoke of asituation of counsel entirely failing to -- to provideassistance, that the presumption of prejudice would beassumed. But I think in -- in many cases, we're talkingabout the entire trial. QUESTION: But you're giving up the principle. Once you -- once you allow that you can split it into the-- into the guilt phase and the mitigation phase, it canbe split other ways as well, I assume.MS. BLATT: We don't think so, and --QUESTION: I mean, why wouldn't it just behere's a counsel who litigated the case properly but hemade -- he made a mistake in -- in his litigation? Hedidn't put on any evidence in the -- in the mitigationphase. You don't want to do it that way. You want tosay, no, we can look at -- look at this trial as reallytwo separate trials, and because he did nothing in the --in the mitigation phase, it is not a situation of -- ofinadequate counsel, it's a -- it's a situation of nocounsel. I -- once you've given up that principle, Idon't know why we don't split it up other ways as well. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MS. BLATT: We don't think so. In this case, itwould -- it -- it reasonably could fall on the Stricklandside if there's a State procedure that allows a jury toconsider mitigation evidence, but if there is an entirefailure to do anything throughout the entire trial, it isexceedingly unlikely that that could be the result ofany --QUESTION: Well, when -- when you say the entiretrial, are you talking about the penalty phase or thewhole -- the whole trial? MS. BLATT: We would be talking about a penaltyphase although I agree with Justice Scalia that in theunique situation of this case, where there's an expressprocedure that allows the jury to consider the mitigationevidence, it's critical to look at counsel's performanceduring the -- the guilt phase of the trial. But this is not a -- a case where we thinkthere's reasonable dispute about whether this falls underCronic or Strickland. Counsel --QUESTION: Excuse me. Is -- is that unique? Imean, if -- if -- is it unique that -- you mean in -- inother States, the jury in the mitigation phase is notallowed to consider evidence that -- that came in duringthe penalty phase? MS. BLATT: I don't think that is unique and I'm th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC sorry if I misspoke.QUESTION: I don't think it is.MS. BLATT: I think it's --QUESTION: Which means the two phases arelinked. If -- if it were unique, you -- you might havesome basis for saying the mitigation phase is so separatethat if he doesn't introduce evidence there, he is absent. It's like not having counsel. But that's not myunderstanding of what happens in most States. It's onetrial. MS. BLATT: Right, and if you -- if we're justtalking -- if you take it out of the capital proceeding soyou don't have the split trial, all we're saying is ifthere's an entire failure, we would think that it would beappropriate to presume prejudice. But we won't -- there'sjust not that many cases because counsel usually isproviding some assistance, and the claim is that theassistance that was provided was ineffective for a numberof reasons. And that is this case. The --QUESTION: Why isn't the line -- is it -- youknow, that you can draw a line one place doesn't mean it'ssensible to draw it every place. And they are discretephases, the trial -- and it's not a mitigation stage. It's a sentencing, where aggravating factors come in aswell. Is that not so? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MS. BLATT: That's correct. QUESTION: So, if one can say, yes, I see theseare two parts, it doesn't follow from that that I have tothen separate every examination and every crossexamination. It's a question of where you draw the line.MS. BLATT: Well, I think that's correct, andhowever you draw the line, this case falls on theStrickland side of the line because this is not a casewhere counsel didn't do anything. This is a case where itis just alleged that what -- the two strategic judgmentsthat counsel made were unreasonable.QUESTION: May I ask? Supposing you had a case-- and I know this is not quite it -- in which there isstrong evidence that counsel was mentally disabled andthat that made him less effective throughout the entiresentencing hearing. Would you judge that kind of a caseunder Cronic or Strickland? MS. BLATT: It would be under Strickland. Usually counsel's --QUESTION: Even if there was severe mentalillness on the part of counsel?.MS. BLATT: Is counsel's -- things that would goto impair counsel judgments are generally irrelevantunless they manifest themselves -- manifest themselves inobjectively unreasonable conduct. And so if -- if counsel th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC is performing objectively reasonable, that counsel is nodifferent than someone who makes a mistake because --QUESTION: And you treat the failure to make aclosing statement or the failure to put in any evidencewhatsoever exactly as if he were a fully qualified lawyerin such a case. MS. BLATT: That's right. You'd look at whetherit's objectively reasonable, and that would be whethercounsel is inexperienced or had some substance abuseproblem. Those cases are -- are all governed underStrickland.And continuing why it would be inappropriate to-- to apply Cronic as opposed to Strickland to claims ofattorney errors, I just want to make one last point, andthat is that a test that would sort of say, well, ifcounsel's performance was just not meaningful enough, thatthis would be judicially unmanageable and would lack anyof the policy justifications for presuming prejudice thatthe Court noticed in Strickland, because the Court wouldhave to look at the entire record and determine whethercounsel's performance was deficient enough so as towarrant a presumption of prejudice.QUESTION: Do you agree that under Burger v.Kemp, if the district court in this case had wanted toinquire about the availability of other evidence, it was th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC precluded from doing so because it hadn't been introducedin the State collateral proceedings? MS. BLATT: The district court ruled that that-- that those claims were procedurally barred under anadequate and independent State procedure. Now, if theCourt reverses the Sixth Circuit, I think respondent wouldbe able to argue that those weren't procedurally barred onremand, but those -- those claims were not considered bythe district court or the State court proceedings --QUESTION: So, it's a State procedural bar ruleif the evidence is not adduced at the State collateralproceeding, as opposed to Federal deference? MS. BLATT: It was a procedural --QUESTION: Under Burger? MS. BLATT: In this context, the claims were notmade until subsequent post-conviction State courtproceedings. So, the State courts held that those --those additional grounds for ineffective assistance wereprocedurally barred. QUESTION: So, it was just the failure to adducethe -- to make the claim rather than to elicit theevidence?MS. BLATT: Yes.QUESTION: Thank you, Ms. Blatt.Mr. Hutton, we'll hear from you. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ORAL ARGUMENT OF ROBERT L. HUTTONON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTMR. HUTTON: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court:The main problem in this case is not specificattorney errors. The problem in this case is the failureof John Dice to make a case for life in response to theState's case for death in the penalty phase of a capitaltrial.QUESTION: Well, he did say something initially,did he not, at the sentencing phase? MR. HUTTON: Justice O'Connor, he did but Iwould like to clear up one thing that Mr. Moore stated.QUESTION: Just -- I hope you will address thatbecause if he actually did something but it was somehowinadequate assistance, then perhaps Strickland is thetest.MR. HUTTON: Justice --QUESTION: But if he did absolutely nothing,then we have to wrestle with whether you divide it from,you know, sentencing phase from guilt/innocence phase, andso forth. MR. HUTTON: Justice O'Connor, Mr. Dice did makean opening statement, but in that opening statement, healso told the jury that he had a right to put on evidence th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC at the penalty phase and had a right to make a closingargument in the penalty phase.QUESTION: And it's really bad performance, youcan argue, having -- especially having made thatstatement, not to do it. But that's -- you know, you --you can prove it was bad performance, and if you can provethat it -- that -- that it adversely affected the outcome,then -- then you have a case. But -- but I don't thinkthat it proves that he wasn't there. MR. HUTTON: Justice Scalia, the problem in thiscase and the reason there's a total abdication of advocacyis because after the State made a case for death, afterthe State put on proof of aggravating circumstances andthen argued to the jury that the law required the jury toput Mr. Cone to death, there was silence. Mr. Dice putforth no countervailing proof and made no countervailingargument. QUESTION: Well, he had -- he had askedquestions on cross examination, and it may be that he wassatisfied that the State hadn't shown much.MR. HUTTON: Justice --QUESTION: And he wasn't going to give them anopportunity to have some stem-winder -- and -- and this isnot standard but it is -- it is not an unknown strategy. It used to happen in the -- in the Court of Appeals in the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Ninth Circuit. There'd be an attorney who'd stand up. He'd talk for just two or three minutes and quietly aboutthe law and then he'd sit down. And -- and then he'd take minutes on rebuttal to make this huge jury speech. Andso, what they used to do with him was they'd just submitit on the briefs. And he couldn't say anything at all. It was a very effective strategy for that particularadvocate. MR. HUTTON: Justice Kennedy, the only role ofan advocate in the penalty phase of a capital trial is tomake a case for life. A case for life is made by evidenceand argument. Those are the only two tools that a lawyerhas. For the lawyer, after the State makes a case, to saynothing implies to the jury that I have no good reply forthat.QUESTION: Or it implies to the jury that theState has shown nothing. That's a completely permissibleinference, and counsel does that -- has been known to dothat.QUESTION: We have counsel up here sometimes whosay, I -- I waive rebuttal. I mean, you know, I do nottake that to mean I agree with what our opponent has said. To the contrary, I take it to mean our opponent's -- ouropponent's case -- the additional facts he's -- he'sbrought up are so insignificant that I don't have anything th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC else to say. MR. HUTTON: But Justice Scalia, if a member ofthe Court asked a question of counsel and counsel stoodsilent, the necessary implication of that is I have nogood reply for that question. QUESTION: Mr. Hutton, this was a very shortproceeding. The opening was no shorter than the rathermild presentation by the prosecutor. And one thing thatreally surprised me is -- I'm looking at pages to ofthe appendix. MR. HUTTON: Yes, Your Honor. QUESTION: It shows that Mr. Dice did -- didsomething. And his last statement to the jury -- you saidhe didn't -- didn't ask for mercy. Well, what do you makeof this statement where he said, "And I would say to youthat mercy -- if you consider life under the mitigatingcircumstances, and the aggravating circumstances -- raisesyou above the State, raises you above the king, if youwill. It raises you to the level of God." I thought thatwas a pretty affecting plea for mercy. MR. HUTTON: Well, Your Honor, I would submit weknow that Mr. Dice was suffering from mental illness atthe time he testified. He was declared incompetent topractice law in February by Dr. Hutson, his owndoctor. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: I'm asking you about those words. That sounds like a plea for mercy to me. MR. HUTTON: Your Honor, I think -- I wouldsubmit that that's more of a statement of grandiosity, buteven if it was a plea for mercy, our position is thatafter the opening statements, nothing happened to make acase for life.QUESTION: I'd like you to go into that. I hadexactly the same reaction as Justice Ginsburg. I didn'tunderstand why this isn't a very competent presentation,let alone ineffective. What's ineffective about it? His whole case, which the jury heard the daybefore, was that this man suffered from Vietnam Syndromeand he had four psychiatrists testifying, and by the timeyou finish reading the excerpts of it, he had a point. And his point was that the personality of the defendantchanged totally after he went to Vietnam, which drove himto drugs, which led to this killing, to the point where hewas irresponsible and couldn't be held legally responsiblefor the death. Now, the jury the day before has heard all that. Out of a two-hour presentation on the death penalty part,he -- minutes of it is taken up by him going back overthat. His having reviewed the whole thing, and theprosecution having put on three witnesses, who were th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC irrelevant, because they talked about his criminalbehavior after he returned from Vietnam, leads the defenselawyer to say I'm saying nothing. Well, why should he sayanything? The prosecution just made his case for him. Now, I'm telling you my reaction after readingit, so that I can get your response. MR. HUTTON: Justice Breyer, there -- there aretwo points in response. First of all, in a weighingState, our position is that the failure to make a case for-- for life after the State's case for death, necessarilyimplies resignation to the State's case. QUESTION: In other words, you're saying on thatpart --MR. HUTTON: Yes. QUESTION: -- that when Paul Freund sometimeshas said, a lawyer in this Court who sits down sayingnothing makes not just a good argument, but a perfectargument. Now, we all know that. Right? I'm callingthat to your mind. MR. HUTTON: Okay. QUESTION: My reading this transcript led me tothink maybe it wasn't the perfect response, but it was agood one, because in the introductory statement -- I'llrepeat myself -- he made all these arguments. Theprosecution never refuted one of them, and the witnesses th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC were irrelevant to those. Now, my question to you is, why does he have tocome back and make a statement that he knows will elicitan answer? MR. HUTTON: Number one, Your Honor, it's notjust the failure to make a statement. It's the failure toput -- to make a statement and put on proof. The guiltphase proof was not sufficient for a couple of reasons.The first reason it wasn't sufficient isbecause, number one, the jury -- it was never explained tothe jury that evidence that they had just rejected for aninsanity defense could, nonetheless, be mitigatingevidence.Number two, there was a problem in this recordthat the State post-conviction --QUESTION: Excuse me. Before you go on tonumber two, didn't -- didn't he make that clear to thejury in his -- in his opening statement in the -- in thepenalty phase?MR. HUTTON: No, Your Honor. He never explainedto the jury. What he explained to the jury was therewould be a jury instruction that they could consider anyevidence of aggravating circumstances or mitigatingcircumstances raised by the evidence. It was neverexplained to the jury, though, that evidence that they had th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC rejected for an insanity defense could, nevertheless, beused for mitigating evidence in the penalty phase.QUESTION: And he did not allude to thatevidence?MR. HUTTON: No, Your Honor. He alluded to theevidence, but he did not allude to the fact that theycould consider -- he did not explain to the jury that theycould consider that evidence for mitigating evidence.QUESTION: Well, but surely the jury wouldassume that they could consider it if he referred to it.MR. HUTTON: Your Honor, for a jury who's justrejected an insanity defense -- and this will -- JusticeScalia, this plays into the second point, too. Therewas --QUESTION: What about this statement? He says,the defense has put on proof of those mitigatingcircumstances during its case. Now I'd like to reviewthose for you. And at that point, he goes back over thetestimony that the psychiatrists had given the day before. What's that, but to present to the jury the mitigatingevidence that took place the day before? MR. HUTTON: Justice Breyer, the -- the problemwith that evidence was that the post-conviction court madea finding there was prosecutorial misconduct where theprosecution improperly argued that the jury should not th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC believe the evidence with respect to drug usage. That'son page of the joint appendix. There was a finding that the lawyer for the State inthe closing argument said, Gary Cone is a drug dealer. You can find that because of the evidence of the money inthe car. The State court on post-conviction said theyshould not have argued that because they knew the moneycame from a robbery. But the problem was that even though that didn'traise to a substantive claim for relief, it nonethelesstainted the evidence for mitigation evidence because theprosecution's misstatements led the jury to believe, oh,he was not a drug user, he was a drug dealer. Mr. Dicenever cleared that up in the sentencing phase. QUESTION: All right. Can you go to -- I don'twant you to lose two, though. You were cut off. I askedmy question and I colored the facts against you.MR. HUTTON: Yes. QUESTION: Because I want to elicit from youwhat your response is. And I've got your first, and now Iwant the second. MR. HUTTON: The second response is a temporalresponse, Justice Breyer, that in a weighing State, when ajury is told they have to weigh the evidence for life, alife sentence versus the evidence for death, for the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC lawyer, after the State makes a case for life, to putforth no affirmative proof, and then when the State arguesto the jury why the evidence that just mounted a case fordeath necessitates under the law a sentence of death, tofail to respond with argument as well is an abdication ofadvocacy.QUESTION: Well, you know, I have trouble withthat because I don't think the State put on very much, andif I'm sitting waiting for this closing argument, I knowwhat I'm going to hear. This is a brutal crime spreewhere he shot a police officer, shot a citizen, robbed ajewelry store -- I forget all of the facts. But he goesthrough a high-speed chase. He murders an elderly,helpless couple. That's the kind of thing that I'd beterrified to have the jury hear, and the State is waitingfor closing argument, and he prevents that by sittingdown. That may be a good strategy. MR. HUTTON: Justice Kennedy, the problem iswhen there is no -- there was no strategy, because afterthe opening statements -- it's just like another trialwhere you have opening statements, argument, and closing.After the opening statements, there was nothing that wasput on. He failed to make a case for life when cases forlife could have been made about his being awarded with theBronze Star for heroic combat in Vietnam. Even though th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC there was an elicit -- it was elicited on page of thejoint appendix in cross examination, that there was aBronze Star --QUESTION: But then the prosecutor says, thisman with a Bronze Star killed a helpless, innocent couple. Is this a hero? He avoids all of that.MR. HUTTON: But Justice Kennedy, at least thenthe jury has something to weigh. There's not the problemwith Mr. Dice's silence saying, now that I've heard theState's case, I have no good reply for it. QUESTION: All right. So, what I -- I thinkmaybe some of us are worried about the same thing. Inthis case if Mr. Dice was following the strategy that myquestion suggested, it didn't work, did it? MR. HUTTON: No, Your Honor. QUESTION: No. All right. But there could be a future case in which asimilar strategy would work. So, how can I write anopinion that says to a defense lawyer in a future deathcase, even though your best judgment is to keep quiet atthis moment, nonetheless the Supreme Court of the UnitedStates has said you have to get up and say something, withthe consequence that the jury comes back death? What do Ido about that in your opinion? MR. HUTTON: Justice Breyer, put another way, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC the question the Court is asking is whether or not alawyer can strategically decide to abandon advocacy.QUESTION: All he has abandoned is his closingstatement. He put all the thing in front of the jury inhis opening statement. So, he's abandoning his closingstatement. Now, you want me to say that he cannot abandonthat. MR. HUTTON: No, Justice Breyer. It's the -- acombination of abandoning the closing statement and anycase for life, any affirmative case which leads to therebeing no case for life in response to the State's case fordeath.QUESTION: No, but Mr. Hutton, the problem thatI think we're all having with your argument is -- isillustrated by the -- the colloquy that keeps going on. You're saying that in these circumstances the deficiencywas so clear that it should be treated as a Cronic case,as if the lawyer were not there at all. But the very factthat we're having the discussion that we are shows that itisn't so clear. And -- and the point that I wish you'd address-- and I -- I have to say that I don't know how you canaddress it, but the point that you've got to address if --if you're -- if you're going to prevail here is how can weapply Cronic if we are to apply in -- in any intelligible th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC way, in any way that has a limiting principle to it, ifthe application of Cronic is going to depend onassessments of lawyers' judgments which are as disputableas this assessment? MR. HUTTON: Justice Souter, it's our positionthat, in essence, the lawyer's judgments are irrelevant toa Cronic analysis, that Cronic looks at the structure --QUESTION: Well, that's the whole problem,because if we were analyzing it under Strickland, we wouldhave a different sort of inquiry, and maybe it fits betterhere. Let me ask you this, Mr. Hutton. Suppose wedisagree with you and with the Sixth Circuit that Cronicis the test. We have two questions here: the Williams v.Taylor issue under section , and then thisStrickland/Cronic. Suppose we think that Stricklandprovides the test. That isn't the end of the road foryour client, presumably?MR. HUTTON: No, Justice O'Connor. QUESTION: What would happen then? And howshould we address it with these two questions? Do we dealwith first as a threshold question? MR. HUTTON: Justice O'Connor, if I could takeboth of your questions in the order you presented them.First of all, if this Court determines that th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Strickland applies, the case would have to be remanded tothe Sixth Circuit. We had requested an evidentiaryhearing to develop many of these facts in the districtcourt, which was denied. The Sixth Circuit neveraddressed the issues about the failure to afford a -- anevidentiary hearing and many State procedural defaultissues that were raised that concern a novelinterpretation of State law being raised in Mr. Cone's owncase, and whether there were adequate and independentState grounds.QUESTION: You know, it's -- it puts you in abad position for me to ask you this, but just assume, ifyou would for a minute, that we think Strickland applies. Then what should we do here in the face of these twoquestions, and where does that leave your client? MR. HUTTON: Justice O'Connor, the -- ifStrickland did apply, the (d) question could not beresolved until first the procedural default issues and thefailure to afford an evidentiary hearing questions areresolved by the Sixth Circuit.QUESTION: Why do we not decide the -- theStrickland question here? MR. HUTTON: Chief Justice, there are severalissues that -- that of -- that were not developed in thedistrict court with respect to deficient performance and th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC prejudice. Those facts would have -- would have to bedeveloped before this Court could make a determination ofwhether or not the State court unreasonably appliedclearly established Federal law. QUESTION: What were those --QUESTION: Were these questions dealing with theguilt phase or the penalty phase? MR. HUTTON: Your Honor, these are all questionsthat apply to application of Sixth Amendment, the failureto develop evidence --QUESTION: I -- I asked you a specific question. Were these questions devoted to the penalty phase or theguilt phase? MR. HUTTON: With respect to the penalty phasespecifically, Chief Justice Rehnquist, with respect todeveloping proof as to deficient performance, why thefindings of fact should not be trusted because --QUESTION: Mr. Hutton, didn't the Sixth Circuitreject your claim about the guilt phase?MR. HUTTON: No -- what they rejected, there wasan issue of waiver of certain claims, not the SixthAmendment claims, but other claims that was denied by thedistrict court, and the Sixth Circuit found that thoseissues were waived. With respect to the ineffective assistance th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC claims, the issue has to do with in State court there wasa finding that those claim -- that those aspects of theSixth Amendment claim were previously determined, and in,this case is the first time that the State court held afinding of previous determination can act as a proceduralbar to developing those issues in -- in State court. So,there's a novel issue of State law that --QUESTION: Can you -- can you point to me wherein the Sixth Circuit opinion -- I thought in their opinionthey rejected your claim insofar as the guilt phase. Perhaps I'm wrong. MR. HUTTON: No, Justice Ginsburg. Theyrejected the issue of waiver. They did not address at allin the opinion the claim in the brief with respect to whythe State court finding of previous determination withrespect to aspects of a Sixth Amendment claim raised inthe subsequent State post-conviction petition -- why weargued that that cannot be a bar to reaching the issues onthe merits in Federal court because it was a novel rule. It was a rule announced for the first time in Mr. Cone'sown case. Secondly, there are Michael Williams v. Taylorproblems because there are facts -- when we asked for anevidentiary hearing, we were not afforded an evidentiaryhearing to develop many of these facts with respect to the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Bronze Star. The district court didn't give us a hearing. And we have cause. It wasn't our fault for failing todevelop those in -- in State court. QUESTION: Excuse me. I -- I don't -- I don'treally understand. If the test -- if the criterion is --is going to be whether the -- as the statute says, whetherthe State court was reasonable in what it did, what rightdo you have to introduce new evidence that wasn'tpresented to the State courts?MR. HUTTON: Because --QUESTION: I don't understand why we can't just-- just look at the evidence that was available and -- anddecide the Strickland question then.MR. HUTTON: Justice Scalia, that fits rightinto this court's decision with Michael Williams v.Taylor. (e) allows an evidentiary hearing to be heldin Federal court if it was not the defendant's fault forfailing to develop facts. That provision would make nosense if a Federal court couldn't look at new facts notdeveloped in State court to make a determination under(d) as to whether or not the State court findings werereasonable or unreasonable. In other words, Justice --QUESTION: Do we have any indication here as towhose fault it was? MR. HUTTON: Your Honor, there's several th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC different issues, Justice Souter. First of all, in Statecourt, capital defendants were not allowed experts orinvestigators until , years after Mr. Cone's firstpost-conviction petition. So, there's an issue aboutcause with whether or not he had cause to develop that.Number two, with the aspects of the SixthAmendment claim raised in a second post-convictionpetition, there are issues as to whether the Stateprocedural bar was clearly established, because Mr. Cone'scase was the very first case where there was a holdingthat previous determination acted as a State bar todeveloping facts in State court. All of those issues goto whether or not Mr. Cone has a right under MichaelWilliams v. --QUESTION: What facts is it -- what facts is it-- are they that you sought to develop --MR. HUTTON: Chief --QUESTION: -- as bearing on the ineffectiveassistance claim? MR. HUTTON: Chief Justice, there are severalfacts, starting with the deficient performance aspect. Weknow because we were able to issue a subpoena in Federalcourt to get John Dice's medical records. He committedsuicide after the post-conviction hearing. His ownrecords show at the time that he testified in post- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC conviction, he was suffering from impaired memory,confused thinking, and had been incompetent to practicelaw. QUESTION: well, why -- how does that bear onwhether or not the State court's finding of -- against youon the Strickland claim was unreasonable? MR. HUTTON: Because, Chief Justice, many of thefindings by the State court relied on the testimony ofJohn Dice, and just like under the old Townsend v. Sain --QUESTION: Well, Townsend against Sain is prettywell gone. MR. HUTTON: No, Your Honor, but it also comesinto Michael Williams v. Taylor, this Court's term --year opinion, where if it's not -- if we didn't failto develop facts in -- in State court that are relevant,we can develop them in Federal court. QUESTION: What is -- what is the particularthing, though, because I mean, you've mentioned threetimes now that he has some mental problem that led him tocommit suicide.MR. HUTTON: Yes. QUESTION: I gather that must have been at leastfour or five years after these events. MR. HUTTON: It was --QUESTION: He testified at the hearing in . th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC The trial was in .MR. HUTTON: That's correct. QUESTION: All right. Now, I've seen many badcases of bad representation in death cases that I think isterrible. But I have to say, having read through thisrecord, this doesn't seem to be one of them. Now, youobviously think it is. So, what is it specifically? What is itspecifically that -- that you think was absolutelyterrible by way of representation here, other than notmaking the closing statement? I've got that one. Iunderstand that. You've made a major point of that. Butwhat are the things that really went wrong in this case?MR. HUTTON: Justice Breyer, with respect toyour first question, we're raising the fact that hecommitted suicide after the post-conviction testimony sothat -- that raises --QUESTION: That does not suggest that four orfive years earlier -- it might suggest a cause of badrepresentation, but it doesn't suggest there was the badrepresentation. And my question is what did he do wrong? I'm not an experienced trial lawyer. That's why I putthese questions to you. I expect my objections will beoverwhelmed by you, but I want you to -- to focus you ondoing it. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. HUTTON: Justice Breyer, he failed to make acase for life. In the penalty phase of a capital trial,it's like a totally new trial, and a lawyer has one goal. It's to mount a case for life, for the jury to have somereason not to sentence his client to death. QUESTION: Mr. Hutton, may I interrupt you withthis? And I -- because I think we're all trying to get atthe same thing. When you get beyond that generality, whatwas it that he should have put in that he didn't put in? And my understanding was that there were three items thatyou thought would be favorable. One was the Bronze Star. One was the fact that this man's brother died when he wasyoung, and the third was that this man's girlfriend wasmurdered. Am I -- am I right that those are the threepoints upon which you thought he was deficient in -- thelawyer, Dice, was deficient in failing to presentevidence?MR. HUTTON: With -- Justice Souter, there aremany cases for life that could have been made. It is truethat he failed to develop the Bronze Star and failed todevelop that Mr. Cone was a hero, that that is an awardfor heroism in combat. That was never presented to thejury as a case for life. Number --QUESTION: Was there nothing in the military th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC record that the lawyer might have been fearful about if hepursued that beyond where he did?MR. HUTTON: No, Justice Ginsburg. And thatalso reminds me I'd like to clarify something. There istestimony in the post-conviction record at page of thepost-conviction testimony -- it's not in the jointappendix, unfortunately. But John Dice did testify thathe would have given his right arm for a Bronze Star, thatthat was an award for combat in military service. QUESTION: May I just -- I've looked back at theopinion, and twice the Sixth Circuit says that they denythe -- they affirm the dismissal. They affirm thedismissal with respect to the conviction. We now affirmthe denial of this petition with respect to the offense of-- of conviction. And if you missed it there, then on thevery last page of this opinion, they say again, we affirmthe district court's refusal to issue a writ of habeascorpus with respect to the petitioner's conviction. Andyou didn't cross appeal from that. MR. HUTTON: No, Your Honor. The -- the issues-- the issue is whether or not counsel was ineffective forthe sentencing phase. We did not -- the -- we --QUESTION: I thought you -- you told me when Iasked you, no, the Sixth Circuit didn't affirm withrespect to the sentence of conviction. I take from what I th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC just read to you that they did, and that's a closed door,and the only thing that's up now is the sentencing phase.MR. HUTTON: Oh, I'm sorry, Justice Ginsburg. Imust have misunderstood your question. The -- theconviction of guilt was affirmed by the Sixth Circuit andwe did not file a cross petition.QUESTION: Yes. MR. HUTTON: Okay. The -- so, the issues whichwe are raising have to do with why Mr. Dice wasineffective to the point that it amounted to a totalabdication of advocacy in the penalty phase of thecapital --QUESTION: Mr. --QUESTION: Is the first --QUESTION: Can I ask you one question followingup on Justice Souter? He listed three things. He saidthat you argue he failed to put in. But I thought themost significant material that was omitted was the storyof what kind of a person this man was before he went toVietnam, which the lawyer said he had investigated anddescribed in detail at page of the joint appendix. Now, did he explain why he didn't put all that evidencein?MR. HUTTON: No. Your Honor, there were somereferences by Mr. Dice's testimony that he thought that th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC the mother, Valeree Cone, did not make a good witness andthat generally the family members he thought did not makea good witness. QUESTION: Did that come during the -- had thatcome in during the guilt stage?MR. HUTTON: Your Honor, he -- when he tried tointroduce evidence in the guilt phase, there wereobjections as to relevancy which were sustained by thecourt, because the court found that all that was relevantin the guilt phase was the issue of mental insanity. So,all the background to -- was not relevant in thatparticular --QUESTION: Did the mother testify --QUESTION: Mr. Hutton, you -- you think we haveto send -- this conviction and sentence occurred in . I am trying to think, you know, what I was like in . It's years ago, and you think it has to go back forfurther fact finding, presumably back to the court ofappeals and then back to the district court?MR. HUTTON: Your Honor, first of all, this casewas filed --QUESTION: How -- how old is -- is Mr. Cone?MR. HUTTON: Mr. Cone was in , so thatwould make him --QUESTION: Yes. Well, he may get a -- a life th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC sentence by default. MR. HUTTON: Justice Scalia, the -- the fact ofthe matter is, though, that Mr. Cone has been trying todevelop these claims.QUESTION: No, but when you go back to that,what is it that you -- that you say should have gone on inas evidence at the sentencing phase that didn't? TheBronze Star. Justice Stevens mentioned the change inpersonality. Is that something that you say should havegone in? MR. HUTTON: Your Honor, that should have gonein. The fact about the Bronze Star and being developedwhat happened in the war should have gone in. There areclaims about Mr. Dice's --QUESTION: What -- what about the other two thatI mentioned, the -- the death of the sister and the murderof -- of the -- the girlfriend? Should those things havegone in? portray --MR. HUTTON: Yes, Your Honor, because they wouldQUESTION: Okay. I'm pushing you because yourtime is running out. What else? Is there anything else?MR. HUTTON: Your Honor, those should have gonein, but more importantly, those should have been woveninto an argument as to why that reasoned moral judgment -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC a reasoned moral judgment called for this man not to beput to death. And the fact of the matter is thecombination -- we can't piecemeal the no evidence and noargument. It's the combined force of both of them. Thefailure to do anything in response to the State's case fordeath is what makes this a total abdication of advocacy inthe context of a penalty phase of a capital trial.So, Your Honors, in preparing for this argument,I read an article that one of Your Honors wrote severalyears ago about how important oral argument was beforethis Court and how in many cases this Court -- argumenthad affected the minds of members of this Court. And iforal argument is so important for members of this Courtwho have the benefits of briefs, training, legal training,the benefits of clerks, how much more important isargument for a jury that's not trained in the law, thatdoesn't have the benefits of briefs, that has to make themost difficult decision they ever made as to whethersomebody should live or should die? And how much moredevastating is it when the jury is told they have to weighevidence, they hear a case for death, they hear theprosecutor argue a case for death, and then there'ssilence from the defense? Your Honor, that amounts to a total failure inthe penalty phase to -- to subject the prosecution's case th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC to meaningful adversarial testing. That's why this Courtwrote Cronic, to talk about problems just like this case. And Cronic has been sparingly applied by the lower courts.CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: Thank you. Thank you,Mr. Hutton. The case is submitted.(Whereupon, at : a.m., the case in theabove-entitled matter was submitted.) th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC 