 IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XBE&K CONSTRUCTION COMPANY, Petitioner :: v. : No. - NATIONAL LABOR RELATIONS BOARD, ET AL. : : - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XWashington, D.C.Tuesday, April , The above-entitled matter came on for oralargument before the Supreme Court of the United States at: a.m.APPEARANCES:MAURICE BASKIN, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf of thePetitioner.LAWRENCE G. WALLACE, ESQ., Deputy Solicitor General,Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on behalfof the Respondents. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC C O N T E N T SORAL ARGUMENT OF MAURICE BASKIN, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioner LAWRENCE G. WALLACE, ESQ.On behalf of the Respondents REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OFMAURICE BASKIN, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioner PAGE th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC P R O C E D I N G S(: a.m.)CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: We'll hear argumentnext in No. -, the BE&K Construction Company v. theNational Labor Relations Board. Mr. Baskin.ORAL ARGUMENT OF MAURICE BASKINON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERMR. BASKIN: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court:This case presents an important question arisingunder the Petition Clause of the First Amendment. Petitioner BE&K Construction is asking the Court to holdthat the First Amendment protects objectively basedlawsuits from being declared unlawful by the NationalLabor Relations Board. Now, the Court has already held that the FirstAmendment does protect lawsuits from statutory sanctionunder both the NLRA and the antitrust laws so long as thesuits are meritorious, meaning that they are notobjectively baseless. In the Bill Johnson's case, theCourt said -- and I quote -- it is not unlawful to pursuea meritorious lawsuit under the National Labor RelationsAct. In fact, the Court said it twice and specificallycited the Noerr-Pennington doctrine of the antitrust law. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Then it --QUESTION: How do you describe the test appliedby the board?MR. BASKIN: Well, the test by the board is onewhich says that the employer must be -- must prevail, mustbe percent prevailing in the lawsuit. As a standardthat's impossible for any employer to anticipate inadvance. No -- no employer can ever be percent sureof prevailing. QUESTION: Should there be any other component? I mean, I think your client lost basically. So --MR. BASKIN: Well, the question is what was --QUESTION: What else should be part of the test?MR. BASKIN: The test is what is the -- wasthere an objective basis for the litigation. It's not awin-or-lose test, as the Court said in Professional RealEstate -- and I'll quote again -- it's got to beobjectively baseless in the sense that no reasonablelitigant could realistically expect success on the merits.QUESTION: Well, should the test fromProfessional Real Estate automatically be carried over tothe Labor Relations Act?MR. BASKIN: Well, in this case, Your Honor, ananswer is yes because the Court itself has interacted withthe -- both of the acts. They cross reference with each th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC other. Bill Johnson's referred directly to the CaliforniaMotor Transport. Professional Real Estate referred toBill Johnson's as if it's one consistent whole. And itis.QUESTION: Well, but I -- I wonder if -- if theNational Labor Relations Board doesn't have somediscretion to say that the labor situation is somewhatdifferent, as they apparently do, from the antitrustsituation. MR. BASKIN: Well, but the irony here is thatthe NLRB has not -- has not interpreted its own statute. It's not being deferred to here. The NLRB is interpretingthis Court's decision in Bill Johnson's.QUESTION: Which happened to say precisely whatthe NLRB said it said. MR. BASKIN: Well, no, Your Honor. In Bill --QUESTION: If a judgment goes against theemployer in the State court, if it goes against him, thenhe's had his day in court. And then the board may proceedto adjudicate the unfair practice claim, and then theemployer's suit, having been proved unmeritorious, theboard can take that fact into account when it decides thelabor law violation.MR. BASKIN: Three --QUESTION: And you've been reading three cases th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC to us, so that seems to be the language that you have. I-- I read that as saying you lose. Period. End of thematter. That's what the board decides. Now, I put that so you'll reply to it.MR. BASKIN: Yes. Three things in the phrasingthat you just said. First, the Court said the board mayproceed, did not say it's an automatic result. Said mayadjudicate the unfair labor practice, did not say it's anautomatic result. And then key phrase, having proved to beunmeritorious, what does unmeritorious mean? Well, thisCourt has consistently said what unmeritorious means. Itsaid so before Bill Johnson's in the Christiansburg case.QUESTION: Mr. Baskin, back up a bit. MR. BASKIN: Yes. QUESTION: The -- the Court in that veryparagraph gave a definition of what it meant. So, Iwouldn't look outside this document for what the Courtmeant by with merit/without merit when the -- look at thesentence in the middle of that paragraph. It says if thejudgment goes against the employer and the State court.MR. BASKIN: Yes. QUESTION: Judgment against you. Or if his suitis withdrawn or is otherwise shown to be without merit. Otherwise shown to be merit. I took that to mean if you th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC lose, it's shown to be without merit. There may be othersituations in which it's shown to be without merit. So,it seems to me the best place to find out what the Courtmeant merit/without merit is the very opinion that we'reconstruing. MR. BASKIN: Yes, and if it were the holding ofthe opinion, it would have greater weight. But this isnot the holding that we're talking -- that we're parsingout here. This is dicta because the essential --QUESTION: Well, there are two responses to thedicta point it seems to me. The first one is it wasdicta, but it was dicta that preceded a remand in whichthis issue in fact would be explored. And the secondresponse is the -- as I understand it, the board itselfhas followed the -- the dicta for -- I forget how manyyears now, but consistently followed it and Congress hasdone nothing about it. So, A, query whether it's dicta,and B, even if it is, isn't it the kind of dicta that atthis point definitely should be followed? MR. BASKIN: It is clearly dicta because theCourt stated what was the issue before it, and the soleissue before it in Bill Johnson's is stated at thebeginning of the opinion, whether the NLRB may issue acease and desist order to halt the prosecution of a Statecourt civil suit brought by an employer to retaliate th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC against employees. And the holding of the case, which analyzes theFirst Amendment at great length, says that the right ofaccess to the courts is too important to be an unfairlabor practice. And it also defines meritorious as beingreasonable basis, language in the Court's opinion. QUESTION: I think there's another element thatyou're ignoring. I thought the board looked both atwhether it was a meritless lawsuit against the unions andwhether it was for a retaliatory purpose.MR. BASKIN: Yes.QUESTION: Isn't that the other element?MR. BASKIN: Yes. Both elements must bepresent.QUESTION: Okay. And how do we defineretaliatory purpose? What -- what constitutes that --MR. BASKIN: Well, it's --QUESTION: -- do you think, in the board's rule?MR. BASKIN: Yes. It's very -- pretty much thesame as the improper motivation purpose test that was inthe Professional Real Estate case, which also has the two-part test. You look at the objective basis first, andthen and only then if there's no objective basis, you lookat whether there was a retaliatory motive. And how that's defined, although the Court did th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC not grant cert on that issue, we contested vigorously the-- the board's finding of retaliatory motivation here --because in fact the board has made it a rubber stamp. It's become automatic if the case relates in any way tounion activity, the board finds that it's retaliatorymotivation. But the first part of the test is an objectiveone that the Court has spelled out both in Bill Johnson'sitself and in Professional Real Estate. And to take any-- to take the board's standard puts employers in animpossible situation. It is unworkable. Going back tothe question of dicta or not, you have ambiguous languageat best because we have several different references tomeritorious throughout the Bill Johnson's opinion. QUESTION: May I just ask this, Mr. Baskin? Doyou think there is a distinction between an ongoing caseand a completed case? MR. BASKIN: It's one mostly as to timing andfacts available to the board, and I think that's what theCourt was --QUESTION: But the -- in your view, the standardis the same. It's not that the board tries to enjoin theproceeding as -- as opposed to later on bringing an unfairlabor practice after it's over.MR. BASKIN: The substantive standard should be th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC the same. QUESTION: It should be, but --MR. BASKIN: Should be.QUESTION: -- do you think that Johnson saysit's the same? MR. BASKIN: We're all here today because thelanguage in the tail end of the Bill Johnson's opinion isambiguous as to what they intended the standard to be.QUESTION: And at least it says there's adifferent standard. MR. BASKIN: As to -- the -- the impact was --QUESTION: And your view is there should be nodifferent standard. MR. BASKIN: Correct.QUESTION: And that's the whole key to the case.MR. BASKIN: That really is the whole key to thecase.QUESTION: And why not? QUESTION: Mr. Baskin, is your -- is yourargument -- in your opening remarks, you -- you referredonly to the First Amendment. Is -- is it -- is it aconstitutional argument you're making? To -- to agreewith you here, do I have to agree that if Congress passeda law adopting the English rule on -- on attorney's fees,that would be unconstitutional? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. BASKIN: No. We are not saying that. Weare not seeking to constitutionally -- we are asking nomore than that you apply this standard to the two statutesyou've already applied it --QUESTION: Which says -- so, it's a statutoryargument. MR. BASKIN: No. It is a constitutional andstatutory argument, which is what the Court itself said inboth of these cases because there's a sanction involved.QUESTION: I don't know what you mean by a -- isit -- does the Constitution prohibit it or not?MR. BASKIN: It prohibits a statute fromprohibiting it. QUESTION: The Constitution prohibits. So, youranswer to my question is --MR. BASKIN: Constitutional and statutory.QUESTION: You -- you cannot -- that Congresscould not adopt the English rule. MR. BASKIN: No. The difference -- here's theimportant difference. QUESTION: It would do that by statute.MR. BASKIN: But is there an -- a declaration ofunlawfulness involved? There are many fee-shiftingstatutes. We're not taking issue with mere fee-shifting,but the National Labor Relations Board is saying that BE&K th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC broke the law, and that's what also happened under theantitrust laws. They're saying -- they're issuing a ceaseand desist order from filing so-called nonmeritoriouslitigation.QUESTION: But the fact that it's triple damagesis a little different than fee-shifting. So, one couldeasily say, when you're exposed to treble damages,putative damages, yes, that's a punishment. Here fee-shifting is the rule in most countries in the world. So, what is the more here? I understand themore in antitrust cases, treble damages. Here you say,well, there's a finding that you have committed an unfairlabor practice. What are the consequences in addition tothat you have to pay the other side's legal fees? Whatare the adverse consequences --MR. BASKIN: First, the most important is thedeclaration that you are a law violator in and of itself. You have to post a notice for your employees not only atthis job site but all across the country. You have your-- your customers become aware of it. The unionscertainly make sure your customers become aware of it. There's the serious danger of debarment either privatelyor by governmental action.QUESTION: Explain that. You did say that inyour brief about debarment, and I didn't -- I can th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC understand when you say someone -- someone's reputation isaffected by being labeled a law violator. But you saidsomething about -- about the jeopardy of debarment and Iwasn't clear how that would work. MR. BASKIN: It's not meant in the legal senseand the Government -- we're not -- we're not talking aboutwhether the Government has to debar the company, but bothprivate actors and many Government contracting officerstake the view they don't want to deal with people who havebeen declared to be law violators. The goodwill andreputation of the company is at stake.QUESTION: Well, in our lower case, the --Wisconsin set out to do that on a State basis, didn't it? If you violated the Labor Act, the State was not going todeal with you.MR. BASKIN: Yes, they did. And then theFederal Government just last -- years ago in theprevious administration, had come through with a set ofrules saying that companies would be debarred if they werefound to have violated labor laws. So, having this -- a declaration of illegalityin place is what makes this different, Justice Scalia,from a random fee-shifting statute, and that's why we arenot asking you to do anything other than what you'vealready done, which is to apply the First Amendment to two th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC statutes which you have determined have great commonalityover the years, as each one keeps referring back to theother in this doctrine. QUESTION: What do you do with the decadesthat have elapsed -- about decades -- since JusticeWhite's opinion which has been interpreted by the boardthe way the language most naturally reads? The one thingis to say when the case first came out it was ambiguous.But now we have decades of consistent interpretation ofthat language by the board.MR. BASKIN: I regret to say it's a tribute tothe speed of the board's processes and the process ofgetting this case up to this level on this issue becausethis case alone has taken years to work its way throughthe board. When the litigation was begun in this case, itwas . The Bill Johnson's case was fresh. There wasconsiderable doubt as exactly -- as to exactly what itmeant. I should note that in the district court opinionsthat are part of the appendix, the unions raised BillJohnson's and said that it -- they were protected underit, citing it interchangeably with Professional RealEstate.QUESTION: They won over half their cases,didn't they? MR. BASKIN: Excuse me? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: Didn't they win -- they won some out of their cases. MR. BASKIN: Depending on how you count, theyjust barely got over percent. QUESTION: Did you ask -- talking about thehistory of the case, could you tell me how did this caseend up in the Sixth Circuit? MR. BASKIN: Well, in fact, by the time thiscase got to the court of appeals, BE&K was no longer doingbusiness in California. The gravamen of its doingbusiness was in the Sixth Circuit. QUESTION: I see. MR. BASKIN: And that's why the decision wasmade --QUESTION: I'd like you to address, if I can goback to the -- what I think was the Chief Justice'squestion. Your -- your basic point, I take it, assumingwith you, as I will, for the moment that the language isambiguous in Bill Johnson, is that we should treat or thestatute should be interpreted as treating the antitruststatute and the labor statute a case brought by adefendant the same way. And obvious differences, which I'd like you toaddress, are that, one, there is a history in the laborlaw of employers using cases brought at law either to th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC break unions or to win disputes. And that was one of thereasons why the NLRA was passed. That had nothing to dowith the antitrust laws. There is no such history.Second, the employer -- the -- the matter iscommitted to an expert board in the labor area, whichapparently believes that the way to enforce the labor law,unlike the antitrust law, is to say the sham exceptionexists before the case is decided, but once the case isdecided, we're going to keep employers out of the courtsby saying if they lose, that's the end of any immunitythat they get. And we will now look to what their motivewas in bringing this lawsuit. We have an expert board. We have a different history. We have different statutes.MR. BASKIN: The --QUESTION: And now, what is your response?MR. BASKIN: The irony is that the Courtconsidered those purported differences in the BillJohnson's case and rejected them.QUESTION: All right. Obviously -- look --MR. BASKIN: No, no. I'm talking about thefirst part. QUESTION: I -- but I'm trying to stay away fromBill Johnson because obviously if you're right that thestatute holds it, I mean, I -- all right. Go ahead. Sorry. I didn't mean to interrupt. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. BASKIN: Well, to me it's -- the interestingthing about this case is the Court has itself consideredthese very questions that you're raising and you haveanswered them, and you do not need to revisit them to --to come out with the conclusion that the NLRB has eithermisinterpreted the standard or that the standard isunworkable. QUESTION: Well, but I -- I have -- I have thesame question that I think underlies Justice Breyer'sconcern. You would seem to give zero weight to theboard's interest in stopping a purely retaliatory suit. The board says, now, you have organized this clerical unitand if -- if you persist in your union activity, we'regoing to sue you for the way you've been keeping ourbooks. We're going to sue you for malpractice, blah,blah, blah, blah. And so long as there's any basis forthe suit, they can do that in your -- or am I misstatingyour view?MR. BASKIN: Well, only in one respect. It hasto have an objective basis. We are not here defendingsham litigation, baseless litigation.QUESTION: Well, I suppose there's always abuseof process if there's -- but if there's some basis, thenyou can use it specifically to retaliate.MR. BASKIN: More than some. It must be th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC reasonable basis. And yes, yes. QUESTION: You can specifically use it toretaliate. MR. BASKIN: The Court -- this Court has saidthat if there is an objective basis, that means it's ameritorious lawsuit. Then there may also be a motivationof retaliation. Weighty, countervailing considerations.QUESTION: But -- but we're talking -- we'retalking in -- in the labor context. MR. BASKIN: Yes. QUESTION: And you lose the suit. So, there's-- you do not -- you're not the prevailing party in thesuit. And you -- you lose on the merits. There's nothingthe board can do about it if you've done it specificallyto retaliate and for no other purpose. MR. BASKIN: If it is a reasonable, meritorioussuit, as this Court has defined it, where the right ofaccess to a court is too important to be called an unfairlabor practice solely on the ground that what is sought inthe court is to enjoin employees from exercising aprotected right because of the First Amendment to theConstitution, the right to petition the courts with ameritorious lawsuit. QUESTION: But the First Amendment argument goesby the boards once the case is over. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. BASKIN: No, Your Honor, because -- for thesame reasons that the Court held in Professional RealEstate. The employer has the right not to be secondguessed with / hindsight as long as it had areasonable basis for the suit. QUESTION: Yes, but that ignores the fact thatwe're not concerned solely with chilling; we're alsoconcerned with retaliation. And if we didn't have theretaliatory character of the lawsuit involved, I wouldthink you would have a much stronger argument as you justmade it. But the retaliation is there and I don't see howwe can accept your -- in effect, your chilling argumentwithout ignoring the retaliatory character. MR. BASKIN: Because the employers are beingchilled and, in effect, the retaliation --QUESTION: Well, they're being chilled in -- inengaging in retaliation for the exercise of statutoryrights.MR. BASKIN: But there's actually lessretaliation that's going to take place once the suit iscompleted. If that were the standard, then the boardshould be instructed to intervene sooner to keep theemployees from having to spend more money to defendthemselves. QUESTION: And the -- the answer to that, it th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC seems to me, is set out in the cases. We've got a --we've got a federalism interest in letting the Statecourts at least adjudicate their cases. So, that's theanswer to that objection. MR. BASKIN: Well, here there's even a morecompelling interest. You have two statutes, Federalstatutes, that the employer was invited to file lawsuitsunder. QUESTION: All right. Let's go back then to the-- to the difference between the two Federal statutes. The premise of Justice Breyer's question a moment agoaccepted the ambiguity. If we are not that indulgent andif we read Bill Johnson's the way Justice Ginsburg read it-- and I will be candid to say I read it -- number one,the ambiguity does not leap out at us. And number two, I'd like to go back to JusticeGinsburg's question. Even if we assume there wasambiguity at the beginning, we have had years of boardpractice which seems to me to have dissipated anyambiguity. What's your response to that?MR. BASKIN: Well, the ambiguity was in theopinion that led the board to take an erroneous view --QUESTION: That's right I believe, and the boardhas made it very clear how the board is reading it, andafter years, we've got a pretty clearly settled body of th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC law, haven't we? MR. BASKIN: Well, a settled body of erroneouslaw. And is that what the Court --QUESTION: And we're interpreting statutes --the -- the settled body is clear and Congress isapparently quite agreeable to it. MR. BASKIN: Well, first, the Court has said youdon't defer -- that -- that you can't read anything intocongressional inaction, particularly when it has takenthis long before the board ruling really was definitive. And it has taken that long. The issue has been in doubtfor most of that -year period. But the -- going beyond that, the -- theboard --QUESTION: I don't understand that. Why do yousay it's been in doubt for most of the -year period?MR. BASKIN: Because it's been in doubt. Caseslike this one have been taking a long time to wind theirway through the process. At each step, the board said,well, we think that it -- there -- it was contested, asthe board said --QUESTION: You mean it has been contestedconstantly during that --MR. BASKIN: Yes. QUESTION: -- -- -year period? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. BASKIN: Absolutely. QUESTION: Has the board ever taken a differentposition in the -year period?MR. BASKIN: There have been dissents, but no,the board has generally taken a consistent view. QUESTION: So, the board's position has beenclear for years.MR. BASKIN: Yes, but the board --QUESTION: The board is slow. It may take the-- the cases may be in wending their way through. MR. BASKIN: But the board is not entitled todeference in its interpretation of the U.S. Constitutionor of this Court's decision. And that's all that we'retalking about here is the board's interpretation of theConstitution and this Court's opinion. It's notinterpreting the statute. QUESTION: I think we're not raising -- I thinkJustice Ginsburg's question and my question is not so muchgeared to an issue of deference. We're -- we're trying to-- to get at the -- what seems to us the fact that the lawhas become settled. It may require no deference. It mayhave become settled because an administrative agency wasinterpreting what you think was an ambiguous opinion ofthis Court in the first place. But it seems to havebecome settled. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC And there is a good reason, which underliesultimately our -- our approach to stare decisis instatutory cases, for letting settled statutoryunderstandings stayed settled unless the legislativebranch wants to change them. And that's the argumentwe're getting at, not deference. MR. BASKIN: Well, it is -- stare decisis is aform of deference, and we're talking about stare decisiswould apply to the Court's own opinion. Only this Courtis required to defer to itself about its own opinion. Your -- and so that's why we are talking about deference,I would submit. At least I interpret your question asasking should you stick with what the board has come upwith. This Court has not ruled on --QUESTION: I'm saying that --MR. BASKIN: -- on Bill Johnson's since BillJohnson's.QUESTION: I'm saying that in -- as -- as yourown answers indicate, for years there seems to havebeen a -- a settled practice on the part of the boardwhich at best is not inconsistent with our opinion. Whyshouldn't we let a settled statutory regime stay settledunless the legislative branch wants to change it? MR. BASKIN: I contest that it's a settledstatutory regime, that we are dealing with a First th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Amendment right, and that the board's outcome, which ithas taken this long to reach back to the court, is wrongunder the First Amendment. It has proved to be unworkableand it subjects employers to the impossible situation infuture cases and in cases going on right now that they areexpected to have percent certainty of the outcome.Indeed, the -- the board could, under thisstandard, say that you can win a jury verdict, go -- haveit upheld by the district court, only to be reversed by anappeals court, and still be found under this Court'sstandard to be nonmeritorious and you lose. You have --you have violated the law. QUESTION: If there's a retaliatory motive. MR. BASKIN: If there's a retaliatory motive. And that's all it takes. There's a retaliatory motive. You go through all of that based on an attack on yourbusinesses, which is why employers tend to file theselawsuits. They don't like lawyers that much, don't wantto spend the money to do it, but they're under attack. BE&K was under attack in every conceivable forum. QUESTION: But, I mean, that's a normal problem,isn't it, with the labor statutes and most other statutes. It forbids retaliatory behavior. Of course, you'll havecases where people make the wrong decision about it, whereit's hard to predict, and so forth. But that's the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC general situation. MR. BASKIN: Well --QUESTION: We're trying to carve out a -- anexception where you're home free from that. MR. BASKIN: Well, no, it's the board that'scarving out an exception from the basic First Amendmentprotection that this Court has recognized already. QUESTION: Mr. Baskin, that -- that goes backevery time to how you construe this paragraph, and so ifthe position that Justice White is making a distinctionhere between, on the one hand, an ongoing proceeding --the First Amendment says you can't stop it. Never minddeference to State courts. That's another considerationthat weighs it to the same end, but traditionally underthe First Amendment, a prior restraint, stop it, has beenwhat the Court has looked at most cautiously. ThenJustice White tells us, but it's different once theadjudication is over. The -- the line between prior restraint andsubsequent punishment goes all the way through FirstAmendment learning, and you treat this as, well,ambiguous, but if it were clear it's that there's anydifference between stopping an ongoing proceeding andlooking at a situation after it's been adjudicated?MR. BASKIN: There -- there can be a difference, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC mainly the difference of having more facts, having anoutcome in front of the board at that point. And what theCourt wanted to get across -- the issue in front of theCourt in Bill Johnson's was don't interfere with anongoing lawsuit. We don't know how it's going to turnout. All right. Once it turns out, if it's withoutmerit -- meritorious -- I'd just invite the Court to lookat each use of the word meritorious in the Bill Johnson'sopinion. You will regrettably find some inconsistenciesnot only internally but with other opinions of this Courtboth before Bill Johnson's and after. You have theopportunity to clarify the law now in a way that is verystraightforward under the Professional Real EstateInvestors test. If there are no other questions, I'd like toreserve the remainder of my time for rebuttal. QUESTION: Very well, Mr. Baskin.Mr. Wallace, we'll hear from you.ORAL ARGUMENT OF LAWRENCE G. WALLACEON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTSMR. WALLACE: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice, andmay it please the Court:The board and the courts of appeals have had nodifficulty in reading Bill Johnson's the way I think most th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC people would read this Court's opinion as comprehensivelyaddressing what the board was doing with respect to theunfair labor practice under section (a)() of the filingof --QUESTION: Mr. Wallace. MR. WALLACE: -- retaliatory lawsuits.QUESTION: Mr. Wallace, when I ask you aquestion, please stop.MR. WALLACE: I didn't hear you. I'm sorry.QUESTION: Well, listen a little more closely.Do you disagree with Mr. Baskin's contentionthat the word meritorious is used inconsistently in thepart of Bill Johnson's that we're talking about?MR. WALLACE: I do disagree with that, and --and no court of appeals that has reviewed board decisionssince Bill Johnson's has read it that way. The Courtquite clearly distinguished between enjoining ongoinglawsuits, which it said could be done only if the lawsuitwas baseless. Otherwise, the board has to wait until thelawsuit has been resolved. If the lawsuit turned outfavorably to the employer, then it could not be an unfairlabor practice. But if the lawsuit turned out to beunmeritorious, if the employer lost, then the board couldconsider whether it was filed for a retaliatory purpose.QUESTION: It did say that, but of course, that th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC was not the situation before the Court. I mean, it -- itmay be the clearest dictum in the world. It may be thedictum closest to a holding possible, but it is stilldictum. The Court did not have before it a case in whichthe employer had already brought the suit and had lost. Now, you know, it said what would happen in thatsituation, and you know, I think that's entitled to someweight. But the issue that your opponent wants to arguehere is whether the Court was wrong to say that. MR. WALLACE: I beg to differ. The Courtspecifically noted that some of the claims of the employerhad already been dismissed in the State courts, and infootnote , at the end of the -- its opinion, it said theboard, therefore, can use the criteria we --QUESTION: But those cases were not before them. It said what the board can do in those cases that are notnow before us. As I say, it may be a dictum that is thevery next thing to a holding, but it is not a holding. Those were not cases that the Court had in front of it.MR. WALLACE: It -- it was a direction for howfurther proceedings in the case should be handled.QUESTION: Exactly, as many dicta are. As manydicta are, and we do not always observe those directionswhen we -- when we have the opportunity to examine thematter in a -- in a more immediate context. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. WALLACE: In any event, if I may turn now toaddress the question that the Court asked the parties toaddress in formulating the question presented here. Oursubmission in this case is that this Court's holding inProfessional Real Estate Investors interpreting theantitrust laws and the Court's decision in Bill Johnson's,including this -- these dicta to govern furtherproceedings interpreting the National Labor Relations Act,are entirely compatible with one another in light of theimportant differences in the purposes, processes,remedies, and practicalities of enforcement that wereimplicated in the two statutory schemes at issue.QUESTION: Well, I -- I have one particulardifference in mind that I'd like you to comment on. I --I -- it's -- it seems to me that what is sought to be donehere is much worse as far as the independence of thecourts and the guarantee of access to the courts by -- bythe citizenry is concerned than what was sought to be donein -- in -- what case -- Professional Real Estate.And this is the difference. In ProfessionalReal Estate, it would have been the courts that would havedecided the facts which would have imposed upon the losingparty attorney's fees. In this situation, it is going tobe the Labor Board that will decide the factual questionof whether there was a retaliatory motive, and the courts th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC will have to defer to that factual finding if there is abasis in the record, whether the courts agree with it ornot.I find it quite offensive to think that ArticleIII courts are going to be told that certain people whohave come to them for relief will pay a penalty for doingso on the basis of a retaliatory motive found not byArticle III courts at all but by the labor court -- but bythe Labor Board. In that respect, this case is much worsethan -- than what was going on in -- in Professional RealEstate.MR. WALLACE: Well, the board is notcontradicting anything found by the courts. The questionof retaliatory motive was not at issue in the underlyinglitigation, and the board has to wait under this Court'sdecision in Bill Johnson's before it addresses thequestion of whether there's been an unfair laborpractice --QUESTION: They will address it in a proceedingbefore the board. They will find an unfair labor practiceon the basis of their finding of a retaliatory motive.And I -- I note, by the way, as to, you know,how -- how much we can trust those -- those findings -- Ihad one of my law clerks look up how many -- how manytimes the board has imposed this kind of an unfair labor th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC practice penalty for -- for bringing a lawsuit. Since thePower Systems case in ', which is when they started thisprocess, they have decisions ordering the employer topay attorney's fees incurred in defending a lawsuit and decisions in which it -- it ordered a union to do so. Now, is -- is there some reason that unions are not usinglawyers as much as companies are these days?MR. WALLACE: Well, the -- the cases againstunions are much less numerous to begin with because unionsare less apt to bring lawsuits to interfere with therights of employees under section for concertedactivity. We're talking about a retaliation againstsection rights. Usually that's been the subject ofemployer suits, but the board does apply the same testwhen --QUESTION: There were union lawsuits in thispresent case, weren't there? Plenty of them. MR. WALLACE: But those were against theemployer, and -- and they --QUESTION: But suits -- suits against theemployer can certainly be brought to impair the -- therights of the employees not to -- not to unionize.MR. WALLACE: That would have to be a showing aviolation by the union of (b)(), not -- not that thelawsuit was an (a)() violation against the concerted th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC activities rights of employees. The employer would haveto show that the union lawsuit violated duties that theunion owes, and that was resolved against the employer onthe merits in this case because the -- the subject of thelawsuits was about working conditions at the site ofemployment, which was a legitimate union concern.QUESTION: Never -- never mind the to . Just -- just tell me why I -- as -- as an Article IIIjudge, I should not be concerned about leaving it to aFederal agency to make the factual finding that willdetermine whether somebody will be punished for bringing areasonable lawsuit, although one which ultimately loses inFederal courts. Why shouldn't I be concerned about that?MR. WALLACE: Well, this isn't punishment. It'smake-whole relief under an administrative scheme which ismeant to protect employees in the exercise of theirconcerted rights, and it involves no contradiction of anyissue that was before the -- the court in the underlyinglitigation which did not have occasion to address whetherthe suit was brought for a retaliatory purpose.QUESTION: Mr. Wallace, Mr. Baskin told us thatthere are punitive aspects to this that could lead todebarment he said. So, it's not simply to provide forfee-shifting, but that there are heavy consequences. MR. WALLACE: Well, the -- the case to which the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Chief Justice referred earlier, Wisconsin Department ofIndustrial Relations against Gould, was one in which thisCourt held that Wisconsin law was preempted, and Wisconsincould not refuse to make purchases, State purchases, fromcompanies that had been found to have violated theNational Labor Relations Act because the whole purpose ofthe remedy scheme under the National Labor Relations Actis remedial and the remedies are limited, and the idea isto get labor disputes behind us, not to have disruptionsof the economy, to keep productivity going, and to keepthe people employed. QUESTION: Well, is -- is the point of thiscolloquy whether or not this act can be called punitive orthis NLRB doctrine can be called punitive? I -- I hadthought you said that it is punitive, or am I wrong? Maybe you think nothing -- maybe you think nothing turnson that.MR. WALLACE: Well, I -- I wouldn't think that-- that anything would turn on it, but it is not punitive. The only remedy that's granted is a make-whole remedy thatthe costs incurred by the prevailing defendants in a suitbrought for an improper motive, namely to coerce thosedefendants in the exercise of rights granted them byFederal statute when suit turned out --QUESTION: But is there any other effect by th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC virtue of the finding of the unfair labor practice?MR. WALLACE: Well --QUESTION: I mean, true in terms of money, it'sthe fees. Is there any other effect --QUESTION: -- by virtue of their finding? MR. WALLACE: Notice is to be posted. The ceaseand desist order issues. Those -- those parts of theremedy were not challenged in this case.QUESTION: Well, let's just talk about the make-whole remedy. We held in that in a private suit foran unfair labor practice, which provides for making wholethe -- the plaintiff for -- for his damages, there was noauthority in the court to award attorney's fees, thatmaking whole there did not include attorney's fees. What-- and -- and, you know, the language was very clear aboutthe American rule and what a -- what a change it would be. Why -- why should it be any different when the unfairlabor practice is -- is decreed by the board rather thanin a private action? It doesn't say explicitly that you can getattorney's fees, just as -- just as the other -- the --the private action provision didn't say explicitly. Itjust said, you know, whatever damages you have. Anddamages were not intended to include that. Why should wehold any differently in this situation, especially when th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC the result is to leave it to the board to decide whether-- whether somebody will be punished for bringing ameritorious but ultimately unsuccessful suit in Federalcourt?MR. WALLACE: Well, board proceedings are muchless burdensome than -- than court proceedings to thosethat are issue, and the Court held in Bill Johnson's thatthe board remedy of recompensing the defendants whoprevailed in this suit for their costs, because the suitwas brought to defeat their section rights, was apermissible remedy by the board.QUESTION: We held it or -- or said it. I mean,that -- that's one of the disputes here, isn't it?MR. WALLACE: Yes. They held it in the sense of-- of prescribing that rule for the further proceedings tobe held in that very case on remand from the Court'sorder.QUESTION: We're just going around the dictumpoint again. I consider it dictum, and -- and the issueis whether that was a wise thing to say. MR. WALLACE: Well, when the Court prescribes arule of that nature, the United States considers itselfbound by it in its further handling --QUESTION: Yes. I'm -- I'm not criticizing youfor arguing the point, certainly not. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: Mr. Wallace, I -- do you agree thatunder the board's rule here that it does allow the boardto find the unfair labor practice and impose the sanctionson litigation brought by employers that is not limited tojust shams and abuse of process? MR. WALLACE: That's --QUESTION: It does allow the imposition of thesethings for an employer suit that could be consideredobjectively reasonable at the time it was brought.MR. WALLACE: Exactly so. That -- I thought theCourt made it quite clear in Bill Johnson's that as longas the suit was an unmeritorious one, in the sense that itdid not prevail, the board could afford the limited remedythat's available under the act. QUESTION: Well, does that have the necessaryeffect of at least chilling some conduct that is protectedby the First Amendment? I mean, it seems to me it does. You have to -- you would have to concede that it does.MR. WALLACE: But it -- it's a far less dauntingsituation than what the Court was faced with under theantitrust laws in the Professional Real Estate Investorscase. QUESTION: Mr. Wallace, isn't it correct thatthe scope of chilling is limited to those with aretaliatory motive? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. WALLACE: Absolutely. QUESTION: I thought it's where the boardfinds --QUESTION: -- already chilled those cases. QUESTION: -- to those where the board and notFederal courts on their own find a retaliatory motive.MR. WALLACE: But, of course, the board'sfindings are subject to judicial review. QUESTION: For -- so long as there's substantialevidence, which means -- you know. MR. WALLACE: Correct.QUESTION: All right. So --QUESTION: In every (a)() case, theretaliatory motive is found by the board. That's part ofthe statutory proceeding, isn't it?MR. WALLACE: That is correct.QUESTION: The other parts of this statutoryproceeding do not exclude the Federal courts from theirbusiness, do they, which this does by imposing penaltiesupon people who come to the Federal courts?MR. WALLACE: Well, I think this Court's make itquite -- this Court's decisions make it quite clear thatunder the National Labor Relations Act, it is board ratherthan courts that have the responsibility of ruling aboutunfair labor practices. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: We agree with that and the only issueis whether that statutory provision places within theboard the power to impose this particular sanction for anunfair labor practice, a penalty for bringing ameritorious lawsuit. MR. WALLACE: Well, make-whole relief --QUESTION: Isn't the make-whole relief simplythat they've said, since ours is a statute which foreseestaking labor disputes out of the courts and putting theminto the board, since that's why it was passed, we'regoing to say a -- a loser in a Federal lawsuit thatviolates that basic underlying purpose has to payattorney's fees to the winner? Now, is there anythinghere other than that?MR. WALLACE: Not -- not at all. That's -- thatis what is at issue, and the -- the National LaborRelations Act authorizes the board, under this Court'sopinion in Bill Johnson's, to afford that kind of alimited remedy --QUESTION: Well, isn't what --QUESTION: Is the courts' -- is the board'sdefinition of a unmeritorious lawsuit simply one which --in which the plaintiff does not get what the plaintiffwants. It's thrown out of court, so to speak.MR. WALLACE: That's approximately it, yes, Mr. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Chief Justice. QUESTION: How -- how would it vary? Why do youuse the term approximately? MR. WALLACE: Well, there can -- there can becases in which a voluntary dismissal was taken withprejudice. Sometimes the question of whether it was anunmeritorious suit becomes a debatable question. Butordinarily it's one, as it was in this case, in which thecourts have ruled against claims that the employer made. QUESTION: Is -- is -- I'm sorry. Is there anyauthority? I mean, I thought, as a matter of proposition,maybe there would be some authority like a -- anelectricity generating regulator would have said incertain kinds of lawsuits, you have to have fee-shifting. The SEC might say in certain kinds of lawsuits, certaincompanies have to pay attorney's fees. The barbers'regulator might say in certain union -- or certain --certain instances the barbers have to pay the legal feesof somebody else. Is -- is there any comparable authorityany other place that you've found? It -- it doesn't seem to me an absurdproposition of law or of constitutional law that aregulator who's in charge of a particular group ofindividuals or businesses says in particular circumstancesthere will be fee-shifting. But maybe that's total -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC maybe this is the only case that's ever come up. MR. WALLACE: Well, we -- we didn't come up withanalogies in which regulatory agencies do the fee-shifting. There are certainly many statutes that providefor fee-shifting. The Fogerty case discusses a number ofthem. QUESTION: But they have to be very explicitbecause it's such an extraordinary thing. That's what ourjurisprudence very clearly says. And here with -- with nomore explicitness than there was in the case in SummitValley, the -- the agency is assuming the power to fee-shift and to make the factual determination upon which thefee-shifting turns. I think that's extraordinary. MR. WALLACE: Well, there is not a reference tofee-shifting as such in the National Labor Relations Act,but Congress did say in section (a)() that it shall bean unfair labor practice to an employee to interfere with,restrain, or coerce employees in the exercise of theconcerted activity rights for mutual aid and protectionthat are guaranteed in section . And this Court in BillJohnson's recognized that there had been a history of theuse of the courts for that purpose. QUESTION: Mr. Wallace --QUESTION: In -- in a case like this, if we haveessentially these facts, if the finding of the board was th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC is that the purpose of the employer in bringing the suitwas because the employer's board of directors met and theysay, we are being hurt in the marketplace, public opinionis against us, we must bring these suits to protect ourposition in the business community, I take it that is aretaliatory motive.MR. WALLACE: Well, the retaliatory motive wouldbe -- it would have to be shown that the suit was broughtfor the purpose of coercing, discouraging, suppressing,restraining the employees in the exercise of their rights.QUESTION: Well, but you -- you know what I'mtrying -- trying to get at. The -- the union is doingthese to weaken the employer and the employer meets andsays, this is hurting our business, it's hurting us in themarketplace. Is that retaliatory?MR. WALLACE: Well, the -- the board addressesthat question in light of all the circumstances of thecase. To the extent that the suit was not baseless in lawor fact that the employer brought --QUESTION: Assume -- assume that there -- it'snot baseless. MR. WALLACE: That weighs in the employer'sfavor. There are other factors that weigh against theemployer. In this --QUESTION: But it can be retaliatory for the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC employer to protect its business against suits by theunion which are brought by the union for the motive ofweakening the employer. That's retaliatory.MR. WALLACE: Well, only if the employer hasbrought suits against the union or the employees. Itcertainly can defend against any suit --QUESTION: No. It's been bringing suits inorder to stop the other suits. MR. WALLACE: Well --QUESTION: Let -- let me ask you in a relatedvein. Maybe it's an unrelated vein. Can -- couldCongress overrule Noerr-Pennington?MR. WALLACE: This Court did not indicate in anyway that it could not reexamine, modify the rules ofNoerr-Pennington or of Professional Real Estate. TheCourt --QUESTION: In other words, Noerr-Penningtondoesn't have a constitutional underpinning. MR. WALLACE: It -- it certainly construed theantitrust laws in light of the fact that those laws focusmostly on private conduct in the marketplace, not onpetitioning for Government-imposed restraints, and thatthere was a need in construing them not to -- to allowimproper chilling of the bringing of lawsuits or otherforms of petitioning activity. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC And in -- in Professional Real Estate itself,the procedural posture focused on the need for summaryjudgment to be available against a counterclaim for trebledamages under the antitrust laws in circumstances in whichthe counterclaimant, after the underlying copyrightinfringement suit was found to be objectively reasonable,was saying, but I still need further discovery in order toascertain the intent and motives of the original plaintiffin bringing the copyright infringement suit because it'smy view that -- that they didn't really expect to prevailand that they were bringing it for anticompetitivepurposes. And the danger that the Court was addressingthere was that much of the protective quality of the Noerrdoctrine itself could be undermined if the originallawsuit that supposedly is protected could be chilled bythe prospect of burdensome discovery and treble damages.QUESTION: My -- my concern -- my concern is --is this, is that the First Amendment has its owncorrective counterspeech, but what the board has done hereis it's defined retaliatory motive so broadly that it'staken away that First Amendment corrective. And that isitself a distortion of First Amendment principles whichallowed the unions to bring these suits in the firstplace, it seems to me. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. WALLACE: Well, there -- there is a verylimited remedy available here compared to the prospectthat treble damages might be awarded on the basis ofrather unpredictable findings about subjective motivationin bringing the lawsuit. And it -- it -- it's a remedythat's been applied against a background of what thisCourt in Bill Johnson's referred to as a -- a powerfultool. Powerful was the word the Court used.QUESTION: Mr. Wallace, is retaliatory motive --is that before us in this case? I mean, it may be thatthis Court, by saying that the board -- that there was,even in this case, insufficient evidence of retaliatorymotive, but I didn't think that was the question presentedhere.MR. WALLACE: I agree with you on that point,Justice Ginsburg. QUESTION: Because on that, I was going to askyou, well, what is it that shows that this was inretaliation for violation of section rights instead ofbeing in -- in response to the union's desire simply toharass the employer? I think that there are very seriousquestions about that, but my view was of this case that --that wasn't before us.MR. WALLACE: I -- I agree with you completely. In fact -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: I take it -- I take it the backgroundof this case is that there was a finding of retaliatorymotive and we have to make our decision based upon the waythe board interprets retaliatory motive in cases such asthis. MR. WALLACE: Well, it's certainly part of thebackground of the case, but the Court did limit the grantof certiorari to whether these two decisions arecompatible given the differences between the two acts.QUESTION: And we have to defer both to theboard's determination of what constitutes a retaliatorymotive and, even more so, to the board's factualdetermination that retaliatory motive existed. All ittakes is one witness who says it existed, and that wouldconstitute substantial evidence. And if the board goeswith that witness, the courts have to effectively penalizethe company for seeking resort in the courts.MR. WALLACE: Well, there is seldom directevidence of that kind, although occasionally there isdirect evidence of animus in the bringing of the suit. But the board has relied on a number of factors, whichwe've set out on page of our brief, in various -- invarious cases in seeing retaliatory motive. In this caseone of the more persuasive ones was that the lawsuit wasbrought against parties that the plaintiff knew or should th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC have known did not participate in the allegedly unlawfulconduct. They included as defendants unions that hadnot --QUESTION: That's an issue that was raised byquestion of the cert petition, and we didn't grant it.MR. WALLACE: That's correct. That's correct. The -- the petition --QUESTION: But -- but --MR. WALLACE: -- was about the compatibility ofthe Court's decision in Professional Real Estate with whatwe had taken to be the Court's clear prescription of thelimits on the remedy of the (a)() and unfair laborpractice in the Bill Johnson's case.QUESTION: Mr. Wallace, we are concerned withthe Bill Johnson's case, and a question has been raisedabout where does the authority to come -- come from forthis fee-shifting. It does appear in the Court's opinionin Bill Johnson's. If a violation is found, the board mayorder the employer to reimburse the employees, whom he haswrongfully sued, for their attorney's fees. Where did theCourt come up with that fee-shifting? Was that somethingthat the board had been doing? Did the Government proposeit? But it's right there in the Court's of opinion thatthe proper remedy is fee-shifting. MR. WALLACE: Precisely so. But the board had th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC been doing it regardless of the merits of the underlyinglawsuit. The board had become so concerned with the useof the courts for retaliatory litigation that whether thelawsuit was meritorious or not, if it found that it wasbrought for the purpose of defeating section rights, itwas awarding fees. And the Court said, no, wait a minute. You can't do that and you can't enjoin lawsuits that arenot baseless. The Court was really correcting the boardand reining in that remedy in a way that the board hascomplied with.QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. Wallace.Mr. Baskin, you have minutes remaining.REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF MAURICE BASKINON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERMR. BASKIN: Thank you, Your Honor. I wouldjust briefly like to address the question of retaliatorymotive, but only as I understood the Justices' questionsto be does it suffice alone so that they -- the board canrightly ignore the question of the objective basis. And-- and the reason it does not suffice, among others, isperhaps looking at the decisions Justice Scalia found,there's only one among them where there was no finding ofretaliatory motive and there only because it was foundthat the action didn't relate in any way to the unionactivity. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: There was only one -- one where what?MR. BASKIN: Where there was no finding, wherethe board found no retaliatory motive. It found againstthe employers out of times. Once it found that theemployer had lost the lawsuit, automatically according tothe board, no merit. Even though they had all the bestcircumstances leading up to the loss, they lost. Nomerit.Then the board proceeds to the retaliatorymotive step supposedly going to protect employers, and allthey say is does it relate to union activity. Well, if itrelates, except for one case where it didn't, boom, youlose. The employers lose. And what the result of that is, is that noemployer can go to court if any sort of protected activityis even arguably involved because even if you convene apanel of experts, as BE&K did in this case, and go as faras you can to make sure you are not trampling on anyemployee rights, if you go to court, you will be found tohave violated the law unless you can say with percentcertainty that you're going to win. And no one can saythat.QUESTION: I didn't know -- as long as you'refinished, I thought the cases were cases in whichthey awarded attorney's fees. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. BASKIN: No. cases with attorney's feesplus, attorney's fees --QUESTION: All right. Now, I thought theyweren't supposed to award attorney's fees or anythingunless there was a retaliatory motive.MR. BASKIN: Yes. The board found retaliatorymotive. QUESTION: All right. No, but I mean, of coursethey did. I mean, how many cases where there where peoplealleged retaliatory motive and they found the opposite?MR. BASKIN: In the cases --QUESTION: No. Those are the ones where theywon. How many did they lose? I mean, I don't understandthis case business. I thought the cases were theones that they awarded it in, and I thought they were onlysupposed to award it where it's retaliatory. So, it'shardly surprising it's retaliatory.MR. BASKIN: No. As I understood JusticeScalia, and frankly our own research, is these are cases that reached the board where the board could havegone either way, and every time, except for the one, theyfound no merit and retaliatory motive. And they did soalmost automatically because of their misreading of aprinciple. We say a misreading. But either way, it's abad principle. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: Well, when you say the board couldhave gone either way, you don't mean that you know theevidence and that, in fact, on the evidence, the boardcould have gone either way. You simply mean that it's acase in which if the evidence showed there wasretaliation, they could award the fees, and if theevidence did not show retaliation, they couldn't award thefees. Right? MR. BASKIN: The cases are --QUESTION: So, all we know is that in thosecases, they found retaliatory motive. We don't know thatthey're wrong.MR. BASKIN: Yes, that's -- that's what we know. They found retaliatory motive. And the limited point thatI'm making here at the end is that this retaliatory motiveidea is no more -- not enough protection under the NLRAjust as it is not enough protection -- and you've alreadyfound it to be not enough protection -- under theantitrust laws. And that's why the Professional RealEstate standard is the correct standard and it's the onlyone that protects employers' rights under the FirstAmendment. Thank you. CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: Thank you, Mr. Baskin.The case is submitted. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC (Whereupon, at : p.m., the case in theabove-entitled matter was submitted.) th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC A about : : :,, : : : : : : :,, : : : :,, :, : :, :, above-entitled : : Absolutely : : absurd : abuse : : accept : accepted : access : : : according : account : across : : act : : : : :,, : : : : action : :, : activities : activity : : : : : : :, actors : acts : : actually : addition : address :, :, : : : addresses : : addressing : : adjudicate : : : adjudicated : adjudication : administration : administrative : : adopt : adopting : advance : adverse : affected : afford : : after : : : : : again : : against :, :, :, :, :,, : : : :, :,, : : : : agencies : agency : : : ago : : agree :, : : : : : agreeable : ahead : aid : AL : alleged : allegedly : allow :, : allowed : almost : alone : : already : : : : :, : : although : : : always : : ambiguity :,,,, ambiguous : : : : : : Amendment :,, : : : :, :, :,,, : :,, : American : among :, analogies : analyzes : animus : another : : : answer : : : : answered : answers : anticipate : anticompetitive : antitrust :, : :, : :, : : : : : anything : : : : : : apparently : : : appeals : : : : appear : APPEARANCES : appendix : applied : : : apply : : : : approach : approximately : : April : apt : area : arguably : argue : arguing : argument : :, :, :, :, : :, : : : arising : around : Article :, : ascertain : asked : asking : : : : aspects : assume : :, assuming : : attack :,, attorney's : : : :, : : : : : : :, authority : :,, : authorizes : automatic :, : automatically : : : available : : : : award : :, :, awarded : : : awarding : aware :, away : : a.m : : B B : back : : : : :, : : background : :, bad : barbers :, barely : based : : : baseless : : : : : : : basic : : : basically : basis : :,, : :, : :, : :,, : : Baskin : :, :,, :,, : :,, :,,, :, :,,, :,, :,, :,, :,,,,, : :, :, :,, :,, :,, :,, :,, :, :,,, :,,, :,, : :, :, : : :,, : :,,, :,, Baskin's : become : :, :,, : becomes : before : : :, : : : :,,, :, : :, beg : begin : beginning : : begun : behalf :, :,, : : : behavior : behind : being : : : : :, : : th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC believe : believes : best : : : : between : : :,, : : beyond : BE&K : :, : : : : Bill : :,,, : : :, : :, : :, : :, :,,, :, : : : : : : : :,, bit : blah :,,, board : :, :, :,, :, : : :,,, : :, : :, : : : :,,, :,,, : :,,, :, : : : : :,,, :, : :,,,, : : :, :, :, :,,, : :, : :, : : :,, :,, :,,, :,, :,, :, boards : board's : :, : : : : : : : : :, body : :, books : boom : both : : :, : : : : : bound : branch :, break : Breyer's : : brief : : briefly : bring : : : bringing : : : : : : : :, :, : : broadly : broke : brought : :, : : : : : :, :, :, : : burdensome : : business :, : :, : : businesses : : C C : : California : : called : :, came : : candid : carried : carve : carving : case :, : : :, :, : :, : :,,, : :,,, :,, : : :, :, : :, :, : : : : : :,,, : :,, : :, :, :, : :, : cases : : : : :, :, : : : :,, :,, : : : :, :, :,,,, :, cautiously : cease : : : cert : : certain : :,,,,, certainly : : : : :, : certainty : : certiorari : challenged : change :, : character :, charge : Chief :, : : : : : chilled :, : : chilling :, :, : Christiansburg : Circuit :, circumstances : : : : cited : citing : citizenry : civil : claim : claims : : clarify : Clause : clear : : : : : : : : : clearest : clearly : : : : clerical : clerks : client : closely : closest : coerce : : coercing : colloquy : come : : : : : :, :,, comment : committed : : commonality : community : companies : : : : company : : :, : comparable : compared : compatibility : compatible : : compelling : completed : : completely : complied : component : comprehensively : concede : conceivable : concern : : :, concerned :, : :, : : concerted :, : : conclusion : conditions : conduct : : : Congress : : : : : : congressional : consequences :, : consider : : considerable : consideration : considerations : considered : : : considers : consistent : : : consistently : : constantly : constitute : constitutes : : Constitution :, : : constitutional : :, : : : constitutionally : Construction : :, construe : construed : construing : : contention : contest : contested : :, context : : contracting : th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC contradicting : contradiction : convene : copyright :, correct : : :, :, : correcting : corrective :, costs : : count : counterclaim : counterclaimant : counterspeech : countervailing : countries : country : course : : : : court :, :,,,, :, :, :,,,, :,, : :, : : : : : :,,,, : :, : :, :,, :, :,,,, :, :,,, : : : : : : :,,, :, : : :, : :,, : : :, :, courts : : : : : : : :,,, :,, : : :,,, :, : : :, : Court's : : :, : : : :, : : :, : :,,, criteria : criticizing : cross : customers :, D D : damages :,,, :,, :, : danger : : daunting : day : days : deal :, dealing : debar : debarment :, : : debarred : debatable : decades :,, decide : : decided :, : decides : : decision : : : : : : : : decisions : :, : : : decisis :,, declaration : : : declared : : decreed : defeat : defeating : defend : : defendant : defendants :, : : defending : : defer : : : : deference :,, :,, : deferred : define : defined : : : defines : definitely : definition : : definitive : Department : : Depending : Deputy : describe : desire : desist : : : determination : :, determine : determined : dicta :,,,,,,, : :, : dictum :,,, :, differ : difference :, : :, : :, differences : : : : different : : :, : : :, : : : differently : difficulty : direct :, direction : directions : directly : directors : disagree :, discouraging : discovery :, discretion : discusses : dismissal : dismissed : disputes : : : : disruptions : dissents : dissipated : distinction : : distinguished : distortion : district : : doctrine : : : : document : doing :, : : : : done : : : : :, : : doubt : :,, during : duties : D.C :,, E E : : each : : : : earlier : easily : economy : effect :, : : : effectively : either : : : :, : : elapsed : electricity : element :, elements : employed : employee : : employees : : : : :, :, : : : : employer :,, : : : : : : :, :, :, :, :, : : :, :,, :,, : : :, employers : : : : :, : :,, : employer's : :, employment : end : : : : : : : enforce : enforcement : engaging : English : : enjoin : : : enjoining : enough :,, entirely : entitled : : th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC erroneous : : especially : ESQ :, :,, essential : essentially : Estate :, : : : : : : :,, : : : : : : ET : even : :, : : :, : event : ever : : : every : : : : evidence : : :,, :,,, exactly :, : : examine : except : : exception : :, exclude : Excuse : exercise : : : : : exercising : existed :, exists : expect : : expected : expert :, experts : Explain : explicit : explicitly :, explicitness : explored : exposed : extent : extraordinary :, F faced : fact : : : : : : : : : : : : factors : : facts : : : : factual : : : : : far : : : favor : favorably : Federal : :, :, : : :,, : federalism : fee : :, fees : : : : :, :, : :, : : : :,, :, fee-shifting :, : : : :, :,, :, : file : : filed : filing : : find : : :, : : finding : : :, : : : : : : : findings : : : finds : : finished : first :,, : : :, : : : : : : : : : : : : :, :, : :,,, : focus : focused : Fogerty : followed :,, footnote : forbids : foresees : forget : form : forms : formulating : forth : forum : found : : :, : : : : : :,, :, :, :,, :,, frankly : free : fresh : from :, : : : : : : : : :, : : : : : front :, : further : : :, : future : G G : : : : gave : geared : general : : generally : generating : getting : : Ginsburg : : Ginsburg's : : give : given : go : : :, :, : :, goes :, : : :, : going : : : :, : : : : : :, : : : : :, gone : :, good : goodwill : Gould : govern : Government :,,, : governmental : Government-imposed : grant : : : granted :, gravamen : great : : greater : ground : group : guarantee : guaranteed : guessed : H half : halt : hand : handled : handling : happen : happened : : harass : hard : hardly : having : : : : :, hear : : : heavy : held : : : : :,, : him : hindsight : history :, :, : hold : : holding :, : :,, : holds : home : Honor : : : : hurt : hurting :, I idea : : ignore : ignores : ignoring : : III :, : illegality : th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC :, : : lawsuit : : : : :, : : :,,, :,, :, :,, : : : :, : lawsuits :, : : :, :, : :, : : lawyers : : lead : leading : leap : learning : least : : : : leave : leaving : led : legal : : : legislative :, legitimate : length : less : :, : : let : :, letting : : let's : : level : light : : : like :, : : : : : : : : limit : limited : :,, : : : limits : line : listen : litigant : litigation : : : :, : : : : little : : long : : : :,, : : : : immediate : immunity : impact : impair : implicated : important : : : : : : impose : : imposed : : imposing : imposition : impossible : : : improper : : : inaction : include :, included : including : inconsistencies : inconsistent : inconsistently : incurred : : Indeed : independence : indicate : : individuals : indulgent : Industrial : infringement :, instances : instead : instructed : insufficient : intended : : intent : interacted : interchangeably : interest : :, interesting : interfere : : : internally : interpret : interpretation : :, interpreted : : : interpreting : : :, : : interprets : interrupt : intervene : Investors : : : invite : invited : involved :, : : involves : irony : : issue :,,, : : : : : : : : : : :, :, : issues : issuing : J jeopardy : job : Johnson : : : Johnson's : :,, : : :, : :, : : :, :,,, :, : : : : : : : :,, judge : judgment : :, : judicial : jurisprudence : jury : just : : : : : : :, :,,, : : : : Justice : :, : : : :,, : :, : : : : : : : Justices : Justice's : K keep : : :, keeping : keeps : key : :, kind : : : : kinds :, knew : know : : :, : : : : : : :,, : known : L : : : : :, : : :, :, : :, :, :,,,, :,, :,, : :, :,, :, : language : : : : :, : : last : later : law : : : :, :, :, :, :, : : : : : :, : : LAWRENCE : : : laws : : : : : : labeled : labor : :,, : :,, : longer : look :, :, :, : : looked : : looking : : lose : : : :, : :, : loser : loses : losing : loss : lost : : : :, lower : M made : : : : : : th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC mainly : make : : : : : :, : : : makes : make-whole : : :, making : : :, : malpractice : many : : : :, : : : :, marketplace :, : matter : : : : : : MAURICE : :, : : may : : :, :, : : :,,, : :,, : : : maybe :, :, : : mean : :, : :, : : : : : : : : :,, :, meaning : means : : : meant :, : : : : meets : mere : merit :,, :,, : :, : meritless : meritorious :, : : :, : :, : : : : merits : : : : merit/without : : met : middle : might :, : mind : : : minute : minutes : misinterpreted : misreading :, misstating : modify : moment : : money : : : more : :, : : : : : : : :, : most :, : :, : : : mostly : : motivation : :, : : motive : : :,, : :,, : : :, : : : : :, :,, :, :, :, :,, : :,, motives : Motor : much : : : : : :, :, : : must :,, : : : mutual : N N :, : namely : National : :,, : : : :, : : : naturally : nature : necessary : need : : :, never : :, next : : NLRA : : : NLRB :,, : : : Noerr : Noerr-Pennington : :,, nonmeritorious : : normal : note : : noted : nothing : : : :, notice : : number :, : : numerous : O O : : objection : objective : :, : : : : objectively :, : : : observe : obvious : obviously :, occasion : occasionally : offensive : officers : Okay : once : : : : : : one : : : :, : :, : : : : : : :, : : : : : : : :, : :,,, : : ones : :, ongoing : :, : : only : : : : : : : : : : : : :,, : : : opening : opinion :,, : : : : : :, :,, : : : : : :, opinions : : opponent : opportunity : : opposed : opposite : oral : : : : order : : : : : : : ordered : ordering : ordinarily : organized : original :, other : : : : : : : : : :, : :, : : : : :,, others : otherwise :, : out :, : : : : : : :, :, :, :, : :, : : outcome :, : outside : over : : :, : : : overrule : owes : own : :,, : : : P P : page : : panel : paragraph :, : parsing : part : : : : : : : : : participate : particular : : :, particularly : parties : : parts : : party : : passed : : : pay : : : : :, penalize : penalties : penalty : : : people : : : : : : : percent :, : : : perhaps : period : :,, : permissible : th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC persist : persuasive : petition : : :, Petitioner :, :, :, : petitioning :, phrase : phrasing : place : : : : : : places : plaintiff : :, : : please : : : Plenty : plus : point :, : : : : : : : position :, : : possible : post : posted : posture : power : : : powerful :, practicalities : practice : : : : : : : : :, :, : :,, : : : : practices : preceded : precisely : : predict : preempted : prejudice : premise : prescribes : prescribing : prescription : present : : presented : : presents : pretty : : prevail : : : prevailed : prevailing :, : : previous : principle :, principles : prior :, private : :,, : privately : problem : procedural : proceed : : proceeding : :, : :, proceedings : : :,, proceeds : process : : : : : processes : : productivity : Professional :, : : : : : : :,, : : : : : : prohibit : prohibiting : prohibits :, proper : propose : proposition :, prosecution : prospect : : protect : : : : : protected : : : : : protection : : :,, protective : protects : : proved : : : provide : : provides : provision : : public : punished : : punishment : : : punitive : :,,, purchases :, purely : purported : purpose :,, : : : : : : :, : purposes : : pursue : put : putative : puts : putting : p.m : Q quality : query : question : :,,,, :, :, :,, : :,, : :,, :,,,,, : :,,,,, :, : :, :,,,, : :, :,, :,,, :,, :,,, :,, : :,,,,, :,, :, :, : :,,, : :, :,,, : :, :, :, :, :,, :,, :,,, :,,,,,, :,,, :,,, :,, :,, : :,, : :,, :, :,,,, :,, :, :,, :, questions : : : : quite : : : : :, quote : : R R : raised : :, raising : : random : rather : : : reach : reached : read : :,, : :, reading : : : reads : Real :, : : : : : : :,, : : : : : : realistically : really : : : : reason : : : reasonable : : :, : : : : reasons : : rebuttal : : : recognized : : recompensing : record : reexamine : reference : : references : referred :, : : : referring : refuse : regardless : regime :, regret : regrettably : regulator :,, regulatory : REHNQUIST : : reimburse : reining : rejected : relate : : related : relates : : Relations : :,, : : : : :,, : : : relied : relief : : :, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC remainder : remaining : remand : : remarks : remedial : remedies : : remedy :,, :, :, : : :, :, : reply : reputation :, require : required : research : reserve : resolved : : resort : respect : : : Respondents : : : response : : : : responses : responsibility : restrain : restraining : restraint :, restraints : result :, : : retaliate : : :, retaliation : :,,,, : : :, retaliatory :,, :, : :, :,,, :, : :,, : : : : :,,, : : : : :,,,, :,, :, :,,,,, :, : reversed : review : reviewed : revisit : right : :,, :,, : :, :, : : : :, : rightly : rights : :,, :, : : : : : : : : rubber : rule : : : : : :, : ruled : : rules : : ruling : : S S : : same : : :, : : : : : sanction : : : sanctions : saying : :, : : : :, : : says : : : :, : : : : : : : Scalia : : : scheme : : schemes : scope : SEC : second : : : section : :, : :, : : see : : seeing : seeking : : seem : : seems : :, :, :, : : : : seldom : sense : : : : sentence : serious : : set :, : : settled : :, :,, : :,,,, several : sham : : shams : shift : shifting : : show : : showed : showing : shown :, :, : shows : side's : simply : :, : : since : : : : :, site : : situation :, : : :, : : : : : situations : Sixth :, slow : sole : solely : : Solicitor : some : : :, : :, : : : somebody : : : someone : someone's : something : : Sometimes : somewhat : sooner : sorry : : : sort : sought : :, so-called : speak : specifically : : :, : speed : spelled : spend : : stake : stamp : standard : :,, :,, : :, : :, :, stare :,, started : State : : : :, : : : : stated :, States :, : statute : :, : :, : : : : : statutes :, : : :,, : :, : statutory : :,, : :, :, : :, : stay : : stayed : step : : stick : still : : : stop :, : : stopping : : straightforward : stronger : subject : : : subjective : subjects : submission : submit : submitted : : subsequent : substantial : : substantive : success : sue :, sued : suffice :, suit : : : :, :, : :, : : :, : :,, :, : :, : : :, : suits : :,, : :,,, : summary : Summit : th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC suppose : supposed :, supposedly : : suppressing : Supreme :, sure : : : surprising : Systems : T T :, tail : take : :, : : : : : : :, taken : :, :, : : : : takes : : taking : : : talk : talking : : : : :, : :, : : tell : : tells : tend : term : terms : test :,,,,, :, : : : Thank : :, :, their : : : : : : : : : :, : : : : : themselves : thing : : : : : things : : think : :, :, : : : : : :,, : : : :,, : : :, though : thought : : : : : : :,, three :, : through : : : : : : throughout : thrown : time : : : : : : times : : timing : today : told : : tool : total : traditionally : trampling : Transport : treat : : treating : treble :, :, : tribute : tries : triple : true : trust : trying : : : :, Tuesday : turn : : : turned :, : turns : : : twice : two : : : : :,, : :, U ultimately : : : unconstitutional : under :,, : : : :,,,, : : : : : : : :,, : : : :,, underlies : : underlying : : : : understandings : understood : : unfair : : : : : : :, :,, :,, : : : : : union : : :,, :,, : : :,, : : unionize : unions : : : : :,, : : union's : unit : United :, : unlawful :, : unlawfulness : unless :, : : unlike : unmeritorious : :,, : : : : unpredictable : unrelated : unsuccessful : until : unworkable : : : upheld : use : : : : : : undermined : underpinning : understand : : : : : : : used : : using : : Usually : U.S : V v : : Valley : various :, vary : vein :, verdict : very : : : : : : : : : : :, : : view : : : : : : : : vigorously : violated :, : : : : violates : violation : :, : : violator : : violators : virtue :, voluntary : W wait : : : Wallace : : :,, :, :,, :, : : : :, :,, : :, :,, :,,,, :, :,, :,, : :, : :,, :,,, : :,, :, :,,, : want : : wanted : wants :, : : Washington :,, wasn't : : way : :, : : : : : : : :, : : : : :, :, :, weaken : weakening : weigh : weighs : : weight : : : Weighty : well :,,, :,, : : : : : : :,,, : :, :,, : :, : : : : : : th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC : : : :,, :, : : : -year :,, : / : : : : : : : :,, :,,,, : : : : : : : : : : : :, : : : : : (a)() : : : : : (b)() : wending : were : : : : : :, : :, :, : : :, weren't : : we'll : : we're :,, : : :, : :, :, :, : : :,, :, : : : : : :, :, :, :, : : :, : :, :,, :, :, :, : : we've :,, : White :, White's : whole : :, : :,, win : : : : wind : winner : win-or-lose : Wisconsin : :,, wise : withdrawn : witness :, won : : : wonder : word : : : words : work : : working : world : : worse : : wouldn't : : wrong :, : : : wrongfully : X :, X Y years : : :, :, : : zero : Z - : : :, : : : : : : : : : : th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC 