IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XNORFOLK & WESTERN RAILWAY COMPANY, Petitioner :::v. : No. -FREEMAN AYERS, ET AL. :- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XWashington, D.C.Wednesday, November , ,The above-entitled matter came on for oralargument before the Supreme Court of the United States at: a.m.APPEARANCES:CARTER G. PHILLIPS, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf ofthe Petitioner.DAVID B. SALMONS, ESQ., Assistant to the SolicitorGeneral, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; onbehalf of the United States, as amicus curiae,supporting the Petitioner.RICHARD J. LAZARUS, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf ofthe Respondents. C O N T E N T SORAL ARGUMENT OF CARTER G. PHILLIPS, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioner ORAL ARGUMENT OFDAVID B. SALMONS, ESQ. PAGEOn behalf of the United States, as amicus curiae,supporting the Petitioner ORAL ARGUMENT OFRICHARD J. LAZARUS, ESQ.On behalf of the Respondents REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OFCARTER G. PHILLIPS, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioner P R O C E E D I N G S(: a.m.)CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: We'll hear argumentnow in Number -- or rather, -, Norfolk & WesternRailway Company versus Freeman Ayers.Mr. Phillips.ORAL ARGUMENT OF CARTER G. PHILLIPSON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERMR. PHILLIPS: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice, andmay it please the Court:In , this Court recognized that there is anasbestos litigation crisis confronting the Nation, andnothing in the last five years has -- done anything otherthan to show that that crisis is more acute now than atany other time in our history. The Rand Corporation in areport just two months ago concluded that there are now, defendants confronted with asbestos litigationclaims, that the estimated value of those claims inlitigation costs exceeds $ billion.The six plaintiffs who are involved in thiscase, the respondents here today, are emblematic of atleast a fundamental element of the problem that confrontsasbestos litigation. Each of them received close to, andin some instances more than a million dollars incompensatory damages for claims of asbestosis. The basis for their claim, the primary basis for their claim wasthat they confronted a fear of cancer.Asbestosis does not convert into cancer --QUESTION: How do we know that? I mean, Inotice that the awards there seem to grow with age, andthey don't seem to vary depending upon smoking. I mean,they're inversely related to age, they don't seem to beaffected by smoking, and that suggested to me that maybeit didn't play a major part, this fear of cancer. How dowe know that it played a major part?MR. PHILLIPS: Well, there is a legal answer andthere is a factual answer. The legal answer is that youhave to assume it because the jury was instructed toinclude it as an element, and under West Virginia law, it is absolutely settled and respondents don't contest it.QUESTION: Well, but that, the fact that it'sone element doesn't mean it's the primary element, doesit? They did all suffer physical impairment as a resultof the asbestosis itself, did they not?MR. PHILLIPS: They all suffered asbestosis, andthey all suffered some physical elements of it.QUESTION: And how do you know that the physicalimpairment was not the primary ingredient in the juryverdict. I don't understand that.MR. PHILLIPS: I don't know that it's not the primary ingredient, Justice Stevens. What I do know isthat as a matter of law, you can't ignore the fact thatthe -- that fear of cancer was put before the jury as asignificant component of the plaintiff's case in chief,that the jury was instructed to include that, and that --QUESTION: Yes, but you said it was the primaryelement of damages, and that's what I think Justice Breyerand I are wondering whether the record reallysupports that element --MR. PHILLIPS: Well, I think the record supportsit in the sense that we know that these are asbestosisclaims that even the respondents' expert testified weremild, for the most part. One or two differences aboutthat, but these are still relatively mild asbestosis claims, and mild asbestosis claims do not typicallygenerate million-dollar damages awards --QUESTION: Did the defendant --MR. PHILLIPS: -- particularly where there's nocost of medical care as part of the component.QUESTION: Mr. Phillips, did the defendantattempt to test this by seeking a special verdict so thatthe damages could be broken down by the jury? This was ageneral verdict, so we don't know how much they gave foranything.MR. PHILLIPS: No, the defendants didn't -- the defendant did not ask for that.QUESTION: But it could have --MR. PHILLIPS: What the defendant did ask for,Justice Ginsburg, was to have fear-of damages eliminatedas a component of the case in a case like this --QUESTION: But they could have -- if they testedthis, isolated this, and then we'd know how much wasactually allocated, whether it was as he initially saidthe primary, or whether it was a lesser thing. We justdon't know.MR. PHILLIPS: Oh, and that's because it's theplaintiff's burden. If they didn't want to have -- ifthey didn't want to take the risk of a general verdictbeing set aside because there's an element of damages that's included that the court ultimately decides shouldbe excluded as a matter of law, they then bear the riskand the burden of having the case sent back for a newtrial.QUESTION: Oh, but the relevance of this, Ithink your overall point, in my mind, is that the otherside would say, I think they do say that this is a case inwhich there was an impact, and as a result of theimpact -- the thickening of the lungs -- the person doeshave a fear of getting cancer greater than most people,that that's -- entitles them under traditional law to some damages, and where you can get a special verdict, it'seasy to see, if the jury has awarded too much damage forthat, in which case you get a reversal under -- you get areversal if they give too much for it, and -- so what'sthe problem here that has anything to do with there being, plaintiffs and enormous damage and problems overall?MR. PHILLIPS: Well, the problem's easy toidentify, that is that if the instruction is that everyonewho suffers a diagnosed case of asbestosis is entitled togo to the jury on fear of cancer claims, then the amountof damages that will be generated as a consequence of thatwill run completely out of sync --QUESTION: Why?MR. PHILLIPS: -- with the damages that --QUESTION: Why would it? Why -- maybe they'reentitled to some fear. A person who has no problem in theworld has a in chance of dying in cancer. A personwho's subjected to asbestos may have a in chance.MR. PHILLIPS: But this Court --QUESTION: That gives them entitlement to somelittle amount, anyway.MR. PHILLIPS: Justice Breyer, you said, or theCourt said in Buckley that you don't analyze these issuescase by case. What you have to do is make a judgmentabout the category of cases that's based on the policies of the Federal Employers Liability Act, and the policy --QUESTION: Mr. Phillips, under West Virginiapractice, is it -- if a plaintiff or a defendant requestsa special verdict, is it automatically allowed, or is itin the discretion of the trial court?MR. PHILLIPS: It's in the discretion of thetrial court, and it is also clear under West Virginia lawthat if two theories are put before the jury with respectto damages and one of them is impermissible, the answer isyou strike down and you get a new trial on damages, sothat's -- that's clear. And I don't -- I don't hear therespondents as arguing anything to the contrary.QUESTION: Mr. Phillips, do we look at this caseas one of a claim for traditional pain and suffering damages? Is that how we should view it?MR. PHILLIPS: No. This Court said in Gottshallthat pain and suffering damages are describable assensations stemming directly from a physical injury orcondition.The physical injury that -- that's identifiedhere is asbestosis, and to be sure, the pain and sufferingthat an asbestotic would be allowed to recover for mightbe a fear of shortness of breath or other symptoms thatarise out of asbestosis, but the notion that cancer thatdoesn't exist currently, may never take place, stems from the existence of asbestosis is not a fair application ofthat rule of law, particularly when there is no evidence,and again, I don't think respondents challenge this, thatasbestosis does not cause cancer, it does not lead tocancer.QUESTION: But, it sounds like you want us tosay there is some limitation on the availability of painand suffering damages in the context of an asbestosiscase.MR. PHILLIPS: All -- Not --QUESTION: It would be something different thanone would think of in a traditional pain and sufferingcase, wouldn't it?MR. PHILLIPS: Well, I think it's the respondents who are asking you to do something differentwith a pain and suffering case, and actually I'm not evensure that's a fair way to characterize the respondents'argument. I don't understand them to be arguing that thisis a classic pain and suffering --QUESTION: Well, I'm trying to find out whatyou're arguing.MR. PHILLIPS: Right, and my argument is, thisis not under any circumstances the kind of pain andsuffering that we traditionally think of. It's notsomething that emanates directly out of the existing injury. Second, it's not negligent infliction ofemotional distress, and it's not emotional injury as acomponent of a negligence claim.QUESTION: Well, what was it -- was the casepresented as a separate claim for negligently-causedemotional distress?MR. PHILLIPS: No. It was --QUESTION: No. It was a pain and sufferingargument. That's what it was, wasn't it?MR. PHILLIPS: Well, it wasn't clear exactlywhat it was until the jury -- until we got to the juryinstructions. At that point, the trial judge did say, Iview these as pain and suffering.QUESTION: As pain and suffering.MR. PHILLIPS: Yes.QUESTION: I mean, I thought that's what we wereconfronting here.MR. PHILLIPS: Well, except that the traditionalstandard for pain and suffering doesn't permit the kind ofdisconnect between the fear of cancer that you're talkingabout here and asbestosis. You normally associate painand suffering as sensations that emanate directly from theinjury itself, and fear of cancer doesn't emanate at allfrom asbestosis.QUESTION: But it can include fright. MR. PHILLIPS: Fright from asbestosis --QUESTION: Yes.MR. PHILLIPS: -- to be sure.QUESTION: Is it conceded -- I think you said itwas conceded, but is it conceded that fear of cancer doesnot emanate from asbestosis? If it's clear that you havea greater risk of cancer if you have contractedasbestosis, why isn't the fear connected to theasbestosis?MR. PHILLIPS: Well, it's interesting, you know,the testimony itself was simply, do you have a fearbecause of exposure to asbestos now that you haveasbestosis. They didn't even ask the question whether thefear arises out of the asbestosis.QUESTION: Did you ask questions about thecausation theory that you're now espousing?MR. PHILLIPS: No. Our argument, JusticeSouter, was that fear of cancer is too unrelated, as amatter of law, to be an element of pain and suffering.QUESTION: Okay, but I take it your argument isthat the mere fact that there is an association betweenasbestosis and a higher risk of developing cancer,depending on whether you smoke and so on, is not enough ofan association to support a -- in effect, a separateelement of damages for fear of cancer? MR. PHILLIPS: Yes, Your Honor.QUESTION: What is your authority for that? Inother words, you're saying there's got to be some kind ofa different, or more intense causal relationship thansimply this association that can statistically be shown.MR. PHILLIPS: I think --QUESTION: What's the basis for that?MR. PHILLIPS: Buckley, frankly, is as close toanything on that score, because Buckley says even if youaccept as an article of faith, as I think the Court did,that each of those individuals who'd been exposed toasbestos felt that he or she would be more seriously atrisk --QUESTION: Did they have asbestosis? MR. PHILLIPS: No, none of the --QUESTION: No --MR. PHILLIPS: No.QUESTION: -- they didn't, and the point hereis that there is proof of asbestosis, and there is astatistical showing that you don't deny, I think, of ahigher degree of risk, what -- however the causal chainworks -- which associates asbestosis with fear of cancer,so this is not a Buckley situation, and my question is,why isn't that statistical association sufficient toground an instruction allowing for compensation for fear that results from this association?MR. PHILLIPS: There are two answers to that,Justice Souter. In the first place, the -- there is nostrong common law doctrine that says that those -- thatthat kind of a disconnect between the damages is a coreelement of what the common law routinely grants for --QUESTION: Well, you call it disconnect, hecalls it a connect. What it is, there is, I take it, anundenied statistical association between asbestosis and aprobability of developing cancer --MR. PHILLIPS: Right.QUESTION: -- and that's the basis for the claimof the fear. Why is that inconsistent with a common lawtheory of pain and suffering damages?MR. PHILLIPS: Well, the core of the pain andsuffering -- the pain and suffering theory is that it is afright that emanates directly out of the particularcondition you have, which is asbestosis.QUESTION: All right, if you want to use thatkind of terminology, I don't see why you haven't got ithere. The reason these people are worried is that they'vegot asbestosis, and people with asbestosis have a higherchance of developing cancer. Isn't that enough out of, inyour terms?MR. PHILLIPS: No. Even if you accept that premise, Justice Souter, you still have to confront theoverall policies of the Federal Employers Liability Act,and the question of whether not allowing a recovery thatmight otherwise be legitimate -- and that is preciselywhat the Court said --QUESTION: So, are you saying that even if thecommon law allowed it, we should not allow it under theact, or the act doesn't allow it?MR. PHILLIPS: Well, I don't think the commonlaw clearly allows it.QUESTION: Okay. Have you got any authority forthat proposition --MR. PHILLIPS: No, because --QUESTION: -- that an association between thesetwo conditions is insufficient to support a damage award?MR. PHILLIPS: There are lower court -- we citethe Pennsylvania Supreme Court decisions, the EleventhCircuit decisions -- there are decisions out there thathave said we're not going to allow fear of cancer in casesinvolving asbestosis, but I --QUESTION: Well, there does appear to be aminority of jurisdictions that have said -- and haveheld -- that you have to show as a plaintiff in a caselike this a verifiable causal nexus between cancer and theinjury suffered in cases where you're dealing with exposure to a hazardous material. That -- maybe that's areasonable requirement, but it appears to be a minorityview. Are you suggesting that we should adopt that here?MR. PHILLIPS: Well, I'm not asking you to -- Idon't think the answer to this case resides in the commonlaw, because I think the common law is essentially amuddle. There are cases on both sides.QUESTION: Well, are you -- do you think weshould adopt an interpretation of FELA that says there hasto be some verifiable causal nexus?MR. PHILLIPS: Absolutely, Justice O'Connor, andthe reason to do that --QUESTION: Do you acknowledge that that is aview that is generally a minority view in the country? MR. PHILLIPS: I -- I -- I'll concede that it isa minority view in the sense that there are maybe fivecases on one side --QUESTION: Yes.MR. PHILLIPS: -- and three or four on theother.QUESTION: Yes.MR. PHILLIPS: This is not an area that's beenlitigated sufficiently to be able to say where the trendsare.QUESTION: It may make sense, but I just want to know where we are here.MR. PHILLIPS: Right. Well, I've only got twoor three cases that identify it in the context -- the wayyou just did, Justice O'Connor, and my colleague on theother side will identify four or five cases that don'timpose that requirement, but what remains absolutelycritical in the analysis of this case, I think, is thecore policy that this Court identified in Gottshall and inBuckley that says if you don't have a clear answer fromthe common law, you have to look to see whether or notthis particular damages remedy creates the possibility ofunpredictable and unlimited damages, and that's the reasonwhy the Court needs to adopt a more restrictive view ofthe standard to be applied under the Federal Employers Liability Act.That may not be the rule that would be requiredas a matter of common law in any particular State, butunder FELA, the notion that you're going to createunlimited liability in circumstances in which theplaintiffs are allowed significantly reduced requirementsin order to prove the basis for their claim suggests thatthis Court has consistently taken the position that itmust cut back and not allow on a category basis -- on acategorical basis -- not allow damages to extend to --QUESTION: But what -- I mean, what -- unlimited damages, I don't know what you want us to do. What if thestatistical chance of your getting cancer if you haveasbestosis is -- is your chances are doubled. Would thatbe enough to create the kind of a fear that we could allowdamages for it?MR. PHILLIPS: No, I don't think so --QUESTION: I see.MR. PHILLIPS: -- Justice Scalia.QUESTION: What if it's percent certain thatif you have developed asbestosis, you will develop cancer?MR. PHILLIPS: I think that would be a differentcase. I think once you get past more likely than not --QUESTION: Okay, so it's somewhere between and percent?MR. PHILLIPS: I think when you get past morelikely than not that you will incur cancer, there is arisk, then at that point -- but remember, the flip side ofthis is the two-disease rule, and that's an importantelement in how the Court ought to analyze this problem,because not only -- by allowing fear of cancer damagesnow, you essentially say to the world, the sky is thelimit, inconsistent with what the Court said in Gottshalland Buckley.The flip side is, if you don't allow the fear ofcancer damages now, but allow fear of -- but allow the plaintiff to come back after he or she contracts cancerand allows as a part of that recovery for fear of cancer,then the people who are most seriously injured are madewhole at the appropriate time in the appropriatecircumstances.QUESTION: Mr. Phillips, I know your light ison, but there's a second question and you haven't eventalked about it, the joint and several liability --MR. PHILLIPS: The apportionment.QUESTION: -- the apportionment.MR. PHILLIPS: Thank you, Justice O'Connor.QUESTION: And I wasn't sure that there was anysupport in the statute or in the evidence at trial herefor how some apportionment should have been made. MR. PHILLIPS: Well, the quick answer onapportionment is that in , it was absolutely clearthere was several liability. You're only liable for theinjuries you cause. That's embodied, I think, in thestatutory language that says that the railroad isresponsible for the injuries while employed. Thatlanguage has been interpreted as recognizing we only payfor the things that we cause.The Third Restatement --QUESTION: Cause in whole or in part?MR. PHILLIPS: But that goes to the question of what you need to show a jury in order to get a negligenceclaim to the jury in the first instance. It doesn't sayyou're -- you're liable for the entirety of the damages inwhole or in part.QUESTION: It could be read to say that.MR. PHILLIPS: It could, but I don't thinkthat's the most natural reading of that particularlanguage, and I don't think it's an appropriate one wherethe policies in , and the policies of the law underthe Third Restatement quite clearly say that you shouldapportion, because that is the fair way in order to ensurethat a defendant is not -- does not -- is not forced toovercompensate.QUESTION: It's really a question of who should bear the burden of bringing in those other people. Ifit's joint and several, you could join other people. Onyour view, you say to the plaintiff, "Unless, plaintiff,you bring in all these other people, you can only get asmall piece from any particular one."MR. PHILLIPS: Right, and I think the statuteand the existing common law clearly suggest that the rightanswer is that because you've reduced the burden of theplaintiff in order to get into court and to be able tomake a case, the quid pro quo for that ought to be thatyou only hold the railroad liable for the amount of the injury it caused, and here it is not contested that -- andMr. Butler's case is the prototype example of it -- he hadthree months of exposure when he was with Norfolk &Western, he had years of exposure with others. That isa reasonable basis on which to apportion for cause, andthat -- and no one has contested that.I'd reserve the balance of my time.QUESTION: Very well, Mr. Phillips.Mr. Salmons, we'll hear from you.ORAL ARGUMENT OF DAVID B. SALMONSON BEHALF OF THE UNITED STATES, AS AMICUS CURIAE,SUPPORTING THE PETITIONERMR. SALMONS: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court:Respondents may not recover damages under FELAfor their anxiety about developing cancer in the future aspart of their emotional injuries from the separate diseaseof asbestosis. The overwhelming majority of courts thathave considered the relationship between asbestosis andcancer have concluded that they are separate diseases thatresult in separate injuries to the plaintiff --QUESTION: May I ask in that --MR. SALMONS: -- and give rise to separate --QUESTION: May I ask this question? I reallywanted to ask it of Mr. Phillips, but his time was running out. Would you draw a distinction between a case in whichthe asbestosis actually is a cause of cancer, as opposedto a case like this, in which asbestos and cancer --asbestosis and cancer -- are the result of a common cause?MR. SALMONS: Your Honor, I do think there wouldbe a difference between those two instances. Here, theCourt can look to the evolving tort law principles incases involving asbestos, where the overwhelming majorityof courts have concluded they are, indeed, separatediseases with no causal connection between them only inthe sense that they both stem from the same exposure --QUESTION: -- that in thisMR. SALMONS: -- to asbestos.QUESTION: that in this case, then, if it were true, which I understand it is not, that the asbestosisitself is a contributing cause to cancer, that then therewould be liability?MR. SALMONS: Well, Your Honor, I think that --you know -- the Court may still need to look at whattype -- what exactly the causal connection is -- and itwould still need to take into account both the text andthe purposes of FELA, and -- and in particular, theconcern --QUESTION: But taking all those things intoaccount, what do you do in a case in which the cancer is a result of the asbestosis rather than the result of acommon source? MR. SALMONS: I -- I do think, Your Honor, thatif -- that if the cancer, in fact, results directly fromthe disease of asbestosis, then that puts you moredirectly in the category of pain and suffering damagesthat would be available traditionally in tort law, andthat probably would be recoverable there, but --QUESTION: Why --QUESTION: Isn't that a jury question? Do weknow for sure that the one does not lead to the other?MR. SALMONS: I do think, Your Honor, that thisCourt can look to the experience of courts that haveconsidered the relationship between the two diseases, and have adopted legal rules to govern the disposition ofthese claims, and have concluded that they are separatediseases that result in separate injuries and give rise toseparate causes of action, and I think this Court can lookto that and -- and -- and can conclude that as a matter oflaw both because of --QUESTION: Do the respondents agree with you onthat factual point?MR. SALMONS: That the majority of courts haveconcluded --QUESTION: No -- no, that -- that asbestosis does not lead to cancer, but rather, is -- is produced bythe same -- by the same cause that produces cancer?MR. SALMONS: Your Honor, I do think that therespondents have taken that position in this case. Onpage of their brief, they say that the relationshipbetween asbestosis and cancer is two-fold.First, the asbestosis confirms the extent andseverity of the initial exposure to asbestos which, ofcourse, under Buckley is not a separate injury or impactthat can give rise to liability under FELA, and second,that they both -- both the cancer and the asbestosis wouldresult from the same negligent conduct of the defendant,but I do not read respondents to be alleging in this Courtthat there is any causal relationship between cancer and asbestosis in terms of asbestosis actually turning intocancer.There may be a correlation, but you know,that -- the reasonableness of the fears is really not thequestion.QUESTION: The question I had is, if there is acausal correlation, if percent of the people who havecontracted asbestosis as a result of exposure to asbestoswill also contract cancer, why does that matter? That'swhat I didn't quite see.MR. SALMONS: I -- I think -- QUESTION: Because I understand -- I think youdo correctly state their -- they agree with you on thefacts on this.MR. SALMONS: Yes, Your Honor. I think that interms of -- of the existing tort law principles that, asthis Court noted in Gottshall, and even prior to thataround the time of the enactment of FELA, that pain andsuffering damages are limited to those damages that flowdirectly from the injury that allows you to sue, andthat --QUESTION: But both of those cases were a self-standing claim of emotional distress. It wasn't pinned toany existing injuries.Here, the difference, and at least as portrayed by the judge who made it part of pain and suffering, isyou do have an injury, you have the asbestosis, and one ofthe elements of damages is pain and suffering, and this isincluded in pain and suffering. At least that's the waythe judge saw it, as distinguished from Buckley andGottshall, which were self-standing claims of emotionaldistress not tied to any preexisting injury.MR. SALMONS: Yes, Your Honor, that is the waythe court below approached the question. We think theproblem with that is that, as the overwhelming majority ofcourts that have considered the issue of the relationship between the diseases have concluded, they are separatediseases that result in separate injuries and separatecauses of action, and the test of FELA --QUESTION: But doesn't it matter what form --I'm familiar with one of those cases, and that was thequestion --MR. SALMONS: Yes, Your Honor.QUESTION: -- when does the statute oflimitations start to run when you get the virulent form ofcancer? Does it begin to run when you got the asbestosis,because that should have tipped you off and you shouldhave sued then?The answer in that context, and there are manycourts that say that cancer is a separate claim, is not necessarily what it should be in this context.MR. SALMONS: We do think it is instructive,however, Your Honor, and that's particularly true becauseFELA provides for liability -- to any person sufferinginjury while employed -- for such injury, and we think,consistent with the text of that statute, which limits theemployer's liability to the injury that's actuallysuffered, and not the fear of suffering a future -- injuryin the future -- that the rule we are propounding today isthe most consistent with that text and the most consistentwith the purposes and -- and policy considerations this Court articulated in both Gottshall and Buckley, and inparticular --QUESTION: You did say -- you said in your briefthat it's a question of not whether, but when, becausewhen you get cancer, if you get cancer, you get thedamages for past, present, and future pain and suffering,but that's not quite right, is it, because you are leavingout the category of person who has asbestosis and nevergets cancer, which will be most of these people? Thosepeople -- for them, it is a question of whether, not when,right?MR. SALMONS: It is true, Your Honor, thatpeople who now have asbestosis and fear getting cancer inthe future may never get cancer. In fact, the overwhelming number of them won't get cancer --QUESTION: And then they --MR. SALMONS: But --QUESTION: -- they never -- they can nevercollect for this alleged fear.MR. SALMONS: That is true, Your Honor, andthat's also true for the snowmen of Metro-North that wereat issue in Buckley. The Court -- this Court did not say,though, their fears were not reasonable. In fact, thecourt of appeals in that case had found that they were.What this Court said was, they didn't fit within the common law categories that allowed recovery becausethe exposure itself was not an impact or injury, and ourposition is that while the asbestosis gives them anability to sue for their injuries related to thatasbestosis, they cannot reach back to that initialexposure and recover the damages that were precluded inBuckley, namely --QUESTION: But here -- here we've got somethingmore. We've got the proof that this is a serious risk,and that proof consists of the fact that asbestosis has,in fact, developed.MR. SALMONS: That is correct, and they canrecover for all of their harms related directly to thatasbestosis, but our position is they can't recover for their fears of the future disease of cancer --QUESTION: I know that that's your position, butonce we cross that threshold, as we have in this case --the threshold that shows that the fear is, in fact, aserious one, because at least asbestosis has nowdeveloped, why isn't their fear of cancer just asreasonable whether that fear rests upon the fact that in percent of asbestosis cases, the asbestosis progressesto cancer -- which isn't true -- or, on the other hand, inthe same percentage of asbestosis cases, cancer will alsodevelop as a result of the common cause for which the employer is liable?Why is the fear any less reasonable in either ofthose cases?MR. SALMONS: Your Honor, with respect, we don'tthink the question is whether their fears are reasonable,but their question is whether their fears are recoverableat this time.QUESTION: Well, I know that, and one of thequestions we want to know in determining whether recoveryis possible is whether the fear is reasonable.MR. SALMONS: And we do not --QUESTION: One threshold test that we all agreeon is, the fear has at least got to be confirmed by somephysical manifestation. Okay, we've got this here. Once the physical manifestation is shown, why isreasonable fear -- why should reasonable fear -- not beenough for recovery, whether the causal connection goesfrom asbestosis to cancer, or common cause to cancer?MR. SALMONS: Your Honor, we think that one ofthe primary reasons why it should not be enough -- thatreasonableness of the fear should not be enough in and ofitself -- even assuming for a moment that the statisticsthat are at -- that were in evidence here are, in fact,sufficiently conclusive to draw those assumptions -- Imean, I do think it's important to remember that this Court in Buckley referred to these same types of figuresas being uncertain and controversial, and I think thatthat description is probably still true here.But the purposes and policies of FELA, whichthis Court recognized in Buckley, and in particular thefear that plaintiffs with relatively minor injuries nowwill come into court being drawn by the opportunity to getfront-loaded, significant damages for future harms, willend up frustrating the system, and will end up hurting theplaintiffs that in fact develop cancer later, and I thinkthat this case implicates those policies and concerns ofFELA and tort law generally just as much as was the casein Buckley, that the vast majority, the number of peoplethat will actually get cancer in the future is relatively low, and there is a significant risk --QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. Salmons.MR. SALMONS: Thank you.QUESTION: Mr. Lazarus, we'll hear from you.ORAL ARGUMENT OF RICHARD J. LAZARUSON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTSMR. LAZARUS: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court:The only issue raised by the first questionpresented in the cert petition is whether the trialcourt's jury instruction correctly described the legal standard for when a physically injured plaintiff canrecover for related emotional distress injury, and thesufficiency of the evidence and the jury's application ofthat legal standard to the evidence at trial is not one ofthe questions presented in this case, and it is quiteclear that the --QUESTION: Well, the question presented doesn'tspeak in terms of the instruction, as I read it.MR. LAZARUS: No, but the question poses a purequestion of law, and that is whether, when you have aphysical injury, what the relationship has to be betweenthe emotional distress and the physical injury, and ourargument, Your Honor, is that under traditional tort law,it is not required that the emotional stress immediately accompany the physical injury; that it have its ownphysical manifestations; that it be severe.Tort law, as this Court explained in the Metro-North case, approaches the recovery for emotional distressinjury from a categorical perspective, and tort lawcategorically distinguishes between two differentsituations.First, the situation where one has a stand-alone claim for negligent infliction of emotional distresswhere the emotional injury itself the element of theoffense, the injury element, and second, the so-called parasitic damage context, where there is a thresholdphysical injury which supplies the essential element, andwhat many courts do is they impose very significantlimitations on the recovery of emotional distress in thestand-alone context such as physical manifestations,immediacy, and severity, but --QUESTION: And you say this case is not broughton this theory?MR. LAZARUS: The jury instruction is reproducedon page of the joint appendix.QUESTION: Where do we -- ?MR. LAZARUS: on the joint appendix, andthat jury instruction makes it absolutely clear thatrespondents were entitled to recover for their reasonable fear of cancer as part of their overall damages only tothe extent that that fear related to -- the Court'swords -- related to proven physical injury, and there isabsolutely no merit to petitioner's argument --QUESTION: Do some jurisdictions go furtherthese days and require there be a reasonable causal nexus?MR. LAZARUS: Your Honor, almost nojurisdictions do. There are really only two cases --QUESTION: I thought there were a few that did.MR. LAZARUS: But almost all the cases go theother way, and the reason, Your Honor, is because -- there's some confusion in petitioner's argument here aboutwhat "pain and suffering" means. If you look at the juryinstruction very closely on page , the trial judge inthis case was very careful, knew exactly what he wasdoing.In the paragraph right before the "fear ofcancer" paragraph, he refers to the entitlement of aphysically injured plaintiff to recover for physical andmental pain and suffering. In the next paragraph, wherehe refers to reasonable fear of cancer, he refers only tomental pain and suffering, and this is a longstandingdistinction in tort law. Physical pain and suffering isthe kind of pain which is immediate and intimatelyassociated with the bodily injury.QUESTION: All that is true, what you say, but Ifelt the question was open, and the reason that I thoughtit was open is because probably I once learned that thisarea of the law arose out of an English case wheresomebody is watching a coffin fall off in an accident, andthe rule was that you can't recover unless something hitsyou, but what you were recovering for was the coffin, andthe pain and suffering that a family member would feel.MR. LAZARUS: Right.QUESTION: That was immediate, directly relatedto the accident, and quite clearly present and measurable. MR. LAZARUS: Right.QUESTION: This is the kind of thing that is notimmediate. It's a fear of something way in the future. It is very hard to determine whether it is right or wrong,and it has no causal relation to the physical thing, andtherefore, I thought that it's open.MR. LAZARUS: Your Honor, it's really --QUESTION: You want to say -- I'll look it up,but if you were to say it's absolutely not open, I mean,they have, you know, lots of briefs where they've made apretty good case it's at least open.MR. LAZARUS: It's open and shut.QUESTION: Oh, all right.(Laughter.)MR. LAZARUS: If one looks to the Restatement ofTorts, section , which ascribed -- well-settled, widelyapplied, and it describes the circumstances when aphysically injured plaintiff can recover for relatedemotional distress injuries. It fits this case, and itincludes in comment c, it expressly denies the validity oftheir physical manifestation requirements --QUESTION: No. I mean, you saw their replybrief, and their reply briefed that is that the underlinedphrase -- the italicized phrase -- or from conduct whichcauses it, is not really what's at issue. What's issue are the words in that called "emotional disturbance," andthe question is, what kind of emotional --MR. LAZARUS: Yes.QUESTION: -- disturbance, and I think thattheir argument is, which if I put numbers on it is, eachone of us in this room has in chance that we will dieof cancer, and the difference between us and a plaintiffin this case is that he has a in -- in -- in --wait -- We have in , in and he has in , and whatthey're saying is, I think, that the difference between a in chance of dying of cancer, and a difference of in chance of dying of cancer is intangible -- hard tomeasure in anyone's psychology. Nobody really makes suchdistinctions rational, and therefore don't open this up to juries awarding large amounts of money.MR. LAZARUS: Your Honor, one really can't inthe beginning start to entertain their evidence thatthey've introduced which wasn't part of the trial recordin this case. The trial record --QUESTION: No, I don't think their evidence isrelevant.MR. LAZARUS: Right.QUESTION: I would say this is a question that'sbeing put to us as a matter of law.MR. LAZARUS: Right. QUESTION: And it is up to us to look at the numbers.MR. LAZARUS: Right.QUESTION: And in reaching those numbers I gaveyou, I've assumed everything in your favor. That is, it'sreally -- because you're a railroad and not the kind ofthing that was involved in the studies you cite -- itcould be a lot less than what I say, but it's not going tobe more.MR. LAZARUS: Well, actually, it may well bemore, but let's put that aside. What is quite clear, YourHonor, as this Court explained in the Metro-North case, isthat just because there are background risks, that doesn'tmean that one can't have a reasonable apprehension based on an increased risk.For instance, it is percent sure, YourHonor, that every one of us in this room will die. Wehave a background risk. But the fact that someone throughnegligent conduct causes us a physical injury whichincreases our risk of dying sooner does not mean we canrecover for that.And the place to look in the Restatement ofTorts, Your Honor, to see that this is a classic thingthat one can recover for, if you look to section , youlook to comment c, and then it referenced comment -- it referenced Restatement section , and Restatement -- andit says that when you have a physical injury, then ittriggers the whole panoply of emotional distress injuries,and section of the Restatement of Torts describes whatis encompassed by "emotional distress," and comment edescribes how it goes, as always, to fear, anxiety,apprehension of future consequences.QUESTION: Mr. Lazarus --QUESTION: Well, Mr. Lazarus, what if you put aphysician on the stand, and the physician says, this manwas years old when he was injured, he ordinarily wouldbe expected to live to be , but as a result of thisinjury he's only going to live to be ? Now, is that thesort of thing that's compensable?MR. LAZARUS: Well, Your Honor, I don't know. I don't know -- I don't doubt, Your Honor, that in tortlaw, that there is a level of probability of risk belowwhich one can say as a matter of law there's not areasonable apprehension. I don't think, though, in thiscase, first of all, that there's any question thatstatistics support a reasonable apprehension, but evenmore importantly, the question whether they do or don't inthis case is not one of the issues here. The issue iswhether that's enough. The issue is whether you --QUESTION: Mr. Lazarus, may I ask you on that point -- let's for a moment not think of ourselves aslawyers. Here are two people, the person in Buckley, thesnowman, and the person who has asbestosis, both of thosepeople may have a real fear of cancer, and we may findthem credible witnesses.I thought in the Buckley situation that oneconcern is, it's too easy to make this up, and for somepeople facing that risk, they'll say, "Well, yeah, I mightbe run over tomorrow, it doesn't bother me." Isn't thereal problem that the fear of something, when that feardoesn't have the physical manifestation, that these thingsare too easy to make up, too uncontrollable, and I franklycan't see the difference from the point of view of asufferer between the person in Buckley and the person here.The person in the Grand Central Station casecould say "I had the same fear that that person has. Hehasn't proved his fear any more than I proved mine, whyshould he recover and not me?"MR. LAZARUS: Well, Your Honor, because as theCourt, I think, explained quite well in Buckley, the waytort law approaches the question is on a categorical basisand distinguishes between those with physical injury,because if you have that threshold physical injury, thatgives you the corroborating evidence you need that you have, now, a legitimate plaintiff -- a legitimateplaintiff -- who has established their cause of action. You're not adding new cases to the docket, and even moreimportantly, as the court has --QUESTION: Well, what's more legitimate -- andthere was no doubt about the conditions under which thepeople worked in Grand Central Station -- that they wereexposed to asbestos, that they should have been told muchearlier about their exposure, and they must have been veryangry that they weren't told.MR. LAZARUS: Well, Your Honor, first of all,those who have asbestosis, as the trial record in thiscase referred, those with asbestosis have a statisticallyhigher significance of getting the other kinds of cancers, because what -- it's not just a mere exposure, unimpaired,and what the asbestosis requirement does by requiring thatkind of serious physical injury is, as everyoneunderstood, and the rail industry argued in Metro-North,it dramatically limits the number of --QUESTION: Well, is there --MR. LAZARUS: -- possible plaintiffs.QUESTION: Mr. Lazarus, is their increasedchance of cancer because they have asbestosis, or becausethe asbestosis originates from their exposure to asbestos,and it's the exposure to asbestos, not the asbestosis, that will cause cancer?MR. LAZARUS: Your Honor, we do not know, and noone knows, whether the asbestosis itself transforms itselfinto cancer.QUESTION: Well, I -- then you do challenge thestatement by your opponents that asbestosis itself cannotchange into cancer?MR. LAZARUS: No, Your Honor, their ownexperts --QUESTION: Well, no, now, wait a minute --MR. LAZARUS: Yes. Yes. I --QUESTION: -- I asked you a question. What'sthe answer?MR. LAZARUS: -- I do. I do challenge that. QUESTION: You do challenge that?MR. LAZARUS: Their own expert, Your Honor, onpage of the joint appendix, Dr. Renn -- theirexpert -- testified on page that one could notcontract lung cancer from exposure to asbestos until onehad asbestosis.We're willing to admit that the science is moreunclear that asbestos -- whether it actually transformsitself or not, we don't know, and we don't think as amatter of law it's necessary. It was their expert attrial who testified that actually to get lung cancer from asbestos exposure, it was a necessary prerequisite tofirst have asbestosis. We think --QUESTION: Well, can I ask you one other --QUESTION: That question wasn't put to the jury. I mean, the fact is that the jury was not required to findthat the fear was a fear that the asbestosis would turninto cancer.MR. LAZARUS: That's absolutely right, YourHonor. We -- and we think that was not an error in thejury instructions. There's many cases out there -- let merefer to this one case, a case they cite in their replybrief on page --QUESTION: Why wouldn't that be error? I mean,the instruction does say that a plaintiff who's demonstrated that he's developed a reasonable fear ofcancer related to the proven physical injury from asbestoscan be compensated for the fear.MR. LAZARUS: Right, and it has to be related tothe proven physical injury, and it was in this case.If I can give the example --QUESTION: But it's so -- in the sameinstruction the court says, you cannot award damages forcancer or any increased risk of cancer.MR. LAZARUS: Right, Your Honor, and that'swhere the court got it actually -- QUESTION: Which is so contradictory.MR. LAZARUS: No. No, it's not, Your Honor. What the court is doing here is exactly what courts do whoadopt the separate disease rule which says, you can onlyrecover for your present injuries now, and you can'trecover for future injuries. The cancer itself, or therisk, is a future injury.QUESTION: I was going to ask this. What if oneof these -- if you prevail, and then one of theseplaintiffs develops cancer, I assume he can go in and sueagain?MR. LAZARUS: That's right, yes, for the cancer.QUESTION: All right. Is there some kind of adiscount now for the fear that he --MR. LAZARUS: No, no, just like there areseparate causes of action for assault and battery. Thoseare two different injuries. The apprehension of somethingis a separate injury, and for these plaintiffs -- therespondents -- it is a current --QUESTION: So the fear that you're going to dieof cancer is compensable before you get it, and it'scompensable again after you get it?MR. LAZARUS: No. No. The fear would not be --the cancer would be --QUESTION: Oh, I thought that the -- you can recover for the fear in both cases under your theory.MR. LAZARUS: I -- sorry, I wasn't -- if you'verecovered once, you aren't going to be allowed to recoveragain.first --QUESTION: So there would be a discount.MR. LAZARUS: Yes. If you'd brought theQUESTION: All right. So then your first answerwas, you changed it from --MR. LAZARUS: I'm sorry. I thought yourquestion was whether they could recover for cancer in thesecond one. I didn't understand you were referring to --QUESTION: Do we have cases in the law where yougive discounts for the first verdict?MR. LAZARUS: Your Honor, I'm not sure. I don'tthink this issue has come up, but I don't think it's a barto the recovery here.If I can refer to the radiation burn case thatthey referred to on page of the reply brief --QUESTION: Well, but it indicates that maybe therecovery now is problematic.MR. LAZARUS: No, Your Honor, it's notproblematic, because we have a present injury, and whereyou have a present physical injury and you have a presentemotional injury, an apprehension based on that, those are two types of injuries.QUESTION: Well, don't you think that emotionalfear ought to be one that is reasonable?MR. LAZARUS: Yes.QUESTION: And a causal nexus there between theasbestosis and the fear?MR. LAZARUS: Well, Your Honor, we do thinkthere is a causal nexus --QUESTION: There should be, shouldn't there?MR. LAZARUS: We -- but we do think there's acausal nexus here, and under the Restatement of Torts, allright, there are two different possible causal nexus undersection of the Restatement. We actually think both ofthose are met, and that is, we think that the fear is caused by the physical injury. It's also caused by thesame negligent conduct, but that is also a sufficiency ofthe evidence question, and what they are positing here iswhat the legal standard should be for physically injuredplaintiffs and the recovery for related emotional stressharm.An example, the Anderson case they cite onpage of their reply brief -- a radiation burn case --which they say is distinct from this case. It's exactlythe same as this case.QUESTION: I think you're right, and the dog bite cases support you, and the radiation cases supportyou, and if it's cut-and-dried, as you say, then you win.But if, when I look at all this stuff again, andI come to the conclusion -- if I were to come to theconclusion that it wasn't cut-and-dried, then I'm muchmore at sea, and I want you to see why.One was the reason I gave, which is the riskproblems, and the other, which is driving that, and I'djust like you to comment on this, is -- is my concern thatif we begin to compensate people for fear of small changesin risks when the law doesn't -- is open on the point --what will happen in the asbestos cases, and that was theirinitial point, is that we will -- there's $ billion atstake, and the fund will run dry.When the people who really get the cancer comeinto court, the cupboard will be bare, and I think that'sa serious policy problem, and it's worrying me quite alot, and that's why I keep coming back to the open natureof this.MR. LAZARUS: Your Honor, I think that the wayto address that kind of issue is not to change decades ofsettled tort --QUESTION: Well, I say, is there any answer --MR. LAZARUS: Yes, there is.QUESTION: -- other than the law that is clear --MR. LAZARUS: There is. There is --QUESTION: Yes.MR. LAZARUS: -- and what can be done in a caselike that is, the defendant in that case can request averdict form which requires the jury to allocate out, andthat would allow a judge and an appellate, if appropriate,to review, and jury trials --QUESTION: Yes, but --MR. LAZARUS: -- trials, it happens all thetime.QUESTION: -- that isn't automatic in mostjurisdictions, Mr. Lazarus. You can't say "I want aspecial verdict," and if the court says "No, I don't think I'll give you one," that's pretty much the end of it,isn't it?MR. LAZARUS: Your Honor, they didn't requestone here, but that is the proper way to address the issue,and that's why you see --QUESTION: I don't understand what you'resaying. What -- allocate out -- how does that -- themoney is still paid to this claimant, so that when theperson who actually has cancer comes into court, thiscompany is bankrupt.MR. LAZARUS: No, but Your Honor, it addresses Justice Breyer's concern, and that is, it allows you tohave a record upon which one can make sure that the juryhasn't awarded a disproportionate amount based upon thisone element, that you don't have the tail wagging the dog.QUESTION: But what's disproportionate?QUESTION: What's disproportionate?QUESTION: Suppose you take one plaintiff who isvery nervous, very apprehensive, and for that person thisincreased risk --QUESTION: Right.QUESTION: -- is going to be much moreaggravated. Then, take another person who's subject tothe same risk, but has a thicker skin and says, "Well,I'll take it in stride."MR. LAZARUS: Well, Your Honor, it's areasonable apprehension. This is why there's an objectivestandard which applies to emotional recovery which doesn'trequire the physical. It has to meet an objectivestandard.If someone has a very, very thick skin in tortlaw and they, in fact, as a result of that, don't sufferdamage, then they haven't suffered damage. If they have avery, very, very thin skin, and they suffer a lot ofdamage, then they don't recover everything --QUESTION: When the person gets cancer -- MR. LAZARUS: -- unless it's a reasonableapprehension.QUESTION: If a person gets cancer -- and I takeit you agree with the Government that such a person couldget past, present, and future anxiety as part of pain andsuffering, but suppose that person had earlier hadasbestos, and then brings his claim for lung cancer,couldn't -- if you prevail today -- the defendant say"Well, at least for the apprehension in the past, you knowyou're precluded, because you could have brought thatclaim when you got asbestosis"?MR. LAZARUS: Your Honor, that might bepossible. That is not an issue which has been addressedhere before this Court, and I haven't looked at the issue preclusion there between the two.What is clear is, if you have a current physicalinjury --QUESTION: It would be claim preclusion.MR. LAZARUS: Yes, right, and it's not an issuewhich has been briefed here, because I think that when youhave a case like this with a present physical injury, andyou have a present emotional injury based on that, or asthis Court has actually said in Metro-North, related tothe physical injury, that's sufficient.I would like -- if -- to address the second issue, with the Court's --QUESTION: Before you do, may I ask one --QUESTION: Let me ask one -- please.QUESTION: Just one quick question. Do youagree with Mr. Phillips' appraisal of the facts as -- weshould assume that the fear of cancer was the majorelement of damages?MR. LAZARUS: No, Your Honor. All one has toassume here is that there was sufficient evidence that areasonable jury could give some money based on fear ofcancer, not that they had to, and not, certainly, thatthey gave $. million, just sufficient evidence that areasonable jury could have given a dollar, or some money. That's all that would be necessary.The second -- sorry.QUESTION: Was there testimony here thatplaintiff A had heavy, or severe asbestosis andplaintiff B had mild, and was it based on any lung X-raysto show that this person's very badly infected and theother wasn't?MR. LAZARUS: Yes, Your Honor. There is --there's lots of record evidence in this case to establishthe asbestosis and how there may have been differentdegrees of asbestosis.QUESTION: All right, and since that's dependent on dosage, why isn't this a case in which we can apportioncausation?MR. LAZARUS: Your Honor, for very simple areason. The first reason is that we think that FELAitself on its face actually directs there to be joint andseveral liability when you have single injuries. That'sour first argument, that FELA on its face answers thequestion, or that FELA provides that the railroad shouldbe liable, quote, "for such injury or death resulting inwhole or in part from the negligence of the railroad."QUESTION: Correct me if I'm wrong, is it aprinciple of tort law that if causation can beapportioned, that the injury is -- that there is thenseveral liability on that tort --MR. LAZARUS: Your Honor --QUESTION: -- or am I wrong about that?MR. LAZARUS: No. The background principle ofthe common law of torts here is that there are -- if thereis a single injury, then there is joint and severalliability unless there's a reasonable basis forapportionment. Our threshold argument --QUESTION: And since asbestosis is peculiarlyrelated to dosage and exposure, why isn't that a properground for apportionment here?MR. LAZARUS: Assuming that FELA doesn't answer the question, let me answer it based upon the common law. Because the plaintiff has the burden -- sorry, thedefendant -- petitioner has the burden in that case toestablish ) what the doses were, and ) what the doserelationship was, and the one thing we know here, theprototype example that Mr. Phillips referred to isMr. Butler, and the fact is that Mr. Butler apparentlyworked for three months exposed to asbestos forpetitioner, and for many, many years exposed to asbestosat other workplaces.While we don't know what the dose relationshipis, Your Honor, we do know for the record the one thingthe dose relationship isn't is time. One can't compareone time to another. Let me tell you why we know that. On page of the joint appendix, their expert testifiedthat one is far more likely to contract asbestosis fromhigh concentrations over a short period of time than lowconcentrations over a long period of time, and there's areason for that.As Dr. Brody explains on page of the jointappendix, the lungs can naturally rid themselves of thefibers at the low concentrations. It's only at the highconcentrations -- the macrophages. It's only at the highconcentrations that the lungs can't rid themselves of thefibers. While we have no idea how low the concentrationlevels were at these other workplaces, we do know how highthe concentrations levels were at petitioner's workplace,because Mr. Butler testified on page of the jointappendix that during those three months, he worked in thelocation of petitioner's workplace where the asbestosconcentrations were at the highest. Mr. Butler testifiedthat he worked in the room where the engines were strippedof their fibers, and more fibers were placed on.He testifies on page he looks at these samepictures, which were trial exhibits -- they're reproducedin our brief. He looks at these pictures and he says,yes, that's the kind of room I worked in. This is and . Yes, that's the kind of exposure I faced. QUESTION: Well --MR. LAZARUS: So we know he had the very highconcentrations --QUESTION: Well now, how do we know that? You're saying he worked in the place with the highestconcentrations so far as the railroad is concerned, buthow do we know how that compares with where he workedelsewhere?MR. LAZARUS: Your Honor, we have no idea, andthey -- because they never introduced or sought tointroduce any evidence, but what we do know is that very low concentrations -- here we can turn to the Rand report,which they filed with this Court -- lodged with theCourt --just two weeks ago. The Rand report and thetestimony of this case makes absolutely clear that in lowconcentration employment centers, at low concentrationexposures, one is very unlikely to have any kind ofphysical injury, asbestosis or cancer ever develop, whichis why there are hundreds and hundreds of thousands ofplaintiffs, many of which come from low exposure, which,as the Rand report makes clear, is not likely to lead toany kind of disease. We have no idea how low it was here. We know how high it was here.I have no doubt, Your Honor, that petitionerwould have been very hard-pressed at trial to actually show what the doses were, and to show what the doserelationship is, but what I do know is, whatever theirreason was at trial for never trying to introduce thisevidence, and they never -- if you looked at their motion,where they made the motion for this jury instruction, theynever even remotely suggest what the basis forapportionment would be, but whatever their strategicreason for doing that at trial, what is absolutely clearis they are not allowed in the first instance to come tothe United States Supreme Court and proffer newspaperarticles, magazine articles, selected journal articles and try to argue that there is a reasonable basis forapportionment, or they're entitled to a remand to litigatea issue which they failed to litigate in the firstinstance.The simple truth, Your Honor, is that at trialin this case the respondents established all of theiressential elements of their negligent cause of action. They established their physical injury, and they receiveda jury award which certainly, compared to the jury awardsthat I see mentioned in the amicus briefs, is a jury awardwhich seems relatively modest, and certainly a jury awardwhich on its face doesn't suggest that there was someoutrageous amount given for reasonable fear of cancer.QUESTION: May I just ask you, you say there's no evidence of what the degree of exposure in other areas,and so forth and so on. Didn't they make any offers ofproof with, or did they just the prove the time that theyworked --MR. LAZARUS: They really just proved the time. They -- we know the nature of the work, but what we don'tknow, Your Honor --QUESTION: Well, but then that would be aquestion of the weight of that evidence, rather thanwhether they preserved the point.MR. LAZARUS: Well, Your Honor, I'm not -- they never offer a basis of apportionment. We'd have to know,and the evidence at trial made clear, to know the dose anddose relationship you'd have to know the air flow rates,the pathways of exposure --QUESTION: At what point in the trial did itbecome clear, by a ruling of the trial judge, that theycould not rely on the exposure in other areas?MR. LAZARUS: Your Honor, they were not deniedthis opportunity at trial to introduce the evidence withrespect to the non-railroad employment, and you can seethat because they actually did do some cross-examination,they did try to introduce the evidence of three months,they did try to refer to the other workplaces, they couldhave tried to introduce more evidence.QUESTION: Well, why was that relevant ifthere's joint liability?MR. LAZARUS: Well, we thought it wasirrelevant, Your Honor, but they were clearly thinkingabout the possibility of requesting an apportionmentinstruction, but the fact is, they never laid out areasonable basis.If you look at the memorandum --QUESTION: Oh, but they did request aninstruction, didn't they?MR. LAZARUS: They did request the instruction, but --QUESTION: So the point was preserved.MR. LAZARUS: Right, but the trial court wascorrect in denying the instruction because they had notmet their burden of proffering a reasonable basis forapportionment, and in the absence of that evidentiarybasis, the trial court was absolutely correct in denyingit. This was a jury verdict, Your Honor, this wasreached.QUESTION: Oh, but that theory, then, is thatseveral liability would have been appropriate if theevidence were sufficient?MR. LAZARUS: Well, no, Your Honor. Ourthreshold argument is that it would not -- asbestosis, this is a classic individual injury. There are manycourts who have talked about this, and they said, well, intheory, asbestosis is dose-related.QUESTION: With respect, Mr. Lazarus, isn'tyour -- the bottom line in this argument that this issimply not an issue in the case, because they didn'tprovide a basis?MR. LAZARUS: Yes, that's absolutely right.QUESTION: So you're saying, forget it.MR. LAZARUS: That's right. They had the burdenand they simply didn't meet their burden. QUESTION: And they say you had the burden.MR. LAZARUS: Well, but it's quite --QUESTION: It seems to me that argument goes tothe weight of the evidence they offered, rather than tothe -- your legal position. I may be missing something.MR. LAZARUS: Well, Your Honor, no, they have toas a matter of law, right, proffer some kind, and herethere's absolutely nothing --QUESTION: Well, but they did proffer -- if Iremember it, they did proffer evidence as to the time thatthese people worked in other areas where they were exposedto asbestos, didn't they?MR. LAZARUS: There is some evidence --QUESTION: But you're saying that's not enough. MR. LAZARUS: There's some evidence as to that,but in fact if you can look to their instruction theydon't even say what -- that time is the relevant factor,and I think the evidence at trial shows that time is noteven close to establishing what the dose relationshipwould be. This is very complicated.QUESTION: But aren't you really saying thatunless there's an abuse of discretion on the part of thetrial judge in refusing to send this to the jury, based onwhat you've just described, insufficiency of evidence ontheir part, that it's not in the case for us? MR. LAZARUS: That's absolutely right, Your Honor.Thank you.QUESTION: Very well, Mr. Lazarus.Mr. Phillips, you have two minutes remaining.REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF CARTER G. PHILLIPSON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERMR. PHILLIPS: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice.I want to be absolutely clear about theapportionment in this case. We put in an instruction onapportionment based on a reasonable basis followingJustice Kennedy's analysis of the law, which says ifthere's a reasonable basis to apportion, you do that.The trial judge did not reject that on the basis of insufficient evidence. What he said at page ,volume of the transcript is, if you've got a joint tortfeasor, that tort-feasor is liable for all of theinjuries. He said it as a matter of law. It's joint andseveral liability. There is no apportionment. That's theruling we challenged. That's the legal issue before thisCourt.to --The second question, then, with your leave, isQUESTION: Well, but should we adopt yourposition if it's as difficult to show this separate causation as your brother argues?MR. PHILLIPS: Well, Dean Prosser said from dayone it's always going to be difficult to apportion, butthat's no reason not to have the jury undertake toapportion. There are lots of decisions that juries makethat are very hard to make, but the better rule is toapportion, because that's the fair outcome that will arisein these cases.With respect to the fear of cancer damages, thekey to this case, it seems to me, is just how big agatekeeper function the fact of asbestosis can be, andmy -- the argument is, asbestosis is extraordinarily easyto diagnose. There are currently , cases under FELAin West Virginia. Every single one of them involves a claim of asbestosis. Every single one of them will besupported by an expert.What you get is, that's not a gatekeeper. Thosecases are going to come in, and then you're going to haveexactly the kinds of evidence you had in this case, I'mafraid of cancer, give me whatever you think is the rightnumber. That is the essence of unpredictable andunlimited damages. This Court declined to allow thatunder FELA in Buckley. It should decline to allow thatunder FELA in this case as well.If there are no questions, I'll reserve -- CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: Thank you,Mr. Phillips. The case is submitted.(Whereupon, at : a.m., the case in theabove-entitled matter was submitted.) 