 IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XBORDEN RANCH PARTNERSHIP AND ANGELO K. TSAKOPOULOS, Petitioners :::v. : No. -UNITED STATES ARMY CORPS OF :ENGINEERS, AND ENVIRONMENTAL :PROTECTION AGENCY. :- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XWashington, D.C.Tuesday, December , The above-entitled matter came on for oralargument before the Supreme Court of the United States at: a.m.APPEARANCES:TIMOTHY S. BISHOP, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf ofthe Petitioners.JEFFREY P. MINEAR, ESQ., Assistant to the SolicitorGeneral, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; onbehalf of the Respondents. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC C O N T E N T SORAL ARGUMENT OF TIMOTHY S. BISHOP, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioners JEFFREY P. MINEAR, ESQ.On behalf of the Respondents REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OFTIMOTHY S. BISHOP, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioners PAGE th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC P R O C E E D I N G S(: a.m.)JUSTICE STEVENS: The Court will hear argumentin Borden Ranch against the Corps of Engineers, No. .Mr. Bishop, you may proceed.ORAL ARGUMENT OF TIMOTHY S. BISHOPON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERSMR. BISHOP: Justice Stevens, and may it pleasethe Court:The Army Corps of Engineers has a considerablenumber of hurdles to clear before it may regulate activityas a discharge under section . Congress specified insection that a permit is required for an activity thatis an addition of a pollutant to a navigable water. Thataddition -- that added pollutant must be in the form of fill material or dredged material. And the addition mustcome from a point source. Those statutory terms, we believe, have a coreof plain meaning that excludes a farmer and rancher, deepplowing in a seasonal wetland, to prepare the soil fordeep-rooted crops. A deep plowing of that sort does notadd fill material or dredged material, and it doesn'tinvolve a point source. And so it --QUESTION: Well, did -- did the district courthere find that the deep ripping tracked material into th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC wetland areas from the adjacent uplands?MR. BISHOP: Only as to of the -odd wetlandsthat are involved. QUESTION: And as to those three?MR. BISHOP: And that -- that is not -- and thatwas not the basis of the judgment below or of the penalty.In the summary judgment ruling, the court found,as a matter of law, that plowing that moved material thatwas already in the wetland -- and this is page of thepetition appendix -- was a violation. When it came tohearing evidence, for that reason the court did not focuson the question of whether material was added to thewetland, as the Government says, from -- from outside.The penalty in this case was based on rips,passes, of the plow across the wetlands. The court didnot distinguish, in any of those cases, as between passesthat brought outside material into the wetland and thosethat didn't. It simply was not a focus. This was not the basis of the Government'sargument below. This is entirely novel. It wasn't thebasis of the district court's decision in this case. Itwasn't the basis of the court of appeals decision, if youlook at page of the court of appeals decision.Furthermore, we believe that --QUESTION: Even so, if we agreed that that's a th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC proper basis --MR. BISHOP: That would not be a basis on whichyou could affirm here because that was not --QUESTION: But we'd have to -- we'd have toremand for that to be considered?MR. BISHOP: And we believe that a remand thatfocused on that issue would show, first of all, that therewere on some occasions a minimal amount of material thatwas moved into the edge of the wetland, just on someoccasions, a minimal amount that would be well below theamount of fill that would have fitted at that time with onthe -- under the nationwide permit so that no individualpermit would be required in this case. It would also show that the -- that the deepplow was raised on many occasions before the -- it moved from upland into wetland, and there's an example of thatdescribed at page of the petition appendix. And finally, on page of our reply brief, wecite a California Ag Extension pamphlet which describes ingreat detail the nature of the soils and the plowing inthis area, and what it -- what it describes is that when adeep plow passes through this sort of clay soil and itthen rains, that the -- that the -- the clay pan seals upagain and that because of the -- the nature of the claypan, there really is no homogenization during the plowing th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC process between the soils above and below the pan.QUESTION: What -- what is the relevance ofthat? That is, I'm thinking of --MR. BISHOP: Well, the Government is --QUESTION: Let me explain how I'm thinking ofthis case. Suppose that you went in the middle of LakeErie with a big punch, and you punched a hole in thebottom and all the water ran out. Would that violate thisact?rivers --MR. BISHOP: No.QUESTION: No. MR. BISHOP: That would regulated under theQUESTION: Okay, it wouldn't violate the act.There's nothing. All right. Now suppose you went to Lake Erie and you hadabout , dump trucks or great big rakes and you filledup Lake Erie. Would that violate the act?MR. BISHOP: That would fall under section .QUESTION: Absolutely, okay. So now what youhave is you punch a hole in the bottom and you bring somedirt in. All right? So -- so --MR. BISHOP: We bring no --QUESTION: -- you brought in some dirt and youpunched the hole. Now -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. BISHOP: We bring -- we bring a little dirtin at the margin. QUESTION: So your argument is because you onlybrought a little dirt and you were mostly interested inpunching the hole, you fall outside the act.MR. BISHOP: That's right. And that --QUESTION: That's it. Okay. Well, I don't knowif we're interested in the purpose of the act and youviolate it even a little bit, why don't you lose?MR. BISHOP: No, no. Well, the purpose of the-- no. The purpose of the act, Justice Breyer -- thereare multiple purposes of this act, but the purpose topreserve the Nation's waterways is achieved through a -- adual or perhaps a tripartite process. There is a section NPDES permit that is regulated by the Federal Government. There is a section fill and dredgeauthority that is -- is -- that is handled by the U.S.Army Corps of Engineers. But that is only part of thepicture. The Government through -- the -- the Congressthrough section set up a process which is mainlyadministered through the States, although withconsiderable Federal assistance, for -- for regulatingnonpoint source pollution. If this activity, this plowingactivity, is not regulated under section , it is, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC nevertheless, regulated by the States as nonpoint sourcepollution. And so the goal of the act to -- to protect theNation's waters is not one that depends on the FederalGovernment, and in fact, we think here that to give abroad reading to the powers of the Army Corps of Engineerunder section by straining these very -- these --these terms, these series of terms that Congresspredicated section jurisdiction on, that that wouldcontravene Congress' other goal in section (b) which isto preserve and protect the primary responsibilities andrights of the States. QUESTION: Mr. Bishop, will you explainsomething to me? And -- and -- on a most basic level, ifwhat the concern was it was to preserve wetlands and not have them converted into dry lands, what difference shouldit make if the conversion comes about through redeposit,shaking all the stuff up, turning it upside down, but whatyou're ending up with is dry land rather than wetland, orif you take a little sludge from someplace else and put itthere? MR. BISHOP: We don't think it's permissible,Justice Ginsburg, to protect wetlands by ignoring theplain language of the statute because Congress, throughusing the terms that it did, imposed limits on Federal th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC power that preserve and protect, as (b) says, the powerof the States to regulate nonpoint source pollution. Andso this --QUESTION: So when you say --MR. BISHOP: -- so it --QUESTION: -- you say, well, nonpoint is --that's another issue, whether this is a point source,whether the --MR. BISHOP: We don't believe this is a pointsource. We don't believe it involves fill material --QUESTION: But that's -- that's another issue --MR. BISHOP: -- or dredged material. QUESTION: -- than whether -- I thought you weresaying this is a redeposit of the same material. Therefore, it can't come under the act. MR. BISHOP: It's -- it's a redeposit of thematerial. Therefore it is not an addition --QUESTION: Yes. MR. BISHOP: -- of material to the wetland.QUESTION: Is there any redeposit that could be?MR. BISHOP: Well, the -- the -- Judge Silbermanin the National Mining case said that the terms additionin section and also the concept that a permit isfor the -- is for the deposit of material to a specifieddisposal site, that read together, those show that th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Congress intended that there be a geographic or temporalseparation between the dredging activity or where thematerial comes from and where it is deposited. So, youknow, if a bulldozer digs up large quantities of materialfrom one side of a wetland and moves them to another, youknow, perhaps it is reasonable for the agency in acircumstance like that to say that there has been anaddition. Even in a case like Deaton, where you havedredging, the dredging takes soil out of the wetland. Atthat point it becomes a defined pollutant under section which is dredged spoil, something that Congress saidwas a pollutant. And if is that is sidecast, then, youknow, certainly there is far more movement of the soil andfar more disturbance of the soil in a situation like that. It's lifted out of the wetland and it is moved elsewhere.But what we're dealing with here is a plow, adeep plow, that goes through the soil and that pushes itto the side and -- and moves it, but it stays in contactwith the soil all around it and it's simply moved in smalldegrees. QUESTION: Is there a difference between deepripping and deep plowing?MR. BISHOP: They're the same. They're the samething, Justice O'Connor. And -- and chiseling, which is th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC mentioned as a form of plowing in the regulations, is thesame thing too. It's just -- it's exactly the sameimplement. QUESTION: Well, what -- what is the effect ofsection which says nonprohibited discharge of dredgedor fill materials, that the discharge from normal farmingand activities such as plowing are not considered, Iguess, as --MR. BISHOP: Well, Justice O'Connor, our -- ourtake on this case is that we never get to (f), thatthis activity is not a discharge to begin with because itdoesn't satisfy the requirements set out in (a). It isnot -- it does not involve a point source. A plow is nota point source. This is not fill material. It's notdredged material. It is not an addition. Therefore, itis not discharge.QUESTION: So, you think we never get there.MR. BISHOP: That's -- that's our argument. QUESTION: But if we were to disagree with you,because of this marginal shifting of soil from the uplandsto the wetland, then we'd have to look at that? MR. BISHOP: If -- well, that would be -- thatwould be an issue, but as I say, there's no finding as tothat sort of a -- that sort of an addition. And I don'tbelieve -- Justice O'Connor, let me be clear that that -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC the -- the movement of material into the margins of thewaters here would not be a discharge. Even if it is anaddition, it still has to qualify as fill material and asdredged material and as a point source. And a plow simplyis none of those things, and I hope I get a chance toexplain why I don't think it's a point source.QUESTION: Why -- there's something called abackhoe that has been labeled a point source and abulldozer that has been labeled.MR. BISHOP: Right. QUESTION: Why not a ripper? MR. BISHOP: Well, let me explain. The languageof the statute is that a point source is a confinedconveyance, a confined, discrete conveyance. And we donot believe -- and if you look at -- and then are examples set -- set out in the statute. And this is at a of theaddendum to the Government's brief, which is a littleeasier to handle than our petition appendix. A pointsource is a discernible, confined, discrete conveyance. And then there are a series of examples. Now, the Government's regulations don't definepoint source. In fact, they don't even use point source. The -- the regulations don't include the term, pointsource, and they're not in the memorandum to thefield in which the -- the Government purported to explain th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC why deep plowing is covered by . But we think that these terms and these examplesshow one important characteristic of a -- of a pointsource, that it confines the material that it conveys.QUESTION: Why? It doesn't -- I mean, why is atruck? Does a truck fall within it? I mean --MR. BISHOP: A dump -- a dump --QUESTION: -- what I do is I have my truck. Ifill it up with guck and I move the guck over to the lakeand I dump it in. MR. BISHOP: A dump truck --QUESTION: Now, is the truck a point source? MR. BISHOP: A dump truck confines the materialand it conveys it. QUESTION: Well, it doesn't say confined anywhere in the statute. MR. BISHOP: Yes, it does. QUESTION: Which word --MR. BISHOP: It says a discernible, confined,and discrete --QUESTION: Not confining. Not confining. QUESTION: It's the conveyance that is confined,not the material. MR. BISHOP: Well, that's the Government'stheory, but -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: Well, but isn't that what the plainlanguage says? MR. BISHOP: No, no. QUESTION: It says confined conveyance, notconfining conveyance.MR. BISHOP: Well, I don't think that's right. I mean, first of all, the Government has never adoptedthat -- it's just come up with that -- that argument forthe purposes of this litigation. It's not in anyregulation. QUESTION: Well, we're coming up with it now.(Laughter.) QUESTION: And it's a pretty darned good onetoo. (Laughter.) MR. BISHOP: Well, I -- I don't think it is,Justice Scalia, if you look at the examples that are --are given because the characteristic of all of thesethings is that they confine the material --QUESTION: Well, what is rolling stock?MR. BISHOP: It's defined in Webster's as -- asthe -- the trucks of a trucking company or --QUESTION: Fine. So -- and it doesn't, however-- suppose I have a brilliant idea. Instead of a truck, Iwill take a giant rake, feet across, and rake the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC mountain into Lake Superior. All right. Now, is -- is --that doesn't fall within this just because I thought ofthis brain storm of using this giant rake instead of atruck? MR. BISHOP: No. I think the -- the commonsense question is, does this vehicle confine material. There are some --QUESTION: I would say the common sense questionis whether or not it's exactly the same for all intentsand purposes of this statute as a truck.MR. BISHOP: Well, but -- the -- there is a listof examples --QUESTION: Well, isn't -- isn't your pointwhether it's a conveyance?MR. BISHOP: Well, that is another point. QUESTION: The rake is a conveyance. It ismeant to move the dirt down, and I suppose your point isthat the -- the plow is not intended to convey the dirtanywhere except up and down. Some of it may accidentallygo sideways, but that's not what the plow is for.MR. BISHOP: Well, I think that that is a veryuseful term for us, conveyance. Conveyance certainlygives the idea of something that is intended to movematerial from one place to another. And a plow is not. Aplow is intended -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: Well, why -- why will not up and downsatisfy?MR. BISHOP: The -- because we're not -- I mean,we're not in this business to convey a material anywhere. We're in this business --QUESTION: No. That's not your purpose. QUESTION: Isn't a plow a --QUESTION: That's not your purpose. But that isnecessarily what you are doing by the activity that youengage in, isn't it? MR. BISHOP: Justice -- Justice Souter, I don'tthink that in any normal use of the term conveyance thatyou would include a rake or a plow that just pushesmaterial a short distance, perhaps a matter of inches orfeet.QUESTION: Well, let's -- let's assume that I --I'm accepting Justice Breyer's suggestion and the rakewould be a -- would -- would be a point source herebecause it conveyed. If that is so, why should there be,in effect, a -- a -- an excluding analysis for the -- forthe ripper that moves the stuff up and down?MR. BISHOP: Well, I mean, that's my argument,Justice Souter. I believe that the terms confined andconveyance in the statute in their plain meaning and asthey are elucidated through all of these examples that are th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC given, that they all have characteristics in common. Oneis that they confine the material. The other is that theyconvey it. And I don't believe that that is an aptdescription of a plow shank, a -inch wide plow shank,pulled through the soil and -- and the movement that --QUESTION: Well, you -- you could say that itdoes convey. It -- it conveys mostly, almost entirely, upand down and maybe a little bit sideways. But to theextent that it does convey a lot up and down, which is itspurpose, it hasn't made any addition. That would be yourpoint for the up and down. MR. BISHOP: Well --QUESTION: But you're still stuck with thesideways, it seems to me. (Laughter.) MR. BISHOP: Well, and we don't -- we don'tthink that the -- the plowing here satisfies any of theseterms. So we don't think that it's a point source, buteven if it is a point source, we certainly don't thinkthat it's an addition because there is no addition to thewetland unless something is added. And all we are doingis moving soil, be it up or down or sideways, small -- tosmall degrees. And that doesn't -- nothing is coming intothe wetland from the outside. QUESTION: Well, isn't -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: -- the argument that -- that it's a-- it's not adding material. No new material is added,but as I take the Government's argument, it's convertingsomething that wasn't a pollutant into a pollutant when this deep ripper churns up the earth and deposits therocks and the soil and the biological material on the top.MR. BISHOP: Justice Ginsburg, the -- thestatute, section , applies to two types of pollutantonly, and that's fill material and dredged material. Dredged material is material that is dredged out of thesoil, the sort of thing that a backhoe does, dredging ahole and lifting it up out of the soil. The agency'sregulations define dredged material as material that isexcavated or dredged from the wetland. The district court didn't find that there was any dredged material involved here, and we don't believethat any reasonable reading of the term, dredged material,or of the regulation that talks about excavating anddredging from the wetland could describe the activity ofdeep plowing. That leaves fill material. Fill material in itsplain meaning is material that is -- is used, is moved into fill a gap or a cavity. It was defined in theregulations at the time as material that was used for theprimary purpose of replacing an aquatic area with dry land th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC or changing the bottom elevation. As Justice Breyer haspointed out, if anything took water out of this wetland,it is the activity of punching the hole in the clay pan sothat it drains out. We are not interested in filling thiswetland and there was no purpose here to -- to use thematerial to replace wet areas. And in fact, it's quite irrelevant to a farmerand rancher if the topsoil remains wet, and in this areait does, as a matter of fact, remain wet because the claypan seals up and during the rainy season, there's --there's water on the surface. It's just not our purposeto do that. QUESTION: You -- you were quoting the -- theregulations as to the -- the definition of -- of dredgedmaterial, but the definition in the statute of pollutant includes rock and sand.MR. BISHOP: It does, but the -- but thepollutants -- the pollutants have to be in a particularform in order to be covered by , and that form is fillmaterial or dredged material. So it's not enough to saythat there is rock or sand involved here. It has to be inthe form of fill material or dredged material which is whyyou have these regulatory definitions of those twoconcepts.QUESTION: Where do I get that from? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. BISHOP: In -- in section (a) on page aof the Government's addendum. The permits are issued forthe discharge of dredged or fill material into thenavigable waters at specified disposal sites. The -- theregulations then define on page a and a fill material,discharge of fill material, and dredged material anddischarge of dredged material.QUESTION: So the definition -- for presentpurposes the definition of pollutant is irrelevant.MR. BISHOP: It is -- I'm not sure whether it'sirrelevant because under section , if you don't get apermit, then what you're charged with violating is section(a), which is on page a. And that talks about thedischarge of any pollutant. But the basis on which this case has been litigated is that we needed a (a) permit not a permit, and that is a permit for the addition of fillmaterial or dredged material.QUESTION: Is -- is -- what is your definition? Because I think that's actually not a bad point. You saidit's a conveyance. This is not a conveyance. Thedictionary, I guess, defines conveyance as a -- as a meansof conveying, and it says conveying is cause to pass fromone place to another. So the Government says, well, we'llaccept that. And of course, if you take that literally th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC from the dictionary, then this is a conveyance because itis a means of conveying. You say it couldn't be thatbroad. I have a better definition, more consistent withwhat the paragraph means, and that better definition iswhat? MR. BISHOP: It's the -- well, clearly theGovernment has some room here, but what we do say is thata conveyance does not describe that no one -- no onelooking at a deep plow would say that's a conveyance. Itis not an object --QUESTION: Well, except Webster would seem tosay that it is a conveyance because it fits thedefinition. And now, so you don't like that definition. I understand. I -- I see where -- in general terms, I seewhere you're going, but I -- I'm asking you if you have a definition that would help you short of Webster'sdefinition. MR. BISHOP: Well, I'm not sure that Webster'scovers this situation. A conveyance in common parlance issomething that will move material that is intended toconvey, to transport. I'll have to find the page of ourbrief.QUESTION: Is it --QUESTION: I must say I never thought a plow wasa conveyance either. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. BISHOP: A means -- I mean, this is what Ihave from Webster's Third. This is on page of our replybrief. A means or way of conveying, carrying,transporting, serving as a means of transportation. Imean, there's the idea in there that it's a purposefulactivity --QUESTION: You -- you want to read it as --MR. BISHOP: -- to convey the material toanother place. And -- and that's not just want a plowdoes. A plow just moves through the soil pushing it tothe side and turning it over and cutting through the soil. I -- I just don't think any common sense or reasonablemeaning --QUESTION: Is that different from --MR. BISHOP: -- would treat that as a --QUESTION: -- the propeller that was involved inthe Florida case? MR. BISHOP: In -- in MCC?QUESTION: Yes. MR. BISHOP: The propeller in MCC -- this is ahuge propeller on a barge in a very shallow navigablestream. The propeller cut through the -- the material atthe bottom of this stream, picked up large quantities ofit with every -- with every -- at each stroke, andpropelled it out of the -- out of the waters. Whether or th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC not that is --QUESTION: Is that what it was designed to do?MR. BISHOP: No, that's not what it was designedto do. And I think --QUESTION: It wouldn't meet your definition. QUESTION: But isn't that exactly what happenshere, that the deep -- deep rigging or whatever you callit -- the -- it breaks up the clay. There's a -- a bodyof clay, and then the -- the broken-up clay finds its wayinto the water. MR. BISHOP: Well, yes, it gets pushed. It doesget pushed to the side within the -- within the waters.QUESTION: So it's the exact parallel to theother case. MR. BISHOP: MCC -- no. MCC is a suspect decision, and I'm not sure that it fits the definition ofthe point source or dredged or fill material. I mean, itis more like dredging. But, you know, if a point source is a confinedconveyance, our -- our contention is that it musttransport -- purposefully transport material from oneplace to another and it must confine it --QUESTION: The key to your argument, if Iunderstand it, is the purposeful thing. They didn'treally intend to do this. It's just a byproduct of what th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC they're doing, and therefore there's --MR. BISHOP: No. That's -- that's not the key,Justice Stevens. The key -- the key is equally that thisis to pick up and move material to another place. Wedon't want it here. Let's move it. And it's just not anapt description of what plowing does. But I don't want --QUESTION: Would give us -- would you give us a-- your best comprehensive description of what this kindof so-called plowing does? Does it leave the clay down atthe clay layer and simply break it up? Does some of theclay find its way up in the course of this ripping? I'mnot sure that I know how it works.MR. BISHOP: Well, I think primarily whathappens is this is a very dense clay layer that the --they have -inch shank cutting through it. And I thinkthe most apt description is that it cuts through the clay.This clay is heavy. It is not -- there's not a lot ofhomogenization, as the -- as the Ag Extension pamphletthat I cite in the reply brief says. There's not a lot ofhomogenization at the lower levels from below the clay toabove or from the clay above because of the nature of thesoil and because of the nature of the piece of equipment. This is not like a moldboard plow that has a curved shankthat pushes the soil up. It's a cutting device that is th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC intended to allow water to hydrate the roots and to allowthe roots room to grow. If I could reserve the balance of my time.QUESTION: Mr. Minear.ORAL ARGUMENT OF JEFFREY P. MINEARON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTSMR. MINEAR: Thank you, Justice Stevens, and mayit please the Court:The Clean Water Act placed no regulatoryrestrictions on the vast majority of acreage thatpetitioners sought to subdivide and sell in this case. The act required only that petitioners obtain a Federalpermit for those few acres of -- of wetlands that areprotected under the Clean Water Act. And those wetlandsare concededly protected. The question of whether or not these are waters of the United States is not in this case.Petitioners who are --QUESTION: And the -- the legislation doesn'trequire that these wetlands be -- be left fallow. You --you could use them agriculturally and -- and they wouldstill be wetlands and you wouldn't be violating the act.MR. MINEAR: That is correct. That is correct. Rather, the focus here is on the activities --QUESTION: Could be used for normal farming andplowing presumably without a permit. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. MINEAR: They could be under the normalfarming exemption. And we have three questions here, so I'd like totry and proceed logically from the question of whetherthere was a discharge of a pollutant, the first questionon which we spent most of the time discussing this so far;the question of whether that discharge would be covered bythe normal farming exemption; and then finally, thequestion of civil penalties. On the question of whether there was a dischargeof pollutant -- pollutants, the Clean Water Act makesclear that a discharge is defined as any unauthorizedaddition of any pollutant from any point source. If youmake such a discharge, under you have violated thelaw. You have two -- provides -- there are two exceptions to . You can obtain a permit for normalpollutants under or you could obtain a dredge and fillpermit for fill and dredged material under . QUESTION: So is a -- is a point source adefined, discrete conveyance? Is that how the statutedeals with it?MR. MINEAR: The -- the statute states that apoint source is a discernible, confined, discreteconveyance. QUESTION: And is a plow of this type such a th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC conveyance?MR. MINEAR: Yes, it is, and let me describe.QUESTION: Why? MR. MINEAR: Let me describe.QUESTION: Because that's a point ofdisagreement between you and your opponent here. MR. MINEAR: That is correct, Your -- YourHonor. The equipment we're talking about here is abulldozer, a Caterpillar D bulldozer, that is about feet tall and about feet long and typically carries a-foot blade on the front of it. It weighs about ,pounds. In this particular application, this earth-movingapplication, it carries what's called a deep ripper orshank behind it. Mr. Bishop says it's inches wide. Theunderstanding from my experts is that it's actually morelike a foot wide. But the shank is about to feetlong. The shank penetrates deeply into the ground andpulls up the material behind it. The idea here is todisgorge the clay material that lies beneath the surfaceof the soil so that the --QUESTION: It doesn't just go in and come out. It --MR. MINEAR: It pulls --QUESTION: -- in your view moves the material? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. MINEAR: Yes, and in fact the districtcourt --QUESTION: To the side or forward or something? MR. MINEAR: Yes. The district court opinionstates on page that material is moved both horizontallyand vertically. QUESTION: Yes, but if -- so long as thematerial that -- that moved a couple of inches or even acouple of feet horizontally is moved from within thewetlands to within the wetlands, you haven't addedanything to the wetlands, have you? MR. MINEAR: No. I disagree with this, YourHonor, and let me make a point here that I think is veryimportant to the entire dredge and fill permit program. Dredged material by its very nature is typically moved from one area of a wetland and placed elsewhere. Think of it when we talk about dredging a river and we'redredging a channel. We are taking the material out of oneportion of the waterway and putting it into another. Sothat's -- this idea of redeposition has been a part --QUESTION: Well, that's easy to see, a dredgethat takes a quantity of material and physically moves itto another place. Here your opponent says this goes inbut it comes up and down. It doesn't, in fact, move thematerial to a different spot. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. MINEAR: No. I think that Mr. Bishop wouldagree that once the -- what happens is once the plowpenetrates into the -- the earth, it stays beneath theearth and it's pulled up. And what happens is that clay-- that clay pan that is beneath the surface is raised tothe top, together with other material.QUESTION: He says that's not the purpose. Hesays the purpose is -- it doesn't do that. It just breaksit up. I mean, maybe some of it come, but that theoperation is not intended to mingle the clay with the --with the topsoil. Just to break up the clay. I mean,this is apparently a dispute between the two of you.MR. MINEAR: And it was one that was resolved,with respect, Your Honor, by the district court which madeclear that the purpose here is to break up the clay pan. And in the process of doing that, it moves the earth bothhorizontally and vertically. QUESTION: Well, he doesn't deny that. MR. MINEAR: Yes. And that's sufficient. QUESTION: But -- but you're -- you'redescribing the moving it -- of it -- of it at leastvertically as being the whole purpose of the operation. And -- and he says that's not the case, that what theywant to do is break up the clay and a little bit may --may, indeed, come higher in the course of that. But th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC that's not what it's designed to do unlike the kind ofplow you -- I'm used to seeing, you know, that you carrybehind a horse and it's -- it's shaped in such a way thatindeed the soil comes up. This is not that kind of aplow.MR. MINEAR: But, Your Honor, the purpose hereis not what matters. It's what happens in the wetland. Is there an addition? And as I said, there's an additionfrom three different perspectives. QUESTION: Well, I suppose there's an additionif I'm walking through a wetland that -- you know, that --that happens to be dry at this time a year and I kick -- Ikick a dirt ball and it moves to another part of thewetland. I guess -- I suppose that's an addition too,isn't it? MR. MINEAR: The regulations make clear -- EPAhas made clear that those types of --QUESTION: Lucky for me my foot is not aconveyance. Maybe it is a conveyance. I don't know. (Laughter.) MR. MINEAR: The regulations make clear that deminimis movements of this type are not of concern to theagency. Rather --QUESTION: Suppose a person has boots that --and he regularly -- regularly -- people on this farm th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC regularly walk through some poison and it's on theirboots. And they walk further on and, lo and behold, theywalk into the place and poison all the fish. And they dothat on a regular basis. Are the boots considered aconveyance?MR. MINEAR: EPA has indicated that walking,bicycling, driving a vehicle through a wetland is normally-- has -- has de minimis effects and --QUESTION: No, no. I'm trying to ask --MR. MINEAR: Can it be? Can it be in theabstract sense? QUESTION: I'm interested in the question ofconveyance. Are the boots a conveyance where the effectsare not minimal where, for example, it happens regularly,seriously, destroys the fish because they're walking through poisons? Now, the boots are not normally considered aconveyance, but they do, in fact, convey the poison. Aplow is not normally considered a conveyance. A ditchthat you dig to plant roses in is not a conveyance. Butany of those things could in a subsidiary way conveysomething as part of their primary nonconveying objective. Now, I want to know if you consider those subsidiarythings where it is serious to be conveyances.MR. MINEAR: Yes. They meet the statutory th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC definition --QUESTION: Gee whiz, Congress should have said,you know, by conveyance or otherwise then. Why did itsay, you know, it has to be -- it has to be a conveyance?MR. MINEAR: Because although as Justice Breyerexplained --QUESTION: And if a boot is not a conveyance,it's not a conveyance.MR. MINEAR: It is a -- it is a conveyance. I think you -- you need to understand the logic thatCongress applied in enacting the statute, and that was todefine all of these terms quite broadly, understandingthat there would be enforcement discretion. Now, we're not talking about de minimisactivities in this case. We're talking about filling two acres of wetlands in this case. And we're talking aboutactivities that were found to have adverse environmentaleffects. QUESTION: Now, you -- you say filling asthough, you know, they're not going to be wetlandsanymore, but that's perfectly okay. He can make them notwetlands anymore so long as he's doing it by normalfarming. Right? MR. MINEAR: He can --QUESTION: I mean, the evil here is not that th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC this is taken out of our national deposit of wetlands. That isn't the evil, is it?MR. MINEAR: That was the concern that motivatedthese provisions. Congress understood when it enacted theClean Water Act --QUESTION: Well, but Congress exempted normalfarming and -- and activities such as plowing, did itnot --what --MR. MINEAR: Yes. QUESTION: -- from a permit? MR. MINEAR: Your Honor, it did. And I thinkQUESTION: Yes. MR. MINEAR: -- that indicates is that Congresswas aware that plowing was a point source of addition of pollutants. It could have that effect. And for thatreason it created an exemption, the normal farmingexemption. But that exemption itself is limited and theregulations that EPA and the Corps have issued under this-- under this normal farming exemption make clear that theactivities we're talking about here would not be covered.QUESTION: How so? MR. MINEAR: To be sure --QUESTION: How so? MR. MINEAR: The activities that are covered th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC under the normal farming exemption are ongoingagricultural activities, part of a regular farmingactivity, and also activities that ultimately under therecapture provision, first, do not change the use of theland and do not result in converting a wetland to dryland.Now, the agency was charged with responsibilityfor -- for fleshing out the scope of the normal farmingexemption, and it made clear that a farmer who continuesto engage in practices that he's always engaged in,including normal -- normal plowing --QUESTION: And you say here there was a changein the use.MR. MINEAR: Yes. This land --QUESTION: Well, your opponent doesn't want us to reach that exception because he says he wants to reston the fact that, A, it wasn't a point source, that theplow is not a point source, and B, there was no addition.There was simply a redeposit of material in the sameplace. Have you dealt with that yet? MR. MINEAR: Yes. I would like to go back tothat point. We're now back to question and talkingabout the question of addition which is fundamental to theidea of a discharge. Our view is that there were additions from three th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC sources here. First, there was addition by material beingmoved from the upland into the wetland. Counsel statesthat that occurred in only three cases. The recordactually shows that it occurred in at least of the wetlands that are involved here. The district court madereference to it only in those three cases where it was theonly movement of that material. But it's easy to see thatthe three cases that are cited in the district court'sopinion refer to those cases where the ripper passed nextto a wetland but didn't go in and pushed -- nevertheless,pushed soil into the wetland. The same thing would happenin those areas where the ripper actually intruded throughthe wetland as well. So in the case of all of the -- theareas, the areas that were filled, all of them had movement of material from upland into the wetlands. QUESTION: Well, excuse me. I thought youropponent said it isn't an addition because it's aredeposit of material. Have you dealt with that?MR. MINEAR: Yes. The -- in talking about --before when I spoke about the dredged material, about howmaterial is moved from one place to the wetland to anotherplace, that is a regulable redeposit that is covered bythe act. And we believe the Fourth Circuit's reasoning inDeaton is quite persuasive on this. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: I think that's already a stretch. Imean, you know, with that you'll say, well, literallyyou're not adding anything to the wetlands just to movethe -- the mud from one portion to another. But you havethis big dredging operation and it does disturb everythingand you move it. So, yes, I'll go along with you on that.But -- but then, you know, that's not enough foryou. Now we have to generalize from that and say that anymovement of anything within the wetlands is also anaddition to the wetlands. And -- and that brings you tothis case. And I think it is fanciful to think thatanything has been added to the wetlands here.MR. MINEAR: As I said before, Your Honor, notonly do we have redeposits. We also have the materialthat moved from the upland into the wetland. QUESTION: Fine. MR. MINEAR: And we also have material, if I mayfinish --QUESTION: I see that, but -- but not all of thepenalties -- we're going to get to the penalty part. Right? MR. MINEAR: Yes, Your Honor. QUESTION: They were $, for each pass, andit hasn't been established that every one of these passeshad that effect. And -- and he says most of them didn't. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. MINEAR: Before we get to the penalty part,if I could, Your Honor, I'd like to point to one area --other area in which material is moved into the wetland,and that is material that's beneath the clay pan that wassegregated and separated by this impermeable clay pan andinstead was pulled up and put into the wetland as well.QUESTION: Okay. Would you be explicit aboutwhat is implicit in that is, and that is, the definitionof wetland, I take it, is the -- the land area between thesurface and the hard pan, and the area beneath that is notpart of wetland so that if you take material from beneathand bring it up, you are moving into the wetland. Is thatyour definition and what you're saying? MR. MINEAR: Yes, that's correct. QUESTION: So I can mine under a wetland, and --and I'm not disturbing the wetland. MR. MINEAR: You would not be regulated bysection --QUESTION: Is that -- is that the position theGovernment -- the Government wants to take, that you --anything that's under the wetland, you know, go -- go forit? It -- it doesn't -- doesn't involve the wetland.MR. MINEAR: Your Honor, we're paying attentionto the -- the strict language of the statute. The statuteis concerned with additions. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: How far down does a wetland go?MR. MINEAR: We think in this case it's fair todescribe it as going to the bottom of the clay pan becausethat's what's actually holding the water in the area. Inother cases, it might be different. There's vasthydrological variation. In some places wetlands aresustained by the groundwater that comes up from beneath,and so it's very difficult to talk about where the bottomof the wetland would be --QUESTION: You're willing to have us say that inthis case, that wetlands only go down as far as whatever-- whatever stratum holds the water in the wetland, andeverything else is not included. Below that is okay.MR. MINEAR: Well, Your Honor, respectfully whatwe're asking you to do in this case is to recognize that the wetland does go to that clay pan. In other cases itmight well be different. But we need to deal with thefacts --QUESTION: I thought so.MR. MINEAR: Yes, Your Honor --QUESTION: But I -- I think -- I thought youwere saying it does not go below the clay level because Ithought you were making the argument that when you bringmaterial from below the clay level into the wet area, youare moving it into the wetland from outside the wetland. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC So I thought you were making the further proposition thatthe wetland stops at the -- at the clay.MR. MINEAR: In this case that's correct. Butin other cases such as in Riverside Bayview, the case thatthis Court previously addressed wetlands, there thewetland was actually -- was -- received water frombeneath, and it did not have a sustaining clay pan. There's simply variations in the types of --QUESTION: No. QUESTION: How do we view --QUESTION: Never mind. QUESTION: The sustaining clay pad is not partof the wetland you're now -- you're now saying.MR. MINEAR: We're saying that the clay pan is apart --QUESTION: Is part of the wetland.MR. MINEAR: But the area beneath it is not. QUESTION: Well, but he --MR. MINEAR: There's -- there's soil beneath theclay pan that he pulled up. QUESTION: Was he -- was he pulling up soil frombeneath the clay pan? MR. MINEAR: Yes. I think it's clear from therecord that he must have.QUESTION: What -- what about the question I th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC think Justice O'Connor asked? And I think Justice Scaliadid too. At least I'm waiting with bated breath. Thatis, what -- what -- suppose we agree with you that, well,at least the material from the side, at least the materialfrom the bottom was an addition to the wetland, broughtabout by, let's say, this conveyance. All right. Now, what do we have to do with this case? Dowe then have to send it back for a reassessment ofpenalties or what? MR. MINEAR: No. I think you can affirm on thatbasis because those two sources were present with regardto all of the -- all of the -- the wetlands that were --QUESTION: All of the passes?MR. MINEAR: All of the -- all of the wetlandsthat were at issue in this case. QUESTION: Well, he -- he -- I think youropponent said that the penalties rested upon passes orsomething, and I guess they conceded that each one was aseparate violation, which they may regret, if this is therationale anyway. Do we have to have a reassessment ofthe penalty or not?MR. MINEAR: We don't think that a reassessmentof the penalty would be necessary even if you took thisalternative position. And let me say, first of all, thepenalty here was based -- what's in contention is how one th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC calculates the maximum penalty that can be imposed on aparty in one of these cases. And there's a fair amount offlexibility in determining how that might be done. Inthis case, the parties had agreed below that each pass ofthe ripper was, in fact, a violation. The -- the districtcourt then determined the maximum penalty by taking thenumber of passes of the ripper and multiplying it timesthe maximum penalty. But it did not impose that penalty. Instead, it looked to the specific statutory criteria thatgovern the application of the penalty provision. QUESTION: I -- I see that, but I'm still -- I'mwriting the opinion let's imagine. I say, all right, theybrought some guck from the side. That violates thestatute. They got some from underneath the bottom. Thatviolates the statute. Now I'm at the point where the lower court wrotemost of its opinion. What about the stuff that's justsort of muck down at the bottom and it simply turns itover? Now, do I have to answer the question of whetherthat does or does not violate this statute? Do I have toanswer that? Because, after all, it turns -- the penaltyturns on it. MR. MINEAR: I'm not sure the penalty turns onit. We would say that if -- obviously this Court hasdiscretion to determine this -- the types of -- the type th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC of remand it wants to send back. We do think --QUESTION: All right. If I do have to answerit, what do you say to their argument that, yes, if youchurn up a lot and move it, for example, over to the pointwhere the river is running in and dam up the river, that'sone thing. But here all it does is turn it around inplace. And indeed, it doesn't really cause any harm. It's the hole that causes the harm. That's their argumentI think as to that bit. And what do you say as to that?MR. MINEAR: I would say, first, the districtcourt found that there was environmental harm here. Onpage of the petition appendix, it makes note thatthese types of activities did cause environmental harm.With regard to the penalty assessment, I wouldlook to the fact that the -- the district court considered the seriousness of the violation, the bad faithactivities --QUESTION: You haven't quite answered thequestion. MR. MINEAR: I'm sorry. QUESTION: The question was think only of thatlittle bit where the plow blade is taking a bit of muckand turning it over. Now, in respect to that they'resaying, one, it's a small amount. Two, the redeposit ofit has nothing to do with the harm. The harm is caused by th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC the hole. Now, as to that bit, if I have to answer thequestion, what's your response to that argument? MR. MINEAR: My response is that deposit, thatturning over material that's in place, can still causeenvironmental harm that subjects them to a penalty. Imagine if in that muck, in that material, there areentrained heavy metals, arsenic, the types of materialsthat are filtered out through the normal wetland process.QUESTION: And they have added those to thewetlands. MR. MINEAR: They -- they have added those tothe wetland if they've in fact been released from asituation where they're --QUESTION: They were in the wetland before, andthey're still -- and they're still in the wetland. MR. MINEAR: But as the Fourth Circuit explainedin Deaton, that when you take material and you physicallychange its situation, if you change it from an aerobic --an anaerobic environment to an aerobic environment, if youchange its reduction oxidation potential, these are thereasons why we have a permit because we're concerned aboutthese types of activities --QUESTION: I understand. It's well to beconcerned about it, but -- but Congress did use the termaddition -- addition -- to the wetlands. I mean, don't th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC words mean anything?MR. MINEAR: Yes, they do, Your Honor. And as Isaid before, they must have contemplated that an additionincluded a redeposit because otherwise the idea of -- ofregulating dredging and the placement of dredged materialwouldn't have made any sense. Congress was aware of --chose its terms quite carefully. It's just that itunderstood that --QUESTION: Well, it could have meant dredgedfrom elsewhere, couldn't it? MR. MINEAR: That is -- that is possible, butthat is very unusual.QUESTION: Well, if it's possible, it -- itwould mean addition --MR. MINEAR: It seems --QUESTION: -- if it was dredged from elsewhere.MR. MINEAR: It seems unlikely that Congresswould have enacted provisions regulating dredged and fillmaterial that excluded the most common form of dredging,which is to take material from one area of the water bodyand move it elsewhere. In any event, it's important to remember thatthe pollutants we're talking about here include sand,gravel, rock, and biological material. These arematerials that are defined within the statute as th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC pollutants. Clearly Congress recognized the dangers ofmoving these materials about --QUESTION: What about the raking the beach? Youknow, there are people here worried about what you'regoing to do next and say they can't rake the beach infront of their house on the shore of the lake. What aboutthat? MR. MINEAR: The answer again is found in theagency's regulations which make clear that de minimisdisturbances simply do not rise to the level of aviolation.QUESTION: Well, I mean, but they're saying wego out every morning. We like a neat beach and we -- werake it. And I don't know. Are you going to say that'sde minimis or not? They like to rake their beach. They-- they see a lot of muck washed up from the lake. Sothey go out there and they -- they go rake the beach, andthey throw away all the muck. It might be like an oilspill. I don't know. It could be terrible. They cleanup the beach, and they say on your definitions what you'regoing to do is you're going to subject them to permitsevery time they want to stop -- clean up someenvironmental disaster.MR. MINEAR: I think, Your Honor, the questionis have they been subjected to that type of -- of th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC regulation, and the answer is no. QUESTION: Well, they're worried that they mightbe. My question is, if we decide the case the way youwant, are we, in fact, making their worry justified?MR. MINEAR: I do not think so, Your Honor. Andagain, I think it's important to remember that what theagency is fully concerned with are those types of seriousviolations that cause real environmental harm. QUESTION: Well, I don't think Congress wantedthe homeowner to have to worry about raking. I don'tthink they wanted to place the -- the homeowner at the --at the mercy of this benign agency who will say, well,there, there, don't worry. We won't get you for raking. MR. MINEAR: Your Honor --QUESTION: I doubt whether raking was intended to be covered. MR. MINEAR: I think, Your Honor, then if theyhad not intended that there would be enforcementdiscretion exercised by an agency, they wouldn't haveprohibited the addition, any addition, of any pollutantfrom any point source. They made the net that was coveredhere quite broad because they realized there's a vastvariety in the types of environmental harm that might becaused --QUESTION: Maybe they didn't think a rake was a th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC point source as I don't. MR. MINEAR: Your Honor, they -- they have hadample opportunities to change the regulations -- or tochange the -- the terms of the statute. The statute hasbeen revised three times, and they've been quite specificin what they've done. The normal farming exemption is agood example. Congress could have simply exempted allfarming activities from coverage under section or theClean Water Act itself. Instead, it drew a very specificline in this case and it said that we are only restrictingnormal farming activities and we're subjecting them to arecapture provision. That recapture provision applieswhenever the activity, even if it's simply plowing,results in the change in use of the property and alsoresults in a diminishment of the waters of the United States, if it actually fills --QUESTION: Mr. Minear, are you saying that an --an ordinary plow too, like this deep ripper, would be apoint source, but what takes that activity out is that itwould come under the normal farming exemption?MR. MINEAR: That's exactly right. QUESTION: But it is a point source. MR. MINEAR: That is correct. The -- the plowwould be a point source. And this is the reason whyCongress enacted the normal farming exemption. It th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC realized it defined these terms quite broadly, and itwanted to provide sensible exemptions. But it drew limitson those exemptions to avoid covering situations like wehave here where we're not talking about a yeoman's plow,but rather we're talking about a , pound bulldozerpulling a -inch -- -foot long shank through a wetlandarea. I think it's important to remember too that thislawsuit could have easily been avoided. The -- theparties were -- were -- discussed this issue on a numberof occasions, and the Corps made quite clear that theywere not subject to a permit provided they simply avoidedthese small wetland areas, what's -- in the case of theparcels at issue here are about percent of the property. It was easy enough to simply mark these areas and have the contract rippers who came through avoid those areas. Thepetitioners in this case decided not to do that. Theydecided to disregard the law and the fact is that thissuit and years of litigation -- excuse me -- years oflitigation is the result.The fact is that this is a quite sensibleprogram. The Corps and EPA have applied it quitesensibly, and I think that their actions in this case, ifyou look at the record, were really quite reasonable.Now, I would like to touch back, since we've th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC covered a lot of material here, just to go over --QUESTION: Excuse me. MR. MINEAR: Yes. QUESTION: What -- what farming exception isthere? Is there just one or are there several of them?MR. MINEAR: There's one normal farmingexemption. That is contained in section (f) of thestatute, and that is found on pages a and a of our --QUESTION: Okay. But, you see, that's -- that'snot an exception for -- for normal -- it's an exceptionfrom the discharge of dredged or fill material. Right?MR. MINEAR: That's correct. And so what thisdoes is it exempts the party from having to get a section permit for activities that would otherwise constitutedredge or fill activities. And the fact that Congress has chosen to exempt activities, including specificallyplowing, indicates that Congress understood that plowingcould result in a point source addition of pollutants.Now, what Congress additionally did is it -- itstates on the carryover -- there's a number of othermatters that are exempted as well. It indicates thatthese activities are not regulated under section orsection or section , for that matter. But then onthe paragraph on page a, it recaptures those provisionswhen they result in a change of use, when someone, such as th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC in this case, decides to take a ranch and subdivide it andsell it as farmettes. And it -- and even that recaptureprovision only applies when it reduces the reach ofwaters, which is what happened in this case. As the district court found, these waters werefilled. They are no longer wetlands, and the idea thatthese areas are going to be resealed finds no support inthe record. The district court found here that what wereonce wetlands are now orchards. These are not areas thatinclude wetland -- or have wetland characteristics anylonger. I would simply like to touch on -- since we --we have bounced around among the three issues here quite abit, I'd like to simply say a few more words about thecivil penalty provision because I think it's important. The legal issue that's before the Court on thecivil penalty is -- is whether a penalty ought to beassessed in terms of determining the maximum penalty on aper-day basis or on the basis of the number of violationsper day. And the Congress made -- made quite clear thatit wanted the latter to be the basis for determining themaximum civil penalty. It amended the statute in toeliminate any ambiguity that might exist with regard tothe -- to that provision, and it's quite clear that itdoes apply to every violation each day. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Now, it takes into account that some violationscan be continuing and go on for a long period of time. And those are treated as receiving a $, a daypenalty. But in the case of the violations we have here,they all occurred in one day on the basis the districtcourt analyzed the -- the problem. Finally, I'd like to make the point that thedistrict court needs to have a great deal of discretion indetermining how to apply the penalty provisions that areinvolved here. There are different ways to calculateviolations, determine what is the appropriate measure ofviolations, but ultimately the fairness turns on thedistrict court's judgment of the individual penaltyfactors that are considered here. In this case, the court took into account all those factors, including the economic benefits that theparty received by avoiding its legal obligations in thiscase. It's important to remember there are landdevelopers, ranchers, and farmers out there that do complywith the statute, that do comply with the regulations, andthey are, in effect, penalized if in fact people whoignore the law are allowed to go forward and not besubject to a substantial penalty in cases in which theyhave violated the law.In this case the penalties are less than what th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC actually would be necessary to recoup the economic benefitthat they received according to the -- the facts that thedistrict court put forward. The court of the -- or excuseme -- the -- the Government put forward. The districtcourt recognized there was some uncertainty with regard todetermining economic benefit, but nevertheless I thinkchose a very reasonable approach here in terms ofrequiring both a mitigation remedy and also a substantialcivil penalty. If there are no further questions. QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. Minear. Mr. Bishop, you have minutes left.REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF TIMOTHY S. BISHOPON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERSMR. BISHOP: I think it's a shame that the Government has chosen to insert at this level for the veryfirst time this idea that soil came in from outside thewetland. On page of the petition appendix, the -- thedistrict court, in describing what the plowing here did,said that it broke up, mixed, turned over material alreadyin the pools, swales, and intermittent streams. If you turn to page through , where thecourt describes in detail factual findings after hearingthe evidence on the impacts on waters, on only three -- asto three of the jurisdictional features does the court say th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC that there is any fill coming in from outside, and that iswhere there is upland plowing parallel to a drainage thatpushes a small amount of material into the very margins ofthe wetland. And the reason that the court didn't need to getinto this is, A, that it had made a legal finding to beginwith that soil disturbed within a wetland was a discharge,and B, that there was a factual dispute here about theextent to which we have pulled up the plows before weentered across from the upland to the -- to the wetland. And the court didn't want to deal with -- with that. Andit didn't have to under this notion that if you disturbsoil within a wetland, that's an addition. Second, I'd like to point out on page a of the-- of the Government's addendum the regulation about plowing. Plowing means all forms of primary tillageincluding moldboard, chisel, and wide-blade plowing,discing, harrowing, and similar means utilized on the farmto break up, cut, turn over, or stir the soil to prepareit for the planting of crops. QUESTION: What does primary mean?MR. BISHOP: Primary I think means justpreparation. If you -- you have to go to the end and --and see -- it's soil -- to prepare the soil for theplanting of crops. Primary is the initial preparation of th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC the soil. You might contrast that, for example, with --even though harrowing is mentioned here, farmersunderstand that harrowing is actually a secondary form ofland preparation. It's like a large rake that -- thatclears the seed bed for -- for seeding. Primary is thefirst movement that prepares the soil for accepting thecrops.QUESTION: Why do you need the exception for it? That's what puzzles me.MR. BISHOP: Well, you don't need an exceptionfor it. Our -- our position is that it's not a dischargeand so -- and that Congress, if you read the legislative history -- I'm sorry to mention it, JusticeScalia.(Laughter.) MR. BISHOP: But it's clear that they did notintend to reach agricultural activity. The Corps in adispute with the EPA made noises between ' and 'about, well, we're -- we're going to start regulatingstock ponds and -- and ordinary farming activities. AndCongress reacted to that by, as one commentator has said,a provision that reflects the fact that it didn't thinkthat one stake through the heart of the vampire wasenough. This is a belt and suspenders provision. But what it does, as you remarked Justice th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Scalia, is to provide an exemption for agriculturalactivities that are discharges. It doesn't change thedefinition of point source, fill material, dredgedmaterial, addition in any way. It doesn't change any ofthe operative terms in the statute that we think mean thisactivity is not a -- a discharge to begin with. And the exemption also mentions otheractivities, seeding and cultivation and harvesting, thatjust are not -- I mean, these are not discharges. Thesedo not result in the addition of fill and dredged materialfrom -- to the -- to the wetland. And -- and that is whythis structure is what's reflected in the regulations. The regulation on page a. It says plowing, as describedabove -- I mean, they purport to exclude what we did fromthe definition of plowing, but plowing, as described above, will never involve a discharge. It's not adischarge to begin with. You don't get into the (f)exemption. QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. Bishop.MR. BISHOP: Thank you. JUSTICE STEVENS: The case is submitted. (Whereupon, at : p.m., the case in theabove-entitled matter was submitted.) th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC 