 IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XFEDERAL MARITIME COMMISSION, Petitioner : : v. : No. - SOUTH CAROLINA STATE PORTS AUTHORITY : : - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XWashington, D.C.Monday, February , The above-entitled matter came on for oralargument before the Supreme Court of the United States at: a.m.APPEARANCES:PHILLIP C. HUGHEY, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf ofthe Petitioner Federal Maritime Commission.PAUL D. CLEMENT, ESQ., Deputy Solicitor General,Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on behalf ofthe United States, supporting the Petitioner.WARREN L. DEAN, JR., ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf ofthe Respondent. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC C O N T E N T SORAL ARGUMENT OF PHILLIP C. HUGHEY, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioner Federal MaritimeCommission ORAL ARGUMENT OFPAUL D. CLEMENT, ESQ.On behalf of the United States, supporting thePetitioner ORAL ARGUMENT OFWARREN L. DEAN, JR., ESQ.,On behalf of the Respondent REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OFPHILLIP C. HUGHEY, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioner Federal MaritimeCommission PAGE th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC P R O C E E D I N G S(: a.m.)CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: We'll hear argumentfirst this morning in Number -, the Federal MaritimeCommission v. the South Carolina State Ports Authority.Mr. Hughey.ORAL ARGUMENT OF PHILLIP C. HUGHEYON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER FEDERAL MARITIME COMMISSIONMR. HUGHEY: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice, andmay it please the Court:The adjudication of a Shipping Act complaint bythe Federal Maritime Commission is an administrativeregulatory process through which the agency makes findingsof fact and applies its interpretation of the Shipping Actto those findings of fact. This is an exercise ofexecutive power.QUESTION: Well, why isn't that adjudication, ifit applies the law to findings of fact?MR. HUGHEY: Mr. Chief Justice, it isadjudication, but what we're suggesting is that it's notjudicial. It is an executive branch adjudication thatpermits the agency to determine what position it wouldlike to take with respect to potential violations of theShipping Act.QUESTION: But doesn't it involve a decision as th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC to whether this particular respondent before thecommission has violated some provision of the act?MR. HUGHEY: Yes, and in that sense, Your Honor,it is an exercise of ad hoc regulation. It's regulationon a specific and discrete set of facts.QUESTION: Well, you could say the same thingabout a court, that it's not making an -- making an ad hocregulation on these particular facts.MR. HUGHEY: However, Your Honor, in the case ofa court and a decision issued by a court, such an orderwould be self-executing, whereas a Federal MaritimeCommission regulatory determination is not self-executing. Rather, in the event that it's not voluntary compliancewith whatever order the agency reaches at the end of anadjudication, the Attorney General or a privatecomplainant must go into a Federal district court and seekto have that Federal district court compel compliance.QUESTION: Suppose Congress --QUESTION: Well, presumably a State wouldfeel -- would hesitate not to appear because it mightultimately be enforced against the State by the AttorneyGeneral, isn't that right?MR. HUGHEY: Yes, I think that is correct,Justice O'Connor, that a State might --QUESTION: Well, if the State is compelled to th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC participate, does that alter our analysis of it?MR. HUGHEY: No, I don't think so, because theextent to which the State feels compelled by a potentialaction by the Attorney General of the United States iscompulsion that arises from an action of the FederalGovernment itself in the name of the United States.QUESTION: What if a -- is a private plaintiffentitled to take a decision, or order, whatever you wantto call it, of the commission, and seek to have itenforced by a court?MR. HUGHEY: Yes, Your Honor, under the ShippingAct a private plaintiff is permitted to go into a Federaldistrict court --QUESTION: And would the Eleventh Amendmentdefense raised by the State there prevail?MR. HUGHEY: I think that that case wouldpresent a much more significant Eleventh Amendment issue. The Shipping Act provides that the district court hearingand, of course, an action brought by a private complainantmust have jurisdiction of the parties. I would suggestthat to the extent there's any Eleventh Amendment interestthat requires vindication under the Shipping Act, thatvindication can be explored in the Federal district courtproceeding.QUESTION: Do you concede that at least as to th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC reparation, where as I understand it the Government can gointo the district court to seek reparations, only theprivate party, at least as to seeking dollars from theState agency, that the Eleventh Amendment would precludethat?MR. HUGHEY: Well, in its order in this case,Justice Ginsburg, the commissioner finds that it wouldlike to see its reparation orders deemed to be enforceableby a Federal district court, so I can't concede that theywouldn't be, but what I can say is that determination isnot within the agency's jurisdiction. That would be adetermination for the Federal district court to make inthe event that the State instrumentality raised anEleventh Amendment immunity defense to the attemptedenforcement action by the private complainant.QUESTION: Mr. Hughey, why do you assume that ifthis is not judicial action, sovereign immunity doesn'tapply? I mean, I guess whatever sovereign immunity theStates retained upon the formation of the FederalConstitution was the sovereign immunity that existed ininternational law at the time.Can foreign sovereigns be summoned beforeexecutive or legislative tribunals in this country?MR. HUGHEY: I don't know whether foreignsovereigns can be summoned before the -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: Well, but the State sovereignimmunity is just what -- the sovereign immunity that theyhad at international law. That's what -- the EleventhAmendment is just a reflection of the fact that theyretained that sort of sovereign immunity, and I don'tthink it makes any difference that, you know, if the Kingof England summons George Washington, President of theUnited States, to appear before a parliamentary commissionor some royal tribunal instead of an English court. Ithink George Washington would say, you know, go fly akite.(Laughter.)MR. HUGHEY: Well, I think that one can turn tothe text of the Eleventh Amendment itself for someguidance on this issue, Justice Scalia.QUESTION: No, you can't, because the EleventhAmendment is just -- we have held that it represents justa reflection of the fact that the States retained thatsovereign immunity that they had before the formation ofthe Federal Republic, and --MR. HUGHEY: It's a reflection, Your Honor, ofthe immunity from coercive judicial process. I thinkthat's why the Eleventh Amendment begins that the judicialpower of the United States shall not be construed toany -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: That's the conclusion, but whatJustice Scalia's asking, and I think we're interested in,is whether there's any precedent that you could cite, anyhistorical source that says that an administrativetribunal can summon a sovereign before it and render ajudgment.MR. HUGHEY: Well, if I may suggest a differentside to that is that there is no precedent to suggest thatit can't. It's been held by this Court in California v.United States that State-run courts are subject tocommission regulation.QUESTION: Well, but if it's the dog that didn'tbark theory, it seems to me that cuts against you. Ifthis has never been done, that's probably because it can'tbe done. At least we can make that inference.MR. HUGHEY: No, I think it has been done sincethe Shipping Act was first passed, and it simply --QUESTION: I'm not talking about the ShippingAct. I'm talking about other authority. If you're sayingthat the Shipping Act is the precedent-breaking ground, itseems to me that you're then on somewhat a slenderfoundation for your argument here.MR. HUGHEY: This Court held in California v.United States that the Shipping Act as a regulatorystatute applies to all State-run courts. What the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC commission is suggesting, Justice Kennedy, is that thatapplies equally with respect to agency adjudications.QUESTION: But California v. United States, theUnited States was a party, so there was no EleventhAmendment question there.MR. HUGHEY: No, the question I think waswhether the entire statute, which at that time included aregulatory procedure that could be initiated by privatecomplainants, whether the entire statute, which was acoherent regulatory scheme, applied to State-run ports,and that's what the Court held. The Court specificallyreferred to the scheme for regulating waterfrontterminals, not the specific provision within that schemethat permits the United States itself to initiate aninvestigation.QUESTION: But the case itself, United States v.California, raised no Eleventh Amendment problem.MR. HUGHEY: No, that's correct. That'scorrect, it didn't raise an Eleventh Amendment problem,but the issue was whether the regulatory scheme as a wholecould be applied to State instrumentalities, and thisadjudicatory proceeding under the Shipping Act is part ofthat regulatory program.With respect --QUESTION: Is there any -- I mean, it's sort of th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC an interesting question, but I wonder if there are laws orrules which say that the Congress says that any ship,including ships belonging to foreign States that enter NewYork Harbor, will abide by the rules of the New YorkHarbor Authority, and if they don't, you can -- there'ssome argument about whether the pilot comes on orsomething, that ship, including a military ship of aforeign nation, or any other, has to adjudicate thecontroversy in front of the New York Authority or other --I don't know how that works, but maybe you do. I imaginethey are subject to our rules when they come here, andbring their ships into the harbor.MR. HUGHEY: Yes, I would think so, and thecommission does have some jurisdiction over foreign-operated and -- foreign operated vessels that are owned bysovereigns. The commission regulates sally-to-portcontrolled carriers which are vessels that are owned byGovernments. If a complaint were to be filed against suchan entity, I see no reason why the commission would notattempt to assert its regulatory adjudicatory jurisdictionover such a complaint, but I know of no such specific caseunder the statute.QUESTION: How do you get around the, sort ofthe principle of dignity which has been emphasized inevery case, I think, since Seminole, and it's been given a th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC prominent place in the reasoning of the court majority inthose cases, that it's the dignity of the States, and soon, which must be preserved.If under the rule of sovereign immunity whichoverarches the Eleventh Amendment there were indefeasibledignity interests in the adjudication, say, in Seminoleand all of them, doesn't it follow, a fortiori, that thereare dignitary interests that would be offended by haulingthe State in front of an Article I, a purelyadministrative tribunal?MR. HUGHEY: I think I would have two responsesto that, Justice Souter. First is that I understand thedignitary interest to be co-extensive with the sovereignimmunity interest, and second --QUESTION: Well, that leaves the question ina -- unanswered, I guess. The --QUESTION: Justice Souter says the sovereignimmunity interest is co-extensive with the dignitaryinterest.(Laughter.)QUESTION: Let's assume the co-existence. What's the answer to the question?MR. HUGHEY: Well, I think the answer would be,then, that sovereign immunity doesn't apply, that aState's dignity is not offended. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: I certainly agree with you.(Laughter.)QUESTION: Because dignity seems to have beentaken, in fact, as one of the interests to be served bysovereign immunity. Why doesn't the doctrine of sovereignimmunity, why doesn't it apply if applied in those othercases?MR. HUGHEY: Well, I think that the dignity ofthe State is less offended by this type of regulatoryadjudication, given the fact that the agency has nocoercive power to compel anything from the State.QUESTION: I -- it seems to me intuitively justthe opposite. I mean, these are tribunals that -- ifwe're going to talk about dignity, these are tribunalsthat do not have the dignity of the judicial forums thatwere at stake in the preceding cases, and I would havesupposed that the offense to the sovereignty of the Statewas even greater to pull the State before these lessertribunals.MR. HUGHEY: Well, I think the offense to thedignity interest of the State occurs when a State isforced to do something which is the result of a coerciveact. Under the Shipping Act --QUESTION: Everything was fine in Seminole andall of them, until we got to the point of judgment? I th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC mean, is that the way you're trying to cut the argument?MR. HUGHEY: No. I think in cases like Aldenand Seminole Tribe it was the threat of judgment that hungover the United States that was the problem, because inthose cases, if the court entered an order against a Stateit was automatically self-enforcing them.QUESTION: Well, they could have made themappear and just said, you know, we understand that -- justas you're saying, we understand that an order can't issueagainst you, but that doesn't mean you shouldn't show up.We haven't said that in sovereign immunity. We've said the State does not have to appear. It ishauling the State before the tribunal that is the offense,not just the judgment.MR. HUGHEY: Well, I think with respect to yourhypothetical this Court has found the power of coercion orcontempt is the judicial power necessary to the exerciseof all others, so I don't think that a court could justtell a State, well, appear and we're not going to be ableto issue an order against you. I think the fact thatcoercion can result from the judicial proceeding is thepoint of the judicial proceeding and is whatdifferentiates it from this type of regulatoryadjudication.QUESTION: Well, but the court can't say it, but th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC the Eleventh Amendment says it. I mean, and whereupon thecourt can say, look, you know, by reason of your sovereignimmunity, we understand if you show up we can't issue anycontempt judgment, we can't issue a merits judgmentagainst you, but that doesn't mean you don't have to showup. But it does mean you don't have to show up, doesn'tit?MR. HUGHEY: Well, yes, the State can move todismiss any suit that's filed against it in a court, but Istill think that it's the threat of coercive judgmentagainst the State that is the reason that the State can --QUESTION: There is no threat of coercivejudgment. The Eleventh Amendment makes it very clear thatyou can't issue the coercive judgment, but the State stilldoesn't have to show up.MR. HUGHEY: I don't think that analysis shouldapply to this statute, Justice Scalia, because under theShipping Act the agency can -- cannot compel an appearanceby the State. If the State just doesn't show up under theShipping Act, the only way to do anything about that is togo into a Federal district court and seek a court order,and if the agency determines to do that, it then has toask the Attorney General to do so. Under the statute, theAttorney General may, rather than shall, enforce any orderthe commission issued. That is therefore, by definition, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC an exercise of the executive discretion that this Courtfound acceptable in Alden v. Maine.QUESTION: Does the commission have contemptpowers?MR. HUGHEY: No. No, it does not.QUESTION: Well, if it issues its process to aState and the -- like the entity in the present case, andthe entity simply fails to show up, what can it do?MR. HUGHEY: If the entity failed to show up,Mr. Chief Justice, the commission could issue an ordertelling it to show up, but again, that would have to beenforced by a Federal district court, and if --QUESTION: At the behest of the AttorneyGeneral, or --MR. HUGHEY: Yes. Yes. The commission wouldhave to ask the Attorney General to enforce it. Under thestatute the Attorney General doesn't have to, but if hedetermined to do so, he could then go into a districtcourt and try to enforce the order.QUESTION: And what would be the EleventhAmendment situation there, when the commission went intodistrict court to try to enforce its order to requireappearing?MR. HUGHEY: Oh, I would suggest that therewould be no Eleventh Amendment problem there, because the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC enforcement action would be in the name of and by theUnited States.QUESTION: It would be by the United States?MR. HUGHEY: Yes. It would be in the name ofand by the United States. In this case, it would be, forexample, United States v. South Carolina State PortsAuthority.QUESTION: How many agencies have a pattern likethis, where they determine the rules by rule-making, thiskind of adjudication, and a commission-initiatedproceeding?MR. HUGHEY: I know that the SurfaceTransportation Board, which used to be the NSA CommerceCommission, has this authority, and I think that theFederal Communication Commission does, but I'm notentirely certain of that. I would suggest, if I may, thatto uphold the State's claim of Eleventh Amendment immunityin this case will have an adverse effect on the regulatoryscheme that the Congress has created in the Shipping Actby undermining the notion of national uniformity inmaritime commercial regulations.QUESTION: Well, Congress could certainly handlethat by making it very clear by legislation that if theState runs one of these operations, the State waives itssovereign immunity. Couldn't Congress make that clear? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. HUGHEY: I'm not sure if that kind of waiveris still acceptable after this Court's opinions of recentyears.(Laughter.)MR. HUGHEY: I would suggest that it's probablynot, but we think that, under the statute as it's writtennow, there's no need for something like that, because it'smerely a regulatory action that the commission isattempting to utilize to find facts to determine whatconstitutes a Shipping Act violation, and again, there'sno use of coercive power. In order for there to becoercion, the commission has to go into a Federal districtcourt.rebuttal.If I could reserve the remainder of my time forQUESTION: Very well, Mr. Hughey.Mr. Clement, we'll hear from you.ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAUL D. CLEMENTON BEHALF OF THE UNITED STATESIN SUPPORT OF THE PETITIONERMR. CLEMENT: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court:States enjoy no sovereign immunity from Federalexecutive branch action, even when it takes the form ofadjudication. It is well-established that States have no th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC immunity from a suit brought by the Federal Government. That's true not because of some preexisting notion ofsovereign immunity, but because that consent to suits bythe United States Federal Government is implicit in theplan of the convention.Now, proceedings before the Federal MaritimeCommission are a necessary predicate for the United StatesGovernment to bring a Federal suit to enforce the ShippingAct. Given that the States enjoy no immunity from such asuit, they should not be allowed to reach back into theadministrative process and assert an immunity from thepreliminary proceedings before the agency.QUESTION: But I'm not -- I don't understand theargument. Sovereign immunity is based on parties, and wehave said that when the United States is a party, there'sno sovereign immunity, and not, incidentally, because thatwas inconsistent with some earlier notion of sovereignimmunity, because the Constitution changed it.MR. CLEMENT: No --QUESTION: But here we have a private party. That's all -- isn't that all the difference in the world?MR. CLEMENT: But we have a private party that'snot initiating a lawsuit, but is initiating executiveaction. Private parties are free to complain to theFederal Government and say a State government is violating th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Federal law. In fact, the Petition Clause rightlyprotects the individual petitioner's right to petition theFederal Government and complain about that violation.Now, I don't think it violates the Constitutionfor the United States Federal Government to say, we takecitizen complaints seriously, and we're going toinvestigate each and every one of them, and I wouldn'tthink that it would violate the Eleventh Amendment for theAttorney General to give the party who's the subject ofthe complaint, even if it's the State, an opportunity tocome before --QUESTION: Yes, but --MR. CLEMENT: -- the executive branch andexplain why there wasn't a violation.QUESTION: But the commission isn't just likekind of an ombudsman here. I mean, it's got very definiteprocedures that greatly resemble adjudication.MR. CLEMENT: Well, they do resembleadjudication, and that's part of the process to formalizeand regularize this process of getting complaints fromcitizens and response from others, but I don't think theformalization and regularization of that process turns itinto a judicial act. It remains an act --QUESTION: Well, isn't it the case that if theState defaults and says, you have no jurisdiction over me, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC and the commission therefore comes to a conclusion --we'll leave the word adjudication out of it. It comes toa conclusion. That conclusion itself is enforceable assuch, at the behest of the National Government, in adistrict court, isn't it?MR. CLEMENT: Well, first I want to clarifysomething. If there's a case where the State doesn'tappear, and the private party is asserting a view of theShipping Act that's contrary to the view of the FederalMaritime Commission, then there will be no order.QUESTION: Let's assume it's not contrary. Let's assume the Maritime Commission says, you, privateparty, are right, and we hold that the State has committedthe following violations, and I presume should be enjoinedfrom further commission, whatever order it might come upwith.Once the commission has come to such aconclusion, isn't that conclusion, as such, enforceable atthe behest of the United States in the district court?MR. CLEMENT: It is -- it would be enforceablethrough a judicial procedure under the Shipping Act.QUESTION: So -- if that is so, there'ssomething much more involved here than merely an agency ofthe National Government taking a complaint seriously andinvestigating it, and the difference is that in the -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC under the act, its conclusion on the investigation becomesan enforceable order at the behest of the NationalGovernment in a district court, and isn't that thedifference?MR. CLEMENT: But I don't think it's a criticaldifference, because the reason that that becomesenforceable, subject to whatever defenses there are, thereason that becomes enforceable is not because it's themidway point in some litigation. It's enforceable becauseit reflects the executive branch's definitiveinterpretation of the Shipping Act.The cease-and-desist order --QUESTION: Well, the Federal Government couldhave an interpretation of the Shipping Act and go intoit -- assuming there is otherwise a statutory jurisdictionhere, the National Government could have a view of theshipping Act and go into the district court and say, thisis our considered view, and the other party would have anopportunity to oppose it. We'd have a lawsuit.As things stand now, when the United States goesin with what you call its considered view, that is the endof the issue on the merits, as I understand it. The onlything the district court is there for is to enforce it.MR. CLEMENT: Well, there are some challengesthat can be brought to that, and I guess the problem with th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC this --QUESTION: Could they have a trial de novo onthe merits?MR. CLEMENT: No, they can't, under the currentsystem.QUESTION: Could they collaterally attack andsay, look, it doesn't mean anything to us, because wecan't be hauled in front of the commission by a privateparty. Can it -- is such a plea recognized?MR. CLEMENT: I don't think it currently is, butif that's --QUESTION: No, I don't think it is, either, andthat's why your argument that this is nothing but a wayfor the National Government to take a considered view of acomplaint and come to a conclusion seems to me beside thepoint.MR. CLEMENT: Well, it -- but the point, Ithink -- first of all, if the problem is the level ofreview that's given at the end of the process, then that'swhat should be adjusted, not throwing out the entireproceeding ab initio as the Fourth Circuit did.But more to the point, I think the reasonthere's deference is because it reflects the executivebranch's view, and it's the same in that order whetherit's the product of a privately initiated complaint and th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC adjudication, or whether it's an agency-initiatedcomplaint. In both cases there's going to be practicalpressure for the State-regulated entity to participate inthe proceeding, but neither should they get an immunity.The practical pressure is not the same as thecompulsive process that the judiciary has. Nobody'ssummoned before the commission because a summons isnecessarily enforced through the contempt power of thecourt. This is --QUESTION: Well, Mr. Clement, when I began toread your brief and I sensed that the sky was falling, andso I was turning my pages to see all of the horriblethings that were going to happen to the Federal scheme ifthe court of appeals judgment stood, and I didn't see muchthere. There's the Vending Stand Act in one of thecircuit courts, but do Federal agencies call Governorsbefore them all the time and say, well now, Governor,you're not enforcing the Federal laws? I don't see thatas part of our constitutional tradition. I don't see thatwe would create a great revolution in traditional practiceby pulling the Ninth Circuit.MR. CLEMENT: What there is a tradition of isthe executive branch having the flexibility to determinehow it is going to enforce Federal law. There aren't manyof these cases precisely because there just aren't that th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC many State-run entities that are regulated, but theexecutive branch has the flexibility to regulate themthrough rule-making, through agency-initiatedadjudications, or through private adjudications.In each one of those, there are practicalpressures to participate. In each one of those, the rule-making can be initiated by a private complaint. There's aspecific provision in the commission's regulation to allowrule-makings to be kicked off by a private complaint, butthat doesn't turn it into something other than theexecutive branch's determination of what the law is andhow it should be enforced, and this Court has generallydeferred to the executive branch's need to determine howbest to take care that the laws are faithfully executed.QUESTION: What about the labor board?MR. CLEMENT: What's that?QUESTION: What about the labor board,universities?MR. CLEMENT: Well, --QUESTION: State universities and the laborboard.MR. CLEMENT: I don't know the specificapplication, but --QUESTION: No, but I'm thinking that theuniversities often have unions, and I gather that -- why th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC hasn't the labor board been involved in adjudicatingcomplaints about the State university as an employer inrespect to the labor unions?MR. CLEMENT: Well --QUESTION: Maybe it hasn't. I wouldn't know whyit wouldn't have.MR. CLEMENT: I mean, but one thing that'scertainly clear about the labor board is that that's aperfect example of an administrative agency that decidesto proceed by adjudication.QUESTION: I'm not arguing with you. I'm justwondering why there were not more examples.MR. CLEMENT: Well, another example is theRailway Labor Act, because the Railway Labor Act is --defines its jurisdiction coextensively with the InterstateCommerce Commission. There are State-run railroads underthe Railway Labor Act. Typically those kind of employmentdisputes are initiated by a private party. This court inCalifornia v. Taylor said that the Railway Labor Act canapply to a State-run railroad.Interestingly, in footnote of that opinion,the Court reserved the question of whether the EleventhAmendment provided protection for the suit in court, butit didn't say anything about Eleventh Amendment protectionbefore the board itself, and I think the relevant history th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC here is almost exactly the opposite of the case in Alden.In Alden, this case had a long history of Statesovereign immunity, and very few and only recent effortsby the Federal Government to abrogate that immunity. Here, by contrast, there's a -year tradition of Stateentities being subject to regulatory commissions, and veryfew and only recent efforts to invoke any kind of EleventhAmendment immunity before them.I also think that the text of the EleventhAmendment has a special relevance here that it lacked inAlden. In Alden, the determination that State courts notexercise the, quote, judicial power of the United States,only began the analysis of whether or not the Statesenjoyed their sovereign immunity free from congressionaldisturbance.Here, the recognition that the commissionexercise -- does not exercise the judicial power of theUnited States necessarily means it exercises the executivepower of the United States, and this Court hastraditionally held that the executive branch may initiateprocess against the States without an Eleventh Amendmentbar.The fact that this proceeding --QUESTION: Well, it's not -- you keep speakingabout an Eleventh Amendment bar. The bar is sovereign th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC immunity. We're not concerned about the textuallimitations about the Eleventh Amendment. We're concernedwith sovereign immunity.MR. CLEMENT: But in this particular context, Ithink the text is relevant, because this is not a free-floating, pre-existing notion of sovereign immunity. Whatwe're saying is that the Eleventh Amendment waiver in theplan of the Constitution that allows the United StatesGovernment to sue a State also allows it to take thepreliminary steps in the administrative process.QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. Clement.Mr. Dean, we'll hear from you.ORAL ARGUMENT OF WARREN L. DEAN, JR.ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTMR. DEAN: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice, and mayit please the Court:This case presents the question of whethersovereign immunity protects a State from a private suitbrought before a Federal administrative tribunal. We haveheard today arguments and suggestions that this proceedingis not a suit within the meaning of the doctrine andprinciple of sovereign immunity.In , this Court addressed this question. Itheld in Nichols v. United States that a proceeding beforean Article I administrative tribunal, a so-called th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC legislative court, just like the Federal MaritimeCommission, was a suit for sovereign immunity purposes. The case was appealed from an appeals court.The Court confirmed that legislative courtstatus of the claims court twice, in Ex parte Bakelite in, and then in Williams v. United States in , andlater in the court again, in United States v.Sherwood, unanimously confirmed both conclusions, thatStates -- that claims court was an Article I legislativecourt, and its jurisdiction was dependent upon a waiver ofsovereign immunity. There were no dissenting justices inany single one of those decisions.QUESTION: Mr. Dean, but that was an Article Icourt that just adjudicates. Here we're being told thatthe Maritime Commission is in the business of making rulesfor the governance of people in the trade, and it makesthe rules three ways. One through rule-making, another'sthrough commission proceeding, and a third through privatecomplaints, and why couldn't the private complainant beregarded as a kind of delegate to the commission? I takeit if the commission itself decided to investigate, youwould have no question about sovereign immunity, is thattrue?MR. DEAN: We've made that clear throughout thisproceeding, Justice. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: All right. So why can't thecommission say, one of the ways that we investigate is, welisten to what private people tell us, so that in effectwe're taking that private complaint and we're making itour own by processing it?MR. DEAN: That's exactly -- that is exactlywhat does not happen in this case, Your Honor. A privatecomplainant files a complaint before the Federal MaritimeCommission, we receive the notice, we either respond orwe're in default. It is quite clear -- and I submit withall due respect that Mr. Clement is absolutely wrong onthis. It is quite clear that the agency can find bothfindings of fact and findings of law against anonresponding party.That's been established administrative procedurelaw for sometime and, in fact, the private party controlsthe disposition of this proceeding. The executive arm ofthe Federal Maritime Commission, its Bureau ofEnforcement, does not even have a right to intervene inthe proceeding. It has to petition like any other privateparty to get involved in the proceeding. They did not dothat in this case.QUESTION: Can the private party ask --QUESTION: -- have standing?MR. DEAN: They have to show cause for th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC intervention, Justice Kennedy, just like any other privateparty would do. They have no greater standing than anyother private party.QUESTION: But could a private party say to thecommission, commission, here's a serious complaint,something wrong has been done, I don't have the resourcesto prosecute it, would you please investigate it?MR. DEAN: Oh, absolutely. That's the way thecommission traditionally does business. That is anentirely separate proceeding. That is the proceeding towhich we would not object. If a private party came intothe commission and said, we have this grievance againstthe South Carolina State Port Authority and we'd like youto look into it, and the Bureau of Enforcement came to usand said, we think you're doing something wrong, we wouldobviously talk to them, and if we couldn't reach some kindof accommodation with respect to that matter, then wewould -- and they brought a complaint against us, theywould be entitled to do that if -- provided the complaintwas brought in their names and formed by the UnitedStates.And I might add that, in a reparationsproceeding -- this is not a sanctionless exercise. In areparations proceeding, if the agency issues an orderagainst us, a judgment against us, and we fail to comply th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC with that judgment, we incur statutory liabilities,automatic, of up to $, a day. Now, they can becompromised by the agency for a period of years aftereach violation, if it so chooses, but any time somebodysays to me, for example, that if you don't do XYZ you'regoing to incur an automatic statutory liability of $,a day, I consider that a sanction, and --QUESTION: Well, is that statutory liability, isthat enforceable by the commission without court order, ordid it have to go to court to do it?MR. DEAN: Ultimately, if push comes to shoveand there's a confrontation, they have to go to court, butMr. Chief Justice, I think anybody faced with a statutoryliability of the United States imposed by Federal lawconsiders that a sanction, and we do not have theopportunity to protect our interests, to say, no, no, no,this wasn't a violation, this is what we did, when theagency, the only standard for the enforcement of theagency's order in court is whether or not it was duly andregularly issued.So the position of the United States that thisis not a -- that this is a proceeding that is essentiallyequivalent to a petition by a private party for executiveaction is absolutely incorrect, and they don't evenbelieve that position themselves. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: Could I go back to your openingstatement? Why is it an exercise of the judicial power ofthe United States? I mean, we have an ordinaryadministrative agency. What's the theory of it?I mean, I grant you, I'm sure you're right, thatthere's some case that said once the court of claims,which is a court in exercising -- though set up underthose Article I exercises the judicial power of the UnitedStates, so my Constitution says it has nothing to do withwhether it's a lawsuit, not a lawsuit, I don't care. Iwant to know, is it the judicial power of the UnitedStates, and frankly, I didn't know that the executivebranch could exercise the judicial power of the UnitedStates.MR. DEAN: The court below held --QUESTION: Whatever they held, I want to knowwhat the reasoning of it is.MR. DEAN: Well, the reasoning -- thejudicial -- you don't need to find the judicial power.QUESTION: You don't? My Constitution happensto say, the judicial power of the United States shall notbe construed, so I'm -- maybe I don't have to find it, but I'd like to know on what basis I wouldn't have to .MR. DEAN: This is a case brought by a citizenof the State of South Carolina, like Chisholm v. Georgia, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC I might add, against the -- against a -- the State ofSouth Carolina. It's not technically for those terms andthose terms alone within the scope of the EleventhAmendment.QUESTION: All right, fine, it's not within thescope of the Eleventh Amendment.MR. DEAN: It's Hans v. Louisiana.QUESTION: Oh, no, no, I want to know if it iswith -- forget the fact -- I think it is within the scopeof the Eleventh Amendment if a -- I believed, as far as Iknow, when a citizen of a State sues the State itself, ofwhich he is a citizen, it is an interpretation of theEleventh Amendment, and I didn't know that for thatpurpose you didn't have to find the judicial power of theUnited States, so I'm open to that argument.MR. DEAN: Well --QUESTION: I want to know, is this the judicialpower? If so, what's the argument? If it's not thejudicial power, what part of the Constitution forbids it?MR. DEAN: First, it is -- we have stated it isthe judicial power, but you need not find that, and I'llgive you the reason it is the judicial power of the UnitedStates, is because this agency acts as an adjunct to thecourt, just as this Court has held in Northern Pipelineand -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: Do all administrative --QUESTION: Did you say it was the exercise ofjudicial power?MR. DEAN: It is the exercise of -- the ShippingAct entails the exercise of judicial power, JusticeStevens. You can look at this either as an organicanalysis, as you have done under the Appointments Clauseof the commission itself, or you can look at the statutoryprocess and procedure that is involved.QUESTION: Does the Federal Trade Commissionexercise the judicial power, does the State Department,does the Commerce Department, the Post Office -- I mean,what is the principle under which this is or is not?MR. DEAN: Well, the --QUESTION: What about the President, let's say,when he's -- you see the point.MR. DEAN: In your book, Justice Breyer, youcall this an uneasy constitutional area, and I certainlyagree with that.(Laughter.)MR. DEAN: The judicial power of the UnitedStates, this Court has held in a number of cases,including the cases that I just mentioned, that thejudicial power can -- at least some component of theexercise of the judicial power in a comprehensive th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC proceeding can be delegated to nonjudicial officers,provided it is subject to judicial supervision and subjectto some specific supervisory parameters that exist in thiscase, but it's a complicated question, and the Court hasdisagreed on it, and various court have disagreed on thisquestion for sometime, and in fact, in some of the casesthat I just mentioned, the United States Supreme Courttook appellate jurisdiction from an Article I tribunal inthe executive branch, and under those circumstancessomething was going on before the court of claims.QUESTION: You know, now that I can quote one ofmy favorite authors, Justice Scalia, he says it is nodoubt true that all such administrative bodies adjudicate,they determine facts, apply a rule of law to those facts,and thus arrive at a decision --MR. DEAN: Well --QUESTION: -- but there is nothing inherentlyjudicial about adjudication.MR. DEAN: Granted, but --QUESTION: Then what is it that makes it thejudicial power?MR. DEAN: What is it that makes it subject tosovereign immunity, or what is it that makes it thejudicial power?QUESTION: The judicial power is what we're th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC all -- and I'm --MR. DEAN: Well, the judicial power, if you lookat a proceeding, an administrative proceeding like theShipping Act, and this Court held that, held this in theFar East Conference case, it said, you can't take oneisolated aspect of it. You cannot take the organic entitywhich is the Federal Maritime Commission and consider itsfunctions independent of the rest of the proceeding thatis involved.Ultimately, this proceeding ultimately, incombination with the courts of the United States, thisproceeding invokes the judicial power, whether the FMC isacting --QUESTION: All executive action does. I mean,that's just too broad a principle. I mean, the fact is,since we don't have a -- we have a Constitution that hasa Habeas Corpus Clause. There's nothing the executive cando to you that can't be challenged in court.MR. DEAN: Well, this is --QUESTION: Ultimately, the court is the momentof truth, but that doesn't convert every executive actioninto an exercise of the judicial power.MR. DEAN: I know, but this is clearly notpurely executive action. This is an independent agency,and this Court has held repeatedly that officers that th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC exercise quasi-judicial power can be subject to specialremoval requirements, and that is --QUESTION: Ah, so if this wasn't an independentagency, it would be different?MR. DEAN: No, but let me -- both in Hensel andin Artistani, and in this Court's decision in West v.Gibson --QUESTION: Would you -- may I just interruptyou? What if this were an executive agency, rather thanan independent agency? Could you make the same argument?MR. DEAN: Like -- the claims court was withinthe Department of Treasury at the time these decisionswere handed down. That doesn't necessarily resolve thematter, but it does instruct the Court's analysis thatthis is a quasi-judicial independent agency --QUESTION: Well, but that's not answering myquestion.MR. DEAN: -- and its officers are not subjectto executive supervision.QUESTION: What is your answer to my question? If it were a pure executive agency, would it be the samecase for you?MR. DEAN: No. It would be the same casedepending on the statutory process involved, JusticeStevens. The agencies -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: In the statuary process, but clearlyan executive agency within the Department of Commerce orDepartment of Agriculture, or something like that.MR. DEAN: It was -- the court of claims was inthe Department of Treasury at the time, and customsofficials have done --QUESTION: You're a little too fast for me.MR. DEAN: I'm sorry.QUESTION: What is your answer? Is it the samecase entirely within the executive branch?MR. DEAN: It is.QUESTION: Okay.QUESTION: Let me ask you a slightly differentquestion. If we assume for the sake of argument that itis not the judicial power that's being exercised here, doyou lose?lose?MR. DEAN: No.QUESTION: Why don't you lose? Why don't you lMR. DEAN: The court below said it wasirrelevant.QUESTION: Pardon me?MR. DEAN: The court below said it wasirrelevant, and I agree with that proposition.QUESTION: And it's irrelevant because? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. DEAN: Because sovereign immunity --QUESTION: Sovereign immunity -- in other words,you've got a sovereign immunity argument which is at leastdistinct from the Eleventh Amendment argument?MR. DEAN: Absolutely.QUESTION: Okay.MR. DEAN: And the United States has a sovereignimmunity argument, and they apply sovereign immunity --QUESTION: That's what I thought.MR. DEAN: The United States applies itssovereign immunity in proceedings just like this. It hasfor all time. As a matter of fact, this Court has heldsovereign immunity applies to the United States inadministrative proceedings consistently for the last years, and there has not been one single dissent from thatproposition that I've been able to find.In West, all the Justices of this Court assumedfor the purposes of that analysis that sovereign immunityprinciples apply before the EEOC.QUESTION: Well, but sovereign immunity for theUnited States may not be co-extensive with sovereignimmunity for the States. Granted that sovereign immunityto the States goes beyond just the literal language of theEleventh Amendment about the judicial power.MR. DEAN: Mr. Chief Justice, I agree with that th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC proposition in the abstract, but in this particular case,I think there's a lot of similarity, and I'll give youexactly -- I'll tell you exactly why I think why.Firstly, the courts have held that it's areciprocal -- this Court has held over the years that itis a reciprocal privilege, but the United States in itsbrief in this case --QUESTION: Excuse me. What do you mean by that,that it's a reciprocal privilege?MR. DEAN: Well, in Alden and in Hans and -- theCourt has held that the privilege of Federal sovereignimmunity -- State sovereign immunity is a reciprocalprivilege to the privilege enjoyed by the States.QUESTION: By reciprocal you mean that it's co­extensive?MR. DEAN: Co-extensive mirror image, yes,Justice Scalia.The United States has suggested in this case,and it's a proposition that I agree with, that thesovereign immunity of the United States at least as itapplies to money judgments -- and it's much broader thanmoney judgments, but let's just talk about money judgmentsfor a minute, that at least as it applies to moneyjudgments is informed by the Appropriations Clause, whichreserves to the legislature, to the Congress the right to th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC spend, and we all know the right to spend is the right totax.So our body politic, our -- the public -- thepeople of the United States have made a determination thattheir Constitution, which is their sovereign, commits tothe legislative branches the exclusive right to expend thepublic's money, and that's a very fundamental principle inour Federal Constitution. That principle is alsoreflected word for word in this constitution of SouthCarolina --QUESTION: Well, you don't think the Stateshave --MR. DEAN: Pardon me?QUESTION: -- the exclusive right to determinewhen their money will be spent in a proceeding brought bythe United States, do you?MR. DEAN: Excuse me?QUESTION: You don't say that the States havethe same power over their own money that the United Stateshas over its money, in an action brought by the UnitedStates?MR. DEAN: I do.QUESTION: There's sovereign immunity -- even inan action brought by the United States?MR. DEAN: No, this Court has held that they th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC have consented to suit, so it doesn't apply in that area.QUESTION: So they don't have sovereign immunityin cases brought by the United States.MR. DEAN: That's correct, but in thisconstitution of the State of South Carolina that wasadopted years before this Constitution was adopted,there is the same Appropriations Clause. The sameprinciple is reflected, that no moneys may be obligated --QUESTION: But that was before the SupremacyClause was adopted in the Federal Constitution.MR. DEAN: But this is a constitutionalprinciple Justice Stevens. It is a question --QUESTION: It is not a constitutionalprotection -- principle that protects the States fromliability to the United States.MR. DEAN: I ask you this question as ahypothetical. The Constitution of this --QUESTION: No, counsel doesn't ask questions.(Laughter.)MR. DEAN: I'm sorry, Mr. Chief Justice.The constitution of -- I'll state it in adeclaration. The constitution of the State of SouthCarolina reflects the same principle reflected in theAppropriations Clause. We have two sister sovereigns,both of them organized on the same fundamental principle th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC that only the people have the right to levy on the publictreasury, and only the people through their electedrepresentatives, and only the people have the right tospend, and therefore only the people have the right totax.QUESTION: Mr. Dean --MR. DEAN: Now, you have these two comparableconstitutions. How do you put them together and violatethat principle?QUESTION: Mr. Dean --MR. DEAN: I don't know the answer to thatquestion, Justice Stevens.QUESTION: -- you recognized a case called Exparte Young, and let's say that the private complainantsays, okay, I'm not going to sue the State courtauthorities. I'm going to sue the commissioners, and soas the FMC to please substitute for the entity theindividual commissioners, and they said go ahead, and theydon't have sovereign -- individuals, at least with respectto prospective relief do not have sovereign immunity.Why couldn't -- is that then just a matter ofamending a complaint to name different parties?MR. DEAN: That suit belongs in Federal court,and I doubt very seriously that the commission has thatstatutory jurisdiction. The reason is that it has th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC jurisdiction over persons engaged in the business ofoperating, or internal operators. I very sincerely doubtthat any individual employee would satisfy that test, butthe test certainly exists under Ex parte Young.The opportunity might exist, except for the factthat the proper way for the individual to proceed in thisparticular case would be to file a declaratory judgmentunder State law, which is available, to obtain the reliefthe individual requested.QUESTION: But you haven't answered thequestion --MR. DEAN: I'm sorry, Justice --QUESTION: -- why couldn't the FMC say --MR. DEAN: I don't believe the Shipping Actgives the FMC jurisdiction over individuals who areemployees of entities that are engaged in --QUESTION: Not employees, the commissionersthemselves, the members of the State body.MR. DEAN: The officers of the -- I don'tbelieve the Shipping Act gives the FMC jurisdiction overofficers of entities that it regulates. I don't believeit has that kind of personal jurisdiction, Your Honor. That issue has not -- I am not aware that that issue hasdecided, but I frankly have grave doubts that it would.QUESTION: But if that matter were clarified so th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC that Congress, wanting the FMC to have this third way ofregulating said, in the case where State agencies areinvolved you can sue the individuals, individuals whocompose the entity --MR. DEAN: Well, the proper way for the FederalMaritime -- as I said, I don't think the FMC has thatjurisdiction. It does have jurisdiction over us. All ithas to do is initiate its own complaint. When the ALJdismissed the complaint in this case, he invited thecommission, if the commission deemed the case had merit,satisfying the test in Alden, he invited the commission toinitiate a proceeding through its own Enforcement Bureau. The commission did not do so. Instead, they reversed theALJ's order, which is in turn reversed by the FourthCircuit.The parties in this, the Federal parties in thiscase do not challenge the holdings of this case inNichols, Hans, Sherwood, Alden, or Seminole, so in effectwhat they're asking this Court to decide is the followingthree propositions, and all of the following threepropositions: that lesser tribunals established underArticle I have powers that both State and Federal courtslack, even though they constitutionally may adjudicateonly subject to the supervision of the latter; ) thatCongress, merely by assigning a private cause of action to th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC administrative tribunal, acquires and exercises power itdoes not otherwise have to abrogate State sovereignimmunity, thereby bypassing this Court's sovereignimmunity jurisprudence, and ) that States lack thereciprocal right to assert sovereign immunity in Federalfora where the immunity of the United States clearlyapplies.QUESTION: Well, you really don't need yourthird argument, do you, that the State sovereign immunityis co-extensive with Federal sovereign immunity?MR. DEAN: I don't need that third argument, Mr.Chief Justice, that's quite correct, but what the UnitedStates asserts, says about administrative proceedings, ifthey were purely executive action -- for example, if itwas purely an executive branch matter, this -- the UnitedStates has come into this Court on numerous occasions mostrecently in Artistani and West, and asked this Court tointervene in what they now say is a purely executivebranch matter.There was no inquiry. There was no specialanalysis that the court did to determine whether or notthe intervention in that kind of purely executive branchmatter was warranted. There was no discussion of that. The court assumed that the doctrine of sovereign immunityas it applied to the Federal Government applied to it, and th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC I might add that --QUESTION: Oh, what is the boundary? Apparentlyyou're now talking about a principle of state sovereignimmunity outside the scope of Amendment of the UnitedStates Constitution, and I haven't really heard of thatone. I'm not saying it doesn't exist, but where do I goto discover what its bounds are, to discover what theimplications are, to discover if it applies when thePresident does anything? I mean, I don't know what thescope of that one is, so where do I go to find out aboutthat?MR. DEAN: If the President does something andthe President --QUESTION: No, I'm just asking -- my questionis --MR. DEAN: Hans -- Hans v. Louisiana is the onlyplace you need to go. QUESTION: In other words, Hans you say isoutside the scope of the Eleventh Amendment.MR. DEAN: By its terms it held it was outsidethe scope of the Eleventh Amendment.QUESTION: All right, so Hans does not have todo with the Eleventh Amendment.MR. DEAN: It does not by its terms haveanything to do -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: Okay, it does not.MR. DEAN: -- it reflects the --QUESTION: Then how do I discover the scope ofthis principle of State sovereign immunity outside theEleventh Amendment?MR. DEAN: Well, the same way you discover theprinciple of Federal sovereign immunity. You look at whatthe nature of the proceeding, and the nature of theaffront to the dignity of the sovereign is being involved,you identify what the sovereign's interests are, and inthis particular case, in the money judgment it violatesthe same clause of our constitution that it violates inthe case of the Federal Constitution, and that's prettypersuasive.QUESTION: But as I understand your argument,it's not limited to the reparations part of the case. There's --MR. DEAN: No. QUESTION: -- also a request for a cease anddesist order.MR. DEAN: Although I might add, JusticeStevens --QUESTION: You don't really need the reparationsfor your position.MR. DEAN: -- that the pure participation in th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC this lengthy proceeding has had consequences for theTreasury of the State of South Carolina, but nonetheless,it's much broader than that, yes, Your Honor. It goes tothe nature -- as this Court held in Seminole, and I mightadd, when I was -- when we argued the case before theFourth Circuit we had a little discussion about whether ornot the State of South Carolina was willing to be ascofflaw.In other words, whether we were willing to haveour -- to have allegations, whether they be frivolous orserious, against us go unanswered in an administrativetribunal that concededly regulates us in Washington andhave as the United States maintains this become aprecedent that would affect their dealing with us in thefuture without defending ourselves, and that's simply nota realistic option for the State of South Carolina.It's not a realistic option for anyone, muchless a sovereign. If there's anything to dignity, there'sa dignity to that, to be able to defend yourself againstallegations and not have people who are decisionmakersmake judgments against you --QUESTION: But let me just --MR. DEAN: -- based on unanswered allegations,or unanswerable allegations.QUESTION: May I interrupt you for just a th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC moment, please?MR. DEAN: Justice Stevens.QUESTION: Let's put the reparations to oneside, and let's assume you're dead right on the monetaryaspect of the case. Is it your position that it would bein everyone's best interest to have proceedings like thisinitiated ex parte, and then the agency makes up its mindwhether to go -- bring an enforcement proceeding, or itwould be better to have a formal proceeding where you have a chance to respond to the charges and so forth?MR. DEAN: No, it's far better, Justice Stevens,to have a person come to the agency, present its concernsto the agency, and the agency approach the State of SouthCarolina, one sovereign to another sovereign.This case involves the regulation of gamingships. The Congress has committed that to our discretionunder State law. We are given that right. The JohnsonAct, which gave us the right to regulate gaming ships,does not say that it's subject to review by the FederalMaritime Commission. It does not say, for example thatthe Federal Maritime Commission --QUESTION: No, but if you have --MR. DEAN: -- has the right to preempt theCongress.QUESTION: If you have an issue such as this in th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC which the agency thinks there's a colorable basis for aproceeding, do you think the only way they can proceedagainst you formally is to first of all get all theinformation ex parte from the private parties, and thenmake up their own mind as to whether to bring a formalproceeding in the name of the agency?MR. DEAN: Just like the Department of Justicedoes when it enforces the laws against the States, yes,Your Honor, that is the proper way of doing it, because wecan and will address those allegations at that time, but Ican assure you that the -- this case implements policiesof the State of South Carolina that are important to it,the regulation of gaming ships, the Johnson Act Congresshas said it's up to the State of South Carolina to makethose policies and to implement those policies --QUESTION: Well, but the Johnson Act certainlydidn't say that South Carolina was exempt from therequirement of the Shipping Act, that it not discriminate.MR. DEAN: No, but I can -- that's correct, butin -- any regulatory system has at its core the right tomake discretionary, discriminatory judgments about whatdoes and does not comply with the policies of that regime.QUESTION: Well --MR. DEAN: And the FMC is now sitting injudge -- as a judge of the -- of our implementation of th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC State law as authorized by the Johnson Act.QUESTION: Well, certainly you're not suggestingthat the Shipping Act in its prohibition againstdiscrimination can't be applied to South Carolina otherthan on a sovereign immunity basis, are you?MR. DEAN: No, we're not, but what we're sayingis that if they exercise the executive discretion thatthey ought to act, that the Constitution envisions themenacting, that they would approach us as a sovereign, we'dsay, these are our sovereign interests, they'd say, theyare their sovereign interests --QUESTION: Well, yes, but --MR. DEAN: -- ultimately they would trump ours,if there was a disagreement --QUESTION: Yes. In we adopted aConstitution so they didn't have to approach one anotheras sovereign to sovereign any more.MR. DEAN: That's true, but in this particulararea the Congress has decided that the sovereign State ofSouth Carolina gets to do the regulating, Mr. ChiefJustice, so we would come down and we would have twodifferent regulatory regimes, and we would approach eachother, and we would resolve the differences between them,and if they disagreed, if ultimately they disagree, theycould bring a complaint against us, which they have the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC right to do, and we would defend it, and we wouldparticipate. We would have the opportunity to defendourselves, and we would defend ourselves, and so that's --QUESTION: It would not be, perhaps, asintellectually satisfying as resolving the casespecifically on the merits. Is it open to us to say thatthere's no clear statement that waives sovereign immunity,as we did in Vermont Yankee?MR. DEAN: There is no statement that waivessovereign immunity. I think that's been conceded in theproceedings below. There's no waiver of sovereignimmunity in this case. Yes, Your Honor.QUESTION: But there's no clear statement by theCongress of the United States intending abrogate --MR. DEAN: Oh, no, clearly not. There's nomention in the Shipping Act at all of intention to waiveState sovereign immunity. I can't find a mention in theShipping Act of intention to waive Federal sovereignimmunity if and when the Federal Government ever wants toget into the business of operating ports. It operates twoairports in the Washington area, so I don't think it'sinconceivable that it might do so at some point, but it isclearly -- it is clearly no waiver of sovereign immunity,even if -- even going back to the law where it said theCongress could waive the sovereign immunity of the United th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC States, of the States, I'm sorry, there is no evidence ofany intent whatsoever in the Shipping Act to do that.The fact that the Federal Maritime Commissionmay bring its own actions against the United States --against the States as it did in the California case provesthe opposite proposition, that the Congress, that was theproper way to proceed, and I think that is the proper wayto proceed.The -- I'd like to go back to -- this complaintis a verified private complaint. It is -- calls forreparations in the broadest form of reparations, includingconsequential damages, interest and attorney's fees, thecommission has no discretion in the handling of thiscomplaint, it's required by law to adjudicate it, and theagency's findings become final subject only to judicialreview.This is precisely the kind of anomalousproceeding suit that the Court had in mind in Hans, andHans came years after --QUESTION: But only to the extent they'reseeking a money judgment.MR. DEAN: No, Your Honor, I think the sovereignimmunity --QUESTION: Well, Hans was purely a moneyjudgment. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. DEAN: Yes, but they held that the Courtwas -- they held the State immune from the proceeding. Obviously, the proceeding had already been completed, butI think it's fairly clear now that the dignity of thesovereign entails to the entire proceeding, applies to theentire proceeding, but you know, this question about thedignity of the sovereign, the Court in Hans gave us someinstructions, some future instructions --QUESTION: But Hans was a court case.MR. DEAN: Hans is a court case.QUESTION: Well, I mean, it's not a case, then,in which they say it's not the judicial power --MR. DEAN: Just like Federal sovereign immunityis a court case.QUESTION: And why is it a case in which theysay -- isn't it -- I mean, I'm back on my judicial --forget it, I'm sorry.MR. DEAN: My time is up.QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. Dean.MR. DEAN: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice.QUESTION: Mr. Hughey, you have minutesremaining.REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF PHILLIP C. HUGHEYON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER FEDERAL MARITIME COMMISSIONMR. HUGHEY: If I could keep going with your th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC inquiry, Justice Breyer, I think we are suggesting thatthere is a line in this case, and that line is Freytag v.Commissioner of Internal Revenue. We're not suggestingthat State instrumentalities would never have sovereignimmunity in administrative proceedings. Rather, we'resuggesting that they might in proceedings in whichcontempt power can be exercised, and this is not one suchproceeding. This agency doesn't have coercive authorityover the entities that it regulates. It has to rely on aFederal district court for that.To make another point, I think Mr. Deanemphasized that the Shipping Act allows the agency to fineinstrumentalities that don't comply with its order. However, I should point out that in this case thecommission has never indicated that it has the authorityto fine a State instrumentality for not complying with areparation order. That was something that ended up in theFourth Circuit's opinion. We've never said we could doit, and the United States in its reply brief to this Courthas specifically expressed the view that the FMC could notfine a State-run court for not complying with the agency-issued reparation order.And finally, with respect to the issue ofwhether and when the agency's Bureau of Enforcement canintervene in an agency proceeding, I should point out that th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC whether or not the Bureau of Enforcement intervenes in theadjudication does not get to the point of whether it is anagency action, because the agency always retains theability to review, sua sponte, any administrative lawjudge order that comes out.QUESTION: Why is it that you cannot fine theState?MR. HUGHEY: I think the United States hassuggested that because the commission and the AttorneyGeneral don't have the authority to enforce a reparationorder against a State, that the authority to fine theState for not complying with that reparation order wouldnot be an appropriate interpretation of the Shipping Act.Again, that's something, the commission hasnever said that it has the authority to, or that it wouldfine a State for not complying with an agency-issuedreparation order.QUESTION: Could the commission substitute thecommissioners of the South Carolina Ports Authority forthe port authority itself?MR. HUGHEY: I'm unsure of that, JusticeGinsburg, but we would suggest that the pleadingrequirements of Ex parte Young need not be imported intothe Shipping Act, and that a request for, for example, acease and desist order against the ports authority would, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC under the Shipping Act, be sufficient, and that thecomplaint need not name the commissioners of the portsauthority themselves.Thank you -- oh, sorry.QUESTION: I think what Justice Ginsburg'squestion went to, you're saying you don't have to name theindividuals, but suppose that we held that you couldn'tname the State, do you think you have authority to namethe individuals?MR. HUGHEY: I'm unsure of that, Justice Scalia. The Shipping Act provides that complaints must be filedagainst persons. I think the question would be ratherwhether the port commissioners are persons. It may bethat a fiction could be conceived that they would be underthe Shipping Act, but again, that issue has never come upin the commission's administration of the statute.Thank you.CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: Thank you, Mr. Hughey.The case is submitted.(Whereupon, at ; a.m., the case in theabove-entitled matter was submitted.) th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC 