 IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - XGARY E. GISBRECHT, BARBARA :A. MILLER, AND NANCY SANDINE, :Petitioners, :v. : No. -JO ANNE B. BARNHART, COMMISSIONER OF SOCIAL SECURITY. :: :- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - XWashington, D.C.Wednesday, March , The above-entitled matter came on for oralargument before the Supreme Court of the United States at: a.m.APPEARANCES:ERIC SCHNAUFER, ESQ., Evanston, Illinois; on behalfof the Petitioners.DAVID B. SALMONS, ESQ., Assistant to the SolicitorGeneral, Department of Justice, Washington,D.C. (Pro Hac Vice); on behalf of theRespondent. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC C O N T E N T SORAL ARGUMENT OF ERIC SCHNAUFER, ESQ. On behalf of the Petitioners ORAL ARGUMENT OFDAVID B. SALMONS, ESQ.On behalf of the Respondent REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OFERIC SCHNAUFER, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioners PAGE th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC P R O C E E D I N G S(: a.m.)CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: We'll hear argumentnext in case number -, Gary Gisbrecht vs. Jo AnneBarnhart. Spectators are admonished, do not talk untilyou get out of the courtroom. The Court remains insession. Mr. Schnaufer? ORAL ARGUMENT OF ERIC SCHNAUFERON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERSMR. SCHNAUFER: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court: We are asking this Court to recognize asimple principle that a federal statute requires that anattorney fee be contingent on success in litigation, thatwhen the court determines an attorney fee pursuant to thatstatute, an attorney fee should reflect the contingentnature of the fee, thus because (b) requires acontingent fee in Social Security cases, when the districtcourt determined the reasonable fee pursuant to (b)that attorney fee must reflect the contingent nature ofthe fee. QUESTION: Let me ask you a question about thelimits of the extent of the prohibition, whatever is in(b). I think that can be read to deal only with thequestion where the attorney is seeking a recovery out of th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC the plaintiff's recovery. MR. SCHNAUFER: Yes, Mr. Chief Justice, it'spossible to interpret the statute in a way that would notcriminalize charging a claimant a noncontingent fee,however the existing practice in the bar is to take it asprohibiting charging a noncontingent fee? QUESTION: Well, there anything moreauthoritative as the existing practice of the bar thatwould lead to that conclusion? MR. SCHNAUFER: I would direct the Court'sattention to the (b)() where it sets forth thecriminal penalties for violation of the statute. There isonly one appellate court to address whether or not anoncontingent fee may be charged as the third circuit inCoup, but it doesn't reach the issue. Also one districtcourt in Hutchinson cited in the amicus brief from theclaimants representatives addresses that. No. I think even if the statute did notrequire a contingent fee when there was no judgmentfavorable to the plaintiff, I believe that the vastmajority of claimants would voluntarily choose to enterinto contingent fee agreements. QUESTION: Because that's how they get counsel?MR. SCHNAUFER: Absolutely. So even if thestatute didn't criminalize charging a noncontingent fee, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC this would be the voluntary selection of the vast majorityof --QUESTION: Well, if the statute, (b) readsas though when there is a judgment favorable to theclaimant, the court may allow a reasonable fee. And couldapparently determine that fee any way it saw fit? MR. SCHNAUFER: I believe this Court's decisionin Christenberg Garments is relevant. That case alsoaddresses whether the term, whether the court may awardattorney fees interpreting that the court did, theattorney matter wasn't up to the court, that the courtwould generally award the attorney fee in that feeshifting context. So yes, there are situations in which adifferent --QUESTION: Well, it suggests perhaps that thecourt would allow a fee, but it seems open-ended that itwill allow the court to determine the fee any way it wantson the lodestar method or via, by some other method.MR. SCHNAUFER: Justice O'Connor, I believethe statute should be interpreted relative to the legalcontext in which it was enacted in , which additionalrole of state courts rule on contingent fee agreements wasto decide where the agreed upon amount between the partieswas excessive or abusive. QUESTION: That wasn't personal to any th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC statutory mandate, was it? Wasn't that that just thesupervisory power of the courts over fees? MR. SCHNAUFER: Yes, the federal courts in theearly 's, in , doubted whether they even had theauthority to rule on the appropriateness of a contingentfee. Congress clarified that by specifically providing(b) so the court, the district court would determinethe reasonableness of a (b) fee. I believe that the --QUESTION: Well, you think the language of thestatute requires a contingent fee? At only reasonable feecan be a contingent fee? MR. SCHNAUFER: That any attorney fee has to becontingent on success in the litigation that could bedifferent fee agreements. For example, a plaintiff mayagree to charge or to pay his or her attorney a flat feecontingent on success in litigation or a specific hourlyfee contingent on success in the litigation or forexample, a complex formula based on the success inlitigation. But the attorney fee in our view --QUESTION: But you think that the implicationof this statute is that the court has to base it on theagreement of the attorney and the attorney's client? MR. SCHNAUFER: Yes. I believe the relevantinquiry -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: Because it done say that. I thinkyou are reading something in that isn't there. And youare basing that on practice of lawyers at the time orsomething? MR. SCHNAUFER: But, Justice O'Connor. Ibelieve that clearly in , Congress could not haveintended to adopt for this statute the lodestar methodgiven that the lodestar method had not been invented untila decade or so later and not really adopted by this Courtuntil its decision in --QUESTION: Well, before lodestar, there wereother descriptions for reasonable fees that depended onhours, degree of difficulty, etcetera etc. I mean,lawyers did that for decades. MR. SCHNAUFER: Yes. Yes, Justice Kennedy, andwhen a court was involved, the question would be whetherthe agreed upon fee is reasonable or unreasonable, thecourt would not itself in the context when there was anexisting fee, fee agreement determine what it felt was themost appropriate fee, so the primary question when thereis a fee agreement and a fee request is whether the feerequest, the agreed upon fee is reasonable. QUESTION: I think this is a very difficultcase because either way, we are going to be, I mean onwhich circuits involved, we are going to be upsetting th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC standard arrangements, contingent fees in some cases. Inthis case, in the Ninth Circuit, are you saying that thefee, the fee the Ninth Circuit set was not reasonable? MR. SCHNAUFER: Yes, Justice Kennedy. Forseveral reasons the attorney fee that the district courtsin Ninth Circuit set was not reasonable. First andforemost, the district courts did not address the primaryquestion whether the agreed upon fee was a reasonable fee. Second, the district court who decided, who ordered thefees in Gisbrecht, Miller and Sandine, did not take intoaccount, did not have the attorney fees reflect thecontingent nature of the fee. The district courts awardedin all three cases noncontingent hourly rates,noncontingent fees when by law, the attorney fee must becontingent on success. QUESTION: Well, but, of course, that assumesthat you are correct here. But based on a standard offair compensation, was this unfair compensation? MR. SCHNAUFER: Yes. QUESTION: Quite without reference to yourstatutory argument? MR. SCHNAUFER: Yes. Because when an attorneyfee is contingent on success in the litigation, theattorney fee should reflect the contingent nature of thefee. In this case, even if there were not a prohibition th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC on charging noncontingent fee, the parties had freelycontracted that the attorney would be paid more takinginto account the risk of loss. QUESTION: But it seems to me you have got toget back to the statute and say why the statute should beread the way you want it to. This isn't an ordinarysituation event or of a contingent fee say in a personalinjury case which the court may have supervision over inthe general sense. Here the court doesn't say that theattorney shall enter into an agreement and the court shallenforce it. It says the court may determine and allow aspart of its judgment a reasonable fee for suchrepresentation. I think you have got to build from thatand say why you think that the amount of the contingenciesspecified in your contract is the one that the court hasto follow. MR. SCHNAUFER: Mr. Chief Justice, I believethat the practice before is relevant. Attorneys wereentering into contingent fee agreements with their clientsto represent full representation in civil actions. Congress in an act in (b), did not void thoseagreements, did not say that attorneys should not charge acontingent fee, but instead, chose to regulate thecontingent fee agreements. If Congress had, if Congress had intended to th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC prohibit attorneys from engaging, from making contingentfee agreements with their clients, force representation infederal court, Congress really could have said so. Ithink we have cited. QUESTION: But it doesn't say anything in(b)()(a) about contingent fees, does it? MR. SCHNAUFER: No. (B)()(a) reflects thatthe attorney be must be contingent upon a favorablejudgment. judgment --QUESTION: Well, if you get a favorableMR. SCHNAUFER: Right. QUESTION: You can get a fee. MR. SCHNAUFER: Yes. QUESTION: Which isn't quite the same thing. MR. SCHNAUFER: We believe that the purpose ofthe statute expressed by Congress is fully implemented byour view. QUESTION: Let me -- I'm having troublefollowing your argument. And one reason is because I amusing the words differently than apparently you are. Iunderstand we are in a universe where you are only goingto get paid under this statute if you win. Am I rightabout that.MR. SCHNAUFER: Yes. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: All right, so we all assume in thatsense every fee is contingent. MR. SCHNAUFER: Yes. QUESTION: But then I thought we were trying todistinguish within that universe between some circuitsthat say the way we should calculate that is by looking towhat they call the lodestar, and other circuits that saythe way we calculate it is we look to the agreement and ifthe agreement is for percent of the recovery, that'swhere we start. Am I right? MR. SCHNAUFER: Yes, Justice --QUESTION: All right. Now what is it that weare trying to decide? Are we trying to decide whether --what is it that you see us trying to decide within thatuniverse? MR. SCHNAUFER: Well, there are significantvariations of the lodestar method. The government nowproposes that the lodestar method be the lodestar methodfrom the fee shifting context, not taking into account thecontingent nature. QUESTION: All right. As far as I can see, theNinth Circuit says we start with the lodestar, but then itcan be adjusted for factors. Number six of which iswhat I would call the contingent fee, namely, the one percent of the judgment written into the contract which is th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC what I will use the word contingent to refer to, and soyou have the Ninth Circuit says first the lodestaradjusted for that, and then some other circuits say firststart with percent contingency, but adjust it if thatisn't reasonable. Now, that's how I was seeing it. Now,am I right? Correct me if I'm not. MR. SCHNAUFER: Justice, I believe there arevariations. QUESTION: And there are some variations, butthose are the two basic things. All right. As betweenthose two basic things, what is it you want us to say.MR. SCHNAUFER: We ask the court to, to specifythat when a district court determines a reasonable feeunder (b) it should start by asking first the questionwhat is the agreed upon amount and is the agreed uponamount --QUESTION: Okay. You said circuits start withthe percent contract and adjust, rather than thecircuits that say start with the lodestar and adjust. Okay. And the statute says may. And now why should we dowhat you want rather than letting the Ninth Circuit freeto do it the way it wants? MR. SCHNAUFER: I believe, Justice Breyer, thatthere could be possible, you could allow different th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC circuits to do things in different ways, but the interestis in uniform federal law. I believe that the method, thetraditional method of determining contingent fee is bestserved, best serves the purpose of the act. Hence thelodestar calculation is generally an expensive,time-consuming endeavor best suited to complex litigation. Social Security cases only take generally , or hours to accomplish. If attorney fee litigation using, trying toproof up the Hensley hourly rate is required, thenattorneys will have to spend five, maybe , in this casemuch more hours trying to collect a compensatory fee. QUESTION: Mr. Schnaufer, can I ask you thisquestion? As I understand it, (a)provides that forrepresentation before the agency, the agency shallprescribe a maximum fee. Is -- is -- am I correct inthat.MR. SCHNAUFER: Yes. Justice Scalia. QUESTION: So the agency sets a fee and itdoesn't matter what the parties have agreed to before theagency. They can agree to whatever they like. The agencysays this is the maximum fee. Why would Congress in Badopt a totally different regime for representation beforethe courts? As a, you know, before the agency, youragreement with your lawyer doesn't make any difference, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC but before the courts basically what governs is youragreement with the lawyer. I don't know why they would dothat? MR. SCHNAUFER: Justice Scalia, I believe thatthe statute does not say. That the statute does notrequire the agency to ignore an agreement between aplaintiff or a claimant and his or her attorney whendetermining a fee for administrative work. In fact, ifyou take a look at the regulations --QUESTION: Well, it requires them to ignore itif it goes beyond what the agency determines is themaximum amount that ought to be charged. MR. SCHNAUFER: Yes, Justice Scalia. In thatway (b) and (a) are the same. To the extent thatany agreement between an attorney and the Social Securityclaimant is inconsistent with the statute provision thatagreement is void. The long-standing provision --QUESTION: What about the provision at theadministrative level that does refer to an agreement? This is, what is it, (a)(), an agreement --MR. SCHNAUFER: Yes. QUESTION: It controls with a cap of $, atthe agency level. MR. SCHNAUFER: Yes, Justice Ginsburg. Thestatute there is elucidative of Congress' acknowledgment th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC and lass the agency's acknowledgment of the capacity ofSocial Security claimants to contract with their attorneysfor representation in federal court. We are not askingspecifically for the court to adopt the presumption, theconclusive presumption in (a)(), instead, we maintainthat the attorney has the ability, has the burden as thefee applicant to establish the reasonableness of the fee. That is somewhat different than the more lenient rules of(a)(). QUESTION: May I ask, just a question of whatthis fee is composed of. Say the claimant loses at allthree levels of the administrator, the administrativelevel, then wins in court. Do the hours before the agencycount and then would they be computed differently becausethe (a) --MR. SCHNAUFER: Justice Ginsburg, it depends onwhether or not the claimant was represented during theadministrative proceedings. If the claimant wasrepresented during the administrative proceedings, thenthe claimant's attorney can apply to the agency forcompensation for their services after the --QUESTION: After winning in court, so theywould be completely different.MR. SCHNAUFER: Yes. They are dualentitlement. The attorney with seek both (b) fees from th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC the court, for the court work, and (a) fees from theagency for the agency work. QUESTION: I believe there is another scheme Ithink that's more adhered than this Social Securityscheme. For veterans' benefits purposes, you are probablyfamiliar with the provision that provides for filing anagreement and then if there is, when they reach such anagreement, the total fee payable to the attorney may notexceed percent of the total amount of any past duebenefits awarded. That's an express scheme for filing ofan agreement and the agreement enforceable. MR. SCHNAUFER: Yes, Justice Ginsburg. Ibelieve that Congress does, has addressed specifically onoccasion when a court, when the court should look to anagreement or the agency should look to the agreement todetermine a reasonable fee. However, I believe that inthe context of the legal context in , Congress wouldhave understood that a district court determining areasonable fee for representation in court for the --would look first to whether or not there was a contractbetween the attorney and the claimant and whether or notthe agreement upon amount was reasonable. That would bethe method by which the judge would be expected toproceed. The judge would not be expected to determineindependently a lodestar amount or try to determine a th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC reasonable fee. If the fee agreed to between the attorneyand the client was reasonable, then that fee would beapproved. QUESTION: So you are saying this is a more --this same statute came later, but that essentially, thatthey operate the same way? MR. SCHNAUFER: Yes, but with importantdifferences. The (a)() administrative fees creates apresumption in favor of the reasonableness of the fee. Weare saying that the attorney has the burden under (b)to prove the reasonableness of the fee. We are notsuggesting that there is any presumption that the feerequested or that percent is a reasonable fee. Theattorney has to prove that the reasonable fee is theagreed upon fee. Of course, it's important in many casesthe attorney will not request the full agreed upon fee butoftentimes will request much less. For example, in the case of Anderson that thiscourt denied cert on, the request was not for the fullamount of the contract, but for significantly less. Ibelieve the attorneys have a strong interest in notmaking, requesting inordinately large fees from the courtbecause one, it would be improper, unreasonable, two, thegovernment would be likely to object, and three, the courtwould be unlikely to award it and so attorneys generally th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC are going to make a fee request to the court under (b),they are going to be within the raping of reasonableness. QUESTION: If you place an objection to thelodestar method, you said this becomes a litigation thatis embarrassingly longer than the litigation over theclient itself.MR. SCHNAUFER: Justice Ginsburg, our objectionto the lodestar method depends on how you, what you meanby the lodestar method. There is a lodestar method usingthe fee shifting context that is a noncontingent fee. There is also a lodestar method that may allow enhancementfor contingency and that would be a fee-shifting context. QUESTION: The district court here relied onthe bar fees in the Portland area, didn't it, for lawyersthat have been practicing a certain amount of time? MR. SCHNAUFER: Yes, Mr. Chief Justice. Thehourly rates used were established as noncontingent hourlyrates however since the attorney services were contingenton success, an attorney fee awarded at that rate would notbe fully compensatory. That when an attorney fee iscontingent on success, the attorney fee, a reasonableattorney fee should reflect the contingent nature. QUESTION: Well, every fee is in a sensecontingent on success. I mean, if you lose the lawsuit,you don't charge the same amount as if you win the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC lawsuit, whether or not the fee agreement is contingent? MR. SCHNAUFER: Yes. Mr. Chief Justice. Inthis case, the government maintained that $ for oneattorney was the appropriate reasonable noncontingenthourly rate, however, the government also concedes thatthe class-based risk of loss in these cases is two out ofthree. We have set forth agency's own statistics showingthat / of Social Security plaintiffs end up receivingpast due benefits and so on average, an attorney willreceive / of that noncontingent hourly rate if thatnoncontingent hourly rate is all the compensation that theattorney can obtain. QUESTION: Mr. Schnaufer, here's my problemwith, with your basic argument, which is look at theparties who negotiated a fee in another context, thatnegotiated fees with what the court begins with. This isnot other contexts. All three of the contracts involvedin this case provided for a fee of percent of the backbenefits, right? MR. SCHNAUFER: Yes, Justice Scalia. QUESTION: And there is testimony in this casethat that is the universal practice, the universalpractice of all the lawyers that represent these kind of,these kinds of clients. MR. SCHNAUFER: Yes, Justice Scalia. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: And that, that percent of backbenefits is the maximum allowed by law? MR. SCHNAUFER: Yes, Justice Scalia. QUESTION: Now, what, what reason is there tobelieve that this is a, you know, an honest evaluation bythe two parties of what the, of what the lawyers' servicesare worth? The lawyers are simply going for the absolutemaximum that the laws allow. I don't know why we should"approach this" or why Congress would have approached itas cases in which well, you know, after all, the partiesstruck a deal at the beginning at arm's length and thatshould be the starting point. This is not that kind of asituation. It is a closed market in which these, theseplaintiffs take what the bar gives them. That's aboutit. MR. SCHNAUFER: Justice Scalia, I believe thatif the statute specified a percent maximum fee or percent maximum fee, the attorneys would also generallycharge, almost universally charge that same five or percent. It's important to take a look at the percentcap on past due benefits in relative context. This is percent of past due benefits. It's not percent of thewhole value of the case. In normal civil litigation anattorney recovers not percent of a small part of thejudgment but the lifetime benefit. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: Sometimes it would be a larger partof the benefit. It depends entirely on how long the casegoes on. It's entirely fluky, and in all of the cases,the lawyers come in and say percent. That's the max Ican get, and that's what I'm going to ask for. MR. SCHNAUFER: I think that, Justice Scalia, Ithink in this case it's useful to look at an example andsee what that percent cap actually does. Thegovernment in this case maintained that the noncontingenthourly rate was $ per attorney. Also the governmentdoes not dispute that the risk of loss is one in three andso a fully compensatory hourly rate would multiply thathourly rate times a three multiplier for $ an hour. However, in these cases, the actual, the percent capcame in, would have been met at $, $ and roughly$. QUESTION: But your multiplication assumes afictitious market. If I'm an attorney and I'm practicingin this area and I know I'm going to win only one out ofevery three cases, I'm going to tell the judge my hourlyrate in order to make a decent level in this part of thelaw and this special is X dollars an hour, $ an hour. I have to get that. And I take it the trial judge wouldsay yes, that's right, $ an hour is the prevailingrate. That's what you get. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. SCHNAUFER: Justice Kennedy, I believe thehourly --QUESTION: You, you, you made the assumption ofa, of a fictitious market. MR. SCHNAUFER: Justice Kennedy, I believe thatthe government concedes that there is a preloss in atypical Title II case and also the government's positionwas that the appropriate noncontingent win, lose or drawhourly rate was $ for one of these attorneys. Therefore, under the government scheme, paying $ anhour to an attorney for services will only mean that theonly grosses only $, roughly, roughly a third of thatamount. And so the way the government is counting, theestablishing of the hourly rate at $, admitting to theclass based risk of loss as one of not contesting that,can you see that the attorney's recovery is actually muchlower than that noncontingent hourly rate, given the --QUESTION: Well, it will be --QUESTION: Let me ask you a question I havebeen trying to get in for a while here. What would you,what would your reaction be to a rule that says thedistrict judges shall require the applicant for a fee toone, file any contract he has, two, file a statement ofhis hours, three, file his normal rate that he normallycharges and based on the district judge's knowledge of the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC proceedings, he shall set a reasonable fee? MR. SCHNAUFER: Justice Stevens, I believe thatthat would accomplish the goal readily, a local districtcourt could adopt such a rule which would be consistent in(b). I think that the court should also at the sametime consider whether or not there is any offsetting awardunder the Equal Access Justice Act. Also, whether or notthere is any fee, fee liability under (a). QUESTION: Well, the district court hereexpressed, perhaps it was a magistrate judge, expressedsome skepticism as to the number of hours, I think, put inon one of these cases. MR. SCHNAUFER: Mr. Chief Justice, I believethat the district court judge disputed whether there wasany special expertise involved. The government did notcontest that all the hours in these cases were reasonablyspent, the hours, the and the hours. QUESTION: Well, the fact the government didn'tcontest it doesn't mean that perhaps we shouldn't pay someattention to the view of the district judge. MR. SCHNAUFER: The district court judge didaward the number of hours requested. The district courtjudge did not reduce the hours at all in terms of thehours. I'd like to take the rest --QUESTION: Why should we consider the separate th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC fee under the equal access to justice act? A reasonablefee is a reasonable fee. Why does it matter that somemoney may be forthcoming from a different source to payfor it? MR. SCHNAUFER: The statute concerns how muchthe client will actually end up paying his or herattorneys that the Equal Access Justice Act --QUESTION: And it says that they should pay areasonable amount. MR. SCHNAUFER: All right. Yes. A reasonableamount. And for example, the out-of-pocket attorneys feesin this case with the EAJA offset was , for all threeclaimants who received $, in back benefits. And soin that context I believe that the attorney fees, thejudge should consider the equal access to justice actbecause how much the claimant pays is very important. QUESTION: How does it work under thefee-shifting --QUESTION: The equal access to justice fee isfor the benefit of the lawyer, rather than the client. MR. SCHNAUFER: The EAJA itself, the offsetprovision states that the attorney should keep the largerof the (b) and the EAJA fee so the statute itselfcontemplates that the attorney is entitled to the largerfee. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: In the context of a fee-shiftingstatute where EAJA applies, the lawyer gets the fees fromthe Defendant under EAJA. Can the lawyer have anagreement with the client that the client is going to payan override above, above what the lawyer gets from theDefendant? MR. SCHNAUFER: Yes. We rely quite heavily,Justice Ginsburg, on this Court's decision on Venegas vs.Mitchell, recognizing that an attorney fee paid by aclient to his or her own attorney can be in addition tothe amount of a fee-shifting statute. A fee-shiftingstatute such as the EAJA will not provide a fully againsttore fee in almost all cases. This is particularly truesince the EAJA's hourly rate has an artificial cap. It isnot the prevailing market rate based upon the attorney'sservices in the legal community. If I may, I take the --QUESTION: Very well, Mr. Schnaufer. Mr.Salmons, we will hear from you.ORAL ARGUMENT OF DAVID B. SALMONSON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTMR. SALMONS: Mr. Chief Justice, may it pleasethe Court: For three reasons the Court should use thelodestar method to determine and award a reasonableattorney's fee under the Social Security Act. First, thelodestar method best reflects the plain language and th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC purposes of Section (b). Second, it is consistent withthe strong presumption in favor of the lodestar approachannounced in this Court, attorneys' fees cases and thirdit best furthers the statute's directive that the feesawarded in each case must be reasonable. QUESTION: Does the lodestar method take intoaccount the contingent nature of the recovery? MR. SALMONS: Your Honor, the lodestar methodpermits district courts to take a number of factors intoaccount in determining the reasonable hourly rate and thereasonable fee under this Court's decision in Dague,however, courts are not permitted to increase what wouldotherwise be a reasonable fee based on the mere fact thatit was contingent. QUESTION: Would it be a reasonable fee if itincluded in the hourly rate reference to the fact thatthere is only a / success rate? As a judge, I want topractice in this area. I know the area very well. I winonly a third of the time, therefore my hourly rate takesinto account the fact that I'm going to win only a thirdof the time and my hourly rate is $ an hour. Can thedistrict judge accept that?MR. SALMONS: No, Your Honor. I think underDague that would not be permissible. This court in Dague -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: Then that's a false market thedistrict judge is using in order to award the fee. Idon't understand that. And, of course, I see theconsistency of your position because if you said yes wellthen I would say well doesn't the contingency fee do thesame thing. So I'm -- but -- I'm concerned about how thedistrict judge can award in effect just $ an hour. MR. SALMONS: Your Honor, I think there are atleast the three responses to that. First, this Court inDague rejected the notion that contingency enhancementswere necessary in order to determine a reasonable fee inthe context of fee-shifting statutes. QUESTION: What in that case, what statute werewe interpreting? MR. SALMONS: That involved Section , YourHonor. QUESTION: Yes. Not this one. MR. SALMONS: That's correct. QUESTION: Not cases like this where there is alow success rate, and where the language of the statutesays a reasonable fee. MR. SALMONS: Your Honor --QUESTION: I mean, why isn't the court, whycan't the court determine it as it wishes, so long as itfinds at the end of the day it's reasonable? An hourly th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC rate that it enhances somewhat or the risk factor, or evena contingent fee could be reasonable, as long as itdoesn't exceed percent. Doesn't this statutorylanguage leave that open? MR. SALMONS: Your Honor, I think the statutorylanguage is open to this Court and to courts generally toconstrue a standard that best furthers the purposes of theact. This Court has long held --QUESTION: Do you think the statute requiresthat one particular method be selected or does it leave itup to the judge? MR. SALMONS: Your Honor, it certainly leavesit up to courts. That's true in fee-shifting statutes aswell as with this statute. QUESTION: Well I'm not, I'm not sure thatfee-shifting statutes are necessarily an appropriateanalogy here because perhaps there is no reason forrequiring a Defendant to pay a lot of money because of anarrangement between the plaintiff and his attorney wascontingent, and the attorney doesn't win many cases. ButI think if you are talking about an agreement between theplaintiff and the client in the actual case, there may bemore of a case for it. MR. SALMONS: Your Honor, I think actually tothe contrary in the contempt of fee-shifting statutes this th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Court has long recognized that the purpose of thosestatutes is merely to encourage lawyers to undertake thatlitigation, and nevertheless, this Court has said that acontingent enhancement is not necessary to provide thatextra inducement that a lodestar calculation is adequateand appropriate in striking the balance that Congressintended when Congress only intends to encouragelitigation. In this context, by contrast, Section (b)is not merely a statute designed to encourage litigation,but is designed to protect Social Security claimants andtheir awards of back --QUESTION: I can't understand your positionthat a reasonable fee must be determined without regardsto the realities of the special practice. I just don'tunderstand that. MR. SALMONS: Your Honor, that, that is simplynot our position. It is not our position the courts mustbe blind to the realities of this practice. QUESTION: Is one of the realities that you canwin only a third of the time? MR. SALMONS: Well, those numbers obviouslyvary. Lawyers in this kind of environment are prevailingall of the time. QUESTION: Let's assume that that is a given inthe particular community and in the particular practice. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. SALMONS: Yes, Your Honor. I think thatone thing that's important to keep in mind is thatCongress struck the balance in this statute betweenprotecting claims and encouraging lawyers. QUESTION: In the case that I put, can thejudge or cannot the judge take into account the fact thatthe attorney is going to win only a third of the time? This is his only practice. This is all he does. He is aspecialist. MR. SALMONS: Your Honor, if what you mean bytake into account --QUESTION: That the hourly rate --MR. SALMONS: That the court can increase thehourly rate in order to provide a subsidy from prevailingSocial Security claimants to losing Social Securityclaimants, I think that would be inappropriate under thisstatute and under this Court's decisions in Dague, whichalthough it is a different context, I think the differenceis quite strongly in favor of applying the same rule here.QUESTION: It's not a subsidy. What's asubsidy? I mean the obvious, everybody has the samepoint. If you say they can only learn $ an hour, theSocial Security people won't be represented or they willpad their hours. Now, I can't believe Congress wantedthat. So, so there doesn't seem to be an answer to that, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC and Congress used the word may, so may means may. I mean,that's the simple argument. MR. SALMONS: That is correct, Your Honor. QUESTION: And it sounds to me so far there isno answer. MR. SALMONS: The point I was making is that itcertainly is available to this Court to set a standard forcourts to apply. QUESTION: If it's available, why wouldn't wedo it? MR. SALMONS: That's what I was trying toaddress, Your Honor. QUESTION: All right. MR. SALMONS: I think the reason why this Courtshould not adopt a rule that would require the shifting ofbenefits in effect from successful Social Security --QUESTION: That's what I asked. What do youmean shifting of benefits? It's not a -- a subsidy iswhere you take some money and you pay for somebody to dosomething. I don't see why you call this a subsidy. That's a conclusion. What they are doing here is they arecharging what it costs them to provide service to Smith,and it is what it costs because in the absence of this,Smith won't get the service. Nor will Jones and Brown,they are apt to lose. But particularly Smith won't. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. SALMONS: But Your Honor, that's notnecessarily true. I mean, individual cases, the riskinessof individual cases is going to vary widely. QUESTION: Smith is paying, Smith is paying forthe work done for the two guys who lost. MR. SALMONS: That's correct. That's exactlyright. And that's the way this Court --QUESTION: One way to word that. MR. SALMONS: That's the way this Courtaddressed it. QUESTION: Okay. Well, why shouldn't we lookat it that way? MR. SALMONS: That same analysis --QUESTION: But why should we look at it thatway since Smith is also paying for what it costs to serveSmith? MR. SALMONS: Your Honor, I think that thereason this Court should view contingency enhancements inthis context as inappropriate is because of the purpose ofthe statute primarily designed to protect the benefits ofsuccessful Social Security claims. QUESTION: Well but the statute itself speaks,sets a kept, a contingent fee of no more than percent. I mean the statute itself refers to that as a cap. MR. SALMONS: The statute has -- that's th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC correct, Your Honor. And the statute has two provisions. One is that it sets an upper bound of a reasonable feewhich is percent but more precisely -- QUESTION: That does not suggest that there cannever be a contingency factor, does it? MR. SALMONS: It does not necessarily suggestthat, no. What we are talking -- what I think thequestion as Justice Breyer posed was more an a policylevel, why should this Court adopt a rule that would allowthose kinds of enhancements and I think one of the reasonswhy that's inappropriate in this context is because thepurpose here is not just to encourage lawyers to takethese cases, which was the case in the fee-shiftingstatutes where this Court said enhancements aren'tnecessary. The purpose here is to protect claimants andit would be particularly inappropriate --QUESTION: Well, is the purpose to give faircompensation to members of the bar? MR. SALMONS: That is, that is a purpose, but Iwould submit, Your Honor, that in regards to the languagewe are focusing on of the reasonable fee, that is not theprimary purpose. There is a separate provision in (b)where Congress addressed the question of the problem ofencouraging lawyers to take these lawsuits. QUESTION: Suppose you had a good friend and he th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC said I'm going to go into Social Security work. I, I knowthe area very well. It's going to be my specialty. I'mgoing to win a third of the time. I'm going to in effectget $ an hour. Would you advice him to go into thatpart of the practice? MR. SALMONS: Your Honor, that would probablydepend on what some of his alternatives were. I don'tmean that in any sort of derogatory way, but it is not thecase that lawyers cannot make a sufficient wage under thelodestar method. It's important to remember that thereare at least six circuits who have been applying thelodestar method. QUESTION: May I ask you in a way what you meanby the lodestar method. I know we have talked about it ina lot of cases, but would it be a satisfactory compliancewith the lodestar method in your view of the case if everyjudge said to every lawyer, file your time sheet with me,I want to know your hours, I want to know your regularcharge, and I want to see the contract you have got, and Iknow a lot about the case, I'll fix the fee. Would thatsatisfy your view? MR. SALMONS: Your Honor, that would certainlybe a one way to interpret a statute that I think on thetext of the statute there is nothing that would prohibitit. I think there are strong reasons why this Court may th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC want to provide some guidance. QUESTION: Well, the guidance is --MR. SALMONS: For federal rules. QUESTION: You should take into account thehours, the general charge that he makes and the success inthe case and whatever contract he has made and then youwould know the case, you decide the reasonable fee. Andwe don't want to have a -month argument under lodestarmethod about what the, you know, one of the things we wantto avoid is protracted litigation in these cases, so wewant to simplify it. I think you would agree that'sdesirable? MR. SALMONS: I do agree that's desirable, butI think the lodestar method is the best way to could that.QUESTION: And I'm just wondering if what Ipropose to be a sufficient compliance with the lodestarmethod to satisfy the government? MR. SALMONS: Your Honor, I think it wouldlargely be in compliance with lodestar method, althoughnot under this Court's decision in Dague which hasprohibited the consideration of contingency enhancements. QUESTION: Did that, did that prohibition ofcontingency enhancements apply in the context such as thiswhere it was only legally possible to charge when you win?MR. SALMONS: No, Your Honor, that was not the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC context of . QUESTION: Might not that make a difference? It's one thing to say well, if you don't, if you don'tcharge anything for your losing cases, that's yourproblem. You ought to charge. And we are not going toallow you to conduct that practice and make, make thisplaintiff pay for the, for the two who you lost. But whenyou are in a different context where the only time you canget fees by law is where you win, would we have to pay,would we have to adopt the same rule? MR. SALMONS: Your Honor, I think this Courtshould adopt the same rule and it's because the reasonsthis Court adopted the rule that it did in the context offee-shifting statutes was not because there was still somepossibility that lawyers could negotiate fees even thatwon on a contingent basis. QUESTION: What's the government's position,supposing one of the Social Security lawyers has a verywealthy client who feels he is entitled to Social Securityas a course he is just like everybody else. He hasn'tbeen paid it, and says to the lawyer, I'll pay you $ anhour if, for all the work you put on this case because Iam determined to get that Social Security. Do you think(b) prohibits that? MR. SALMONS: Um -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: He doesn't want to get it out of thejudgment at all. He says I'll bill you for it afterwards.MR. SALMONS: Your Honor, the commissioner doesinterpret (b) to require only contingent fees, that itprohibits a lawyer from charging fees when there is noaward of back benefits. QUESTION: A maximum wouldn't make any senseotherwise. I mean, the maximum is percent of the backpay award. If there is no back pay award, you can chargeas much as you like. I mean, that's strange. MR. SALMONS: We think that in light of, of theterms of (b), its purpose is in the structure with,with the provision that would make it in fact a crime tocharge more. But the best way to read that is to requirethat only fees that have been authorized by a court can becharged. QUESTION: Has the commission ever issued anopinion to that effect? MR. SALMONS: No, Your Honor. There is noregulation that simply addresses that. To be honest withyou, it is not an issue that has really come up becauselawyers as the record here again reflects, have auniversal practice of entering into fee agreements thatsay percent contingency at the statutory maximum andtheir contingent fees so it's just not an issue that comes th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC up. QUESTION: So the statute says all fees arecontingent and the government says there can be nocontingent fees? That's where we are in this case? MR. SALMONS: No, Your Honor. The statute saysthe relevant language of the statute says the courts willdetermine a reasonable fee, and we --QUESTION: But all fees are contingent onsuccess. In other words, there is some confusion, Ithink, of what the term contingent fee means. Nobody getsa fee if they lose. At least the secretaries interpretedthe statute as long as I know to say that the only timethat the lawyer is going to recover is if the plaintiffguess benefits, is that right? MR. SALMONS: That is correct. QUESTION: Okay. And then the question iswhat's, what this provision requires. One just reactionthat I had to this picture is well, in tort litigation,the standard is a third of the recovery. And why isn'there, why isn't a quarter of the recovery eminentlyreasonable considering as was pointed out that therecovery comes only out of the past benefits. No --nothing out of the future benefits the person is going toget. So what is it about the percent of past benefits? It doesn't just make a whole lot of sense instead of th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC engaging in what we know from this very case, we'll takeas much time as the calculation, as the dispute over thebenefits themselves. The litigation here over the feestook as long as the litigation over the claimant's rightto benefits. MR. SALMONS: Your Honor, let me if I mayaddress your last point first. That is to say that thecommissioner's experience with the lodestar method in thenumerous circuits that apply it is not that it isdifficult to apply, but keep in mind, Your Honors, that inmost of these cases, the lawyers are also seeking EAJAfees and so the very same court that's going to considerthe (b) fee claim has already undertaken a lodestaranalysis to determine a reasonable number of hours andthen the rate is determined by EAJA, but thecommissioner's experience is that the lodestar method isnot difficult to apply and in the vast majority of cases,certainly in most circuits, the commissioner doesn'tobject to most of the fee claims because they arereasonable. The courts have determined standards for whatreasonable rates are in the relevant prevailing markets. QUESTION: You mentioned EAJA. One of theproblems that I have with that analogy is it works outhere that you get EAJA is just about this it. These threelawyers got what, what EAJA permitted. And then th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC fee-shifting statutes generally you get from the Defendantwhat EAJA allows you, but then you can have, you canrecover more from your own client. Here it works out thatEAJA is it and it seems to me something unfair about that.MR. SALMONS: Your Honor, I think the onlything unfair in that sense is that Congress here hasdetermined that the market for legal services in theSocial Security context was failing to carry out thepurposes of the Social Security Act, and that lawyers hadunequal bargaining power and were charging inordinatelylarge contingency fees --QUESTION: But those were the days you weretalking about percent contingent fees so Congress cutit back to , so why -- what --MR. SALMONS: That's correct. QUESTION: What -- you just said well, notin every case, maybe only work two hours, it would beunreasonable, but instead of having the judge and thelawyers go through this whole thing, I mean, EAJA isavailable only if the government's position was notsubstantially justified, right? It's not automatic. MR. SALMONS: That's correct. That's correct. It's a standard that course seem to find on a regularbasis in these cases, but that is the standard. QUESTION: Does the government -- I don't know th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC how it works, but when someone is seeking benefits fromthe government, government has prevailed all through theagency, loses in court, does the government just sort ofconcede that the government's position was notsubstantially justified? MR. SALMONS: Not necessarily, Your Honor. Ithink the government lawyers in each case would look atthe prevailing circuit law or, of the jurisdiction, wouldlook at the facts of the case and make the determination. In most of these cases, EAJA fees seem to be awarded andthe resolution of those fees doesn't take a lot of time. QUESTION: Well, shouldn't there about, you sayyou look at the law of the particular circuit. I wouldthink that a concept like was the government's positionsubstantially justified shouldn't be whatever it means in,in different appellate courts. MR. SALMONS: My point, Your Honor, is just oneof the things I think that's keeping, is important to keepin mind in these cases is that they, by their nature, tendto be very routine and so both in terms of awarding EAJAfees and in terms of awarding (b) fees, it is not verydifficult for courts to develop practices in these casesthat, that result in a very expedited process, and that infact, that is, that is the way the lodestar method isapplied and I, and it seems to me, Your Honors, that the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC alternative that's being proposed would largely frustratethe purpose that Justice Stevens was identifying of theneed for some sort of expedited procedures here. Theypoint to four additional factors that aren't lodestarfactors that they think courts should take into account. Some of the contingency circuits who haveadopted some modified contingency rule have addedadditional factors, including requiring courts to askwhether the claimants had been notified that there wereother options other than the percent contingent feewhich under the facts of this case we were told thelawyers would never do. QUESTION: Does the government have anystatistics as to how often an award of attorneys fees by adistrict judge is appealed to the Court of Appeals? MR. SALMONS: Your Honor, that is, in thecontext of (b) cases? QUESTION: Yes. MR. SALMONS: There are no -- the agency doesnot specifically keep statistics on that, although I diddiscuss that with the relevant agency personnel and wasinformed that in fact the agency very rarely seeks anappeal unless the case involves some broader legalprinciple that the agency determines is important tolitigation. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: How about the attorney? MR. SALMONS: I do not have any figures onthat, Your Honor. QUESTION: Mr. Salmons, another question ofstatistics. We have had the statistic that only one outof three cases is successful. And I take it you have notchallenged that. That's one of the arguments that thereis something that is really outrageous practice going onand there is a need to enhance for that contingency. WhatI want to ask is are there any, is there any evidence,statistical or otherwise, to explain why the rate is onlyone win out of three cases? One reason might be that, or one descriptionmight be that virtually all lawyers who take these casesin fact have the experience of losing two for every one. But another explanation might be that lawyers who can tellthe difference between a good case and a bad case win at avery high rate, and that a lot of young lawyers who don'thave access to many clients are willing to take long shotsand that when you average those two together, you bet theone win out of three cases. Do we know, do we know which possibledescription is correct or whether there is some thirddescription that explains the one in three? MR. SALMONS: Your Honor, I'm not aware of any th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC statistical or other information that's directly on point,although I could think it is important to keep in mindthat the standards of review among other things have a lotto do with the outcome of these cases, and that, and thatthe general statistics that the courts provide through,for example, the federal judiciary home page that tracksdifferent types of cases in different circuits, forexample, shows that there has been dramatic increases inthe number of Title II disability lawsuits that are filedinitially in district courts between the period of to. In fact, that they have tripled. QUESTION: Does that have anything to do withwhat the rate is because these are all cases that lost atthe administrative level, right? MR. SALMONS: That's correct. QUESTION: Is there any, any showing that maybein the prior period, there were more cases winning at theadministrative level, therefore fewer getting into thecourt? MR. SALMONS: Not that I have seen. In fact,Your Honor, the numbers that I have seen suggest that thepercentage of cases that win before the agency has beenrelatively consistent. QUESTION: I don't understand the point wereyou driving at. So what, so they tripled in years, you th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC know, and the ice cap melted. MR. SALMONS: I surely don't want to overstateit. QUESTION: I don't understand what you weredriving at. What was the point that you were making? MR. SALMONS: The point I was attempting to make,Your Honor --QUESTION: Is this the result of those, ofthose jurisdictions that have allowed contingency to beconsidered? MR. SALMONS: No. Not at all. Your Honor. The point I was trying to make is that there aren't anyhard statistics that show how the different legal ruleshave having an effect on litigants in this context, butthe general --QUESTION: And likewise, I take it there are nostatistics on how the different compensation approachesare having an effect? MR. SALMONS: That's correct. And that's,that's the point I was trying to make, Your Honor. Thatall that we can tell is that one, the commissioner has notbeen flooded with complaints in the circuits that appliedthe lodestar, which is the dominant method and has beenfor over years. QUESTION: Do you have any flooded in the other th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC jurisdictions? MR. SALMONS: No. My point is that there are,there are, there is no reason to think that the rules arehaving that dramatic of an effect on the availability ofcounsel.QUESTION: Then why don't we leave it alone? Let the judge do it? MR. SALMONS: That is certainly an option thatis before this Court. The government's position is thatif the Court is going to address the issue of whatstandards should be applied, that the best way for thisCourt to do it is to specify that the lodestar method isthe best method, and that includes --QUESTION: But that is a pretty big swing ifyou say if the judge can go up to percent if that'sreasonable, here what was the percent, the lodestarpercent, the lodestar yielded what percent of the past twobenefits in these cases? MR. SALMONS: Your Honor, I don't have thatfigure. I can tell you that in terms of hourly rates, forexample, I --QUESTION: Wasn't it about half of what thecontingency would have been? QUESTION: Even less, I think. MR. SALMONS: It varied in the, in the cases. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: I think it was under percent. MR. SALMONS: I think one way to sort of tryand track that is that what the claimants lawyers in thesecases did was because they recognized they were in alodestar circuit, they had, they kept the same number ofreasonable hours they would use for their EAJA fees whichthe government did not contest and then they just dividedthat by the percent figure and came up with an hourlyrate. So the hourly rates they sought in these casesranged from around $ an hour to nearly $ an hour. QUESTION: But those were chopped down by thejudge. MR. SALMONS: That's correct. QUESTION: Because they were not supposed to,at least this Court, the Court here did it. It took outfollowing this Court's precedent any override for risk ofnonsuccess. MR. SALMONS: That's right, Your Honor. TheNinth Circuit has --QUESTION: So I'm not talking about the ratesthat the lawyers asked for, I'm talking about the ratesthat they got. My concern is this. If you just say welljudge, look at the agreement. Look at the hourly rate. You can get swings from one court saying as I think wastrue here, . percent to another judge saying in that th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC very same case percent. That's why I think you have tohave a little more control, a little more uniformity. MR. SALMONS: Your Honor, let me make twopoints very quickly. One is that when Congress enactedthis statute, it recognized not only that lawyers werecharging an inordinately large percentage in terms oftheir contingency fees, but there was an inherent problemwith contingency fees because in this context they do nottrack the value, a reasonable value of legal services. They turn unnecessarily on factors such as the number ofdependents and the amount of delay that it takes in orderto get the benefits over which time the benefits continuedto accrue which just has no bearing whatsoever on theamount, the value of the legal services provider. QUESTION: Are you recommending that we say letthe judge do it, no matter what? Is that the government'sposition? I thought the government was coming in with apretty stiff position that it's the lodestar methodperiod. MR. SALMONS: That is the government'sposition, Your Honor. We think that the lodestar method. Let me just see if I can, and be very clear. QUESTION: Your position is that we do not wantto subsidize bad suits? MR. SALMONS: Yes. That is exactly right. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: It is not in the best interests ofanybody, the country or anybody else, to encourage lawyersto bring bad suits and then get paid for it when they wina good suit, right? QUESTION: I was wondering if you had spent alot of time --QUESTION: This is certainly a way to getlawyers in the good suits. MR. SALMONS: But, Your Honor, there is no,there is no evidence of that. And in fact the evidencethat it does exist is to the contrary. There are sixcircuits that have been employing the lodestar method for,for decades without any evidence that there is a failureof lawyers who want to take these cases. The lawyers inthese cases submitted affidavits that said we, we practiceregularly in federal courts in Title II cases and we havebeen doing it for years and years and that's in thecontext of lodestar statutes. QUESTION: Why not make it run the same way theveterans' benefits do? I mean, after all, it's a similarkind of set up. You claim that if it's at the agency, youlose, you come to court, and there it's the agreement is percent, so it's, but that seems to be working fine,right? Where the judge gives the percent. MR. SALMONS: Your Honor, that would certainly th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC be an alternative availability to Congress. Thedifference would be the statutory language would prohibitthis Court from adopting a rule that would look primarilyto the fee contracts. Congress knows how to write thatkind of statute when it wants to. It did so in (a)(). It has not done so here. Another point I would like tomake, Your Honor, is that, is that these cases are, asboth sides seem to agree, are somewhat unique in that theygenerally require a very low number of hours. They don'trequire the same kinds of risk undertaken by the lawyersas other contingent fee cases do. QUESTION: Well, if that's so then the judge inall the circuits that follow the contingent method wouldreduce the award. I mean, in one way you are going tostart with the lodestar enhance. In the other way you aregoing to start with the contingent fee reduce it. I guessthe simpler is the contingent fee reduce it. I thinkfrankly you don't have to go into the hours. MR. SALMONS: I disagree, Your Honor, becauseof the court's experience, the lodestar method, I thinkthat's the most efficient way for courts to determine thefee. QUESTION: Beyond the record, do you have anystatistics on how often contingent fees are reduced in thecontingency circuits? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. SALMONS: I do not, Your Honor. I do not. One other thing that I think --QUESTION: Do you have any sort of egregiousexamples where there was a lot of delay in those circuitsjust to build up the recovery? Has that turned out to bea problem for the agency anywhere? MR. SALMONS: Your Honor, the agency has notexperienced any particular problem under either of thesestandards. We do think that the lodestar method as thisCourt announced it in Dague is the best way to effectuateCongress' intent under the purposes of this statute. Ithink it's important to keep in mind that Congress hasalready provided a mechanism to ensure adequate counselhere, and that is the payment out of the back benefitawards directly to the lawyer. That's different than inother contingent fee contexts. So that Congress was concerned with the need toencourage counsel and it provided a provision to do that. It struck the balance, and then it requires the courts todetermine the reasonable fee in each case based on a fairvalue of the legal services provided and this Court haslong held that there is a strong presumption that whenCongress says courts determine a reasonable fee, Congressmeans the lodestar method. If the lodestar method -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: That wasn't even established untilHensley against -- whatever it is. The lodestar gotsettled around in the circuits in the s. SocialSecurity claims have been going on a long time. Wasn't itstandard before, but it was contingent? MR. SALMONS: Your Honor, courts used a varietyof standards before as they did under other fee statutes. The fact that the lodestar method wasn't fully developeddidn't prevent this Court from adopting it under the CivilRights Act of , for example, but prior to the adoptionof the lodestar method, it's not the case the courts wereroutinely deferring to the fee contracts. QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. Salmons. Mr.Schnaufer, you have two minutes remaining.REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF ERIC SCHNAUFERON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTSMR. SCHNAUFER: Yes, Mr. Chief Justice. Ibelieve that the government's position is a bold newposition. The government has not previously advancedexcept for in its brief that all circuits are wrong, thateven the lodestar jurisdictions are wrong. That no onecan, no enhancements for contingencies can ever bepermitted and so the agency cannot rely on the experiencein the circuit lodestar to say that this method is thepreferable method. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Claimants need attorneys. In these cases thegovernment conceded that the agency's position, underlyingagency position was not substantially justified withoutattorneys whose claimants most likely would never receivethe benefits that they were due. Justice Stevens, youasked about possibly about the EAJA of lodestar. Thereare many reasons why the EAJA, Equal Access Justice Act isnot the lodestar amount. The EAJA has an artificialhourly rate capped below the prevailing market rate. TheEAJA also often represents a settlement of the parties forthe risk of litigating the substantial justificationissue. And so we cannot rely, just because there is anEqual Access Justice Act award, there is not in the casealready a lodestar amount. Then I guess I think it allows this Court todistinguish easily Dague. Dague should not be appliedoutside of the fee-shifting context because as itsrequest, a plaintiff should be able to pay his or her ownattorney to take into account the risk of loss. JusticeO'Connor, I think was asking whether or not contingencycould be taken into account by a district court indetermining the fee. I believe that if this Court candirect that the lodestar method be adopted to enhance forcontingency reflecting the necessary contingent nature ofthe claim or the court can use a contingent fee method, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC there again looking at the contingent nature of the fee,regardless of which way the court goes, the court allowsmore than one method. I brief that the contingent natureof Social Security cases should be taken into account. The government describes dependence. Thegovernment objects that attorney fee awards would bearbitrarily different based upon the number of dependents. The government lost that issue in Hopkins vs. Cohen in. This Court held in Hopkins the number -- thank you,Mr. Chief Justice. CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: Thank you, Mr.Schnaufer. The case is submitted. (Whereupon, at : p.m., the case in theabove-entitled matter was submitted.) th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC 