 IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XLARRY HOPE, Petitioner ::v. : No. -MARK PELZER, ET AL., :- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XWashington, D.C.Wednesday, April , The above-entitled matter came on for oralargument before the Supreme Court of the United States at: a.m.APPEARANCES:CRAIG T. JONES, ESQ., Atlanta, Georgia; on behalf ofthe Petitioner.AUSTIN C. SCHLICK, ESQ., Assistant to the SolicitorGeneral, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; onbehalf of the United States, as amicus curiae,supporting the Petitioner.NATHAN A. FORRESTER, ESQ., Solicitor General of Alabama,Montgomery, Alabama; on behalf of the Respondents.GENE C. SCHAERR, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf ofMissouri, et al., as amici curiae, supporting theRespondents. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC C O N T E N T SORAL ARGUMENT OF CRAIG T. JONES, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioner ORAL ARGUMENT OFAUSTIN C. SCHLICK, ESQ.On behalf of the United States, as amicus curiae,supporting the Petitioner ORAL ARGUMENT OFNATHAN A. FORRESTER, ESQ.On behalf of the Respondents ORAL ARGUMENT OFGENE C. SCHAERR, ESQ.On behalf of Missouri, et al., as amici curiae,supporting the Respondents PAGE th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC P R O C E E D I N G S(: a.m.)CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: We'll hear argumentnow in Number -, Larry Hope v. Mark Pelzer.Mr. Jones.ORAL ARGUMENT OF CRAIG T. JONESON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERMR. JONES: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice, andmay it please the Court:Under United States v. Lanier, the law wasclearly established for purposes of qualified immunitywhen it gives officials fair warning that their conduct isunlawful. The fair warning standard is met when a rulelaid out by prior law applies with obvious clarity to theconduct in question, even if the rule arises from a caseinvolving different facts.The materially similar facts requirement of theEleventh Circuit is an unwarranted gloss upon the fairwarning standard, just like the fundamentally similarfacts requirement which this Court unanimously rejected inLanier. It is an impermissible gloss because itemphasizes similarity of fact over clarity of ruling.QUESTION: And what should be the rule that yousay was violated here? If we write out the opinion, we'dsay the rule that the officer should have known is, and we th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC have to fill in the blank. What is that rule?MR. JONES: The rule established by the EleventhCircuit's own precedent is that it is unconstitutional topunish an inmate through the use of restraint, andrestraint is punitive if it goes beyond the point in timewhich is necessary to quell a disturbance or immediatethreat.QUESTION: Does the include solitaryconfinement?MR. JONES: No, Your Honor. Restraint involvestotal physical immobility coupled with the pain anddiscomfort attendant to that.QUESTION: And what case establishes thatproposition?MR. JONES: Well, there is a --QUESTION: Any physical restraint is unlawful. What case establishes that?MR. JONES: Physical restraint, the precedentsspeak of physical restraint to a fixed object.QUESTION: Yes, and what precedent inparticular?MR. JONES: Gates v. Collier is the first caseof a body of law which has developed in our circuit,Justice Scalia. Gates v. Collier was a Fifth Circuitdecision which was binding upon the present Eleventh th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Circuit and it held that a variety of forms of corporalpunishment --QUESTION: That's my problem. It was a wholevariety. They didn't say that any single one. I mean, asI recall that case, there are a number of instances ofbrutality against prisoners, and the holding of that casewas that that was cruel and unusual punishment, but Idon't recall that case saying that any single one of themany instances that the case recited, one of which wasphysical restraint, would qualify.MR. JONES: Your Honor, the Fifth Circuitdecision in Gates affirmed a district court decision whichspecifically enjoined each and every one of thosepunishments, and the fact that --QUESTION: And you think that amounts to aholding that any single one of them would have violatedthe Eighth Amendment?MR. JONES: Yes, Your Honor, if used punitively,that is correct, and --QUESTION: But the court ordered stopping eachand every one of those measures. Wasn't that the natureof the injunctive degree, not just a combination of them,but each one?MR. JONES: Yes, Justice Ginsburg. This was nota case where the court viewed the totality of the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC circumstances and said that the conditions constitutedcruel and usual punishment and ordered the State ofMississippi to build a new prison. This was a case wherethe State was specifically enjoined --QUESTION: Did the reasoning follow that line?MR. JONES: Well --QUESTION: Was the reasoning of the opinion, didit examine each one individually and say each oneindividually was cruel and unusual?MR. JONES: It examined a variety of practices,and those practices were discussed in a subsection calledcorporal punishment. The fact that Gates involvedmultiple holdings does not make it any less important inclearly establishing the law, otherwise a case could onlyclearly establish the law if it had a single holding. Thefact that Gates v. Collier drew multiple bright lines asopposed to a single bright line did not make --QUESTION: Do we need --MR. JONES: Yes.QUESTION: In this case, do we need to get intothe issue, Mr. Jones of what this Court's holdings amountto on this subject, or are we just limiting ourselves tothe Eleventh Circuit, perhaps the old Fifth Circuit?MR. JONES: With respect to the underlyingconstitutional violation, or with respect to qualified th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC immunity analysis?QUESTION: With respect to each.MR. JONES: Well, Your Honor, this Court hasnever squarely addressed the constitutionality ofcontinued restraint as a form of corporal punishment. Ithas acknowledged in decisions that restraints can beharmful.yes.QUESTION: I suppose one would have to do that,MR. JONES: Yes, that's correct.QUESTION: Are you relying on anything beyondthe restraint itself? I mean, in the facts that have beenrecited, the facts include leaving the individual in thesun without a shirt on, and not giving him bathroombreaks, and pouring water out in front of him to taunthim. Are you relying upon those features?MR. JONES: Not as -- not for the propositionthat the law was clearly established, with regard to thosefacts. Those facts are certainly relevant on the issue ofthe damages suffered by the -- QUESTION: Well, do we have to assume that thefacts as alleged are true for purposes of deciding whethersummary judgment is appropriate?MR. JONES: Based -- Justice O'Connor, basedupon the grant of certiorari by the Court, the issues th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC raised in the petition, and the grant, I think that iscorrect.QUESTION: I would assume we -- I gather we justassume those are correct for purposes of evaluating thesummary judgment question.MR. JONES: I think that is correct.QUESTION: And the Eleventh Circuit decidedthere was a constitutional violation?MR. JONES: Yes, Your Honor.QUESTION: And there was no cross-appeal onthat.MR. JONES: That is correct, Your Honor.QUESTION: So do we take that as a given, too?MR. JONES: I think that this case is likeSaucier, where the Court acknowledged that the first stepbe the inquiry of whether there was a constitutionalviolation made out by the facts. That was resolved by thecircuit court.QUESTION: Well, that gets back to the ChiefJustice's question, and I'm wondering again if the Courtwrites the opinion giving you the judgment that you seek,isn't it necessary for us to say, a) this law was clearlyestablished, and b) it is a correct interpretation, acorrect exposition of the Cruel and Unusual PunishmentClause, so we are -- it would be a rather odd holding for th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC us to say, well, this was established in the EleventhCircuit, but we're not telling you whether or not that wasright.MR. JONES: Well, I think, Justice Kennedy,because the certiorari was only granted on the second partof the Saucier test, that is, on the clearly establishedinquiry, the Court could limit its ruling to the issue ofwhether the law was clearly established and whether,specifically whether the Eleventh Circuit applied theproper standards in determining whether --QUESTION: Well, maybe Justice Kennedy issuggesting that it's fairly included within the questiongranted, that it's quite impossible for a judge to saythat it does or does not violate a clearly establishedconstitutional principle if he doesn't think that itviolates a constitutional principle at all, clearlyestablished or otherwise. I mean, isn't -- doesn't -- theone sort of wrapped up in the other?MR. JONES: Yes, Your Honor, and I think that itis fairly included. My point is that --QUESTION: I take it your position, though, isthat all we have to decide is whether the substantiallysimilar standard is the proper standard, and if we say no,it's not, that's like Lanier, which was -- what was it? --substantially identical, I guess, wasn't it, something th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC like that?similar --MR. JONES: The verdict was fundamentallyQUESTION: Fundamentally, yes. MR. JONES: --in Lanier.QUESTION: And if we say that that gloss, thesubstantially similar gloss was wrong, what you want us todo is simply vacate and send the thing back, or do youwant us to go further and say, no, in fact, there -- wedetermined that there can be no sovereign -- that therecan be no qualified immunity here, because if we have togo the second step, then we have to get into the issue, itseems to me, that Justice Kennedy has raised.MR. JONES: Your Honor, I believe that thefirst -- the issue of whether there's a constitutionalviolation is fairly included within the questions whichwere granted by the Court.QUESTION: All right. Now, if that's what we'regoing to get into, so we will determine what the violationwas and then get to immunity with respect to thatparticular violation, we won't confine ourselves simply tothe substantially similar verbiage, then I go back to myearlier question, and I take it -- and I think you'veanswered it, but I want to make sure I understand you --for purposes of determining whether there's a th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC constitutional violation, you are not arguing, I take it,that we should take into consideration the particularcircumstances of the day, the heat, the shirt, thebathroom breaks, the water, is that correct? All we lookat is the restraint itself?MR. JONES: Yes, Your Honor, because the conductof these defendants was to restrain this man as a form ofpunishment.QUESTION: And some of the allegations of thefacts have been questioned, and one point was about thelack of bathroom breaks. There's nothing in thepleadings -- the pleadings didn't allege lack of bathroombreaks, and how does that get into the cases if the othercircuits didn't mention that either?MR. JONES: Well, I think it got into the casebecause the respondents wanted to argue the case ratherthan the law.QUESTION: But that had not been found below,and it hadn't been even asserted in the complaint, is thatcorrect?MR. JONES: Yes, that is correct, except to theextent that the affidavit of the plaintiff was referenced,I think incorporated by reference into the pleadings.QUESTION: And the plaintiffs affidavit saidthat specifically, that he wasn't allowed bathroom breaks? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. JONES: The plaintiff's affidavit is that hewas left on the hitching post for hours, and the fairinference that can be drawn from that is that he wasrestrained for hours without breaks, and there'scertainly no evidence rebutting that with respect to thesecond incident, which he was on the hitching post.The first incident he was on the hitching post,there is evidence that he was given one bathroom break,and he was taken down that incident only after hours,which in itself is --QUESTION: That, we got into that. That is, Ithink, disputed even as to the first instance because Ithink that the State said he had been offered other breaksbut he had declined them. Well, that's one thing, andanother argument that was made about the background, ifwe're going to get anything beyond the hitching, that theparticular officers' names were not involved in some ofthe worst aspects of that.That is, the officers that are named defendantshere didn't tell Hope to take off his shirt, and didn'tpour water in front of him and have the dogs drink it. Those were other people who are not named defendants, andyou don't contest that, do you?MR. JONES: I do not contest that reading of therecord, Justice Ginsburg. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: They didn't keep him on there for hours, as far as we know. Do we know that they were incharge of how long he would stay there?MR. JONES: We do not know that, Your Honor,although we do know that it was their expectation that hebe restrained indefinitely. Findings in other casesindicate that -- including the published case of Austin v.Hopper, indicate that inmates were routinely left on thehitching post for the remainder of the day.QUESTION: You say indefinitely. According tothe prison policy, they were kept on until they agreed togo back to the work crew without disrupting it, so that hecould have been released at any time that he said I'mready to go back on the work crew and do the work, right?MR. JONES: Justice --QUESTION: That's what the prison policy says,anyway.MR. JONES: Well --QUESTION: Now, is the contention in this casethat he was prepared to -- you see, I don't understandwhat they could have done. Here is a prison that has apolicy of having work crews. You don't contend thatthat's cruel and unusual punishment, right?MR. JONES: That is correct.QUESTION: And the allegation is that this th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC prisoner refused to work in one case, and disrupted a workcrew in another case, and according to the prisonpolicy -- I mean, you have to do something when he doesthat. To take him back and say, oh, you know, you've gotto go back to prison, he says yes, that's exactly what Iwant. What was the prison supposed to do?MR. JONES: Well, Justice Scalia, in bothinstances he was being punished for fighting. He wasbeing punished for --QUESTION: Disrupting the work crew.MR. JONES: For an altercation.QUESTION: Okay.MR. JONES: An altercation which subsided at thework site, which was miles away from the prison property,and after he -- in each instant after he was restrainedand subdued, and whatever disruption he was a part of hadabated, he was put into a van for minutes withoutincident, another minutes were spent transporting himto the facility without incident, he was then walkedwithout incident, without the necessity for the use offorce, to the post.QUESTION: And the work rules were not broughtup by the State. The Eleventh Circuit said specifically,we are not going to consider these work rules because theywere never put in the district court record as a reason th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC for the officer's behavior in question.MR. JONES: That is correct, Justice Ginsburg,and if they were in the record, the evidence would also bethey were not followed, which was also consistent with thefinding of the Middle District of Alabama in the case ofAustin v. Hopper.QUESTION: Quickly, what are we supposed to takeas the fact? Do we take the fact in the second affidavitof Larry Hope?MR. JONES: Yes.QUESTION: Okay. There's nothing about bathroombreaks in that.MR. JONES: That is correct, but the criticaltime element here is the time it took them between thetime that the disruption had abated and the time that theydecided to punish him for past conduct which had occurredan hour earlier and miles away. That is the criticaltime element, not the amount of time --QUESTION: You say it's critical. Why is thatcritical? I mean, must they decide to punish himinstantaneously or never?MR. JONES: It's critical, Your Honor, becauserestraint is not a proper form of punishment under thosecircumstances. They can suspend privileges, they can takeaway TV -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: You say no kind of restraint ispermissible?MR. JONES: Not as a form of punishment. Ifthey need to restrain him to maintain order and disciplineat the scene of exigent circumstances, that's perfectlyproper.QUESTION: Or to make him go back to work. Yousay that that issue is not in this case. You say thatthere's not in this case the fact, contended by the State,that the only reason he was restrained was to get him toagree to go back to the work crew, and that as soon as hesaid okay, I'll go back and I won't disrupt it any more,he would have been released. You say that's not in thecase.MR. JONES: Yes, Your Honor, because if youfight with five prison guards, you're not going to be ableto escape punishment simply by --QUESTION: So we should leave open -- even if wedecide in your favor, you want us to leave open thequestion of whether this prison could follow the policythat it has in effect, namely, only restraining peoplethis way as a means of inducing them to go back to thework crew. That would be left open.MR. JONES: Yes, Your Honor. We're notattacking the policy. We're attacking the conduct which th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC was used in this case in violation of clearly establishedlaw.Thank you.QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. Jones.Mr. Schlick, we'll hear from you.ORAL ARGUMENT OF AUSTIN C. SCHLICKON BEHALF OF THE UNITED STATES, AS AMICUS CURIAE,SUPPORTING THE PETITIONERMR. SCHLICK: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court:An official is immune from personal liabilityfor violating Federal rights unless the violation wouldhave been clear to a reasonable officer. Where, as here,the governing legal standard does not itself establish aviolation, the practical inquiry would be whether theviolation was established by case law is notdistinguishable in a fair way.QUESTION: What, in your view, is the governinglegal standard that you just referred to?MR. SCHLICK: The overarching standard would bethe Harlow v. Fitzgerald, where the law was clearlyestablished. The --QUESTION: Well, I thought -- you're nottalking, then, about a substantive standard?MR. SCHLICK: In that, in the particular context th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC where one looks to case law, this Court's decision inSaucier v. Katz uses the formulation whether the factswere distinguishable in a fair way, and that would be anappropriate gloss as well. Now --QUESTION: I mean, we start with a prohibitionfor substantive law, the prohibition against cruel andunusual punishment. Then how do we work ourselves downfrom there, or up from there, whatever you want to callit?MR. SCHLICK: Yes, Your Honor. We would urgethe Court in this case to take the case on the terms onwhich it was briefed and decided in the Eleventh Circuit,that is whether the law they applied in the EleventhCircuit in clearly established the violation. Inthat context --QUESTION: Then we don't get into the questionof our own view whether -- what the law might, or theresult might be in this case?MR. SCHLICK: Even under that approach, thefirst step would be to ask whether this Court's decisionsthemselves gave clear notice, and the answer to that inour view would be no. It's only because of the Gates v.Collier decision that these officers had fair warning, hadclear notice.QUESTION: So then the result could be one thing th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC in the Eleventh Circuit and another thing in the FourthCircuit?MR. SCHLICK: Yes, the -- it could be. ThisCourt hasn't definitively decided whether, when it takes aqualified immunity case, it should analyze the case inlight of its own law solely, or whether it should givegreater weight to the relevant circuits. In this case, wethink it would give most guidance to the lower courts toanalyze the case as the Eleventh Circuit did.QUESTION: But what is the standard that theofficers should have been aware of, first in the EleventhCircuit, and then, assuming that we think we -- that thiscase presents either the necessity or the properopportunity for us to say what the national standard oughtto be, what is the standard at a more specific level ofabstraction than Cruel and Unusual Punishment Clause thatwe should be dealing with?MR. SCHLICK: Justice Kennedy, let me addressthe Eleventh Circuit first. In the Eleventh Circuit, thereasonable officer would have looked to the Gates v.Collier decision, noted that it held that it violates theEighth Amendment to punish an inmate by handcuffing theinmate to a fence for a prolonged period of time, or cellbars for a prolonged period of time, or forcing him tomaintain an awkward position for a prolonged period of th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC time. The reasonable officer --QUESTION: Even if -- do you maintain that theissue of whether it was done only to get him to return tothe work crew is not in the case?MR. SCHLICK: Yes.QUESTION: We have to assume that he was justput on there to punish him, and he couldn't have beenreleased if he had said I'm ready to go back to the workcrew?MR. SCHLICK: Yes, Justice Scalia. The EleventhCircuit we think correctly explained that's not a fairinference from the record as we must take it.In the Eleventh Circuit, the reasonable officerwould -- could not have concluded that there is aconstitutional difference between handcuffing an inmate toa fence or a cell bar and handcuffing an inmate to a metalpole. Accordingly --QUESTION: For purposes of punishment?MR. SCHLICK: For purposes of punishment.QUESTION: You have to add that.MR. SCHLICK: Yes, Your Honor.QUESTION: And you're content to have us holdthese officers liable when a few years down the line wemay find that the Eleventh Circuit's opinion was wrong?MR. SCHLICK: Your Honor, we don't suggest a th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC view one way or the other on liability. We're simplysuggesting that to grant qualified immunity at this stageof the case was improper. That brings me, though, to thesecond question --QUESTION: Well, I understand, but I mean, theywould be stripped of their qualified immunity even thoughthe Eleventh Circuit's opinion was wrong, and we find itto have been wrong when we finally confront that issue.MR. SCHLICK: I think that suggests JusticeKennedy's second question, which was, absent Gates, howwould the case be viewed, and in that situation --QUESTION: And don't you think we have to reachthat?MR. SCHLICK: No. No, we don't think so, YourHonor, because it wasn't included in the petition or inthe questions on which this Court granted certiorari, andreally it hasn't been squarely faced by the parties,because the State is defending the Regulation ratherthan the facts that must be taken as true in this case.QUESTION: Well, it's not defending Regulation, according to you. Regulation as it reads says,he is released as soon as he agrees to go back to the workcrew without disruption.MR. SCHLICK: That's right. My point, JusticeScalia -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: So regulation is not in the case,according to you.MR. SCHLICK: -- is that the respondents havebriefed the case as if they were acting in compliance withRegulation , which is not in our view how the case mustbe taken. Now --QUESTION: At least the case in the EleventhCircuit, because it wasn't in the case. It wasn't in thecase before the district court. It was -- in the districtcourt it was just restraint as punishment. The idea ofthis being a temporal measure to get him to go back towork doesn't show up till the Eleventh Circuit, and theEleventh Circuit rejects it because it wasn't raised inthe district court.MR. SCHLICK: That's correct, Justice Ginsburg.QUESTION: So the regulation is not before us,you're saying.MR. SCHLICK: That's correct.QUESTION: Okay.MR. SCHLICK: To answer Justice Kennedy's secondquestion, how would this Court address the issue if Gatesv. Collier did not exist, in that case, a reasonableofficer -- the question would be, what would a reasonableofficer -- what would have been clear to a reasonableofficer. The reasonable officer could have made a th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC colorable argument that the appropriate analysis is thedeliberate indifference standard established by thisCourt's decision in Farmer v. Brennan, that standard beingwhether the officer was deliberately indifferent to asubstantial risk of serious harm.The reasonable officer could further haveconcluded that neither the May incident in this case northe June incident in this case presented a substantialrisk of serious harm.QUESTION: So you think deliberately indifferentis a sufficient standard for the imposition of liabilitywithout more specificity. All officers must be aware thattheir specific acts can be challenged under the generalstandard of deliberately indifferent.MR. SCHLICK: Yes, we think it would besufficient to establish a substantive violation of theEighth Amendment, although as the facts must be takenhere, qualified immunity would attach, because there's acolorable argument that the threshold was not crossed, butI'd want to say that this Court has not resolved whetherit's this deliberate indifference standard or rather theHudson v. McMillian test, the excessive force test ofwhether force was used maliciously and sadistically toinflict harm, and that is an unresolved question, is,it's -- that is that very absence of certainty that would th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC be most relevant absent the Gates v. Collier decision. Inthis --QUESTION: Suppose I think that I have to reachthe question of whether it would violate the Constitution,not just whether the Eleventh Circuit said it would. Doyou think it would violate the Constitution to make theinmate stand in a corner, to immobilize him to thatextent?not --Honor.MR. SCHLICK: You would need to know more,QUESTION: To go stand in the corner.MR. SCHLICK: Not in all instances, no, YourQUESTION: So what makes the difference is, yousay stand in the corner, and I'm going to handcuff you,and that's the difference between cruel and unusual, andnot cruel and unusual?MR. SCHLICK: The relevant considerations,Justice Scalia, would be the degree of pain and the threatto the safety of the inmates.QUESTION: It's not necessarily the degree ofpain. Being handcuffed to some immobile object, any --not much more than standing in a corner.MR. SCHLICK: The overarching question ofwhether the pain was wanton and unnecessary would focus on th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC the degree of pain, the penalogical justification, and thethreat to the inmate's safety, so you would need to knowthe facts that bear on those inquiries.In this case, as I've said, the Eleventh Circuitdecision of Gates v. Collier was directly on point. Itprovided sufficient certainty for the officers here, andit was correct in that as applied to these facts, underthis Court's decisions, there was an Eighth Amendmentviolation.QUESTION: I didn't understand your laststatement. You say, it would depend on the facts, thedegree of pain, the circumstances. I thought your argumentfor the proposition that any physical restraint as a formof punishment is bad.MR. SCHLICK: No, Your Honor. That --QUESTION: You're not.MR. SCHLICK: It's the petitioner's position,but not a position of the United States.QUESTION: Ah. All right. All right. Allright.MR. SCHLICK: If the Court has no furtherquestions --QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. Schlick.Mr. Forrester, we'll hear from you. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ORAL ARGUMENT OF NATHAN A. FORRESTERON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTSMR. FORRESTER: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court:In the last years, at least eight Federalmaster judges and eight Federal district judges in Alabamahave read the law to hold that handcuffing a prisoner to arestraining bar or to a similar stationary object does notviolate the Eighth Amendment.QUESTION: Have they discussed Gates? I didn'tgo to look at the district court opinions, though youcited them, but did those opinions discuss Gates?MR. FORRESTER: No, Justice Souter, they didn'tpointedly cite Gates.QUESTION: Did they just ignore the pre-EleventhCircuit precedent? I mean, how did they get by without --MR. FORRESTER: Primarily they refer to thesubsequent authority in Williams v. Burton and Ort v.White, and I don't think that we can presume that theystargazed and ignored it, or that they just thought thatcase really had been largely superseded by this subsequentclarifying authority.QUESTION: What was the subsequent clarifyingauthority? Gates was a specific injunction. It said, wewon't use physical restraints or punishments. What came th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC after from the Eleventh Circuit that modified thatinjunction?MR. FORRESTER: Well, the proposition for whichpetitioner's amici wish this Court to read Gates and saythat our respondents should have read Gates is this verybroad proposition that any form of restraint as a form ofpunishment is unconstitutional, although that propositionhas clearly been narrowed not just by the EleventhCircuit's rulings and rulings in Williams v. Burton andOrt, which indicated that certainly in an excessive forcecontext you could restrain a prisoner for a period oftime, but also by this Court's rulings in Wilson v. Seiterand Whitley v. Albers, and the clarifying ruling in Farmerv. Brennan, where this Court indicated that the fact thata restraint was possibly objectively problematic is notenough to create an Eighth Amendment right. There had tobe --QUESTION: If we are assuming the fact asalleged, as it was used here, not to quell a riot, not tokeep things calm in an interim, but as a means ofpunishment -- because that's what I understood theinjunction in Gates was, not, you couldn't use restraintsin a temporary situation, but that you could not use itstrictly for punishment purposes --MR. FORRESTER: Well -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: And that, as far as I know, hasn'tbeen modified.MR. FORRESTER: A couple of responses to that. The first is that the restraint was not used in this caseas a form of punishment. Petitioner never alleged orpresented evidence that it was used as a form ofpunishment. That phrase does not appear anywhere in hisfirst affidavit or his second affidavit. He simply saysthat he was put on the bar, and our respondents put him onthe bar not to punish him, per se, but because he wasrefusing to work under the regulation.QUESTION: But you didn't bring up theregulations in the district court. At least the EleventhCircuit said it was nowhere in the record.MR. FORRESTER: Well, first of all we think thatthe Court's entitled to take judicial notice of it,because it is the law, that you don't have to actuallyintroduce the law into the record, but on top of that, itwas always in the mix. The district court -- the activitylog for the petitioner's first day on the bar is a copy ofthe log that comes from the appendix to the regulations.QUESTION: What has that got to do with it, thatreg? I mean, so what? That is, his allegation is that hewas left for hours on a very hot day with his arms aboutover his head, standing up, and given no water, except th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC once, so there are hours at least without any water. All right, that's his allegation.Now, introduce any regulation you want, whydoesn't that create an issue for trial?MR. FORRESTER: Well, because, the Your Honor,the most important fact there is that he could have gottenoff the bar --QUESTION: I don't see anything, all right, thathe said that was so, and I don't see anything whereanybody in the record said that was so.MR. FORRESTER: The regulation --QUESTION: So what is the regulation? Did youmove, did you say -- did you say -- I don't see in thesepapers in front of me, say that the reason we're entitledto summary judgment is, it was ordinary practice to letthe person go off, and then you'd cite that, and herethey're following ordinary practice.Now, maybe then they'd have to have replied, butI couldn't find anything like that. Where does it saythat in the trial court?MR. FORRESTER: No, Your Honor, we didn't saythat, but it was petitioner's --QUESTION: Then why isn't it --MR. FORRESTER: Because it was petitioner'sburden, as the plaintiff, to set forth the facts that made th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC that his claim.QUESTION: They set forth facts.MR. FORRESTER: And once we --QUESTION: They set forth facts, and thequestion is, why doesn't that -- I gave you the facts, andwhy doesn't that present -- I would have thought as atrial judge you'd say, of course that's an issue fortrial, unless, of course, there's something unusual here,something unusual that may be -- and you're saying --where is this counter thing in the trial court? I don'tsee it. I have nothing -- I take it I should take thiscase as there having been nothing along the lines you'retalking about in the trial court.MR. FORRESTER: The activity log that is in therecord is --QUESTION: What page should I look at? I'lllook at whatever you tell me to look at in the trialcourt.nothing --MR. FORRESTER: It's pages in --QUESTION: I read through once, and I could findMR. FORRESTER: I'm sorry, Your Honor. Pages and , the activity log.QUESTION: Where do you find that, the jointappendix? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. FORRESTER: Of the joint appendix.QUESTION: and ?MR. FORRESTER: Yes, Your Honor.QUESTION: Is that of the second incident? Ithought there was no activity log of the --MR. FORRESTER: Yes, that's the first incident.QUESTION: All right. The activity log, as faras I see it, says nothing about what you're saying. Itjust says he was placed on a restraining bar for a fight.MR. FORRESTER: Yes, Your Honor. It refers tothe two --say?QUESTION: I've looked at it now. What does itMR. FORRESTER: It refers to the two conditionsthat are the conditions for using the restraining barunder reg .QUESTION: Why don't you read that?MR. FORRESTER: Refusing to work and beingdisruptive to the work squad.QUESTION: And what it says is, refusing towork, fight.MR. FORRESTER: Yes, Your Honor.QUESTION: That's the reason that they put himon the bar. Okay. Now what?MR. FORRESTER: Yes, Your Honor. Now, the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC bottom of the next page -- unfortunately there's atypographical error in this appendix, but it says, Annex Ato AR . That should be , and we have gone back andchecked. The actual copy of this log in the record says,AR .QUESTION: Yes, and it says that right after itsays, restraining bar to be used only during daylighthours, Annex A to AR-, so -- now, what has that to dowith it?MR. FORRESTER: That refers -- that's actually, and that is the regulation.QUESTION: Okay. Let's suppose that you're agenius as a trial judge, and you happen to know that whenit says here AR- it means AR-, okay. Now, what itsaid is, restraining bar to be used only during daylighthours, cite, . Now, how does that help?MR. FORRESTER: Well, reg is what theserespondents were following when they put him on the bar,and this petitioner has not alleged that when he was puton the bar he could not have gotten off.QUESTION: Okay. I'll take that into account.My other question is whether or not it is thecase that any human being would know that it is cruel andunusual to keep a person, if that's what happened -- it'swhat he's alleged -- keep a person chained with his arms th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC over his head, handcuffed to a bar, for hours, in thehot sun, not giving him water but for once, so he goes atleast hours without water.Now, is there a case that would confuse what Ithink would be ordinary common sense on that -- at least,or tell me why that isn't ordinary common sense to thinkthat that is very cruel, and certainly an unusual thing todo.MR. FORRESTER: Yes, Your Honor. Let me prefacemy response with one quick -- he wasn't cuffed with hishands over his head. They were chest high. His ownpictures show that in the joint appendix, but I would drawYour Honor's attention to a district court opinion whichis transcribed in the joint appendix. It starts at --QUESTION: One of my pictures happens to showit's slightly up here, his hands, and the others show it'sabout eye level.MR. FORRESTER: And he's slumping.The -- I would like to draw Your Honor'sattention to this district court opinion that istranscribed in the joint appendix at page . It'sentitled, Whitson v. Gillikin, and this was a case. This was year before the events in this case. JimGates, who is one of the respondents here, was a defendantin this case, and in this case the prisoner alleged that th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC he was put on the bar for hours in -degree heat, whichis hotter than this case, was not given any water, was notgiven any bathroom breaks, which has not been alleged inthis case.The district court, or rather the magistratejudge appointed counsel for this pro se litigant,instructed counsel to go out and provide supplementalbriefing on the question of whether that circumstanceviolated a clearly established right, and the court said,I have done my own diligent search -- this is on page -- the court has made a diligent search of the caselaw, I requested additional brief from the parties, andneither the court nor the parties have identified anycases binding or otherwise in this circuit in which it wasfound that the Eighth Amendment as violated in thesecircumstances.Now, we submit that if you have a learnedauthority such as this reading the law that carefully andnot finding it in this manner, it would be exceedinglyunfair to hold our respondents --QUESTION: This is --MR. FORRESTER: -- responsible for doing thesame.QUESTION: -- a post -- post Gates?MR. FORRESTER: Yes. This is a case. This th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC is years after Gates.QUESTION: And it seems to me exceedinglycareless for the counsel who was appointed not to bringthat to the magistrate judge's attention.MR. FORRESTER: Your Honor, in years sinceGates v. Collier, no Federal court of which we are awarehas ever read it for the broad principle that petitionernow seeks to read it in this case. It's clear in thecontext of Gates v. Collier that the officers there wereemploying -- were handcuffing prisoners to cells and tofences for malicious and entirely arbitrary reasons. Theyhad no valid penalogical purpose whatsoever.QUESTION: The more drastic episode in this casewas the second episode, and there you can't even point toan activity log, didn't even write it up. The Statetreated it as though it didn't happen.MR. FORRESTER: Well, Your Honor, it's not clearthat they didn't write it up, and furthermore it wasn'trespondent's responsibility.QUESTION: Whose burden was it -- whose burdenwould it be to show an entry in the activity log? Afterall, the prisoner doesn't -- is not the custodian of thatlog. Isn't it the State's obligation to bring it forward,just as it was brought forward with respect to the firstinstance? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. FORRESTER: Yes. We attempted to find it,and just couldn't find it, and these three respondents,moreover, were not personally responsible for the activitylog. They weren't responsible for keeping it because theyweren't the one supervising him, and they weren'tresponsible for his custody after it was kept.QUESTION: They weren't responsible for how longhe was left on the bar, either.MR. FORRESTER: Correct, Your Honor.QUESTION: Which makes me wonder whether it wasyour burden to bring in the regulation or, rather, whetherit was the burden of the plaintiff to show that thesedefendants, when they put him on the bar, knew that hewould be left on the bar for hours, and if that wastheir burden, it seems to me it's not up to you tovolunteer the defense which is in the public record, thatin fact, if the prison policy was followed, he wouldn'thave been left there for hours as soon as he agreed togo back to the work crew.QUESTION: But it's your position, I take it,that so long as the regulation was in place so that hecould go back to work, that the State could legitimatelykeep him --MR. FORRESTER: Yes.QUESTION: -- hanging to this rail for as long th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC as it takes, no matter how hot it is, and without water,for as long as the State chooses to use it, just so longas the regulation is there that says, you can go back towork?the rail.this --erect --rail --MR. FORRESTER: No, Your Honor. QUESTION: Is that your position?MR. FORRESTER: No, Your Honor, not hanging fromQUESTION: Well, like this.MR. FORRESTER: Chest high -- chest high, likeQUESTION: All right.MR. FORRESTER: -- where he can stand fullyQUESTION: In this case, handcuffed to theMR. FORRESTER: Yes, Your Honor.QUESTION: -- for as long as the State wisheswithout administration of water or bathroom breaks, justbecause there's a regulation that says he can go back towork. That's your position?MR. FORRESTER: No, Your Honor. The regulationclearly entitles him to regular water and bathroom breaks.QUESTION: But the allegations are that he wasnot given water and not given bathroom breaks. We take th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC those allegations as true for purposes of a summaryjudgment motion.MR. FORRESTER: No, Your Honor, he did notallege, ever, nor present evidence that he was denied abathroom break, and he did not allege that he was deniedwater. He simply said that during one -hour stretchthese two other defendant, nondefendant officers, who areclearly not these three respondents, deprived him of waterand -- you know, in acts --QUESTION: -- certainly in the hot sun for hours without water is fine. That's fine?MR. FORRESTER: If it is being done because hehas refused to work -- and I would hasten to add, YourHonor, this is --QUESTION: But we have nothing in the record, asI understand it, to indicate that. Your position on that,as I understand it, is that's what the regulation makesclear, that that's why they were doing it, but theregulation is not on the record, and I don't see any basisupon which a United States district court is required totake judicial notice of every State's prison regulationsif the State doesn't want to put it into the record.MR. FORRESTER: Yes, Your Honor. I mean, Iwould note that even in the absence of the regulation thedistrict court didn't find his allegations in evidence th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC sufficient to make out a claim that would withstandqualified immunity, so introducing that only makes thecase all that stronger, but I would hasten to add that theCourt did make a finding that he was put on the barbecause he was disruptive to the work crew -- work squad. That is the condition in the regulations. He was not puton the bar for a strictly punitive purpose in the sensethat petitioners are arguing --QUESTION: Can you help me with this, Mr.Forrester? The assumption seems to be in the State'sargument that if you restrain a person in order to -- thenchoose the word, convince, coerce him to do something,that is not punishment. I thought one of the purposes ofpunishment was rehabilitation, or corrections, as well asdeterrence and prevention.MR. FORRESTER: Yes, Your Honor.QUESTION: Why isn't this punishment if you'redoing this in order to have him comply with your command?MR. FORRESTER: Yes, Your Honor, it is certainlypunishment in the broad sense. For instance, it is a partof prison life. We're not saying that it shouldn't beanalyzed as to whether it's cruel and unusual, but in thenarrow sense in which they are using it, and in the narrowsense in which Ort v. White sought to distinguishpunishment from what it termed an immediately necessary th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC coercive measure, this requires --QUESTION: Yes, but Mr. Schlick, can I just askyou about the case you called our attention to on page - of the -- and there, according to the magistratejudge's opinion, Judge Putman, in that case the plaintiffwas refusing to check out in his work detail, but then hegave him the choice of either working or being handcuffedto the security bar. There's no such allegation in thiscase, is there?MR. FORRESTER: Petitioner never alleged that hecouldn't have gotten off the bar --QUESTION: But you didn't allege that you gavehim the choice, did you?MR. FORRESTER: The petitioner bears the burden,as the plaintiff, to say I could not have gotten off thebar if I had asked for it.QUESTION: I must say, I can't understand whythat wasn't put in by the State. I can't -- I cannotimagine why the State did not raise that point, that hecould have gotten off the bar at any time by just saying,I'll go back to work. Why -- what's your explanation forthat?MR. FORRESTER: Well, it is a regrettable --QUESTION: Regrettable, it's incomprehensible.MR. FORRESTER: -- litigation error. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: Why doesn't the -- Ort, which you sayhe's the magistrate on page and , supports yourposition. Interestingly enough, that case is cited by theGovernment in support of its position, and I suppose thereason is because they make very clear in that case thatit was unusual to deprive a person of water, and in thatcircumstance, absolutely necessary, and so how, in thiscircumstance, was it necessary to do what he says theydid?I was deprived of water, was teased by twoofficers when I asked for water, on one occasion theystarted to bring me water but ended up giving it to somedogs, I was given some once or twice during hours, butthat was not enough, and at one point during the hottestpart of the day I was left without water for at least hours.All right, so for a person reading the case ofOrt, and then reading that, you would think that Ortactually supports the Government, not you, because --unless, of course, there's some reason that behavior likethat, if it occurred, would have been necessary, so whatis the necessity, or what can you say about it?MR. FORRESTER: Well, I would hasten to add,Your Honor, those allegations that you keep reading againare not alleged against our three respondents. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: That's, of course, what you say, butwhat the allegation says is that it was your threerespondents. In -- on -- in the affidavit what he saysspecifically on that is, he says, I believe that theofficer who actually put me on the hitching post wasdefendant Sergeant Mark Pelzer. However, a report says Iwas put there by defendant Gates, and an officer namedMark Dempsey, and then McClaran wrote the report, and inMcClaran's reply he suggests he was there, and so I don'tsee any denial here by your particular clients that theywere not responsible for this, and he alleges they were.QUESTION: Would that be your burden? Is thattheir burden to say, I was not responsible, or is it theplaintiff's burden to say, you were responsible for notgiving me water?QUESTION: That's not there. The language Iread was the plaintiff's affidavit saying they wereresponsible in his opinion.QUESTION: Responsible for putting him onto thepost.MR. FORRESTER: We do believe it was theplaintiff's burden, Justice Breyer. The excerpt you justread actually refers to the first day he was on the bar,May . The second day was not when Pelzer put him on thebar, but it is no way clear from that that either Pelzer th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC or Gates, who it would appear put him on the bar, stuckaround after that.QUESTION: It's an important point for me. Istill don't understand why coercion to comply with anorder by a restraint is not a punishment.MR. FORRESTER: We do think it's punishment in abroad sense. That's trying to make too fine a point. Thepoint I'm trying to respond to is their contentionbasically that there was no valid penalogical purpose forputting him on the restraining bar, that this was somehowarbitrary or retaliative, or retributive and not remedial,which was the purpose. The purpose here was to get him togo back to work. It wasn't --QUESTION: But he says, and we must take this astrue I think at this stage, I have no reason to say I'mwilling to go back to work because I never for a momentsaid I wouldn't work. They took me away from the worksite. In one case I was having a fight with somebody, butin neither case did I say, I won't work. This was not aman who said, I want to be back in my cell watching thetelevision and not working.MR. FORRESTER: Yes, Your Honor, but gettinginto the altercation, actually getting to the point wherehe had his blade raised and was ready to strike anotherinmate, is certainly disruptive to the work squad, and th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC that's a serious security issue for these --QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. Forrester.Mr. Schaerr, We'll hear from you.ORAL ARGUMENT OF GENE C. SCHAERRON BEHALF OF MISSOURI, ET AL., AS AMICI CURIAE,SUPPORTING THE RESPONDENTSMR. SCHAERR: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court:We believe this case is controlled by any ofthree common sense principles of law, each of which isessential if this Court's qualified immunity doctrine isto prevent the problems that it was designed to prevent.The first is that where personal liability is atstake, public officials shouldn't be expected to be moreadept at construing case law than the State court judgeswhose decisions are reviewed in Federal habeasproceedings.Now, the United States appears to adopt astandard that would be equivalent functionally to thestandard that this Court has already adopted in the habeascontext, and we think the United States' argument in thispoint is correct, and in fact we believe the Court hasalready come close to adopting that standard in theSaucier decision, which said the proper inquiry is whetherthe case on which a plaintiff relies occurred, and I th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC quote, under facts not distinguishable in a fair way fromthe facts presented in the case at hand. It seems to methat is just another way of saying that the facts of thetwo cases can't be materially indistinguishable.QUESTION: Well, let me ask you a differentquestion, though. What's the conceptual differencebetween materially similar, which was used here, andfundamentally similar, which was disapproved in Lanier?MR. SCHAERR: Well, as I understand, thefundamentally similar requirement required a much tighterfit between the facts of the two cases than the materiallysimilar standard does, and I think --QUESTION: I mean, maybe you're right, but Idon't know that from looking at the two words. I mean, itsounds to me as though materially and fundamentally aresubstantially similar.(Laughter.)QUESTION: I mean, I --MR. SCHAERR: And not materially -- you got it.QUESTION: But it's splitting it pretty fine, itseems to me, and wouldn't it be better, wouldn't it serveclarity better if we in effect said in this case, look,stop paraphrasing the standard, and just stick to thebasic standard, and that is, would it be clear to areasonable officer? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. SCHAERR: Well, it seems to me, JusticeSouter, the way you answer that question is, you look atthe case law, and that's what at issue here. There's noallegation that the text of the Eighth Amendment or thatany statute bars the conduct at issue here.QUESTION: So you're saying regardless of howthey paraphrased it, when you get down to the districtcourt cases, on any standard, they ought to win. That'sit. You're not resting anything on materially similar asthe right way to describe it.MR. SCHAERR: Well, I think it is important anduseful for this Court to make the link to the habeascontext, because I think that would provide greaterclarity in the law, and the ultimate standard under thisCourt's decisions is whether official action violatedclearly established law.Well, that's the exact -- that's exactly thesame phrase that's used in the habeas statute, and thatthis Court has interpreted in Williams and Penry II asmeaning materially indistinguishable, and it would beuseful, and I think quite productive to apply that in thiscontext as well, and would bring greater clarity to thelaw.QUESTION: But isn't that -- isn't it a concernfor the State court, because here we're talking about an th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC officer, and did he follow what was an Eleventh Circuitdecision.MR. SCHAERR: Right.QUESTION: There, we're talking about a Federalcourt overriding a determination by a State court, so Idon't think the settings are similar. There's aparticular concern that the habeas statute reflects, andthat is not overriding a State court's determination.MR. SCHAERR: Sure, but -- and I agree the twosituations are not entirely identical, but if anything itseems to me the section context raises even greaterfederalism concerns, because as this Court recognized acouple of terms ago in Geyer v. Honda, litigation canoften be the functional equivalent of a statutory -- of astatute or a regulation, and so what happens in the context, as illustrated in this case, is that courtsarticulate broad rules that purport to govern the conduct,the day-to-day conduct of elected and nonelected Stateofficials, and so it seems to me if anything thefederalism concerns are greater.In another important way, public officials,nonlawyer, nonjudge public officials are at a disadvantageand that, as this Court noted in Saucier, and I quote,public officials are often forced to make split-secondjudgments in circumstances that are tense, uncertain, and th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC rapidly evolving, unlike judges, who can take all the timethey want sometimes to --QUESTION: Yes, but wait a minute, this is notsplit-second. We're talking hours here.MR. SCHAERR: I agree with that, JusticeO'Connor, but the standard, it seems to me, needs to applyto the full range of official action that would be coveredby .QUESTION: Yes, but you have to ask whether areasonable officer in these circumstances would have knownthat what was done was unconstitutional.MR. SCHAERR: I think that ultimately is theanswer, and it seems to me the way you answer that isasking the question posed in Saucier, of whether the twocases are materially -- well, are -- whether there's afair distinction between the two cases, which seems to meamounts to material distinction.QUESTION: If you're requested to advise thecorrectional officers in your State as to the standard,the constitutional standard they must observe withreference to restraining inmates, and circumstances likethese, what is the standard that you tell them they mustfollow?MR. SCHAERR: Well, I don't think that's clearfrom this Court's decisions at this point, as the United th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC States --QUESTION: Well, they come to you, and you'retheir attorney, and you have to figure out what we mean uphere.MR. SCHAERR: Well, at --(Laughter.)MR. SCHAERR: At worst -- at worst I would tellthem they have to follow the standard in Farmer. That is,their actions can't be objectively cruel, but they also --they also cannot act with a subjective awareness of aserious harm to the inmates, and it seems to me that's thekey distinction in this case between Gates, or the keyreason why Gates is not controlling here.Gates was decided long before Whitley and Farmer andall of those decisions that made clear the subjectiverequirement in the Eighth Amendment, and indeed if youlook at the Eleventh Circuit's opinion, there's not even afinding of any awareness of serious harm that would cometo these inmates. They just completely overlooked theserious harm requirement, and so it seems to me Gates,based on this court's current cases, Gates is easilydistinguishable, and can't be taken as controlling here.Now, the second principle that I'd like toaddress is the principle --QUESTION: Well, I don't see in Gates -- and I'm th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC reading from page , where they talk about being put inawkward positions, though.MR. SCHAERR: Right.QUESTION: I don't see any requirement ofserious harm to the inmates.MR. SCHAERR: Well, that's right, and that's whyit seems to me Gates had been overtaken by this Court'ssubsequent decisions and therefore was not -- was nolonger binding, even if you take it on the terms that thepetitioner was --QUESTION: What decision --QUESTION: Yes, what --QUESTION: -- of this Court do you rely on aschanging what Gates said?MR. SCHAERR: Well, Farmer added a newrequirement. Well, not just Farmer, but Farmer and theother decisions that preceded it added a requirement ofsubjective awareness of a risk of serious harm. Gatesdidn't impose that kind of requirement at all, andtherefore once this Court's decisions made clear that thatsubjective requirement was present, Gates, it seems to me,could no longer be regarded as controlling in thissituation, even if you interpret Gates on its own terms.as the petitioner would have you.QUESTION: Well, even if that were a th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC requirement, you think the allegations here don't suffice?MR. SCHAERR: No, I don't. At worst, the --QUESTION: That one would not -- a reasonableperson would not be aware that you couldn't restrainsomeone on a post or rail for hours in the heat, withoutwater more than every hours?MR. SCHAERR: Well, I think the question iswhether the harm that you could foresee from that -- andthe record does not suggest that he was without water. Hesays that he received water only once or twice during that-hour period. Lots of people go without water and foodfor hours.QUESTION: Yes, but also no bathroom breaks.MR. SCHAERR: I'm sorry.QUESTION: Also no bathroom breaks for hours.MR. SCHAERR: There's no allegation of that inhis affidavit.QUESTION: Well, the court of appeals said therewas.MR. SCHAERR: The court of appeals made amistake, and this Court has the ability to review thesummary judgment record de novo, and it's not a longrecord.But that leads me to the -- to my secondprinciple, and that is that a public official shouldn't be th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC held liable under section , or shouldn't be strippedof his or her qualified immunity except on the basis ofhis or her own actions based on reasonable inferences fromthe summary judgment record, and it seems to me thatprinciple is well-illustrated in the Saucier decision thatthis Court decided last term.Indeed, as Justice Ginsburg recognized in herconcurrence in that case, the evidentiary predicate fordenying qualified immunity must consist of what Rule (e)calls specific facts set forth in affidavits or othersimilar evidence. General allegations are not enough, inthe summary judgment context, even though they might be ona motion to dismiss.QUESTION: Can I just ask you a specificpoint --MR. SCHAERR: Yes.QUESTION: -- because he's right about -- mything about the defendants was not June , it was, healleges it. Is there any place in the record where it'sdenied that these are the right defendants?MR. SCHAERR: With respect to some of theactivity, yes. I couldn't give you the pages as I sithere, but the burden is on the plaintiff to make thatrecord.QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. Schaerr. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Mr. Jones, you have minutes left.MR. JONES: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice, andmay it please the Court:If the Court has no questions, we submit thatthe judgment of the court of appeals should be reversed.CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: Very well. Thank you,Mr. Jones. The case is submitted.(Whereupon, at : a.m., the case in theabove-entitled matter was submitted.) th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC A abated : : ability : able : about : : : : : : : : : : : : : :, above-entitled : : absence : : absent : : absolutely : abstraction : according : : : : : Accordingly : account : acknowledged : : act : acting : action : : actions : : activity : :, :, : : : : acts : : actual : actually : : : :, : add : : : : added :, additional : address : : : addressed : adept : administration : adopt : adopted : adopting : advise : affidavit :, : : :, :, : affidavits : affirmed : after : :, : : :, : : again : : against : : : ago : agree : : : agreed : : agrees : Ah : al :, : : Alabama :, : : Albers : allegation : : : : : : : allegations : : :, : : : allege : :, : alleged : : : :, : : : : alleges : : allowed : along : already :, altercation :, : although : : : always : Amendment : : : : : : : : : amici : : : : amicus : : : amount : : amounts : : analysis : : analyze :, analyzed : Annex :, another : :, : : : : asking : aspects : asserted : Assistant : assume : :, : assuming : : assumption : Atlanta : attach : attacking :, attempted : attendant : attention :, : : attorney : Austin : : : : : authority :,, : aware : : : : awareness :, : away : :, : awkward : : a.m : : : B answer : : : :, answered : anybody : anything : : :,, : b : back : :, :, :, :,,, : : : : :, :, : :,, :, anyway : anywhere : appeals :, : appear : : APPEARANCES : appears : appendix : : : : : :, applied : : : applies : apply : : appointed : : approach : appropriate : : : April : AR :, arbitrary : : argue : arguing : : argument : :,,, :, : : :, : : : : : arises : arms : : around : articulate : AR- :, AR- : asked : : background : bad : bar : : :,, : : :, :,,, : : :,, :, :,,, :, :, bars : : based :, : : basic : basically : basis : : bathroom : :,,, : : : :,, : : : bear : bears : before : :, : : behalf :,,, :,,, : : : : behavior : : being :, : : : : : : : : believe : :, :, below : better :, between : : : :, : : beyond : : : binding : : : blade : th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC blank : body : both : bottom : break : : breaks : :,,, :, : : :,, :, Brennan : : Breyer : brief : briefed : : briefing : bright :, bring : :, : : : brings : broad : : : : : brought : : brutality : build : burden : :, :,, : :,,, : Burton : : C C :, :,, : : : call : called : : calls : calm : came : : carefully : careless : case : :,, :,,,, : :, : :, :, : : : :,, :, :, :, :,,,, : :, : :,,,,,, :, : : : : : :,, :, :,,, :, : : :,, :,, :, :,, :, : : : : :, cases : : : :, : :, : cell : : : cells : certainly : : : : : : : certainty : : certiorari : : : chained : challenged : changing : charge : check : checked : chest : :, Chief :, : : : : : : choice :, choose : chooses : circuit : :, :, :, :, :, : :, :,, :,, :, :,, : : : : : : : circuits : : Circuit's : : : : : circumstance : :, circumstances : : : : : : : :, cite : : : cited : : claim : : clarifying :, : clarity :, : :, Clause : : clear : :, : :, : : : : : : : clearly : :, : : :, :, :, : : : : : : clients : close : coerce : coercion : coercive : Collier :, : : : : : : :, colorable :, combination : come : :, comes : command : common :, : complaint : completely : compliance : comply : : conceptual : concern : : concerns :, concluded : : concurrence : condition : conditions : :, conduct :, : : : : :, confine : confinement : confront : confuse : consider : consideration : considerations : consist : consistent : constituted : Constitution :, constitutional : :, :, : : : : constitutionality : construing : contend : contended : content : contention : : contest :, context : : : : : :, :, : continued : controlled : controlling :, : convince : copy : : corner :,,, corporal : : : correct : : :,,,,, :,, : :, :, : : : correctional : corrections : correctly : counsel :, : counter : couple : : coupled : course :, : : court :, :, :,, :, :,, : : : : : : : :,,, : : :, :, : : : :,, :, :,,, : :, : :,,, :,,, :, :, : :,, : :,, courts : : court's : :, : : : : : : : : : :, covered : CRAIG : : : create : : crew :, :, :, : : : : : crews : critical :,,,, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC : deciding : decision : :, :, : : : : : : : : decisions : : : : : : : :,, declined : defendant : : :, defendants : :, : : crossed : cross-appeal : cruel : :, : : : : :, : : : : cuffed : curiae :, :, : : current : custodian : custody : D D : damages : day : : :, : :, daylight :, day-to-day : de : dealing : decide : : : decided : : : : : : defending :, defense : definitively : degree : :, :, deliberate :, deliberately :,, Dempsey : denial : denied :, : denying : Department : depend : deprive : deprived : : describe : designed : detail : determination :, determine : determined : determining : : deterrence : developed : difference : :, : different : : diligent :, directly : disadvantage : disapproved : discipline : discomfort : discuss : discussed : : dismiss : disputed : disrupt : disrupted : disrupting : : disruption : : : disruptive : : : distinction :, : distinguish : distinguishable : : : : district : : : :,, :, :, :, : :, : disturbance : doctrine : dogs : : doing : : : done : : : : : down : : : : drastic : draw :, drawn : drew : drink : during :, : :, : D.C :,, E E : :, each :,, :, : : : earlier : : easily : effect : : eight :, Eighth : : : : : : : : : either : : : : : elected : element :, Eleventh : :, : : :, : :, :,,,, :,, : :,, : : :, : : : emphasizes : employing : ended : enjoined : : enough : :, : entirely : : entitled : : : entitles : entry : episode :, equivalent : : erect : error : : escape : ESQ :,,, :,,, essential : establish : : : established : : : : :, :,, :,, : : : : establishes :, establishing : et :, : : evaluating : even : : : : : : : :, : : : :,, : events : ever : : every :, : : evidence :, : : :, : evidentiary : evolving : exact : exactly : : examine : examined : exceedingly : : except : : : excerpt : excessive : : exigent : exist : expectation : expected : explained : explanation : exposition : extent : : eye : F faced : facility : fact : : :, : :, : :, : : : facts :,, :,,,, : : : : : :, : : :,, :,,, : fair :,, : : :, : : : th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC fairly :, : far : : : Farmer : : :, :, : favor : features : Federal : :, : : : federalism :, fence : : fences : few : Fifth : : : fight : :, : fighting : figure : fill : finally : find : : : :, :, : finding : : : : Findings : fine :, : : first : : : :, : :, :,,, : : : : fit : Fitzgerald : five : fixed : focus : follow : : : : : followed : : following : : food : force : :, : forced : forcing : foresee : form : : : : : :, :, forms : formulation : Forrester : : : :,, : :, :, :,,, :,,, :,,,,,, : :, :, :, :, :,, :,,,, : :,, :,, : :,, : : :, : forth : :, : forward :, found : : Fourth : from : : : :, :, : : : : : : : : : : :, : : : : front : : : full : fully : functional : functionally : fundamentally : :, :, : further : : : furthermore : G G : Gates :, : :, : : : : : : : :,, :,, : : :,, : : :,,, :, :,,,, gather : gave : : :, GENE : : : general :, : : genius : Georgia : gets : getting :, Geyer : Gillikin : Ginsburg : : : : : give :, : given : : : :, :, : gives : giving : : : : : gloss :, :, : go :,, :, : :, :, : : : : : : : :, :, : :, : goes : : going : : : : : gone : gotten : : :,, govern : governing :, Government :, grant : : : granted :, : : greater : :, :, guards : guess : guidance : H habeas :, :, : hand : handcuff : handcuffed : : : : handcuffing : :, : : hands :, hanging : : happen : : happened : happens : : Harlow : harm :,, :,, :, : harmful : hasten : : : having : : : head : :, hear : : : : heat : : : held : : : help : : her :,, high : :, him :,, : : :, :, :,, : :, : : :, : : : :,, : : :, : : :, :,, hitching :,,, : : hold : : : holding :, : : holdings :, Honda : Honor : :, : :, : : : : : :, : :, : : : :, : :,,, : :, : :,,, :, : :, : : Honor's :, Hope : : : : Hopper : : hot : : : : hotter : hottest : hour : hours :,, : : : : : :, : :, : :, : :,,, Hudson : human : I idea : identical : : identified : ignore : ignored : II : th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC illustrated : imagine : immediate : immediately : immobile : immobility : immobilize : immune : immunity : : :, : :, : : : :, impermissible : important : : : : : impose : imposition : impossible : improper : incident :,, :,, :, :, include : : included :, : : including : incomprehensible : incorporated : indeed : : indefinitely :, indicate :, : indicated :, indifference :, indifferent :,, indistinguishable : : individual : individually :, inducing : inference : : inferences : inflict : injunction : :, injunctive : inmate : :, :, : inmates : : : :, : : inmate's : inquiries : inquiry : : : : instance : : : instances :, : : instant : instantaneously : instructed : Interestingly : interim : interpret : interpretation : interpreted : introduce : : introducing : involved : : involves : involving : issue : : : :, : : : : : : : : : issues : J Jim : joint : : :,, Jones : : :,, :,,, : :,, :,,,, : :,, :,,, :, :, : :,, :, :,, : :,, :,,, : :, : :,, judge : : : : : judges :, : : judge's : : judgment : :, : : : :, : judgments : judicial : : June : : just : : : : : : : : :, : : : : :, :, : :, : : : Justice : :, : : : : : : : : : : : : : :, :, : :, : : : : : :, Justice's : justification : K Katz : keep : : :, : : keeping : Kennedy :, : : Kennedy's : : kept : : key :, kind : : knew : know :,,, : : : : :, : : known : : L lack :, laid : language : Lanier :, : : : largely : Larry : : : last : : : Laughter : : law :, : :, : : : : :,, :,,, : : :, :, : : :,,, leads : learned : least : : : : :, : leave :, leaving : left : : : : :,, : : legal :, legitimately : less : let : : : : Let's : level : : liability : : : : liable : : life : light : like : : : : : : :, : : : limit : limiting : line :, : lines : : link : litigant : litigation : : log :, :, :, : :,, : long : :,, :,, : : longer :, look : : :,, : : : looked : : looking : looks : Lots : lower : M made : : : : : : : : magistrate : : : : maintain : : : make :, : : : :, : : : : : makes : : : : malicious : maliciously : th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC man : : manner : many : Mark : : :, master : material : materially : :,,,, : : : matter : : : may : : : : : : : : : maybe : : : McClaran : McClaran's : McMillian : mean : : : : : : : : : : :,, : meaning : means : : : measure : : measures : mention : met : metal : Middle : might :, : miles : : minute : minutes :, : Mississippi : Missouri : : : mistake : mix : modified : : moment : Montgomery : more : : : :, : : : moreover : most : : : motion : : move : much : : multiple :, must : : : : : : : : :, : N N :, : named :, : namely : names : narrow :, narrowed : NATHAN : : : national : nature : necessarily : necessary : : : :,, necessity : : : need :, : : : needs : neither : : : never : : : : : : new : : next : nondefendant : nonelected : nonjudge : nonlawyer : note : noted : : nothing : : :,, : : notice :, : : novo : nowhere : number : : O O : : object : : : objectively : : obligation : observe : obvious : occasion : occurred : : : odd : off : :, : :,, offered : officer : : : :, :,,, :, :, : : : officers :, : : : : : : : : : officer's : official : : : : officials : : :,,, often :, oh : okay : : : : : :,, old : once : :, : : : : one :,,,,,, :, : : : :, : :, : :,, : : : : : : : only : : : :, : : :, : : onto : open :,, opinion : : : : : :, : : : opinions :, opportunity : opposed : oral : :,,, : : : : order : :, : ordered : : ordinary :, :, Ort : : : :,, other : : :, : : : : : : others : otherwise : : : ought : : ourselves : : : out :, : : : : : : over : : :, overarching : : overlooked : overriding :, overtaken : own : : : : : : : O'Connor : : P P : page : : : : : : : : pages :, : pain : :,, :, papers : paraphrased : paraphrasing : part : : : : particular : : : : : : : parties : :, past : Pelzer : : :,, penalogical : : : Penry : people : : : per : perfectly : perhaps : period :,, : : permissible : person : :, : :, : personal : : personally : petition : : th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC petitioner :,, :, : : : : : :, :, petitioners : petitioner's : : : : phrase : : physical :,,, : : : : pictures :, place : : placed : plaintiff : : : :, : : plaintiffs : plaintiff's : :,, pleadings :,, please : : : : : point : : : : : : : : :,,, : : : pointedly : pole : policy :,, : :, : posed : position : : :, : :, : :, positions : possibly : post :,, : : :, :, : pour : pouring : practical : practice :, practices :, preceded : precedent :, : precedents : predicate : preface : prepared : present : : : : presented : : : presents : presume : pretty : prevent :, prevention : pre-Eleventh : Primarily : principle :, : :, : : principles : prior : prison : :,, :,,, :, : : : prisoner : : : : : prisoners : : privileges : pro : problem : problematic : problems : proceedings : productive : prohibition :, prolonged :,, proper :, : : : : property : proposition : : : :,, provide : : provided : public : : :,, : published : punish : :, : : : punished :, punishment :, :, : : : : : :, : : :, : : :,, :, :,,,, :, punishments : : punitive : : punitively : purport : purpose : : :,, purposes : : : : : : : : : put :, : :, : : : : : : :, : :,, : : Putman : putting : : Q qualified : : : : :, : : : :, qualify : quell : : question :, :,,, :, : :,,, :,,, :,, :,,, :,, :,, : :,, : :,, :, :,, :,,, :,,, :,, :,, : : :,,,, :, :,, :,,,,, :, :,,,,, : :,, :,, : : :, :,, :,,,, : :,,,,,, :, :, : :,, :, : :,,, :,,,, : :, :, :,, : : :,,, :, : :,,,, :,, : :,,, :, :,,, : :,,,, :,, questioned : questions : : : : quick : Quickly : quite : : quote : : R R : rail : :, : raise : raised : : : : raises : range : rapidly : rather : : : : : reach : : read : :, : : :, : :, reading : : :,, : reads : ready : : : really : : reason : : : : : : : : reasonable : : :, :,,, : : : : : reasoning :, reasons : rebutting : recall :, received : recited : : recognized : : record : : : : : : : : : : : :, :,, :,, refer : reference : : referenced : referred : refers :, : : reflects : refused : : refusing : :, : reg : : : regard : regarded : regardless : regrettable :, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC regular : regulation :,, :,, : :,, : :, :,, :,, : regulations :, : : rehabilitation : REHNQUIST : : rejected : rejects : released : : : : relevant : : :, relies : rely : relying :, remainder : remedial : replied : reply : report :, requested : : required : : requirement :, : :, :,,,, : requires : resolved : : respect :, : : : : : respond : respondents :, :, : : : : : : : : : : : : : respondent's : response : responses : responsibility : responsible : :,,, : :,,, resting : restrain : : : : : restrained : : : : restraining : : :, : : : : restraint :,,,,, : : : : : : : : :, : : restraints : : : result :, retaliative : retributive : return : reversed : review : reviewed : right : : :, : : :, : :, : : : : : : : : :, :, rights : riot : risk :, : routinely : rule :,,, :, : rules :, : ruling : : : rulings :,, S S : : sadistically : safety : : same : : Saucier : : : : : : : : : : : says : : : : :,, :,,,, :, : :,, : : : Scalia : : : : : scene : Schaerr : : :,, :, :, :, :,, :, :,, :,,,, :, : Schlick : : :,,,, : : :, :,,,, : :, :,,, : : :,, :,,, : se : : search :, second : : : : :, : : : : : : : section : : security : : see : :,, : : : : : : seek : seeks : seems : : : : :, : :, :,, :, :, : Seiter : send : sense :, :,,, : Sergeant : serious :, : :,, : : : serve : set : :, : settings : shirt : : : show : :,, : : saying : : : : : : similar :, : :,, : :,,,, : : : similarity : simply :, : : : : since : single :,, :, sit : site : : situation : : : situations : slightly : slumping : solely : Solicitor :, solitary : some : : : :,, somebody : somehow : someone : something : : :, : sometimes : soon : : : sorry : : sort : sought : sounds : Souter : : sovereign : speak : specific : : : :, specifically : : : : : : specificity : spent : splitting : split-second : : squad : : : squarely : : stage : : stake : stand :,, : standard :, :, :,, : :,, :,,,, :,, :,, :, :,,, : standards : standing : : stargazed : start : started : starts : State :, : : : : : : :, : :, : : :,, : statement : States :,, : : : : th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC : :, : State's : : : stationary : statute :, :, statutory : stay : step : : : stick : still : stop : stopping : stretch : strictly : : strike : stripped : : stronger : stuck : subdued : subject : subjective :, :, submit : : submitted :, subsection : subsequent :,, : subsided : substantial :, substantially :, :, : substantive : : : suffered : suffice : sufficient :, : : suggest : : suggesting : : suggests : : summary : : : : : :, sun : : : superseded : supervising : supplemental : support : supporting :, :, : : supports :, suppose : : : : supposed : : Supreme :, sure : : suspend : T T : :,, : take : : : :, : : :,, : : : :, : : : : : : : taken : : : : : takes : : talk : talking : : : : : taunt : teased : television : tell : : : : : telling : temporal : temporary : tense : term : termed : terms : : :, test : :, text : Thank : :, : : : :, their : : : : : : : :, themselves : they'd : thing : : : : : : : things : think : :,, :,, : :, :, :, : :,, :, :, : : :, : :, : : :,, : :, :, though : :, : : : : : : thought : : : : : : threat : : : three : : : : : threshold : through : : tighter : till : time : : :,,,,, :, : : : : top : total : totality : transcribed :, transporting : treated : trial :, :,,,, : true : : : : trying :, TV : twice : : two :, : : :,, : :, typographical : U ultimate : ultimately : unanimously : uncertain : unconstitutional : : : under : : : : : : : : : : underlying : understand : : : : :, : : : understood : unfair : unfortunately : United :,, : : : : : :, : unlawful : : unless : : : unlike : unnecessary : unresolved : until : unusual : : : : : : :, :, : : : : unwarranted : urge : use : : : :, : used : : : : :, :, : : useful :, uses : using : : usual : V v : :, :, : : : : :, : : :, : : :, :,,, : :, : : vacate : valid : : van : variety :, : verbiage : verdict : very : : : : : : view : :, : : viewed : : violate : :, : violated : : :, : violates : : violating : violation : :, :,, : :,,, : : : volunteer : th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC wanted : wanton : warning :,, : Washington :,, wasn't : : : : :, : : : : : watching : water : : : : : : : : :,,, :,, :,,,, : :,,, way : : : : : : : :, : : Wednesday : weight : well : : :, : :,, : : : : : : :, :, : : : : : : : : :, :,,, :, :,, :,,, :, : W wait : walked : want :,, : : : : : : : : well-illustrated : were : : :, :,, :,, :, : : : : :, : : :, :, : weren't :,,, we'll : : : : we're : : : :, : : : : : : whatsoever : White : : Whitley : : Whitson : whole : Williams : : : willing : Wilson : win : wish : wishes : withstand : wonder : wondering : word : words : work :,,, :,,,, : :,, : :, : : : :,, :, :, : :, :, : :,,,, working : : : : :, : -hour : : : : : : : : -degree : worst : :, : wouldn't : : :, wrapped : write : :, writes : wrong : : :, wrote : X :, X Y year : years : : :, - : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : :, : : : : : : :, : : : : : : : : : : : : -hour : :, : : : :,, :, : :, :,, : (e) : :, : : : :, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC 