 IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES- - - - - - - - - - - - - - -xREPUBLICAN PARTY OF MINNESOTA, et al., Petitioners, v. VERNA KELLY, et al. : : : : : - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -xNo. -Washington, D.C.Tuesday, March , The above-entitled matter came on for oralargument before the Supreme Court of the United States at: a.m.APPEARANCES:JAMES BOPP, JR., ESQ., Terre Haute, Indiana; on behalfof the Petitioners.ALAN I. GILBERT, ESQ., St. Paul, Minnesota; on behalfof the Respondents. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC C O N T E N T SORAL ARGUMENT OF JAMES BOPP, JR., ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioners ORAL ARGUMENT OFALAN I. GILBERT, ESQ.On behalf of the Respondents. REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OFJAMES BOPP, JR., ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioners PAGE th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC P R O C E E D I N G S[: a.m.]CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: We'll hear argumentnow on number -, The Republican Party of Minnesota,et al., versus Verna Kelly. Mr. Bopp.ORAL ARGUMENT OF JAMES BOPP, JR.,ON BEHALF OF PETITIONERMR. BOPP: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it pleasethe Court: Like most states, Minnesota selects its judgesthrough periodic popular elections. And when candidates'speech is severely restricted, the people are deniedaccess to the information they need to make an informedchoice. While state court judges are different from otherelected officials, Minnesota's Announce Clause, as nowinterpreted by its supreme court, goes too far resultingin elections without campaigns.QUESTION: Could we find out from you just whatthe Announce Clause prohibits that isn't alreadyprohibited by the Pledges and Promises Clause, as it'sbeen interpreted?MR. BOPP: Yes, Justice O'Connor. The AnnounceClause prohibits, according the decision of the EighthCircuit, any general -- allows general discussions of thelaw, while it prohibits any implying of how a person wouldrule -- a candidate would rule, on an issue or case before th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC the Court.QUESTION: How does that differ, then, from thePledges or Promises Clause?MR. BOPP: The Pledges and Promises Clauseprohibits any pledge or promise that -- other thanfaithful performance of duties in office. The differencebetween "announce," the plain language of the clause, and"pledge or promise" -- "announce" is simply making known,is one of the formulations of the Eighth Circuit, orimplying; while "pledging or promising" is making acommitment on how you would rule in a future case.QUESTION: But you think the Announce Clause,even as interpreted by the Eighth Circuit to be the sameas the ABA canon, goes beyond that?MR. BOPP: Well, Your Honor, there is one aspectof the current ABA canon that has -- was notdiscussed by the Ninth Circuit or by the ABA brief. Andthat --QUESTION: And where does that appear in yourbrief? Where is the ABA canon we're talking about? Whereis it? I want to look at it while you're talking aboutit.MR. BOPP: I do not have a reference to the ABAcanon, Your Honor. I apologize. The ABA canon statesthat a -- the ABA canon states that a candidate may th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC not make statements to commit, or appears to commit indeciding cases, controversies, or issues likely to comebefore the Court. While the ABA and the Eighth Circuitseem to imply that the canon was similar, if not thesame, as the canon, they did not discuss thedifference between the words "announce" and "commit.""Commit," if you look in the dictionary, says"pledge." And, thus, the canon appears to be morenarrow under plain --QUESTION: Well, the Eighth Circuit did say thatit was -- that Minnesota's provision is the same as theABA canon, right?MR. BOPP: It did, Your -- it did, Your Honor.QUESTION: And the ABA canon prohibitscandidates, judicial candidates, from making statementsthat commit or appear to commit a candidate.MR. BOPP: Yes.QUESTION: And that looks very much like thePledge or Promise language. I -- I don't know how weshould interpret this.MR. BOPP: Well, one of the problems, YourHonor, is that the January th opinion of the MinnesotaSupreme Court interpreting the Announce Clause adopted theEighth Circuit opinion and its interpretations.QUESTION: Right. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. BOPP: Unfortunately, the Eighth Circuit hadconflicting statements about the scope of theinterpretation that it was announcing.QUESTION: Well, you were -- you appear to bearguing, in your brief at least, that the Announce Clauseis unconstitutionally vague.MR. BOPP: Yes, Your Honor.QUESTION: Is that your argument you're making?MR. BOPP: Yes, we are.QUESTION: But did you make that argument below?MR. BOPP: Yes, we did, as to the interpretationproffered in the district court, adding the words "likelyto come before the Court." But where we are now, YourHonor, is that the Eighth Circuit sua sponte added otherglosses to this canon, even though it was not advocated byany of the parties.QUESTION: You didn't include a vaguenesschallenge in your petition for certiorari, did you?MR. BOPP: Yes, we did.QUESTION: Is it in the question on which wegranted cert, do you think?MR. BOPP: No, but it is encompassed within theviolation of the First Amendment that we allege.QUESTION: But I wouldn't have thought vaguenesswas a First Amendment issue. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. BOPP: Well, in the context of FirstAmendment protected speech, a -- something that chillsFirst Amendment speech, because of -- it is a vague rule,and therefore does not provide a bright line necessary forthe exercise of that speech, that it constitutes a FirstAmendment violation.QUESTION: One of the statements of the EighthCircuit -- and I don't have the citation to the brief; Ihave the citation to the Federal Third -- F.d . It says that the Announce Clause applies only todiscussion of a candidate's predisposition on issueslikely to come before the candidate if elected to office.MR. BOPP: That is one of the threeconstructions.QUESTION: If we could -- would you agree thatthat's perhaps the narrowest of the three constructions? I want to find what might be the most likely statement tosurvive review and then have you discuss that, because Itake it that you would not be -- you would not agree thateven that is constitutional.MR. BOPP: It is not the narrowest, Your Honor,because it uses the word "issue." There are otherformulations --QUESTION: Yes.MR. BOPP: -- in the Eighth Circuit case where th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC they use the word "decide a case," such as on page a ofthe petition -- the petition appendix. It preventscandidates from, quote, "implying how they would decidecases," end of quote. And they also, on page a of theappendix to the petition, say that, quote -- that thecanon, quote, "applies only to discussions of acandidate's predisposition on issues," as you've quoted,and then finally concludes on page with the statementthat it prohibits candidates, quote, "only from publiclymaking known how they would decide issues." So we haveconflicting interpretations of --QUESTION: Well, let's take the -- let's takethe last one. I take it, if that were the authoritativenarrowing constructing that were before us, you woulddisagree with its constitutionality.MR. BOPP: Yes, Your Honor.QUESTION: Would you agree that that would be aconstitutional standard if it were part of a code ofjudicial ethics that applied to the judge after the judgewas on the bench?MR. BOPP: No, and -- but I believe that thiscanon does apply to judges once they are elected and onthe bench.QUESTION: Well, are judges, after they are onthe bench, subject to, all of the same rights that they th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC have before they go on the bench, insofar as making publiccomments?MR. BOPP: No, they may be limited in a numberof different ways, Your Honor, that are necessary toadvance compelling interests.QUESTION: Well, why is it that, if an electionis in July, the State can, under your view, not prohibitstatements in June before he's elected, but they canprohibit the statements in August, after he's elected?MR. BOPP: Well, Your Honor, the First Amendmentapplies -- has its most urgent application in campaignsfor election, and it is -- and while both judges andjudicial candidates may be limited in their speech, it hasnever been held that simply announcing your views on adisputed legal or political issue constitutes anindication of partiality such that would justify, forinstance, recusal or disqualification.QUESTION: But I thought you said it would beokay. Then maybe I didn't understand your answer. Ithought you said that the kind of limitation that JusticeKennedy referred to would be all right for sitting judges,that you could prohibit sitting judges from letting theirviews be known on any controversial issues.MR. BOPP: Well, then I misspoke, if that wasyour understanding. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: Like the incorporation doctrine orsubstantive due process and so forth --MR. BOPP: Canon --QUESTION: -- you think you could prohibitjudges from discussing those matters.MR. BOPP: No. Canon -- and in fact, Canon(b) of the Minnesota canons encourages judges to proposechanges in the substantive and procedural law, evenindividually.QUESTION: Sitting judges -- sitting judges runfor election. So whatever rights the contender would havein an election, I assume that the sitting judge who wasrunning for reelection would have those same rights, inyour view.MR. BOPP: We believe that they should.QUESTION: Because the sitting judge could notbe restricted, could he or she, in a way?MR. BOPP: Well, sitting judges are restricted,for instance, from commenting on pending cases that arepending before them, quite properly. But here we aretalking about stating general views about the law.QUESTION: So sitting --QUESTION: You wouldn't object to candidatesbeing prohibited from commenting about particular caseseither, would you? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. BOPP: No, I would not.QUESTION: I didn't take your objection to bethat you say, you know, that there's a case pending in thecourts, if I were appointed, I'll tell you how I woulddecide that case. You --MR. BOPP: We --QUESTION: -- wouldn't permit that, would you?MR. BOPP: We believe that that can properly be --QUESTION: I thought you gave examples, or your-- one of the briefs gave examples of commenting onspecific decisions that had been rendered by the MinnesotaSupreme Court, and you said that restraint on that commentwas impermissible.MR. BOPP: Yes.QUESTION: Am I not right?MR. BOPP: Yes. That is our position.QUESTION: So you're making --QUESTION: That was a past case. That was adistinction you're making between past cases and pendingcases in the court that are likely to come before you ifyou're elected.MR. BOPP: Yes, I -- the First Amendmentprotects discussion of past cases. However, the EighthCircuit opinion only allows discussion of past cases while th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC the enforcement authorities, specifically the Office ofLawyers Professional Responsibility, had previously saidthat you could criticize those opinions.QUESTION: Well, supposing that -- supposingthat Minnesota -- the Minnesota Supreme Court hadannounced that its Fourth Amendment was more protectivethan the federal Fourth Amendment and a candidate runningfor that court saw that several cases, the evidence hadbeen suppressed in Minnesota courts, the defendant wasacquitted, so he said, "I think we should go back to theidea that our Fourth Amendment is the same as the federalFourth Amendment." Would that be permitted under thisrule?MR. BOPP: Under the Announce Clause?QUESTION: Under the Announce Clause.MR. BOPP: Not if it's considered implying howyou would rule in a future case.QUESTION: But do we know that -- do we -- isthere any mechanism for getting a clarification? And thebig problem in this case is this is a frontal attack, andso we have no specific examples. And you can say, "Ithink this would fit, and I think that wouldn't fit." Isthere any mechanism in Minnesota for seekingclarification? For example, whether the Minnesota SupremeCourt's current rule is, indeed, the ABA's rule? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. BOPP: You can seek a private advisoryopinion that is not binding on either the office or theboard. And petitioner Wersal sought such an opinion aftersuit was filed regarding other matters, and they declinedto provide that advice.QUESTION: Mr. Bopp, I would assume your answerwould be that if it's too fuzzy for us to understand whatit means in order to rule upon its constitutionality, it'salso too fuzzy for a judicial candidate to know what itmeans in order to conform his conduct to it and,therefore, unconstitutional.MR. BOPP: Yes, sir, Your Honor, not only tocandidates, but this canon binds the family members, thesupporters of the candidate. If they say anything that isviewed to violate this construction -- this newconstruction of this rule, then the candidate, him orherself, is subject to discipline or removal from office.QUESTION: Well, I still want to make clear yourposition. Your position is -- is that the judge can,after the judge's election, be disciplined, sanctioned forcertain remarks that he could not be sanctioned for beforethe election. Is that correct?MR. BOPP: No, Your Honor, and if I gave youthat impression, I apologize. QUESTION: In other words, the rule -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. BOPP: I am not --QUESTION: -- post and pre-election, the rights --MR. BOPP: The rule --QUESTION: -- to speak are the same.MR. BOPP: The rule is the same. But I thinkthe point I was making was that once a judge assumesoffice, there are restrictions on, for instance, hisability to discuss a pending case that is not imposed upona lawyer that is not involved in the case in any way.QUESTION: Well, do you claim --MR. BOPP: So then --QUESTION: All right. Then your position isthat there is a difference as it applies to pending casesas to which a sitting judge has to -- to which a sittingjudge has been assigned.MR. BOPP: Yes, there are specific ethical --QUESTION: And --MR. BOPP: -- canons that apply in that.QUESTION: And that's all.MR. BOPP: And that's appropriate --QUESTION: Now --MR. BOPP: -- an appropriate limit.QUESTION: -- are there limits on what thecandidate can say? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. BOPP: Yes. I --QUESTION: And those are what?MR. BOPP: It's in the realm of Pledges andPromises. It would apply to candidates whether they'resitting judges or not, and that is that a candidate forjudicial office shall not pledge or promise certainresults in deciding a particular case or issue in a casewithout regard to the law or facts of the case.QUESTION: Suppose he said, "There are a lot ofcriminal cases pending," and, to take the Chief Justice'shypothetical, "we've gone too far in interpreting theFourth Amendment, and I'm going to be more strict." Inyour view --MR. BOPP: I think that's a --QUESTION: -- that could be prohibited.MR. BOPP: No, that is allowed, Your Honor,because he's not promising certain results in a particularcase. That is, again --QUESTION: He says, "I promise when these casescome before me, this is what I'll do."MR. BOPP: Then that is a pledge or promise ofan outcome.QUESTION: And in your view, that can beprohibited.MR. BOPP: Yes, because there is a -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: Well, I'm surprised you take thatview.MR. BOPP: Well, Your Honor, there is a publicperception of the impartiality of the judiciary that Ithink properly can be taken into account.QUESTION: Well --MR. BOPP: And I think this rule announces arule that is consistent with the judge's obligation todecide cases in accordance with his or her role.QUESTION: Well, that's an extremely fine lineyou're drawing, it seems to me, because I think a momentago, in response to my question, you said that a candidatewould be prohibited, and wrongly prohibited, under yourview -- on your view of it and from saying that Minnesotashould adopt the federal Fourth Amendment standard ratherthan the more liberal Fourth Amendment standard that theSupreme Court of Minnesota hypothetically had it. You saythat a candidate ought to be allowed to do that, but heisn't under the Minnesota rule?MR. BOPP: He is not, under the -- well, to theextent that we know what the Announce Clause means --QUESTION: Yeah.MR. BOPP: -- with this conflicting formulationsunder the Eighth Circuit opinion, talking about cases orissues -- talking about, implying, or making known -- to th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC the extent that we know the rule, it would appear thatsuch a statement would be prohibited --QUESTION: And you --MR. BOPP: -- because it would imply what hewould rule in the future.QUESTION: And you say that the First Amendmentprohibits that?MR. BOPP: No, I'd say the First Amendmentprotects talking about prior decisions.QUESTION: What about --MR. BOPP: And one of the problems is we'retalking about the rule -- the Minnesota rule versus --QUESTION: Yeah.MR. BOPP: -- other proposed rules.QUESTION: But if --QUESTION: What about comment on a -- by acandidate who is not yet a judge on a case which is thenpending before the court? In your view, can the Stateprohibit the candidate from saying, "I've been readingabout this case. I know what the evidence is, and Ibelieve so and so should be convicted, and I think thesentence ought to be the following." Could the State,consistently with the First Amendment, prohibit that kindof a comment?MR. BOPP: Well, there would seem to be, under th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Gentile, more leeway for a lawyer not in a pending case todiscuss a pending case.QUESTION: What's the answer to my question?MR. BOPP: I think -- I think it could not beprohibited.QUESTION: In the question that the ChiefJustice asked, suppose the judge said, "I pledge andpromise that if you elect me, I will vote in every FourthAmendment case to restore the law to what it was." That'sa pledge and a promise, which I thought your argumentstarted out saying you accept that the pledge or promiseis a valid restriction --MR. BOPP: I do, Your Honor.QUESTION: -- that you can't go on that to theAnnounce. So suppose that instead of -- the Chief Justicesuggested, "I think it would be a good idea if the courtwent back there" -- but if he said, "I pledge and promisethat I will vote that way" --MR. BOPP: That is a classic pledge and promisethat I think can be appropriated prohibited under theFirst Amendment.QUESTION: As to issues and not as to particularcases.MR. BOPP: As both to issues and cases.QUESTION: So that you -- you can't disable th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC yourself from being --MR. BOPP: Open minded.QUESTION: -- persuaded by counsel that theviews you've held your whole life over the incorporationdoctrine, turn out to be wrong.MR. BOPP: Yes. And while judges certainly haveviews, and they announce these views in numerous differentways, if they are binding themselves not to have an openmind and to decide a case in advance, then that is aviolation of the oath, and that type of pledge or promiseshould be and can be prohibited under the First Amendment.QUESTION: Is this different from that? Thatis, I read through the Minnesota Bar Association's brief,the ABA's brief, and portions of the Brennen brief. Allright? They all suggested to me that this ethical rule,like all ethical rules, is vague, interpreted byinterpretive opinions, of which there are many. I mean,there are two pages of them in these briefs.Now, as I understood it, it comes down to aneffort to do just what I did in my own Senate confirmationhearing, to say, "I will try to reveal my judicialphilosophy. I will try to stay away from anything that isgoing to commit myself or appear to commit myself abouthow to decide a future case." All right.MR. BOPP: And I agree. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: Now, if that's what they're trying todo -- do you agree that is what this is trying to do? And, second, if that is what they're trying to do, why isthat unconstitutional?MR. BOPP: If it amounts to a pledge or apromise --QUESTION: No, it doesn't. I used the wordsthat -- of the ABA brief. I've used the words -- I'mreferring to the briefs to call those arguments to yourmind.What they say this comes down to is you cannotcommit yourself or appear to commit yourself as to how youwill decide a particular case or issue if it arises. Butyou can, and there are two pages of this in the MinnesotaBar brief. I'm just trying to call that to your mind --MR. BOPP: Thank you.QUESTION: -- of all the things you can discuss:judicial philosophy, character, this and that. There weretwo pages of them, and they're all quotes -- in quotes. All right. So, one, am I correct in my interpretation? MR. BOPP: Yes.QUESTION: Two, if I am, why does theConstitution forbid it?MR. BOPP: If the word "commit" means "pledge,"then I think you're correct in -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: No, I told you what it means. "Commit" means "commit." We can't go more than the words"commit" or "appear to commit," other than to illustratethem by example. And the Bar Association brief contains examples that have been given. They're all in quotes. They come from an authoritative source. So that's where Iam in what this means. Am I right? And if I am right,what's wrong with it?MR. BOPP: Well, Your Honor, what is wrong withit --opinion?QUESTION: But first, am I right, in yourMR. BOPP: you're not right. And what is wrongwith it is that the ABA suggested that "commit" means thesame thing as "announce." And what I -- my course of myargument is that "commit" means "pledge," and that, tothat extent, the ABA canon is different than the currentAnnounce Clause. In fact, it's --QUESTION: All right, so if you're saying theword is "announce," and all these briefs and the barassociation are wrong when they say that means commit orappear to commit, on that view, what should I do with thiscase?MR. BOPP: You should strike down the AnnounceClause, because it is impossible -- hopelessly impossible th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC to know what is included within the rule and what isoutside the rule. That, and not only did the EighthCircuit use different formulations of the rule that meandifferent things, in terms of its scope and application,but it also had exceptions to the rule, discussion -- ageneral discussion of case law or a candidate's judicialphilosophy, but with the proviso that if you imply how youwill rule in a particular case, then you have violated therule.QUESTION: And on an issue on a particular case.MR. BOPP: An issue, including --QUESTION: Can I just follow that up for onesecond? All right, now take the other assumption. Let'sassume that it does mean, as the ABA says, "appear" or"appear to commit." On that view of it -- and assume thatI'm right. I know you think I'm wrong on that. Assumingthat I'm right --MR. BOPP: With all due respect.QUESTION: -- then is it constitutional, in youropinion?language.MR. BOPP: No, because of the "appear to commit"QUESTION: So you think the ABA can and is,itself, unconstitutional.MR. BOPP: As I interpret it, yes, because the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC "appear to commit" takes us back away from a bright lineof a pledge or a promise into the realm of implying whatyou are saying. And there --QUESTION: What is the ABA's position onjudicial elections?MR. BOPP: They are not in favor of judicial --QUESTION: I didn't think they were.(Laughter.)QUESTION: But you're submitting this case to uson the proposition that, under the First Amendment, ajudicial candidate can be subjected to restraints onspeech that other -- that are inapplicable to othercandidates.MR. BOPP: I believe that they can, Your Honor,because judges have a dual role. One role is to make law,and particularly state court judges making common law, butthey also have a duty to decide cases impartially. Sowhile they are running for office, in order to respectjudicial impartiality, they should not be pledging toviolate the oath. That is promising now how to decide acase in the future when it comes before --QUESTION: Well, how does this play out withsitting judges who write opinions saying, "In my view, forexample, I think the death penalty is unconstitutional"? There it is for everybody to see. And presumably in a th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC state like Minnesota, that judge will come up for electionagain or in another state for retention election. Youdon't think it's -- can that be prohibited --MR. BOPP: No.QUESTION: -- somehow?MR. BOPP: No. No, it may not.QUESTION: And that judge has expressed a viewthat presumably the judge will follow in a future case.MR. BOPP: But that is -- but that is differentfrom declaring or announcing that you have a closed mindas to any future --QUESTION: No. I don't know, if it's thoroughlyexpressed. Now, if the next case comes along involvingthat very issue, can the judge be changed for bias?MR. BOPP: No. No, you may not be recused, anddue process is not violated.QUESTION: But what if a candidate says not, "Ipledge that in every case I will say vote against thedeath penalty," but, "I have real doubts about the deathpenalty jurisprudence." I mean, I don't think Minnesotahas a death penalty, but --MR. BOPP: No, it doesn't.QUESTION: -- let's assume it does. "And Ithink it probably should change." Is that permissibleunder this rule? And if the rule says it's not th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC permissible, is that statement protected by the FirstAmendment?MR. BOPP: I'm sorry. Under the Minnesota ruleor my rule?QUESTION: Under the Minnesota rule.MR. BOPP: It -- well, it's very difficult toknow, Your Honor.QUESTION: Okay, well, under your rule.MR. BOPP: Under our rule, it would be allowed. And, in fact, judges are encouraged to do -- makeproposals just like that under these canons.QUESTION: Now I don't understand what you saythe Minnesota rule is. I would have thought your answerwould be, "That's probably okay under the Minnesotarules," because he only says probably -- "I think it'sprobably, you know, unconstitutional."MR. BOPP: Under the Minnesota rule if yousimply imply how you might rule --QUESTION: Well, it doesn't. It says, "I havedoubts about it," according to the Chief Justice, "I havedoubts about it." I think that doesn't necessarily imply-- but I thought --MR. BOPP: Well, it's --QUESTION: I thought --MR. BOPP: It's hard to know. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: But I thought that your position withregard to judicial opinions is -- is that it is perfectlyokay for a sitting judge to make known to the public hisview on something like the death penalty when he does itin an opinion and, therefore, that can be out there.MR. BOPP: Yes, it is --QUESTION: Subject to criticism, indeed.MR. BOPP: Yes --QUESTION: But somebody who's running againsthim in an election cannot let be known what his view is onthe death penalty.MR. BOPP: It is perfectly appropriate for ajudge to do that in an opinion or in speeches or a lawreview article.QUESTION: In speeches? You mean the judgecould go out and -- a sitting judge can go out and make aspeech and say, "In the next death penalty case to comebefore me, I'm going to vacate. I'm going to vote tovacate the death penalty. I don't care what the argumentis."MR. BOPP: Then not that statement. If he madethat statement, he'd be subject to recusal and a properapplication of --QUESTION: Okay, well --MR. BOPP: -- the pledge rule. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: Okay. Well, then what he can say inspeeches certainly is less than what he can say in ajudicial opinion in which he says, "I vote to vacate thedeath penalty because I believe it's unconstitutional." Imean, there's some line between them.MR. BOPP: Yes, I would think he would. Hedoes, Your Honor. And may I reserve the balance of mytime?from you.QUESTION: Very well. Mr. Gilbert, we'll hearORAL ARGUMENT OF ALAN I. GILBERTON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTSMR. GILBERT: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court: I would like to take the opportunity totry to clarify some of the questions and answers that havebeen provided as to what the construed rule in Minnesotameans. And I refer the Court to page a, of the certpetition appendix, where the Eighth Circuit stated thedefinitive narrow construction of this rule which saysthat the rule only prohibits candidates from --QUESTION: Whereabouts on the page?MR. GILBERT: The beginning of the secondparagraph, Your Honor. It only restricts judicialcandidates from publicly making known how they woulddecide issues likely to come before them as judges. That th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC is the narrow construction of this Eighth Circuit opinion. That is the construction that's being applied by the twoboards that I represent, and that is the construction thathas been incorporated in an authoritative order by theMinnesota Supreme Court.QUESTION: What about the example I posed toyour opponent? Someone says, "I think the MinnesotaSupreme Court's ruling on the Fourth Amendment, the stateFourth Amendment being broader, is wrong, and I -- if youwill elect me as a judge, I would try to change thataround."MR. GILBERT: Your Honor, this is where therecord is very clear as to what Mr. Wersal has done. Andin response to your question, the candidate couldcriticize a prior decision of a judge, but could not sayas to a future case how that candidate would decide thecase. And that's precisely --QUESTION: So let me put that to the test. If Isay, "I think the decision of the Supreme Court ofMinnesota two years ago saying that the Fourth Amendment -- state Fourth Amendment protected more than the federalFourth Amendment is wrong," he could do that, but hecouldn't say, "If you elect me to the Supreme Court, Iwould carry out my view."MR. GILBERT: Well, that would be a future case. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC And there's other considerations --QUESTION: Well, he told me he couldn't evensay, "I think that opinion is wrong. And that is not myposition concerning the meaning of the Fourth Amendment" --MR. GILBERT: Your Honor --QUESTION: -- "in Minnesota."MR. GILBERT: That's not correct, Your Honor. I refer you to the record in this case and what Mr. Wersalhas said in his literature. If you look at the firstvolume of the Joint Appendix, pages to , as well aspages to , they contain the actual statements thatMr. Wersal made as part of his campaign.QUESTION: What pages?MR. GILBERT: -- let's see -- to , and to . And look what he said. First of all, he talkedabout his judicial philosophy. He has said that he can'ttalk about his judicial philosophy. He did. He said,"I'm a strict constructionist," and he criticized theMinnesota Supreme Court for being a judicial activist. But more --QUESTION: What does that mean? I mean, that'sso fuzzy, that doesn't mean --MR. GILBERT: Well, but --QUESTION: -- that doesn't mean anything. It th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC doesn't say whether you're going adopt the incorporationdoctrine, whether you believe in substantive due process. It is totally imprecise. It's just nothing but fluff.MR. GILBERT: And candidates can say that. Andthat's the point.QUESTION: Can they say anything more thanfluff?meaning?QUESTION: Can they say anything that has anyMR. GILBERT: Absolutely. And what they can do-- look at what Mr. Wersal --QUESTION: But what about my example?MR. GILBERT: Your example, Your Honor, thecandidate can, as Mr. Wersal did, criticize a priordecision of the Court. And that's very clear from whathas happened in the Wersal case. What the candidatecannot do is say that, "If I'm elected, I'm going tooverturn that decision."QUESTION: Does that dichotomy make any sense atall?MR. GILBERT: Well, it does in the sense, YourHonor, that there's different dynamics involved once ajudge is elected and has to overturn a decision that'salready precedent in the State of Minnesota.QUESTION: So a candidate says, "This is the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC worst decision that's come down since Dred Scott, it's aplague on our people, it's an insult to the system, butI'm not telling you how I'll vote."(Laughter.)MR. GILBERT: Your Honor, that's the point.QUESTION: It's more than that. You assert thatthat does not, within the language that the Supreme Courthas adopted, it does not imply how he will vote on thatissue at a future date. He says, "It's the worst casewe've ever done." That doesn't imply how he's going tovote on it?MR. GILBERT: Well, that might well implywhether he's going to overturn it. But what the candidatecan say and what Mr. Wersal said -- if you look at thecriticism that he leveled at these decisions of theMinnesota Supreme Court, he said just as you indicated,Justice, that, "These decisions are" --QUESTION: What are you reading? Where are youreading from?MR. GILBERT: If you look at pages -- page ,for example, of the -- this is of the Joint Appendix -- hesays, on abortion, "The Court ordered the State must usewelfare funds to pay for abortion despite state law to thecontrary. The dissenting judge remarked," et cetera. This is under the topic of "Examples of Judicial th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Activism." But then he goes into greater detail on page.QUESTION: But is the statement at page thatyou read -- is that proscribable under the State's rule?MR. GILBERT: No. And that's the point. Whathas happened here, Your Honor, is that there was acomplaint filed against Mr. Wersal for all of thiscampaign material. And the then-director of the LawyersBoard, Marcia Johnson, in an opinion, on pages and of this appendix, said that the statements made by Mr.Wersal are not proscribable. And that's even before therule is narrowed.And if you look at page , the executivedirector said specifically that Mr. Wersal can criticizeprior decisions of the Court. And that's consistent withwhat the Board on Judicial Standards did in --QUESTION: What do you say --QUESTION: May he also, at the same time as theycriticized the decision, say, "I do not believe in staredecisis"?is --MR. GILBERT: Yes. He can't, because that QUESTION: Well, then isn't he saying how he'sgoing to rule on the case then?MR. GILBERT: Well, Your Honor -- it might be, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Your Honor. People might be able to imply from it, butit's still -- the distinction is --QUESTION: Might be able to imply that I don'tbelieve in stare decisis and I think this case is wrong.(Laughter.)QUESTION: Pretty clear, I think.MR. GILBERT: No, and I understand what you'resaying, Your Honor. The distinction that's made, if youlook at all the cases that have dealt with this issue, isa distinction between past cases on one hand and thenpending and future cases on another.QUESTION: As long as you're silent on yourviews on stare decisis, that's a fine distinction. But ifyou do reveal your views on stare decisis, thatdistinction is meaningless.MR. GILBERT: Perhaps. There could be otherissues that come up in terms of a case that would be avehicle to overturn particular decisions -- standing,things of that kind.QUESTION: So now you're saying there's adistinction between issues and cases. And I'm sayingyou're categorically stating your view about a particularissue, as the Chief Justice's example states, and you alsocategorically state, "I think stare decisis has no placein constitutional adjudication." Can he do that? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. GILBERT: Your Honor, again, the -- no,under the State's interpretation of the rule. And Iunderstand your point. It is a fine distinction. Butwhat the State is trying to do is protect the integrity ofthe judiciary at that point. And to the extent --QUESTION: This protects its integrity?MR. GILBERT: Your Honor, we think so. And thereason for that is that --QUESTION: I mean, it's just a game. It's justa dance, you know --MR. GILBERT: Well, this is --QUESTION: -- I don't say anything about staredecisis and it's okay. If I say something about staredecisis, it's not okay?MR. GILBERT: Well, again, Your Honor, Iunderstand the hypothetical. This is a hypothetical thatis kind of on the fringe. I would agree with you. But atthe same time, most of the situations are going to beclear, are going to be --QUESTION: Well, it is such a problem to knowexactly what the provision covers now. It isn't clear tome. And what we end up with at the end of the day is asystem where an incumbent judge can express views inwritten opinions, and perhaps otherwise, as well, and yeta candidate for that office is somehow restricted from th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC discussing the very same thing in the election campaign. That's kind of an odd system, designed to what? Maintainincumbent judges, or what?MR. GILBERT: No, it's not, Your Honor. Infact, that is not correct in terms of the effect of thatsituation. Again, if you look at page of the JointAppendix, what the executive director of the Lawyers Boardhas said is that an incumbent judge can criticize theprior decision of that sitting judge. So that thechallenger actually has greater opportunity than anincumbent judge, because an incumbent judge has a recordof decisions.QUESTION: Do you -- you misspoke, I think. Youmeant the challenger --QUESTION: You did --MR. GILBERT: The challenger. I'm sorry.QUESTION: -- the challenger, who is not ajudge, can criticize the specific decision of the judgewho wrote it.MR. GILBERT: That's correct, Your Honor.QUESTION: So they're equally free at the leastto discuss the specific past cases.MR. GILBERT: At the least. And I would submitthat the challenger is in a better situation because ofthe -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: All right. Can I ask you thisquestion --MR. GILBERT: Yes.QUESTION: -- because I understand that -- Ihave two questions, really. One is the line that's being-- that you're trying to draw, everyone would concede is avery difficult one to draw, but it is the line that Itried to draw.MR. GILBERT: Yes.QUESTION: Now, what would happen if, instead ofmy being in the Senate, I had been in an electioncampaign, and I was trying to draw this very line betweencommitments to future cases, specific ones, and generaljudicial philosophy. And suppose my opponent, after,said, "Breyer made a mistake. He didn't get it right,"but I was in good faith. What could happen, or wouldlikely happen, to me under this rule?MR. GILBERT: As a -- I'm sorry, as a sittingjudge, Your Honor?QUESTION: Well, I then -- suppose I won. Fine. I've won the election. My opponent -- what I'm trying tounderstand is what are the consequences? It is, afterall, an ethical rule, and ethical rules are often blurry.MR. GILBERT: Yes.QUESTION: And I want to know what would likely th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC happen to a person who makes a mistake in drawing thisvery fine line, assuming that it's in good faith.MR. GILBERT: Your Honor, the Board on JudicialStandards or the Lawyers Board would have jurisdictionwith respect to a violation which sounds like a technicalviolation, as you describe it, and could impose somediscipline, but I would suspect that discipline would bevery minute, if at all --QUESTION: Could a state --MR. GILBERT: -- under those circumstances.QUESTION: -- make a violation of the provisionsyou described a criminal offense?MR. GILBERT: No, Your Honor. These are notcriminal statues.QUESTION: But could a state do it under theFirst Amendment? Is there any authority you have for theproposition, that can -- a state can impose a civilsanction, but not a criminal sanction?MR. GILBERT: I'm not aware of any authoritythat would allow a criminal sanction for such a thing.QUESTION: Can I ask you one other question?QUESTION: That's not my question. Is there anyauthority that a state, under the First Amendment, is freeto impose a civil sanction but not a criminal sanction onparticular speech? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. GILBERT: I'm not aware of authority to thateffect either, no.QUESTION: This is a technical question, but thesentence you started out reading from the Eighth Circuit'sopinion is not identical to the ABA canon. And obviouslyif this rule differs from the ABA canon and is stricter,one could say there's a less restrictive alternative,namely the ABA canon. And so I'm quite concerned abouthow to deal with that problem. Do I assume that, in fact,Minnesota does mean it's indistinguishable from ABA canon,which is what the ABA says? Or what your opponent says? How do I deal with that?MR. GILBERT: Your Honor, our position is, justas the ABA indicated, that our rule is the functionalequivalent of a commitment clause.QUESTION: The Minnesota Supreme Court turneddown the ABA rule, the ABA rule -- we're talking --they're both ABA rules. Minnesota now has on its booksthe rule. The rule is the one that you said isthe functional equivalent of the current rule. And yetthe Minnesota Supreme Court considered and turned downthat rule. So that's one of the aspects of this case thatmakes it very fuzzy. The court that turned it down nowsays, "We agree with the Eighth Circuit." And you'retelling us that the Eighth Circuit has adopted, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC essentially, the ABA's current rule.MR. GILBERT: Yes, Your Honor, and that is thecase, and you are right. Back in , there wasdiscussion of adoption of the commit clause by theMinnesota Supreme Court. It did not occur at that time. There has been a lot that has evolved over the last sevenyears, Your Honor, and the Minnesota Supreme Court hasmade the decision in its January th, , order thatthis construction by the Eighth Circuit is theconstruction that they are going to place on their clause.QUESTION: Whatever that is.MR. GILBERT: Well, this construction, YourHonor, is, for all practical purposes, identical to thecommitment clause. And --QUESTION: Mr. Gilbert, may I ask --MR. GILBERT: Yes.QUESTION: -- a question based on what you saidabout stare decisis? You say -- have said consistentlyyou can discuss your judicial philosophy. Well, whywouldn't one's position on stare decisis fall underjudicial philosophy?MR. GILBERT: I think it would, Your Honor.QUESTION: So that -- so you're changing backthen, because you said a while ago that stare decisis --if you said, "I think that decision about the Fourth th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Amendment was wrong, and I don't believe in staredecisis," you said you couldn't put those two together.MR. GILBERT: Your Honor, you can put themtogether. I think the question was, could someone thenconclude from that what the ramifications would be if thatparticular candidate came to the Supreme Court, forexample, on what the candidate would do with respect tothat decision -- whether the candidate would overturn ornot.QUESTION: And your answer was it would implyhow he's going to vote and, therefore, would not be --MR. GILBERT: Again --QUESTION: -- would not be acceptable, right?MR. GILBERT: Yes, Your Honor, with thedistinction being to protect the integrity of thejudiciary.QUESTION: Well, let me ask about that. Youknow, in evaluating whether a state has demonstrated thekind of significant interest necessary to abridge speech,it seems to me we have to look at the entirety of thestate law to see what interest it's pursuing.I, frankly, am absolutely befuddled by the factthat Minnesota wants its judges elected -- that's itsconstitutional provision -- and then enacts statutoryprovisions that are intended to prevent the electorate th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC from knowing, even by implication, how these candidatesare going to behave when they get on the bench. It seemsto me a total contradiction. And, indeed, it looks to melike a legislative attempt to simply repeal Minnesota'sconstitutional provision providing for the election ofjudges, which is a neat and easy way to get rid of it ifyou can't do it by plebiscite.Why does it make any sense to vote for a judgein an election, a judge who is not able, even byimplication, to tell the electorate what kind of a judgehe would be?MR. GILBERT: Well, but, Your Honor, that's thefallacy in that statement, is that a candidate can tellthe electorate what kind of candidate they are. The onlything that the candidate cannot say -- it's a very limitedrestriction -- and that is, how I am going to decide afuture case.QUESTION: Not a particular -- well, no, notjust a future case, a future issue -- any, not aparticular case, but any issue --MR. GILBERT: And --QUESTION: -- how I will vote on the FourthAmendment situation, how I will vote on the incorporationdoctrine. I can understand your saying, he shall notcommit himself, "I promise to vote this way." No judge th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC should do that. He should be able to be persuaded thathe's been wrong. But to say that my current view is thatthe Fourth Amendment should be just like the federalFourth Amendment, and stare decisis in constitutionalmatters is not a doctrine that I think is very strong --it seems to me you ought to be able to say that.MR. GILBERT: And they can say that. I thinkthe difference of opinion we have here is whether they cango the extra step and just say, "And I would try tooverturn the decision if I'm elected."QUESTION: Well, if that --MR. GILBERT: I have to --QUESTION: -- if that indicates adisqualification or a lack of temperament for the bench,the voters can decide that. The bar association and thejudges can come out and say, "We have a candidate runningwho doesn't have the right judicial temperament," and thevoters decide. That's the way elections work.MR. GILBERT: They can do that, but I submit toyou, what happens if that judge wins? What happens ifthat judge wins and the litigants come before that judgewho has prejudged that case?QUESTION: Well, I suppose the people have saidwhat kind of judges they want.MR. GILBERT: Oh, and it's all of a sudden th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC majority opinion?QUESTION: Why is that any worse than litigantswho come before a judge who's already sitting and who hassaid in a prior opinion that he thinks the FourthAmendment in Minnesota should be interpreted the same waythe federal Fourth Amendment is? Why --MR. GILBERT: Because in --QUESTION: -- is that any different?MR. GILBERT: Because in a prior opinion, dueprocess was accorded, because the judge actually heard theargument of the litigants, heard the facts and theapplicable law.QUESTION: You mean a judge can't have anopinion without hearing from all sides and going in briefsand so forth?MR. GILBERT: Absolutely.QUESTION: Well, what if -- even if he gives aspeech, does he have to first have this sort of vetting?MR. GILBERT: Not at all, Your Honor. The only-- again, the limited restriction here is that the -- ajudge cannot -- I'm sorry -- a judicial candidate cannotprejudge a future case, cannot say, "I think this statuteover here is unconstitutional," or, "I think, in consumerfraud cases, that anybody who wins is entitled to punitivedamages." th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: So you don't trust the electorate inMinnesota to decide whether a judge has a judicialtemperament. You wish us to depart from the usualphilosophy --MR. GILBERT: Again --QUESTION: -- that we do not allow the State topresume that the public is better off not having completeinformation.MR. GILBERT: Well --QUESTION: Maybe we should know about thisjudge's temperament. And if he spouts off on all sorts ofissues, we say, this is not the kind of judge we want.MR. GILBERT: Your Honor, again, this is abalance that's being struck. There's competing interestshere. There's the First Amendment interest that we're allfamiliar with. There's the due process interest ofindividual litigants. There's the compelling governmentalinterests that the State has in ensuring the integrity ofthe judiciary, both in terms of the actual integrity andthe perception of it. And that's why this limitedrestriction is appropriate.QUESTION: Maybe you shouldn't have judicialelections if the last is a significant State interest.MR. GILBERT: Well, Your Honor, that's --QUESTION: To the degree that you're making it a th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC significant State interest here. See, I just questionwhether it is a significant State interest, because youhave a constitution that says, "We're going to havejudicial elections." Now, that may be a very bad idea,but as long as that's in your constitution, I find it hardto believe that it is a significant State interest ofMinnesota to prevent elections from being informed.MR. GILBERT: Well, again, Your Honor, we'retrying to weigh the different interests. I am sure youwouldn't suggest that the State doesn't have a compellinginterest in the integrity of the judiciary, and that is acompeting interest that is being weighed here, and thatresults in the commitment clause that the ABA has adoptedand the parallel provision that has been construednarrowly by the Eighth Circuit, which, again, only forbidsor prohibits a judge saying, "I'm going to decide thisparticular issue this way in the future."QUESTION: So you're saying the public doesn'tknow enough in order to determine whether a judge has therequisite qualifications for office.MR. GILBERT: Your Honor, I'm not saying thatthe public knows or doesn't know. The concern is whathappens if that candidate is elected, and then you or anyother litigant comes before that candidate, who is now ajudge, and tries to litigate the issue that the judge has th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC already prejudged.QUESTION: Well --MR. GILBERT: How fair is that?QUESTION: My goodness, we -- I think we have -- I will say present company excluded -- I know we havehad judges on this Court who have answered questions aboutparticular legal issues to the Senate confirmationhearing. Are you saying that those judges weredisqualified from sitting in cases in which that issuewould later come up?MR. GILBERT: No, Your Honor, I'm not. Andactually, I'm surprised to hear that.QUESTION: Is it -- oh. It's --MR. GILBERT: I am surprised to hear that, inlight of the testimony that is in our brief and otherbriefs --QUESTION: You should go before the Senate --(Laughter.)MR. GILBERT: But, Your Honor --QUESTION: I actually found that when theyapproached a particular case about how you were going todecide in the future, both the senators -- in myexperience, since it only concerns me -- would not pressthe issue of how you would decide a particular case.QUESTION: I'm not talking about -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: And that's why -- a particular case.QUESTION: I was -- my reference was to aparticular issue. A particular issue.MR. GILBERT: Your Honor, cases are made up ofissues. And sometimes a case only has one issue. Issuesare important in and of themselves.QUESTION: Mr. Gilbert, do you think we shoulddraw any distinction, or whether it would be reasonablefor us to draw any distinction, between the application ofthe rule to the candidates themselves and the applicationof the rule to all of these ancillary individuals aroundthem -- their associates, their families? Let's assumethat we say that the rule passes muster with respect tothe candidate. What's the justification for muzzling thecandidate's spouse? I mean, I know, in fact, what --MR. GILBERT: Yeah.QUESTION: -- it is, because we figure, youknow, that's how you get the message out. But do we havea more difficult First Amendment hurdle?MR. GILBERT: Your Honor, I don't think so, notat all. I think it's really a misnomer to talk aboutmuzzling, which is what the petitioners have indicated.QUESTION: Let's say "limiting."MR. GILBERT: Well, it's not even that. Whatthe rule does is ask the judicial candidate to encourage th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC close family members not to effectively circumvent therule by announcing views that they might be aware of thatthe judicial candidate would support.QUESTION: But if the family member says, "Well,I'm going to tell anyway."MR. GILBERT: "I'm going to tell anyway" --there's no penalty.QUESTION: But the --MR. GILBERT: There's no --QUESTION: But there could be. Do I understandthat there would be an inquiry in that event as to whetherthe candidate had, indeed, encouraged the family member tobe quiet?MR. GILBERT: Your Honor, the standard is"knowingly permit." So, in other words, some -- thejudicial candidate would actually have to be the actorbehind those actions.QUESTION: All right, but I want to know, inpractical terms, what happens. The spouse makes astatement -- any one of the statements that have beenmentioned here, except as suggesting prejudgment of acase. The candidate stays mute. I presume that acomplaint would be filed against the candidate, and Ipresume the candidate would have to answer to thecommission as to whether the candidate had, indeed, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC knowingly encouraged this.MR. GILBERT: Your Honor, I'd assume a complaintwould not be filed under those circumstances.QUESTION: Why not? I mean --MR. GILBERT: Well, I don't --QUESTION: Are your opponents forgiving in yourstate?MR. GILBERT: Pardon me?(Laughter.)QUESTION: I mean, are opponents just forgivingof their opponents in your state?MR. GILBERT: Well, Your Honor, it's a verydifficult standard to satisfy, "knowingly permit."QUESTION: Well, maybe it's difficult tosatisfy. I'm just trying to get a sense of what theburden on the individuals involved is.MR. GILBERT: Well --QUESTION: And I assume that there could be acomplaint, simply based on the emphatic statement of thespouse. And my question is, does the candidate have toshow, in that event, that he did not knowingly encourage,or does the State have to show -- or the prosecutor orwhoever it is -- that he knowingly did encourage. What'sthe drill?MR. GILBERT: Yes, of course, the burden's on th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC the State. And not only is it on the State, but the Statewould have to show by clear and convincing evidence.QUESTION: Okay.MR. GILBERT: And the --QUESTION: But the candidate would have toMR. GILBERT: The -- possibly. The Lawyersanswer.Board --QUESTION: Why not?MR. GILBERT: -- sometimes doesn't investigatecomplaints where they don't have sufficient evidence tothink there's even a basis for the complaint.QUESTION: Well, would they have sufficientevidence in the event that a spouse made an emphaticstatement saying, "His view is," or "Her view is"?MR. GILBERT: Yeah, it's conceivable, YourHonor, but, again --QUESTION: Counsel, is that -- is that part ofthe canon part of the question in this case? I know it'spart of the canon. I didn't understand that it waspresented to us in the petition. What's your view?MR. GILBERT: Your Honor, it's kind of oblique. The focus is on Mr. Wersal's comments. And then there areother comments. And I think one of the justices mentioneda vagueness challenge. To the extent there's any th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC vagueness challenge at all that was discussed at theEighth Circuit and is part of the petition, it deals withthese third parties and the phase "knowingly permit." Andthe issue --QUESTION: Because we didn't have theinterpretation that was later adopted --MR. GILBERT: Right.QUESTION: -- by the Eighth Circuit. WhatCounsel says is that the new vagueness issues that he'sraising are a consequence of the opinion which yourSupreme Court has adopted, the Eighth Circuit's opinion.MR. GILBERT: Well, we -- Your Honor, you'recorrect. However, the Eighth Circuit opinion is theopinion that's being appealed here. And what thepetitioners have done is, they have refused to acknowledgethat narrow construction. And the fact of the matter isthat the Minnesota Supreme Court has now authoritativelyadopted that as a state court construction. But the factof the matter is, as well, that the Eighth Circuit alreadyopined on what the standard is, and that issue was notraised by them, in terms of vagueness. It simply was notraised.QUESTION: Was not raised where?MR. GILBERT: In the petition.QUESTION: In the petition. The petition is th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC whether it's, it unconstitutionally impinges on thefreedom of speech. And one of the principles of freedomof speech is that you cannot -- you cannot chill speech byhaving a prohibition that is not clear. I don't thinkthat this is a separate issue from the First Amendmentissue at all.MR. GILBERT: Well, they have not --QUESTION: We have lots of cases like that,about chilling speech because it's not clear what thecoverage of the prohibition is.MR. GILBERT: Your Honor, in their petition,though, they have not made those kinds of argumentsspecifically as to --QUESTION: They certainly did in the replybrief.MR. GILBERT: They have in the reply brief, butnot in the petition, which was the question that was askedpreviously. And as to vagueness, I should say that thiscourt has been really clear in the Broadrick v. Oklahomacase, for example, and the Colton v. Kentucky case, thatsometimes rules and statutes -- and, frankly, all thetime, rules and statutes are not conducive to mathematicalprecision, that there are going to be, as the Court hassaid, germs of uncertainty in how these laws are applied. And these laws are going to be applied based upon facts th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC and circumstances. And in this particular case, I thinkit's really significant that we don't have any facts andcircumstances as to what Mr. Wersal wants to say.QUESTION: Well, I think you could set up asystem where you get advisory opinions, but I don't knowthat we've ever allowed that to be done in the FirstAmendment area.MR. GILBERT: Oh --QUESTION: "Please may I say this?" You know,you submit what you want to say, and somebody tells you,"Yeah, okay. You can say that." That's certainlycontrary to our approach to the First Amendment.MR. GILBERT: Well, Your Honor, I don't -- YourHonor, first of all, I'm not a proponent of what -- ofthat. But in Letter Carriers, that was a criticalconsideration in upholding the Hatch Act againstconstitutional attack, because there was the ability ofpeople who had questions about the application of thestatute to actually go to an advisory board and get anopinion.Similarly here, both of the boards that areparties to this case do provide advisory opinions, andthey provide them on short notice, as well. So there isthat mechanism. I'm not suggesting it's a substitute, butit is a consideration in terms of if there is a close th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC question on an issue and someone wants some assurance asto how that particular situation would be interpreted,they can go to the boards and ask that question.QUESTION: Well, how soon can you get somethingfrom the board? If somebody wants to give a speech in apolitical campaign, I assume you can't get a -hourruling from the board.MR. GILBERT: Well, they actually do advisoryopinions over the phone, Your Honor, on very short order,and they could do it in a matter of hours or days,depending upon what the needs are.QUESTION: Mr. Gilbert, you brought out thatthis is not just a question of the candidate informing thevoter, that behind all of this is a litigant who's goingto be in a future case. How does it work in Minnesota? Suppose, to take an example that Mr. Bopp provided in hisbrief, the judge -- or the candidate is campaigning "Toughon Drunk Driving." And then I'm a drunk driver, and Icome before this judge, now elected, and I say, I want himto recuse, he said he's tough on drunk driving.MR. GILBERT: Are you asking in the --QUESTION: Would there be, under Minnesota law,a grounds to say, "I don't want that judge, because he'sannounced in the election that he's tough on drunkdriving"? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. GILBERT: No, I don't think so, Your Honor,not under those circumstances.One distinction I would like to make here -- oh,I'm sorry, Your Honor.QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. Gilbert. Mr. Bopp,you have three minutes remaining.REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF JAMES BOPP, JR.,ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERSMR. BOPP: Your Honor, I don't think this is amatter of mathematical precision. The State brief,itself, states two different formulations of the rule. They say, quote, "It is clear that the clause applies tostatements about how they would decide, quote, issues, endof quote, on pages and . And then they say it is,quote, "clear," end of quote, that the announced clauseapplies to statements about cases. And that is on pages and . The rule is not even clear in terms of theState's own formulation of its scope.Secondly, as the Joint Appendix indicates onpages through , announcing your views also includessimply answering questions on radio interviews or afterspeeches. It is hardly a remedy for a candidate to callup the board or the office for an oral opinion which isnot binding on them about whether or not they can answer aquestion on the radio. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC And, finally, it is undisputed that the peopleof Minnesota want an impartial judiciary. Governor ArnieCarlson, at Joint Appendix page , said -- who's aState's witness -- that people do not want judges who arepre-committed. Thus, candidates who would make excessivestatements, who would appear to be partial, risk defeat atthe polls in Minnesota. Thus, the people can be trustedto make the decisions that they, themselves, haveconferred upon themselves, as long as they have theinformation they need to make that choice. The FirstAmendment guarantees that they should receive thatinformation, which the Announce Clause both prohibits andchills. It is, therefore, unconstitutional.QUESTION: Thank you.CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: Thank you, Mr. Bopp. The case is submitted.(Whereupon, at : a.m., the case in theabove-entitled matter was submitted.) th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC A ABA :,,,,,, :, : : :, :, :, :,,,,,, : ABA's : : : : ability : : able :, : :, abortion :, about :, : :,, : : :,,,, : : :, : :, : : :, : :, : : :,, : : : : :, above-entitled : : abridge : absolutely : : : accept : acceptable : access : accordance : accorded : according : : account : acknowledge : acquitted : Act : actions : Activism : activist : actor : actual : : actually : : :, : : : added : adding : adjudication : adopt : : adopted : : : : : :, adoption : advance : : advice : advisory : :,, : advocated : after :, : :, :, : again : : :, : : : :, :, : against : : : : : ago : : : agree :, : : : : : al :, : ALAN : : : allege : allow : : allowed : : : : allows : : along : already : : : : : alternative : Amendment :, :,, : : :,,, : :, :,, :, : : : :,,,, : :, : : :, :, : : : :, : amounts : ancillary : announce :,, :,, :, : : :, : : : :,,, : announced : : : announces : announcing : : : : : another : : answer : : : : : : : : answered : answering : answers : anybody : anything : : : :, : anyway :, apologize : : appealed : appear : : : : : : :, :,, : : APPEARANCES : appears :, appendix :, : : : : : : : applicable : application : : : :, : applied : : :, applies : : : : :, apply : : : appointed : approach : approached : appropriate :, : : appropriated : area : arguing : argument : :,, :, :, : : : : : : arguments : : arises : Arnie : around : : article : asked : : asking : aspect : aspects : assert : assigned : associates : association :, : Association's : assume : : :, : : : :, : assumes : assuming : : assumption : assurance : attack : : attempt : August : authoritative : : : authoritatively : authorities : authority :,, : aware : : : away : : a.m : : : B back : : : :, bad : balance : : bar : : :, : based : : : basis : before : : : : : : :, : : : : : : : : : : : : : : befuddled : beginning : behalf :, :,, : : : behave : behind : : being : : :, : :, : : :, : believe : : : : : : : : : : : below : bench :,, : : : better : : between : : : : :, : : beyond : bias : big : th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC binding : : : binds : blurry : board : :, : :, : Carlson : Carriers : carry : case : : : : :,, : :, : boards : : : books : Bopp : :, :,,, :,, :,, :,,,,, :, :, :, :,, :,, : :,,,,, :, :,,, :,,,,,, : :,,,,, :,, : :,,,, :,,, :,, :,,, :,, :,,, :, :,,, : :,,,,, :,, :, : : :,, : both : : : : : : : Brennen : Breyer : brief :, : : :,, : : : : :, : : briefs : : : : : : bright : : broader : Broadrick : brought : burden : burden's : C C : : call :, : came : : campaign : : : : : campaigning : campaigns : : candidate : : : : : :,, : : :, :, : : :, :,, : : :,, :,, : : :, :, :,,,,,, : : :, : candidates : :, :, : : : : : :, : : : : candidate's : : : : canon :,,,,, :,,, :, :, :,,, : : :,, :, : : :,, :, :,, : :,, : : : : :, : : :,, : : :, :, : : :, :, : : : cases : : :, :,,, : : :, :, : : : :,,, : : : : : : : categorically :, cert : : certain : :, certainly : : : : certiorari : cetera : challenge : : : challenger :,,,, change : : changed : changes : changing : character : Chief :, : :, : : : : chill : chilling : chills : : choice : : Circuit : :,, :,, : : :, : : : : : :, : : :,, : Circuit's : : circumstances : : :, : circumvent : citation :, civil :, claim : clarification :, clarify : classic : clause :,,, :,,, : : : :, : :, : :,, : :, : code : Colton : come : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : comes : : : : : comment : :, commenting :, : comments : :, commission : commit :,,,,, :, :,, :,,,,,,, :, : : : commitment : : : : commitments : common : company : compelling : : : competing : : complaint : : :, : complaints : complete : concede : conceivable : concern : concerned : concerning : concerns : conclude : concludes : conducive : conduct : conferred : confirmation : : conflicting : : : conform : consequence : consequences : consideration :, considerations : considered : : consistent : : consistently : : constitutes : : constitution : :, constitutional : : : : : : : : constitutionality : : constructing : construction :, : :,, :,, :, constructionist : constructions :, construed : : consumer : contain : contains : : : :, :,, : : :,,, :, clear : : : : :, : :,, :,, canons : : : care : close : : closed : th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC contender : context : contradiction : contrary : : controversial : controversies : convicted : convincing : correct : :, : :, : counsel : : : course : : court :, :,, : :, : : :, :, : : : : :, :,, : : :,, : : :, :, : : :, : :, courts : : Court's : : coverage : covers : criminal : :,,,, critical : criticism : : criticize : : : : : criticized : : current : : : : : : : D D : damages : dance : date : day : days : deal :, deals : dealt : death : :,, :,, : : decide :,, : : :, : :, : : : :, : : :, : deciding : : decision : :, :,, : : :, :, : : decisions : : :, : : : : decisis : :,,, :, :,, : : declaring : declined : defeat : defendant : definitive : degree : demonstrated : denied : depart : depending : describe : described : designed : despite : detail : determine : dichotomy : dictionary : differ : difference : : : : different : : :, : : : : : : : : differs : difficult : : : :, director : : disable : disagree : discipline : :, disciplined : discuss : : : : : : : discussed : : discussing : : discussion : :, :, : discussions : : disputed : disqualification : : disqualified : dissenting : distinction : :,,,,, : : :, : district : doctrine : : : : : done : : : : doubts : :, down : : : : :, : draw :,,, :, drawing : : Dred : drill : driver : driving :,, drunk :,,, dual : due : : : : : : duties : duty : dynamics : D.C : E E : :, easy : effect : : effectively : effort : Eighth : :, :,, :, :, : : : : : :,, : : :,,, : either : : : elect : :, elected : : : :, : :, : : : : election :, :, :, :, : : :, :, : elections :, : : : :, electorate : :, : emphatic : : enacts : encompassed : encourage : :, encouraged : : : encourages : end : :, :, enforcement : enough : ensuring : entirety : entitled : equally : equivalent :, ESQ :, :,, essentially : et :, : : ethical : :, :, ethics : evaluating : even : : : : : : :, : : : : event : : : ever : : every : : everybody : everyone : evidence : : :,, evolved : exactly : example : : : : : : : : : : : examples :, : : : except : exceptions : excessive : th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC excluded : executive : : exercise : experience : express : expressed :, extent : : : : : extra : extremely : F fact : : : : : : : :, facts : : : : fair : faith : : faithful : fall : fallacy : familiar : families : family : :,, far : : favor : federal : :, : : : : figure : filed : : : : finally : : find : : : fine : : : : : first :, :,, : : : :, : : : : : :, :, : : : : :,, : fit :, fluff :, focus : follow : : following : forbid : forbids : forgiving :, formulation : formulations : : : : : forth : : found : Fourth :,,, : :, : :,,,, : : : :, :, frankly : : fraud : free : : freedom :, fringe : from :, : : :, : : :, : : : :, : : : : :,, : : : : :,, : : : : : : : :, frontal : functional :, funds : future : : : : : :, :, : : : :,, : : : : fuzzy :, : : F.d : G G : game : gave :, : general :, : : : Gentile : germs : getting : Gilbert : : :,,, : : :,,, :,,, :,, :,, :, : :,, :,,, :,, : :,,, :, :, :,, :,, :, :,,, :,,, :, :, :, :,,, : :,,, :,, :,,, :, :,,,, :,, :,, :, :,, : : give : given : gives : glosses : go : : : : :, : : : : goes : : : going : : :, :, :, : :, : : :, : :, : :, :, : gone : good : : : goodness : governmental : Governor : granted : greater : : grounds : guarantees : H hand : happen :,, : happened : : happens :, : : hard : : hardly : Hatch : Haute : having : : hear : : :, heard :, hearing : : : held : : her : : herself : him : : : himself : Honor :, :, :, : : :, :, : : : : : : :, : :, :, : :, :, :,, :, : :, : :,,, :, : : :, :, :, :, : :, :, : : :, : :,, hopelessly : hours : hurdle : hypothetical : :, hypothetically : I idea : : : identical : : illustrate : impartial : impartiality : : impartially : impermissible : impinges : implication :, imply : : : :, :, : :, : implying : : : : : : important : impose :,, imposed : impossible :, imprecise : impression : inapplicable : include : included : includes : including : th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC incorporated : incorporation : : : : incumbent : :,,, indeed : : : :, Indiana : indicated : : : indicates : : indication : indistinguishable : individual : individually : individuals : : information : : :, informed : : informing : inquiry : insofar : instance : : : instead : : insult : integrity :, : :, : intended : interest :, :,, :, :,, interests : :, : interpret : : interpretation :, : : : : interpretations : : interpreted :, : : : interpreting : : interpretive : interviews : investigate : involved : : : involving : issue : : : : : : :, : : :, : : :, :, :,, :, :, : issues : : :, : : :, judges :, :, :,, : :,,, : : :,, : : : : : : : :, : judge's : : : judicial : : : : : : : : :,,, : :, :,, : : : : :, : : :, : : :, judiciary : : : : : : July : June : jurisdiction : jurisprudence : just : : : : : : : :, : : : : : :, : Justice :,, : :, : : : : justices : Justice's : : justification : justify : K Kelly : : Kennedy : Kentucky : kind : : : : : least : :, leeway : legal : : legislative : less : : let : : : Letter : letting : let's :, : : : : : leveled : liberal : life : light : like : : : : : : : : : : : : : likely : : :, : : :, limit : limitation : limited :, : : : limiting : limits : line : : : : :,, : literature : litigant : : litigants : :, : litigate : long : : : look : : :, : :, : : : : : :, : : : kinds : know : : : : : : looks : : lot : : lots : : :, : :,, :, : : : : : : :, : : :, M made : : : : : : : : : knowing : knowingly : :,,, : known : : : : :, Maintain : majority : make : : : : : :, : :, : : :, : : : knows : J L JAMES : :, : : January : : Johnson : Joint : : : : : JR : :, : : judge :, :, : :, : : : :,,, : :,, :, : : : :,,,,, : : :,, :,, :,, : :, :,,, : lack : language : : : : last : : : later : : Laughter : : : : : law : :, : : : : : : : : : : laws :, lawyer : : Lawyers : : : : : : :, : : : : :,, makes : : : making :, : : : : :, : : : : : many : March : Marcia : material : mathematical : : matter : :, : : : matters : : : may : : :, :, :, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC : : : : maybe : :, : mean : :, : : : :,,, : : : : :, meaning : : meaningless : means :, : : :,, :,, : meant : mechanism :, : member :, members : : mentioned : : message : might : : : : :, : mind : :, : minded : Minnesota :, :, : : : :,,,, :,, : : : :, :,, :, : :,, :, : : :,,, :, : : : : : :, :, Minnesota's : : : minute : minutes : misnomer : misspoke : : mistake : : moment : more : : : : : : : : : : : most : : : : much : must : muster : mute : muzzling :, myself :, N N :, : namely : narrow : : : : narrowed : narrowest :, narrowing : narrowly : neat : necessarily : necessary : : : need : : needs : never : new : : next : : Ninth : nothing : notice : number : : numerous : O O : : oath : : object : objection : obligation : oblique : obviously : occur : odd : off :, offense : office : : : :, : : : : : : officials : often : oh : : : : okay : :, :, : : : : : Oklahoma : once : : : one :, : :, : : : : : : : : : : :,, : : : : : ones : one's : only : :, : : : : :, : : : : : : open :, opined : opinion :, : :, : : : :, : : : : : : :,,, :, :, : : opinions : : : : : :, : opponent : :, : opponents :,, opportunity : : oral : :, : : : order :, : : : : : ordered : other : : : : :, : : : :, : : : : : : : otherwise : ought : : : out : : : : :,, : : : : : outcome : outside : over : : : : overturn :, : : : : own : : O'Connor : P P : page : :,, :, : : :, : : pages : :, :,, : : :,, paragraph : parallel : Pardon : part : : :,, : partial : partiality : particular : :, : : :, :, : : : : : :,, :,, : : particularly : parties : : : Party : : passes : past :,,, : : Paul : pay : penalty : :,, :,, : : : pending :, :, :, : : :, : people : : : : : :,, perception : : perfectly :, performance : perhaps : : : periodic : permissible : : permit : : : : permitted : person : : persuaded : : petition : :,, : : : :,, :, petitioner : : petitioners :, :, : : : phase : th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC philosophy : : : : : : :, : phone : place : : plague : plain : : play : please : : : plebiscite : pledge :, :, :, :, :,, : :, : : : : Pledges : :, : pledging : : point : : : : :, political : : polls : popular : portions : posed : position : :, : : : : : : possibly : post : practical : : precedent : precisely : precision : : predisposition : : prejudge : prejudged : : prejudgment : present : presented : press : presumably : : presume : :, Pretty : prevent : : prevents : previously : : pre-committed : pre-election : principles : prior : : : : : :, private : probably : :,, problem : : : problems : : procedural : process : : : : : Professional : proffered : prohibit :,, : :, prohibited : : :, : : : :, : : prohibition :, prohibits :,, : : : : : : : :, :,,,,, :, :, :,, :, :,, :,, :, : promise :, : :,, : questions : : : : : quiet : quite : : quote :,,,, :,,,, quoted : quotes :, : R R : radio :, raised :,, raising : ramifications : rather : read : : reading : :, : real : really : : : : realm : : reason : reasonable : REBUTTAL : : receive : record : : : recusal : : recuse : recused : reelection : refer : : reference : : referred : referring : refused : regard : : regarding : REHNQUIST : : remaining : remarked : remarks : remedy : removal : rendered : repeal : reply :, represent : Republican : : requisite : reserve : respect : : : : : Respondents : : : response : : Responsibility : restore : :,,, : : : : Promises : :, : promising : : : proper : properly : : : proponent : proposals : propose : proposed : proposition : : proscribable :, prosecutor : protect : : protected : : : protective : protects : : : provide : : :, provided : : providing : provision : : : : : provisions : : proviso : public : : : : :, publicly : : punitive : purposes : pursuing : put : :, Q qualifications : question : :,, :,, : :,,,,,, :,, :,, :, :,,,, : :,,,,, :,, :,, :,,,,,,, :,,,, :,,,, :,,,,, :,,,,, : :, :,,, :, : :,,, :,,, :,,,, :,,,, :,,,, :,, :,, :,,,, :,,,, :, :,,, :,,, :,,, :,,, :, :,,, :,,,,, : :,, :,,,, :,,, :, :,, :,,, :,,,, : : :,,,,, :,, :, :,,, :,,, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC restraint : restraints : restricted : :, : restriction : : : : restrictions : restrictive : restricts : resulting : results :, : retention : reveal : : review : : rid : right :, : : : : : : :,,,, : :, :, : : : : : rights : :, : risk : role : :, rule :, : : :,,, :,, :, :,, :, :, : :,,,,, : : :,,,,,,, : :,, :,, : : : :,,,,,,, : :,,, : :, rules : : : : : :, ruling : : run : running : : : : : S S : : same : :, : : : :, : : : : : sanction :,,,, sanctioned :, satisfy :, saw : saying : : : : : : : : :,, : :,, : : says : : : : :, :, :, : : :, :,, : : : scope : : : Scott : second : : : Secondly : see : : : : seek : seeking : seem : : seems : : : : selects : Senate : : :, senators : sense :, : : sentence : : separate : set : seven : several : severely : short : : show :, : sides : significant : : :,, : silent : similar : Similarly : simply : : : : : : : since : : sir : sitting :, :,,,,, :, : : :, : : : : situation :, : : situations : some :, : : : somebody : : : somehow : : someone : : : something : : : : sometimes : : : soon : sorry : : : : : sort : sorts : sought : sounds : source : speak : specific : : : :, : specifically : : : speech : :,, : : : : : : :,,, : speeches :, : : sponte : spouse : : : : spouts : St : standard : :, : : : Standards : : standing : stare : :,,, :, :,, : : started : : state : : :, : :, :, : :, : : :,,, :, :,, :,,, :,, :,, : : stated : statement : : : : : : : : : : : statements :, : : :, : : : :, : states :, : :, : : State's : : : : stating : : statues : statute : : statutes :, statutory : stay : stays : step : still : : strict : : stricter : strike : strong : struck : sua : subject : : :, subjected : submit : : : submitted :, submitting : substantive :, : substitute : sudden : sufficient :, suggest : suggested : : : suggesting : : suit : support : supporters : suppose : :, :, : : supposing :, suppressed : supreme :, : : : : : : :,,, : : : :, :, : :, sure : surprised : :, survive : suspect : system : : : : T T :, take : :,, : : : th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC : : : taken : takes : talk : : talked : talking :, : :, : : : : technical : : tell : :, :, telling : : tells : temperament :, :, terms : : : : : : : : Terre : test : testimony : Thank : : :, their :, : :, : : themselves : :, :, then-director : thing : : : : things : : : think : : : :,, : : :,, : :,,, : :, :, :,, :, : :, : :, : : : :, : : : :, : :,, : : : :, :, thinks : third : : thoroughly : though : : thought : :, : : :,, : three :, : through : : : time : : : : : together :, told : : topic : total : totally : tough :,, tried : tries : trust : trusted : try :, : : : trying :,,, : :,, : : Tuesday : turn : turned :,, two : :,, :, : : : type : U uncertainty : unconstitutional : : : : : : : : unconstitutionally : : under : : :,, :, :, : : : : : :,,,,,, : : : : :,, : : : : understand : : : : :, :, : : : understanding : understood : undisputed : Unfortunately : United :, upholding : urgent : use : : : used :, uses : usual : V v : :, vacate :, : vague : : : vagueness :, : :,, : valid : vehicle : Verna : : versus : : very : : : : : : : :, :, : : : : : : vetting : view : : :, :,, : : : : : : : : : : :,, viewed : views :, : :,, :, : : : violate : : violated : : violation : : : :,, volume : vote :, : : : :, : : :,,, voter : voters :, want : : : : : : : : :, :, wants : : :, Washington : way : : : :, : : : ways : : weigh : weighed : welfare : well : :, : : :, : :, : : : : : :,,, : : : : :,, : :, : : :, : :, :, :,,, : :, : :, :, : : : : : : : :, :, : :, : : :, :, went : were : :,, : : : :, Wersal : : :, :, : : :,, : Wersal's : we'll : : we're : : : : :, we've : : : Whereabouts : while :, :, : : : : : : whole : wins :, : wish : witness : won :, word : : : : words : : : :, : work : : worse : worst :, wouldn't : : : : : : : write : written : wrong : :,,, : : : : : : : wrongly : wrote : x :, X Y W Yeah : : : : : th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC years : : - : : : : : : : : : : -hour : : : : : :, :, : : : : : : : :, : : : : th : : : : :, : : : :, : :, (b) : a : : a : : a : : :, : :, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC 