 IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XSTATE FARM MUTUAL AUTOMOBILE :INSURANCE COMPANY, Petitioner : :v. : No. -INEZ PREECE CAMPBELL AND MATTHEW C. BARNECK, SPECIAL ADMINISTRATOR AND PERSONAL REPRESENTATIVE OF THE ESTATE OF CURTIS B. CAMPBELL. :::::- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XWashington, D.C.Wednesday, December , The above-entitled matter came on for oral argument before the Supreme Court of the United States at: a.m.APPEARANCES:SHEILA L. BIRNBAUM, ESQ., New York, New York; on behalf ofthe Petitioner.LAURENCE H. TRIBE, ESQ., Cambridge, Massachusetts; onbehalf of the Respondents. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC C O N T E N T SORAL ARGUMENT OF SHEILA L. BIRNBAUM, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioners ORAL ARGUMENT OFLAURENCE H. TRIBE, ESQ.On behalf of the Respondent REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OFSHEILA L. BIRNBAUM, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioners PAGE th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC P R O C E E D I N G S(: a.m.)JUSTICE STEVENS: We'll hear argument in Number-, State Farm Mutual v. Campbell and others.Ms. Birnbaum, you may proceed whenever you'reready.ORAL ARGUMENT OF SHEILA L. BIRNBAUMON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERSMS. BIRNBAUM: Thank you, Justice Stevens, andmay it please the Court:This case arose from a single failure by StateFarm to settle a third party automobile case in the Stateof Utah within the policy limits of its insured in Utah.There was evidence in the record, uncontrovertedevidence, that this was the only case in the State of Utah where a policyholder of State Farm had been subject topotentially a threat of execution on a judgment. All ofthe other judgments that were in excess of policy limits,which there were seven of in the State of Utah over a -year period, including both before and afterMr. Campbell's case --QUESTION: Ms. Birnbaum, may I ask you aquestion about the record?MS. BIRNBAUM: Yes, Your Honor.QUESTION: As I understand the other side, what th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC is at issue is a policy that your company had over theyears, I forget the name of it, BP and something or other,and I looked for that policy in the record, and I couldn'tfind it. Is it in the record? Is there a written --MS. BIRNBAUM: It's in the lodging, Your Honor.QUESTION: It's a lodging?MS. BIRNBAUM: It's at to in thelodging, and if you look at the B, so-called PP&R -- it'scalled the Performance Planning and Review Manual -- it isa guide. It is a personnel evaluation guide on how toevaluate personnel, and it applies to all, all thepersonnel of State Farm, all thousands of personnel, andwhat the plaintiff did was to cherry-pick from this longmanual which is in the lodging, as I said, one or two points that didn't even apply to claims adjustors or claims representatives, but to supervisors, to try tocreate this pervasive nationwide scheme that there was anattempt by State Farm over years to lessen the claimsthat they were paying and not pay the fair value ofclaims.QUESTION: Nonetheless, if the jury found such apolicy, that there was a policy as alleged by theplaintiff, that's not -- we have to take that as a given,don't we, Ms. Birnbaum?MS. BIRNBAUM: You may have to take that as a th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC given, Your Honor, but the question becomes, how is thatpolicy related in any way to this decision to try a casein the State of Utah, and how can State Farm be punishedfor its nationwide conduct, when all this case was about,and should have been about --QUESTION: Do you say the evidence of conduct inother jurisdictions should have been excluded, it wasinadmissible?MS. BIRNBAUM: Your Honor, some evidence couldhave come in under this Court's determination in BMW toshow reprehensibility, but evidence that could have comein to show reprehensibility had to be comparable to theconduct that was at stake here.QUESTION: Well, what do you say to the argumenton the other side that the instances of conduct involving facts having nothing to do with settlement within policylimits, all came in, in effect as rebuttal, as admissiblerebuttal evidence in response to issues that State Farmraised?MS. BIRNBAUM: Your Honor, the record is repletein our opening brief. We cite to the many times all ofthis evidence came in on direct, of the plaintiff'sexperts and the plaintiff's so-called fact experts. That's a makeshift argument. This didn't just come in. This was a and month trial on -- and most of that trial th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC was geared to this nationwide scheme.And more importantly, if you look at what theUtah Supreme Court said in reinstating this incrediblyexcessive verdict, to , when you look at that, it isvery clear that the Utah Supreme Court was looking at anational scheme.QUESTION: Well, yes, that may be. I mean, Ithink there's no question it was looking at a nationalscheme. The question is whether our gripe, or your gripeis with the Utah Supreme Court or with the case as it wastried, and I take it your answer to my question is, therewas evidence going to practices having nothing to do withsettlement within policy limits that did come in withoutany relationship to rebuttal at all.MS. BIRNBAUM: That's exactly right, Your Honor. QUESTION: Okay.MS. BIRNBAUM: And it's all cited in our brief,in our opening brief, many, many times.QUESTION: And why doesn't --QUESTION: And were objections made each time?MS. BIRNBAUM: Your Honor, there was not,because that wasn't necessary in the State of Utah. If alitigant objects in limine to the introduction of thisevidence, which was done --QUESTION: That was done. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MS. BIRNBAUM: That was many times done, andYour Honor, when this case came down with the case of BMWv. Gore, there was an oral argument made that that kind ofevidence was unconstitutional under Gore, because it wasdissimilar and extraterritorial.QUESTION: Ms. Birnbaum, why doesn't it go toreprehensibility if it were true that this failure tosettle claims that were quite valid was simply part of anationwide pattern to pay out less than was due, not justin this context but in every context? Why doesn't that goto reprehensibility?MS. BIRNBAUM: Because, Your Honor, if we are --if we permit litigants to create this overriding schemethat you are engaged in fraud in all your businesspractices, and that you can be punished for that, it is as if in Gore --QUESTION: Well, I think it does go toreprehensibility if we're giving some kind of an ethicalreport card to State Farm.MS. BIRNBAUM: Your Honor --QUESTION: It does not go to reprehensibility, Iwould think would be your point, as to the harm sufferedby this plaintiff.MS. BIRNBAUM: Absolutely.QUESTION: And that seems to me the difference. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MS. BIRNBAUM: Absolutely. Your Honor --QUESTION: You say it would go toreprehensibility, and it would go to the harm suffered bythis plaintiff, if they introduced evidence of doing thesame thing to other plaintiffs in other States, the samething to other plaintiffs. How does that go to the harmto this plaintiff?MS. BIRNBAUM: Well, Your Honor --QUESTION: You know, I don't understand how youcan possibly say you cannot introduce evidence from otherStates, and at the same time say, unless it's introducedto show reprehensibility.Once you say you're allowed to introduce it forreprehensibility, I don't know why all of this doesn't goto show that State Farm is more reprehensible. MS. BIRNBAUM: Your Honor, because in Gore v.BMW this Court, the majority of this Court held that youcan introduce on the reprehensibility question similarconduct that compares to the conduct that occurred to theparticular plaintiff in the underlying case.QUESTION: Of course, that's all that wasoffered in Gore, of course.MS. BIRNBAUM: But that -- but Your Honor, itwould be like --QUESTION: So we didn't really have to reach th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC your question in that case.MS. BIRNBAUM: Your Honor, but it would be likein Gore saying that there was a plan to maximize profits,and that not only could you introduce and consider therepair issues that occurred in Gore, but you could alsoshow that there was discrimination against minoritycustomers, that there was --QUESTION: But the answer is that all that doesgo to reprehensibility. It does. A person who commitsthis conduct and is part of a company that engages in allkinds of bad action is a person who is somewhat morereprehensible than if you worked for a company thatdoesn't engage in all this bad action, but I thought yourpoint was that that's true, but unless you draw a linelike the line that was drawn in Gore, you are inviting a jury to punish the company for all kinds of things thattruly do make them more reprehensible, but withoutstandards, without a legislature telling them howreprehensible, et cetera.MS. BIRNBAUM: I couldn't have said it anybetter, Your Honor.(Laughter.)QUESTION: Well then, maybe -- maybe you cantell me how one defines reprehensibility so that it onlyincludes what you call the same acts. Maybe you can tell th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC me. That's what gives me the trauma, and you say notdifferent acts. What is different acts? It has to besomething --MS. BIRNBAUM: Well, I think --QUESTION: -- other than a policyholder who --you know, who passed five, six cars on the highway?MS. BIRNBAUM: No. No, you have --QUESTION: Why isn't cheating all policyholdersin all contexts, paying less than they're entitled to, whyisn't that similar to what happened here?MS. BIRNBAUM: Because it had nothing to do withwhat happened here, and I'd like to explain to you. Maybeit's a little -- but what happens in third party and firstparty cases, in this particular case there was a decisionto go to trial. Why was that decision made to go to trial? Because at least the lawyers for State Farm insome of the claims represented felt this was a noliability case. Mr. and Mrs. Campbell said that they werenot liable, that they didn't cause this accident. Thiswasn't a no-brainer. There was evidence. The jurydecided on other evidence.But when you bring into this equation yearsof conduct that, some of it that is lawful, this wasn'tonly fraudulent conduct. This jury heard and wasinstructed -- not instructed, but in the summation there th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC was references to the payment of non-OEM, thespecification of non-OEM parts, was perfectly legal inalmost every jurisdiction.QUESTION: How would you formulate the standardthat you want us to adopt, the standard which confines thereprehensibility evidence to what you deem to beappropriate in a case such as this?MS. BIRNBAUM: I think --QUESTION: What rule do we have?MS. BIRNBAUM: I think, Your Honor, the properreprehensibility inquiry is limited to an examination of adefendant's specific misconduct toward the plaintiff andsimilar conduct by the defendant toward others, but it hasto be similar. This was not similar conduct requiring --QUESTION: And here you're not drawing a line --one of the lines was similar conduct and in the sameState, but in the automobile, automobiles, we're a verymobile society, so I don't think -- well, perhaps you are,but you said this is, we draw a line around Utah, butsuppose the driver who was insured by State Farm was fromCalifornia, or from New York, where you get more thanseven incidents out of years?MS. BIRNBAUM: But the question here was, wasthere a bad faith failure to settle? That is the conduct. If there was evidence of bad faith failure to settle in th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC other States, that could come in on reprehensibility. That could inform the jury in some way, and under BMW v.Gore, you said that that kind of conduct, similar conductin BMW was identical conduct.QUESTION: Well then, then you have no concernwith punishing for acts that took place out of State?MS. BIRNBAUM: No, I --QUESTION: You're abandoning that, or --MS. BIRNBAUM: We have not gotten to the ratioof the comparable penalties questions under BMW. We werejust focusing on reprehensibility.QUESTION: What is similar conduct in BMW, togive some feel for what you mean by similar conduct?MS. BIRNBAUM: Exactly what the Court --QUESTION: Selling cars with scratches on them, or is it selling -- what about, you sell cars withdefective, knowingly, with defective clutches? Would thatbe similar?MS. BIRNBAUM: No, it would not.QUESTION: It would -- it has to be cars withscratches, it has to be the same thing?MS. BIRNBAUM: It's the conduct --QUESTION: Wow.MS. BIRNBAUM: It was the conduct that occurredin that case. In that case there was a failure to tell th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC consumers --QUESTION: The car had a scratch.MS. BIRNBAUM: -- that the car had a --QUESTION: So the only cases that are relevantare other cases where BMW pawned off cars that hadscratches? It could pawn off all sorts of other defects,but not scratches?MS. BIRNBAUM: If you open it up to all kinds ofother defects, then you're opening it up --QUESTION: You lose, right.MS. BIRNBAUM: You're opening it up --(Laughter.)MS. BIRNBAUM: -- to the kind of thing that canhappen here, especially if it gets punished. In this casethere was a million dollars' worth of compensatory damages, a substantial number, and this verdict was times that. That could only be considered because it waspunishing all of this extraterritorial, dissimilar, and inmany instances, lawful conduct.QUESTION: I thought we had just gotten off theextraterritorial -- where you said it wouldn't make anydifference if the insured was from California or fromUtah.MS. BIRNBAUM: That's exactly right, Your Honor.The really important thing here is that the Utah th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Supreme Court --QUESTION: Excuse me. I don't understand wherewe are on the out of State. You say you're going to getto that under another --MS. BIRNBAUM: Yes.QUESTION: -- prong?MS. BIRNBAUM: Under ratio and comparablepenalties, Your Honor. Because this Court has said thatyou could introduce extraterritorial conduct, similar, past conduct with regard to reprehensibility, but thereare three guideposts in Gore, and the Utah Supreme Courtignored the other two guideposts. Of course, when it cameto the ratio guidepost, this Court has repeatedly saidthere has to be a reasonable relationship, reasonableratio between the penalty, the punishment, and the harm to the plaintiff: not the harm to others, not the harm to thecommunity at large, not the harm to all of the consumersthat dealt with State Farm, as the Utah Supreme Court heldand found, and --QUESTION: So how do we measure that? How do wemeasure the ratio, the reasonable relationship of thepenalty?MS. BIRNBAUM: Here, Your Honor, there was acompensatory damage award of a million dollars. That wasa substantial compensatory award. The ratio that would be th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC reasonable with regard to a million dollars could not be to .QUESTION: Except that, you know, we say thatyou can't take into account harm to others, but you cantake into account harm to others so long as that is doneunder the rubric of reprehensibility.MS. BIRNBAUM: As long --QUESTION: If you've done the same thing toother people, you can be punished more. Now, you may finda significant difference between punishing you for whatyou did to the other people, and punishing you more forwhat you did to this person, because it is rendered morereprehensible because of what you did to other people, butI don't see a whole lot of difference between the two.MS. BIRNBAUM: But even if there is a ratio, what reprehensibility does is put you on the continuum ofblameworthiness, and this Court has said previously that to is close to the line. In TXO it permitted to because economic damages was small, and you looked atpotential harm as well as the realized harm to thelitigant there.Here, he had substantial compensatory damages. In addition, if you look at the third guidepost in Gore,you have comparable penalties and sanctions for comparableconduct. That's how that is defined. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC What was the conduct here? It was a failure tosettle within policy limits. It wasn't intentional tort;it was --QUESTION: May I just suggest an analogy? This,in a way this reminds me of the argument we heard lastweek -- maybe it was last session -- about the threestrikes law in California; that you're not necessarilypunished for the other things you did, but you can takeinto account your prior crimes even in other States inorder to justify a more severe penalty for what you'vedone here. And isn't it -- part of the argument the otherside makes is that this is a very large company, and theboard of directors doesn't hear about a $-millionpunitive damage award down in Texas, and therefore you'vegot to at least give them enough money so the board of directors will know they ought to take corrective steps.MS. BIRNBAUM: Could I just first answer this$ million punitive damage award, because I think thatreally shows where the Utah Supreme Court is going. Therewas no judgment. This had nothing to do with bad faithfailure to settle. It had to do with an uninsuredmotorist coverage. The case was settled for pennies onthe dollar. There was no --QUESTION: cents?(Laughter.) th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MS. BIRNBAUM: Pennies. Pennies. UnfortunatelyI couldn't put into evidence the amount because there as aconfidentiality agreement, but that case had nothing to dowith the kind of conduct here. You cannot --QUESTION: No, but I suppose to the extent it'srelevant it is, that you need an awfully big award againstan awfully big company, because you want the companyitself to take corrective steps, and if this $ millionaward isn't even called to the attention of the board ofdirectors, maybe that says you needed a larger award than would otherwise be justified.MS. BIRNBAUM: Your Honor, I think if you lookat this, this was a jury award that was never made into ajudgment. Why would anybody -- it was settled. It was arunaway verdict in a place. Why would anybody go to the board of directors with something like that?QUESTION: Okay, let's assume the $ millionhad never happened.MS. BIRNBAUM: Okay.QUESTION: The argument as made is, this is acompany with a surplus in, literally measured in thebillions. You've got to have a really big judgment to gettheir attention. What's your response?MS. BIRNBAUM: The answer to that is, first ofall, surplus was the wrong number to ever focus on. That th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC money is accounted for, and there are some very goodbriefs, amicus briefs that talk about surplus.There was never a profit from underwriting inthis particular instance, and the fact that the companyhas surpluses, that's to pay out claims.QUESTION: That's just saying how rich they are. I mean, the question -- whether they're rich or not, theyseem quite rich, but maybe they're not, but the harm herewas what? That is he had a $, policy.MS. BIRNBAUM: Yes.QUESTION: And he for a period of time theclient thought that he'd have to pay $, out of hisown pocket, for how long a period of time?MS. BIRNBAUM: There is a question in therecord. The trial court said that it was for a short period of time. The Utah Supreme Court said it was for months.QUESTION: All right, so for months he'sfrightened that he'll have to pay $, out of his ownpocket, all right. Now, because of that fright, he wasgiven a million dollars in compensation and another $million -- I don't know, how much went to him? How muchwent to the lawyers?MS. BIRNBAUM: Well, Your Honor, there would be percent that would go to the lawyers -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: So --MS. BIRNBAUM: -- and under the agreement the --QUESTION: $ million goes to the lawyers.MS. BIRNBAUM: Right.QUESTION: And how much went to him? How muchwent to him?MS. BIRNBAUM: percent of the award was --QUESTION: All right, so $ million went tohim, and where did the rest go?MS. BIRNBAUM: It went to the two otherplaintiffs in the original case.QUESTION: Okay. Now, that's all necessary forthe follow -- or at least not necessary, reasonable forthe following reason. This is a very big company, andunless you really make them pay they might do this again, or if not this, something equally bad, okay?Now, what's your response?MS. BIRNBAUM: The response to that, Your Honor,is there's nothing in this record -- first of all, thatkind of ratio is totally unreasonable and out ofproportion to the harm to the plaintiff.QUESTION: That's not my question. My questionis, there is a claim. Even if it's out of proportion tothe harm, we've got to wake these people up at State Farm. Now, they get wakened up by this million judgment, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC believe me, and --MS. BIRNBAUM: Yes. There's no question ofthat.QUESTION: All right. Now -- all right. Now,what's your response to that, that's a very desirable andnecessary thing, or they might do it again?MS. BIRNBAUM: It's not a necessary thing onthis record, it is not a desirable thing. There was no --QUESTION: Because?MS. BIRNBAUM: There was no evidence in thisrecord that there was any other case in which there hadbeen a failure to settle within policy limits thatjeopardized an insuree --QUESTION: All right, suppose there had been cases in which other people were frightened of having to pay $, for a period of months. Then, in youropinion, would it have been justified to enter thisjudgment of $ million to wake them up? Indeed, at month intervals they kept doing this over and over.MS. BIRNBAUM: Your Honor, if that happened,then each one of those plaintiffs could have a bad faithfailure to settle claim in which they could have gottenpunitive damages in their own States. There is no -- thiswhole concept that this is a clandestine scheme, every --QUESTION: Maybe no amount of money will th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC suffice. Maybe we have to send them to jail.MS. BIRNBAUM: Well, that's what --(Laughter.)MS. BIRNBAUM: That's what the Supreme Court ofUtah said, even though it's not in their statute. Can youimagine, on fair notice, when we talked about fair notice,that you could go to jail for a failure to settle one casein the State of Utah?QUESTION: Did this jury --QUESTION: It didn't have authority to send themto jail though, did it?MS. BIRNBAUM: No, they didn't.QUESTION: You know, but you're making -- Ithink you're making two arguments. First, you're makingthe argument that you started with, and that is, evidence was improperly admitted, acts in other States wereimproperly considered, acts unlike failure to settle wereimproperly considered.Let's assume, for the sake of argument, that youlose -- I mean, if you win on that, I presume we're notgoing to get to the point you're arguing now. Let'sassume you lose on that. You get to the point that you'rearguing now and you say, okay, times the amount ofactual damage would be okay, is not. What do we putin an opinion to indicate what is the proper point in th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC between and ?MS. BIRNBAUM: I think you've already put thatin your opinions in this Court already, and that is thatthere has to be a relationship between the amount of thepunitive damages and the compensatory harm to theplaintiff.QUESTION: Yes, I know that, and the questionis, is times the relationship appropriate, and isnot? And how about , and , and ? How do we grapplewith that?MS. BIRNBAUM: Well, I think you grapple withthat only by looking at the three guideposts that you'vealready put forth, and it could be , it could be , andsome courts have even held , but most of the courts thathave followed your jurisprudence have held that , or , or is close to the line.QUESTION: Is the point of your argumentultimately -- you're not saying this, but I mean, if weaccept the way you're going, are we really going down theroad to saying, look, at some point we've got to leavethis in a less protean state, and we've got to pick anumber, and is that our business to do?MS. BIRNBAUM: Now, we're not asking you to puta bright line. It would be helpful, but I don't thinkthis Court is prepared to do that. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: Well, would the bright line behelpful if we said, up to -- pick a number -- timeswill be usually accepted unless that is not adequateenough to compensate the plaintiff for the wrong that wasdone to him?MS. BIRNBAUM: That would be an excellent way ofdrawing the line, Your Honor.QUESTION: You get this out of what provision ofour Bill of Rights?MS. BIRNBAUM: Your Honor, we get it out of dueprocess, the two bedrock provisions called due process andfederalism. Federalism, comity, States' rights.QUESTION: But as far as --QUESTION: It's not specific, is it? timesis what it says.MS. BIRNBAUM: No, we're not suggesting that. Ithought it was a good idea, however.(Laughter.)QUESTION: Ms. Birnbaum, I'd like you to clarifyyour position on what has been calledextraterritoriality --MS. BIRNBAUM: Yes, Your Honor.QUESTION: -- because I thought today that youwere very forthright with the Court. You said no, you'renot going to make a distinction whether the plaintiff th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC comes from California or New York rather than Utah.MS. BIRNBAUM: Right.QUESTION: So you can't just draw a line aroundthe State of Utah and say, that's the relevant State. Butyou tell us a supplemental brief was calling attention toa case where there was a specific request to make thatkind of charge. You made no such, State Farm made no suchrequest in this case, as far as I can tell.MS. BIRNBAUM: Yes, they did, Your Honor.QUESTION: Yes? Where?MS. BIRNBAUM: Well, it might not have beentotally the same that --QUESTION: Which one?MS. BIRNBAUM: It's in the lodging at . Itwas instruction number .QUESTION: Yes, and instruction number , whichI looked for, was the closest thing.MS. BIRNBAUM: That's right --QUESTION: That talks about both compensatoryand punitive damages, that you should base it on StateFarm's conduct in handling of the case against CurtisCampbell.MS. BIRNBAUM: Right.QUESTION: Only.MS. BIRNBAUM: Right. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: Now, that's not even saying otherpeople within Utah. So that's -- and it's alike forcompensatory and punitive. That is nothing like thecharge that said, look in the State of Nevada. But I justwanted to make sure that you are saying, you don't lookonly to Utah, because this particular plaintiff happenedto come to Utah. It would be the same thing if theplaintiff came from California.MS. BIRNBAUM: Absolutely, Your Honor.Let me just mention one other part of theguideposts which I think are very relevant here, and thatis comparable penalties for comparable misconduct, andhere it is uncontroverted that the penalty that the Utahcourts or the Utah system could have placed on State Farmfor an act, for a single act of bad faith failure to settle, which was at stake here, was $,.Yet when the Utah Supreme Court examined thatguidepost from the Court, it looked at the scheme. Itlooked at all of the nationwide conduct to determine that) you could be -- you would have to disgorge all yourprofits or you could be imprisoned, which was not correctanyhow under the Utah statute.But if you restate the guideposts that you havealready come down with, and you make it clear that we'retalking about conduct that was permitted to the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC plaintiffs, that we're talking about reasonable ratiosthat had to do with the plaintiff's wrong, not harm toothers, not harm to all of those in Utah -- in fact, ifyou look at the bad faith failure to settle issue, therewas no one in the State of Utah that was harmed by thatkind of conduct. There was nobody that was even subject,Justice Breyer, for a short time with execution, andthat -- and there was no reason, there was no reason todeter that kind of conduct because there was no conduct inthe future, after the Campbell case, that that even cameclose to.So I think that if you focus on those factors,those guideposts that you elucidated to in Gore, and makethem stronger, that would be sufficient for the lowercourts to do their job in doing a meaningful -- meaningful appellate review, not the kind of review here that wasbased on questionable conclusions and improper predicates.Thank you.QUESTION: Thank you, Ms. Birnbaum.Mr. Tribe, we'll hear from you.ORAL ARGUMENT OF LAURENCE H. TRIBEON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTMR. TRIBE: Justice Stevens, and may it pleasethe Court:I think I might begin by saying that I barely th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC recognize the case that, though I didn't try, I read thetranscript in, from hearing Ms. Birnbaum's description. She says that the conduct involved in this case was simplythe failure to settle. It wasn't, she says, even anintentional tort. Well, the Court's --QUESTION: Well, that was the sole ground ofliability, was it not?MR. TRIBE: The sole ground of originalliability was objectively unreasonable failure to settle,but phase , which was held at the insistence ofplaintiffs, who wanted -- of the defendants who wanted tobifurcate, phase focused on the question of whetherthere was an intentional tort, and there was found to befraud; and the court, the trial court affirmed thejudgment partly on the ground of intentional fraud; and the fraud, and it's not a surprise really to the lawyersfor the defendants, because they made it clear in theiropening statement that they understood the whole theory ofthis case to be that the insurance policies that werebeing sold by State Farm, which led people to think thatin first and in third party cases the claims adjusterwould try to do a reasonably objective job of satisfyingthe claim if possible, in fact weren't bad at all.There was a clandestine cap that was imposed bythis innocuous-looking bureaucratic PP&R program that was th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC thoroughly documented and that was imposed fromheadquarters, documented elaborately by hundreds ofexamples; and it's true, some of them came from otherStates, and I will get to that; but they were all justillustrative, because it came from headquarters inBloomington, and it was a directive --QUESTION: I take it the policy is, pay aslittle as possible, even if fraud is necessary?MR. TRIBE: And, in fact, it was necessary here. That is, they made up things. They doctored the file.QUESTION: All right, I see that, but what's --MR. TRIBE: They made up the fact that -- theydefamed this dead person and said that he was speeding tomeet a pregnant girlfriend, who didn't exist. There werefindings that they systematically shredded, and destroyed, and fabricated documents for two decades in order to coverup the fact that they were not selling what they werepretending to sell.And it was found in this case clearly, and thenagain de novo by the Utah Supreme Court, that this policy,which was clandestine and then covered up, was a policythat had persisted for two decades, which they even nowseem unwilling to acknowledge.QUESTION: Can I interrupt with a question?MR. TRIBE: Sure. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: I'm sure you're going to get to it,but one can infer -- maybe it's not entirely clear -- thatall of this was established, and there are very, verymany, many bad, bad deeds done in all parts of the UnitedStates, but that the $ million is in large partpunishment for what was done outside of Utah.MR. TRIBE: Oh, I don't think so, JusticeStevens. I do plan to get to that.QUESTION: The second point that relates to thatis that when the Supreme Court of Utah made the comparisonto what the criminal penalty might have been, they had tobe referring to more than what could have been imposed inUtah. MR. TRIBE: No, Justice Stevens, what they saidwas this. They referred among other things to the Utah Unfair Claims Practices Act, which said $, fine perviolation; and there were in their view thousands ofindividual instances of wrongfully denied benefits.QUESTION: In Utah?MR. TRIBE: In Utah, yes, because they didn'tdraw this fancy distinction between first and third partyclaims that is being drawn for the convenience of StateFarm. The wrong is not --QUESTION: That's the basis of the underlyingtort, which was the failure -- which was the excess. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. TRIBE: That was the example --QUESTION: Which was the excess.MR. TRIBE: -- Justice Kennedy. That was thetip of the iceberg.Justice Kennedy, this is very important. Inthis particular case, it was the failure to settle a case,and it was a fraudulent failure to settle a case, not justa random accident, but it was pursuant to exactly the samepolicy, capping the average amount that a given claimsagents puts out in terms of State Farm money, that is usedin these other instances. It was exactly the same policy.In this case, it was because this fellow namedBill Brown wanted to move to Colorado, and because he did,and because he was close to his quota, and this is all inthe record, and it is found -- and it's not disputed any longer. Because he wanted to move to Colorado, he putspressure on somebody underneath him to make sure that thatyear's numbers look better.QUESTION: Of course, companies would have apolicy of trying to make as much money as possible.MR. TRIBE: It's not just making as muchmoney --QUESTION: Well, some companies could add --MR. TRIBE: -- it's stealing.QUESTION: -- could add to that, by the way, one th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC way we make money is, we pay out as little as possible andwe charge as much as possible. I remember an airline thathad the policy, charge the customer the highest price hewill pay for the service that he wants, all right?MR. TRIBE: But Justice Breyer --QUESTION: There could be such a policy.MR. TRIBE: Right --QUESTION: Now --MR. TRIBE: -- and if the policy is sell him aticket and then turn him away at the door --QUESTION: Oh, no, no, but by the way --MR. TRIBE: -- pretending to sell him a place --QUESTION: -- it might be that such a policywould even condone doing a lot of bad things to do that,and what's worrying me about permitting that kind of policy to serve as a justification for a $-millionjudgment is precisely what I wrote in my concurrence inthe BMW case, that the Constitution, indeed the MagnaCarta says that you should not take life, liberty, orproperty without law; and to take people, call them ajury, selected at random, and tell them that they are freeto go through the business practices of a company --MR. TRIBE: Justice Breyer --QUESTION: -- to unite them under the name of apolicy and then assess $ million for every bad thing th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC that this jury thinks --MR. TRIBE: Justice Breyer, please -- I believein the Magna Carta as much as you do. It was notarbitrary. There were criteria. The criteria werepursuant to an instruction proposed by State Farm, and inthis case it was not every bad thing. All of thespecifics, including these seemingly trivial things likeappearance allowances, were all introduced in particularcases to show how they were being used by someone who wasup against his monthly quota, and because he was upagainst the monthly quota -- you read the testimony ofGary Fye at page and of the joint appendix. Because they were up against the monthly quota, the peopleat the receiving end who thought they had a claims agentwho was, as they call him, a good neighbor, in fact had someone who was selling them a place in the airline, andit wasn't there, deliberately.QUESTION: Nothing you have said, Mr. Tribe,Professor, persuades me that the jury didn't punish thiscompany for being a bad company quite without reference --MR. TRIBE: Because of the --QUESTION: -- to the harm this plaintiffsuffered.MR. TRIBE: Well, first of all, as to the harmsuffered, proposed instruction by State Farm would have th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC told the jury, I think consistent with this Court'sjurisprudence and with the history of punitive damages,that they could consider the effect of State Farm'sbehavior, quote, "on the lives of plaintiffs and of otherpolicyholders," and it's because, Justice Breyer, of whatyou said in BMW that a lot of other people who are harmedby these practices are not likely to be able to sue. Thatis, they're not going to make it.Mr. Fye testified at and , for everyonelike Campbell, who will take on a company this size andwith the resources of State Farm, there are hundreds, ifnot thousands, who will simply go away, because StateFarm --QUESTION: Mr. Tribe, maybe fewer, maybe fewernow after a verdict of that size, and isn't that one of the problems? MR. TRIBE: Well, that's the hope. That --QUESTION: Isn't that -- now there's anincentive for lawyers to pursue such claims. Before theymight have thought them too small to be worthwhile.MR. TRIBE: One of the advantages -- there maybe down sides, but if we prevail, Justice Ginsburg, we'reprevailing on a theory that the practice we've identified,which is quite specific, for years of putting theseinvisible caps that cheat the insured in all kinds of th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC cases throughout the State of Utah, there will no longerbe anyone who can recover for those harms, beyondcompensatory damages, because the penalty will have beenextracted.QUESTION: The question that's bothering me --QUESTION: Is that true in New York or Vermont? I mean, you said in Utah there would be no one who can getanother $ million --MR. TRIBE: I think if they've done this inevery State, then they should be exposed to thepossibility of punitive damages in other States.QUESTION: So you could multiple that by .MR. TRIBE: Well, you know, it seems to me, ifyou look at the opinion that was delivered from the benchby the district court after months, in his own words --they accuse us of writing his opinion.In his own words, what he said was that absent apunitive award, the problem of recurrence of theirmisconduct is extremely high, the probability ofrecurrence; because he saw the evidence that they neverstopped; and he said that even the $-million award thathe felt constrained by State law, mistakenly, to give, hethought would not suffice because -- and I'm now readingfrom his December opinion -- because the $ millionmay not be enough to offset the profit that they're likely th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC to have earned.That is, every time they cheat the insured by --QUESTION: Mr. Tribe, you've told me that thisis all based on what happened in Utah. I haven't readthis massive record, and you tell me you have. In thesecond phase of the punitive damages trial, not the firstone --MR. TRIBE: Yes.QUESTION: -- when they did get into out ofState evidence, what proportion, in your judgment, of thatevidence related to Utah, and what proportion related toother States?MR. TRIBE: I think the overwhelming majorityrelated to Utah, and every time it came in dealing withanother State, contrary to what we heard, it was because the door had been opened, and it was specifically found bythe trial court that they waived any objection to thetestimony in question, despite what we heard about --QUESTION: But you're telling me that over halfof the evidence related to Utah itself?MR. TRIBE: Yes, but let me tell you, JusticeStevens, it was so uniform that the particular exampleswere picked because they so nicely illustrated the way aparticular device like the use of non-OPM parts wouldinteract with the cap that was imposed. It was nothing th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC about --QUESTION: Are they correct in telling us thatthis -- there's only one example of a failure to settle --MR. TRIBE: We have no way of knowing, JusticeStevens, because they have erected -- the record alsoshows that since the s, part of their policy ofdestroying records has included --QUESTION: Yes, but there must have been a lotof records --MR. TRIBE: -- getting rid of all those records.QUESTION: But they didn't destroy all theevidence to have a trial go on this long.MR. TRIBE: Well, it's because -- part of whatwas said by the trial court was that it took thepersistence of a David to bring this particular Goliath to his knees. Much of the evidence certainly wasn't producedthrough discovery. The key evidence, including the May PP&R report, was obtained indirectly through othercases, not with any cooperation on the part of State Farm. State Farm kept saying, we don't have a PP&R policy. Oh,and then we got rid of it in ; and we got rid of itagain in ; and yes, there's a PP&R policy, but itdoesn't actually set the cap on any particular claim.Well, that's a nicely and artfully put point. It doesn't. What it does is, it imposes a ceiling which th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC averages things out and forces whoever is unlucky enoughto come in when somebody is about to hit his ceiling toget cheated. It seems to me that we -- it's true that itall began by looking at this, as it happened, failure tosettle. That's a happenstance. It could have begun insome other way.Because it happened to a couple that was rathervulnerable, and yet tenacious: this fellow had had onewife who had been murdered in his home, another wife whohad died of cancer. He himself had Parkinson's disease. They were part of the weakest of the herd, asState Farm's policies put it, that they're picked on,because they're less likely to fight back. But it happenedthat these people did fight back, and it seems to me it'snot a matter of rewarding them. They get a relatively small piece of this. The family of the dead young mangets part of it. The State may get part of it. The keypoint is that it is a critical disincentive, and JusticeKennedy, any notion --QUESTION: Well, some people get part of it thatweren't hurt at all.MR. TRIBE: Some lawyers will certainly get partof it. I don't --QUESTION: I wasn't referring to the lawyers.MR. TRIBE: I -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC (Laughter.)MR. TRIBE: What made me think you might havebeen? No, but it seems --QUESTION: Well, I was referring to the otherpeople that took an assignment of the claim together with--MR. TRIBE: That could be, but --QUESTION: I was referring to them, and myproblem is that in fact what you have is a system where ifyou take, let's call it the most evil corporation in theworld, and I'm sure there are some such, and they commit avery minor tort in respect to someone, pursuant to theirpolicy of being evil --(Laughter.)QUESTION: -- and it seems to me that there are criminal laws, there are regulatory authorities, there arestatutes --MR. TRIBE: Right.QUESTION: -- there is common law, there aremany, many sources of law; and it's disturbing in terms ofthe picture of the law to have people picked at randomto assess an enormous fine without standards other than,"this defendant is evil," and I'm assuming he is evil.MR. TRIBE: Justice Breyer, first, it's not fairto say that was the only standard. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: Oh, no, I'm trying --MR. TRIBE: Second -- second --QUESTION: -- to get you to say what thestandard was, if it is not that.MR. TRIBE: I thought this Court did a rathergood job in BMW. Reprehensibility could hardly be higherwhen one has a repeat offender who even nowmischaracterizes its intentional tort, when one has arepeat offender that obstructs justice --QUESTION: But again, you're definingreprehensibility quite without regard to the specificinjury imposed on the plaintiff.MR. TRIBE: Well --QUESTION: You're defining -- you're giving areport card to the entire company.MR. TRIBE: No, but Justice Kennedy, in TXO thisCourt talked about the ratio not just of the harm thatactually befell the particular plaintiff, but of thepunitive damages to the harm that might have befallen thatplaintiff if the tortious plan had been carried tocompletion. Here, if it had been carried to completion thehome would have been taken, because a deal would not havebeen struck in December of ' -- of ', and also in TXO,and in other cases, you've spoken of the harm to the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC larger community. You've also spoken of the importance ofextracting the profit from tortious behavior.QUESTION: I think -- Justice Breyer touched onthis. Part of the harm to the larger community here isthe image that this does to the judicial system whencorporations, businesses, people of substance want to usethe courts and they're deterred from doing it by thethreat of runaway punitive damages, and that is not goodfor the legal system.MR. TRIBE: Justice Kennedy, I certainly agreein principle; but to pick a case in which a corporationhas defied the legal system, has shredded documents, hascovered up its deliberate wrongdoing, has not evenbothered to pay attention to a $ million award -- yes,of course it wasn't reduced to a judgment, but the evidence in this case is that that's not relevant. Whatwas critical is that they had built a wall of deniabilityso that no one in a decisionmaking capacity is informed ofpunitive judgments.Mr. Muskowski testified in this case that hewould not let anyone know, in a position of authority,even of the punitive judgment in this case; and in theirreply brief they say, well, Mr. Mendoza had decisionmakingauthority, but if you look at the relevant pages in thejoint appendix, you'll see that that's not true. In the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC colloquy it's clear that he did not.What that means is that a company can surrounditself with an impregnable wall and in effect spit at thelegal system. How good is that for its image?Now, it may be that an ideal legal system mightnot use juries for this purpose, but is it the mission ofthis Court to redesign the legal systems of the States? States have signed an amicus brief here saying it'simportant to them to be able to use punitive damages whenthe regulatory and criminal justice systems haven't quitecaught up with whatever latest axis of evil is afoot inthe corporate world. Is it really helpful to any of us to have acorporation be able to defraud all of the people who relyon it, who depend on it, and get away with paying simply what harm they happened to cause in the one case when theyget caught?It seems to me especially bizarre, especiallybizarre for State Farm to speak here proudly of the factthat this is the worst case in history.QUESTION: Can I ask one other question justabout the proceedings here?MR. TRIBE: Yes.QUESTION: The record is so large I didn't havethe whole thing completely in mind. After the trial judge th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC reduced the jury's award of $ million to -- what wasit, $ million?MR. TRIBE: .QUESTION: -- $ million, State Farm stillMR. TRIBE: There was a cross-appeal by Stateappealed.Farm.QUESTION: Well, did both sides appeal that?MR. TRIBE: Yes.QUESTION: I see. It wasn't clear to me.MR. TRIBE: That's right. State Farm appealedbecause it thought there should be no punitives. It seemseven now they think it did nothing wrong.QUESTION: Yes.MR. TRIBE: And there was a cross-appeal by the Campbells on the grounds that they thought it was amistake of State law to have reduced the punitives.QUESTION: I was thinking it would have beenquite a shock if State Farm had been the only appellanthere and that was the result of that appeal.MR. TRIBE: Yes.QUESTION: It's sort of dramatic, yes.MR. TRIBE: Yes, well --QUESTION: Both sides appealed.MR. TRIBE: Yes, that's correct. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: And isn't there a certain irony inthat it was chopped down to $ million, and then the UtahSupreme Court, using this Court's case law, saying wedon't give the ordinary deference that we would give tothat judgment of the trial court, because the SupremeCourt had told us we must engage in de novo review, andengaging in de novo review, we don't chop it down, we putit back to where it was originally.MR. TRIBE: Well, Justice Ginsburg, I think in asense that looks ironic. It looks as though Cooper v.Leatherman came back in a boomerang, but I think reallythe way I read the opinion of the Utah Supreme Court, theyapplied Cooper in an even more vigorous way in general. That is, they didn't just engage in de novo review of thequestion of excessiveness. They engaged in de novo review of all the facts, so you have not just a jury, but a juryand a trial court and a full appellate court.The only fact on which they said they weren'tgoing to defer was a technical issue about the wealth ofState Farm, and the real reason they actually gave forincreasing the to was their conviction that thetrial court believed that would not stop State Farmfrom persisting in its practices, and that it was onlytheir own earlier suggestion that the ratio should mattera great deal that had misled the trial court. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: What do you think the ratio should --I mean, we did say something in BMW about ratio betweencompensatory damages and punitives. What do you think theratio should be? No limit, to, -- whatever ittakes to stop them? I mean, what if nothing will stopthem but sending them to jail?MR. TRIBE: Well, in this case, sending them tojail was an option that the Supreme Court of Utahmentioned, and that State Farm doesn't seem to take veryseriously. They think the State Supreme Court of Utahdoesn't understand its own law. There are provisions ofUtah law that make deliberate fraud of the sort theycommitted an imprisonable offense, and maybe that's anoption, but that suggests --QUESTION: You mean, you could right in this case put people in prison for --MR. TRIBE: Well, I haven't -- I have no contactwith the Attorney General of Utah, but they --QUESTION: No, no, I mean, you'd have to bringanother trial, wouldn't you?MR. TRIBE: Well, of course you -- yes. Yes,but the comparability standard asks, how serious anoffense is this, and I submit it's extremely serious.But to your question, Justice Scalia, on ratio,I think that instead of trying to come up with a number -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC because I think suggesting any number would be soarbitrary that it would do more damage to this Court thangood to the legal system. It's not like months for theidea of a serious crime. I mean, it would just be anumber plucked from the air, and it would backfire,because as the law and economics people are fond ofpointing out, any number you pick will then lead people tosort of modify their behavior accordingly, and justinternalize the costs on a kind of bad man theory, andwhat you really are trying to do is stop the behavior. We're not talking about negligence here. We'retalking about something of which the optimal level iszero. The optimal level of deliberate fraud and deceptioncovered up in this way is zero.The relevance of the ratio, I think, is simply as one thing to look at. If the ratio looks very high,you ask why is it so high? In this case, the answer comesback, it's so high because the ratio of the number ofpeople they hurt to the number who are going to bemotivated to sue and able to sue is very low. I mean, isvery -- you know, a number -- a huge number will be hurt. A very small number are going to be able to make itthrough that filter.QUESTION: Well, with verdicts like this, wemight see an increase, don't you think? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. TRIBE: Well, I suppose. I suppose, butthere are ways of getting rid of frivolous lawsuits.The point also is, it's hard -- if you see anincrease, Justice O'Connor, and if it is an increase thatgets anywhere, it might be because they stopped destroyingthe evidence, because they stopped fabricating -- they'veso doctored the files, like the file in this case, to makeit look in any given case as though the report that theygive corresponds to the history of the case, and it'sawfully hard to sue successfully when the file has beenmassaged and doctored.The result in a case like this is of course itlooks like a very large award, but --QUESTION: What if there were in Utah a secondCampbell, a second excess carrier, and the case was tried months later. Would they get the same punitive damages?MR. TRIBE: No. If it was for any activity thatoccurred during the period from May to the time ofthis trial --QUESTION: Both hypothetical plaintiffs areinjured around the time Campbell is, and they both bringthe same kind of suit and they have the same evidence;they each get the ?MR. TRIBE: No. I think that it's a penaltythat is like -- there ought to be some double jeopardy th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC like doctrine that if they can show that they've alreadybeen punished for this course of conduct, they ought notto have to pay the penalty a second time.Now, the Double Jeopardy Clause --QUESTION: Mr. Tribe, I thought you answered --QUESTION: What's the authority for thatproposition?MR. TRIBE: I would -- I just made it up.(Laughter.)QUESTION: Professor Tribe.MR. TRIBE: I just made it up. I said thereought to be such a doctrine.QUESTION: Mr. Tribe, you're talking about asecond Utah plaintiff. I thought you answered --MR. TRIBE: Yes, a second --QUESTION: Several questions ago you said thiscould be multiplied at least times. That is, one bigwinner in each State.MR. TRIBE: Well, if they commit bigoffenses, it's part of our jurisprudence of States thatthey might be subject to penalties. That --QUESTION: Your argument is that this is allUtah damages, so there are --MR. TRIBE: That's right. That's --QUESTION: -- other claims out there that th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC must be at least as valuable.MR. TRIBE: Well, that's right.QUESTION: Yes.QUESTION: And even in Utah, I thought our casesays you're punishing them for the harm done to thisplaintiff.MR. TRIBE: Ultimately, you are.QUESTION: If you can take reprehensibility intoaccount, but it's for the harm done to -- well, what aboutthe harm done to all the other plaintiffs in Utah?MR. TRIBE: Justice Scalia, there's no pretensethat this is compensatory damages. The compensatorydamage compensates them for the harm done to them.QUESTION: Then you shouldn't have said that.MR. TRIBE: Then the reprehensibility of what was done to them is affected by, as this Court has said,whether it was an isolated event, as they claimed, orwhether it was done as part of a schematic, systematicform of predation.Now, it was of that sort. That was shown. Thefact that it was predation that was launched fromBloomington and therefore spread throughout the country isState Farm's problem. It shouldn't be the problem of theplaintiff who collects punitive damages in a given case.QUESTION: Mr. Tribe, I can't remember -- I th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC assume it's in the briefs, I just don't remember, what wasthe instruction to the jury on any limits on theirconsideration of the out-of-State evidence? Was the jurytold, look, you can only punish them for what they didhere, this only goes to intent, or something like that?MR. TRIBE: There was no request here, as therewas, for example, in the recent Ninth Circuit case againstFord, no request whatsoever by State Farm for such aninstruction.What they did request, and were not entitled to,was that under BMW they preserved an objection that theout-of-State evidence be completely disregarded, eventhough it came in in response to the doors that they hadopened, but they did not --QUESTION: But the objection never eventuated in a request for an instruction --MR. TRIBE: Not at all.QUESTION: -- or in instruction addressingspecifically that point?MR. TRIBE: No, and they were fully aware -- Imean, the day after BMW came down, there was a benchconference. There was an extended colloquy. It wasfully --QUESTION: But wasn't that after the trial? Ithought that was in the petition for reconsideration? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. TRIBE: No. The -- May , was beforethe full-blown -month period of the phase trial.QUESTION: I see.MR. TRIBE: And it was known very clearly theday after BMW that a good bit of the evidence in thiscase, because many of the examples of how this policyworked, would come from other places, would not be Utah-based. The $-million verdict which would illustratethe wall they built would come from Texas.They never once asked for an instructionlimiting matters to Utah, and I don't fault them for it. It would have been rather bizarre to do so, because theyknew full well that we were not asking the Utah jury orthe Utah courts to punish them for what they didelsewhere.We were simply using what was done elsewherefirst to rebut their commissioners -- they brought incommissioners from various States to testify that StateFarm never did anything wrong. The trial court said, nowyou know, if you do that, you're going to open the door --Justice Stevens, I wanted to just -- if you do that,you're going to open the door to proof of what happenedelsewhere. They didn't mind, and they insisted that thesequence of proof be rebuttal first, actually, throughdepositions, and then the principal arguments, which made th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC it look as though it was part of the direct case. I thinkthat --QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. Tribe.MR. TRIBE: -- this judgment should be affirmed.Thank you.MS. BIRNBAUM: Do I have a little time, can Ijust -- left to respond?QUESTION: You have about --MS. BIRNBAUM: Two minutes?QUESTION: You have, I think, a minute and ahalf -- but let's make it two and a half. REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF SHEILA L. BIRNBAUMON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERMS. BIRNBAUM: Thank you, Your Honor, Iappreciate that, because there are certain things that Mr. Tribe said that I think we have to clarify.First of all, this case, on the openings of theplaintiff, the plaintiff said to the jury, this casetranscends the Campbells' file. It involves a nationwidepractice. He went on to say, you're going to beevaluating and assessing and hopefully requiring StateFarm to stand accountable for what it is doing across thecountry. That is the purpose of punitive damages.On the summation, they asked this jury to act asa national regulator, because none of the regulators had th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC acted against State Farm. Can you imagine, in a -- ina -year period, State Farm handled approximately million claims.QUESTION: What limiting instruction did you askfor?MS. BIRNBAUM: The only instruction, Your Honor,was the instruction that I previously read to JusticeGinsburg that they should look to the conduct toward theCampbells, and that was the instruction. There was noother instruction.But whether there was an instruction or not, Ithink as the Ninth Circuit just said in White v. Ford, youhave to look at the evidence, the openings, the closings,and what was punished here. It was a scheme, and thescheme had no causal relationship with the decision to try this case. You asked, Justice Stevens, how much of theevidence was extraterritorial? Huge amounts, and it camein on direct, and we have it cited in our brief, and itwasn't only --QUESTION: Do you disagree with Mr. Tribe'ssuggestion that over half the evidence related to Utah?MS. BIRNBAUM: No, Your Honor. It related toMr. Campbell's underlying case, not to actions in Utahthat harmed Utah policyholders. That was all inferred th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC from this large national scheme. In fact, the evidence iscontrary.QUESTION: You're saying the Utah evidence wasevidence relating to this particular case --MS. BIRNBAUM: Absolutely.QUESTION: -- rather than to other Utahpolicyholders.MS. BIRNBAUM: And if you look at the footnotein their brief, and look at our reply brief, we point outall of that evidence had to do with the underlying case. The lawyers from the underlying case, Mr. Campbell, Mrs.Campbell, Ospital, Slusher et cetera, and this issue ofwhether there was one, whether this -- Mr. Campbell wasvulnerable, Mr. Campbell was the only person in this wholetrial that wasn't vulnerable. He was a -year-old white man and who had a B.A. and an M.A. He sat through theentire trial and he said he was not liable, and thedecision was made that this was a no liability case.Mr. Tribe says Ospital was not speeding --JUSTICE STEVENS: Thank you, Ms. Birnbaum.MS. BIRNBAUM: Thank you so much.JUSTICE STEVENS: I think we've got yourposition.The case is submitted.(Whereupon, at : p.m., the case in the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC above-entitled matter was submitted.) th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC 