 IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XWARREN CHRISTOPHER, FORMER :SECRETARY OF STATE, ET AL., :Petitioners :v. : No. -JENNIFER K. HARBURY. :- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XWashington, D.C.Monday, March , The above-entitled matter came on for oralargument before the Supreme Court of the United States at: a.m.APPEARANCES:RICHARD A. CORDRAY, ESQ., Grove City, Ohio; on behalfof the Petitioners.THEODORE B. OLSON, ESQ., Solicitor General, Department ofJustice, Washington, D.C.; for the United States, asamicus curiae, supporting the Petitioners.JENNIFER K. HARBURY, ESQ., Weslaco, Texas; on behalf ofthe Respondent. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC C O N T E N T SORAL ARGUMENT OF RICHARD A. CORDRAY, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioners THEODORE B. OLSON, ESQ.On behalf of the United States, as amicus curiae, supporting the Petitioners JENNIFER K. HARBURY, ESQ.On behalf of the Respondent REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OFRICHARD A. CORDRAY, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioners PAGE th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC P R O C E E D I N G S(: a.m.)CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: We'll hear argumentnext in No. -, Warren Christopher v. Jennifer K.Harbury. Mr. Cordray.ORAL ARGUMENT OF RICHARD A. CORDRAYON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERSMR. CORDRAY: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice. Mayit please the Court:I represent current and former Governmentofficials who have been sued in their individual capacitybased on a claim for denial of access to the courts andthe further claim that they violated clearly establishedlaw as of , thus negating their defense of qualifiedimmunity. The substantive due process right of accessclaim urged here is extremely expansive and unsupported bythe Court's precedents. Our position boils down to this. The right of access is not violated unless an individualis, in fact, barred from filing claims in the courts. Inlimited circumstances, far different from those at issuehere, the Court has recognized that an actual bar toaccess in the courts implicates the Due Process Clause. Here there is no denial of access to the courts under this th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Court's precedents. The claim asserted here, moreover, wouldconstitutionalize the handling of informal channels ofcommunication between Government officials and privatecitizens. It's entirely foreseeable that recognizing thisclaim would cause the flow of information to the public tobe reduced to stultifying forms of pretrial discovery. Weknow no holding of this Court that would lead to such aresult. QUESTION: To begin with right of access, theBell case, Bell v. Milwaukee, is discussed in -- in thebriefs. That's . This is Bivens. I recognize thedistinction. That's, of course, a circuit court case. It's not -- but suppose that case were here. Suppose wehad the Bell case. Would you say the Bell case iscorrect?MR. CORDRAY: Your Honor, we feel that theconduct at issue in the Bell case, very serious misconduct-- there were actual criminal violations. Theperpetrators were prosecuted. There would be many ways toaddress the misconduct at issue in that case. We do notbelieve that it would state a claim for denial of accessto the courts. We also believe -- and in fact, it's -- thedistrict court held here the facts of that case are quite th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC distant from this case where here we're in the sensitivecontext of foreign policy and the oversight of covertoperations in a foreign country, and that would result --QUESTION: But your basic position is -- is thatthere's a police coverup and the police destroy theevidence and they lie, et cetera, no -- no cause of actionfor denial of access to courts. MR. CORDRAY: That's correct. There would bemany remedies that could and should be imposed in such acase. QUESTION: Even where the purpose of the actionof the official is to conceal facts that would haveprovided the basis for a legal recovery in court.MR. CORDRAY: We believe so, Your Honor, and forthis reason. In this case, the court of appeals devised amixed motive test if one of the purposes was to prevent orimpede a lawsuit.QUESTION: Well, yes, but we're speakinghypothetically.MR. CORDRAY: Yes. QUESTION: And there's some circuit courtsupport for where that's the alleged motive, that thatcould provide a basis for a suit for denial of access tothe court. MR. CORDRAY: Alleged that that is the sole th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC motive, no other motive. I mean, it's -- what I'm tryingto communicate is it's very difficult in these cases to --to suggest this. It's very easy to allege that this is one of themotives or even the sole motive at a motion to dismissstage where the -- where the allegations are treatedgenerously and, all of a sudden, all of these claimsbecome constitutional claims. If there's some failure totimely disclose information and some irreparable harmresults, this could apply, for example, in undercoverGovernment investigations of criminal conduct, stingoperations. If the allegation is made that maybe myattorney inquired, there was some intentionally misleadingstatement made, and therefore, as a result, someirreparable harm occurred, someone was killed during theimplementation of the operation, something of that sort,all of these would become denial of access to court --QUESTION: Suppose that it is an ordinary case,civil case, criminal system, and they're holding -- agroup of rogue policemen are unlawfully somebody in a jailcell and his wife comes in and says, I -- I want to get a-- go to court and get a writ of habeas corpus on hisbehalf. Now, will you tell me please, is that -- is thisgoing on? And they lie so that she cannot go to court andget the writ of habeas corpus. Now, in that circumstance, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC would that be a -- a denial of access to the courts? MR. CORDRAY: In a situation where theGovernment was holding an individual in custody, thereforephysically barring that person from accessing the courts,that person --QUESTION: No, no. The person -- the wife --MR. CORDRAY: That -- that person --QUESTION: -- wants to go.MR. CORDRAY: That person would have a claim fordenial of access to the courts. The wife or an attorney inquiring on theirbehalf, et cetera, do not have a right to Governmentinformation. The mere fact that someone is incarcerateddoesn't mean that their attorney inquiring of theprosecutor's office or the police have some right ofaccess to information. QUESTION: Suppose -- suppose the Governmentimprisons the key witness in my suit in order to depriveme of the ability to win the suit. Is there denial ofaccess to courts there? Again, we'll have -- let'sassume because Bivens has an extra problem. MR. CORDRAY: Are we talking about a criminalcase, a criminal proceeding? QUESTION: Either --MR. CORDRAY: A witness -- it would matter if it th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC were a criminal proceeding because there are special fairtrial guarantees that the Constitution imposes such asBrady v. Maryland and the like in a -- an ongoing criminalproceeding. If we're talking about a civil case or hereprior to any civil case even being filed when we're in therealm of potentially pretrial investigation, discovery ofinformation, people seeking information, that would notconstitute a substantive due process right of access tocourts claim, we do not believe. Again, those facts,again, are far afield from what's at issue in this case,but we don't believe that -- that that would file a claim,would be our position. You wouldn't need to go that farin this case.QUESTION: Was a FOIA claim open to therespondent here? Could -- could such information havebeen sought and obtained theoretically under FOIA?MR. CORDRAY: At any time. At any time. And infact, respondent did file FOIA claims later. Hercontention here is that she was lulled into inaction, butof course, it remained open to her at any time to file aFOIA claim. It remained open to her at any time to file alawsuit in the courts. And in fact, she did so. Shelater pursued litigation to -- under FOIA to getdocuments. She received thousands of pages of documents.Part of the complaint here is that the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC information was not timely disclosed. And again, that'sunfortunate. It's regrettable. There may even beindividuals who should be called to account for it, but itdoesn't constitute a substantive right of access to courtsclaim under the substantive due process line of cases or,you know, all such communications between Governmentofficials and private citizens --QUESTION: Mr. Cordray, may -- may I go back toyour answer about this being like a sting operation? Those are designed to uncover crimes, and the object ofthe sting is a suspect. But here, we're not dealing withsomeone who was suspected of a crime. We're dealing withsomeone who was seeking information from her Governmentfor perfectly understandable, appropriate purposes. MR. CORDRAY: That -- that's true, nor do wecontend otherwise. But even a suspect, a criminalsuspect, is innocent till proven guilty, and the purposeof those operations is to try to ferret out crime. It'strue. But it --QUESTION: But couldn't one make a distinction? I mean, you say if this case, then the sting operation,and I think that however you come out in this case, you'renot touching the sting case. MR. CORDRAY: I don't believe that's correct,Your Honor, because a constitutional line can't be founded th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC there. It can't be maintained there. It has no mooringsat that point. We're not talking about guilty suspectswho have already been adjudicated. We're talking aboutindividuals --QUESTION: People suspected of crimes. MR. CORDRAY: Sure. And -- and here, theGovernment's purposes involved overseeing covert militaryoperations in a foreign country. There may be innocentsinvolved. There may be people who are impeding ourforeign policy and the like. The Government is trying tocarry out its functions, carry out its duties andresponsibilities, and the same is true of police trying touncover crime. And the mere fact that someone issuspected or they may not be suspected -- they may be on alist --QUESTION: The person who's being deceived -- Ijust don't see where there's any spill-over that you can-- you can disassociate the suspect who was being deceivedin order to be caught by the Government and someone whowas under no suspicion of any involvement in anywrongdoing.MR. CORDRAY: We don't think a constitutionalline could be -- could be founded there and maintained. I will say in the case of affirmativemisrepresentations by Government officials or th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC affirmatively misleading statements, there -- there aresome circumstances where they perhaps are justified. There are many circumstances where they would not bejustified, and if they violate a legal duty, there wouldbe legal redress for the violation of the duty. If it'scriminal in nature, there would be -- criminal sanctionscould be imposed upon the perpetrators. There's a freepress and there are political checks. People can losetheir job. They'd be subject to censure. People couldvote them out of office. But it doesn't in our viewconstitute a substantive due process right of access tothe courts or an actual denial of access.QUESTION: Mr. Cordray, one of your -- one ofyour arguments here is essentially a lack of standingargument that -- that there's no remediable harm that'sbeen suffered. Why -- why is that? You say theinjunction -- it's -- it's too speculative whether theinjunction would ever have issued. But what about a delayin -- in getting damages? Why -- why doesn't thatconstitute harm? MR. CORDRAY: A delay in what constitute harm?QUESTION: In obtaining -- in obtaining damages;that is, had she known this information sooner, she couldhave brought suit sooner and would have obtained justicesooner. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. CORDRAY: Again, I don't think that thatfounds -- that that meets the standing requirements. We're -- we're concerned here about the traceability andredressability requirements. And at the end of all ofthis long skein of hypotheticals here is a notion that anAmerican court order would have somehow have prevented theGuatemalan military from executing her husband. QUESTION: Yes, I am not talking about -- I amnot talking about that. I'm talking about the -- I'm justtalking about her ability to get monetary compensation forwhat the Government did. Hasn't that been at leastdelayed? You say she can still get it. But the answer tothat is, yes, well, you know -- but meanwhile, she hasn'tgotten it. MR. CORDRAY: It may have been delayed. Shedoes have tort claims that are now pending in districtcourt, intentional infliction of emotional distress,negligent supervision. Those are proceeding under theFederal Tort Claims Act. And so, again, we -- we wouldsay that she's not been denied access to the courts. She's pursued that access. She is vigorously pursuing it. She's pursued political relief and the like.QUESTION: Is -- are the claims that are nowpending against the individuals or the -- the UnitedStates has substituted itself? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. CORDRAY: The United States has substituteditself under the Federal Tort Claims Act for the purposesof those claims. They're in discovery in the trial court.QUESTION: And what -- they're in discoveryright now? MR. CORDRAY: Yes, they are. That's correct.QUESTION: Would she have had standing if shehad clearly brought or clearly adduced the theory that shewanted an injunction against the officials to prevent theofficials from continuing to pay money to the agents of aforeign government who were torturing her husband, who infact was a -- a foreign national? Would she have hadstanding if she had made that allegation?MR. CORDRAY: I'm not certain, to be honest,Your Honor. It would be very close to the line. QUESTION: Why wouldn't she have had? Let's putit that way. MR. CORDRAY: Well, because -- because therewould be, again, a traceability, redressability problem. If she's simply seeking -- her standing is somehow to saveher husband's life. That's always been the claim assertedto this case --QUESTION: Right, and her -- her allegation isthat they are torturing her husband because the UnitedStates is paying them to do it. And she says, on my th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC hypothetical, I want you to enjoin them from paying moremoney. That -- that -- the -- the causal connection, atleast in the allegation, would have been very clear,wouldn't it?MR. CORDRAY: It would be close to the line. Itwould still depend on third party responses to a courtorder, which this Court has had some --QUESTION: Well, she might or might not havebeen able to prove ultimately, had it gone to trial, thatstopping the money would stop the action of the foreigngovernment. But as a matter of standing to get to trial,she would have had it, wouldn't she? MR. CORDRAY: I frankly think it's like theSimon case where the issue was availability of tax creditor tax relief, and it was thought that that was notsignificant enough to influence clearly the third party'scontract --QUESTION: Well, then your -- well, was it thator was it there was no cause of action? It was --MR. CORDRAY: Well, we think -- we think both.QUESTION: But it seems to me you have to takeher complaint the way -- the way Justice Souter wrote it. I mean, her complaint --(Laughter.) QUESTION: Her complaint is that the only reason th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC they're -- they're torturing is because we're paying themto do that. And if that is the allegation, I -- I thinkthe redressability/causality element is certainly there.MR. CORDRAY: It would be close to the linebecause we're talking about independent decisions by thirdparties in response to a court order would be the issue. That would be the issue. QUESTION: What do you mean third parties?MR. CORDRAY: The third party is the Guatemalanmilitary who, in the end, have to change their conduct.QUESTION: No, no, no. But the injunction isagainst the payment which she says is the only reason theGuatemalan military are doing this. She wants to enjointhe American officials from paying the money which sheasserts is the sole reason they're going through withthis. Why -- why --MR. CORDRAY: But the only claim to standing onher part to enjoin the CIA from doing something would besomehow because it affects her husband's well-being andthe like. So, you have to make that further step that thethird parties are going to be influenced in a positive wayand a decisive way by an American court order, and that'swhere we think it breaks down. But -- but that's a close-to-the-line case in terms of standing.QUESTION: How can you be so cavalier? It's th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC close to the line. You -- you win anyway even if it's onthe other side of the line? MR. CORDRAY: We think that there's not standingunder Simon and Linda R.S., and we think it's even clearerin a foreign military context where we're talking aboutforeign nationals not subject to U.S. jurisdiction, who atthe end of the chain of reasoning, have to alter theirconduct. That's correct. I'd also like to address --QUESTION: May I just ask you another questionbefore you leave the subject? MR. CORDRAY: Sure. QUESTION: Assume, for the sake of argument,that there is standing in that case. Would there havebeen a cause of action alleged? MR. CORDRAY: Here for denial of access to --QUESTION: On my hypothesis. MR. CORDRAY: For denial of access to thecourts?QUESTION: Any cause of action.MR. CORDRAY: By Ms. Harbury for denial ofaccess to the courts. That's the only claim we havebefore this Court --QUESTION: Yes, yes, yes. MR. CORDRAY: Again, it's distant from any th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC allegations of torture or mistreatment of someone. We'reonly talking about denial of access to the courts based onthe alleged --QUESTION: And -- and she said I -- I want to gointo court because I want to press this cause of action. One of your arguments is, well, you've got to get intocourt first, or -- or at least try to get into court. Butanother line of argument is whether you're yet at thecourthouse door or not, you've at least got to have acause of action that you could press if you got there.And my question here is, assume standing, assumeyour second line of argument on access to courts so thatthe issue comes down to whether there would have been anallegation of a cause of action on that hypothesis. Wouldthere have been a cause of action alleged?MR. CORDRAY: We still allege there are manysteps on the standing argument in terms of what kind ofclaims she would have brought. There's -- in the court ofappeals --QUESTION: Okay, but I'm -- I'm saying assumefor the sake of argument that there is standing. Wouldthere have been a cause of action sufficient to supportthe access to courts claim? MR. CORDRAY: Again, in a situation where theclaim is that she did not have timely disclosure of th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC information that would have helped her formulate her causeof action, we do not think that falls within theConstitution. But my --QUESTION: Do you -- do you concede that atleast the claim that there was something unconstitutionalor illegal about paying the -- about our Government payingthe money to a foreign government for this purpose wouldstate a cause of action? MR. CORDRAY: We don't concede that. We don'tthink that that's the case. And again, what we're talkingabout here is disclosure of information necessary toformulate a claim. We don't think that'sconstitutionalized under the substantive due process. If I might reserve the remainder of my time.QUESTION: Very well, Mr. Cordray. General Olson, we'll hear from you. ORAL ARGUMENT OF THEODORE B. OLSONON BEHALF OF THE UNITED STATES,AS AMICUS CURIAE, SUPPORTING THE PETITIONERSMR. OLSON: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it pleasethe Court: years ago in its Glucksberg decision, theCourt urged utmost care in creating new substantive dueprocess rights because doing so removes the matter fromthe arena of public debate and legislative action. That th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC admonition is acutely compelling in the field ofGovernment-to-citizen communication. Respondent's theorywould not only constitutionalize the Freedom ofInformation Act and create a constitutional pre-litigationdiscovery right against the Government, but would alsoaffirmatively discourage an unquantifiable, but immensevolume of valuable informal Government communications thattake place thousands of times every day. As the Courtheld in OPM v. Richmond in , the natural consequenceof a rule imposing liability for Government statementswould be a decision to cut back and impose strict controlsupon Government provision of information. Government officials respond to informalrequests for information every day in -- in an infinitevariety of contexts with infinite -- with an infinitearray of answers, candor, off-the-record disclosures, andoccasional polite evasions. One of the most commonplaceof those governmental responses to requests forinformation is the equivocal and innocuous I will get backto you that forms the core of respondent's constitutionaltheory. Today, the respondent urges that that I will getback to you, when accompanied by an easy to allege andhard to disprove, in the words of this Court, allegationthat such responses were intentionally false for the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC purpose of discouraging a potentially productivelitigation will become the trigger for expensive,burdensome, and distracting personal suits for damagesagainst the offending officials. The -- the consequencewill be a drying up of informal Government-to-citizenexchanges and a regime of no comment or brush-offs orbrusk refusals to discuss, the precise antithesis of theopen Government the Framers of the First Amendmentintended. So, to constitutionalize the responses in aninformal context where the response was not required byany provision of law, no response was required at all, theresponse violated no law or affirmative duty to respond,it promised no specific action or any specific time table-- I will get back to you didn't promise any --QUESTION: Well, the allegation, though, is thatthe response was given in -- with the intent and in orderto prevent a potential lawsuit. At least that's theallegation. MR. OLSON: That is the allegation, and that's aconclusionary information and belief, easy to allege, hardto disprove allegation that can be made in every one ofthese cases. It's easy to imagine an infinite number ofsituations. I think it was Justice Ginsburg that wasasking about the sting operation. The sting is a th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC falsehood that's created by government to accomplish somelaw enforcement objective, but if it's a false storefrontor something like that, it's a falsehood to a lot ofdifferent people. There are lots of different situations where theGovernment quite legitimately may have reasons to givefalse information out. We're not defending all thecircumstances in which that might occur because there areduties and responsibilities and statutes that are imposedfor that sort of thing. But to constitutionalize thissubject would just put this broad blanket of inhibitionover the whole disclosure of -- this was an informal oralcommunication. It wasn't a written communication. Itwasn't where writing was occurred. She had at any time -- the respondent had at anytime the opportunity and right to bring an action under --to -- to bring a request and then an action under theFreedom of Information Act, which is Congress' carefullystructured regime for receiving information from theGovernment. If she had received an evasive ornonresponsive answer in connection with the Freedom ofInformation Act, that would have been remedied or remedialin a court under the strictures that Congress carefullydeveloped and this Court has implemented over the years. There's -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: General --QUESTION: Well, do you say there should be anexhaustion requirement? You have to at least go with aFOIA request? MR. OLSON: Well, Justice O'Connor, even if shehad gone -- well, she -- if she -- I wouldn't put it asexhaustion. What I'm suggesting is that because there isthis regime in place already, there are other ways to getinformation from the Government. There -- there couldhave been a lawsuit brought at any time, although thiswould have been very, very remote, this lawsuit. And --and the answers to questions could have been policed by acourt. We're not suggesting that there's necessary anexhaustion requirement, but that to constitutionalizethese exchanges and to create remedies for damages underthese circumstances, when the legislature has developed aninfinite -- I mean, not an infinite, but a substantialarray of opportunities to both obtain information and topolice the type of information that's obtained, if aGovernment official lies, there may be certaincircumstances where they are subject to discipline.There -- there may be -- and we're talking aboutall levels of government, State, local, and the NationalGovernment. There may be remedies that are available. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Many of the cases cited by the plaintiff were violationsof underlying provisions of law. There was manufacturingof evidence in some of those cases. What we're saying is that there are ways to dealwith Government-to-citizen communications that don't havethe --QUESTION: What -- what do you do, Mr. Olson,with the circuit court cases which have held under aviolation of the right of access to courts when there's acoverup of a -- of a police murderer or something of thatsort? MR. OLSON: Well, precisely. QUESTION: Is there a right of access to courtsin your view in those cases? MR. OLSON: We believe that there is not. Webelieve that in each of those cases, there werecircumstances where there were other rights that wereviolated, and that to take the step that those courtstook, to the extent that they go beyond the violation ofother underlying rights, would create this very problemthat the Court urged caution about. The consequence couldbe the drying up of information. The creation of an additional right in thoseareas is problematical in the first place in terms of whatit would accomplish beyond the rights that are already in th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC existence. And the down side consequence to theConstitution, to the regular exchange of information, andthe limitation, as this Court said in Glucksberg --QUESTION: I suppose -- I suppose that theycould allege that the drying up of information was alsodone in order to prevent them from bringing a lawsuit,that is, if you say no comment. MR. OLSON: Well, they --QUESTION: They could allege the only reason yousaid no comment was you didn't want to give theinformation. MR. OLSON: Of course. As a matter of -- as amatter of fact, Justice Scalia, what they did say is that-- and this is on page of the transcript in the oralargument, and there is something similar in the -- in thebrief, that they had -- that they -- we can't get back toyou or we're not able to respond to you -- they suggestedthat that would be a perfectly constitutional response, oras you say, a no comment would be a perfectlyconstitutional response. That could have been a lie too. We can't -- I'm sorry we can't get back to you. Well, infact, they could get back under the theory pleaded in thecomplaint. So, that would have been a lie too. It illustrates the slipperiness of the slopethat the respondent's theory would ask the Court to embark th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC upon. Any of those infinite varieties of exchangesunder --lie. lie. QUESTION: I don't see how no comment could be aMR. OLSON: Pardon me? QUESTION: I don't see how no comment could be aMR. OLSON: No comment might not be a lie,Justice Stevens, but -- but the -- the respondentspecifically says it would have been constitutional to sayI cannot get back to you, or if there is information,we're not in a position to give it to you. There are --that's -- those specific things that are in the briefitself and in the transcript of the oral argument couldeasily be lies as well, and they could easily becharacterized as lies. QUESTION: Is it your position, just to be sure,that the refusal to give information can never be a denialof access to the courts?MR. OLSON: I -- I hesitate ever to say anythingof that sort. There are circumstances when it conceivablycould. There could be legal duties triggering arequirement. In the habeas situation that one of theJustices asked about, there are rights of the individualwhich may be asserted by -- under appropriate next-friend th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC standing, but it's the rights of the individual incustody.QUESTION: Well, withholding could give rise totolling of the statute of limitations. MR. OLSON: Absolutely, and that's anothersituation, Justice -- Chief Justice Rehnquist, in which ifsomething is delayed -- and I think Justice Scalia askedthat question. There's a tolling remedy. There'sadditional damages because of the delay. There areremedies in virtually all of these circumstances. One last point, if I still have time, is thatthe causation, the actual harm element of this so-calledcause of action, is extraordinarily remote. Therespondent is taking the position that if the Governmenthad just answered constitutionally by saying no comment,somehow she might have filed a Freedom of Informationcase. It might have been in time. It might have been intime then for her to file some sort of justiciable,nonfrivolous cause of action, which she doesn't reallyever fully identify except calling it some sort ofinjunction, and that that sort of injunction would havecaused a court somehow to provide the opportunity to savethe individual's life that she was attempting to save. That all is extraordinarily remote when -- when compoundedwith the various aspects of the elusive nature of the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC right being articulated here, the elusive nature of theremedy that could be -- possibly be given and the damagethat constitutionalizing this right would create. Wesubmit that this a course that this Court should not andwould not under its precedents want to go. QUESTION: Thank you, General Olson. Mr. Harbury, we'll hear from you.ORAL ARGUMENT OF JENNIFER K. HARBURYON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTMS. HARBURY: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court:This case turns upon a very narrow question oflaw, specifically the United States officials takeaffirmative and wrongful action to deceive a citizen,number one, with the intention of obstructing her orpreventing her from proceeding to the courts of law foremergency injunctive relief, and where such affirmativeand wrongful conduct and actions of deceit not only delaythe filing of that case, but in fact extinguish the causeof action, and when it is known at the time that herhusband is in a secret cell being severely tortured andthat he is in danger of imminent extrajudicial execution. Ironically I note that today this case is in the highestCourt of the land, but it is exactly years and daystoo late. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Given the importance of a number of the pointsthat have been made today, I would like to start with afew clarifications. Number one, I'm not arguing here that thepetitioners simply were negligent or did not get back tome on time or that they had some duty, when days aftermy husband's capture, they learned that he was beingtortured and secretly detained. I'm not say that they hada duty to locate me, to knock on my door, and inform --and inform me of his situation. I'm saying that they could not take wrongful andaffirmative steps, once I went to them, to deceive me, totell me that there was no information when, in fact, theyhad numerous bulletins from the CIA telling them that hewas captured alive, that he was undergoing torture, thatthey were falsifying his death, and when I was speakingwith them, that he was still alive and could, in fact,have been saved. Number two, I am not alleging here that the --that the Government officials should have given mesensitive national security information. I'm allegingthat they covered up information that was not sensitive,that our own Government has since decided did notconstitute state secrets and could have been given to meinitially, and that that nonsensitive information had all th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC the details I needed in to approach the courts of lawfor an emergency injunctive to -- injunction to --QUESTION: Ms. Harbury, may I ask you --QUESTION: If -- if this were a -- if this werea private cause of -- of action without governmentalactors, it would be just a tort of deceit, I -- I take it.MS. HARBURY: The tort of --QUESTION: Like a tortious action for deceit ifthese were all private actors. We'll leave the Governmentout of it. And it seems to me that what you're trying todo is to make up for the absence of a tort of deceit underthe Federal Tort Claims Act by creating a constitutionalright. Is that what's -- is that what's happening herestructurally so far as your argument is concerned? MS. HARBURY: No, Your Honor. I'm alleging thatany kind of affirmative and wrongful conduct by a stateofficial, when the objective and, in fact, the result isto prevent the filing of a lawsuit, access to courts, then-- then a constitutional right has been violated. QUESTION: I'm suggesting to you that the onlyreason you -- you must say that is because if you followedthe usual course of the law and file an action for deceit,you'd be barred under the Federal Tort Claims Act. Thatis correct, is it not?MS. HARBURY: I believe the Federal Tort Claims th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Act could not have been triggered in the case when one wasonly asking for injunctive relief, Your Honor. QUESTION: In -- in the context of a privateperson, under the law of torts, there is an action fordeceit based on the facts that you've -- that you'vediscussed, is there not? MS. HARBURY: Yes, there is. QUESTION: All right. And the reason that youhave to show an access -- right of access to court isbecause, under the Federal Tort Claims Act, you can't suefor deceit. I mean, that's -- that's where we -- that'sthe beginning point here. Isn't that right? MS. HARBURY: I could not sued for deceit underthe Federal Tort Claims Act. That is correct, Your Honor,but that action, even if I could file it under the FederalTort Claims Act, would not be focused on the wrong and theinjury that I am alleging here. I'm saying that my day incourt, when I could have saved my husband's life, has beenextinguished wrongfully on the basis of a violation ofstandard -- of standard duties of conduct.QUESTION: Ms. Harbury, on that centralquestion, an issue kept coming up repeatedly in the D.C.Circuit during your argument there, and the court asked,access to court, access to do what? Now, the -- they rejected your claim that there th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC was a Fifth Amendment right, a substantive right,involving the Government's participation in -- in thetorture abroad. They rejected your argument about afamilial relationship. So, what I don't understand atthis point is rejecting your claims, your substantiveclaims, of a wrong to yourself, wrongful conduct engagedin by the United States, access to court for what? If youhave no Fifth Amendment claim, what is there? What claimcould you state?MS. HARBURY: All of the claims that I wouldhave stated, Your Honor, would have been rooted in thecontext that in the absence of extraordinarycircumstances, as in Guatemala in and ', the use oftorture, the causation and participation in torture byUnited States officials, was completely outside of thescope of their delegated authorities and, in thealternative, in violation of their own regulations andsubject to review under the APA for emergency injunctiverelief. That core concept would, in turn, have allowed meto sue for conspiracy to end aiding and abetting, assaultand battery in his case, emotional distress in my case,intentional refusal to supervise independent contractors.And I would still assert that although myfamilial rights have not been recognized in the Bivenscontext for a number of good reasons, because there's no th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC easy way to draw the line in damages in that context, buthad I gone to a court of law and said, this is my family,I have the right to choose our medical care, I have theright to choose whether or not together we will havechildren and how we will raise them and which church weshall worship at and what professions we shall exercise,the most fundamental right of all that I would havepresented seeking injunctive relief is that I have a rightto defend my family from wrongful outside actions,especially when they're taken by the state. I would havebrought all of those issues before the courts of law andasked for emergency assistance.QUESTION: At bottom, in this case you'reclaiming damages now. Is that not correct? MS. HARBURY: There are some tort claims issuesstill in the district court, yes, Your Honor, but thosecannot make good the lost day in court to save a humanlife. QUESTION: No, but -- but what's running throughmy mind is the -- there's a long chain of causation here,and if -- if one were persuaded -- and I'm not saying Iam, but if one were persuaded that even if you had all thehelp that you sought at the time you did, there stillwould not have been time to save your husband's life. Andtherefore, the ultimate damage would -- would have been th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC suffered anyway. Would you be entitled to prevail? MS. HARBURY: If the question where there was notime to save my husband's life? QUESTION: Correct. MS. HARBURY: I would certainly want to bring mywitnesses and my evidence to a factual hearing on exactlythat subject, Your Honor, because I believe there was atleast months if not, under more recent information, ayear or a year-and-a-half during which I could have savedmy husband's life. But under the allegations in thecomplaint, months. And that any court faced withtorture and the possibility that someone tomorrow may beliterally thrown from a helicopter, I do not believe thatany court in this country could not have acted swiftly toredress that situation. QUESTION: In -- in this case, Ms. Harbury, youare seeking money damages, are you not? MS. HARBURY: I am, Your Honor. Money damagesrelated to other harm which was incurred, not theequivalent of the day in court to save my husband's life,which has been extinguished. There is no -- there is noway that I can now recover that day. So, the damagesclaims in the lower court are on peripheral injuries.QUESTION: You began by telling us that this isa very narrow remedy that you seek. I have trouble with th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC that. The Solicitor General tells us that theconsequences of your theory are that for innumerable smallmatters, which involve access to courts, the Government isgoing to be sued all of the time. And as you know, whenthe law evolves and we decide cases, we -- we, of course,look to the egregious nature of the conduct in aparticular case, but we also have to look at what we'recreating as a general rule. And the Government says as ageneral rule what you're asking for is a sweeping,revolutionary cause of action. MS. HARBURY: Yes, Your Honor. I think that inthis case that is not a true concern. If I may elaborateon that. Number one, the circuit courts that have dealtwith the issue of access to the courts in the context of aGovernment coverup have created a solution that would sofilter out most cases that there would not be a flood gateeffect. Specifically, just delaying a case, as opposed toextinguishing that actual cause of action, as in thiscase, will not be a harm that in itself, without furtherdamage, is going to be actionable as a constitutionalviolation for denial of access. So, in the vast majorityof cases, where an official makes a neutral statement,there's not going to be any damage done that the factfinder or the judge in the district court is not going to th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC be able to remedy with his panoply of equitable tools. The second filter, though, is that there musthave been harmful and affirmative and wrongful conductaimed at obstructing the access to the courts, blockingthat person from going to the courts of law. That meansthat in the context of deceit, which is presented here,that the statements have to have been intentionallydeceptive, not just words of courtesy which would be --QUESTION: When -- when you say wrongful, Ms.Harbury, you don't mean in violation of any particularstatute. You mean something broader than that, don't you?MS. HARBURY: In this case it would be a commonlaw -- common law tort, Your Honor, to commit intentionaldeceit where the person making the deceptive statements isfully aware and intends that a reasonable person will relyon that statement to their detriment. QUESTION: The Secretary of State is liable forthe common law tort of deceit under those circumstances iswhat you're saying. MS. HARBURY: I'm saying that where the commonlaw tort of deceit is the wrongful act which was taken inorder to block access to the courts of law, then itbecomes a constitutional tort. The simple act ofdeception I doubt would be actionable in most cases,especially when the words were simply courtesy words and a th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC reasonable person, hearing some -- one statement, forexample, that oh, we're very concerned, a reasonableperson would probably not rely on that statement to meanmore than we'll write a letter of inquiry for you. But what is set out in this case, what isalleged in this case is that there was an array ofstatements made by numerous persons in the StateDepartment and other agencies which were intended andwhich did give a number of false impressions and falseunderstandings, specifically that the United States had noinformation at all about what was happening with myhusband. In fact, they knew that the CIA was deeplyinvolved. They knew within days of his capture thatthey were falsifying his death and planned to torture himfor his information. QUESTION: Ms. Harbury, from the time you did --you did get information from the Government ultimatelywhen you brought your Freedom of Information Act suit. From the time you made your request under FOIA until youreceived that information, how much time elapsed? MS. HARBURY: I made the FOIA request in Januaryof '. A number of disclosures were made by Governmentofficials in March, and in the ensuing uproar, I thenbegan to get some preliminary documentation later thatfall. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC The reason that I filed my FOIA, for purposes ofclarification here, in January is that the Minutesbroadcast, for the first time ever, had indicated to methat the U.S. officials were deceiving me, that theyweren't --QUESTION: My -- my point is your -- your theoryis, if I hadn't been lulled into the sense that theGovernment was my friend, I would have immediately filed aFOIA request and I would have gotten this information intime to seek this injunction. But in fact, if it takes --there was a -month interval from March until September,assuming that September was the date of execution. If theFOIA lawsuit would have taken more than months toprocess, then you would not have found out anything intime to bring this injunction action.MS. HARBURY: Under those conditions, YourHonor, knowing or believing that my husband could stillwell be alive and being subjected to torture, I would havebeen in court immediately for a TRO for expedited handlingof that case. The reason I didn't do so in ' is becauseI learned that my husband was dead. There was no longerany reason to go for an emergency injunctive relief.QUESTION: Do you know of FOIA cases that havebeen handled that way with a TRO? Or you're saying thatthis is a unique situation? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MS. HARBURY: Your Honor, I believe the FOIAitself makes provisions for expedited handling wherenecessary, and I believe that any Federal district court,using their rights and their equitable remedies foremergency situations, could have ordered the emergencyprocessing. And in fact, those documents were not sealedaway in remote files. They were being reviewed, activelyreviewed, by many of the petitioners as those events wereunfurling. QUESTION: Well, would they? That's -- I mean,obviously reading your story, one is immediatelysympathetic, and it's a very sad and difficult. Iunderstand that. And suppose you were in court and the courtmight think there are other people with similar stories,and indeed, foreign nationals are quite often perhaps,from what one reads in the paper, subject to very badtreatment at the hands of other foreign nationals. Andour Government supports some of those and because we must,according to what they say. Well, how is a court supposed to know whether,when you have the CIA, when you have one group of foreignnationals hurting another group of foreign nationals, whenthere's egregious behavior throughout the world and wehave to support some -- how in your view can we th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC distinguish this case from the general problem of foreignrelations, from the general problem of the CIA, fromthings that courts by and large don't go into? MS. HARBURY: If I may. I'm not sure if I'munderstanding your question, Your Honor. QUESTION: Well, I'm really trying to workgetting you to address what I would see as a majorimplication, which is not at all casting doubt on -- onthe sympathy with which an individual might have, butrather the problem of conducting foreign affairs, whichwe're told by the Government requires courts to stay outof certain things and your thing is in that category thatthey say stay out of. And I'd like you to say what youwant about that. MS. HARBURY: We're -- there are, of course --there is, of course, here a case within a case. There'sthe claims I would have brought and there's this casefor --QUESTION: No, no. I'm thinking of the casewithin the case because, after all, you have to have had aclaim that a judge would have gone and addressed,otherwise the blocking you from that wouldn't havemattered.MS. HARBURY: Yes, Your Honor. In , theclaims for emergency injunctive I would have brought, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC although as in the redistricting cases, it's not that theydon't touch on a political question, or in this case aforeign affairs question, but they would have not requiredthe court to interfere with ongoing formation of foreignaffairs. We would not, for example, have been asking thatthe courts of law determine whether or not our military orour CIA should be present in Guatemala or what ourrelationships with the Guatemalan military, which waslater deemed by the United Nations to have engaged ingenocide against the Mayan peasants during the war. Thecourt would not have been required or even asked to dealwith any of those issues. There would have been a very limited questionpresented, which is may the CIA, in the absence of anyextraordinary circumstances such as war or imminentnational security crisis, in the absence of any of thoseconditions, may they request and pay for information theyknow is being contemporaneously extracted through the useof extreme torture and refuse to, in any way, instruct orsupervise their own contractors and, in addition, shieldthose very assets, or informants in this case, fromCongress which was trying at that time to force theGuatemalan military to better respect human rights.In fact, our foreign affairs policy at that timewas to promote human rights in Guatemala where the army th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC was quickly becoming an international pariah for a numberof very good reasons. And these actions of rogueoperators with respect to the peace process, in respect --and with respect to promotion of human rights wereundercutting the foreign affairs. This Court, by taking-- or the court in the United States, by taking action in, would simply have settled whether or not the CIA maypay for torture in the absence of any extraordinarycircumstances. QUESTION: May I -- your answer raises thisquestion in my mind. If you say you're the trial judge in with the complaint coming in and you think you'reright, you should get relief, do you think the relief thatwould have been ordered by the -- the proper relief atthat time would have been simply an order not to pay anymore money to the Guatemalan people, or would it have beenbroader relief covering all the matters you've discussed? MS. HARBURY: I would have asked in forthree steps to have been taken by the CIA through --through an injunctive -- through an injunction by thecourts. Number one, which -- would be the obvious. Please don't ask for more information and promise to payfor it, especially when those payments are often to times more than the annual national salary in Guatemala. And number two -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: Well, let's get the first one. Whatwould the first have been? An order -- tell me again. What -- what would the injunction say on that first point?MS. HARBURY: The first point of the injunctionwould have been to prohibit CIA officials from requestingand promising payment for and making payment for continuedinformation contemporaneously being extracted through theuse of torture from a living prisoner. That would havebeen point one. QUESTION: Okay. MS. HARBURY: Point two would have been theseare your employees. You may not refuse to engage in anyproper supervision of them. You must at least sit downand talk to them and indicate to them what the parametersof human rights law are and international law. And number three, you may not shield thesepeople from the wrath of the United States Congress. Youare supposed to report those matters to Congress. QUESTION: And you say shield those people. Which people? Shield the members of the CIA or the peoplewho are doing the -- the interrogating?MS. HARBURY: The CIA was not properly reportingmy husband's situation to Congress at the time, and thepetitioners in this case were repeatedly writing toCongress saying there is no information about Mr. Bamaca th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC at all. The same statements that were being made to mewere being made to everyone else. We have no information. There was so much information appropriate fordeclassification that I could have been inside of a courtwithin hours. With regards to torture, I would like to borrowtwo sentences from Patrick Henry, which I find very, veryappropriate today. The issue of the times was with recentmemory of war on our territory and the scars and thetrauma that that had left. There was an ongoing debate inCongress as to whether or not sometimes U.S. officialsshould be allowed to commit torture. His statement: whathas distinguished our ancestors was that they would notpermit torture or cruel or barbaric treatment. Congressmay tell you that there is a necessity of strengtheningthe arm of the Government, but if we do so, we are thenlost and undone. This is the bright line our Government hasalways taken, all branches of this Government. The CIAwas established in aftermath and horror that went withwhat happened in World War II, the Holocaust in Europe,the war crimes that occurred in the South Pacific. Treatment of prisoners of war came up again and again inIn re Yamashita. It's mentioned again in Johnson --QUESTION: Well, I mean, that's clearly true. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC What in your opinion should the CIA do if it discoversthat other people not in the CIA are engaged in this?MS. HARBURY: Questions that I would leave toCongress and that are not raised in this case would be may-- may a CIA agent purchase information from someone knownto be an unsavory character. That's not presented here.The question in -- that's presented here, thefacts that are presented here is when you have anextremely close and supervisory relationship with a giveninformant for years, you know that they are -- they arenotorious as a torturer and that, in fact, they wereengaged in a liquidation campaign against civilians, andyou say, we want more information from the living prisonerin that room, you have the cattle prod and the pliers,here's a check for several times -- maybe or timesyour annual income -- would you please get thatinformation for us, that is crossing the line. That'scrossing a very bright line that our Government has neverpermitted. Our Government has allowed under certaincircumstances to take life, never to torture.QUESTION: Well, and I assume that -- that wouldhave been part of your -- of your lawsuit, that you wouldhave had to establish that it is either what? A violationof a Federal statute or of the Constitution to -- topermit torture. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MS. HARBURY: I -- I would be saying thatcarrying out torture was outside the scope of anystatutory delegation of power to the CIA or in violationof its own internal policies and regulations. QUESTION: You're relying on the statutes orlack of statutory authority to do it. MS. HARBURY: Or in the alternative, violationof any -- any internal regulations they might have forextraordinary circumstances. QUESTION: But you couldn't make it in violationof the Constitution because the D.C. Circuit threw thatout. There's something just unseemly about your saying itviolated a regulation to torture someone abroad, but it --I have to accept for purposes of this case that it didn'tviolate the U.S. Constitution. MS. HARBURY: Leaving that issue aside, itcertainly violated any authority ever delegated byCongress to any person, any official in this country toengage in torture. It has never -- no authority has everbeen delegated at that level to any official, not evenfrom the time of our Founding Fathers right up through thepresent when we've only recently continued to sign on tointernational treaties prohibiting torture of a humanbeing. QUESTION: You make a -- a statement that the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC United States could have raised a national securitydefense, but it didn't choose to do that. What -- what doyou envision to be the nature of that defense?MS. HARBURY: If the petitioners wished topresent to the district court an affirmative defense inthe answer, which has, of course, not yet been filed --we're still at the motion to dismiss stage -- stating thatsomehow there were overriding national security interestswhich forced them or justified their actions in this case,that -- that met the strict scrutiny test of a fundamentalright such as access to the courts, if they wish to makethat statement and try to provide that evidence, then Iwould wish to come to the courts of law and provide myevidence of pretext that that -- those extraordinarycircumstances of national security did not at all exist inGuatemala during this relevant time period. And it wouldbe, of course, for the judge to decide that issue.Even giving great deference to the Governmentposition, I believe that I have evidence that wouldclearly establish that any such assertion was pretextual. QUESTION: Well, you're not talking then about aReynolds defense on the part of the Government where you-- where there is no evidence to presented. You'retalking about something else? MS. HARBURY: I'm saying -- I'm trying to th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC conjecture what the petitioners might raise because theyhaven't raised it yet. But the court below, the appellatecourt, left open that if in their answer they wished topresent a claim of national security as an affirmativedefense, which they have not raised to date, they're freeto do so. And I'm free to answer.Lastly I -- I don't believe that the -- the claim would have raised any -- any undue effect orimpact on our Government officials in any way. They cancontinue to make courtesy statements. They can continueto give the Glomar denial, which would have given me fairnotice that documents might exist in their files. Instead, I was told there's nothing in this file. Maybeyou should look elsewhere. So, I did. I went toGuatemala and looked in the files of the Guatemalanmilitary, which was of itself a less than charmingexperience. And I do believe that it's very important thatwe remember that even in such cases as the conduct of ourmilitary affairs in the Chappell case, for example, or inU.S. v. Stanley, although enormous latitude is given toour officials and we have decided not to engage or toprovide Bivens remedies under those contexts, in all ofthose contexts, it has been noted that equitable reliefwould still be correct and adequate. So, I believe that th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC my right in to move forward and obtain equitablerelief is without question. Lastly, addressing the issue of -- of qualifiedimmunity for the petitioners here, the issue of access tothe courts is not a newfangled cause of action. It wasstated long ago in Chambers v. the Baltimore & OhioRailway that that right is fundamental. That right is thealternative of force. In an organized society, it is theright conservative of all other rights and lies at thefoundation --QUESTION: That was a full faith and creditcase, was it not? The -- it wasn't an express right ofaccess to courts claimed as a right under the UnitedStates Constitution. MS. HARBURY: I believe in that case thequestion was the denial of the right of citizens fromanother State, in Ohio, to actually file suit, and similarto In re Hull, it was interpreted as barring thecourthouse door. QUESTION: But it was decided not under somesubstantive constitutional principle, but under the -- thefull faith and credit or Interstate Commerce Clause, wasit not? MS. HARBURY: That's correct. But the Court, indiscussing those issues, noted the fundamental importance th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC of the access to courts and the equal access to courts ofall citizens. I believe that it was clear enough and veryclearly established in all of the other circuit cases andin the long line of cases, due process and access tocourts that this Court has always given, that the rightsthat I had in as in today were very clearlyestablished. The Government cannot take wrongful andaffirmative steps, in this case intentional deceit,knowing that a person will reasonably rely to theirdetriment on those statements, in order to prevent themfrom going to the courts of law and in order to obstructand thwart their ability to investigate their own case andgather their own information. When those affirmative and wrongful steps aretaken, whether it be locking a packet of evidence in adesk drawer or locking crucial information in a filecabinet and telling the person that there is none, whenthe Government acts to conceal information and takeswrongful steps as opposed to simply passively standing byor stating no comment, and the harm occurs as planned, andthe case is not simply delayed but destroyed, in that caseI think that it has been clear since Baltimore and sinceIn re Hull and since --QUESTION: Thank you -- thank you, Ms. Harbury. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MS. HARBURY: Thank you, Your Honor. QUESTION: Mr. Cordray, you have minutesremaining. REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF RICHARD A. CORDRAYON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERSMR. CORDRAY: Thank you, Your Honor. At a minimum, the extent of legitimate debatetoday should resolve the qualified immunity issue in thiscase. There have been allegations made about torture,about atrocious treatment of individuals in foreigncountries. It has occurred throughout this century. But before the Court today is a one particularclaim, that by saying we'll investigate and keep youinformed, Government officials denied a substantive dueprocess right of access to courts asserted by respondenthere. There is no allegation in this complaint, if youlook at pages to of our yellow brief, which fairlyrestates the -- the pertinent allegations of thiscomplaint, that these people were told there was nothingin the file. Instead, the claim was that they said we'llinvestigate the matter. We'll keep you informed, and thatperhaps that was intentionally misleading. That's --that's the allegations here. That's all the allegationshere. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC I would also say that in terms of this chain ofcausation, the allegation is that at the end of the chain,Guatemalan military, who allegedly were torturing andholding rebels in the midst of a civil war, were going torefrain from conduct because payments might have beenwithheld by the United States -- that's extremelyspeculative. It's as speculative or more so than Simonand Linda R.S.And finally, I would say that, again, we aredistant here from any allegations of torture. Theallegations are that our clients perhaps mishandledinformal channels of communication about information thatcould have been provided that they may or may not haveactually had, and -- and we think that that's just verydistant from the facts that are actually alleged in thecomplaint in this case. Maximizing a particular remedy, which is what'sbeing sought here, does not equal barring a cause ofaction, and there is no legitimate constitutional claim wethink that the Court could recognize based on itsprecedents. If there are no questions, thank you very much. CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: Thank you, Mr.Cordray.The case is submitted. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC (Whereupon, at : a.m., the case in theabove-entitled matter was submitted.) th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC 