 IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XUNITED STATES, Petitioner :: v. : No. - CHRISTOPHER DRAYTON AND CLIFTON BROWN, JR. : : - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XWashington, D.C.Tuesday, April , The above-entitled matter came on for oralargument before the Supreme Court of the United States at: a.m.APPEARANCES:LARRY D. THOMPSON, ESQ., Deputy Solicitor General,Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on behalfof the Petitioner.GWENDOLYN SPIVEY, ESQ., Assistant Federal Public Defender,Tallahassee, Florida; on behalf of the Respondents. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC C O N T E N T SORAL ARGUMENT OF LARRY D. THOMPSON, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioner GWENDOLYN SPIVEY, ESQ.On behalf of the Respondents REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OFLARRY D. THOMPSON, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioner PAGE th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC P R O C E E D I N G S(: a.m.)CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: We'll hear argumentnow in No. -, the United States v. ChristopherDrayton and Clifton Brown.Mr. Thompson.ORAL ARGUMENT OF LARRY D. THOMPSONON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERMR. THOMPSON: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court:This Court has held in several decisions thatthe police questioning of individuals is a legitimate and,indeed, vital law enforcement technique. The decisionbelow ignores this Court's teachings as to when a police-citizen encounter on a bus may violate the FourthAmendment and may constitute the seizure of the passenger.Police-citizen encounters have proven to beeffective law enforcement techniques in the area of drugand weapon interdiction. These encounters are alsoimportant in today's environment with respect to theprotection of passengers in the Nation's publictransportation system. This case is controlled by this Court's decisionin Bostick and the court below incorrectly applied theBostick test to these facts. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: Mr. Thompson, isn't it so that inBostick the police did inform the passengers that they hada right to refuse consent?MR. THOMPSON: That is correct, Your Honor, butalso in Bostick this Court clearly pointed out, on remandto the Florida Supreme Court, the factors that the Courtshould evaluate in terms of determining whether or not theencounter was coercive or otherwise inappropriate. Andtwo of those factors are important here that would putinto context what the court below considered. For example, this Court pointed out to theFlorida Supreme Court whether or not there were gunspointed and noted that there were no guns pointed in a --in the Bostick case. This Court also pointed out to theFlorida Supreme Court that -- whether or not there was theexistence of threatening language, and none of thatexisted in the case below. QUESTION: Well, I -- I suppose that the advicethat you have a right to decline the request applies --and I -- I take it you could read Bostick this way;perhaps you disagree -- to whether or not the -- theconsent was actually given as opposed to whether there wasa coercive environment. MR. THOMPSON: That's correct, Your Honor, andas the Bostick Court pointed out with respect to the test th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC to be applied is whether or not, under all thecircumstances, the police conduct communicated to areasonable person -- and that presupposes a reasonably --a reasonable innocent person -- whether or not thepassenger could have refused the officer's request toconsent or otherwise have terminated the -- terminated theencounter.There is really nothing remarkable about thefacts of this case when you look at this Court's decisionin Bostick and compare Bostick with this Court's decisionin Robinette which clearly pointed --QUESTION: My question, Mr. Thompson, was youropening statement was that the Eleventh Circuit had ruledin direct conflict with this Court's precedent. If we'reapplying a totality of the circumstances test, that's onecircumstance that was present there, is not present here. So, whether the Eleventh Circuit erred is for us todetermine today, but I do think it's a bit much to saythat they -- they just disregarded this Court's precedent.MR. THOMPSON: Your Honor, the Eleventh Circuitconsidered factors that were unlike the factors that thisCourt in Bostick believed were important in determiningwhether the police conduct at issue was coercive. Andmoreover, Your Honor, the Eleventh Circuit incorrectlyapplied the legal principles that this Court formulated th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC with respect to the facts of this case. For example, the Eleventh Circuit noted theimportance of Officer Hoover at the front of the bus andpointed out that his presence might lead a -- a passengerto believe that he or she could not leave the bus. Well,this Court in Bostick clearly pointed out that the -- in a-- in the context of a bus interdiction effort, whether ornot the passenger could leave the bus was the wrongquestion. The question was whether or not the passenger-- whether or not the police conduct communicated to thepassenger whether or not they could refuse the consentrequested or whether or not they could just terminate thequestioning of the police officer.QUESTION: Well, it's -- it's true that the --the issue of whether someone could leave the bus or not is-- is not really an issue that -- that focuses thequestion, and we said so in Bostick. But it doesn'tfollow from that that it was irrelevant in Bostick or thatit's irrelevant here that there was an officer stationedat the front of the bus. If we're going to have atotality of the circumstances test, wouldn't you agreethat that is one relevant fact to consider in trying toreconstruct the atmosphere and decide whether or not itsignaled to the -- to the person searched the -- thepossibility of just ending the encounter? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. THOMPSON: Yes, Your Honor. That -- it isone relevant fact to be taken into consideration with theother factors, but here the officer stationed at the frontof the bus -- at the front of the bus really did notcommunicate, nor did Officer Lang who was doing thequestioning -- did not communicate that -- to anypassenger that he or she could not terminate thequestioning. QUESTION: He did -- nobody said, you can'tleave the bus. But isn't it a fact that a passenger wouldtake into some consideration that there was an officerstationed at the front of the bus?MR. THOMPSON: Your Honor --QUESTION: He wasn't keeping people out,apparently.MR. THOMPSON: Excuse me. QUESTION: It's -- it's a relevant fact indetermining the coerciveness of the atmosphere, is it not?MR. THOMPSON: Your Honor, not in this case. The court below and the Eleventh Circuit acknowledged in-- in their findings, if you will, that the -- the aislewas not blocked, the exit was not blocked. In fact,every --QUESTION: Let me -- let me try a -- a differentsuggestion. The fact that the officer at the front of the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC bus was kneeling in the driver's seat was one graphicreminder of another fact in this case, and that is, thatthe driver was gone. The driver had left the bus. Theonly people exercising any kind of official capacity inthat bus were three police officers. One of them wasoccupying the driver's seat. Isn't that a signal thatnobody is going to be going anywhere on this bus? Thisbus isn't going to be going anywhere until the officersare satisfied. Now, that may or may not be dispositive ofanything, but it is a relevant fact on the question ofcoercion and voluntariness. Isn't it? MR. THOMPSON: Your Honor, the presence of theofficer at the front of the bus is a factor, but in thecontext of these facts and if -- in the context of thisCourt's decision in Delgado where you had armed agentssurrounding the factory, and this Court held that simplybecause the factory workers could not leave withoutpassing those agents --QUESTION: I agree with you. You're -- you'reabsolutely right there. The -- the point that I'm makingis that you can't go through this kind of analysis andsay, well, this fact is irrelevant. This shouldn't havebeen considered by the court. That fact was irrelevant. That shouldn't have been considered. It was a relevant th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC fact. What it all adds up to, as you suggest by theDelgado reference, is a different question, but it's arelevant fact, isn't it?MR. THOMPSON: It's a relevant fact, but thefactors to be considered and the factors that this Courtclearly announced in -- in the Bostick case were factorsthat were threatening, factors that were otherwisecoercive, like pointing a gun. In this particular case,Your Honor, the Eleventh Circuit even noted that there wasno evidence that any of the passengers saw that thisofficer was armed. The officers were --QUESTION: Mr. Thompson, did they know that hewas an officer? Was it clear that he was an officer?MR. THOMPSON: The officer was conductingindividual passenger-specific questioning. QUESTION: The -- the other two officers were Iknow, but was there -- was it clear that the personkneeling in the driver's seat was an officer? MR. THOMPSON: He was casually dressed, YourHonor, and it's not clear from the record as to whether ornot he was a police officer.QUESTION: Did he have his badge? The other twoshowed their badges. Did the one in the front show --MR. THOMPSON: I don't believe the record isclear as to where the badge was located with respect to th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC the officer at the front of the bus. QUESTION: Did he enter with the other two?MR. THOMPSON: Yes. They all entered aspassengers, all casually dressed. And with respect to the conduct of this -- ofthis search --QUESTION: Well, I mean, I -- what -- I don'tknow what that -- why should that make a difference. Ifsomebody shows me a badge and he's casually dressed, Iknow he's got a gun, or he's going to be fired. Anofficer is fired if he doesn't carry his gun. Everybodyknows that.Let me -- let me ask you this. Would it beappropriate in your view for this Court to write anopinion in which we say that citizens have certainobligations to know their rights and to assert theirrights? That's what makes for a strong democracy. Thelaw lives in the consciousness of the people. And peoplehave a certain obligation to assert their rights. If theydon't want to be searched, they say I don't want to besearched. Should we write that in an opinion? MR. THOMPSON: Well, that follows on with the --the clear test that this Court announced in Bostick, andthe test was, Your Honor, whether or not the policeconduct commuted anything -- communicated anything to the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC citizens and these passengers as to --QUESTION: What about the proposition as I -- asI've stated it? Because if you say yes -- and I thinkthere's a good answer for it -- then I'd just say, well,we have to distinguish Miranda at least. Miranda is basedon a contrary assumption. That's what's running throughmy mind as I'm asking the question. MR. THOMPSON: Well, here -- here the -- thecitizens -- some citizens did refuse Officer Lang'srequest, and what -- what you posit is -- is really theguts of what is going on here. As Officer Lang testified,Your Honor, many of the citizens -- most citizens wentalong with the police questioning in -- in this particular-- these particular bus interdictions, and they -- andthey were happy to do so. Officer Lang testified thatmany of the bus passengers appreciated his efforts incoming onto the bus. They -- it made them feel a sense of-- of safety. And here citizens generally do know theirrights, and here the police did not communicate anythingto these passengers that would indicate that they had toanswer, that they were required or otherwise compelled toanswer Officer Lang's questions. QUESTION: Did any other case that we consideredinvolve a body pat-down, not just a request to look at th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC luggage? This -- in this case the -- the luggage didn'tturn up anything of interest to the police, but the pat-down did. And the image of let's take what is -- Mr.Drayton is sitting next to a man who has just been hauledoff the bus, handcuffed. I imagine he would feel someintimidation at that point when the police then turned tohim and said, okay, we'd like to search you too.MR. THOMPSON: Well, the -- the Bostick testpresupposes a reasonable, innocent person. In thisparticular case, Mr. -- Mr. Brown's consent wasunambiguous. He opened his coat. He -- in response tothe question, he said, sure. He opened his coat. He tookout a cell phone.QUESTION: But Drayton said nothing throughoutthe whole encounter. MR. THOMPSON: Drayton's -- Drayton's consent,as the district court found, was clear and unambiguous. He raised his hands off of his thighs, Your Honor. Therewas nothing that Officer Lang said to Mr. -- or said toMr. Drayton or had said to Mr. Brown that would haveindicated that Mr. Drayton could not have terminated thequestioning or that he could have refused consent. And as this Court noted -- as this Court notedin Bostick, the fact that a lawbreaker knows that the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC search is going to uncover contraband or is -- knows thatthe search is going to uncover drugs does not make theconsent involuntary.QUESTION: Well, it doesn't make it involuntary,but it -- it does suggest perhaps that there is anambiguity here as -- as against your claim that there wasnone in Brown's consent because -- and correct me if I'mwrong on the facts, but I -- I think the first request toBrown was -- or maybe to the two of them together -- can Ilook at your -- your luggage, your bag, whatever they hadpointed to, and they said, sure. And I presume they saidsure because they knew there was nothing in it that wasgoing to be incriminating. So, the officer looked in the-- in the luggage and he found nothing. Then he turned to Brown and said, mind if I do apat-down, or whatever the phrase was. Well, that's thesearch that's in question here, and I would have thoughtthat at that point Brown was in the situation in which thereasonable citizen would have thought I'm damned if I doand I'm damned if I don't. If he pats me down and he's --he's thorough about it, he's going to find the -- thedrugs. If I say you can't pat me down, having just givenpermission to him to -- to look in the -- in the bag, he'sgoing to know that there must be something on me thatwasn't on the bag. And -- and, therefore, it seems to me th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC that the -- that Brown at that point was by no means in aposition in which he had a kind of free choice to say yesor no. So, it sounds to me as though it is ambiguous. Have I got the facts wrong?MR. THOMPSON: You have the facts, but yourconclusion, Your Honor, I would differ with because in --in the situation both individuals pointed to the bag.There was nothing in Officer Lang's request to Mr. Brownthat would -- that would -- that -- that would send orcommunicate to Mr. Brown that he could not have refusedthe request. There was nothing in Officer Lang's questionthat would indicate to Mr. Brown that he could not haveotherwise terminated the questioning. Why some of the --QUESTION: Well, you don't agree, I hope, withthe -- with the proposition that there would be no reasonto decline the pat-down search except the reason that hehad something incriminating on him. I mean, the mere factthat you've -- you've acceded to the luggage search, whichis a much less intrusive search, does not show that --that you have something to hide when you -- when youdecline to -- to have a pat-down. Don't -- don't youagree that a consent to a luggage search is a lot lessdifficult to obtain than consent to a pat-down?MR. THOMPSON: The nature -- the nature of thesearch is not necessary to the Bostick inquiry. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: Well, I think you're -- I thinkyou're missing my point. Justice Souter was suggestingthat having acceded to the luggage search, the onlyplausible reason for objecting to the pat-down would bethat I have something on me that is incriminating. And I-- I acceded to the luggage search because I knew therewas nothing incriminating. But don't you think that aninnocent citizen could agree to a -- a policeman's searchof luggage but not agree to a pat-down? MR. THOMPSON: Absolutely, Your Honor.QUESTION: And -- and, of course, I wouldagree --QUESTION: You know, let's be reasonable here.QUESTION: Yes. But don't -- don't you thinkthe most probable inference is the inference I gave you?MR. THOMPSON: No, Your Honor. You have --again, you have to understand this Court's holding inBostick and that is the --QUESTION: The holding in Bostick, if I rememberit, was that the Florida Supreme Court was wrong inadopting a per se rule and left open the question ofwhether there was a seizure in that case. Isn't thatright?MR. THOMPSON: Yes, Your Honor. But in thisparticular case, the reasonable person, as this Court th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC said, presupposes a reasonable, innocent person. Lawbreakers sometimes agree to be -- agree to be searched,knowing that the drugs are in their luggage or on theirperson, for a number of reasons, sometimes as -- as thesegentlemen did. They want to be cooperative. They do notwant to send some kind of message that they indeed havethe items in question. They want to appear innocent. They do this for any number of reasons, hoping that thepolice officer will not search them and go away. QUESTION: Mr. Thompson, you --MR. THOMPSON: It has nothing to do with --QUESTION: -- you were about to say --MR. THOMPSON: -- compulsion. Excuse me.QUESTION: -- that the police -- you were aboutto say when the police go over the line. I think you saidhere they did nothing that would imply that consent orthat -- that the search was required of the citizen. What-- can -- can you give a description of when the policewould step over the line? Is it -- must the police givewords of command, get up, I want to search you? Is that-- does it take that?MR. THOMPSON: The -- if -- if the police wouldcommunicate to the citizen somehow that the citizen'sresponse was compelled. For example, in -- in Bostickthis Court noted that pointing guns, drawn guns would lead th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC to that -- that kind of compulsion or coercion. Forexample, if the police used threatening language. If thepolice communicated to the reasonable person that he orshe could not refuse the request for consent or could nototherwise terminate the questioning. QUESTION: And that explains Miranda, of course,to the extent anything explains it. (Laughter.) QUESTION: That -- that was a custodialinterrogation, wasn't it? MR. THOMPSON: Yes, Your Honor. QUESTION: And the -- the physical custody wouldhave had that -- that effect of -- of causing the personto believe that he had no choice.MR. THOMPSON: Absolutely. Here you haveunstructured, rapidly developing police-citizenencounters, and what is important here --QUESTION: And you have a request and aresponse. And the response is that there is no objectionto the search. And it seems to me that that is anobjective consideration of the highest importance. MR. THOMPSON: That's correct, Your Honor. QUESTION: May I ask, Mr. Thompson, do youregard this primarily as a seizure case or a search case?MR. THOMPSON: This is a seizure case, Your th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Honor. That's the -- the court below decided this caseunder the -- under the Bostick test. Both parties beforethe Eleventh Circuit urged the Bostick test, and this is-- I would submit that this is a seizure case.QUESTION: Do you think it always would followif you concluded that there was no seizure, that there wasnecessarily voluntary consent to the search?MR. THOMPSON: If there was no seizure?QUESTION: Right. MR. THOMPSON: It -- in this Court's test inBostick, the Court merged the voluntary issue and thevoluntariness in with the -- in with the Bostick seizureanalysis. So, I would say that -- that the two are mergedtogether and are related. QUESTION: It doesn't seem to me thatanalytically they have to be. It seems to me you couldhave a case in which you could -- the officer could say tothe man, you're perfectly free to get off the bus anytimeyou want to, but I'd like to -- to search you first, andmay I do so? And then the question would be whether thesearch was voluntary even if there had been no seizure. It seems to me that could be a scenario that would makesense. MR. THOMPSON: It's -- it's hard to -- in thecontext of these bus -- police-citizen encounters on a th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC bus, it's hard to really see the distinction between thevoluntariness test and the seizure test.QUESTION: But it does seem to me the passengermight have two different thoughts. One, I better not getoff the bus. I want to get to Columbus or Cleveland orwherever we're going. So, I -- that -- maybe I can getoff the bus, but it just doesn't make any sense. Butthat's one inquiry. The second inquiry is, do I want tolet this fellow search me? It seems to me they are reallytwo separate questions. MR. THOMPSON: I don't know, Your Honor, but I-- I would posit here that we do not really need in thisparticular case to -- to understand the full extent of thescope of the voluntariness test because the court belowclearly decided this case under Bostick and as a seizurecase.QUESTION: A seizure of the person or seizure ofthe contraband?MR. THOMPSON: The person, Your Honor. QUESTION: If we were writing on a blank slateand other cases weren't there, what would be theDepartment's objections to a rule of law that said whenyou're on a bus, only inches of an aisle, three peopleget on. One is sitting in the back looking over thecrowd. The other two systematically work their way to the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC front. What would be the objection to saying, policeman,of course, you can ask citizens to cooperate? Certainlythat's a very desirable thing. But in those closed,cramped quarters where you have three, just say you don'thave to answer if you don't want to. You don't have to besearched if you don't want to, making clear that you'reeliciting voluntary cooperation and nobody is undercompulsion. What would be the objection to that?MR. THOMPSON: Well, as this Court noted inBostick, Your Honor, just because the police-citizenencounter happens on a bus, there's no reason to establishsome kind of per se rule.QUESTION: Well, I assume Congress could enact astatute like that, couldn't it, for Federal officers? Couldn't Congress prescribe that whenever Federal drugagents enter a bus, they -- and to conduct a -- a search,they shall make such a statement?MR. THOMPSON: I -- I don't know --QUESTION: You would have no problem withCongress doing that, would you? MR. THOMPSON: I would -- I would say, YourHonor, here that --QUESTION: It might. It might be bad policy. And my question was are there policy objections to -- I'mnot saying what the constitutional rule is. I understand th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC those arguments. I'm just, for my own benefit, trying tofind out if that would cause a practical problem or not.MR. THOMPSON: I can think of three reasons. Your Honor, this Court has consistently held that we --you do not want to saddle law enforcement officers withsome kind of bright line test in Fourth Amendment cases. That's very important here when I would submit thatBostick is an appropriate vehicle to determine thevalidity of consent.In these particular cases, it's -- it's verydifficult. You have an unstructured, rapidly evolving anddeveloping situation, and warnings would not be --QUESTION: And one of the difficulties with --with a warning is, you know, Miranda was supposed to be abright line test where, you know, we didn't have to argueabout anything. Well, we had at least or cases heredeciding whether somebody introduced -- was interrogatingand that sort of thing. So, if you have some sort of arequirement like that, it's just another layer oflitigation. MR. THOMPSON: Absolutely, Your Honor, and Iwould direct the Court's attention to a case that wascited in the Government's brief, United States v.Stephens, where there was some appropriate warning, andthe court -- the Ninth Circuit in that particular case th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC said that the warning confused the passengers, intimidatedthe passengers. But --QUESTION: Well, I assume the other policyobjection is, the underlying premise of Justice Breyer'ssuggestion is the Government has some obligation to teacheverybody about their rights. And that's a -- that's asweeping proposition. MR. THOMPSON: I would agree. QUESTION: Especially when it's not required bythe Constitution. MR. THOMPSON: I would agree, Justice --QUESTION: May I ask you what significance, ifany -- I don't know if it's significant or not -- do youattach to the fact that, as I understand it from the courtof appeals opinion, that this officer had made similarrequests several hundred times and only five or six peoplehad ever said no? Is that relevant at all? MR. THOMPSON: It is not relevant, Your Honor. Some people did say no. Most people --QUESTION: You don't think that suggests thatperhaps most people thought they had an obligation toanswer? MR. THOMPSON: Well, Your Honor, as this Court-- as this Court held in Delgado, simply because mostcitizens cooperate and most citizens agree with the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC officer's request, that's no indication that the consentat issue is involuntary. If there are no further questions, I would liketo reserve the remainder of my time. QUESTION: Very well, Mr. Thompson.Ms. Spivey, we'll hear from you.ORAL ARGUMENT OF GWENDOLYN SPIVEYON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTSMS. SPIVEY: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court:This Court should reaffirm Bostick in itsentirety. We are not arguing that advice should berequired. Rather, we think that Bostick got it entirelyright with the language that advice is a factorparticularly worth noting. If Bostick is revised, wewould ask the Court to remand to the court of appeals, asit did in Bostick, so that it can reconsider. I believe the key to this test -- and I don'tmean to sound presumptuous. Having thought long and hard,I think the key is that the Eleventh Circuit really wastrying to give voice to the seizure or -- and the consenttest, as set out in Bostick. In Bostick at U.S. , theCourt wrote -- it focused on what the police conduct --conduct would have communicated to a reasonable person.And in Washington at and Guapi at , th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC what the Eleventh Circuit focused on -- it said, it isenough that the circumstances themselves would indicatethat the search can proceed only if consent is given. So,I believe that the Eleventh Circuit parallels Bostick'suse of the word -- that focused on what does itcommunicate with their use of the word indicate. Andindicate necessarily refers back to -- it expressly refersback to the circumstances, which is the totality. And while courts tend to focus most commonly onwhether or not advice was given or not given, I thinkthere are any number of acts or omissions that focus onthe police conduct --QUESTION: That -- that I think is true, butcould -- if their point is that if -- if you were to takeyour case, this case before us, and say under the presentlaw and the test that you're enunciating, that you do haveto tell the passengers what I suggested earlier -- tellthem they don't have to answer or respond -- well, thenyou'd have to in every case. So, why don't you give me anexample of one where they wouldn't. MS. SPIVEY: Yes, sir. I would -- I would posita -- a -- I could posit a scenario, and the best one Ithought of is that that we've all flown on airplanes and--QUESTION: No. On a bus. Could you possibly do th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC -- because actually oddly enough Bostick is about buses. MS. SPIVEY: Yes, sir. QUESTION: And -- and there -- it's about buses.MS. SPIVEY: Yes, sir. QUESTION: And the buses are stopped andsomebody comes on. All right. So, what is -- can youthink of any example in those circumstances where theywouldn't have to make that announcement? MS. SPIVEY: Yes, sir. In a -- besidesreferring to the specific factors here and suggesting thatthe police conduct ratchet down the coerciveness of anyfactor, I would suggest that if the police did not delaythe -- the departure of the bus, did not engage in bag-matching, and did not do any more than a -- a flightattendant does standing in the aisle and talkingindividually to the passenger and does not use languagethat would communicate to a reasonable, innocent personthat cooperation is required -- for example, usinglanguage that it's voluntary. They could use languagethat it's voluntary. They could say, are you willing,with your permission. Or specifically in this case, relating to Mr.Drayton, they could engage in acts. For example, when youask --QUESTION: Didn't they use language like that in th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC this case? Did they say, you know, open your coat, I wantto pat you down? MS. SPIVEY: They used --QUESTION: Didn't they make it clear that theywere asking permission which suggests that the person hasthe ability to deny permission?MS. SPIVEY: Respectfully, Justice Scalia, Idon't believe so. I think it was very clear that whatthey were asking for was cooperation.QUESTION: What -- what words did they use in --in particular? MS. SPIVEY: They immediately approached eachindividual passenger --QUESTION: Right. MS. SPIVEY: -- and said, I'm Officer so and so. I'm doing this. QUESTION: Right. MS. SPIVEY: Do you have a bag on the bus?QUESTION: Yes.MS. SPIVEY: I believe that point right theredenied the Bostick right to refuse to engage with theofficer.QUESTION: Wait. And -- and that's all theyasked, and when the person said yes, they immediatelysearched the bag? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: No. MS. SPIVEY: No.QUESTION: Surely, surely they required more.MS. SPIVEY: Then they asked another question. QUESTION: What was the other question that theyQUESTION: On page of the Government'sMS. SPIVEY: Do you mind --QUESTION: -- it says, do you mind if I checkasked? brief --it?MS. SPIVEY: Do you mind if I check it?QUESTION: Does -- does that not suggest exactlywhat you want them to suggest, that the person has theability to withhold that consent?MS. SPIVEY: No, Justice Scalia. In Schnecklothat U.S. , this Court referred to the, quote, subtlycoercive police questions. And I think one really doeshave to look at the nuances of the questions and how areasonable, innocent person would take them.QUESTION: Well, what is the nuance of aquestion, do you mind if I inspect it?MS. SPIVEY: Because I think no matter how areasonable, innocent person answers it, Mr. Chief Justice,the police can construe it as consent. If they say -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: But -- well, is there any doubt thatthis person answered it in a way that indicated consent?MS. SPIVEY: Mr. Chief Justice, I believe thereis doubt because I believe -- not as to the bag, but as tothe question, do you mind if I check your person. I dobelieve there's definitely doubt because of the indirectquestion and also because of his --QUESTION: Well, what's -- what's indirect? Doyou mind if I check your person? MS. SPIVEY: Because no matter whether youanswer it yes or no, it's not may I check your person. Ifyou say no, it means no. Yes means yes. But if you say,do you mind if I, if the person says yes --QUESTION: So, it -- it turns on that sort of asubtle distinction? MS. SPIVEY: I think it can, Your Honor. Ithink it's one factor --QUESTION: But if we do, then don't we have tofollow the district court? I mean, the district courtthere concluded in the facts that everything wascooperative, there was nothing coercive, there was nothingconfrontational. MS. SPIVEY: Yes, sir. QUESTION: And he heard the officer and he heardthe tone of voice. So, how -- how could we possibly get th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC around that? MS. SPIVEY: Well, Justice Breyer, the districtcourt applied the wrong test. It applied the free-to-leave test. That -- that's at the joint appendix at ,and that's specifically what this Court rejected inBostick the Florida Supreme Court had done. He also -- I disagree with the Government'srepresentation that he said that Mr. Drayton was clear orunambiguous. He did not address -- he did not make anyfactual findings as to the actual encounter. And --QUESTION: The freedom-to-leave test actually is-- is more beneficial for your client. Everybody knowsyou're not free to leave the bus. You'll miss the bus. I mean, that's -- that's what we said in Bostick. So, itseems to me that the district court applied a higherstandard than -- than was necessary and still foundvoluntary search.MS. SPIVEY: Well, Justice Kennedy, from myperspective, the important point is that he applied thewrong test, the test this Court has rejected. And also, he made two other legal --QUESTION: Do you want us to reverse becausethere was a test that's too favorable to your client? Idon't understand that. MS. SPIVEY: No. I -- I have no -- I have no th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC objection with the Bostick test, either the test forseizure at U.S. or the test for consent at U.S. . I think that the court of appeals then applied the correcttest and overturned the -- the legal conclusion which thedistrict court reached. The district court said that -- he made a globalconclusion. He said, quote, their consent leads me tobelieve there was no violation. Well, I think that, withall respect, is a tautology. Just because they consent,it doesn't mean there's no violation. And I think that --he said --QUESTION: Surely he meant their consent inthose circumstances. Didn't he recite in the opinion allof the circumstances involved? MS. SPIVEY: No, Your Honor. QUESTION: Don't you think it's a little unfairto -- to read that after -- after he describes the wholesituation as simply saying, well, since they consented, itmust be okay? MS. SPIVEY: Justice Scalia --QUESTION: I mean, you can say, you know, I'mgoing to torture you if you don't let me look at it. Okay, okay, okay, look at it. (Laughter.) QUESTION: Surely nobody is going to say his th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC consent shows that it was voluntary. MS. SPIVEY: No, Justice Scalia, I don't agreewith the first part of the question because the districtcourt made no findings whatsoever regarding the specificsof the actual encounter or exchange between the -- thedefendants and the -- or the police officers andindividual passengers. QUESTION: Did you ask for findings -- did youask for findings that were that detailed? MS. SPIVEY: The trial -- neither trial counselfor the Government nor the defense did, Your Honor. But the district court then said there's nothingcoercive about this encounter, and I believe that's anultimate legal conclusion which, when the court of appealsapplied the correct test from Bostick, reached the correctresult.QUESTION: As far as Drayton is concerned,there's nothing in the record other than that he liftedhis hands from his lap. Is there -- he didn't utter anywords, and so his consent rides on that gesture and whatit meant.MS. SPIVEY: Yes. Yes, Justice Ginsburg, thatis correct. And I think it's clear under Schneckloth andBumper that mere acquiescence -- and that was -- is notsufficient. And that's why I was saying I think that the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC police conduct can be either acts or -- and/or omissions. And I think the omission here or the act here was simplynot waiting on an answer.QUESTION: Excuse me. When -- when you're askeda question, do you mind if I conduct a pat-down, and youraise up your arms like that, what -- what does thatnaturally convey?MS. SPIVEY: I think that's a classic example,Your Honor -- after you've just watched the otherpassenger arrested and hauled across the top of you,that's a classic example of mere acquiescence to a show ofauthority. QUESTION: Mere acquiescence.QUESTION: That's apparently the opposite --QUESTION: Acquiescence would be just to sitthere, it seems to me. QUESTION: I mean, isn't that the opposite ofwhat the district court thought --MS. SPIVEY: The district --QUESTION: -- who saw all this? I mean, thedistrict court heard the witnesses. He heard the tone ofvoice. I mean, I don't see how to get very far with thisnotion of the question. What about the other two things? Was this acase where the passengers knew that the bags were being th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC matched? MS. SPIVEY: Justice Breyer, in response to yourfirst question, the district court never addressed thespecifics of Mr. Drayton's nonverbal response --QUESTION: All right. I -- I see it. What about -- but was this a case where the --where -- was this a case where the passengers knew thatthe bags were being matched? MS. SPIVEY: I think it was very clear. I don'tthink a reasonable person sitting in that bus, unless theywere deaf, could not have known that the bags -- they wereasking every person, do you -- as the first question. Doyou have a bag? If they did, may I check it. In fact,Officer Lang --QUESTION: Well, I don't know what you meantthen by bags being matched. I thought you meant that theywent outside or did something. I --MS. SPIVEY: No, Your Honor. The carry-onluggage, which this Court, you know, focused on in Bond,the privacy of that carry-on luggage. I believe that theGovernment -- the officer used that as a means ofbasically forcing an encounter by asking a person, do youhave a bag. And Stephens pointed out the Hobson's choicethat a passenger faces. They don't -- it -- it denies th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC their right to ignore the officer because if they saynothing, the bag is construed as abandoned. You have torespond to the officer. So, I think Bostick gives you theright to ignore --QUESTION: An American citizen has to protecthis rights once in a while. That's -- that's a very badthing?MS. SPIVEY: I think the Bostick, JusticeKennedy, gave citizens, bus passengers, the right toignore officers.QUESTION: Of course. The right to say,officer, don't bother me. MS. SPIVEY: But that's not ignoring them, YourHonor. That's having to engage with them, and I thinkthat's part of the technique that's used, is getting aperson -- if you can get them to --QUESTION: Well, I -- I don't read Bostick thatway.Now, this -- this argument that because thefirst person is arrested, the second person feels coerced,that seems to me it goes the other way around. The secondperson now knows the consequences of giving consent. Under your theory, the first person is arrested and thesecond person says, oh, I -- I'd like to be arrested too. Come and search me. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC (Laughter.) MS. SPIVEY: I don't think --QUESTION: That -- that doesn't make sense.MS. SPIVEY: I don't think a reasonable,innocent person would take what happened to -- to apassenger sitting next to him as anything but a classicexample of a show of authority. In -- in response to your question, JusticeKennedy, to the Government earlier, I think that puttingthe burden on the citizen shifts the -- the burden is onthe Government in every case to prove that the encounteris consensual and that any consent given is voluntary andis uncoerced. And I think --QUESTION: The question is whether or not theGovernment also has the burden to educate citizens as totheir rights in every encounter, whether or not thereisn't some obligation on the part of the citizen to knowand to exercise his rights or her rights. MS. SPIVEY: Justice Kennedy, I believe thatthat ignores the demographic realities of the reasonablebus passenger. The Government acknowledged below thatmost bus passengers are economically disadvantaged, andthey don't know who their Congressman is or the Governor. They don't -- that was not acknowledged below. I don'tmean -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: So, you want people to travel onbuses where people might have weapons and drugs and can'tbe searched. You think that's better for passengers.MS. SPIVEY: Certainly not, Your Honor. Certainly not, but I think there is a limit to theimposition on millions of innocent people for the purposeof ferreting out ordinary criminal wrongdoing. And to theextent that the -- the departure of this bus was delayed,I think this case is right on point with the Edmund case.To the extent they delayed the forward movement of thatbus, I believe every passenger on it was seized eventhough I disagree that the court below addressed theseizure issue.QUESTION: Ms. Spivey, is there anything in therecord that -- that indicates whether the police knew thatthese two people were traveling together? MS. SPIVEY: They knew that they were seatednext to each other in a seat. There was no testimonywhatsoever -- there was testimony that the officer hadseen the respondents in -- depending on which transcriptwe're looking at. There is testimony in the jointappendix that the officer had seen them boarding the bus,and that is at J.A. . In response to questioning bythe court, he indicated he had seen them boarding the bus,but there was no testimony in this record that he ever saw th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC them together before he saw them seated next to each otherin the seat.And the other point I wanted to make, going tothat question, if I might, is that --QUESTION: Well, the -- he did associate the twoof them because of the fact that they were both wearingheavy, baggy clothes, although the weather wasn't thatcold in Tallahassee at the time. MS. SPIVEY: Yes, sir. But he never said thatthey were traveling together.QUESTION: Okay, but they're sitting next toeach other, and unlike the other passengers in the bus,they're all -- they're both wearing heavy, baggy clothes.I'm not sure that -- that the major result ofthe first -- of the first seizure wouldn't really havebeen to give the police probable cause anyway to -- tosearch the second passenger, even without his consent.MS. SPIVEY: Well --QUESTION: You see -- you see two guys dressedextravagantly sitting next to each other. You search thefirst one and find drugs on him. You think you're notgoing to search the second?MS. SPIVEY: I think that if they had looked atthe -- at the passengers' tickets, they would have hadreasonable suspicion, but I do not think there are any th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC facts in this case -- and the police officer -- they'rethe best ones to judge -- and the prosecutor at trial allagreed there was no reasonable suspicion here.QUESTION: I would have searched the second one. I would have thought I had probable cause having two guysboth dressed in baggy clothes in warm weather, I finddrugs on the first, they're sitting next to each other. I think I would have probable cause to search the second.MS. SPIVEY: Yes, Justice Scalia, I think therecord adequately points out reasons why all of thosefactors could have been -- could have been determined tobe totally innocent. The innocent people could have beendoing that same thing. Baggy pants are very popular thesedays. One can look anywhere and see them. There werereasons why they would have had their coats on.QUESTION: Not in Tallahassee in the summertime.MS. SPIVEY: It was February th, , YourHonor, which is not --QUESTION: You -- you think that the policeshould have asked them -- told the people in the busyou're free to leave. That's basically -- would that makeit all right in your opinion? MS. SPIVEY: No, Your Honor, because I --QUESTION: No. What -- what -- is it that thepolice in your opinion can't search anyone in the bus? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Period? What -- what is your view on that?MS. SPIVEY: I -- I don't believe that either. I think that -- I clearly agree with Bostick that on-bussearches, consensual --QUESTION: No, no. I'm trying to -- I'm sorry. I misspoke. Your -- your view is that they should havetold the passengers explicitly in a strong way you do nothave to cooperate if you don't want to. Is that -- isthat your view? MS. SPIVEY: My view is that in a case likethis, which is at the margins, where a court of appealslooks at it and feels that it's so coercive that there arevarious acts or omissions that the police can do toratchet down the coerciveness of the environment, or theycan choose to counter it, which the most -- the typicalexample we see is the giving or -- or withholding ofadvice. And certainly that's been determinative in someof the Court's cases or appears to have been outcome-determinative. But I think there are other things thepolice can do.QUESTION: So, we -- we should accept the feel,as you describe it, of the court of appeals in this case?MS. SPIVEY: Well, Your Honor, I think that wasone of the main -- there were two main points of Arvizu. One was to reject the divide and conquer approach of the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Government that, well, because this -- this factor didn'tweigh heavily, we shouldn't even look at it. But the other was that it recognized theimportance of a court of appeals in a totality test,employing de novo review, to unify precedent and toprovide guidance to district courts --QUESTION: What -- I'm trying to look at what todo. I'm -- I'm not -- suppose I think for argument's sakein many circumstances where policemen come up and questionpeople, even if they say politely, are you willing toanswer my questions or be searched, the person feelscoerced. But the law still tries to draw a line even ifthat's fictional in reality. Very well. What's the rightline? I mean, are buses special? What is it that'ssupposed to be done? That's what I'm trying to elicitfrom you. MS. SPIVEY: Justice Breyer, I don't believe Ican give this Court a bright line test because of thetotality of the circumstances. I think it's the nature ofthe totality test that, under the right circumstances, anyfactor can -- can serve to tip the balance in the rightcircumstances. And so, I -- I don't think I can give abright -- I don't think a bright line test can be devisedwhen the totality of the circumstances --QUESTION: May I ask you a question that I keep th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC -- perhaps this is sort of strange. But if the policemade it perfectly clear to everyone that they -- in thebus that there will be no adverse consequences whatsoeverif you refuse to let me search your -- your luggage, whywould anyone let them search? Why --MS. SPIVEY: Well --QUESTION: In other words, I want to lookthrough your luggage. Why would you say yes? If you knowthere can be no adverse consequences, it seems to me theywould never be able to search anybody. MS. SPIVEY: Unless they had an overwhelmingdesire to cooperate and have their personal stuff gonethrough.QUESTION: Well, what is the cooperation? We'regoing to let you find out that I don't have guns and drugsin my -- I know I don't have guns and drugs in my luggage. So, why should -- don't -- don't bother me. I don't wantyou to search me. I don't see why anyone would everconsent if they knew it was totally risk-free.MS. SPIVEY: I agree, Justice Stevens.QUESTION: I don't agree. I -- I know it'srisk-free, and I would certainly give my consent. I thinkit's a good thing for the police to do.MS. SPIVEY: Well, Justice Scalia, I wouldcertainly never consent to them checking my person for th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC anything. But I'm a lawyer and I know that --QUESTION: If I was dressed like that, I would. If I was dressed like that on a hot day, I'd beprobably --QUESTION: On a hot day in February. (Laughter.) QUESTION: I'm -- I'm only using the record,Chief Justice. The record -- the record says it wasunusually hot. (Laughter.) MS. SPIVEY: I would like to address theGovernment's argument that there is a per se rule in thiscase. And one of the points they make is -- in theirreply brief at , they argue that because we have notidentified one case in which the Eleventh Circuit hasruled in favor of the Government in an on-bus case -- Ihave been able to identify three unpublished decisions,which I'd like to cite to the Court. And at Mr. Souter'sdirection, I will lodge them with the Clerk afterargument. They are: the McLean case, which is case number-, dated July th, , after Washington; theReese case, -, dated March th, ; and theGarrett case, dated -- case number -, dated Novemberth, .QUESTION: Does the Eleventh Circuit have any th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC rule about using its unpublished opinions for any purposeother than preclusion in a particular case?MS. SPIVEY: It's considered persuasiveauthority but not binding authority. But my point was simply that if they had -- ifthey had a de facto per se rule, then it would be outcome-- the presence or absence of rights would be outcome --outcome-determinative in every case. But in those threecases, which were on-bus searches, there was either noadvice or no mention of it in the opinion. And of course,these unpublished opinions are very hard to get, but theGovernment gave me an incentive to find them.QUESTION: The -- the briefs make a big dealabout the fact that they didn't announce that everybody onthe bus first -- a general announcement what was going tohappen. I -- I -- it seems to me that if we go down thatroad and it'd be like our cases, where one case says theydidn't look at the officer, and the next case said theydidn't look at the -- I -- I just think that's equivocal. I think you can argue that either way. And you go on for pages in -- in your briefabout the -- the police chose the -- the locus, the buslocus, the fact that they were close to the passengers,which they obviously had to be in the bus, and -- andtalked individually to each passenger, the officer's th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC appearance and demeanor, they constructively blocked theaisle, they presented their badges, but they didn't showthe gun. It -- it seems to me this world you're creatingfor us is -- is not strong for the Constitution. It seemsto me a strong world is when officers respect people'srights and -- and people know what their rights are and --and assert their rights. I don't want to be searched.MS. SPIVEY: Well, Justice Kennedy --QUESTION: I don't want to be searched. Leaveme alone. MS. SPIVEY: I agree that would be an idealworld if all our citizens took civics or took law and knewtheir rights, but I don't believe they do. And I think the fact that we go through thefactors is simply a product of the totality test. That'snecessary to look at all the relevant factors in thattotality test. But I don't think there is any definingpoint at which one -- a person can say I think it's up tothe court in every case, is this too coercive, does it gotoo far? I would note that in Bostick, Bostick did -- didset out the seizure test at , the consent test at . The one thing it really in my mind didn't really clearlyfocus on was the test that the Eleventh Circuit was th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC looking at. The question they looked at is whether thecircumstances here were so coercive that no reasonableperson could have given a consent that would have beendetermined to be voluntary. And I think that's why in thecourt's opinion, the court of appeals opinion -- this is-- excuse me -- footnote at page a of the petition tothe appendix. That is why they then used the language --I'm sorry. I'm sorry. It's footnote at page a. Theythen used the language, quoting Bostick, but whether areasonable person would have felt free to decline theofficer's request. And I think that is -- was their attempt to goto the element of was this -- was this a coerciveenvironment. It distinguishes it from the seizure testwhich focuses on the police conduct and what it would havecommunicated and I -- and then the consent test, which isat , which focuses -- under Schneckloth includes afocus on the personal factors, factors personal to thedefendant. And I think that's why the Court here saidthat those factors personal to the defendant were notdeterminative because we're looking at a little higherlevel of analysis as to whether this environment was socoercive. I do agree that in the context of your averagebus case, it's a very short encounter, very brief. The th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC testimony was that in to minutes, the officer couldengage with two to three people. So, you're looking maybe to minutes per person. And I think that the test --that the factors relating to seizure and the factorsrelating to the -- the consent tend to be conflated, andso it is sometimes sort of hard to sort out. And a lot ofthe factors will apply to both of those tests.QUESTION: Why -- why is it that the mostimmediate expression of the police officers does notcounteract whatever other indications of compulsion mightexist under the circumstances? I mean, if the policemancomes up and says, you know, lean up against the wall,spread your legs, I'm going to pat you down, you're undercompulsion. But if he comes up and says, do you mind if Isearch your person, you know, I don't care what other --there's a policeman in the front of the bus. Who cares? He -- he has made it very clear that he's asking for yourpermission. What -- what more need he do than that? Doyou mind if I search your person? MS. SPIVEY: I believe, Justice Scalia, if theCourt ruled that, it would be a bright line test asopposed to a totality test. And I think one has to --when one applies a reasonable person -- reasonable,innocent person test, one of necessity puts themselves inthe seat of that bus passenger. How do they feel? And th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC that's why, Justice Breyer, I tried to give the -- thelittle example of the airplane because --QUESTION: My problem, of course, is I think ifyou go with an all-facts test, you've got to go with thedistrict court. He saw it and the court of appealsdidn't. And that's why I've been wondering if maybethere's something inherently coercive about the busenvironment that suggests a -- a need for a warning. Butyou don't agree with that and -- and therefore I'm sort ofstuck. And there we are. QUESTION: Why -- why don't you agree with that? I mean, it seemed that was almost the question that I -- Iasked when -- when you were responding to Justice Stevensand you said, well, ultimately sure, anybody who getsthese warnings, with a teaspoonful of brains, is going tosay no, I -- I'm not going to let you search. And -- and it seemed to me that maybe the -- theanswer to the problem is there are some situations inwhich if you don't give the warning, it does get to thepoint of -- or is virtually a -- a coercive situation perse, and it may be that there's no easy answer in thosecircumstances. If you don't let them know that they have aright to refuse, there's inherent coercion. If you do letthem know, most people are going to say, no, you can't th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC search. But you resist that. You -- you don't regard itas inherently coercive. And I -- I guess I'm not sure whyyou -- you resist it. Why isn't it? MS. SPIVEY: Justice Souter, personally yes, Ido agree with you. I think it is an inherently coerciveenvironment. But I simply didn't take that positionbecause I didn't think that was a position that I could --QUESTION: Sell. MS. SPIVEY: -- prevail upon. QUESTION: Sell to the Court? (Laughter.) MS. SPIVEY: Yes, sir. Yes, sir. I -- I didnot because of it being sort of a bright line. But I guess my feel about it is that there seemsto be some contradiction between when we talk about inMiranda, we're talking about a coercive -- we're talkingabout someone who's suspected of a crime. There'sprobable cause, and so we're going to give them somewarnings. But yet, a reasonable, innocent person,millions of bus passengers -- they don't get anything. And there just -- I don't know -- it seems to me somethingwrong with that --QUESTION: Ms. Spivey, is there anything in therecord about what the innocent people actually felt whenthe police officers came on the bus? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MS. SPIVEY: There's nothing but the testimonyof the officer as to what he thinks they felt. There isno testimony of the passengers.QUESTION: So, we really don't know how theinnocent passengers felt. MS. SPIVEY: No, sir, we don't. We just have totry to put ourselves in their shoes and how would we feel. Not being lawyers --QUESTION: The only testimony was -- OfficerLang was the only one. He was one of the three. He wasone of the two questioners. He's the only one whotestified in the district court. Is that right? MS. SPIVEY: Yes, Justice Ginsburg. QUESTION: Do you think -- you haven't saidanything about the difference between, say, a bus terminalor a street where when the police say whatever -- you --you are in a large space. There is something differentabout a bus and -- or the airplane cabin where you -- youare rather confined compared to being stopped in thestreet. MS. SPIVEY: I think that is the primary pointthat goes to Justice Souter's question about why it isinherently coercive. It sort of goes back to a Royer'ssituation where you had a person in a small, enclosedroom. But I personally -- if you're sitting in a seat and th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC that's why I said if -- if the person like a stewardesswould just stand there and not come right in your face,but a person gets in your face, you can't move over, youcan't back up, I don't see how you could possibly get outof the seat without -- even if you wanted to. But that'snot the test. QUESTION: I thought the testimony showed thatthe officer leaned over from the back, not in your face.MS. SPIVEY: The -- the district courtcharacterized his style as sort of in your face. Heclearly stood. His testimony was he was standing in theaisle, but I guess behind -- he didn't say this. This ishow I understand it -- behind the arm -- behind thearmrest so that a person could theoretically get theirlegs out. My -- but he was very clearly leaning over to inches from Mr. Drayton's face, holding his badgeup.QUESTION: Thank you, Ms. Spivey. MS. SPIVEY: Thank you very much. QUESTION: Mr. Thompson, you have minutesremaining. REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF LARRY D. THOMPSONON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERMR. THOMPSON: Your Honor, I have a couplepoints. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC There was nothing in -- in the record that wouldindicate that the bus was in fact delayed. On the -- on the consent point, the districtcourt specifically held that the defendants consentedafter hearing the evidence at the -- at the suppressionhearing. And the respondents were not naive individualsor unable to understand or assert their -- their rights. Respondent Drayton was . He was employed for of thelast years, and he had experience in dealing withprevious drug charges. Respondent Brown was and hadbeen a -- a corrections officer.And the point with respect to Justice Breyer'squestion. Your Honor, buses, as -- as the Governmentpointed out in its reply brief, buses today in today'senvironment are vulnerable. They are vulnerable tospecific public safety concerns, and the Government wouldsubmit that bus passengers are entitled to the kind ofefficient, effective, and fair bus interdiction effortsthat are -- that characterize --QUESTION: Do passengers on the buses go throughthe same kind of check that we do on airlines?MR. THOMPSON: No, they do not, Your Honor. QUESTION: That's -- that's what I was wonderingbecause today people might think if you're on a airportand you don't go through the detector, you don't fly. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Well, they might think that if you don't answer thequestions, you don't go --MR. THOMPSON: We do not --QUESTION: -- on the bus. And -- and -- somaybe there's more need now for something. MR. THOMPSON: We -- we do not have thatspecific kind of program, and certainly that was not the-- the reason relied upon for the consent in -- in therecord below. But in this particular case, Your Honor,Officer Lang testified that not only did most of thepassengers that he encountered consent, but of themappreciated what he was doing. It gave them a sense ofcomfort. It made them feel that their bus travel wassafe. And that would be the point that I would like tomake here. And unless the Court has any further questions. CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: Thank you, Mr.Thompson. The case is submitted. (Whereupon, at : a.m., the case in theabove-entitled matter was submitted.) th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC A abandoned : ability : : able : : about : : : :, : : :, : : : : :, : :,,,, :,, above-entitled : : absence : absolutely : : : : acceded : :, accept : acknowledged : :, acquiescence : :,, across : act : acts : : : : actual : : actually : : : : address : : addressed : : adds : adequately : adopting : adverse :, advice : :, : : : after :, : :, : again : against : : agents :, : agree : : :, :,, :, :,, : : : : : : :, : agreed : airlines : airplane : : airplanes : airport : aisle : : : : : all-facts : almost : alone : along : although : always : ambiguity : ambiguous : Amendment : : American : analysis : : : analytically : and/or : announce : announced : : announcement : : another : : : answer :,, : : : : : : :, : answered : answers : anybody : : anyone : :, anything : :, : : : : : : : :, : anytime : anyway : anywhere :, : apparently : : appeals : : : : : : : : : appear : appearance : APPEARANCES : appears : appendix : : : applied : :, :,,, : : applies : : apply : applying : appreciated : : approach : approached : appropriate : :, April : area : argue : : : arguing : argument : :, :, : : :, : arguments : argument's : arm : armed : : armrest : arms : around : : arrested : :,, Arvizu : asked : :, : : : asking : :, :, : assert :, : : Assistant : associate : assume : : assumption : atmosphere : : attach : attempt : attendant : attention : authority : : :, average : away : a.m : : : B back : :, : :, bad : : badge :, : : badges : : bag :,, : : :, : :, : baggy :, :, bags : :,, balance : based : basically : : before : : : : behalf :, :,, : : : behind :,, being : :, : :, believe : : : : : : : :,, : : : : : : : : : believed : below :, :, : : : :, : : beneficial : benefit : besides : best : : better : : between : : : : big : binding : bit : blank : blocked :, : boarding :, body : Bond : Bostick :, :,,,, : :, :,, : : :, : :, : :,,, : : : :,,,, : : : :, : : :,, : :, : Bostick's : both : : :, : : bother : : brains : Breyer : : : : Breyer's : : brief : : : : : : briefs : th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC bright :, :,, : : Brown : : : :,, : :,, : Brown's : : Bumper : burden :,, bus : :,,,,, :,,, :,,,,, : :,, : :, :,,, :, : : : :, : : :, :,,, : : : : :,, : : : : :, :, : :, :, : :, :,,,, : : : cite : cited : citizen : : : :, : :, citizens : :,,,,, : :, : : : citizen's : civics : claim : classic :, : clear :,,, : : : :, : : : : : clearly : : : : : : buses :,, : : :,, : :, Clerk : Cleveland : client :, Clifton : : close : closed : clothes :, : coat :, : coats : coerced : : coercion : : : coercive :, : : : : : : : :,, : : :,, : coerciveness : : : cold : Columbus : come : : : comes : :, comfort : coming : command : commonly : communicate :, : : : : : C C : : cabin : came : : capacity : care : cares : carry : carry-on :, case : :, : : : : : : : :, :, :, : :,, :,, : : :,, : : : :, : :, : :, :,,,,,,, :, :, : : :,, cases : :,, : :, casually : :, cause : : :, : causing : cell : certain :, certainly : :, : :, : characterize : characterized : charges : check :, :,, : : checking : Chief :, : : : : : choice : : : choose : chose : Christopher : : Circuit :,,, : : : : : : :, :, : circumstance : circumstances :, : :, conflict : confrontational : confused : Congress :,, Congressman : conquer : consciousness : consensual : : consent :, : : :,, :, :, : : : : :, : :, : :,,, :, : : : :,, : :, : : :, consented : : consequences : :, consider : consideration :, : considered : : :, : : : consistently : constitute : Constitution : : constitutional : constructively : construe : construed : context : : :, : : contraband : : contradiction : contrary : controlled : convey : cooperate : : : : cooperation : : : : cooperative : : correct :, : : : : :, corrections : counsel : counter : counteract : couple : course : : : : : : court :, :,, :,,,, :,,, :, : : : : : :, :,, : : : :, : : : : :,, :,,, : : :, :,,,, :,, :,, :, : : :, :, :, : : :, : :, : : : : : courts : : court's :, :,,, : communicated : : : : : : commuted : compare : compared : compelled : : compulsion : : : :, concerned : concerns : concluded : : conclusion : :, : conduct :, : :, : :, : : :, : conducting : confined : conflated : th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC : : : : : cramped : creating : crime : criminal : crowd : custodial : custody : D D : :, :, : damned :, dated :,,, day :, days : de : : deaf : deal : dealing : decide : decided : : deciding : decision :, :, : decisions : : decline : :, : defendant :, defendants : : Defender : defense : defining : definitely : delay : delayed :, : Delgado : : : demeanor : democracy : demographic : denied : denies : deny : Department : Department's : departure : : depending : Deputy : describe : describes : description : desirable : desire : detailed : detector : determinative :, : determine : : determined : : determining : : : developing : : : driver :, driver's :, : drug : : : drugs :, : : : : :, D.C :, E E : :, each : : :,, : : earlier : : easy : economically : Edmund : educate : effect : effective : : efficient : effort : efforts : : either : : : :, element : Eleventh :,,, : : : : : :, :, : elicit : th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC devised : differ : difference : : different : : : : difficult : : difficulties : direct : : direction : disadvantaged : disagree : : : dispositive : disregarded : distinction : : distinguish : distinguishes : district : :, :, : : :, :,, : : : : : : divide : doing : : : : : done : : doubt :,, down : :, : : : : : draw : drawn : Drayton : : :,,, : : : : Drayton's :, : : dressed : :, : : : : eliciting : employed : employing : enact : enclosed : encounter : : : : : : : :, : :, : encountered : encounters :, : : ending : enforcement :, : engage :, : : : enough : : enter : : entered : entirely : entirety : entitled : enunciating : environment : : : : : : : : equivocal : erred : Especially : ESQ :, :,, establish : evaluate : even : : : : :,, ever : : : every : : : :, : : : everybody : : : : everyone : everything : evidence : : evolving : exactly : example : : : : : :,, :, : : : except : exchange : excuse : : : : exercise : exercising : exist : existed : existence : exit : experience : explains :, explicitly : expression : expressly : extent : : :, extravagantly : F face :,,,, faces : fact : :,,,, :,,, :,, : : : : : :, : : facto : factor : : : : :, factors :, :, : :,,, : : :, :,, :,, factory :, facts : : : : : :, : : factual : fair : far : : : favor : favorable : February : : Federal : :, feel : : : : : : : feels : : : fellow : felt : : :, ferreting : fictional : find : : : : : : findings : : :,, fired :, first : : : :, : : :,, : : five : flight : Florida : :,, : : flown : fly : focus :, : : focused : :, : focuses : :, follow : : : follows : footnote :, forcing : formulated : forward : found : : : Fourth : : free : : : : : freedom-to-leave : free-to : from : : : : : :, : : :, front :, :,,, : : : : : full : further : : G G : Garrett : gave : : : : general : : generally : gentlemen : gesture : gets : : getting : Ginsburg : : give :, : : : : : : :, : given : : :,, : : gives : giving : : global : go : :, :, :, : :, :, : goes : :, going : :,,, : : : :,,, : :, :, : : : :,, : gone : : good : : Government : : : : :,, : : : : : Government's : : : : Governor : graphic : Guapi : guess :, : guidance : gun : :, : guns :, :, :, guts : guys : : GWENDOLYN : : : H handcuffed : hands : : happen : happened : happens : happy : hard : : : : : hauled : : having : : : : : hear : : heard :, :, hearing :, heavily : heavy :, held : : : : : her : hide : higher : : highest : him : : : : : Hobson's : holding :, : Honor :, :, :,, : :, : : : : : :, :, : :, :, :, :, : : : : : : : :, : : :, : Hoover : hope : hoping : hot :,, hundred : I ideal : identified : identify : ignore :,, ignores : : ignoring : image : imagine : immediate : immediately :, imply : importance : : : important : : : : : : imposition : inappropriate : incentive : inches : : includes : incorrectly : : incriminating : : :, indeed : : indicate : : :,, : indicated : : : indicates : indication : indications : indirect :, individual : : : individually : : individuals : : : inference :, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC inform : inherent : inherently : :, : innocent : : : :, : :, : : :, : :, : inquiry : :, inspect : interdiction : : : interdictions : interest : interrogating : interrogation : intimidated : intimidation : introduced : intrusive : involuntary :, : involve : involved : irrelevant :, :, issue : :, : : : items : it'd : J joint : : JR : judge : July : just : :, :, : : : :, :, : :, : : : : Justice : :, : :, : : :, : :, : :, : : :, : : :, : : : : : : :, : : J.A : K keep : keeping : Kennedy : : :, : key :, kind :, : : : : : :, : kneeling : : knew : : : : :, : : know :, :,, : : : : : :, : : : :, :, : :, : : :, : : : : knowing : known : knows : : : : : L Lang : :, : : : : language : : : :, :, :, Lang's :, :, lap : large : LARRY : :, : : last : Laughter : : : :, law :, : : : : : : : lawbreaker : Lawbreakers : lawyer : lawyers : layer : lead : : leads : lean : leaned : leaning : least : : leave :,, : : :, : : left : : legal : : : : legitimate : legs : : less :, let :, :, : : :, : :,, let's : : level : lifted : like : : : : : : : : : : :,,, : : : limit : line :, :, :,,, : : litigation : little : : : lives : located : locus :, lodge : long : look : : :, : : : : :, : :, : looked : : : looking : : :, : looks : lot : : luggage :, :, :, :,, : :, :,, M made : : : : : : : : main :, major : make : :, : : : : : : : : : : : : makes : making : : man : : many :, : March : margins : matched :,, matching : matter : : : : may :,, :, : : : : : : : : maybe : : : :, : McLean : mean : : : : : :, :,, : : : : means : :, : meant : : :, mention : mere : : :, merged :, message : might : : :, : : : : : millions : : mind : : :,,, :, : : : :, minutes :, : Miranda :, : : : miss : missing : misspoke : more : : : : : moreover : most : : :,,, : : : : : : move : movement : much : : : must : : : N N :, : naive : th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Nation's : naturally : nature :, : necessarily : : necessary : : : necessity : need : : : : neither : never : : :, next : : : :,, : : Ninth : nobody : : : : none : : nonverbal : note : noted : : : :, : : nothing : :, :, : : : :, :, : : : : : noting : notion : November : novo : nuance : nuances : number :, : :, O O : : objecting : objection : :, : : objections : : objective : obligation : :, : obligations : obtain : obviously : occupying : oddly : off :, : :, officer :,, :,,, : :,,,,, :, :, :, : : :, : : : :, : : : :,, :, : : : :, : : : officers :, :, : : : : : : : officer's : : : : official : oh : okay : :,,, : omission : omissions : : : once : one : : : :, : :,, : :, : : : :, :, :, : :, :,, :,, : ones : only : : : : : : :,, : onto : on-bus : : : open : : opened :, opening : opinion :, : : : : : :, opinions :, opposed : : opposite :, oral : : : : ordinary : other : :, : : :, : : : : :, : : :,,,, : : : : : :, otherwise : : : : : : ourselves : out :,,, :, : : : : : : : : : : :, : outcome : :, outcome-determinative : outside : over :, : :,, overturned : overwhelming : own : P P : page : : :, pages : pants : parallels : part : : : particular : :, : : : :, : : : particularly : parties : passenger : : :,,, :, : : : : : : : : : : : passengers : : : : : :, :, : : : : : : : :, : : : :, :, : passenger-specific : passing : pat : : : : pats : pat-down : : :,, :, : people : : :, : : :,, :,,, :, : : : : : : people's : per : : : : : : perfectly : : perhaps : : : : Period : permission : : :, : person :, : : : : :, :, :, : : :, :,, :,,,, :,, :,,,,, : : : : :, : :,,, : : :, : personal : :,, personally : : perspective : persuasive : petition : Petitioner :, :, : : phone : phrase : physical : plausible : please : : point : : : : : : : : : : : : : : :, : pointed :,,,,, : :, : : : : pointing : : points : : : : police :, : :, :, : : : :, :, :, :,,, :, : : :, :, : : : : :,, :, :, : : : : : policeman : :, policeman's : policemen : police-citizen : : : : policy :, : politely : popular : posit : : :, position : :, possibility : possibly : : : th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC practical : precedent :, : preclusion : premise : prescribe : presence : : : present :, : presented : presume : presumptuous : presupposes : : : prevail : previous : primarily : primary : principles : privacy : probable : : :, : probably : problem : : :, proceed : product : program : proposition : : : prosecutor : protect : protection : prove : proven : provide : public : : : purpose : : put : : puts : putting : Q quarters : question :, :, :,,, :,,, :, :,,, :, :,, :, :, :, :,,,,, : :,, :,,,, :, :, :,, :,,, : :,,, : :, :,, :,,,,, : :,,,,,,,, :,,, :,, :, :,, : :,, :,,,,, :, :,,, :,, :,,, :, :,,, :,,, :, :,,, :,, :,,, : : : : :,, :,, :,,, :,, :,, : questioners : questioning : : :, : : : : : : questions : : : :, : :, quote : : quoting : R R : raise : raised : rapidly : : ratchet : : rather : : reached : : read : : : reaffirm : realities : reality : really : : : : :,, : : : :, : reason :, : : : reasonable :, : : : : : : : : : : : :, : : : : :, : reasonably : reasons :, : :, REBUTTAL : : recite : recognized : reconsider : reconstruct : record :, : :, : :,, : : : Reese : reference : referred : referring : refers :, refuse : : : : : : : refused : : : regard : : regarding : REHNQUIST : : reject : rejected :, related : relating : :, relevant : :, :, :, :, : relied : remainder : remaining : remand : : remarkable : remember : reminder : reply : : representation : request : : :, : : : :, : : requested : requests : required : : : : : : requirement : reserve : resist :, respect : : : : : : : : Respectfully : respond : : Respondent :, respondents : : : : : responding : response : : :, : : : : result : : reverse : review : revised : rides : right :, : : : : : :,,, : :,, : : : :,, : : : rights :,, : : : :,, : :,,, : risk-free :, road : Robinette : room : Royer's : rule : : :, : : : ruled : : : running : S S : : saddle : safe : safety : : sake : same : : satisfied : saw : : : : : saying :, : : says : : : : : Scalia : : : : : :, : : th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC scenario : : Schneckloth : : : scope : se : : : : : search : : :,, :, :,, :,, :,, :, :,, : : : : : :,, :, :,,, :, : : searched : :, : : : : : : :, searches : : seat :, : : : : : : seated : : second : :,, :, :, see : : : :, : : : : seem : : seemed :, seems : : :, : : : : : : :, :, seen :,, seized : seizure : : :, :,, :, :,,, : : : : : : : Sell :, send : : sense : : : : : separate : serve : set : : several : : shifts : shoes : short : show : : : : : showed : : shows : : signal : signaled : significance : significant : similar : simply : : : : : : : since : sir : :,, : : : : : sit : sitting : : : : : : : : situation : : : : : : situations : six : slate : small : Solicitor : some : : : : : : :,, :, : : : :, somebody : : : somehow : someone : : something : :, : : : : : : sometimes :, : sorry : :, sort :, : : :, : : : : sound : sounds : Souter : : Souter's : : space : special : specific : : : specifically : : : specifics : : Spivey : : :,, : :, : :,,,,, :,,, :, :,,, :,, :, :,, :, :, : :, :,, :,, :,, :,, :,, : :,,, : : : : : :,,, :,, : :,, spread : stand : standard : standing : : stated : statement : : States :,, : : stationed : :, statute : step : Stephens : : Stevens : : stewardess : still : : stood : stopped : : strange : street :, strong : : :, stuck : stuff : style : submit : : : submitted :, subtle : subtly : sufficient : suggest : : : :, suggested : suggesting : : suggestion : : suggests : : : summertime : suppose : : supposed : : suppression : Supreme :, :,, : : sure : :, : : : surely :, :, surrounding : suspected : suspicion : : sweeping : system : systematically : T T :, take : : : : : : : : taken : talk : talked : talking : :, Tallahassee : : : tautology : teach : teachings : teaspoonful : technique : : techniques : tell :, tend : : terminal : terminate : : : terminated :, : : terms : test : : : : :, : :,, :,, :, : : : :,,,,, : :,, : :,,, : :,,, :, :,, : : : testified :, : : testimony :,,, : :, : :, tests : Thank :, : their : : :,, : th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC :, : : :, :, : :, : : : :,,, : : : :, : themselves : : theoretically : theory : thighs : thing : : : : : : things : : think : : : :,,, : : : : :, :, : : :, : : :,,, :, :, :, :,, :,,, :, : :,, :,, :, : :,,, : :, :,, :,, :, : :, :, : : thinks : Thompson : :, :,, :,, :, :,,, : :,, :, :, : :, : : :,, :,,, :,,,, :,, : : :,, :, :,, : : :,, : :, : thorough : though : : thought :, : : : : : : : thoughts : threatening : : : three : : : : : : through : : :, : : : :, throughout : tickets : time : : times : tip : today : :, today's : : together : : : :, told : : tone : : top : torture : totality : : : :,,, :, : totally : : transcript : transportation : travel : : traveling : : trial :, : tried : tries : true : : try : : trying : : : : :, Tuesday : turn : turned : : turns : two : :, : : : : :, : : : :, : : : : typical : U ultimate : ultimately : unable : unambiguous :, : uncoerced : uncover :, under : :, : : : : : : : :, underlying : understand : : : : : : : unfair : unify : United :,, : : unless : : : unlike : : unpublished : :, unstructured : : until : unusually : urged : use :, :,, : used : : : : :, using : : : utter : U.S : : :, V v : : : validity : various : vehicle : very : :, : : : : : : : : : : : :, view : :,,, violate : violation :, virtually : vital : voice : : : voluntariness : : :, voluntary :,, : :, : : : : vulnerable :, W Wait : waiting : wall : want :, :,,, : : : :, : : : : : : :, :, wanted : : warm : warning :, : :, warnings : : : Washington :, : : wasn't : : : : watched : way : : : :, : : weapon : weapons : wearing :, weather : : weigh : well : :, : :, :, : :, : : :, : :, : : : : : :, :, : : :, : :, :,, : : : went : : were :, :, : :,,, : :, :, : : :, : : :,, : : :, : : :, :, : : weren't : we'll : : we're : : : : : : :,, we've : whatsoever : : : while : : whole : : willing : : withhold : withholding : witnesses : wondering : : word :, words : : : : work : workers : world :,, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC : : : : a : th : : : : a : - : worth : wouldn't : : : : write :, writing : wrong : : : : :, : wrongdoing : wrote : X :, years : - : - : - : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : th : : : th : : : : :, : : : : : : X Y : : : : th : : : : : : : th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC 