IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XTOM L. CAREY, WARDEN, Petitioner ::v. : No. -TONY EUGENE SAFFOLD. :- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XWashington, D.C.Wednesday, February , The above-entitled matter came on for oralargument before the Supreme Court of the United States at: a.m.APPEARANCES:STANLEY A. CROSS, ESQ., Supervising Deputy AttorneyGeneral, Sacramento, California; on behalf of thePetitioner.DAVID W. OGDEN, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf of theRespondent. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC C O N T E N T SORAL ARGUMENT OF STANLEY A. CROSS, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioner DAVID W. OGDEN, ESQ.On behalf of the Respondent REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OFSTANLEY A. CROSS, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioner PAGE th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC P R O C E E D I N G S(: a.m.)CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: We'll hear argumentnext in No. -, Tom L. Carey v. Tony Eugene Saffold.Mr. Cross.ORAL ARGUMENT OF STANLEY A. CROSSON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERMR. CROSS: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it pleasethe Court:AEDPA's language, purpose, and legislativehistory supports the conclusion that the circuit conflictover the meaning of pending in U.S.C., section(d)() can be resolved by reversing the Ninth Circuitfor one or more of the following three reasons. First, the Ninth Circuit improperly permitstolling for substantial delay if the State Supreme Courtaddresses the merits when denying an application forcollateral review. Second, under California's system of successiveoriginal petitions, nothing is pending under State orFederal law following the denial of an application forcollateral review and prior to the proper filing of a newapplication for review. And third, the gap theory relied upon by thedistrict court more accurately reflects congressional th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC intent and the policy judgments underlying AEDPA's -yearstatute of limitations than does the Ninth Circuit'sinterpretation of pending --QUESTION: Mr. Cross, would you explain to uswhat it is in California -- what is the system and thetime within which post-conviction relief can be appliedfor in California courts? Is there any time limit forfiling it with the trial court level?MR. CROSS: It's within a reasonable time, YourHonor, the general rule of timeliness. However, within areasonable time has parameters which I can give you thecase of In re Harris, a California Supreme Court case,which addresses that. Specifically, it says the followingin footnote . That's -- the cite is Cal.th at -. Footnote says the following. The general ruleregarding timeliness is the habeas corpus petition must befiled within a reasonable time after the petitionercounsel knew or with due diligence should have known thefacts underlying the claim, as well as the legal basis ofthe claim. They then follow that up with two significantpoints. The first is, is that ineffective assistance ofcounsel claims, which is the claim in this particularlitigation, should be filed as a verified -- excuse me --a verified petition jointly with the direct appeal. In th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC other words, if you know about the claim, you should fileit at that time. Now, as far as how long you should be able towait, the rules specifically state with regard to capitalcases, which are considered to be much more complex thanthe average non-capital case, they give them a -dayperiod in which there is a presumption of timeliness sothat there is no substantial delay. You have apresumption that you have not exceeded substantial delayif you do it within days. QUESTION: All right. Now, here there was aprompt filing in the -- at the trial court level.MR. CROSS: Pardon? QUESTION: Here there was a prompt filing at thetrial court level for habeas, State habeas. MR. CROSS: I would -- Your Honor, I wouldrespectfully disagree that it was prompt since he waited years --QUESTION: Well, all right. It was -- it waswithin the statutory period that we have imposed for thesesituations where it had -- AEDPA became effective. MR. CROSS: He filed his claim with daysremaining --QUESTION: Okay.MR. CROSS: -- in the grace period of the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC statute of limitations. QUESTION: Now, after the trial court resolvedit and denied relief, then there's no review mechanismother than filing an original writ with the court ofappeals?MR. CROSS: Correct. QUESTION: Is that how it's done?MR. CROSS: Correct, in California. QUESTION: And is that again a reasonable timeperiod within which to seek review by that mechanism inthe court of appeals? Or is there a time limit?MR. CROSS: As far as the -- the time betweeneach original petition, there is no time limit. You wouldbe looking at the overall time period because you'redealing with -- Your Honor, with original petitions here. So he has every right in California to go directly to theCalifornia Supreme Court or the Third District Court ofAppeal.QUESTION: Well, that's the traditional rule inhabeas corpus, at least in -- in England.MR. CROSS: Correct. QUESTION: Wasn't it? That you could go fromone court to another and have -- have a different judgelook at it in a different proceeding and get a differentresult. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. CROSS: Absolutely, Your Honor.QUESTION: But if he goes -- if he's -- I takeit, under the California system, if he starts in theSupreme Court of California, and there's a fact issue,they're going to say, go back to the trial court and startthere. They're not going to have a factual trial, arethey?MR. CROSS: In fact, Your Honor, I'd like tocorrect a misunderstanding that's promoted by therespondent's brief. If you look at the red brief at page, it gives the impression that you are indicating thatif you were to go directly to the California SupremeCourt --QUESTION: Whereabouts on page ?MR. CROSS: On page at the top paragraph,there's a reference in the third line to In re Hillery. Then there's a reference, the Ninth Circuit case, Harrisv. Superior Court, indicating that California appellatecourts may refuse to entertain habeas and that it be sentback to the trial court. That's an incorrect statement oflaw, and I'll refer you to the actual footnote on thatpage, footnote , referring to California Rule of Court(a)().The problem with respondent's position is thathe gives a literal quote of (a)() and it sounds like th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC that's the proposition that you're referring to, but heignores to cite to the subsection (h), which is, as ofJanuary st of this year, is now labeled subsection (i),which specifically states, quote -- and the title of thesubsection is proceedings not covered by this rule. Quote: the provisions of this rule shall not apply toapplications for a writ of habeas corpus or to petitionsfor review pursuant to rules , , and .QUESTION: Well, what happens --QUESTION: So, you -- you can begin in a highercourt.MR. CROSS: Yes. QUESTION: You don't have to begin --MR. CROSS: Right, correct. QUESTION: What happens if you do begin in ahigher court and -- and there are disputed factual issues? How do they resolve the factual issues?MR. CROSS: The -- that is explained, YourHonor, in Harris v. Superior Court, the Ninth Circuitopinion --QUESTION: Well, I haven't read --QUESTION: Why don't you tell us?MR. CROSS: I will tell you, Your Honor. The --the way it is handled is the California Supreme Courtaround set up a procedure in which for original th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC petitions in the appellate court that are filed there,either in the -- the district court of appeal or theCalifornia Supreme Court, they can have a special master,or they can send it back to the trial court, so thatthere's no prevention from them taking the court anddeciding it with or without the hearing. But a primafacie case must be made to them in order for those --QUESTION: Did -- in the proceedings involved inthis particular case, did either of the appellate courtsgo the -- do that?MR. CROSS: No. There was -- the -- thedistrict court of appeal is a one-line denial, simplystating denied. And in the California Supreme Court, thepetition was denied on the merits and for lack ofdiligence.QUESTION: But in this --QUESTION: What happens just as a practicalmatter? You go to the superior court on a collateralattack with a -- with a petition for a writ, and the courtmakes lots of findings and rulings of law. Some of thoserulings of law are absolutely wrong, but still, theultimate outcome may be in doubt. And so then thepetitioner, the original petitioner, wants to go to thecourt of appeals. Does -- does he annex what happens in-- in the superior court just for the enlightenment of the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC court of appeals as to what the issues are or what thewrong rulings were, what the right rulings were, what thefindings were? MR. CROSS: The forms, Your Honor, are in thejoint appendix where you are expected to indicate -- it's-- all three petitions use the same judicial counsel form. California Supreme Court petition -- if you want to look,it starts at page . And there -- I believe there is aquestion which asks the defendant if they've sought reviewin another court and to explain what the finding was ofthat court and what claims were requested. That would be,for example, question , did you seek review in the --excuse me. QUESTION: Well, it's just background. I -- Isee where to find it now. MR. CROSS: The -- that's the extent of it. Andso, the purpose of that question is to determine whetheror not it's a -- it's a successive petition so they cannot-- if they had gone to the lower court, it can't beremanded back because the -- if the petition has beendenied in the lower court, they don't want to send it backfor an evidentiary hearing to the same judge or court whohas gone through the proceeding before and denied it.QUESTION: Well, getting to the issue in thecase, the respondent's brief points out that under the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC theory you propose, what would happen if it's the -- theState that's appealing or filing a new -- not appealing,but filing a new action? The -- the prisoner wins in --in the lower court, and then the State files an action. How -- how would you count that or not count that so faras the limitations period is concerned?MR. CROSS: That is the most difficult questionthat is posed, without question, Your Honor. The responseI would have is it appears to me that Congress perhaps didnot think of that particular scenario other than perhapsthat under (d)()(B), the State-created impedimentissue would take care of the extreme case where the --where the State was trying to prevent the person's timefrom --QUESTION: This is the case where the petitionerprevails --MR. CROSS: Right. QUESTION: -- in superior court, and by statute,now California allows the State to appeal that.MR. CROSS: Correct, Your Honor.QUESTION: Well, certainly that would be -- thatwould be pending all that time, would it not? MR. CROSS: If you --QUESTION: Or would it not?MR. CROSS: If you take the position that it's th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC not an appellate system in a State like California, Idon't think it would be.QUESTION: Well, but you know, it can -- itcould be not an appellate system from the point of view ofthe petitioner who has to have an original petition each-- each time he goes again to a new court. But thelegislature said, with respect to the State, if the -- ifthe State loses, it can appeal, then that would be anappellate proceeding, wouldn't it?MR. CROSS: For California -- under Californialaw, Your Honor, absolutely. But as far as this statuteis concerned, I think we're interested in what the Federallaw is and how the Congress would have viewed it.QUESTION: So, looking at how Federal law --QUESTION: But I -- but -- if -- if I may, justone moment, Justice Breyer. What the Chief Justice suggests is that I -- Idid not pose a problem because what happens is is that theState simply appeals the -- what it thinks to be theerroneous ruling, and that means the action is stillpending. But I -- I thought from our earlier interchangethat you thought there was a bigger problem than that.MR. CROSS: I think there is a bigger problembecause if there is -- it depends on when finality occurs,and if -- if you have an original proceeding and the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC decision is final upon that decision, the clock would, Iwould assume, start at least under California law. Thecase laws that's referred to in the yellow brief undersubsection (c) --QUESTION: Well, but the Chief Justice suggestsit's not rocket science for us to say it's still pendingif there's an appeal.QUESTION: Well, I -- I thought your --QUESTION: Or am I missing something? QUESTION: I am confused now. I thought yourposition was that the case may well be pending, as JusticeKennedy says, but there's no application pending --MR. CROSS: Correct. QUESTION: -- on the appeal. The applicationhas been disposed of in the first court. There's anappeal, but there's no longer an application pending. Andthat's how the statute reads, not the case is pending.MR. CROSS: Right. QUESTION: There is an appeal? I thought thatwhat happened -- I guess I'm mixed up. Maybe go back toJustice O'Connor. But I thought I understood this. Ithought that they -- but that there is -- first of all,you file in the district court normally. You don't haveto in California. QUESTION: Superior. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: But almost always they'll go to thesuperior court and file a petition. And then in everyother State, the losing party would appeal, but inCalifornia, they use different words. The words are notyou appeal; the words are you file a new petition in thecourt of appeals. And indeed, if you lose there, thewords are not you have days to seek review in theSupreme Court; the words are you have whatever time youwant. You have to file a new petition in the SupremeCourt, but if you're too late, they're going to tell youyou're too late. So, it functions exactly as if the words werethe following. You must appeal within -- now, normally itwill say days, but in California it says within areasonable time. Now, those aren't the words of the statute, butthat's how it functions. And if we don't read it that wayfor purposes of Federal law, I guess we'd have to say thatin , case a year in the California superior courtsinvolving State habeas petitions -- as soon as those aredecided, they have to come here because they're all finaldecisions of the State Supreme Court. And , cases inthe courts of appeals in California. Once they saidfinal, they have to come here. So, we better have ,new petitions each year from the State of California th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC because California happens to use the word final and newpetition instead of using the word appeal.Now, what's wrong with what I said? MR. CROSS: What's wrong with what you said,Your Honor, first of all, is that although California maysay that it's final at that level, it does not prevent theindividual from going to either of the other two nextlevels or skipping one and going to the other because theyare in fact original and in fact not -- it's more thanjust mere semantics because they can go to California withdifferent claims. It doesn't have to be the same petitionat all. QUESTION: Justice Breyer suggests that when yougo, say, from the superior court to the district court ofappeal, it's -- it's like an appeal. Well, now, is therea transcript of the record made in the superior court thatyou have to file with the district court of appeal likeyou would in other appeals?MR. CROSS: Typically not. There could be somecircumstances, under rare circumstances, where thesuperior court would have some sort of evidentiaryhearing. There would be a transcript. QUESTION: Do you have to file a notice ofappeal in the superior court to go to the district courtof appeal? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. CROSS: No, Your Honor. QUESTION: In other words, in the -- I've neverheard of this, and I know a lot of California lawyers. Ithought when you go to the superior court in California --a prisoner and he says, I raise issues , , and , andthey have a record and they decide it. And now you go tothe California court of appeals. I thought in the normalcase they'll say, and the superior court judge made anerror, and the reason he made an error is because of --and then they'll cite witnesses just like an appeal. Now, I grant you they can do some extra things.They can raise extra issues if they want, and they don'thave to raise everything below like any other appeal. Butaside from that, I don't know the differences. I've beenaround for a while. I've seen a few cases. I've nevernoticed some big difference. Now, you'll tell me I'm allwrong about California, and I'm open to hearing that.MR. CROSS: The California case law, in fact,indicates that --QUESTION: I'm not interested in California caselaw. I want to know what the practice is in California. MR. CROSS: The practice is quite different fromthe description that you gave. QUESTION: Fine. That's what I want to know.MR. CROSS: In fact, there are -- I don't have th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC the exact statistics, but in my years of experience inpracticing, I have seen probably around to percentof the cases not go to the trial court, that in fact, verycommonly they go directly to the California Supreme Court,and they are denied. That's a very common experience inCalifornia --QUESTION: Then can they go -- start over againand go down to the trial court and the court of appeals?MR. CROSS: Not -- Your Honor, not on those sameclaims, they certainly can't. California and other Stateswould perhaps bar successive petitions if it's the sameclaims. It doesn't necessarily prevent them from comingback with something else that they've discovered at alater time --QUESTION: There's no bar in California to goingback as many times as you want if you have a new claimeach time? MR. CROSS: There are escape clauses inCalifornia, as well as other States, that -- that allowyou, if you discover, just like the Federal statute, newclaims. QUESTION: All right. What -- what is thegeneral rule in other States that are unlike Californiathat say you go for post-conviction relief first to thetrial court? Let them decide it. Then you have days th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC or whatever it is to go to the court of appeals. Ifthat's denied, you have X number of days to go to theState Supreme Court. Now, in a State like that, is it the case thatin applying AEDPA in this statute of limitations, that weexclude all of the time for decision making as well asthat statutory time within which to file the appeal?MR. CROSS: AEDPA grants --QUESTION: Is that what a majority of courts areholding? MR. CROSS: The majority of courts are holdingthat -- and the statute specifically provides for tollingfor all the time in which the decision -- excuse me -- inwhich the petition is before a court. That's, you know,specifically provided. QUESTION: Well, yes, but is it -- is it thecase that most courts are holding, under the scheme Idescribed, that not only while the court is deciding it,but the time allowed to enable them to go to the nexthigher court is excluded as well? MR. CROSS: The majority of courts are holdingthat you will get time for the appeal time that'sspecified by the State, for example, days or days.QUESTION: Yes, all right. So, the problem withCalifornia is we have no time specified. We have a th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC reasonable time. How are we supposed to decide what'sreasonable in California? Should we certify a questionback to the California Supreme Court and say, was this areasonable time? How do we know? MR. CROSS: One --QUESTION: What do we do?MR. CROSS: One suggestion that was made in theamicus briefs by the Criminal Justice Legal Foundation isto adopt the nearest analogous State rule, which inCalifornia under rule or through would be days. That's one thing that could be done by the court whichwould stretch the statutory language to -- to bringCalifornia into an appellate system which --QUESTION: Wouldn't that be up to California todo? What we have is a system that allows a reasonabletime. I'm asking you how we determine what is areasonable time. MR. CROSS: I think, Your Honor, the way todetermine a reasonable time would be to look at theCalifornia rules for their original habeas petitions anddetermine that under California law, we know that -- thatyou are expected to file no longer than days in acapital case without having a presumption of timeliness --QUESTION: May I just interrupt --MR. CROSS: And that would be the absolute th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC outside limit for a determination of what would bereasonable. QUESTION: But may I just ask this question? Ifin this case the California court did decide on the merits-- apparently -- it's a little ambiguous, but it seems to-- wouldn't that definitely disclose a decision that itwas reasonable? They took jurisdiction.MR. CROSS: No, Your Honor. I -- I believe thatthe -- the interpretation would be that even though a -- aState Supreme Court decided, at least alternatively on themerits -- simply indicates that for one reason or another,they decided to perhaps excuse untimeliness if they didn'thave a -- an untimeliness finding --QUESTION: To excuse untimeliness, they'resaying in this particular case we think it must have beenreasonable. Aren't -- isn't that -- doesn't thatnecessarily follow? MR. CROSS: In this particular case, they saidhe acted with a lack of diligence. QUESTION: But that might have been --QUESTION: No, but it didn't excuseuntimeliness. Untimeliness was one of the two bases fortheir decision, wasn't it? MR. CROSS: In this case, absolutely. QUESTION: We don't know whether that th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC untimeliness was the years that he took to even getstarted. There's one fact question here that may make therest of this rather abstract. This petitioner says thathe never got notice of the -- of the intermediateappellate court's decision and he -- when he did -- Imean, the only gap here that's relevant for AEDPA -- the years is gone. He gets that free. But the only gap we'retalking about, as I understand it, is the -and-a-halfmonths. And he says, as to that, I never knew. I wrote aletter and finally they told me, and within days after Igot notice, I filed in the next court. So, I was diligentfrom the time I knew of that decision. There is no -- there's been no determination byanybody whether that -and-a-half-month interval wasbeyond his control. I mean, you recognize that therewould be an exception for situations beyond his control. So, how do we determine whether there was any lack ofdiligence with respect to that -and-a-half months? Thisrecord is totally blank on it. MR. CROSS: Your Honor, this situation is evenmore perplexing than what you set forth because there arethree possibilities. One is that it's the -year periodthe California is returning to -- referring to. Anotherpossibility it's just the -and-a-half-month. And the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC third possibility is the combination of all of thoseperiods.The question simply is what is meant by timelyand what is meant by properly pursuing.QUESTION: Well, and also I think what is meantby pending because if -- if we were -- if it weredetermined that these separate matters, as you say, beforethree different courts were pending only during the timethose particular courts had them for consideration, itmight be quite a different result than if you say look atthe reasonableness of the whole series of proceedingstogether.MR. CROSS: Your Honor, absolutely that iscorrect. If we look at the language --QUESTION: Mr. Cross, as -- as I understand yoursubmission, it doesn't matter. That was not the ground onwhich the Ninth Circuit decided the case, you contend. They decided it simply on the ground that the SupremeCourt of California addressed the merits. End of case.MR. CROSS: Right. QUESTION: Right? MR. CROSS: The California Supreme Court holdingand the -- the problem it presents for the statute is --is that it eviscerates the statute by holding that as longas -- as the State Supreme Court addresses the merits, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC that regardless of the length of the delay, which could benot just -and-a-half months in this case, but -and-a-half years or -and-a-half decades, they will excuse thedelay. QUESTION: But isn't the -- the answer that --your -- your friends on the other side give a -- a goodanswer. They say, look, the -- the point of requiringspeed here is to preserve the State interest and make sureStates don't have to retry cases years and years later andthere's relative finality and so on. If the State wants to allow this kind of, ineffect, dilatory proceeding, the State has no claim to beoffended by it. It's in the State's power. So, if theState wants to give you years for habeas, the Statehasn't got any complaint. It gave the years and it canchange its rule if it wants to. What's the answer tothat? MR. CROSS: Your Honor, the answer to that isthat this is a Federal statute not a State statute. We'renot changing the --QUESTION: It is a Federal statute that is keyedto a State statute, and the point of doing this is topreserve the State's interest in -- in finality in theirown proceedings and to -- to protect the State from beingforced, in effect, to retry cases years and years in the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC future after the -- the evidence has grown stale. MR. CROSS: That's --QUESTION: And if that -- if those are theobjectives of the statute -- and I thought they were --then California, in effect, or any State can control theproceedings simply by its own time schedule. MR. CROSS: Your Honor, that is certainly one ofthe objectives of the statute, but there are a number ofpolicy interests related to the statute of limitationsitself which is part of AEDPA. You're absolutely correctin that finality is one of the three main concerns ofAEDPA itself, but there are other concerns and policyconcerns related to the statute itself. QUESTION: Mr. Cross, a State Supreme Court thathad that attitude, that didn't care that you were late,would not -- would not have dismissed this case on twogrounds, one of which is it's untimely. That's not whatwe have here. We don't have a situation in which theCalifornia Supreme Court said, we don't care how late itis; we're going to decide it on the merits. It decided ontwo grounds, one of which is you -- you are too late underour -- under our rules. And -- and the Ninth Circuit justignored that. Isn't that right? MR. CROSS: That's absolutely right, Your Honor.QUESTION: Isn't the counter argument equally th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC possible? A State that was really concerned abouttimeliness would not have decided the case also on themerits as an alternative ground. Therefore, if it doesdecide that it's significant enough to get into themerits, we ought to take the -- the State Supreme Court atits word and say, if there was a merits determination, itobviously was not untimely in -- in any dispositive sense. Why isn't that an equally good interpretation? MR. CROSS: I think, Your Honor, this Court hasstated before in Coleman v. Thompson that we -- that youdon't want to direct the State courts how to issue theirrulings for whatever State reasons they have for doing it.QUESTION: No, but when the State says twothings and they seem to be in contradiction -- if it'suntimely, then you don't get to the merits. It's -- it'sunreasonable in time. If you do get to the merits, itsuggests that there is something timely about it.And all, I think, the Ninth Circuit was sayingand all I'm suggesting is we're not mind readers. Wecan't say, well, we guess they really meant the first partof -- the first reason they gave or they really meant thesecond reason. We're simply going to come up with a --with a rule that everyone will understand and that theState courts can understand. And if they get to the merits, we're going to th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC deem it timely because we -- we assume these people arenot going to be reaching merits decisions on -- on mattersthat are totally untimely under their law. Why -- whydoesn't that respect the State courts, give a rule thateverybody pretty much can follow and know where he stands?MR. CROSS: Your Honor, because it would, ineffect, eviscerate the statute of limitations underFederal law. If you have unlimited tolling for or years, there is not much left of the -year Federalstatute of limitations. And under Harris v. Reed,alternative --QUESTION: What's left is a -year Federalstatute of limitations after the conclusion of the Stateproceedings, and if the State proceedings were begun in atimely fashion, I don't know what else the statute issupposed to accomplish. MR. CROSS: Well, Your Honor, the statute --statutory schemes across the country -- there's a widevariety, of which there are over States that have nostatute of limitations.QUESTION: Do you know how the CaliforniaSupreme Court operates generally with respect to petitionsof this kind, post-conviction petitions? Is it common forthem to say on the merits, but anyway it's untimely, or dothey often say it's untimely, that's the end of it without th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC going on to the merits? MR. CROSS: It's usually a combination, YourHonor. There's in fact, a dispute between the members ofthe California Supreme Court as to whether to even poseprocedural bars. Justice Brown has argued that it onlyshould be addressed on the merits. So, there's acombination usually or sometimes just a denial on themerits. If you don't mind, Your Honor, I'd like toreserve the remainder of my time. QUESTION: Very well, Mr. Cross. Mr. Ogden, we'll hear from you.ORAL ARGUMENT OF DAVID W. OGDENON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTMR. OGDEN: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it pleasethe Court:I would like to go directly to the two mostdifficult questions that I need to answer this morning andwhich have been addressed extensively thus far.First, that the rule adopted by the -- by theunanimous courts of appeals that any gaps between stagesof the State habeas process should be tolled so long asthe next stage is initiated in a timely fashion shouldapply to California. And second -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: What happens if it -- go on. Give usyour second --MR. OGDEN: And -- and the second point that I'dlike to address is that under that rule on the record inthis case, there is an insufficient basis to conclude thatthe filing in the State Supreme Court was late andtherefore that the judgment below should be affirmed.QUESTION: Are you going to cover the questionof whether these various actions were pending and for howlong? MR. OGDEN: Yes, Your Honor. That's the first-- that's -- that's the first subject that I'd like tocover because I know that one of the concerns and one ofthe difficulties of this case is applying the concepts ofthe statute to California's unique system. Now, California's system of original writ shouldbe subject to the rule that tolls the entire period oftime for two reasons. First, that is the bestunderstanding of the text of the statute becauseCalifornia's system --QUESTION: The text of AEDPA or the text ofCalifornia's statute?MR. OGDEN: Of AEDPA, Your Honor, of -- ofsection (d)().Because California's system functions as an th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC integrated appellate style process for prisoners seekingto exhaust State remedies. And second, because just as in other States, theso-called gap theory espoused by the State woulddiscourage prisoners from making full use of California'sprocess and encourage premature Federal filings. Now, turning to the text of the statute -- andJustice Scalia asked about the -- about the wordapplication in particular -- Congress wrote a statute ingeneral terms intended to apply nationwide. It does notturn on the particular form of pleading or the nature ofthe action. To the contrary, an application within themeaning of the statute is simply a request for relief solong as it is submitted in the context of, as the statutephrases it, State post-conviction or other collateralreview. Now, that request for relief is distinct fromthe claims that support it, and it is pending so long asit -- as it is unresolved in the State system. QUESTION: You -- you say the -- the applicationis distinct from the claim. Granted, both words -- howdoes that work out? MR. OGDEN: The claims are the arguments thatsupport the request for relief in -- in a habeas or post-conviction context. Typically the request is to be th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC released from an unconstitutional confinement. Thatrequest is supported by -- by a set of claims. And -- andit's the request that constitutes the application. QUESTION: But, you know, we were confrontedwith precisely the same argument in Artuz which dealt withwhat constitutes a properly filed application. And theargument was if the claim is not a proper claim, if itdoes not lie under the State law, it is not a properlyfiled application. And we held, no, that's not so. Anapplication is an application and a claim is -- is aclaim. And the -- the application is properly filed solong as it's given to the -- you know, to the proper clerkin the proper court and -- and so forth. Now, dealingwith the very same -- very same provision of law. MR. OGDEN: Yes, Your Honor. I believe myargument is entirely consistent with Artuz. Indeed, it's-- it's really based on the reasoning there. Artuz makes a distinction between bars that goto claims and bars that go to the form of the -- of theapplication itself. My submission is that the applicationis the request for relief, that is, regardless of whatform it takes and what kind of proceeding, it is a requestthat contains claims in the same way that an applicationcontains claims. A request is an application. And thatrequest, the request for relief, continues to be pending th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC within the meaning of the statute until the -- until it isresolved within the State system. Now, in the California system, that request forrelief, that request to be released from confinement,continues to be unresolved so long as there is anothercourt to which one can bring a -- a petition to review adecision. QUESTION: Or presumably you could go back andforth to a number of California courts, if you come upwith, you know, a different argument and that sort ofthing.MR. OGDEN: Yes, Your Honor, you could presentdifferent claims. But the way the California systemfunctions is that the -- the design of it where factualdevelopment is required, quite naturally, is that thatclaim should be brought in the superior court. As we say in our brief, if you attempt to filean original petition initially in a higher court andfactual development is required, typically if it's a non-capital case, what that court will do is to issue an orderto show cause, returnable in the superior court. And onceyou are there as a -- as a petitioner, if you lose, youronly recourse for further review is to file an originalpetition yet again above. Now, critically from the standpoint of th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC understanding whether this is an appellate system or asystem of completely independent free-standingapplications, it's important to understand that when onegoes from the superior court where one develops a record,Your Honor, to -- to the court of appeal, that -- thatnext filing is not considered a successive petition underCalifornia law. It's not considered a second --QUESTION: What do you mean -- what do you meanby a -- do you mean the same thing as an originalpetition?MR. OGDEN: It's called an original writ.QUESTION: Yes. So, what -- what do you mean bythe term successive? MR. OGDEN: Successive petition is a proceduralbar under California law, which if you bring a secondpetition that contains claims that could have been, butwere not, contained in your first petition or thatcontains the same claims as were contained in your firstpetition, it's dismissed as a matter of procedural law inCalifornia as a successive petition. That successivepetition bar does not apply --QUESTION: What does it look like in practice? I mean, I had thought, as you were saying, that whateverthey call it, they call the trial court original, theycall the court of appeals original, they call the supreme th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC court original. But despite that, to an outside observerwho wasn't looking at the names, it would look pretty muchlike any other State where you get an initial hearing andthen you get some appeals. Now, there's obviously the difference, you couldfile new claims at the second level, but leaving thataside, it would look -- now, the attorney general said I'mwrong on that, absolutely wrong, that that isn't what itlooks like, that sometimes at least it's random, sometimesthey -- they -- just as many might likely file, I guess,in the court of appeals as the district court. They mightfile in the supreme court. Maybe they look for appeal inthe -- in the trial court. I don't know. But it's arandom and -- and, indeed, if you go to the court ofappeals, you'll see they don't even look at the record inthe trial court.All right. Now, he says that's how it's worked. He's been around a long time. And at that point, I'm notsure what to do frankly. MR. OGDEN: Well -- well, it's -- it isdifficult because so much of this turns on California law. But --QUESTION: I mean, what does it look like? Idon't know how you get to that question.MR. OGDEN: Well, what -- what it looks like, as th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC described in a case called In re Resendez, which is notcited in our brief is --QUESTION: You didn't -- MR. OGDEN: P.d, Pacific Second, .QUESTION: What's the date of that case?MR. OGDEN: It's , Your Honor. QUESTION: Pacific Second? MR. OGDEN: Pacific Third, at .That -- that case makes clear in discussing thesituation in which a subsequent original writ is filed --originally filed in the superior court and you havefindings of fact made by the superior court. It is thenfiled subsequently in the court of appeal and then --QUESTION: When you say it is then filed, whatdo you mean by it? MR. OGDEN: A petition encompassing the sameclaims is filed in the court of appeal and then again inthe supreme court. First of all, the record is -- the recordgenerally forms the basis for that review. And in Gardneragainst California in , looking at this very systemfor -- for handling habeas petitions on original writ,this Court decided that the system was sufficientlysimilar to an appellate process that a habeas petitionerfiling an original writ in the court of appeal was th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC entitled at State expense to a transcript of theproceeding in the -- in the superior court because theprocedure in the court of appeal is essentially recordreview. QUESTION: Mr. -- Mr. Cross said -- and it wouldbe extraordinary if it's record review, but you don't haveto file the record. When -- when you go into the court ofappeals, do you have to file the record of -- of thedecision below? MR. OGDEN: You certainly can file the recordand the clerk can request it. QUESTION: Do you have to?QUESTION: Do you have to?MR. OGDEN: I don't know the answer to that,Your Honor, as to whether it's required. QUESTION: Is it ordinarily done?MR. OGDEN: I -- I think ordinarily there -- therecord consists of the petition and the decision below.But if there is a hearing where witnesses are presented, Ibelieve it is ordinarily done, and that's why --QUESTION: That's not what the -- that's notwhat Mr. Cross said. MR. OGDEN: That's --QUESTION: What is your -- I mean, Mr. Crossapparently has been practicing in California for years. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC I think if you're going to make -- you don't claim to bepersonally familiar with California law, do you?MR. OGDEN: No, I don't, Your Honor. QUESTION: Okay. Then I think perhaps youshould cite some authority. MR. OGDEN: Well, I -- I cite for theproposition that -- that the record is part of the -- theprocess in the court of appeal, both the Resendez case --QUESTION: But you say the record is part of theprocess in the court of appeal. That's a very, very vaguestatement. MR. OGDEN: Well --QUESTION: What we want to know is typically inan appeal, you'd have a record from the superior court. You're appealing from the superior court or the districtcourt of appeal, you have to -- you must file the record. It's a part of the -- before the court of appeals willhear your claim. MR. OGDEN: The best I can do, Your Honor, is torefer to these three cases -- the Resendez case, theCalifornia Supreme Court decision at -- which I've giventhe cite for; In re Wright, which is Cal. App. d at to ; People against Singer, which is Cal. App.d at -- which make clear that the process of reviewingthese matters coming from the superior court where there's th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC been a prior petition there and the same claims arebrought in the next court is a process of reviewing therecord, and where what is presented are findings of factby the superior court that are based on credibilitydeterminations, great weight is given to those credibilitydeterminations by the reviewing court. And -- and that isthe -- the fundamental functionality, the way the systemworks. It can be used in other ways without question. A petitioner can attempt to file, you know, claims at ahigher level. QUESTION: You've practiced here a lot. I mean,if the -- if the superior court decision in a State habeasmatter is a final decision and there's no more review ofit in the State, I guess then we have jurisdiction toreview that. But I have never seen someone come heredirectly from the decision of the superior court ofCalifornia in a State habeas matter. Maybe they justhaven't thought of it. MR. OGDEN: Well, no, Your Honor, they're notpermitted to, and I think that's a very important --QUESTION: We wouldn't issue habeas when -- whenyou have failed to exhaust all of your State remedieswhether it's by appeal or not by appeal. If you stillhave State remedies available, we wouldn't issue Federal th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC habeas. It -- it would be useless to come here.MR. OGDEN: This -- this Court's decision in theO'Sullivan case has been applied by the Ninth Circuit in-- in the case called James against Giles, which statesthat it is a requirement, in order to fully exhaust one'sState remedies, that one file and submit one's claims tothe California Supreme Court. QUESTION: Of course, and that applies whetherit's an appeal or whether it's an independent action. Imean, it -- it sheds no light upon -- upon the centralissue here. MR. OGDEN: Well, I --QUESTION: Whichever one it is, you have toexhaust those remedies before you apply for Federalhabeas.MR. OGDEN: I think it sheds substantial lighton it, Your Honor, because as was made clear in Duncanagainst Walker by this Court, the very purpose of thistolling provision is to facilitate and to, indeed, promotethe full and complete exhaustion of State remedies. QUESTION: Okay. Well, let me ask you this. Suppose that a -- a prisoner has filed in California forState post-conviction review in the superior court andthen in the court of appeals and then makes no filing inthe State supreme court, could but years go by. Then th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC there's a petition filed for habeas in the Federal court. Now, the Federal court under your view presumably wouldhave to say, no, it's still pending in the State court.MR. OGDEN: I believe the appropriate course forthe Federal court in that situation --QUESTION: What would you do? MR. OGDEN: -- would be to apply this Court'sdecision in O'Sullivan against Boerckel and deem thepetition to be unexhausted. At that point, the petitionercould apply to the California Supreme Court.QUESTION: And say it is unexhausted and -- andthe -- a Federal statute of limitations hasn't run. MR. OGDEN: Because simply it's unknowable. Youasked the question earlier whether -- who decides whetherit's a reasonable time or not, and I think it's very clearthe design of the statute of -- of (d)() is that theState of California decides. Whether something continuesto be pending in exhaustion law is a question of whetherit is possible whether there is a -- an availableprocedure under State law to raise the claim to a higherlevel. QUESTION: Okay. Let's -- let's continue thathypothetical that Justice O'Connor gives. There's a longwait, years of wait. They go to the -- the prisoner goesto the California Supreme Court. The California Supreme th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Court said, you are late. You have lacked diligence. Wewill not rule on the merits. Dismissed. When does theFederal statute -- how does the Federal statute applythere?MR. OGDEN: That implicates a -- a circuit splitthat's not presented in this case, Your Honor. There is adifference of opinion among the circuits about how toapply the -- the endpoint of -- of the tolling process. In the majority of circuits, tolling terminates at thepoint it is no longer possible to file a --QUESTION: What is the position that you urgeupon us here in that instance? MR. OGDEN: Your Honor, I don't believe it's --it is important for my client what the answer to thatquestion is because the second point I want to make thismorning is that the submission to the California SupremeCourt was not late under California law. QUESTION: I'm trying to -- I'm trying tointerpret the statute, and so I imagined this case and Iwant to know how it would come out --MR. OGDEN: I think the most --QUESTION: -- under your view.MR. OGDEN: I'm sorry. I think the most naturalinterpretation of the statute is the majority of thecourt's view which is that it continues to be pending th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC until it is too late to file a submission, and then theopportunity to file -- if you file for leave to file outof time, that would then resume the tolling if that motionwere granted. In California, that --QUESTION: Retroactively. I mean, there's asplit. There are real problems and -- and those problems,as well as the problems with the California system, seemto me good reason to read the statute the way it's writtenso that there has to be an application pending, not -- nota case pending, but an application. On appeal, it couldbe the application of either the petitioner or thegovernment if it lost, but the only time counted is the --is the time during the pending application. Then youwould not have to worry about these problems. Whathappens if they accept a -- you know, a late petition? Does it automatically toll retroactively for the -- forthe period after the due date and so forth? MR. OGDEN: Your Honor --QUESTION: None of those problems exist if you-- if you say it's pending when it's pending. MR. OGDEN: I think those problems are morecomplicated in a system like California's or NorthCarolina's which is an appellate system that involves anunreasonable delay standard than they are in a -- in asystem that has clear time lines. And California and th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC North Carolina, if they don't like the way it's playingout under their provisions, can simply create timelines --QUESTION: Mr. Ogden --QUESTION: Just so -- just so I understand youranswer. In the case that I put that I didn't quite getthe whole -- the California court says, you've waited years. That's too late. How do I apply the statute oflimitations to that context or the pending rule that we'rediscussing? MR. OGDEN: I -- I believe there are about threedifferent ways that you can --QUESTION: And what is -- what is yoursubmission as to how we ought to interpret the rule inthat instance? MR. OGDEN: My submission would be that untilthe California Supreme Court indicates how long the timeperiod is that -- that he would have had to file, the bestthing to do is to look to evidence of other cases thathave been decided by California to determine what is anacceptable gap in the process. And that's why in this case the evidence isabsolutely overwhelming that the -and-a-half-month periodthat the State relies on simply wasn't the basis for theCalifornia Supreme Court's decision. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: How is that? It seems to me therecord is a blank on that, and with all this talk, if youdon't count those -and-a-half months, he's timely no --no matter whether it's discrete applications. So, what dowe do? He says, I never got that notice. And it's notestablished in the record whether he did or he didn't. MR. OGDEN: Well, the only evidence in therecord is that he did not. He submitted a sworn statementto that effect in the California Supreme Court in hispetition. But as the Ninth Circuit said, there are twopossible bases for the lack of diligence finding in therecord. One is years before he filed his initial claim. The other is this -and-a-half-month period in which hesays and swears that he did not receive notice. The -- when you look at the record of the minuteorders that have been entered by California on the veryday and in the very weeks -- the California Supreme Court-- around when Mr. Saffold's case was dismissed, you seethat cases -- for example, the Davis case. There was an-month gap between the decision in the court of appealand the petition in the California Supreme Court, and theCalifornia Supreme Court simply denied it, which under theYlst standard, looking through, goes back to the meritsdetermination before. No lack of diligence, no th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC untimeliness. In the Sampson case, over months had elapsedbetween the court of appeal decision and the supreme courtdecision. Again, absolutely no indication of a lack ofdiligence or untimeliness. In the Viegas case, over months elapsedbetween the court of appeal and the decision -- and thepetition. No explanation from Mr. Viegas, as there wasn'tfrom Davis and nothing meaningful from Sampson for thedelay again. And the Saenz case is another. So, there are those four --QUESTION: Is -- is there any -- somepossibility that those perhaps inconsistent rulings comingfrom the Supreme Court of California might be based onwhat Mr. Cross referred to as the division of opinionwithin that court as to whether they should give any sortof an explanation? MR. OGDEN: Your Honor, I think anything ispossible because, as -- as somebody said, we're in a mind-reading mode here, and so certainly that's possible. AndI can't stand here and tell you it is impossible that theysimply acted in an -- in an irrational and inconsistentfashion. The fact is while Mr. Saffold submitted a -- anexplanation which, at least on the surface, has some th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC appeal to it, none of these others did, and yet muchlonger periods of time --QUESTION: That's not the basis on which theNinth Circuit decided the case. It did not resolvewhether, you know, the -and-a-half or the other one. It-- it did not do it. It just simply said, since theSupreme Court of California alternatively addressed themerits, that's the end of it. And so you're -- you're notdefending their basis for -- for deciding the case?MR. OGDEN: I think it's somewhat unclear whatthe Ninth Circuit's basis was, Your Honor. I concedethat. To the extent that the Ninth Circuit held that a --a ruling on the merits would trump a clear finding by the-- by the California Supreme Court that the petition to itwas untimely, I think that would be an -- an incorrectinterpretation of the statute. That's my view. QUESTION: What would you say to the possibilitythat we might certify the question to the CaliforniaSupreme Court whether this case was dismissed because itwas untimely? MR. OGDEN: The critical question would bewhether the case was dismissed based on the gap betweenthe court of appeal and the supreme court as opposed tothe -- the portion that preceded the original filing inthe -- in the trial court which obviously could not make th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC the case stop pending once it began to pend. But I believe that certification would not fitthe profile in California for certified questions. They-- they certify questions of law, and this is -- this isan --QUESTION: Have -- have any courts consideringthis AEDPA statute applied it in the way Justice Scaliasuggests that we look at pending and place all theemphasis there and exclude all time after a decision by aState court until the next filing? MR. OGDEN: courts of appeals have consideredthat issue to this point, Your Honor, and all haveadopted the view that the entire period of time should betolled. QUESTION: Were any of them dealing with asystem like California's? MR. OGDEN: The Ninth Circuit in this case andin the Nino case previously, but no other -- no other --none of the other cases really deal with that --QUESTION: Can we use Justice Scalia -- he justsuggested an idea that -- that -- if this is rightfactually as to how it works. Suppose you go into thedistrict court -- the superior court, trial court. Allright. Now I get a decision there. Now, I take it, underCalifornia law, I cannot file a complaint about how the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC judge decided it, i.e., an appeal, quotes, in any othersuperior court, but I can do it in a higher court. Am Iright? Because they'll treat it as successive if I go tothe parallel level, but if I go to the next level, theywon't treat it as successive. MR. OGDEN: That's my understanding. QUESTION: But then if in fact I wait too long,I'm beyond a reasonable time. MR. OGDEN: That's correct. QUESTION: And so, to put in terms of exhausted,unexhausted as if he did -- as he did, you'd say the onlyunexhausted remedy you have left to you, once you're inthe superior court, is to go up, as long as you do itwithin a reasonable time. But once you exceed thereasonable time, you're out.MR. OGDEN: That's correct. QUESTION: All right. So, what we would have tosay is that that system, looking to the exhausted insteadof the technical word appeal, we'd get to approximatelythe same place, and then our issue would be, well, wasthis beyond a reasonable time or not. And then I'd haveto say maybe we don't know. We'd have to find out in someway or other. That -- that --MR. OGDEN: Well, I think the generaldescription is fine and I think it's true that we don't th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC know whether it was considered unreasonable by theCalifornia Supreme Court. QUESTION: I mean, I can't see how we can acceptthe Ninth Circuit's reasoning frankly because they saidthe very fact that they say both, the very fact that theysay we'll consider it on the merits but it's untimely,that that means that it wasn't untimely. Of course, theydidn't use the word untimely. They used a different wordwhich is harder to understand. MR. OGDEN: Your Honor, I think that we -- it's-- while we don't know, I think that a fair reading ofthis record would lead one to the conclusion that it wasnot the -and-a-half months. When we have four othercases, two of them decided the same day, one of themdecided --QUESTION: But it's way beyond what any otherState would have, isn't it? -and-a-half months? Unlessthere's some excuse here that he didn't get the record orhe didn't know about it. MR. OGDEN: Well, North Carolina has an unduedelay standard. Massachusetts, until just very recently,as the First Circuit explained in the Curry case just lastweek, previously had no time limit, has now imposed a -day time limit presumably to deal with some of theseproblems. The times in other States vary. -and-a-half th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC months is -- is somewhat longer than the certiorari timein this Court, but it's not by an entire order ofmagnitude. And the point is that the California SupremeCourt routinely seems to reach the merits despite thisperiod. And in this case we have a -year delay staringus in the face in which the only justification offered byMr. Saffold was that he needed to hire a privateinvestigator to -- essentially to interview the jurors. The magistrate judge in this case, applying the duediligence standard of Federal law, which is in --QUESTION: This was a Federal magistrate?MR. OGDEN: The Federal magistrate, yes, YourHonor, in -- in this case applying the Federal duediligence standard. Mr. Saffold suggested that the timeshould be tolled for -- for the running of the entireperiod because he had not discovered these claims. Andthe Federal magistrate, looking at it, said, well, youshould have discovered these claims long before. youdidn't exercise due diligence. I think looking at the face -- at the -- at thejoint appendix at , looking at the face of theapplication Mr. Saffold submitted to the CaliforniaSupreme Court where he attempts to justify the years onthat basis and notes, with respect to the -and-a-half th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC months, that he only received notice the very day hefiled, the only reasonable interpretation is that theyrelied on the years, a period of time irrelevant to thequestion of whether review in the supreme court wasunavailable. And therefore, it is -- it is -- it would beunreasonable for this Court to suppose that -- that theperiod was the -and-a-half months.This is somewhat similar to the approach toquestions of -- of -- related to procedural bars that thisCourt adopted and modified in the Coleman against Thompsoncase where -- where an underlying State decision leavesreason to question whether the Federal bar is applicable,this Court has gone ahead and decided the -- the merits ofthe Federal claim because it's entirely within the powerof the State, the State of California or in the Coleman v.Thompson circumstance, to be clear about the fact thatwhat was the period and when did it expire, oralternatively, simply like most States, to have a clear,definable period of time in which --QUESTION: Didn't the -- didn't the superiorcourt here, or at least the magistrate did, made aspecific finding to the effect that the -month delay wasnot excusable, that it was an excessive delay? Wasn'tthere that finding below? MR. OGDEN: The magistrate did not find that he th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC received notice earlier than he says. What the magistratesaid was that he should have been more diligent in callingthe court and contacting them and so forth. QUESTION: But it was a finding that the -month period was the -- was a period of inexcusable delay.MR. OGDEN: He indicated -- suggested that hewould not --QUESTION: So, to say that that couldn't havebeen what the supreme court was thinking of strikes me asimplausible. MR. OGDEN: Your Honor, I'm not saying that itcouldn't be. I'm saying it's far less likely that it was.QUESTION: But that wasn't reviewed by the NinthCircuit. MR. OGDEN: No. Indeed, the Ninth Circuit leftopen the question of equitable tolling which depends onthat -- on that fact. And furthermore, again, it doesn'tgo to whether he received notice. It's simply the opinionof the magistrate that he should have called the court orsent a letter to the court or done something within that-and-a-half-month period. QUESTION: I do -- I do want, if I can, veryquickly to get to the question that Mr. Cross said wasvery difficult and you raise it at pages and of your th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC brief. You say what -- what happens if the -- under thetheory that the petitioner proposes, if the State files anappeal when the State has lost. And the Chief Justicesaid, well, that shouldn't be a problem because we canthen easily say that the application is still pending. How long does the State have to appeal generally? MR. OGDEN: I believe it's days inCalifornia. QUESTION: So, then -- so, then it seems to methat isn't a problem. A, it's just days, and B, youcan say that it's still pending. So, that's not a bigproblem. Mr. Cross, whose right of rebuttal we'vedemolished, so I can't ask him, has said that that's avery hard question. MR. OGDEN: Well, I think it's a very hardquestion for him because his -- his gap theory taken toits literal extreme, taken to -- to the application thatit would -- that -- that gaps are not tolled, even in a --an appeals situation, would cause that entire period oftime on the State's clock to run. QUESTION: But why can't we easily say theapplication is pending so long as the State has anappeal --MR. OGDEN: Well, that -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: -- prevail? MR. OGDEN: That would -- that would underminethe so-called gap theory in every State but -- butCalifornia where typically you do have appeals on bothsides. In California, you have a State appeal and afunctional appeal on the petitioner's side. And so, theargument could be made -- I think it's a hyper-technicalargument. I think it's an argument that's inconsistentwith the purpose of this statute, but you could make thehyper-technical argument that because California givesunequal rights to the two sides, an appeal on the one handand a functional appeal on the other, we're going to treatthe functional appeal in a different way for Federalpurposes. I would submit there is no way that Congressintended to take a functional appeal that has the purposeof -- of presenting claims that are required forexhaustion and said, we want to treat that differentlybecause it's merely a functional appeal, not a realappeal. That makes no sense. All of the reasons why tolling should apply inthe gaps prescribed by the State, the period the Statebelieves is appropriate for the presentation of theseclaims, the period the State believes prisoners shouldhave in order to prepare and present their claims, that th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC we're not going to toll that, the consequence of that willbe that petitioners will not wait for the transcript. They will file their -- their motions in the -- in thecourt of appeal without transcripts. They will notdevelop their arguments well, and then those argumentswill finally be made for the first time effectively in theFederal court. That is not what was intended by thestatute.QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. Ogden. Mr. Cross, you have minute remaining. REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF STANLEY A. CROSSON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERMR. CROSS: I think the answer to Mr. Ogden,Your Honor, is that the reason would be that Congress wasconcerned about undue delay. In the last years beforeAEDPA was passed, over bills were attempted to -- todeal with this problem. And lack of diligence bypetitioners was the main concern of Congress, and theydealt with that by writing into the statute the followingphrase. (d)() at page of the blue brief. Quote,the time during which a properly filed application forState post-conviction or other collateral review withrespect to the pertinent judgment or claim is pendingshall not be counted toward any limitation under thissubsection. They did not choose to use the -- the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC language petition in (b)(), nor did they choose touse the language in (d)()(A) of the time for seekingsuch review. They chose application for the reason thatJustice Scalia was talking about. They were concernedthat there would be undue delay in between applications.CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: Thank you, Mr. Cross.The case is submitted. (Whereupon, at : p.m., the case in theabove-entitled matter was submitted.) th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC 