 IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XKHANH PHUONG NGUYEN, Petitioner ::v. : No. -UNITED STATES; and TUYET MAI THI PHAN, Petitioner:::v. : No. -UNITED STATES. :- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XWashington, D.C.Monday, March , The above-entitled matter came on for oral argument before the Supreme Court of the United States at: a.m.APPEARANCES:JEFFREY T. GREEN, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf of thePetitioners.PATRICIA A. MILLETT, ESQ., Assistant to the SolicitorGeneral, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; onbehalf of the Respondent. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC C O N T E N T SORAL ARGUMENT OF JEFFREY T. GREEN, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioners PATRICIA A. MILLETT, ESQ.On behalf of the Respondent REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OFJEFFREY T. GREEN, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioners PAGE th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC P R O C E E D I N G S(: a.m.)CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: We'll hear argumentfirst in Number -, Khanh Phuong Nguyen versus theUnited States and a companion case.Mr. Green.ORAL ARGUMENT OF JEFFREY T. GREENON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERSMR. GREEN: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it pleasethe Court:The issue in this case is whether theparticipation of a non-Article III judge on an improperlyconstituted panel of the Ninth Circuit Court of Appealsrenders the decision of that panel void.The parties are in agreement that the designation of Judge Munson, who sits for a -year termon the Ninth Circuit panel, violated the statutepertaining to designations. But that statute does morework than simply govern designations. That statuteprotects the Article III character of the circuit courtsof appeals by ensuring that only Article III judges aredesignated to sit on the Circuit courts of appeals.QUESTION: Counsel, may I ask you, in this case, isit possible that a quorum of the court would consist oftwo members of a three-member panel on the court of th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC appeals?MR. GREEN: Yes. A properly constitutedquorum -- or a quorum of a properly constituted panelcould -- could be two members. But our objection here,Justice O'Connor, is with the participation of a judgewho, with all due respect, had no business being there inthe first place.QUESTION: Right. Even -- even though the panelwas unanimous.MR. GREEN: Even though the panel was unanimous.QUESTION: Now, if -- if we were to agree withyou and it went back, could the same two remaining judgesconstitute a properly arranged panel and decide the caseagain?MR. GREEN: No, for -- for two reasons. Principally because the rules that govern quorum call fora -- a two-member panel rather than a three-member panelwhen there's some emergency that's certified or whenthere's a disqualification or recusal. So I -- I thinkthere --however.QUESTION: The same two could be on a new panel,MR. GREEN: I would maintain not in this casefor the simple reason that it appears that there has beensome participation in the preparation of respondent's th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC brief by the Chief Judge, as well as Judge Goodwin. So wewould maintain, given that involvement, it would be bestto send this back to a newly constituted andproperly constituted --QUESTION: Is this -- is this a right that canbe waived? No objection was made to this.MR. GREEN: It is a right that can be waived,Justice O'Connor. There's -- there -- that's -- that Ithink is beyond peradventure. But I don't think there waswaiver here because there's no record evidence thatindicates that there was a waiver. This Court in New Yorkv. Hill, for example, found a waiver --QUESTION: There was no objection.QUESTION: I'm surprised you say that there canbe a waiver. So the Ninth Circuit could routinely send out to its litigants a waiver notice waiving participationof non-Article III personnel and there would be nostructural objection? I -- I thought --MR. GREEN: Well, I think --QUESTION: I thought the whole point of -- ofyour -- of your error analysis is this affects thestructural integrity of the court and it can't be waived.MR. GREEN: Well, the additional point I wasgoing to make in response to Justice O'Connor's questionis that, in fact, even though there may be consent or even th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC though there may be waiver, that has not stopped thisCourt from considering these important structurallimitations in the past.QUESTION: Well, but what -- what is yourposition? Can the right be waived or not? I mean, if --if you say the right can be waived, then it's just aquestion of whether or not they knew or should have knownor something like that.MR. GREEN: I think that the decision is void,and so the position -- the position would be that althoughall Article III provisions can be waived, in this instancebecause of the nature of the structural error, the consentor the waiver would not matter at all.QUESTION: Well, then -- then your -- counselcould have appeared in the Ninth Circuit fully aware that Judge Munson was sitting, go all the way through theargument and the briefing, never mentioning a word aboutit, and still the counsel would have the ability to voidthe thing later.MR. GREEN: I -- I think that's -- that'scorrect. I think that would be the necessary consequence.QUESTION: And not to void if he -- if he won.Right?QUESTION: And not to void it if he won.QUESTION: That's a nice position to be in. You th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC just sit there, don't make any objection. If you win thecase, everything is fine, and if you lose the case, youplay dog in the manger and -- and come up here and say,oop, this was an improper panel. That doesn't sound to methe -- the -- like the way the system ought to work.MR. GREEN: But, Justice Scalia, I think thatrelies upon counsel in that situation being confident thatthis Court would grant a writ of certiorari. I -- Ithink that that kind of gamesmanship is really quitefar-fetched. This Court does not sit as a court oferrors. So even though I as counsel know that that mightbe error below, I would still have to -- I would have tobe relying on the -- the equivalent of legal lightningstriking, so to speak, in order to -- to be certain thatthat error would be corrected.QUESTION: Mr. Green, how does Article III --how can Article III be claimed by your client who wastried not before an Article III court, before aterritorial court -- your client has no entitlement to anArticle III court. So this seems -- you're addressing anabstract question about the proper composition of a NinthCircuit panel. Yet, your litigant, your client has noentitlement to an Article III tribunal either at trial oron appeal. So I think that there's a serious problem ofwhether your clients are positioned to raise the proper th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC composition of an Article III court when they are not evenentitled to an Article III court.MR. GREEN: That is true as a general matter atthe trial court stage. However, it -- it's very much ourposition here -- and I would disagree with the premiseonly insofar as you said as to the court of appeals. Congress vested jurisdiction, pursuant to U.S.C.,section , over appeals from the territories in theUnited States Circuit Court of Appeals.QUESTION: Yes, but it didn't have to. In otherwords, a case -- an Article III -- a case in whichlitigants are entitled to an Article III tribunal thenmust go to an Article III court. Here Congress diddesignate the Ninth Circuit to hear these appeals fromnon-Article III trial courts. But your clients --Congress didn't have to do that with respect to yourclients. Congress could have given them an Article IVappellate tribunal and that would have been okay.MR. GREEN: No. I -- When Congress vestsjurisdiction in the United States courts of appeals, itdoes so not only to its -- in accordance not only with itsplenary power over the territories under Article IV, butalso pursuant to Article III. When Congress creates anyinferior court and creates a jurisdiction in those courts,we would maintain that -- that Congress is acting pursuant th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC to Article III. And in this instance --QUESTION: But when Congress created thedistrict court for the Northern Marianas, for Guam, whatauthority was it exercising?MR. GREEN: It was -- it was exercising itsplenary authority pursuant to Article IV.QUESTION: I -- I assume you've got a -- maybeI'm wrong, but I assume you've got a fall-back and thatis, okay, if you don't accept -- we don't accept theconstitutional position, you're still claiming that youhave a legal entitlement to the Ninth Circuit and, hence,to a completely Article III court.MR. GREEN: That -- that's exactly correct.QUESTION: And that could be true if Congresswas acting under -- under Article IV.MR. GREEN: That -- that's correct. Even ifCongress was acting under Article IV, the statute plainlyvests jurisdiction, and it -- and it provides forindependent -- independent review of these appeals by anArticle III court.To -- to -- as respondent suggests, to -- toargue that a panel of the court of appeals could bespecially constituted for these appeals would rewritesection . Section says in very plain terms thatjurisdiction shall vest in the court of appeals. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC QUESTION: Mr. Green, suppose -- suppose Idisagree with you that -- that you -- you can sit througha trial and not object with -- with impunity, and -- and Ithink that you lose here unless you can show plain errorand the usual requirements for avoiding the rule about --about contemporaneous objection. Why do you come withinthe plain error requirements and, in particular, therequirement that -- that there have -- that -- that themistake seriously affect the fairness, integrity, orpublic reputation of judicial proceedings? Why -- why isthat the case?You acknowledge that your client could have beentried by non-Article III judges. You acknowledge that thejudge who sat, although he was non-Article III, was aFederal judge properly appointed. He could have tried your client. So how can I say that this -- that theproceeding -- yes, there was a -- there was a mistake, butdid -- was it -- was it a mistake that seriously affectedthe fairness, integrity, or public reputation of theproceeding? I -- I just don't see that.MR. GREEN: In the following senses, JusticeScalia, it did affect it.First of all, with respect to fairness, theNinth Circuit is -- is a court of fully independentreview, and I would maintain that precisely because the th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC petitioners here were tried by an Article IV court, itmakes sense, and it may actually be constitutionallyrequired that in some sense their -- their appellatereview is had by an Article III court.But in any event, Congress statutorily vestedjurisdiction in a fully independent Article III court, andas a result of doing so, to put Judge Munson who sits fora -year term on a panel as a co-equal participant wouldaffect the fairness of the court. We have a unique --QUESTION: Suppose the panel had included ajudge who was holding a recess appointment, a Federaljudge who was appointed on a recess basis and therefore atthat point didn't have secure tenure?MR. GREEN: I -- I think there would be issuesof -- of qualification there, and there might even be --where a -- a recess appointment was -- was held in a -- ina qualified sense, then I would say that was anArticle III -- an Article III qualification for anArticle III court potentially. If there were issues asto the qualification, we might be in the realm of thede facto officer doctrine.QUESTION: But Justice Scalia's question, atleast as I understood it, I think meant for you toconcentrate on why -- why this would bring theadministration of justice into disrepute, so to speak. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC MR. GREEN: Well --QUESTION: You -- you make your argument thatthis was improper, what was done, and the Governmentagrees. But there's an additional requirement here underplain error.MR. GREEN: Yes, and -- and I would add to myresponse to Justice Scalia that we have an amicus briefhere from Judge Moore who sits in precisely the same seat,so to speak, that Judge Munson sits as a territorial judgein the Virgin Islands. The amicus brief of Judge Moorepoints out very plainly that he views himself as open toquestion with regard to his impartiality because he issubject to the hostile treatment -- to use JusticeDouglas' phraseology, the hostile treatment of the pressand the -- and the glowering disfavor of those who have in their hands the power of reappointment.QUESTION: Gee, he -- he should resign if hefeels that way, it seems to me.[Laughter.]MR. GREEN: He wants -- he -- he prefers thatyou convert him to an Article III judge, so --[Laughter.]QUESTION: I'm sure he does. I'm sure he does.QUESTION: I mean, you -- you have a -- astatutory argument. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC MR. GREEN: Yes.QUESTION: And you have a constitutionalargument.MR. GREEN: Yes.QUESTION: All right. Let's assume away thestatutory argument for the moment. There you have theproblem -- you're -- you're right that it's contrary tothe statute, but maybe it isn't plain error. I'm focusingonly on the constitutional argument, and from the point ofview of the constitutional argument, I would like you toassume the statute says the opposite. The statute saysthat this judge can sit.All right. So purposes of a constitutionalargument, why can't your party waive -- why can't yourclients have waived that? My particular thought is that we're just considering a case in which -- a different casein which it's at least arguable -- there are two sides tothe argument -- whether two parties can get together andhave a magistrate, who is not an Article III judge, trytheir case. The consent simply consisting of the factthey went ahead without objection. In that case, there'sthe statute, but for present purposes, we're assuming theopposite statute.So I mean, if it's at least arguable that youcould have consent, shown only by the fact they went ahead th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC to a trial before a magistrate and that would be enough tovalidate constitutionally the magistrate trying the case,why isn't the fact that you went ahead hereconstitutionally sufficient to show that you agreed to thetrial before -- the -- the appeal that included one judgefrom Guam?MR. GREEN: Because this Court has -- has saidthat the claims of structural validity, claims that go tothe very validity of the tribunal itself, are claims whichinvoke institutional interests, not just personalinterests --QUESTION: Now, I understand that, but myquestion is, how is that any more true or less true wherewhat they've done is consent through behavior to trial ofa case before a magistrate?MR. GREEN: Well, this Court has never -- thisCourt has never addressed the question of whether you canhave --QUESTION: You think that magistrate trials --MR. GREEN: -- a trial --QUESTION: -- through consent areunconstitutional?MR. GREEN: I'm sorry?QUESTION: No, no. Sorry. I didn't mean tointerrupt you. I jumped ahead to -- thinking what you th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC were going to say before listening to what you were goingto say.to say.[Laughter.]QUESTION: And I want to hear what you're goingMR. GREEN: I do that sometimes too.QUESTION: My fault.MR. GREEN: The Court has -- the Court has neverbefore held that it would be permissible for a -- or for amagistrate to conduct a full trial. And that I wouldmaintain because that also might affect institutionalinterests could also not be subject to waiver or consent.QUESTION: So are you saying --MR. GREEN: That's -- that argument iscertainly --QUESTION: -- if we agree with you then, if weagree with you that consent through behavior is not goodenough constitutionally, we would also be saying it isunconstitutional to have consent to a trial before amagistrate. You see, that's quite a -- a -- if you'regoing to say yes to that, that's a problem.MR. GREEN: No, I -- I understand that. Butagain, I'm -- I'm going to go to the dividing line betweenArticle III interests and Appointments Clause interestsand those structural limitations and structural th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC protections in the court system which are not quite thesame as the kind of structural trial errors that thisCourt has addressed in -- in Gomez, that this Courtaddressed last term in Cotton. Those really are errorsthat go to the validity of the claim, not necessarily tothe validity of the -- or to the very validity of theinstitutional interests.I think the hypothetical that you posit isactually Glidden, and in Glidden, this Court held thateven where the designation of the judges from the Court ofClaims and the Court of Customs and Patent Appeals waslawful in that sense, the Court took pains to look and seewhether the courts from which those judges were designatedwere Article III courts.QUESTION: Well, Glidden -- really there was no -- no opinion for the Court in that case.MR. GREEN: No, there wasn't, but the ChiefJustice and Justice Clark in that case concurred in theresult, and the difference that they had with the majoritywas that they didn't think that Bakelite and Williamsshould be deemed overruled, only that they had beensuperseded by subsequent events, including the grant oflifetime tenure to the judges on the Court of Claims andto the -- to the Court of Customs and Patent Appeals.QUESTION: But they -- they didn't join the th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC opinion, did they, of Justice --MR. GREEN: No. No, they did not. But I -- Iwould maintain that there was a -- a majority of five on aseven-member Court because two of the Justices had recusedthemselves. A majority of five.QUESTION: In the Government's brief, theymention a conversation with the Chief Judge of the NinthCircuit by a former lawyer for your client. I'm curiousto know, A, whether you disagree with what is said, and B,how did they get in -- how does that get before us?MR. GREEN: I can't answer the second question. To be frank, I'd like to know the answer to the secondquestion as well.But as to the first question, I really wouldstart with the proposition that I don't think it matters. I -- I don't think it matters here. The conversation,even as reported by respondents, would not in -- in mymind and in our position constitute a waiver or consent. The issue of who hears your appeal is probably soimportant that it's necessary that that be done somehow inthe defendant's presence.Respondent relies on Olano. In Olano, the Courttook pains to point out that the defendants were presentwhen the discussions of whether the -- the alternatejurors could deliberate or not. Here I would say this th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC is -- this would be the same sort of issue subject to thesame sort of waiver and consent requirements.QUESTION: That's odd in a -- in a circuit thathas the vast majority of its appeals decided without anyoral argument. You said that the defendant has to bethere? Your party has to be there?MR. GREEN: I think for -- he doesn't have to bethere, but there would have to be some indication on -- onthe record, in addition to the conversation that -- thatrespondents recite, that -- that Petitioner Nguyenunderstood that there was -- that -- that she was waivingsome important right to a fully independent review by anArticle III court.And I want to stress, as I say that, that --that this claim that respondents make with respect to waiver and consent really affects only one of thepetitioners here. We have to continue with the -- withthe case of Petitioner Phan for whom no oral argument wasmade.QUESTION: But this important right that you --you were relying on, it's her right only because therehappens to be a statute that sets up the Ninth Circuit asthe appellate forum. You have recognized that she did nothave any independent right to that kind of forum. Shecould have had -- since the court -- the -- the authority th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC at trial is determined by Article IV, similarly forterritory authority on appeal.MR. GREEN: But even if she had only a statutoryright in that sense, it's -- it is the case that Congresscreates jurisdiction and creates the inferior courtspursuant to Article III under a statute. That doesn'tmean that constitutional protections and constitutionalrights don't attend the statutory grants of jurisdictionand -- and the activities of the courts that are createdpursuant to Article III.There are numerous examples of -- of purestatutory rights. Let's take, for example, the right toappeal. That is merely a statutory right. This Court hasnot held that that's a constitutional right.QUESTION: Yes, but ordinarily statutory rights can be forfeited if you don't assert them at the earliesttime when you reasonably could.MR. GREEN: That is -- that is true. Buthere --QUESTION: And I'm not using the word waiver. It's not a question of a person consenting, but forfeitingby not raising it at the earliest reasonable stage.MR. GREEN: That is true, but this Court hasheld in cases that involve similar Article III issues andsimilar issues of the Appointments Clause that -- that th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC issues of consent and waiver are not dispositive. Afortiori then, I think issues of forfeiture would not bedispositive.QUESTION: I have one question on the merits I'dlike to ask you. Let's assume we get to the merits of aconstitutional question. I assume for that purpose thatthe statute says, the Ninth Circuit shall travel to Guamand hear appeals and for purposes of this -- for purposesof this voyage to Guam to hear the appeal, the make-up ofthe panel will be two Article III judges and one Article Ijudge. All right? That's the statute.Now, why is that unconstitutional? I cannot --it's very unusual, but I cannot think of any due processright of any Guam person who would be hurt, and I cannotthink of -- why it's wrong to ask an Article III judge to take on this additional adjudicatory function with anArticle I judge sitting next to him. It's purelyadjudicatory. It's not handing out radio licenses. It'snot doing anything else that's unsuitable to a judge. Whynot? That's the merits of the question, and I'm notsaying it has an obvious answer, but I want to hear youranswer.MR. GREEN: I'm going to give almost the sameanswer that -- that we would give as to -- as to ourclaims. It violates the Appointments Clause. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC QUESTION: The Appointments Clause which wasn'teven raised in the reply brief. I mean, that -- that's --or in the cert petition. Is that all? If it's not theAppointments -- I'll go look at that. Sorry. I justhadn't -- I was -- I was -- thought you were going to saysomething about the structural Article III problem.MR. GREEN: Well, I'm going -- I'm going tothere as well --QUESTION: Okay.MR. GREEN: -- and -- and say that -- that ifthe judge was an Article I judge, that -- if that judgehad lifetime tenure, then we would be back in the realm ofGlidden again, trying to decide whether that court wasactually an Article III court.QUESTION: No, no. I say why -- why do you have to -- the Ninth Circuit is an Article III court.MR. GREEN: Correct.QUESTION: My statute says that for purposes ofhearing an appeal from Guam, two -- the Ninth Circuithears it. The panel shall consist of two Article IIIjudges and one Article I judge. Okay? Now, I want toknow what in the Constitution forbids that statute. I'mnot saying it's obvious one way or the other. I want toknow. And it won't help just to say it forbids it. Iwant to know why it forbids it. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC MR. GREEN: It -- it forbids it because of thespecial nature of Article III courts. This Court hasfrequently noted that Article III courts are independent. They have constitutional independence. They haveconstitutional salary protection. Article I judges arenot independent in the same way.QUESTION: But this statute, in effect, says --if -- if you take that position, the statute, in effect,says, we don't want an Article III court. Let's -- let'sconcede that with -- with the one Article I judge sittingon it, it ceases to be an Article III court. But that --the statute says that. What's the matter with that?MR. GREEN: Well, we said in our brief that ifCongress were acting to -- in accordance with its plenarypower, which -- as I think Justice Breyer's hypothetical poses, that might well be constitutional. I thinkthere --QUESTION: So -- so that if Congress said, allright, we're going to have appeals from the territorialcourts in a court consisting of one territorial judge andtwo Article III judges, however selected, no problem withthat constitutionally. Right?MR. GREEN: I -- I think that is a verydifficult and open question, and I -- and I think theremight be a constitutional issue if we to back to Crowell th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC v. Benson, and -- and Crowell's reaffirmation in -- inNorthern -- or rather, Thomas. There is a significantissue as to whether you can have territorial judgesexercising precisely the same kind of almost Article IIIjurisprudence that district -- regular Article IIIdistrict judges have and -- and not have some sort ofArticle III review from that.QUESTION: So you -- you would -- you would havethe same problem if Congress said we're going to set up anArticle IV court of appeals consisting of three Article IVjudges. You'd have the same problem?MR. GREEN: I think that -- that claim can bemade, as I say, on the basis of Crowell and -- and on thebasis of Thomas.QUESTION: Well, the claim can be made, but I mean, would you make it? Do you think that is a soundclaim?MR. GREEN: I think -- I think I would make itand I think I would make it for the following reasons. Precisely because, as Justice Ginsburg points out, theseArticle IV judges, in trying cases and interpretingFederal law, are certainly doing the same kinds of work,exercising the judicial power --QUESTION: Yes, but you could make the sameargument about trial judges and -- and Article III th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC district judges. They're doing the same kind of work. They're subject to the same pressures and the sameconcerns, and if it's okay for the district court, whywouldn't it be okay for an appellate court?MR. GREEN: Well, I -- there is certainlyArticle III review. I'm not sure that -- that Article IIIreview has been constitutionally mandated in that sense.But where there is no Article III protection in the firstplace with respect to -- to judges who are exercising thatauthority at the trial court level, Crowell v. Benson andI think Thomas indicate that -- that there is a -- thereis an open question at least as to whether Article IIIreview is mandated. And this Court said the same inGuam v. Olsen on -- on precisely the same issue.I'd like to reserve the remainder of my time for rebuttal.QUESTION: Very well, Mr. Green.Ms. Millett, we'll hear from you.ORAL ARGUMENT OF PATRICIA A. MILLETTON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTMS. MILLETT: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court:There is no dispute in this case that astatutory violation occurred, and there's also no disputethat no challenge was made to that violation below. The th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC narrow question presented is whether these individualdefendants are entitled to reversal under the plain errordoctrine --QUESTION: May I ask you a question at theoutset? And actually two questions. Some years ago I wasin London, and I was asked to sit with a British court onthe bench. And I -- I didn't do it, but I often thought,well, I wonder if they would have let me participate inthe decision.Supposing here, instead of the Article I judge,you had a British judge and they asked him to sit. Thatwould be one question. Would that make it a differentcase? And secondly, what if they asked the President ofthe -- of the Guam Bar Association to sit as a thirdperson on the panel? Would that make any difference? MS. MILLETT: The -- there certainly would stillbe a statutory violation in those cases absolutely.QUESTION: Yes. The same statutory violationyou have here.MS. MILLETT: Absolutely.QUESTION: And would you just say that'sharmless error?MS. MILLETT: Well, plain error I think is --QUESTION: Plain error.MS. MILLETT: -- a higher standard. I certainly th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC hope someone would object, but if they don't and assumingthat it's a case coming out of the territory again, thenwe would go back to the same analysis and say whether --could Congress create -- if Congress could create a courtthat consisted of two judges and Guam --QUESTION: They could create a court with twojudges and a British judge.MS. MILLETT: -- and a lawyer --QUESTION: Let's assume they could do it.MS. MILLETT: Yes.QUESTION: But with the statute we have now --MS. MILLETT: Yes.QUESTION: -- what would you do in that casethat I asked you?MS. MILLETT: The -- I think our position would be the same as it is here.QUESTION: That would be perfectly okay.MS. MILLETT: I'm putting aside any sort of dueprocess concerns that might apply --QUESTION: Well, wait.QUESTION: Well, that --QUESTION: To get -- to get due process, you --you get to -- you get to that portion of the plain errordoctrine which says plain error applies if it seriouslyaffects the integrity or fairness of the proceeding. And th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC if you have the President of the Guam Bar Associationsitting on the court, doesn't that seriously affect thefairness of the proceeding in a manner that -- that havinga -- an Article IV judge does not?MS. MILLETT: Well, in American InsuranceCompany versus Canter, which was opinion by Chief JusticeMarshall at the beginning of this Nation, dealing withterritorial cases, it addressed there a court thatconsisted of a lawyer and five -- I'm sorry -- a notaryand five jurors in a territory --QUESTION: But that -- but that didn't -- thatwas not a court which in -- in other parts of its dutieswas not an Article III court. You're saying that you canbecome an -- be an Article III judge one day and ArticleIV judge the other day. Or an Article III -- I should say an Article III court one day, an Article IV court the nextday. There's simply no authority for that propositionthat I know of. Tell me if I'm wrong.MS. MILLETT: Justice Kennedy, I think there aredifficult constitutional questions that would be raised ifCongress were to prescribe this. I think based on theanalysis in our brief, it is a statute we could defend. But there would be difficult constitutional questions ifthat happened.What happened here was a mistake, not a th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC confrontation between the branches with Congress trying tochange our --QUESTION: Well, but your position is there --there could be a waiver. I thought your answer to JusticeStevens was that the parties could waive.Suppose -- suppose that we issued this decisionand -- and your position prevails. Everybody agrees thatthis appointment should not have been made. What's toprevent the Ninth Circuit from just asking the parties toplease waive their rights under this case?MS. MILLETT: I think, Your Honor, what wouldprevent them is a decision from this Court declaringlimitations on their statutory appointment power. And ifthis Court -- and if the Ninth Circuit --QUESTION: No. They waive that. But suppose the parties waive it.MS. MILLETT: And if -- and if the Ninth Circuitwere to engage, which is not to be presumed bygovernmental officials, court or executive -- but were toengage in some pattern of violating the statute, I thinkthis Court's supervisory authorities could take care ofthat.But in an individual case like this, where therewas no assertion of the right, this question would stillbe the same. Did plain error occur that affected the th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC substantial rights of these particular defendants?QUESTION: Yes, but the interesting caseunder -- leave plain error out. I mean, you may be righton the plain error.MS. MILLETT: I hope so.QUESTION: But there is, I think, in JusticeStevens' question a very important implication. To getthe due process part out of it, assume that the people infront of the court are not American citizens. Indeed,assume it's Judge Wald going to be appointed to theInternational Court. Now, there's no due process problem.So can the Congress appoint a sitting Federaljudge to go to a foreign place where it's perfectly allright with the foreign people and hear their case? Now,I'm not sure. But that's, I think, what they're arguing is at issue here.MS. MILLETT: I --QUESTION: Not a due process problem --MS. MILLETT: Yes.QUESTION: -- but a question of what kind offunction you can give to a sitting Federal judge because,after all, we have our two sitting Federal judges in theNinth Circuit. They went out to Guam, in principle. Theyconstituted themselves a different sort of tribunal,including the Article I judge, and no one claims that was th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC unfair to anybody in Guam. So there's no due processproblem.Now, what's the answer?MS. MILLETT: I think, Your -- Your Honor,that -- that we would defend that statute, and we thinkthat it would be permissible, assuming -- I mean, the -- abetter way to approach it is that the analysis that wouldbe applied would be as this Court did in Mistretta versusthe United States. And you would focus on -- and a numberof cases. You would focus on what is the nature of thejob that's being imposed. It's a judicial function. Itwouldn't be asked to do some sort of Article I function. And would doing that function so distract or withdraw fromthe burden -- I'm sorry -- distract or interrupt thejudge's -- or court's ability to function as an Article III court. That would be the analysis.Now, to -- to put a finer point on it, infact -- and the reason I have to take the position itwould be okay, is Congress has enacted a statute, U.S.C. , which authorizes judges of the NinthCircuit to go sit in the Freely Associated Compact States,which is Micronesia and the Marshall Islands, which arenot --QUESTION: But that -- but that -- you're --you're -- there are two questions. One is can an th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC Article III judge go to another court. That's not thiscase. This case is whether a non-Article III judge can goto an Article III court so that the Article III court ison some days an Article III court and some days not anArticle III court.I -- I assume that the law of the circuit issomething the Ninth -- Ninth Circuit is proud of. Isit going to now have under -- under your theory an --an asterisk by the opinions that are written bynon-Article III judges so that that's not so much the lawof the circuit? I mean, this -- this is the problem: what happens to the court, not what happens to the judge.MS. MILLETT: No, I understand, Justice Kennedy. There are two points to your question. I would like toget to them both.The first is, would it violate the Constitutionto -- does it violate the Constitution to have someonewho's not an Article III judge sit with the Ninth Circuiton a given day? And our position is that Congress coulddo it and that we would defend that statute based on theanalysis I gave --QUESTION: So you think Congress could -- couldauthorize a State superior court judge to sit on thisCourt?MS. MILLETT: No, not on this Court. I think th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC this Court has unique status. The Supreme Court hasunique status under the Constitution. There shall be oneSupreme Court, and its composition is specifically definedby Article I and nobody in Congress has any authority orpower to change that.But if you're talking about the territories,could Congress say they have no right to appeal at all? Yes. Could Congress say your appeal will be within thelimit -- as long as it doesn't violate due process or afundamental right, will be to three State court judges? Yes.Now, the more difficult question is, could youhave the combination as we had here? And we think underthe analysis of United States versus Mistretta, that wouldbe okay, but in -- in particular, as to territorial residents. But even if it's not --QUESTION: But, again, Mistretta involved theassignment of a judge to a commission. It didn't involvethe delegation of duties to a court. And that's whatyou're -- and that's what you're saying, and that's quitedifferent.MS. MILLETT: Yes.QUESTION: Under your theory -- forget theSupreme Court -- the Ninth Circuit could, if it wasauthorized by Congress, have a visiting State court judge th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC every day as the visitor of the day.MS. MILLETT: At least in territorial cases.QUESTION: And that would not impair itsArticle III character. I -- I just find that verydifficult to believe.MS. MILLETT: Well, Justice Kennedy, the way weget to this position is two steps. Is first -- thereisn't, obviously, clearly on point, but if you addMistretta to Morrison versus Olson, which had a delegationof non-Article III functions to -- to -- that's the -- theindependent counsel case -- to the special division thatappoints the independent counsel -- and so you combinethat and you combine that with the precedents on sharingof power with magistrate judges -- those together -- andthen add to all of that the very limited constitutional rights to -- to a particular form of tribunal accorded topeople in the territories.But I also wanted to get back -- we think thatit could be defended. But even if the answer is no, wedon't think the constitutional violation would be plainerror.But to get back to your binding precedent point,which I think is an important one, it's -- there's threethings to keep in mind.First of all, whether this is a binding th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC precedent or not has absolutely no effect on the claims ofthese individual defendants. Their position would be thesame if the decision were unpublished. And I think theNinth Circuit has itself in a difficult position here. Itshould address, in the first case, the power of thisprecedent.And it's not an issue this Court has neverconsidered. In Glidden -- the Glidden Company case, thetwo concurring Justices specifically said -- they -- theyagreed that the court was competent at least -- it was anArticle III court -- after -- at least after Congress hadpassed the statute giving them that status. But if thosetwo concurring Justices, which provided the most narrowground for decisions in that case, specifically said thatthey would think -- they would uphold the validity of those decisions that were issued prior to Congress'action. And I think this Court's de facto officerdoctrine would speak to whether unchallenged --unchallenged opinions should at some point have --QUESTION: Ms. Millett, I'm surprised at theanswers that you're giving, that they're not prefaced bywhat you said -- I thought you said -- in your brief whichwas that Congress did not enact a statute that allowed theNinth Circuit to include one of these judges. The Courtshouldn't speculate on the constitutionality of a th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC different statute. The statute that Congress, in fact,enacted said that it was wrong to include this judge, andso the only question should be what is the consequence ofthe Ninth Circuit having failed to follow the statute thatCongress enacted instead of speculating on, oh, supposeCongress had, in fact, enacted -- enacted such a statute. But you -- you seem to be engaging in the -- thehypothetical statute that Congress didn't enact todetermine whether it would be constitutional.MS. MILLETT: Well, Justice Ginsburg, weabsolutely agree. I was trying to be responsive toquestions that were posed. But we absolutely agree thatthis is not the appropriate case to address limitations oncongressional power over appellate review in territorialcases.QUESTION: Well, I think it's -- I think it'ssometimes not unusual for us to put a hypothetical case totest your proposition. And the proposition we are testingis whether there is a structural deficiency caused by aterritorial judge sitting, either by accident or onpurpose, if -- if there's such a -- a structuralimpairment of its constitutional role, of itsconstitutional integrity that there must be reversal. Andthe hypothetical is just simply designed to -- toillustrate the point. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC MS. MILLETT: Right. Well, Justice Kennedy, ifwe're talking about now reversal under the plain errordoctrine, then the types of structural errors in whichthis Court has found reversal to be appropriate under theplain error doctrine to violate substantial rights or evento make harmless error analysis inapplicable have -- is avery narrow, small class. And those are -- those areerrors --QUESTION: I -- I agree with you that that's --that that's a hard point in -- in the case.Let me ask you. Do we focus just on the rightsof the -- of the litigant in this case? Or is itappropriate for us to consider the constitutionalintegrity of an Article III court? In other words,suppose we thought there was damage to the court, not necessarily to the litigant. Can we take account of thatin the plain error --MS. MILLETT: The -- the fourth prong of theplain error analysis is whether the -- the error seriouslyaffected the fairness or integrity of judicialproceedings, which would seem to be responsive to -- toyour concern, and that would be the appropriate place toput it.But I think it's important to understand that --that the types of errors that are deemed structural under th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC the plain error -- I'm not talking about structure underArticle III -- are things that go to -- and I think thatwould satisfy prong four -- are things that go to whetherthe court essentially functioned as a court. Does it --is it consistent with the basic precepts that underlie ourjudicial system? Was there race discrimination? Was it apublic trial where they completely denied --QUESTION: But your position, as I understand,is this -- this right can be waived, and I'm not quiteclear on why -- supposing we decide with you in this case,why next month the Ninth Circuit might go back and ask forwritten waivers from all the lawyers in Guam for -- torepeat the process and put on the president of the barassociation as the third person on the panel. Whycouldn't they do that?MS. MILLETT: Well, Justice Stevens, we'reasking this -- in theory that could happen, but I thinkwe're asking this Court to decide this case on theassumption that judges, like executive officers, attemptto comply with the Constitution and don't intentionallyfile rulings of this Court or statutes --QUESTION: Well, they're complying with therule --QUESTION: No, but if it's --QUESTION: -- if there's -- if there's a -- a th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC waivable right there, and they say we think it's in theinterest of harmony between the judges and lawyers in theNinth Circuit to let one of the lawyers sit with us andsee how we work here a couple of times.MS. MILLETT: But -- right --QUESTION: And they're going to do this.MS. MILLETT: But, Justice Stevens, before thisCourt would address whether it's waivable, it would saywhether it's wrong. This is isn't that something that wasjust --wrong.QUESTION: Well, you've already admitted it'sMS. MILLETT: Right. And so I think it's onething to have a right that -- that is -- that is, youknow, parties can do with one way or the other and the statute or the law doesn't speak to it. But where thisCourt -- if this Court were to agree with, I think, bothof this in this case that this was wrong, that I don'tthink we would presume that the Ninth Circuit is going togo -- keep doing -- and -- and the Justice Departmentisn't going to defend it.QUESTION: No. But it's wrong only if youcannot waive it. In the -- the hypothetical is that --that the waiver is right up front, that the person says itwould be wrong without the waiver, but I waive. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC MS. MILLETT: No, Justice -- Justice Souter. Ithink you can have errors that are wrong, but the questionis whether in -- in -- by not objecting to that, they'reentitled to relief. That's different --QUESTION: No, but the -- the question I --MS. MILLETT: -- than whether it's a right theycan waive.QUESTION: Excuse me. But I think the questionwas why will this not -- this practice not be perpetuatedif it is waivable. It is not an answer to that to saythat -- the other courts will not gratuitously engage inunconstitutional action because, if the waiver iseffective, there's no unconstitutional action. So itseems to me that on your position you have to face thefact that if it's waivable, it can properly happen again if there's a waiver.MS. MILLETT: No, Justice Souter --QUESTION: Okay. Let me -- let me --QUESTION: The same --QUESTION: -- hear that with -- with what myfollow-up question was going to be. And you can answerthem both.Why -- instead of getting into waiver, why don'twe say, under the plain error doctrine, look, everybodyagrees that it was wrong? Everybody agrees that it was th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC plain. And there is, in fact, a serious question aboutthe integrity of the court when the composition of thecourt is simply illegal.And so, if you want to stick to waiver, I don'tknow what the answer is to Justice Stevens' problem. The -- the alternative to waiver is to face the fact thatthere's something seriously wrong with a court which isunabashedly illegally constituted.MS. MILLETT: Justice Souter, when we're talkingabout waiver here, we are talking about something that isunconstitutional, just like someone could waive their --can waive their right to an Article III tribunal, but ifCongress passed a statute that violated it, it would stillbe unconstitutional for the court to sit in that manner. We don't think this is an unconstitutional issue. Butwaiver is not the same as it's something the parties canfreely take or drop because you have to go back and -- tothe step before that and say this is wrong and it won't bedone and it shouldn't be done.But if we assume that -- we're -- we're in thecontext of plain error analysis here. That's why theconcept of waiver is being discussed. It's not whether amistake was made or whether these people have the rightfreely to choose. They don't, under the statute, have theright freely to choose what the composition of the panel th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC will -- will be. We agree with that.But when no objection was made below,proceedings were completed, an appeal was completedwithout any objection, they fully and freely participatedin that, and it was only after the outcome that theyturned around to challenge the -- the composition of theircourt, that's an important value too.QUESTION: It seems to me the waiver would bestronger if it were in advance instead of afterwards. I'mpositing a case where everybody agrees in advance we'lllet the -- we'll let this director of tourism of our -- ofGuam participate as a judge today because that will helpthe image of the court and so forth. Everybody agreeswe'll let them try it. Why isn't that waiver more --QUESTION: The question isn't --QUESTION: -- more binding than the one we havehere?QUESTION: And -- and Justice Stevens' questionis important because this case has consequence --consequences and it tells Congress what might be done. Congress might say, well, we won't put this burden ofwaiving a statutory right. We'll take away the statutoryright and say that Article -- that -- that Article IVjudges, territorial judges, can always sit on NinthCircuit opinions involving Guam. That's -- that's why th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC we're testing whether or not there's a structural error inwhat occurs here.MS. MILLETT: And I think this Court's clearrules are that constitutional questions should not bedecided unnecessarily. And it's not necessary toresolution of this case to say what would happen if therewas a full decision by Congress to enact a statute tomake it -- to engage a confrontation between the branchesand to analyze whether that would be appropriate --QUESTION: Well, I thought --QUESTION: But -- but it is important becauseyou're saying that it's just a statutory right.MS. MILLETT: And even if it's --QUESTION: And I'm -- and I'm suggesting that itmight be more than that.MS. MILLETT: And -- and our position will beeven -- we don't think it's a constitutional violation notbecause of what Congress can do or not do, but becauseeven if it violates Article III, that's no injury topeople who have --QUESTION: Right.MS. MILLETT: -- no Article III protections.QUESTION: There clearly is no due processproblem. I'm mixed up now.MS. MILLETT: Mm-hmm. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC QUESTION: Suddenly we're talking about waiver. Maybe I put that in as a -- it's a kind of red herring. It's not a question of waiver. It's a question of whetherthis is plain error which turns into a question of does itseriously affect the fairness, integrity, or publicreputation of judicial proceedings.Now, I take it in all these hypotheticals wherethe Ninth Circuit is deliberately, which I don't thinkthey'd do, defying a congressional statute, gettingeverybody to have waivers on the record, which are totallycontrary to what Congress said, that it would seriouslyinterfere with the integrity. But in a case where nobodyeven thought of the issue, where they raised it a lotlater, it's all come up by accident, et cetera, and --that maybe it wouldn't interfere with the public reputation. So what has waiver to do with it?MS. MILLETT: That -- no, I -- thank you forsaying much more articulately than I've been able towhat -- what our point is about waiver versus plain error. And I think that's exactly right. And does -- does thisaffect the judicial -- judicial integrity has to beanalyzed in the context of these individual defendants. The decision should not be if this particular erroroccurred writ large across the Nation by courts, would itviolate judicial integrity -- th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC QUESTION: Well, in the --MS. MILLETT: -- as to whether this --QUESTION: -- in -- in our Fulminante case, Ithink we held that even structural error was subject toharmless error review, that it was not simply an automaticreversal.MS. MILLETT: Absolutely, Mr. Chief Justice. And there -- the -- the types of things that are not evensubject to harmless error are not whether a mistake wasmade under Article III. In fact, in Ex parte Ward, thisCourt under the de facto -- de facto officer doctrinesustained the actions of the -- of a recess appointmentjudge. But the question is whether it's something thatessentially means this wasn't functioning as a court. Itis that profound. This is inconsistent with our --QUESTION: May I -- may I ask you a verypractical question that -- this case is now here. So ithas gotten some notice. What is the Ninth Circuitcurrently doing with respect to panels that reviewdecisions from Guam, from Samoa, from Northern Marianas? Is the Ninth Circuit continuing to use territorial judgesto fill out their panels, or has it stopped doing it?QUESTION: Please don't tell us that they'reasking for express waivers.(Laughter.) th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC MS. MILLETT: I'm grateful to say that we atleast don't know of that if they are doing it.But as far as we know, this -- this was anisolated incident. The Ninth Circuit sat in the NorthernMariana Islands just last month, February, and had a fullcomplement of Article III judges. It had neverhappened -- it had happened back in the 's, but it --QUESTION: It seems it couldn't be pure accidentbecause the -- the Chief Judge of the circuit would haveto designate that judge. So that was an advertent actthat she designated this territorial judge.MS. MILLETT: No, there's no doubt. And there'sno doubt that -- that a conscious decision to appoint thisjudge was made, but I think the question went towhether -- as I understood it, went to whether there's an ongoing problem or a policy.QUESTION: Right.MS. MILLETT: There is no policy that we'reaware of of doing this. It hadn't happened for years. It hasn't happened since this Court granted certiorari. No reason to think it -- that they're going to do it, atleast until this Court rules, and on the assumption thatthis Court will agree with both parties in this case andtell them that it is wrong to do that, that it won'thappen again. And that's -- th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC QUESTION: Well, we don't usually talk about astatutory violation as being something that's immoral. It's just a violation of the statute.MS. MILLETT: It's wrong.QUESTION: But it's wrong without a waiver.MS. MILLETT: No, I think --QUESTION: So that doesn't decide much in myview.MS. MILLETT: With respect, Justice Kennedy,it's not that it's -- it's right with a waiver. It isstill proscribed by statute. It is still unlawful. The -- the waiver issue is only whether when the -- whenan objection wasn't made, are -- are the defendantsentitled to the extraordinary relief of plain error. That's not a routine type of waiver. That is -- is it was wrong. We all know it's wrong, and -- and -- but dothese -- does it -- did it really hurt the interestseither of these defendants or, in this particularproceeding, did it offend judicial integrity.And we think because of the narrow context inwhich this was decided -- it was a territorial case -- tohave a territorial judge sitting with two Ninth Circuitjudges, statutorily wrong -- maybe there's debate aboutwhether it would be constitutionally permissible. But itdid not make this no longer a court. It did not rise to th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC the level of race discrimination or total --QUESTION: Well, Ms. -- Ms. Millett, may Iinterrupt you there?I mean, you have said -- and -- and I understandwhat you're getting at. That does not make this no longera court. But in -- in a way that sort of begs thequestion because the one thing that is plain is that thisso-called court is not the court that the statute callsfor. So far as the statutory definition of theappropriate court to hear this appeal, this court isillegally constituted. And don't we -- even if we confineour concern to this one instance, don't we have a reasonto find that that fact does go to the integrity of theproceeding for the purposes of the plain error rule?MS. MILLETT: No, Justice Souter. Our positionis that it would not because you had a quorum of NinthCircuit judges here, and a quorum is sufficient under U.S.C., a quorum of two on this panel, to decide --QUESTION: Yes, but the quorum assumes thatyou've lost one who was also an appropriately constitutedmember of the court. And you haven't, so --MS. MILLETT: I'm not going to argue that thistype of error is not what Congress was anticipating in thequorum provision. But it's not that far, if you think ofwhat happens when a panel sits and then a judge recuses th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC himself after argument, once the case is submitted. Andso they have participated. Their -- obviously their namewould not be on the opinion. That would be onedistinction. But the fact that the judge sat there andparticipated and could have had some influence -- it wouldbe unknown -- would not go to the power of the court toact.And this Court has made the distinctions inEx parte Ward, four Justices in the Freytag, and as farback as Martin versus Hunter's Lessee, the power of thecourt to act, the Ninth Circuit to act with a quorum here,is to be distinguished from the lawfulness which -- withwhich they acted. In Ex parte Ward, a -- a recessappointment Federal judge, who lacked tenure, by -- bydefinition lacked salary guarantees, sat.QUESTION: Mm-hmm. Yes. Yes.MS. MILLETT: And this Court said that thiscourt, whichever district court it was -- I forget, I'msorry -- had jurisdiction. The wrong person being thereexercising it goes to the lawfulness with which the courtacted.And so I think because we had a quorum here, theNinth Circuit had power to act. It acted unlawfully inthe exercise of that power, but --QUESTION: So long as it -- but -- but if -- if th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC power to act is the criterion, then your answer would haveto be the same if the director of tourism had beensubstituted in this case because the power of the NinthCircuit would be there to act, a quorum of Article IIIjudges would be sitting, and -- and so I take it youranswer would have to be the same.MS. MILLETT: My answer on jurisdiction would bethe same. My answer on -- on the --QUESTION: No, but I thought your answer to theplain error question of integrity was essentially ananswer that relied heavily on jurisdiction. And thejurisdictional answer was, this is the Ninth Circuit. Ithas power to act. There's a quorum of Ninth Circuitjudges. And that would be the -- that would be the sameif the third member were not an Article IV judge but had been the director of tourism.MS. MILLETT: To clarify, Justice Souter, I wastalking specifically about power. On prong four, I thinkwe would have a much harder row to -- row to hoe if we hadto show that it did not affect integrity to have adirector of tourism sit on a panel, but we --QUESTION: Well, I -- I agree --MS. MILLETT: But --QUESTION: -- but -- which is simply to saythere are other concerns than the jurisdictional concern. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC MS. MILLETT: Right. Right, certainly prongfour goes far beyond jurisdiction. But what makes thisnot offend judicial integrity is that territorialresidents who have no right to an Article III complianttribunal had their case heard by three Federal judges. Itwas heard fairly. They had no disqualifyingconstitutional due process biases. They rendered aunanimous decision on overwhelming evidence in the face ofhighly discretionary challenges.And so -- and -- and you have combined with thatwhat Justice Scalia referred to in discussing with -- withcounsel for petitioner, the -- the counter-concern thatthere's a judicial integrity problem with allowing peopleto proceed before a court and then wait until there's anadverse outcome to challenge who it was that rendered that decision.And so taking all of those factors together inthe particular, peculiar context of territorial residents,we don't think this offended judicial integrity or thereputation of these proceedings. They had three judges,not a judge and a layperson, not a judge and a child. They had three judges. There was no unconstitutionalbias. There was full consideration of their arguments.They had every opportunity, if they didn't want thispanel, to raise an objection, but they didn't. They took th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC it. They went with the judgment, and it's now, under theplain error doctrine, I think too late in the day toobject to the composition of the panel.QUESTION: Given how small the community is, thebar is, in Guam and the Northern Marianas, it puts counselin a somewhat difficult position for the judge to say, oh,do you mind if I sit on this case even though I'm notqualified. So I -- I'm not sure the waiver was all thatvoluntary. There's nothing in the record on the point.MS. MILLETT: Justice Kennedy, I think defensecounsel are frequently -- had to -- have to make difficultdecisions. They have to decide whether they want toalienate the jury by objecting to evidence. Do they wantto alienate the judge by seeming too obstreperous? Dothey want to seem like they're hiding something from the jury? They have to make these difficult decisions, butthe whole point of an adversarial system is that defensecounsel is charged with doing that and you have to strikebalances.And if on balance they decided, which I don'tthink counsel should think about their own reputation indefending their clients, but if they decided it would bebetter not to make the panel angry, I'm not going toobject, that's a strategic choice that they've made. Butat the same time, they may have made the decision, this is th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC a good panel for us. We don't know.There's nothing inherently prejudicial. Unlikemost harmless error or plain errors where it's inherentlyprejudicial to a defendant to admit a confession orsuppress evidence about the circumstances of theconfession, there's nothing inherently prejudicialex ante, up front about a particular judge sitting. Andso there's important --QUESTION: Thank you, Ms. Millett.Mr. Green, you have minutes remaining.REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF JEFFREY T. GREENON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERSMR. GREEN: This case was not decided in thatkind of narrow context. It is not the case that court ofappeals from -- or decisions of the court of -- the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals from Guam or the Northern MarianaIslands are narrow decisions, or somehow limited. In Cruzversus the United States, the Ninth Circuit decided aquestion about the transportation of firearms ininterstate commerce and -- and created a split on thebasis of a Guam appeal with the Sixth Circuit.Judge Munson, in effect, would be deciding casesthat would apply to district judges in Montana. I -- Ithink that is, in part, answer to your question, JusticeBreyer, about the -- about the Article I judge. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC With respect to --QUESTION: Why isn't the answer to that you justtreat them like unpublished decisions? They have noprecedential value.MR. GREEN: I think actually the Ninth Circuitcouldn't do that because of its Article III nature. I --I think that would be a -- an exceedingly odd thing to dofor the --QUESTION: But Article III courts do issueunpublished -- quote, unpublished. Of course, they arepublished, but non-precedential.MR. GREEN: That's true, but we know the issueof -- of unpublished decisions is -- is changing, andnonetheless there may be some knowledge, intra-circuitknowledge, about how these issues were treated. Thesejudges are, as we discussed earlier, interpreting Federallaw. This was a case about laws that arose from -- from U.S.C.And, Justice Souter, I would point out that withrespect to integrity here, I -- I think it would be -- itwould have more integrity, oddly enough, for the court tohave sat with the director of tourism of Guam. Now, I saythat because Judge Moore points out in his amicus briefthat -- that he is open to attack on the ground of whetherhe's impartial to the Government. And -- and here Judge th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC Munson was sitting on a case in which the Government wasthe opposing party.I would add too that this is the kind of casewhere the Court can -- can articulate a high wall, abright line for Congress. When Congress vestsjurisdiction in an Article III court, that meansArticle III review. That decision or that principle isimplicit in Glidden, and this case represents the missingpiece of that puzzle.If there are no further questions.CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: Thank you, Mr. Green.The case is submitted.(Whereupon, at : a.m., the case in theabove-entitled matter was submitted.) th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC 