 IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XTIMOTHY STUART RING, Petitioner ::v. ARIZONA. : No. -:- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XWashington, D.C.Monday, April , The above-entitled matter came on for oralargument before the Supreme Court of the United States at: a.m.APPEARANCES:ANDREW D. HURWITZ, ESQ., Phoenix, Arizona; on behalf ofthe Petitioner.JANET NAPOLITANO, ESQ., Attorney General of Arizona;Phoenix, Arizona; on behalf of the Respondent. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC C O N T E N T SORAL ARGUMENT OF ANDREW D. HURWITZ, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioner JANET NAPOLITANO, ESQ.On behalf of the Respondent REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OFANDREW D. HURWITZ, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioner PAGE th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC P R O C E E D I N G S(: a.m.)CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: We'll hear argumentnext in No. -, Timothy Stuart Ring v. Arizona.Mr. Hurwitz.ORAL ARGUMENT OF ANDREW D. HURWITZON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERMR. HURWITZ: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court:In Apprendi v. New Jersey, this Court held thatthe Sixth Amendment guarantee of jury trial extends to thefinding of any fact that exposes the defendant to agreater sentence than he could have received on the basisof the jury verdict alone. We submit that that principlecontrols this case. In Arizona, a defendant convicted of firstdegree murder may be sentenced on the basis of the juryverdict alone only to a sentence of life imprisonment. The judge in Arizona has no power, no legal discretionunder the law to sentence a convicted first degree murderdefendant to death.QUESTION: Well, if you're correct, Mr. Hurwitz,I take it we would have to overrule not merely Walton, butClemons against Mississippi, Cabana against Bullock, andSpaziano against Florida. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. HURWITZ: Your Honor, let me take thosecases separately because I do not think that at least twoof them are implicated by the position that we urge today.Certainly Walton would be have to be -- would beoverruled because it's directly on point. And certainly, to the extent that Spaziano saysthat a judge may, in the first instance, make the findingof fact to -- to -- of -- of an aggravating circumstancein order to allow a death sentence, it would be also -- itwould be also implicated and overruled by the position weurge today. With respect to Clemons, Clemons was a case inwhich a jury made findings of fact on multiple counts thatallowed a defendant to be sentenced to death, and theissue on appeal was rather whether, one of more of thosefactors having fallen out, the remaining factors could beweighed against mitigating factors for purposes ofdetermining in the sentencing phase, the discretionaryphase of the -- of the capital punishment issue, whetheror not there could be imposed a capital punishment at thatpoint. So, I do not believe that Clemons is implicated byour position today. Rather, our point is very --QUESTION: How about Cabana? MR. HURWITZ: Cabana, Your Honor, I suggest is a th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC more difficult question. Its reasoning would beimplicated by our position today, but I -- as we suggestedin our brief, I think there is a distinction. In Cabana-- or Cabana -- the issue was whether or not a particularsentence, where all the facts necessary under State lawhad been found by the jury, was unconstitutional asapplied to a particular defendant. That sort of as-applied analysis is the kind of thing that judgestypically do. They look at the law and lay it next to thefacts of the case and determine whether or not that law,as applied, is unconstitutional with respect to aparticular defendant or a particular sentence. The issue posed by -- by this case and byApprendi is, I think, a quite different one. It is whenState law expressly requires a number of factors as aprerequisite to the imposition of a particular penalty,the maximum penalty allowed by law, whether or not theState can systematically deny to defendants in those casesthe right to a jury trial. QUESTION: What other States have schemes thatunder your position would also fail the Apprendi test? MR. HURWITZ: Your Honor, we -- I think weattempted to summarize the -- the status on page of ourbrief. We think there are eight or nine States whosesystems would be implicated by this. But what is not th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC clear in all of those States -- and to take Florida as anexample, Your Honor -- is whether or not in a systemwhich, as this Court suggested in Jones, where the jurymakes, by implication or by necessity, a finding of aparticular aggravating factor in order to recommend adeath sentence, whether or not that system would -- wouldbe affected by the principle that we urge. Certainlythose States where there is no jury involved in findingthe necessary aggravating circumstance would be the onesthat would be implicated, and I would suggest that thatcategory is probably somewhat less than the category infootnote of our brief. It is clear, however, that whatever the effecton other States, Arizona's system precisely complies andprecisely matches up to the rule that this Court announcedin Apprendi. It is simply not possible in Arizona for ajudge to impose this sentence of death without firstfinding a fact that Arizona's State law specifies isnecessary for the imposition of that maximum punishment. And under that circumstance, we suggest there is no basisfor distinction of Apprendi. Now, the State has suggested in this case thatone basis for a distinction is that the Arizona statutesays, within one single statute, the range of punishment,the possible punishment for first degree murder is either th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC life -- life without possibility of parole, or death. ButI would suggest that distinction makes no difference. Certainly in the Jones case, the precursor toApprendi, a case that this Court considered a year beforeApprendi, a single statute set forth the range ofpunishment. In the Harris case, the case this Courtconsidered only several weeks ago, where the governmentconceded that section , the drug statute, was coveredby Apprendi, several different punishments are set forthin a single statute. It is difficult to believe that Apprendi wouldhave been -- come out differently, that there would havebeen a different result in that case, if the statuteinstead read there's a possible punishment of years fordischarging a firearm with racial motivation, but the last years may not be imposed. You may not exceed yearsin the absence of racial motivation.QUESTION: If we were to accept your position,Mr. Hurwitz, what would it do to the Federal SentencingGuidelines? MR. HURWITZ: Mr. Chief Justice, let me focus ononly one aspect of the sentencing guidelines because itseems to me that there's no implication whatsoever fordownward departures and that the -- this Court has alreadymade clear, as the guidelines themselves say, that you th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC can't exceed the maximum sentence provided by theunderlying substantive statute. So, if I can focus on the question of what wouldhappen --QUESTION: Upward -- upward adjustments withinthe maximum. MR. HURWITZ: Yes, Mr. Chief Justice. Withrespect to those, I think there is a distinction, and letme suggest it to the Court.In Arizona, the -- the judge simply has no legalpower, no discretion, no ability whatsoever to impose asentence greater than life in the absence of finding aparticular aggravating circumstance specified by the Statein its statutes. With respect to the sentencing guidelines, ajudge has discretion, and we know that because you reviewsentencing decisions for abuse of discretion. So, thejudge has the legal discretion to impose a sentence inexcess of the so-called presumptive range upon the findingor upon noting in the record any number of particularfacts, not specified by statute. QUESTION: Yes, but he didn't -- it's a strangekind of discretion that can be reversed on appeal. Hedoesn't have discretion. The whole purpose of theguidelines is to eliminate the discretion, to say you must th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC give this sentence if these factors exist.MR. HURWITZ: Justice Scalia, my point is, Ithink, that in our case the judge has no power at all. Hecan never find -- he can never exceed that particularlimit, the limit being life, in the absence of -- in theabsence of finding a fact specified by the State, a factchosen by the State as necessary to impose the sentence.The sentencing guidelines strike me as somewhatdistinguishable because the range of factors that a judgemay choose to depart upwards is -- is by the guidelinesrelatively unlimited. QUESTION: Well, in -- in this case, theaggravating fact was killing for pecuniary gain. MR. HURWITZ: Correct, Justice --QUESTION: And that was clearly implicit, if notexplicit, in the jury's finding.MR. HURWITZ: I -- I would suggest neither inthis case, Your Honor. QUESTION: They didn't find a robbery? MR. HURWITZ: The jury found a robbery, butunder Arizona law, as the cases make quite clear, in orderin a felony murder case for there to be a finding ofpecuniary gain, or in any murder case to be a finding ofpecuniary gain, there must be a showing that the murderitself was motivated by a desire for pecuniary gain. And th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC the Arizona Supreme Court has said on three or fouroccasions it is not enough that a murder was committed inconnection with a robbery or, indeed, even in connectionwith a felony murder. The issue is motivation for theparticular homicide. In this case, the Arizona Supreme Court saidexpressly we can't tell from the trial record why thedriver was killed. There is virtually no evidence in thistrial record as to why the driver was killed. It was onthe record made in the post-trial proceedings, the recordmade on the basis of the accomplice testimony, that theArizona Supreme Court concluded that.So, in this case when the Arizona Supreme Courtsays two things -- one is the issue for pecuniary gain iswhether or not there has been proof of the motivation forthe murder, and second, in this case we can't tell why theperson was murdered -- I would suggest there is neither anecessary, implicit, or even logical finding by the juryin this case of -- of pecuniary gain. The Arizona SupremeCourt I think addressed that issue quite straightforwardlyand directly.Now, the State suggests that one distinctionbetween this case and Apprendi is the idea that theseaggravating circumstances are so-called sentencingfactors, not elements of the crime. But I think that -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC that argument was answered in Apprendi. What this Court said in Apprendi was that thereal test is not one of labels. The real test is one offunction. Is this a fact that is necessary under theState law to allow the judge to sentence somebody to themaximum sentence provided by law? And plainly it is, andwhether you call these aggravating circumstancessentencing enhancements or whether you call them elements,you arrive, I would suggest, at the same result. Thiscase on its face is covered by Apprendi. One way to -- one way to -- to get into thatissue is to -- is to imagine the following circumstance. Let's assume that Arizona law, instead of providingprecisely what it does now, said instead that the penaltyfor first degree murder is life without -- is life withpossibility of parole. But that penalty may be increasedto life without possibility of parole upon finding of oneof specific aggravating circumstances, so that we hadexactly the same statute that we have now, but at thefirst level you get life with possibility of parole after years, and at this next level, you got life withoutpossibility of parole. I don't think there could be anydoubt, under those circumstances that on its face the rulethis Court set forth in Apprendi would apply. QUESTION: I think that's true, and I think that th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC in the -- in the normal circumstance when a State doessomething like that, even if it is not calling it anelement of the crime, it is an element of the crime.What we have here, however, this -- this statutewas enacted in -- in what? '?MR. HURWITZ: Initially in ', Justice Scalia.QUESTION: Which was the year after Furman. Andwhat Arizona was saying was, you know, we -- we neverthought we had to have any finding of aggravated --aggravating factors in order to impose the death penalty,but the Supreme Court, in a decision that -- that had no-- no rooting in the common law, said that we cannotimpose capital punishment without aggravatingcircumstances. Okay. We'll make a finding of aggravatingcircumstances necessary and we'll have that finding madeby a judge. Now, I -- I don't regard that as Arizonaadopting the aggravating circumstance as an element of thecrime, nor does the statute read that way. So, you're --you're talking about something that is unprecedented in --in the common law. You're talking about a finding thathas been mandated by the Supreme Court and the issue iswhether the finding mandated by the Supreme Court has tobe made by the jury or -- or the judge. And we've said inseveral cases that it's enough if it's made by the judge. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Now, why isn't --MR. HURWITZ: Justice --QUESTION: -- why isn't that enough to resolvethe case? MR. HURWITZ: Justice Scalia, if the -- if thepoint here is that the State was forced to do this and,therefore, this cannot be an element under the Apprenditest, I would suggest that presents several analyticalproblems. The first is that this Court has said on anynumber of occasions to the States, here is something thatmust be in your law. The very same term that this Courtdecided Furman or the year before, it decided Miller, andin Miller it said if you want to have a constitutionalobscenity law, State, you must have a specific definitionin that State -- in the law of the kind of conduct thatyou wish to -- to punish, the kind of -- the depiction ofthe kind of conduct that you wish to punish. We're nottelling you, States, by the way, what specific factor youhave to have. You decide. Here are some suggestions.Arizona, the year after Miller was decided,amended its statutes to add to its obscenity laws aspecific requirement with respect to proof of specifictypes of sexual conduct. This Court made them do that. The Constitution made them do that. But I do not believe th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC it would be suggested that those specific elements of thecrime, those specific factors that are necessary to imposethe maximum punishment allowed by law, are somehowexempted from the Sixth Amendment for that reason. QUESTION: No, but in -- in the -- in theobscenity field, we didn't invite the kind of procedurethat -- that was adopted here by -- by establishing aseparate -- a separate category, the -- you know, the --the guilt phase and the penalty phase. We -- we invitedthe -- the severing of the trial into those -- into thosetwo portions. And it seems to me it's up to us whetherthe constitutional requirement that we've imposed upon theStates requires a finding by the judge or a finding by thejury. It's -- it's simply not was simple as to say, well,it's an element of the crime and therefore has to be foundby the jury. It's -- it's rather what does the -- whatdoes the Constitution, as interpreted by this Court,demand.MR. HURWITZ: Justice Scalia, let me -- let mecome at that at -- at two levels. The first one is I think the basicconstitutional principle that underlies the SixthAmendment. And that principle, as this Court articulatedin both Jones and Apprendi, is the notion that beforeyou're handed over to the State and before the State is th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC allowed to exact the maximum punishment permitted by law,a jury of your peers is allowed to you to find those factsto put the State in that position. Certainly thatprinciple is directly implicated by the death penaltysituation on its face. So, this underlying SixthAmendment principle strikes me as no different. With respect to bifurcation, there is, ofcourse, no constitutional requirement that the aggravatingcircumstances be found in a penalty phase of the trial. This Court has made clear on any number of occasions thatthe aggravating circumstances, these so-called narrowingcircumstances, the facts necessary under State law toallow the imposition of a death penalty can be found inthe so-called guilt phase of the trial. QUESTION: But if -- if Apprendi was based on along common law history, as -- as it certainly seems tohave been, wouldn't that distinguish it from theaggravating/mitigating, which certainly is not based oncommon law history at all?MR. HURWITZ: Mr. Chief Justice, it strikes methat the common law history here makes the centralprinciple. The central principle in the common lawhistory is, after all, the one that Apprendi and Jonesarticulate about the protection of the Sixth Amendment. The procedure faced in Apprendi was not known at the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC common law. The procedure of having a specificaggravating factor that might enhance a sentence wasunknown to the common law. Yet, this Court in Apprendisaid the basic Sixth Amendment principle that underlies -­underlied the adoption of the Sixth Amendment in should apply to this circumstance. I think that's --QUESTION: Mr. Hurwitz, may I ask why you have-- you have certainly made a case about the aggravatingcircumstances, but you haven't put, as part of that case,the so-called Enmund/Tison findings. And it seems to methat if in Arizona someone can be put to death only if hewas the triggerman, or was a -- what is the other phrase,a major participant, you haven't made anything of thosefactors, and I think if -- if the aggravating factor hasto be found by the jury, then surely those would have tobe as well. MR. HURWITZ: Justice Ginsburg, that may well bethe case. As I think I suggested in response to the ChiefJustice's initial question, it -- it has struck us thatthere is a difference between the sort of as-appliedanalysis that an Enmund/Tison finding requires, aproportionality analysis, and the issue of whether theState systematically denies with respect to a particularfactor that it's picked out, and nothing in this Court'sjurisprudence required the State to adopt any particular th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC aggravating circumstance. With respect to those particular factors, itstrikes us that's at the core of Apprendi. I don't resistthe suggestion that perhaps the principle in Apprendiextends farther, and it extends to -- to the Enmund/Tisonfindings. What I do suggest is that -- is that the coreof Apprendi, the very central holding of the casenecessarily extends to facts which the State itself hassaid in its statutes are necessary in order to find -- inorder to allow the maximum punishment to be imposed bylaw.QUESTION: But -- but the other factor youhaven't discussed is the mitigating circumstances. MR. HURWITZ: Correct, Justice Kennedy.QUESTION: The common law, in defining elements,doesn't usually have some factors on the other side that-- that are mitigating. Perhaps -- perhaps you cansuggest some examples where they do. But again, this goesvery much, it seems to me, to show that this is part ofour Eighth Amendment protections that have been mandated. In Apprendi, the judge could always, once he or she foundthe racial animus, enhance the sentence; in fact, had to. Here there's still a balancing that has to take place and-- and that -- that certainly is -- is not somethingclassically reserved for the function and province of the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC jury. MR. HURWITZ: And that's -- that's correct,Justice Kennedy, and we don't suggest that mitigatingcircumstances or circumstances that suggest leniency mustbe found by the jury. It has always been the case thatonce the judge was empowered to enter the maximum sentenceallowed by law, that judge could consider whatever factorsor the State could consider, in -- in whatever form it didso, those factors that might provide for a sentence ofless than the maximum sentence allowed by law.QUESTION: What about that kind of argument thatinitially Justices Stewart and Powell and Stevens havemade, that there's a necessary connection between thedetermination that death in a case is not cruel andunusual and the jury is doing the weighing in order toshow that it reflects a community sentiment in thatcommunity that the death penalty is not cruel and unusual?MR. HURWITZ: And, Justice Breyer, had thisCourt accepted that as -- as a correct statement of theEighth Amendment, we obviously wouldn't be here today. We're operating -- we're operating with the constraints ofthis Court's decisions which have said that kind of juryweighing, that kind of jury sentencing is not requiredby --QUESTION: Were it up to you, you would make th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC that argument if you felt it was open.MR. HURWITZ: If it were open, it's an argumentwe might make, but it is --QUESTION: Well, presumably you would make anyargument that's open to you.MR. HURWITZ: We're open. (Laughter.) MR. HURWITZ: To be sure, Mr. Chief Justice.But -- but my point is it's not an argument weneed make in this case. We are not suggesting that jurysentencing is required. We are suggesting that jury factfinding is required. And if I might, let me suggest the difficultiesof adopting a rule that somehow has one -- one approach ifsomething was done pre and another one after. IfArizona had adopted this very same statute identicallyworded in , when the ALI first suggested it as apossibility to the States, it seems to me clear, on thebasis of Apprendi, that the aggravating circumstanceswould be elements, or at least sentencing enhancements, asthe Court said, and required to be found by the jury.QUESTION: But if it adopted the statute in, it could have simply had the exact language that ithad and said the decision as to whether death or life issimply up to the discretion of the judge, and it would th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC have been perfectly okay. MR. HURWITZ: Because Apprendi and Jones had notbeen decided at that time, Mr. Chief Justice. QUESTION: And because Furman had not beendecided.MR. HURWITZ: To be sure. But my point is thatif this Court -- this Court will enact an unworkablesystem if what it does is start looking at State statutesand trying to determine whether or not particular factorsin those statutes arose in response to Furman, beforeFurman, after Furman.One example is suggested in our brief. TheState of New York in the mid-s determined to narrowits capital punishment laws and apply them only when thevictim was a peace officer. Arizona made that decision in. Was Arizona's decision in response to a mandatefrom this Court, or was Arizona's decision because, as NewYork, it made a policy decision? QUESTION: Arizona has decided to apply itscapital punishment only to when the victim was a peaceofficer? MR. HURWITZ: No. That's one of the -- one ofthe narrowing circumstances in Arizona law. And my -- mypoint, Mr. Chief Justice, is let's assume two States, oneof which made that decision in , and another one made th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC that decision in , and it was the only aggravatingcircumstance that that State had adopted. Would thisCourt then say, with respect to State number one, theaggravating --QUESTION: But here it's a whole proceduredesigned to have express mitigation and -- and aggravationto be considered by the same trier of fact and balanced. And you -- you seem to give again very -- very littleforce to the mitigation aspect. MR. HURWITZ: Justice Kennedy, I don't mean to. I think it is entirely appropriate and entirely possiblefor a State to design that weighing and that mitigationissue to a -- to a jury. But this Court has made clear,not only in this context, but in other contexts, that --that a defendant is not entitled to a jury trial toestablish mitigation from the maximum sentence that thelaw might allow. Once again, I would return, I think, to theunderlying Sixth Amendment principle, as this Court statedit in Jones and Apprendi. The notion was in thatbefore a defendant was put, in effect, into the tendermercies of the State to be -- to be subjected to whateversentence the law might allow, first that defendant got theright to have a jury of his peers find the facts that werenecessary to do so. He did not have the right at that th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC time to have a jury of his peers find whatever facts mightpersuade the sentencer to give him less than the maximumallowed by law. So, I would suggest that when you return to theunderlying Sixth Amendment principle here, it does providea distinction between facts that would call for leniencyand facts that -- that are necessary under the State's lawto impose a particular sentence.QUESTION: Except that Arizona has designed itssystem, and you could design other systems, but it'sdesigned its system in order to sort out the most culpableoffenders and it uses this balancing mechanism.MR. HURWITZ: Well, I would separate, JusticeKennedy, the two parts of the death penalty process.There is a sorting at the front end. There is anarrowing that is required in order to determine whichdefendants among all those convicted of homicide are, ineffect, the most culpable and can be sentenced to death. There is a second proceeding. The secondproceeding is the sentencing proceeding. And what thisCourt has made clear is that with respect to that firstproceeding, there must be specified facts. That's theFurman analysis. And that's the aggravating circumstancethat we contend is required under the Constitution to befound by the jury. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC With respect to the second decision, this Courthas made plain on any number of occasions that that can bemade a discretionary decision for the judge. Proportionality measurements are no longer required atthat level. What this Court has said, however, is youjust have to let the defendant have the opportunity atthat circumstance to argue for individualized treatment orto argue about leniency, to bring the facts pertinent tohis case to the attention of the court. So, I wouldsuggest it is at this first stage, this narrowing stage,that the Apprendi principle applies.QUESTION: What you're saying is you're notentitled to a finding of -- of mitigation. You areentitled to a finding of -- of aggravation. MR. HURWITZ: Precisely so, Justice Scalia. AndI -- and I think not only are you not entitled to it, but-- but there is nothing in this Court's jurisprudence thatrequires that the State specify a particular fact inmitigation. Here we have facts chosen perhaps under thecompulsion of the Constitution, but nonetheless chosen bythe State as necessary prerequisites to the punishment.Unless the Court has other questions, I willreserve the balance of my time. QUESTION: Very well, Mr. Hurwitz. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC General Napolitano, we'll hear from you. ORAL ARGUMENT OF JANET NAPOLITANOON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTMS. NAPOLITANO: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court:Opposing counsel began with Apprendi, but let metake up on the suggestion by Justice Scalia that this casereally begins with Furman because after Furman, the Stateswere left with the mandate that death penalty decisionscould not be left unguided under the Eighth Amendment, butrequires a standard of judgment. Some States imposed mandatory death sentences, apractice this Court later found unconstitutional. Incontrast, Arizona amended its death penalty statute tocomply with Furman by adding a series of factors which thejudge would take into account in choosing between thealternative punishments of life or death. In Walton, this Court fully considered andupheld the constitutionality of Arizona's law. Thequestion now is whether at this late date Apprendirequires you to overrule Walton. And the answer is no. Apprendi is a Sixth Amendment issue. Furman, Walton, andthis case Ring concern the Eighth Amendment. In addition, principles of stare decisis areheavily implicated here because, as Chief Justice th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Rehnquist mentioned, there have been any number ofprecedents in this Court that would be implicitly, if notexplicitly, overruled should this Court overrule Walton.Let me, if I might, turn to two importantdistinctions between Ring and -- and Apprendi. One issubstantive and one I would call formal. The substantive distinction is this. Thesentencing statute in Arizona derived from Furman. It waspassed in . The pecuniary gain aggravating factor wasone of the original aggravating factors in that statute. There was never a -- a suggestion that Arizona was playinga game, moving something that previously had been anelement into the sentencing factor side of the statute. There's never been any suggestion that this was anythingother than a way to decide which of all first degreemurders deserve the death penalty.QUESTION: Are we going to have to try to figurethat out case by case with -- with respect to everyState's statute, as Mr. Hurwitz suggested we -- we wouldhave to do?MS. NAPOLITANO: Your Honor, I think --QUESTION: I mean, what about the New Yorkstatute that -- you know, that makes an aggravatingcircumstance the death of a -- of a peace officer? MS. NAPOLITANO: Your Honor, I think what you th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC have to do is just look at what was the underlying firstdegree murder statute, what is the underlying statutewhich gives rise to the possibility of a death penalty. In Arizona, the underlying first degree murderstatute has been the same since , and in fact, aroundthe country, most first degree murder statutes can tracetheir routes to England in terms of how they are defined,the mens rea, the actus reus, and the causationrequirements. QUESTION: But you're --MS. NAPOLITANO: It's not a difficult process togo through. QUESTION: But you're saying -- the implicationof what you're saying is that any, in effect, departure orinnovation in the modern law which doesn't have a clearantecedent, at least as of the time of the -- of theframing, is exempt -- is a fact exempt from the jury trialrequirement. I mean, that's -- that -- we'd have to adoptthat rule in order to see it your way.MS. NAPOLITANO: No. No, Your Honor, you wouldnot have to adopt such a blanket rule. What I amsuggesting is this. In a situation where you have astatutory scheme that quite clearly, plainly, andunequivocally derives from this Court's Eighth Amendmentjurisprudence, some of the Sixth Amendment questions that th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC were raised in Apprendi are not implicated. And you canmake --QUESTION: So, if the State comes up with a newcondition, the jury trial guarantee applies. If thisCourt comes up with it, for whatever reason, it does notapply. MS. NAPOLITANO: Not necessarily, Your Honor. And it gets you into the discussion of what is the intentof the legislature, what does it mean to be an element ofthe crime in the first place. But under --QUESTION: Why -- why does it matter whetherit's an element or not? I mean, doesn't Apprendi say callit an element, call it a factor, we don't care what youcall it? If it's a fact necessary, et cetera, it's got tobe found by the jury. MS. NAPOLITANO: Well, I think in -- in lookingat McMillan and Jones and Apprendi and that whole line,there has been a question created by this Court as what isan element because if it's an element, what this Court hassaid is it has to be charged, it has to be proved beyond areasonable doubt, and it has to go to the jury. If it's asentencing factor, if it's -- if that's what's going on,those requirements do not apply. QUESTION: Well, let me -- let me go back. I --in effect, I sort of put you off track here. You -- you th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC were saying that there isn't a simple distinction on yourtheory between facts added by a legislature and factsrequired by this Court. So, tell me -- tell me why thereisn't such a distinction as -- as you're arguing it now.MS. NAPOLITANO: What we're arguing, Your Honor,is that when a fact is found purely for the purpose ofsentencing -- and -- and recognize the fact here murderfor pecuniary gain was never a part of the definition offirst degree murder. First degree murder is theintentional killing of another or a felony murder withcertain underlying felony predicates. The jury found thathere. It was charged here. There was a death notice inthe actual indictment.QUESTION: Right. MS. NAPOLITANO: The jury was death qualified. So, there's no question of surprise here. QUESTION: Well, are you -- are you saying thenthat if a legislature adds a fact -- call it an element ifyou want -- purely for purposes of determining thesentence, that that too would be exempt from the -- theguarantee of the jury trial? MS. NAPOLITANO: I think it could be exemptdepending on the circumstances, yes, Your Honor. QUESTION: But would it be -- I mean, is thatthe theory that you're arguing? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MS. NAPOLITANO: Yes that there are --QUESTION: I just want to know what you're --you're arguing. MS. NAPOLITANO: Yes, Your Honor. I'm sorry. That there are some facts that the legislature is entitledto find which don't go to the definition of the crime butgo to the punishment. And this Court has never held thatthere's a Sixth Amendment right to jury sentencing.QUESTION: What -- what do you do with thebroader principle which we express from time to time thatthe -- the ultimate point of the jury right in -- in acriminal case is to -- is to place the jury between thedefendant and the State? If -- if that's a fairstatement, then you're saying, well, only part way betweenthe defendant and the State.MS. NAPOLITANO: In the death penalty context,Your Honor, this Court has already limited the kind ofoffenses for which the death penalty can even be apossibility. So, you don't have the kind of broad ranginglegislative discretion that you would in anothercircumstance. That's why I say you -- you -- in thosekinds of non-death cases, you may have to do a differentkind of analysis.But in the unique context of the death penaltyworld where you have to have either a first degree murder th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC or a felony murder -- and if it's a felony murder and youhave a non-shooter, you have to make the Enmund/Tisonfinding, and that has to be made and can be made by thejudge -- there -- the legislature is not -- they're notcharging the death penalty for jaywalking.And then the question is, all right, is thelegislature entitled under the Eighth Amendment or doesthe legislature under the Eighth Amendment have to channeldiscretion? And they do.And then the question is, does Apprendi somehowrequire that that Eighth Amendment jurisprudence beconverted into a jury right on this -- on the aggravatingfactors? And as this Court has said time and time again,no, starting with Proffitt v. Florida all the way throughWalton. Poland v. Arizona is a great example where --QUESTION: But -- but your -- your principle, infact, is broader than that because, as I understand it,your principle is that what we have traditionally referredto as sentencing factors -- maybe change that to a neutralterm, facts that bear solely on sentencing -- they can beexcluded from the -- the jury finding guarantee.MS. NAPOLITANO: Yes. In the unique context ofthe death penalty and then it remains for this Court todecide whether you want to broaden it. But the ruleproposed by the petitioner here would be equally broad th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC taken out of the death penalty context because you couldhave no fact that enhanced a sentence that didn't firsthave to be found by a jury. And in response to a question that was posedearlier, that would throw into question the FederalSentencing Guidelines and their structure and -- any manyState sentencing structures where, once you are convictedof a particular offense, the State law requires the judgeto give you a presumptive sentence unless he findsadditional facts, in which case he can depart upwards. It's not just the Federal Sentencing Guidelines that usethat structure. Many States use that structure. So, ifyou are to hold that an aggravating factor even in a deathpenalty case has to go to the jury, it is hard to imaginewhy that wouldn't extend throughout the sentencing systemsof the States. QUESTION: General Napolitano, how many deathsentence case are there presently in Arizona that would beaffected by a reversal here? MS. NAPOLITANO: We've had death sentencesimposed since Walton, and approximately are in sometype of direct review. So, it's a substantial number, andthat's just in -- in Arizona. QUESTION: Maybe Apprendi throws into play someof those earlier cases, even if you don't agree with th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Apprendi or feel it's quite limited.What about the other cases I mentioned wherePowell and -- and Stewart -- Stevens all thought that ajury should make this determination as part of the EighthAmendment jurisprudence because it's very important thatthe death penalty be applied only where opinion in thatcommunity believes that it is consistent with the crueland unusual punishment prohibition? MS. NAPOLITANO: Two responses to that, YourHonor. One is this Court itself in a later case mentionedthat they thought judicial sentencing may, in fact, be abetter way to guarantee against the arbitrary impositionof the death penalty. QUESTION: The statistics seem to suggest thatit is absolutely no reason to think that.MS. NAPOLITANO: The statistics seem to suggestthat there is absolutely no reason to think that jurysentencing is any different, that they're a wash. Butthere hasn't been a lot of literature on this subject. And --QUESTION: Well, yes, but there has -- there wasa long -- you know, Potter Stewart went into all of this.MS. NAPOLITANO: Yes. QUESTION: Go ahead. I don't want to interruptyou. I'm sorry. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MS. NAPOLITANO: But --QUESTION: I want to hear your answer. Now,please go ahead. MS. NAPOLITANO: Well, the jury is involved inthis case. The jury is a protector in this case. Thiswas an indicted case, indicted for first degree murder.That went to the grand jury. It was then presented to thepetit jury. They made the determination about the felonymurder. They weighed the evidence. They knew or were onnotice that this was a death case. The jury right wasembraced here, just as it was pre Furman. The onlydifference is the post-Furman addition of the sentencingfactors. QUESTION: No. The difference is that theindividual juror does not have to take the individualresponsibility of saying I as a human being have decidedthat this person should be sentenced to death. Now,that's quite a difference. MS. NAPOLITANO: Your Honor, even underpetitioner's argument, an addition -- and a -- and a jurormay not have to make that decision because evenpetitioner's argument says, we just want them to find afact. QUESTION: That's true. MS. NAPOLITANO: We still say it's okay for the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC judge --QUESTION: I -- I grant you that. That's why --MS. NAPOLITANO: So, go ahead and do theweighing and so forth. QUESTION: I -- I -- you're quite right on that. That's why I want to see what the answer to the fullargument is on your part. MS. NAPOLITANO: Well, the answer is that thejury here is embraced and is performing the function ofjuries that has come down from colonial times or pre-colonial times. There's nothing different. The jury hasto find intent to kill. The jury has to find a death. The jury has to find causation. The instructions are thesame to the jury.QUESTION: But it could make all those findingsand it would not authorize the death penalty.MS. NAPOLITANO: Excuse me?QUESTION: It could make all those findings thatyou just recited, and yet the law of Arizona would notpermit the imposition of the death penalty.MS. NAPOLITANO: The jury verdict at that case,under that part of our statute, would say that the maximumdeath penalty is death. But you're right, Justice. Itcan't be enforced until the judge conducts the secondsentencing hearing. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: Unless the judge makes an additionalfinding of fact. MS. NAPOLITANO: He must find an aggravatingfact and then he can find -- weigh those against themitigators and make the determination as to whether deathis the appropriate punishment. But again, this is part of the process thisCourt has dictated to the States to determine which of theworst murders deserve the worst penalty.QUESTION: General Napolitano, the -- theexpanded argument that Justice Breyer is -- is suggesting,which -- which isn't urged by Mr. Hurwitz, is really anEighth Amendment argument rather than a Sixth Amendmentargument, isn't it? That is, the fact that the juryshould also be required to do the weighing and to make thefinal determination that this person deserves the deathpenalty. That's not a Sixth Amendment argument; it's anEighth Amendment. MS. NAPOLITANO: I think it could be construedas an Eighth Amendment argument, yes, Your Honor. And -- and as I said at the beginning of myargument, this whole situation, this whole statute derivesfrom Furman and from the Eighth Amendment. It does notimplicate the Sixth Amendment or the concerns that wereexpressed in Apprendi. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC And let me, if I might, go to the stare decisispart of my argument, because it's not just the cases youlisted, Your Honor, that I think would be implicitlyoverruled, but let me give you a list: Proffitt v.Florida, Spaziano, Cabana v. Bullock, which does allowthe --QUESTION: But do you think it's perfectly clear-- you cite a couple of Florida cases -- that if theFlorida advisory jury made the findings of fact that wouldbe -- make them -- the defendant eligible for the deathpenalty, that that case would be covered by the decisionin this case? MS. NAPOLITANO: Yes, and I think it's importantto understand how the Florida system works under Floridalaw. What happens is after conviction, the jury hears aseparate sentencing proceeding.QUESTION: Correct. MS. NAPOLITANO: And it comes out with really aunitary form, and all that form says is life or death. Itdoes not specify which aggravating facts the jury may havefound or which mitigating facts the jury may have found. And then the trial judge takes that form --QUESTION: But supposing it did just to -- justto go with me on the -- on the hypo.MS. NAPOLITANO: Okay. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: Supposing, as a part of theprocedure, the judge did require the jury to accompany itsrecommendation with a finding of fact as to theaggravating circumstance. Would that then be covered bythis case? MS. NAPOLITANO: I think it would, Your Honor,because you're still allowing the judge to make the finaldetermination. And if the judge is able to disagree onthe facts --QUESTION: But that's the Eighth Amendmentissue. The judge is making the final determination butnot necessarily -- but it would be supported by a juryfinding that was sufficient to authorize the deathpenalty.MS. NAPOLITANO: In this case, the jury findingof first degree felony murder authorized the deathpenalty. The question was, could it be imposed and whatis the -- what is the way to do --QUESTION: It doesn't authorize it without anadditional finding by the judge.MS. NAPOLITANO: It authorizes the judge to goforward and conduct a separate sentencing hearing.QUESTION: In some -- in some States, it's myunderstanding that the jury simply makes a finding thatthe aggravating circumstances outweigh the mitigating th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC circumstances without specifying either. Now, would thatbe affected, at least by Justice Breyer's argument? MS. NAPOLITANO: I think it -- it couldconceivably. I mean, I -- you know, what we're dealingwith here is a very difficult --QUESTION: But -- but isn't it clear that theaggravating circumstances could not outweigh themitigating circumstances unless there were a finding of atleast one aggravating circumstance? MS. NAPOLITANO: Yes. QUESTION: Which in turn --MS. NAPOLITANO: But you could have --QUESTION: -- would make him eligible for thedeath penalty. MS. NAPOLITANO: I -- yes, Your Honor, but youcould have the situation such as a State like Floridawhere the judge doesn't know what aggravating circumstancewas found, and you're still --QUESTION: Well, he doesn't know which is found,but he knows that one is found. It seems to me if you saythat's not enough, then you are making the Stewart EighthAmendment argument, aren't you? MS. NAPOLITANO: Yes. And -- and the -- theproblem there is if the Eighth -- if an aggravatingcircumstance is found by a jury and the judge doesn't know th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC what it is, and the judge still has to go through all ofthe evidence and do the weighing as to what weight thataggravating circumstance should find versus themitigating, the basic -- one basic question is, well, whatis the function of the jury there anyway? What is theprotection the Sixth Amendment is providing to a defendantthere? And I would suggest that a defendant such asRing and such as a defendant in Florida has alreadyreceived all the protections that the Sixth Amendmententitles him or her to. And all that is going on here isa narrowing process where the judge's discretion isactually being narrowed in sentencing, not broadened. InApprendi, you could actually say the discretion was beingbroadened, the same as in Jones, but it is being narrowed.QUESTION: Yes, but it's narrowed to the extentthat he now knows he must make an additional -- one singleadditional finding of fact in order to put this man todeath, which is -- the jury has not made that finding offact.MS. NAPOLITANO: Well, yes, Your Honor, at a --at a statutory level in Arizona that is absolutely true.QUESTION: That's what your Supreme Court saysis the case here. MS. NAPOLITANO: Yes. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Now, in -- in the Ring case, there -- there isthe issue of the fact that he was convicted of armedrobbery and conspiracy to commit armed robbery.QUESTION: May I ask if you disagree with youropponent's analysis of the pecuniary circumstance issue? He says that there's a difference between armed robbery onthe one hand which is for a pecuniary purpose and thepecuniary motivation in a death case, and that has to bethe motivation for the killing itself, is that the robbery-- robbery alone would not satisfy that. Do you disagreewith that? MS. NAPOLITANO: Yes, Your Honor. And I wouldcite the -- this Court to State v. Gretzler which is citedin our brief. But on the record before this Court and onthe --Court.QUESTION: You'd cite State v. Gretzler to theMS. NAPOLITANO: Yes. It's in our brief, YourHonor. It's an Arizona Supreme Court case.But I would also add that in this case, based onthe trial transcript and the sentencing hearingtranscript, which are part of the joint appendix beforethe Court, it's very clear that the reason Mr. Magoch waskilled was because he unfortunately was the driver of an th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC armored car that Mr. Ring decided to rob.QUESTION: I -- I agree when you say sentencingtranscript, but what about just the guilt phasetranscript? Would you make the same -- the same --MS. NAPOLITANO: Yes, I would, Your Honor QUESTION: -- draw the same conclusion? MS. NAPOLITANO: Yes, Your Honor, and -- and Ithink that's why the jury convicted him of armed robberyand conspiracy to commit armed robbery and rendered aunanimous verdict on the felony murder portion even thoughthey didn't render a unanimous verdict on thepremeditated --QUESTION: General Napolitano, will you correctme if I'm wrong about this, but I thought that the proofat the trial itself didn't even place the defendant at thescene of the crime. Certainly he was involved in planningit. They -- but they didn't even place him at the sceneof the crime at the trial. That didn't come up untilsentencing when the co-defendant testified. So, how couldthe jury have made the finding that he killed forpecuniary gain when he wasn't even at the scene? MS. NAPOLITANO: Your Honor, it goes to the factthat he was at a minimum a major -- major conspirator in aconspiracy that resulted in the death of an armored cardriver. The purpose of the conspiracy was to rob the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC armored car. The jury, by finding the armored carrobbery, the -- the membership in the conspiracy, and thenthe sentencing court and then later the Arizona SupremeCourt making the Enmund/Tison finding impliedly, if notexplicitly, proved the pecuniary gain issue. But if there's any question for this Court onthat point, and should you be inclined to overrule Walton,which you should not, that's a matter that always could beremanded back to the State Supreme Court for furtherexplanation. QUESTION: Would you tell me how one wouldexplain to a citizen that you can't get years added onto your sentence unless the jury makes the criticalfinding, but you can be put to death with the judge makingthe critical finding? MS. NAPOLITANO: Because, Your Honor, the -- thedifference is what is the source of the punishment. Wheredoes it come from? What is the source of the sentencingat issue? And in the prior situation, in a -- in a non-death penalty case, what the Court has been doing and whatApprendi does is expand the range of the jury trial. Butwhat the Court has not done is expand the Eighth Amendmentprotections that it -- that it incorporated onto theoriginal elements of first degree murder for death penaltycases and say not only are these Eighth Amendment issues, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC now we're going to even transfer it further and make themSixth Amendment issues. And -- and the implications arelarge. QUESTION: It seems to me that you're making anovel application of the principle we've repeated severaltimes, that death is different. MS. NAPOLITANO: Death is different. QUESTION: Yes. MS. NAPOLITANO: I mean, there's no doubt aboutit, Your Honor. And -- and your jurisprudence has saidthat. But, you know, you don't have this kind ofelaborate sentencing procedure in a non-death case either. I mean, this is all driven by -- by Furman and all ofFurman's progeny to make sure that we are getting theright defendants and imposing the right penalty on thosedefendants. And that's an Eighth Amendment issue and hasnot been, by this Court, expanded to the Sixth Amendment.And -- and again, if this Court were to overruleWalton and reopen all of the cases in Arizona, at leastthat are on direct review and in the other States, it'shard to imagine how you then would not also have tooverrule Clemons, Hildwin, Poland, all the cases we'vecited to the Court before, because they all recognize andstate that these cases are different and that there is aseparate rule for the judge in these kinds of cases. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: The -- the difference obviously isthat, of course, it's different. It's worse, not better.So, the obvious argument is that if you're going to insistthat a jury find a fact that could enhance a sentence from years to , surely a jury, when you're under theEighth Amendment or the Sixth Amendment, should find thefact that could enhance the sentence from life in prisonto death. I mean, I think that's what it's --MS. NAPOLITANO: Well, I think that's --QUESTION: -- is the underlying point here.MS. NAPOLITANO: I think that's petitioner'sbasic argument, and -- and our response is it's morecomplicated than that. That doesn't really answer thequestion because in the death penalty world, the case lawis different, the tradition is different. This is all acreation of Supreme Court precedent, really not of thecommon law as it came down through colonial times. Andwhat is going on here are additional protections for adefendant, not fewer protections for a defendant. And remember, in this case, you know, if youjust took the -- the literal language of Apprendi and --and didn't go beneath it, and you took the literallanguage of the Arizona first degree murder statute, themaximum penalty under the statute is death, and the judgeis simply making a choice between life or death. And the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC jury's verdict authorizes the judge to go forward andenter into that sentencing proceeding. And that is aprocedure that this Court has embraced, upheld, andspecifically said does not violate the Sixth Amendment.QUESTION: Would you comment on your opponent'ssuggestion that that would apply to other statutes likethe drug statute? The maximum penalty under the samestatute is life in prison and so forth, but nevertheless,Apprendi applies. Or Apprendi itself -- supposing the two-- instead of two statutes, there had been one. Wouldthat have made a difference? MS. NAPOLITANO: You know, in the statutoryanalysis that Apprendi suggests, part of that analysis isyou have to look at each statute and how it wasconstructed and so forth. I don't know whetherautomatically it would apply because, again, as I've madethe argument today, the Eighth Amendment death penaltycases just are different. But, again, if you overrule Walton, it -- it ishard to imagine how any judge would have the authorityunder the Sixth Amendment to find any kind of fact thatwould be used to enhance a sentence. And if that's whatApprendi is supposed to mean, that's a very, very broadruling. QUESTION: To -- to enhance a sentence beyond th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC that which was otherwise authorized by law by the jury'sverdict. MS. NAPOLITANO: Well, or enhance a sentencebeyond the presumptive sentence, because what's thedifference between a sentence authorized and a presumptivesentence set forth in either guidelines or in legislation? We're cutting very fine hairs here. And I think the ultimate question is, what isthe role of a jury? Was that jury's role embraced byArizona? Yes. Did the role of the jury in this casechange at any time from what it was pre-Furman to post-Furman? No. Did the jury in this case know it was adeath case? Yes. Did the defendant know it was a deathcase? Yes. Everyone knew it was a death case. There'sno surprise. There's no adding on at the end, oh, by theway, we're going to ask for an additional - to -yearenhancement like they did in Apprendi or an additional -year enhancement as in Jones. None of that happened. This was a death case from the beginning and it should bea death case now. Thank you, Your Honors. QUESTION: Thank you, General Napolitano.Mr. Hurwitz, you have minutes remaining.REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF ANDREW D. HURWITZON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: Mr. Hurwitz, would you address thequestion that General Napolitano made about this is anEighth Amendment requirement, not a Sixth Amendmentrequirement, and that's a huge difference? MR. HURWITZ: I -- I will, Justice Ginsburg. Itseems to me that the State's position is that when a factis required by State law at the policy whim of legislatorsin order to impose the maximum punishment allowed by law,that fact gets Sixth Amendment protection. But when afact is required by the Constitution or by decisions ofthis Court, that it somehow obtains less Sixth Amendmentprotection. I would suggest there is no basis in thejurisprudence of this Court for that kind of conclusion. What the Attorney General seems to be saying toyou today are two things. First, the State doesn't likeApprendi. Hence, the distinction between facts that weadded in order to impose sentences and facts that wereelements of the crime. But I suggest that problem wassolved in Apprendi. The separate question is whether or not, asJustice Stevens put it, death is so different as torequire a different rule than in Apprendi. And I wouldsuggest that the purpose of the Sixth Amendment here, theprotection of the right to jury trial, applies with noless force under a circumstance where the enhanced th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC sentence may be from life to death than under acircumstance where the enhanced sentence may be from years to years.It may well be true that this Court's EighthAmendment jurisprudence is unique, but in the context ofthe Sixth Amendment, in the context of the facts necessaryand specified by State law, in order to allow the maximumpunishment allowed by law, there should not be an EighthAmendment exception. The State has chosen to make specific factsnecessary for the imposition of the ultimate sentence, andwhen the State chooses to do so, whether it chooses to doso because it merely thinks it's a good idea or it choosesto do so because the Constitution of the United Statesrequires it to do so, the same Sixth Amendment principleought to obtain. And that Sixth Amendment principle isthat you're entitled to have the jury find those facts. With respect to the question Justice Breyerasked -- and I think as clarified, it's important to note,the second issue is really an Eighth Amendment issue, andthat Eighth Amendment issue is not one that we -- that weurge in this case. But even if you don't urge that EighthAmendment issue, the underlying Sixth Amendment issuestrikes us as precisely the same. And therefore, you mayhave a system under which a judge can do this ultimate th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC weighing, this ultimate discretionary decision at thesecond level of whether this is a particular penaltythat's appropriate for this defendant. But the State'snarrowing, the State's choosing of factors and puttingthem in its law and saying to the defendant, this is afact that must be found before you can receive thismaximum sentence, is a Sixth Amendment point.One final point. With respect to notice, thisis plainly not a notice case. I don't believe Apprendiwould have come out a single bit differently if, beforehis trial, Mr. Apprendi was told you're going to be triedon the firearms charge and at the end of the charge, thejudge is going to determine whether there's racialmotivation and he's going to give you an additionalsentence. Apprendi was not about notice. This case isnot about notice. This case is, however about that central SixthAmendment point, and I would suggest to the Court that tryas you might, unless you simply say in the end we're goingto have a different rule for capital punishment, you can'tdistinguish the issues in this case and the underlyingSixth Amendment principle from the principles in Apprendi.And for that reason, we suggest that this case iscontrolled by Apprendi and that the sentence of deathimposed on this petitioner was inappropriate under the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Sixth Amendment. CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: Thank you, Mr.Hurwitz.The case is submitted. (Whereupon, at : p.m., the case in theabove-entitled matter was submitted.) th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC A ability : able : about : :, : : : : : : : :, : : :,, above-entitled : : absence : : :, absolutely :, : abuse : accept : accepted : accompany : accomplice : account : actual : actually :, actus : add : : added : : : adding : : addition : :, additional : : : :, : :, : address : addressed : adds : adjustments : adopt : :, adopted : :, : adopting : : adoption : advisory : affected : : : after : : : : : : : : again : :, : : : :, against :,, : : : aggravated : aggravating : :, : : : :, :,,, : : :,, : : :, : :,, : : : : :, :,,, : aggravating/mitigating : aggravation : : ago : agree : : ahead : : : ALI : allow : : : : :, allowed : : : :, :, : : : : : allowing : alone :, : already : : : alternative : always : : : amended : : Amendment : :, :, :, : : : : : :, :, : :,, : :,,,,,, : : :, :, :,, :, :,, :,,,, :,,,,,,,, :, : : among : analysis : :, : : : :, analytical : ANDREW : :, : : animus : announced : another : : : : answer : : :, : answered : antecedent : anything : : anyway : appeal : : APPEARANCES : appendix : application : applied :,, : applies : : : : apply : : :, :, :, Apprendi : :, :, :,, : : :,,, : : :,, : :,,, : : : : :,, : :,, : : : : : : : :,,, : :,, :,,,, approach : appropriate : : : approximately : April : arbitrary : argue :, arguing :,, : argument : :, :, : : :,,, : :, : : :,,,, : :, : : : : Arizona :,,, :,, : : : : :,,,, : :, : : : :,, : : :, : : :, : : : : : : : Arizona's :, :, : armed :,, :, armored :, :, arose : around : arrive : articulate : articulated : asked : aspect : : assume : : as-applied : attempted : attention : Attorney : : authority : authorize : :, authorized : :, authorizes : : automatically : a.m : : B back : : balance : balanced : balancing : : based :, : basic : : :, : basis :, :, : : : bear : before : : : :, : : :, : :, began : beginning : : begins : behalf :, :,, : : : being : : :,, believe : : : : believes : beneath : better : : between : : : : : : : :, : : : : beyond : : : bifurcation : bit : blanket : both : Breyer : : : Breyer's : brief :, : : :, bring : broad : : : th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC broaden : broadened :, broader : : Bullock : : C C : : Cabana : :, :, : call :, : : :,, : calling : came : : capital :, : :, : car :, :, care : case : : :, : :,,, : :,,,, :,,, : : : :,, : :, : : :, :, : :,, : :,,, : :, :, : :, :, : : :, :,,,,,, : : :,,, :, cases : : : : : : : :, : :,,, : category :, : causation : : central :, : : certain : certainly :, : : :,, : : : cetera : change : : channel : charge :, charged : : charging : Chief :, : : : : : :, :, : choice : choose : chooses :,, choosing : : chosen : :, : circumstance : :, : : :, : : : : : : : : :,, : : : : circumstances : :,, :, :,, : : : : : : : : :, : cite : :, cited : : citizen : country : counts : couple : course : : court :, :, :, :,, : :,,,, :, : :, :,, :, : : : : :,, :,, : :,,, : :, :, :,, : :, :, : : : :,,,, :,,,,, :,, : : :, : Court's : : : : : covered : : : : co-defendant : created : creation : crime : :,, :, : : :, : criminal : critical :, cruel :, : culpable :, cutting : D D : :, :, : date : dealing : death : :, :, : : :, : :, : : : :,,, :, : :, :,, :, : :,, :, :, : :,,, :, :, :, : : : : :,, :, :,,, : :,,,, : : : decide : : : decided :,, :,, : : decision : : :,,, : : :, : : : decisions : : : : decisis : : defendant :,, : :, :,, : :, : :,, : :, : : : defendants : : :, defined : defining : definition : : : degree :, : : : : clarified : classically : clear :, : : : : : : : : : : clearly : : Clemons : :,, : colonial :, : come : : : : : : comes :, : comment : commit : : committed : common :, :,,, :, : : community :, : complicated : complies : comply : compulsion : conceded : conceivably : concern : concerns : concluded : conclusion : : condition : conduct :,, : conducts : connection :, : consider :, considered :, : : consistent : conspiracy : :,, : conspirator : Constitution : : : : : : constitutional : :, : constitutionality : constraints : constructed : construed : contend : context : :, : : :, contexts : contrast : controlled : controls : converted : convicted :, : : : : conviction : core :, correct : : : :, : : counsel : th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC :, :, : : : : : demand : denies : deny : depart : : departure : departures : depending : depiction : derived : derives : : deserve : : deserves : design : : designed : :, desire : determination : : : : : :, determine : : : : : determined : determining : : dictated : difference : : :,, : : : : : : different : :, : : : : :,, :,, : :, : differently : : difficult : : : : difficulties : direct : : directly : : : disagree : :, discharging : discretion : :,,,,, : : : : :, discretionary : : : discussed : discussion : distinction : :, : : : : : :, : distinctions : distinguish : : distinguishable : doing : : done : : doubt : : : down : : downward : draw : driven : driver :, : : drug : : D.C : E E : :, each : earlier :, effect : : : : : eight : Eighth : : :, : :,, : :,,, : :, :, : : : : :,,,, either : : : : : elaborate : element :,, : : : :,,,, : elements : : : : : : : eligible : : eliminate : embraced : : : : empowered : enact : enacted : end : : :, enforced : England : enhance : : :, :, enhanced : : : enhancement :, enhancements : : Enmund/Tison :, : : : : enough : : : : enter : : entirely :, entitled : :,, : : : entitles : equally : ESQ :, :,, establish : establishing : et : even :, : : :, :, :,,, : : every : Everyone : evidence : : : exact : : exactly : example : : : examples : exceed : : : Except : exception : excess : excluded : Excuse : exempt :, :, exempted : exist : expand :, expanded : : explain : explanation : explicit : explicitly : : exposes : express : : expressed : expressly : : extend : extends : :,, extent : : F face :, : faced : fact : :, : :,, : : : : : :, : :,, : : : : :,, : : :, : : :, : :,, : factor : : :,, : :, :, : factors :,, : :, : : : : :, :, : : : :, : : facts :, : :, : : :,,, :, :, : : : :, : :, :,, fail : fair : fallen : farther : Federal : :, feel : felony : : :, :, : : : felt : fewer : field : figure : final : :, : find :, : : : : : : :,, :, : : : : : finding : : :,, :, : :,, : : :,, :, :, : : th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC :, :, : :,,, : : :, : :,, : findings : : : :, : finds : fine : firearm : firearms : first :, : :, :, : : : : : : : :,, : :, : : : : : : : go : :, :, : : : : :, : : : : goes : : going : : : : :, : :,,, good : government : grand : grant : great : greater : : Gretzler :, guarantee : : : : Florida : : : :,,,, : : : focus : : following : footnote : force : : forced : form : :,, formal : forth :, : : :, : forward : : found : : : :, : : : : : : : :, : :, :,, : : four : framing : from : : : : : : : :, : : : : :, : :, :, :, : front : full : fully : function : : : : Furman : : :,,, : :,,, : : : : : Furman's : further : : G G : gain :,,, :, : : : : game : General : : : : : : :, gets : : getting : Ginsburg : : give : : : : : : gives : guidelines :,, :, :, :, : guilt : : : H hairs : hand : handed : happen : happened : happens : hard : : : Harris : having : : hear : : : hearing : : : hears : heavily : held : : Hence : her : Hildwin : him : : : :, history :,,, hold : holding : homicide : : Honor :, : : : :, : : :, :, : : : : : : : :, :,, : : Honors : huge : human : Hurwitz : :, :,,, :, : :, : :,,, : :, : : :, : :, :,, :,, : : :, : : : : :, : hypo : I idea : : identically : imagine : : : : implicate : implicated :,, :, : : : : implication : : : implications : implicit : : implicitly : : impliedly : important : : : : impose : :, : :, : : :, imposed : : : : : : : : imposing : imposition : : : : : : imprisonment : inappropriate : inclined : incorporated : increased : indeed : indicted :, indictment : individual :, individualized : initial : initially : : innovation : insist : instance : instead : :, : instructions : intent : : intentional : interpreted : interrupt : invite : invited : involved : : : issue :, :, :,, : : : : : : : : :, : :,,, : issues : : : J JANET : : : jaywalking : Jersey : joint : Jones : : : : : : th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC : : : judge : : : :,, :, : :,, : : :, : : : : : :, : : :,,,,, : : : : : : : : : : judges : judge's : judgment : judicial : juries : jurisprudence : : : : : : : : juror :, jury :,, : :, :, : : : :, : : :,,,, :,, : :, :, : :,, :,, :,, :, :, :, :,,,, : :,,,, : :,, : :,,, : :, :, :,, :, :, : : : jury's : : :, just : : : :, :, : :,, : : : Justice :, : : :, : :, : : : : : : : :, : : : :,, : : : :, : : Justices : Justice's : K Kennedy : : : : kill : killed :, : : killing : : : kind : : :,, : : :, :,, : : : kinds : : knew : : know : : : : : : :,,, : : :, :, known : knows : : L labels : language : :, large : last : late : later : : : Laughter : law : :,,,, : : :,, :, :,, : :,,,,, :, :, :, : :, :, : : : : : :, : :, :, : laws : : lay : least : : : :, : left :, legal : :, legislation : legislative : legislators : legislature : :, : :, : leniency : : : less : : : :, let : : : :, : : : : :, :, let's : : level :, : : : levels : life : :, : : :,,, : : : : :, : : like : : : : : limit :, limited : : line : list : listed : literal :, literature : little : logical : long : : longer : look : : : looking : : lot : M made : : :, :,, :, : :, : : :,, : : :, : : : : : : :, : Magoch : major : :, make : : : : :,, : : : : :, : : : : : : : :, : makes : : : : : : making : : :, : : : man : mandate : : mandated :, : mandatory : many :,, matches : matter : : : : maximum : : :, : : : : :, : : : : : : : : may :, : :, : : :, : : : : :, : :,,, maybe : : McMillan : mean : : : :, : : :, : : measurements : mechanism : membership : mens : mentioned : :, mercies : merely : : mid-s : might : : :, :, : : : : Miller :,, minimum : minutes : Mississippi : mitigating : :, : : : : : mitigation :,,, :, mitigators : modern : Monday : more : : : most :, : motivated : motivation :, :, :, : moving : much : multiple : murder :, : :,, : :, : :,, :,,, : :, :, : : : : murdered : murders : : must : : :, : : : : : th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC N N :, : Napolitano : : :,, : : :, :, :,, :,, : :, :,, :,,, :,,, :, : :,, :,, : :,,, :, :, :,,, : :, :, : :, : narrow : narrowed :,, narrowing : : : : : : necessarily : : : necessary : :, : : : : : : : : : : : : :, necessity : need : neither : : neutral : never :, : :, : : nevertheless : new : :, : : next : : : nine : non : None : nonetheless : non-death : : non-shooter : normal : note : nothing : : : notice : : :,,, noting : notion : : novel : number : : : : : : : : O O : : obscenity :, : obtain : obtains : obvious : obviously : : occasions : : : : off : offenders : offense : offenses : officer :, : oh : okay : : : : once : : : : one : : :, : :, :,,,, : : : :, :,,,, : :,, : :, :, : : : : : ones : only : :, : :, : : : : : : : performing : perhaps :,, : permit : permitted : person : : : persuade : pertinent : petit : petitioner :, :, : : : : : : possibility : :,,, : overruled :, : : : : onto : open :,,, operating :, opinion : opponent's : : opportunity : Opposing : oral : : : : order : : : : :, : :, : : :, : original : : other : : : :, : : : : : : : otherwise : ought : out : : : : : : : : outweigh : : over : overrule : : : : : P P : page : : parole : :,,, part : : : : : : : : : : : : participant : particular :,,,, : :, : : :, : : : : : : parts : passed : peace :, : pecuniary :,,, :, : : :,, : : peers : : : penalty :, :, : : :,, : : :, : : :,, :, :, :, :,, :, : :, : :, : :, :, : perfectly : : petitioner's :, : phase :, :, :, : Phoenix :, phrase : picked : place : : : :, plain : plainly : : : planning : play : playing : please : : : point :,, : : : :, : : : :,, Poland : : policy : : portion : portions : posed : : position :,, :, : : : possible :, : : post : post-Furman : post-trial : Potter : Powell : : power : : : practice : pre : : : precedent : precedents : precisely :, : : : precursor : predicates : premeditated : prerequisite : prerequisites : presented : presently : presents : presumably : presumptive : : :, previously : pre-Furman : th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC principle : : :, :,, :, :, :,, : : : : : : : : :, : :, : questions : : quite : : : : : principles : : prior : prison : : probably : problem : : problems : procedure : : : : : proceeding :,,, : : : : proceedings : process : : : : Proffitt : : progeny : prohibition : proof : : : proportionality : : proposed : protection : : :,, protections : : : : : protector : proved : : provide : : provided : : providing : : province : punish :, punishment :, :,, : : : : : : :, : : : : : : : : punishments : : purely :, purpose : : : : : purposes : : put : :, : : : : : putting : p.m : Q qualified : question : : :, : :, : :,, : : : : : :, :, : : :, :, : : :, : :, :, :,,, :,,, :, :,, :,,, :,, :,, :,,, :, :,, :,,,, :, :, :,, :, :, : :, :, :,, : : R R : racial :, : : raised : range : : : : : ranging : rather :, : : rea : read : : real :, really : : : :, reason : : :, : : : reasonable : reasoning : REBUTTAL : : receive : received : : recited : recognize : : recommend : recommendation : record : :,,, : referred : reflects : regard : Rehnquist : : : relatively : remaining : : remains : remanded : remember : render : rendered : reopen : repeated : require : : : required : : :,, :, : : : :, requirement : : : : :, requirements : : requires : : : : :, : : reserve : reserved : resist : resolve : respect : : :, : : : : : : : : : : Respondent : : : response : :, : : responses : responsibility : result : : resulted : return : : reus : reversal : reversed : review : : : right : :, : :, :, : :, :, : Ring : : : : : : : rise : rob :, robbery :, : :,,,, :, : role :,, rooting : routes : rule : : : :, : : : : ruling : S S : : same :, : : : : : : :,, : :, satisfy : saying : : :, :, : : : : says : : : : : : : Scalia : : : : : : scene :,, scheme : schemes : second : :, : : : : section : see : : seem : :, seems : : : : : : : : :, sentence :,, : :, :, :,, :, :, : : :,, :, : : : :, : :, :, : :,, :,, :,, sentenced : : : : sentencer : sentences : : : sentencing : :, :, : : : : :, : th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC :, : : : :, :,,, :, : : : : : : :, :, : : sentiment : separate :, : : : : : separately : series : set :, : : several :, : : : severing : sexual : show : : showing : side : : simple : : simply : : : :, : : : since : : single : :, : : situation : : : : : Sixth : :, :, :, : : : : : : :, :, :, : : : :,,, :,,, :,, : solely : solved : some : :, : : : :, :, somebody : somehow : : : : someone : something :, : : : : somewhat : : sorry : : sort : : : : sorting : source :, so-called : : :, : Spaziano : : : specific : :,,, :, : : specifically : specified :, : : : specifies : specify : : specifying : stage :, standard : stare : : start : starting : state :,, :, : :, : : : :,, :, :, :, : : :, :,,, :, : :, :, : :, : : :, :,, stated : statement : : States :, :, :,, : : : : : :, :, : : : : State's : : : :, statistics :, status : statute :, :,,, :, : :, :, : : :,,, :,, : : :, :,, statutes : : : :, : :, statutory : : : Stevens : : : Stewart : :, : still : : : : : straightforwardly : strange : strike : strikes :, : : struck : structure :,, structures : Stuart : : subject : subjected : submit : submitted :, substantial : substantive : :, sufficient : suggest : :, : : : : : : :, :, : : : :, : :,, :, suggested : :, : : : : : suggesting :, : : suggestion : : :, : suggestions : suggests : : summarize : supported : supposed : supposing : : : Supreme :, :,,,, :,, : : :, : sure : : : surely : : surprise : : system :,, : :, : : systematically : : systems : : : T T :, take : : : : :, : taken : takes : talking :, tell :, :, : telling : tender : term : : terms : test : :, : testified : testimony : Thank :, : their : : themselves : theory :, thing : things : : think : :,,, : : : : :,, : :,, :, : :, : : :, : :,, : : : :,, : : thinks : though : thought : :, : three : through : : : : throughout : throw : throws : time : : : : :, :, : times :, : : Timothy : : today :,, : : : : told : trace : track : tradition : traditionally : transcript :, :, transfer : treatment : trial : : :, : :, : : : : : : :, : : : tried : trier : th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC triggerman : true : : : : try : : trying : turn : : two : : :, : : : : :, : type : types : typically : U ultimate : : :, : unanimous :, unconstitutional :, : under : :, : : :, : : :, : : : :, : : : : : :, : :, : underlied : underlies : : underlying : : : : : :, : : : : understand : : understanding : unequivocally : unfortunately : unguided : unique : : : unitary : United :, : unknown : unless : : : : : : unlimited : unprecedented : until : : unusual :, : unworkable : upheld : : upward :, upwards : : urge :, : :, urged : use :, used : uses : usually : V v : :, :, :, :, verdict :, : :, : : versus : very : : :, : :, : : : : :, : victim :, : : : : : : : : :, : : : : : : -year : : : : : : : : : : : : : :, : : violate : virtually : W Walton : : :,, : : : : : : want : : : : : :, : wash : Washington : wasn't : way :, : : : : : : : : : weeks : weigh : weighed : : weighing :, : : : : : weight : well : : : :, : : : :, : : : : : : :, : : : went : : were : : : : : : : : : : : : we'll : :, : we're : :, : : : : :, : we've : : : :, whatsoever : : whim : whole : : : :, wish :, worded : works : world : : worse : worst :, wouldn't : : : wrong : X :, X Y year : : :, : years :,, : : : :, York :, : - : : : : :, : : : : th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC 