 IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XWASHINGTON STATE DEPARTMENT OF SOCIAL AND HEALTH SERVICES, ET AL., Petitioners ::::v. : No. -GUARDIANSHIP ESTATE OF DANNY KEFFELER, ET AL. ::- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XWashington, D.C.Tuesday, December , The above-entitled matter came on for oralargument before the Supreme Court of the United States at: a.m.APPEARANCES:CHRISTINE O. GREGOIRE, ESQ., Attorney General, Olympia,Washington; on behalf of the Petitioners.PATRICIA A. MILLETT, ESQ., Assistant to the SolicitorGeneral, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; onbehalf of the United States, as amicus curiae,supporting the Petitioners. TERESA W. ROSEBOROUGH, ESQ., Atlanta, Georgia; on behalfof the Respondents. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC C O N T E N T SORAL ARGUMENT OF CHRISTINE O. GREGOIRE, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioners PATRICIA A. MILLETT, ESQ.On behalf of the United States, as amicus curiae, supporting the Petitioners TERESA W. ROSEBOROUGH, ESQ.On behalf of the Respondents REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OFCHRISTINE O. GREGOIRE, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioners PAGE th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC P R O C E E D I N G S(: a.m.)JUSTICE STEVENS: We will hear argument in No.-, Washington State Department of Social Servicesagainst the Guardianship Estate of Daniel Keffeler.General -- is it Gregoire or Gregory?ORAL ARGUMENT OF CHRISTINE O. GREGOIREON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERSMS. GREGOIRE: Gregoire.QUESTION: Gregoire. Thank you. MS. GREGOIRE: Justice Stevens, and may itplease the Court:The question presented in this case is whether arepresentative payee, appointed by the commissioner ofSocial Security, violates the anti-alienation provision of U.S.C., section (a), when it uses Social Securitybenefits to pay for the beneficiary's current maintenance.The plain text of section (a) answers thisquestion, and the answer is no. Section (a) provides that benefits are notsubject to execution, levy, attachment, garnishment, orother legal process. The department here does not usecompulsory legal process to obtain benefits. Instead, thedepartment is appointed representative payee by thecommissioner, pursuant to U.S.C., section (j), and th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC as payee, the department is under the supervision of thecommissioner and uses the benefits to pay for the currentmaintenance of the beneficiary in accordance with theSocial Security regulations. In short, when looking at the statutes as awhole, (a) does not prohibit that which is expresslyauthorized by (j). The purpose of (a) is to ensurethat Social Security benefits are available to pay thebeneficiary's current maintenance by preventing creditorsfrom taking those benefits. Legal process, as referencedin (a), is the means by which a court, agency, orofficial authorized by -- by law compels compliance withits demands. It is compulsory legal process. Here there is no legal process. Therepresentative payee here stands in the shoes of the beneficiary, sharing in the cost of care, consistent withthe Social Security regulations. QUESTION: Can a set-off ever be legal process? Suppose there were a tax indebtedness by the beneficiary. Could the State just under -- assuming that its set-offprinciples allowed it, could the State simply take some ofthe beneficiary's money from the Social Security and setit off against the tax debt?MS. GREGOIRE: If -- the violation of (a)comes in -- comes into play when there's a legal process th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC that actually attaches to those Social Security benefits. QUESTION: So you would say there's no violation in that event. MS. GREGOIRE: Correct. QUESTION: Although I presume there would be acause of action against the State for -- for not behavingproperly as the -- what -- what is the -- the --MS. GREGOIRE: Representative payee?QUESTION: As the representative payee withinthat --MS. GREGOIRE: I believe that's true, JusticeScalia. The questions that have been presented here by --by the respondents are (j) questions as to whether therepresentative payee acted accordingly within theirpurview. Here there is full compliance with the Social Security regulations. In this particular instance, thedepartment is duly recognized as a representative payeesubject to supervision, having to submit constant reportsand annual reports and accounting system, and there areaudits that have been performed on the department. It isacting in accordance with (j) as rep payee.QUESTION: And why -- why is (j) not at issuehere?MS. GREGOIRE: Well --QUESTION: Because those points are raised, of th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC course, in the -- in your opponent's brief.MS. GREGOIRE: Yes, Your Honor, but if you -- ifyou look at the complaint in this particular case by -- bythe respondent, if you look at the certification of theclass that's present here, if you look at the holdingbelow, in every instance the question presented is whethera representative payee duly appointed can use the benefitsfor the cost of care of the beneficiary. We think theplain text of (a) says the answer is there is noviolation whatsoever.QUESTION: General Gregoire, I'd like to justfind out if -- let's say we accept your argument this isnot a case, and then the question is put, but thereare alleged misappropriations here. For example, there'ssome suggestion of double dipping and there's some other things which may or may not be right. I don't know thatthere is such a thing as a right of any individual to goafter the representative payee. I thought that wassomething within the Social Security regs. I thought Iheard you say, oh, yes, but that's not a claim. Thatwould be a claim. And I was not aware that there issuch a thing apart from the administrative process. Isthere some right to sue eventually in court under ?MS. GREGOIRE: What the Social Security Actprovides is one of two things. It can be done by the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC commissioner by the removal of the representative payee ifthey have violated. It can be done by a court. But theremedy, if -- even if done by a court, is back to thecommissioner to remove the representative payee andappoint one that would act in -- in accordance with theregulations. Here, while there are allegations --QUESTION: And who -- who can invoke the court'sassistance? The --MS. GREGOIRE: An individual, the -- thebeneficiary could. QUESTION: The beneficiary can?MS. GREGOIRE: Yes. But here, all of those allegations, one, are notcontained within the holding below, but most importantly, there is no record to find any violation of (j) in thiscase whatsoever. To the contrary. The department herehas acted absolutely consistent with the Social --QUESTION: May I ask you this question relatedto that? Do you agree with the position asserted in thedissent, with the State court? MS. GREGOIRE: We -- we do not, Your Honor. Webelieve the -- the dissent is wrong on -- on two bases. One, the -- the court below suggested that there was someuse of -- of benefits for past debt -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: Right. MS. GREGOIRE: -- when in fact there -- that isnot the case here and there is no finding to that effectby the lower court.QUESTION: No finding. Were there allegationsto that effect? MS. GREGOIRE: Only after the -- the remandand -- and the supplemental brief that was submitted inthe State supreme court. But there -- in this particular case, whathappens, by way of clarification, is when the State ofWashington gets a lump sum check for an individual whoseSSI, Social Security Title XVI application has beenpending, they will then use that check to pay currentmaintenance for those months for which the child was deemed eligible for SSI and was receiving foster care upto a maximum of months. That is considered currentmaintenance, not past maintenance. We think the -- theconcurring opinion was confused by that. Secondly, the concurring opinion says, you --QUESTION: Excuse me. Why -- why do you say itis considered current and not past? You -- you justdecide months is a reasonable currency criterion?MS. GREGOIRE: No. QUESTION: Or is it a regulation or what? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MS. GREGOIRE: It is. It is, Your Honor. Justice Scalia, what the Social Security regulations putin place with respect to Title XVI benefits, SSI, thatanything beyond months by Social Security itself is putinto an account and allowed to accumulate interest. Itcannot be used for the current maintenance of the child.And the second basis -- Justice Stevens, thesecond basis that we think was wrong in -- in theconcurring opinion is where she finds that you have tolook at the extras for the child first, over and abovecurrent maintenance, and that we submit to you is in --contrary to the Federal regulations themselves, C.F.R.., which expressly provides that you look first tothe current maintenance. That's the very purpose behindboth Title II and Title XVI, first to the current maintenance, and then you guess -- within the broaddiscretion accorded a representative payee, you may lookto see if there are extras to which those monies could bespent. Here, the Department of Social and HealthServices uses the benefits for both, and the recordverifies that. But let me bring to the Court's attention whatwe're talking about here. We're talking about childrenwho arrive in the State's custody through a juvenile court th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC proceeding, having been abandoned, abused, or neglected. They are subject to the jurisdiction of the juvenilecourt, and then those children are assessed by anindividual service plan as to what their needs are. Andwhat happens when that assessment takes place is theirneeds are being met by the department. In fact, the average payment for foster care fora SSI child is $,. The average amount that an SSIbenefit would be is something short of $. And the basefoster care amount is something short of $. The factis the special needs of these children are being met sotheir lives can be turned around, they can go back out andbe productive members of society --QUESTION: Well, I -- I think we're allinterested in the needs of the children. In some cases, though, I take it that the --that the Social Security payments are being applied toreimburse the State for something the child would get forfree anyway.MS. GREGOIRE: We don't submit, Your Honor -- wethink that's wrong. The fact that these children are --are getting foster care doesn't mean it's free. In fact,the expectation of both Social Security --QUESTION: Well, I mean free in the sense thatthe State would pay for it anyway. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MS. GREGOIRE: Your Honor, there is anexpectation in State law and an expectation in the SocialSecurity Act that -- that what this money is to be usedfor is the current maintenance of the child. What wouldbe the difference if we were to submit that it's free inthe home of a parent? A parent surely -- and underWashington State law -- absolutely is obligated to pay forthe child's care and maintenance. Are we then to suggestthat anytime a child in the home of a parent gets SSA orSSI, it can't be used for current maintenance because theparent has to use their own funds for that purpose? QUESTION: Well, but we're talking about the --the State has a certain -- has assumed a certainobligation and made certain payments. And in the eventthe representative payee is someone other than the State, the State is going to pay -- pay those benefits and -- andthe SSI will be available for other purposes. So it's --it's not necessarily always in the best interest for thechild. MS. GREGOIRE: But, Justice Kennedy, that wouldbe -- that would be the case with a parent. A parent isobligated to pay for the current maintenance of the child. Does that mean they can never use their SSA or SSI benefitfor the child for the current maintenance of the child? We think not. Consistent with the very purpose of the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Social Security Act, is -- these monies are to ensure thatthat child gets a minimum income to pay for their currentmaintenance. The State shouldn't be treated any differenthere than a parent would be treated. QUESTION: General Gregoire, can I ask you aboutthe person who started all this? As I understand it, the-- the grandmother that the State was trying to displaceas representative payee refused to pay anything for thechild's current maintenance. She was putting it away in akitty for the child's college education. And I supposeher theory was the State is going to pick up the tabanyway, so I think the best use for these Social Securitybenefits is to put them in a bank account so one day hecan go to college. Is -- and I understand there were two attempts to replace her because she was not spending the money oncurrent maintenance. When the -- when the social service agency isnot the representative payee but a relative who doesn'thave custody is, is there any means of getting thoseSocial Security benefits used for the current maintenance?MS. GREGOIRE: Not by legal process, JusticeGinsburg, which was a lesson learned by the grandmother,Wanda Pierce, in this case. The department wrongfullyattempted to get at the Social Security benefits by legal th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC process. That's why there is no appeal of the specificDanny Keffeler case.QUESTION: Why is it wrong? I mean, this moneyis there to pay for the child's care and maintenance. Ifthe grandmother won't pay it, why couldn't the State go toHHS and say, appoint us?MS. GREGOIRE: Well, you --QUESTION: Why wouldn't they do it?MS. GREGOIRE: You could. The issue is a (j)issue. The issue is whether that person should be payingfor the current maintenance of the child. QUESTION: Why shouldn't they? MS. GREGOIRE: They should. But what happenedin this particular case is Washington State has a specificstatutory provision that says if the child has a guardian, the State cannot go in there and then ask to berepresentative payee. So there's a violation of Statelaw.QUESTION: Oh, I see. So there's aparticular -- a particular State law --MS. GREGOIRE: Correct. QUESTION: -- that stopped that.MS. GREGOIRE: Correct. QUESTION: Okay. So --QUESTION: Is that the basis on which the ALJ th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ruled? I thought that was within the Social Securitystructure. MS. GREGOIRE: The ALJ in the case of DannyKeffeler said that there was no finding that she hadwrongfully used the benefits, but went on to suggest atthe end that the State hadn't done anything like submit abill to her showing an expectation that she wasresponsible to provide for the benefit and care of thischild. QUESTION: But that wasn't under State law, wasit? That was -- that was a Federal --MS. GREGOIRE: That's correct, Justice Ginsburg. The point being --QUESTION: Then that's what creates the problembecause if you have a State law and the grandmother just says, no, I'm not going to pay this money, which I wouldhave thought was earmarked for that purpose, pretty much,and they won't do it, and then you say, okay, appoint us,and the State says, no, we -- we cannot appoint ourselves,and then you say to the grandmother, well, pay us, well,then you really are a creditor in respect to that.MS. GREGOIRE: Well -- and specifically whathappened in the case of Danny Keffeler, when the Stateattempted legal process against Wanda Pierce, that waswrong. That was a violation of (a) -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: And you're in an anomalous situation,aren't you? I mean, here -- here you have -- if you -- ifyou -- you're a creditor in respect to the grandmother whowon't pay. I -- I don't quite see how to work it out. There's going to be an anomaly no matter what you do. You're a creditor in respect to the grandmother, so youcan't force the parents to pay. And you can't go and askHHS to appoint you because of the State law. And thenthere you are in those instances where you did manage toget yourself appointed, and you're now trying to reach adifferent result than would be there in the other cases.MS. GREGOIRE: But Justice Breyer, the remedy isthe State could go to the Social Security Administrationand ask them to consider an alternative representativepayee for the child in this case because Wanda Pierce was not providing for the current maintenance of the child aswe believe she should.We believe --QUESTION: And she might have if she had to carefor the child. If she -- if the representative payee --if the child is in the custody of the representativepayee, then the representative payee has to pay for thechild. MS. GREGOIRE: Under State law, we believe therepresentative payee should pay for the current th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC maintenance of the child whether in the custody of thatindividual or not. The remedy, however, is not by legalprocess (a), but the remedy is (j) process by goingto the Social Security Administration and asking --QUESTION: Which gives it -- there's no role forthe State court in that.MS. GREGOIRE: Correct.QUESTION: In that (j) process. It's allFederal. MS. GREGOIRE: That's correct.And with that --QUESTION: And under (j), when you go to theSocial Security Administration, its options are what?MS. GREGOIRE: To remove that individual as arepresentative payee and appoint another. QUESTION: Put you in.MS. GREGOIRE: If -- unless we have a State law,as I indicated in the specific case of Danny Keffeler,would not allow us because she was named guardian. That'scorrect, Your Honor. With that, I would like to reserve my remainingtime for rebuttal.QUESTION: Very well. Thank you.Ms. Millett. ORAL ARGUMENT OF PATRICIA A. MILLETT th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ON BEHALF OF THE UNITED STATESAS AMICUS CURIAE, SUPPORTING THE PETITIONERSMS. MILLETT: Justice Stevens, and may it pleasethe Court:There is no question that the use of SocialSecurity benefits to pay for current maintenance needs bya beneficiary or by a parent as representative payee ispermitted under the Social Security Act. There is noreason that the identical use of funds would suddenlybecome a prohibited alienation of Social Security benefitsjust because it's done by a State as representative payee. The anti-alienation provision of the Social Security Actprohibits the use of judicial processes or similarcoercive processes to divert funds away from meeting theneeds of a beneficiary. But there's nothing in the text or the purpose of the anti-alienation provision thatsupports the Washington Supreme Court's conclusion that itprohibits particular types of payments and expenditures offunds that the representative payee provision of thestatute specifically permits. And that is because -- it's very important tounderstand that when a State serves as a representativepayee, it does not receive funds, and it does not spendfunds as an interposing claimant or creditor. Instead,under the Social Security program, it steps into the shoes th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC of the beneficiary. It cannot act unilaterally. It hasto be appointed by the commissioner and, once appointed,must act pursuant to the commissioner's direction,supervision, and control. QUESTION: Is -- is the issue of whether therewas compliance with section (j) properly before us, doyou think? MS. MILLETT: No, it is not, Justice O'Connor. The question presented is limited to the violation of theanti-alienation provision (a). The complaint in thiscase is limited to (a). If you look at the jointappendix, page , specifically the -- the claim forrelief, the aforesaid actions violate U.S.C. , noallegation of violating . And there would be no basis,I don't think, for the class action. The class action allegations were based on this general rule of the violation. If there's particular allegations of misuse inparticular cases for particular children, that would be amisuse claim. It should first be brought to the SocialSecurity Administration. QUESTION: Do -- do beneficiaries of SSI fundshave a Federal right that they can enforce through asection action to have the representative payee actin their best interests? MS. MILLETT: What they would do is bring -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC bring a complaint. If you're -- if you're a beneficiaryand you're dissatisfied with the way your payee isspending your money --QUESTION: Right. MS. MILLETT: -- then you can bring a complaintwith the Social Security --QUESTION: Would there be alternatively somelawsuit open --MS. MILLETT: They -- I think --QUESTION: -- under ?MS. MILLETT: I'm not sure whether under ,but you could bring certainly a State law conversion out-- suit against someone if you thought that they weremisapplying your funds. And -- and I assume you'retalking about because we're talking about the State as --QUESTION: Right.MS. MILLETT: -- payee, but the vast majority ofrepresentative payees are private individuals. QUESTION: Does -- does the State have any set-off rights that private entities don't? Suppose a privateperson were the representative payee. Do they have thesame sort of set-off rights for other debts as the Statedoes? MS. MILLETT: Neither -- make sure I understand th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC what you're talking about by set-off. But neither privatenor State officials would have the right to set off moneyagainst -- on -- on their own unilaterally to --QUESTION: Well, I'm just talking about now. I'm just talking about . Because the attorney generalindicated that the State could, so far as isconcerned, set off a tax debt.MS. MILLETT: I didn't understand that to be her-- her response. But if -- but, first of all, you have toask how you come into possession. To undertake an offset,you somehow have to be in possession of the SocialSecurity check, and the State and private people would notcome into possession of that check unless they'reappointed as a representative payee.QUESTION: I'm assuming there -- my -- my question is whether -- what I'm trying to explore iswhether the State has some special advantages that otherrepresentative payees might not in the area of being -- ofbeing allowed to make certain set-offs to take certainfunds. Because if that's so, then it sounds more likelegal process. That was the --MS. MILLETT: I'm sorry. I misunderstood yourquestion. I didn't know that they had been appointedrepresentative payee. Once you are a representative payee, the State th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC and a private payee are in the same position in that whenit comes to reimbursing yourself for past debts, asopposed to meeting current maintenance needs, the -- you-- you are subject to the Social Security Administration'srules. They have specific POMS and regulations on paymentof past debts and --QUESTION: In other words, the State ofWashington is not relying here on any special statutoryauthority for set-offs that's applicable only to a State.MS. MILLETT: No, it is not.What's important to understand here -- and Ithink one of the premises for respondents' position issome confusion about the difference between currentmaintenance and past debts. Past debts are defined bothin a POMS, the -- the interpretive manual done by the Social Security Administration, but also in theregulations on page of the petition appendix,.(d), when it talks about claims of creditors to bepaid by a representative payee. It -- the limitation ison claims that arise prior to the first month for whichyou become entitled to benefits. That's what a past debtis. It would be reimbursed by a payee. Any debts that arise after you start receivingbenefits are current maintenance costs. So if I get abenefit check for January but for administrative reasons th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC the State does not pay my bills for that month untilMarch, that's not a reimbursement. That is payment ofcurrent maintenance by the January check for Januarycosts.QUESTION: May I -- may I ask you a questionabout mechanics here? Just the facts are a little hardfor me to understand at times. As I understand it, manyof these children are in foster homes and the fosterparents are paid by the State. Is the State agency thatpays the foster parents the same agency that receives theFederal check? MS. MILLETT: Yes, it is. There are twodifferent units within -- it's the department -- inWashington, it's the Department of Social and HumanServices that --QUESTION: And the second question I had --there's a lot of discussion in the briefs about somethingcalled sweeping, which I don't understand. Would you tellme what it is? MS. MILLETT: Well, I'm afraid it may havedifferent meanings depending on whom you ask the questionto. But as -- as it's discussed by the Court here, the --our understanding is that it -- it is this confusion aboutreimbursement and current maintenance. What Washingtonwas doing was it would get a check in May that would be a th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC lump sum payment for February, March, April, and May. Andit would go back and apply February's -- the -- thepercentage of that lump sum check that was for February tothe February expenses, March to the March expenses. Thatis the account sweeping that's talked about in the Courthere and that's all that the record talks about.That is not impermissible. That is, under ourview, the use of -- use of this -- proper use of thesebenefits for current maintenance. The fact that foraccounting reasons it happens months later doesn'tchange anything. Now --QUESTION: What if it happens --QUESTION: What if it happens months --QUESTION: -- even months later? QUESTION: -- months --QUESTION: Yes. Is there a -month cutoff onthat? MS. MILLETT: With respect to the SSI, the TitleXVI benefits, there is -- there was after October ,and that's why there's some confusion because this casespanned that bridge. But as of October --QUESTION: It's a little complicated, doesn'tit?MS. MILLETT: There's a lot of complicated th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC things here. But the -- but -- but for that reason, the factthe commissioner has been administering this program andthe representative payee's program since it started in and it has recognized and endorsed the practice ofall States having foster care agencies doing this asnot violating the anti-alienation provision is, I think,very important to keep in mind and that adopting thedefinition of anti-alienation provision, using that topolice allegations of misuse under the representativepayee system would be very confounding and confusing tothe system. QUESTION: May I ask you one question I askedthe attorney general too? Do you also disagree with theanalysis in the dissenting opinion? MS. MILLETT: Yes, for -- for two reasons.QUESTION: The same reasons she gave.MS. MILLETT: Well, yes, I think it has againthe confusion about past reimbursements which could stillbe for current maintenance and the payment of past debts.But the other thing that the Washington SupremeCourt's concurring dissenting opinion did was it said youcould -- you could pay for maintenance, but first you haveto pay for special needs. That gets it exactly upsidedown. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC The -- there's much concern here about the bestinterest -- the best interest test here, but the bestinterest is a regulatory test designed to implement thepurpose of these benefits. And the purpose of thesebenefits in the case of Danny Keffeler, Title II benefits,is just to replace the income stream of the lost parent. That parent is legally obliged to pay child support to theState of Washington. All Washington is doing is what hismother would have been legally obligated to do under --under State law with that same income. So it's consistentwith the purpose of these benefits to use them for whatthey're doing. The SSI benefits are minimum income,establish a minimum floor. All that Washington has saidis when the Federal Government --QUESTION: But, of course, there's -- there's a statutory restriction on what the -- when the money comesfrom the Federal Government that does not apply when themoney comes from the family.MS. MILLETT: On?QUESTION: .MS. MILLETT: That's right. But it's important-- it's important to understand the limited role of . It said you can't come get these benefits, but it doesn'tmean that -- that debts and obligations to pay can't ariseand that you can't enforce, against the parents who may th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC have other income, child support through other mechanisms. You just can't come after, through a legal process, theSocial Security benefits. Thank you, Justice Stevens. QUESTION: Thank you very much. Ms. Roseborough.ORAL ARGUMENT OF TERESA W. ROSEBOROUGHON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTSMS. ROSEBOROUGH: Justice Stevens, and may itplease the Court:I think the Court's questions have hit on thekey issues here, and I'd like to point out what I believeto be the errors in the State of Washington and the UnitedStates' analysis in this case. I agree with Ms. Millett that the Social Security benefits that the State receives asrepresentative payee on behalf of these children indeedbelong to the children. And in its role as representativepayee, the State essentially steps into their shoes to usethe benefits to serve their best interests. The regulation-mandated transfer from a Statetrust fund account, which is the account in which theState deposits the children's funds when they arereceived, to the State treasury occurs in the State ofWashington because of the operation of the State statute th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC and two regulations, one superseding the other, thatmandate that the State shall use those benefits toreimburse its previously advanced costs of care.There's a singular exception in the regulationsthat permits a State to advance costs of care to a SocialSecurity disability recipient and then later seekreimbursement out of the paid disability benefits for thatcare, and that is found at U.S.C., section (g)(). That provision specifically provides an exception to theoperation of section (a), and provides that whereappropriate agreements are in place between the State andthe commissioner of Social Security and between the Stateand the individual, that a State may advance costs of carein the period between the application for benefits and thedate on which benefits are received and then seek reimbursement out of the Social Security funds for thatperiod of interim assistance. Apart from that exception, the use of SocialSecurity benefits to reimburse previously advanced costsof care or public assistance is the payment of a debtwithin the meaning of the Social Security regulations. QUESTION: Ms. Roseborough, I want to make surethat I understand what you're saying because it seems tome you're telling us the Social -- the food and shelterand clothing must be provided to the child today and th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC tomorrow and the next day. So the State is paying forthat immediately, directly. The Social Security check forthat month comes in a little later. It comes in a monthlater. If I understand what you're saying correctly, whenthe State takes the check which it gets in March forservices rendered in January, it cannot use the -- thatcheck to pay itself back for services it rendered in -- inJanuary. Is that what you're saying?MS. ROSEBOROUGH: Yes, Your Honor. It cannotuse that check to pay itself back for services rendered inMarch or January without complying with the SocialSecurity rules and regulations applicable to the authorityto pay a debt.QUESTION: Why isn't the same thing true of theguardian who's been appointed the -- the designated beneficiary? When a guardian gets money, the -- theguardian reimburses himself for past expenses. Is thatalso the payment of a past debt? MS. ROSEBOROUGH: It absolutely would be thepayment of a debt -- past debt, and it would be subject tothe same restrictions.QUESTION: Why isn't the same thing when youhave an EZ pass if you go through the tolls? One of thekids buys an EZ pass and unfortunately it shows up on hiscredit card a month later. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MS. ROSEBOROUGH: Then the representative payee,having in its possession funds belonging to that child,makes a determination whether or not that is a debt thatshould be paid in the best interest of the child or not.QUESTION: But if they had to put up a deposit,for example, the State couldn't pay for the EZ pass. MS. ROSEBOROUGH: The State could pay for it ifthey had, in their possession, Social Security benefitsthat made that an appropriate expenditure of the funds.QUESTION: In their possession. And let's skipEZ pass and go back to a parent who has custody of herchild. (Laughter.) QUESTION: A parent has custody of her child. She pays for that child's food, clothing, and shelter in January. She gets the check from Social Security inMarch. So you're telling me that she cannot use thatMarch check to reimburse herself for money that she spentin January.MS. ROSEBOROUGH: Whether or not the parentcould use this child's Social Security benefit check topay herself for having advanced care to the child inJanuary is wholly dependent on whether or not thatreimbursement would be in the best interest of the childat the time the benefits are received. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Ms. Gregoire and the Government misunderstandthe regulations. They cite to --QUESTION: No. I just would like to know if --if -- as I see it, the State agency is identicallysituated with the parent. They're both providing food,clothing, and shelter now, and they will get the Federalcheck for that food, clothing, and shelter months later,at least a month later. And if you're saying that then it-- they both -- the parent, the social agency -- they aredebtors -- creditors. They're both creditors because theyprovided the service already?MS. ROSEBOROUGH: If they -- if they are usingthe -- the obligation under the Social Security laws isnot to use the month's benefits --QUESTION: So the mother gets the check. MS. ROSEBOROUGH: -- in the -- for the month forwhich they are paid. QUESTION: The mother gets the check in March.MS. ROSEBOROUGH: Then she must --QUESTION: And she cannot use that for servicesthat she has or food, clothing and shelter she has boughtfor the child in January.MS. ROSEBOROUGH: She has to make adetermination in March at the time she receives thebenefits as to what expenditure of benefits is in the best th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC interest of the child. Let's say in the interim betweenthe use of the funds in January to -- to pay for whateveritems were paid for in January, the child has sufferedsome event in February or March that requires theexpenditure of those benefits or the child needs acommunication device or a prothesis --QUESTION: Or that -- or that she wants thechild to go to university. Why -- why would it not alwaysbe in the best of the interest of the child not to payback his parents and put it into a -- a trust account forfuture education? It would always be in the -- in thebetter interest of the child than paying off the past debtto the parent. MS. ROSEBOROUGH: And that's why the SocialSecurity regulations impose stringent guidelines on representative payees that want to use benefits to payback for things that happened in the past.QUESTION: No, but your theory, it seems to me,is there's a choice here, when you apply the best interesttest, between a child with a full stomach and no trustfund and a child with a full stomach and a trust fund. And you're saying the trust fund always wins. The parentcannot pay back because it's always in the child's bestinterest to have the trust fund as well as the fullstomach. Isn't that what you're saying? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MS. ROSEBOROUGH: Not necessarily. In fact, theSocial Security regulations point out that in the case ofa -- of a family unit, that is dependent on the SocialSecurity benefits of the children in that unit, that they-- those benefits can be used to promote the stability ofthe family. And it may be -- well be --QUESTION: I don't know -- I'm not quite surehow stability works into this, but let's -- let's forgetthe exceptional case for the moment. Save for thatexceptional case, aren't you saying full stomach plustrust fund always wins under the best interest test?MS. ROSEBOROUGH: If the child has a fullstomach and if the --QUESTION: Right. That's the -- that's thehypothesis: stomach is full, will be full, trust fund or not. Best interest says, put the money in the trust fund. Isn't that your position? MS. ROSEBOROUGH: Absolutely true.QUESTION: Does it bother you that the Social --QUESTION: How would you square that --QUESTION: Go ahead. QUESTION: -- know how you square that positionwith a statute that seems aimed at giving children thismoney so they can pay for room and board and meet theirbasic subsistence. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MS. ROSEBOROUGH: The question is when do youapply the test of current maintenance and using thebenefits at the time they are received to provide directlyfor the care of the child which is the obligation underthe Social Security regulations, and when are theregulations with respect to the payment of past debtsinvoked. Now, Ms. Gregoire argues -- excuse me -- GeneralGregoire argues that it's not invoked for months, andshe is relying on the provisions of the code related tocertain lump sum benefits that provide additionalprotection to those benefits. Solicitor Millett says thesame thing relying on section (d). But they aremistaken that -- one illustration of their mistake isfound in the Social Security Administration's audit of Contra County, California, where the OIG found that thatcounty was using Social Security benefits to reimburseitself for care provided before the benefits were actuallyreceived --QUESTION: You've lost me a long time agobecause I have a sort of basic question. It seems to meif a mother or somebody in the family who is the recipientof this extra money coming in from the SSI can use it, hasthe right to use it to pay a bill that the child ran upfor some food or from shelter or, for that matter, EZ pass th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC or tuition -- and I -- I gather they have at least theright to do that if they want to pay those bills.MS. ROSEBOROUGH: Not if they want to. Theyhave the right --QUESTION: They think it's the right thing todo, and so they -- yes, they think it's --MS. ROSEBOROUGH: They think it's in the bestinterest of the child. QUESTION: Well, all right. Let's -- let'simagine that doing what you think is right for the childis in the child's best interest. And therefore you do theright thing which is to pay the bills for food, shelter,tuition, and whatever that the child ran up. Now,assuming that that's okay, why can't the State do exactlythe same thing? MS. ROSEBOROUGH: The State can do exactly thesame thing as long as it applies the same test. As longas it looks at whether or not the use of the benefits toreimburse the debt is the --QUESTION: Okay. Now I got your point. MS. ROSEBOROUGH: -- that is the best interestof the child. QUESTION: Your point is neither the one nor theother can pay -- has the right under the statute or underthe -- to pay these past debts for food, for example. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC And now my question would be they're the agency. They know what Congress had in mind. A naive readingwould say Congress had in mind pay these bills for foodand shelter, but they know it. They're the experts. Theyknow their own regs, and they come in and tell you yourreading of this is totally wrong. Of course, Congresswanted guardians, whether they're States or not States, topay bills for food and shelter for this child who has noparents. All right. Now, they say, of course, theywanted that. There's nothing in the statute that saysclearly to the contrary. So they win. Now, what's yourresponse? MS. ROSEBOROUGH: One, the Social SecurityAdministration has consistently, prior to its pleadings inthis case at least, made the exact same demarcation that we are arguing here. The Social Security Administrationhas said that once a benefit payment is received, you lookbackwards at every debt that occurred prior to that dateand judge whether or not that debt can be paid on thebasis of whether or not the current and foreseeable needsof the beneficiary have been met and whether or not it'sin the best interest of the beneficiary to pay that debt. As to going forward --QUESTION: Well, doesn't -- doesn't the statutebasically leave it to the commissioner to -- to evaluate th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC whether a representative payee is acting in the bestinterest of the child? MS. ROSEBOROUGH: It does ask the --QUESTION: And we have a representative of thatcommissioner here before us today saying that under thestatutory and regulatory scheme, that payments such asthese for foster care are in the best interests of thechild. Why should we strain to find otherwise --MS. ROSEBOROUGH: Because the --QUESTION: -- and -- and upset what's going onall across the country? I think your position istroubling for that reason. MS. ROSEBOROUGH: If I may first respond thatfactually it's not true that this is what's going onthroughout the country. The facts of the various cases that we know about, through cases that have occurred inthe various States, illustrate that they take verydifferent or use very different procedures with respect tothe funds. And we only know of Washington that has aprocess that compels the State administrator to ignoretheir obligation to evaluate the best interests of thechild at the time the benefit is received and instead makea determination that all of the benefits should be used topay past debts to reimburse public assistance that wasexpended without regard to the eligibility of the child th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC for Social Security benefits. QUESTION: Well, the representative can be --the representative can be removed if the representative ismisappropriating funds or misusing the representative'sposition at responsibility. But that has nothing to dowith -- with the legal process provisions of .MS. ROSEBOROUGH: It has to do with that in thissense. The State argues that section (a) doesn't applyto it because it is acting properly as a representativepayee. We contend -- and I think we demonstrate in ourbrief, and the State supreme court in fact held -- thatWashington was not acting as a properly regulatedrepresentative payee within the meaning of section (j).QUESTION: But that we're -- we're told by theGovernment is none of the State court's business. I askedthat question expressly to find out whether in theGovernment's view is something that any State courtcould enforce, and the answer was no. is for -- if --if you think the representative payee is not actingproperly, you go complain to the Social SecurityAdministration, and it's entirely a Federal law, not anyState court that interferes with the representativepayee's control.MS. ROSEBOROUGH: I -- I believe that herresponse was that you could bring a State law action, for th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC example, for conversion against the representative payeethat failed to administer benefits in accordance with theSocial Security Act. Those Social Security regulationsthemselves provide that you cannot sue the administrationfor a representative payee's failure to use the benefitsproperly, but that you may be able to sue therepresentative payee themselves.QUESTION: But -- but your answer to my question talked about . I don't -- I don't understandthat.MS. ROSEBOROUGH: (a) clearly prevents aState from using legal process like the administrativeregulations here to collect for past expenditures.QUESTION: Okay. Why -- why is this -- why isthis legal process?MS. ROSEBOROUGH: It's legal process --QUESTION: Why is it -- why is it something thatany representative payee, whether they're a State entityor not, could not do?MS. ROSEBOROUGH: Because Washington is notmaking an evaluation that the payment of the debt toitself is in the best interest of the child. What it isdoing is acting pursuant to the compulsion of a regulatoryscheme that requires that the first use of the benefits beto reimburse itself. The Social Security regulations do th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC not state that the use of the benefits to pay currentmaintenance --QUESTION: But that's an odd term of the uselegal process, unless you're saying any set-off is legalprocess.MS. ROSEBOROUGH: A set-off --QUESTION: Suppose a private entity just setsoff an earlier debt against current funds. That's --that's not legal process in the ordinary sense of theterm. It's a set-off.MS. ROSEBOROUGH: That would be depending onwhether they were doing so by operational law or becauseof their own volition. Here the State is clearly actingunder what it contended below at least was the volition orthe -- the obligation of law. It was saying that the law gave it the right to secure or require the use of theseSocial Security benefits to pay a specific obligation,that specific obligation being the debt to the State thatarose when the State advanced funds for the child's care.QUESTION: Well, you're saying that anytime thelaw provides for action or provides that action will belawful, that taking that action involves resort to legalprocess. Is that your definition?MS. ROSEBOROUGH: I'm saying that anytime thelaw allows or permits the securing of Social Security th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC benefits to the payment of a specific obligation, thatthat is legal process or the application of legal processto those benefits in violation of section (a).QUESTION: But the reasonable word in there Ithink is securing. All the State is doing is taking fromthis account and putting into that account. And -- and Ithink all the State is doing is saying, under the law,we're able to do that. The law says we can do that, or atleast it doesn't say we can't. And I think you're sayingthat whenever the State claims legal authority, it isusing legal process within this statute. Is -- is that --isn't that your position?MS. ROSEBOROUGH: No. My position is that --QUESTION: Then I still haven't gotten it.MS. ROSEBOROUGH: -- that when the State here acts to transfer the benefits from the trust fund to theState treasury coffers, it does so by presenting a bill,in essence, a statement of account or a statement ofexpenditures, to the trust fund unit reflecting the pastexpenditures of the State on behalf of that child. Essentially it's saying, I have advanced monies for thecare of this child and I now want to be paid back out ofthe child's trust fund unit. Fair enough. But theobligation of the State, wearing its hat as representativepayee of the child, is to make a determination at that th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC point whether that repayment would be in the best interestof the child. QUESTION: Yes, but you have to go -- go on andsay what that -- why that's legal process. If thegrandmother does it, you would also have to say it islegal process under your view because it's authorized bythe common law, I suppose, of the State or maybe by astatutory law. Suppose you have a statute that says acreditor can set off against an earlier debt money thatthe creditor receives. That's not legal process in any --in any usual sense of the term. MS. ROSEBOROUGH: Absolutely it would be, thelatter thing that you said, that if a State allowed -- ifa State statute allowed a set-off against a SocialSecurity benefit to pay a past debt, that would be a violation of section (a). In fact, Federal lawprovides that even if the United States itself seeks toset off a debt like past due taxes against Social Securitybenefits, that it has to have a specifically set out inthe statutes exception to section (a), and that in factis what exists. There's a statute that says by expressreference to section (a) as required by section (b)that the United States may set off past due taxes againstSocial Security benefits. Absent that statutory authorization or exception th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC to section (a), a set-off compelled by law orauthorized by law would be within the ambit of legalprocess or an application of legal process to benefitsprohibited by section (a).QUESTION: Would -- would you say the same thingif the State were simply funding the -- the cost of foodand clothing for the current month and on -- on Wednesdayit -- it paid a bill for groceries and on Thursday itpresented this document that allowed the transfer from thetrust fund to the -- to the State's account? That toowould be legal process?MS. ROSEBOROUGH: That -- if it was doing so --QUESTION: So the only way the State could do itthen, I take it on your theory, is to use the money to payin advance of its own expenditure a -- a fund from which it then could draw under its separate hat to pay thegroceries. MS. ROSEBOROUGH: The presentation of thegrocery bill to the representative payee for payment may-- and -- and the payment that comes as a result of that,may not -- may or may not be legal process depending onwhat it is that authorizes that transaction and whether ornot --QUESTION: Well, it -- it paid the grocery billon Wednesday, and Thursday it says, we're going to th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC transfer the money to pay the grocery bill. That'sprocess on -- on your theory, isn't it? MS. ROSEBOROUGH: No, not necessarily. QUESTION: What's the difference betweenWednesday and Thursday and February and March?MS. ROSEBOROUGH: Under my theory, it's clearlya reimbursement. And as a reimbursement, it then fallsunder the regulations with respect to reimbursements.QUESTION: Why isn't it a reimbursement betweenFebruary and March?MS. ROSEBOROUGH: It is absolutely areimbursement. That's exactly what we claim. QUESTION: Then -- then if -- if there's legalprocess for the February/March transfer, there's legalprocess for the Wednesday/Thursday transfer. MS. ROSEBOROUGH: It's the Wednesday/Thursdayprocess in the hands of a private representative payee notacting under compulsion of law. QUESTION: I'm -- I'm talking about the State.MS. ROSEBOROUGH: There's two --QUESTION: I'm talking about what we've gothere. MS. ROSEBOROUGH: Acting --QUESTION: It's legal process when -- when we --when we buy the groceries Wednesday and we make the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC transfer Thursday. Right? MS. ROSEBOROUGH: Then -- but the State ofWashington is doing that because it is compelled bystatutes and regulations that mandate that it shall usethose benefits to reimburse the foster care costs. If itwas not operating -- if it was making a choice --QUESTION: That's true --MS. ROSEBOROUGH: -- on Thursday --QUESTION: That's true in either instance, isn'tit? MS. ROSEBOROUGH: Not --QUESTION: I mean, that's -- that's a wash, asbetween February and March and Wednesday and Thursday.MS. ROSEBOROUGH: That is a wash. QUESTION: Okay. MS. ROSEBOROUGH: So the question is in bothinstances on Thursday or a month later, is the use ofthese benefits to pay for that which has been provided inthe past in the best interest of the child. QUESTION: Okay. Then it's --MS. ROSEBOROUGH: That --QUESTION: -- then it's -- that's why I -- Itried to lead to the conclusion -- let me try it again --that the only way on your analysis to avoid theimplication of legal process would be to set aside funds th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC received from the Social Security Administration inadvance for payment for future groceries. Is thatcorrect?MS. ROSEBOROUGH: That would be the only way toavoid a reimbursement scenario, would be to use the SocialSecurity benefits first to pay for those things that thechild needs. That would -- that would avoid theregulations respecting past debts and reimbursement.QUESTION: So you would have no case if you takethe Social Security check that you receive in February forJanuary to cover the January period instead of reimbursingthe State for what it supplied in January. It takes thatcheck and puts in the account and says, now, this willcover the March food, clothing, and shelter. That wouldbe all right, and you wouldn't have any --MS. ROSEBOROUGH: And that appears to be whatmany States do. For example, it appears from the brief --QUESTION: Even though the check was supposed tobe for January and not for April.MS. ROSEBOROUGH: The check is -- theeligibility of the check, if it's an SSA check, isdetermined by the child survivorship through January. Sothat's why it's paid at the end of January. A disabilitycheck, however, is paid at the beginning of the month forwhich it is intended to be used. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: So what all this -- so what all thislitigation will have achieved is just to compel the Statesto use the current checks that they get for next monthinstead of for last month. You -- you get maybe a -month ride. I mean, I guess they -- they lose months'worth. But so long as they re-gear up their system sothey're paying for next month, all of this will go away. MS. ROSEBOROUGH: They will avoid violation --avoid encroaching or violating section (a) --QUESTION: Does that make a lot of sense?MS. ROSEBOROUGH: It does make a lot of sensebecause the problems in Washington's administration withaccounts, we think, with double dipping, with use of thebenefits to pay administrative and programmatic costsinstead of to pay for items, food, clothing, shelter, and special needs of the child, could not occur in a systemwhere the Federal benefits were used in the first instanceto pay for those things.Moreover, in Washington --QUESTION: But why -- why --MS. ROSEBOROUGH: -- the average payment to adisabled child is less than the guaranteed minimum underFederal law so that this child would at least be assuredof the use of the full amount of the Federal benefit towhich they are entitled without set-off by the State. The th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC State could add to it but it cannot, as Washington does,subtract from it. QUESTION: Instead of --QUESTION: Is it not true that -- that in theoverwhelming number of cases, the Federal benefit is notnearly enough to cover the care of the child, that the --the average SSI payment doesn't make it to cover themonthly needs? MS. ROSEBOROUGH: Nor does the payment that theState makes under its foster care program. In the -- inthe case -- in the specific case of the State ofWashington, the guaranteed minimum payment under FederalSocial Security law to an SSI-eligible child averages $a month. The State of Washington pays the -- a stipend tothe household of that child of some $ to $ a month depending on the age of the child. That means --QUESTION: But now if we -- if we had the newsystem now where you take the January check and you payfor March or April with it, then the other things thatyou're complaining about, the double dipping, what youallege -- and they may say, no, it's not happening -- theproper forum to determine that would be the SocialSecurity Administration. Wouldn't it be? MS. ROSEBOROUGH: In this case, the claim wasbrought under State law against the State of Washington th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC for using the benefits in a way that was inconsistent withSocial Security law. The State of Washington offeredas -- by way of defense, that it was complying withsection (j) and that section (a) did not apply toit. But the State law claims for conversion and misuse ofthe benefits remain and are not dependent on -- they'redependent on establishing, as we have, that the State wasmisusing the benefits, but they're not dependent on theavailability of a direct remedy under the Social Securityrules. Moreover, section --QUESTION: There's one -- one question that I'dlike you to ask because it's really troubling me more thananything else here. We have a brief from the Children'sDefense Fund that says most of these children don't have a Wanda Pierce. They have no one but the State. They haveno one to make out an application to Social SecurityAdministration. Were not the State agency operating theway it is operating, there simply would be no benefits, noSocial Security, no -- no SSI. There would be that muchless available for the care of all these children in thesystem. MS. ROSEBOROUGH: This is exactly true that whatthe State of Washington is doing is using the Federalfunds that are intended for the individual benefit of th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC disabled children and children who are SSA recipients tofund the general foster care system. QUESTION: I asked you to answer that question. Is -- what the Children's Defense Fund is saying is thatbecause Washington is doing what it is doing -- and it isdoing it because it's going to get -- it's going to getthe Federal Government to pay, as these benefits weredesigned to pay, for the food, clothing, and shelter ofthe child -- that there would be no one to do this andthere would be less money in the entire system. Andthat's the question I asked you to answer, not anotherquestion. MS. ROSEBOROUGH: We believe that States willcontinue to serve as representative payees even if they'recompelled to administer the benefits in a way that is consistent with the Social Security rules.QUESTION: What's the basis for that belief?MS. ROSEBOROUGH: The basis for that belief isthat the State receives enormous benefit from havingavailable to itself the Federal benefits and being able toexpend those benefits in the best interest of the childand to pay for those things that come within the definedneeds of the disabled children. It has no reason to giveup that money. And we don't ask it to. What we do ask itto do is to administer those funds properly under the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Social Security Act and to make a determination, before ituses those funds to fill the State treasury, whether ornot or what use of the funds would be in the best interestof the child. That's exactly what the Social SecurityAdministration has consistently required of representativepayees. In this case where a State had -- where a childhas already received public assistance, which is in partState and in part federally funded, for a State to useanother Federal benefit that the child receives toreimburse the expenditures not only of the State dollarsbut also of the Federal dollars that were provided to theState under that program for the use of the child is anabuse of the representative payee system. It is a -- andis a disservice to the disabled child. Social Security disability benefits wereintended to provide for the special needs of the disabledchild, to assist them in the transition to adulthood, andto provide them some relief from the burdens of theirdisability. In the State's concept, as it would use thosefunds, without any heed to the best interests of thechild, no dollar of Social Security benefits received by adisabled child before they reach their th birthday wouldbe available to meet those special needs because the Stateof Washington refuses to acknowledge an obligation under th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC the Social Security laws to determine what expenditure isor is not in the best interest of the child. (d) does not provide that a -- any paymentof a benefit is current maintenance if -- as long as itwas for food, clothing, or shelter. It makes a cleardemarcation between -- and the example in the regulationmakes clear -- between benefits that are used at the timethey are received to provide for care and benefits thatare sought to be used for care that was provided beforethat. We simply ask that the Court apply the generallyapplicable Social Security benefit regulations to theState of Washington's use of the funds for reimbursement.If there are no further questions. QUESTION: Thank you, Ms. Roseborough.General Gregoire, you have minutes. REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF CHRISTINE O. GREGOIREON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERSMS. GREGOIRE: Where is the legal process inthis case? There is in fact none. The only thing that'sbeing suggested is reimbursement is the legal process. Inthe case of Title II benefits, an individual is eligiblein January. Social Security doesn't pay until February. That has to be construed as reimbursement. Counsel'sinterpretation would then turn the entire program on itsear. The fact of the matter is that is not legal process. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC It's what --QUESTION: Your definition of legal process is aprocess that requires judicial involvement?MS. GREGOIRE: Judicial, quasi-judicial. If anindividual has the authority by law and -- who goes outand -- and actually implements something that takes thebenefits, but it's more than reimbursement as we have --QUESTION: Well, that's what your adversary has-- has stated, that this is pursuant to authority of thelaw. That's why it's legal process.MS. GREGOIRE: We would submit, Justice Kennedy,if you look at Bennett and Philpott, what this Court foundin both those cases was legal process was actual in theone case in implementation of a lawsuit; in the othercase, the actual attachment. We have nothing of that nature here. We have asimple -- in answer to your question about is the Stateasking for special rights, to the contrary. The State issimply asking not to be disadvantaged, to be treated nodifferent than any other representative payee which wasyour holding in Philpott. So the fact of the matter ishere we're simply asking to do that which any parent woulddo in fulfilling his or her responsibilities in caring fora child. Let me also, if I can, turn to the -- the Social th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Security reimbursement idea of -- of using it in the bestinterests of the child. What counsel has suggested is theonly thing that's in the best interests of the child isextras. The State of Washington pays thousands of dollarsfor these children because they come with psychiatrickinds of needs. We are not paying the minimum. We are,in fact, paying significant amounts of money.In the case of one of our randomly selectedchildren, Nacole Blimka, in one month, over $,. In the case of another randomly selected child,Denita Smith, in one month, over $,. And yes, we heldthe benefits, got no reimbursement whatsoever, to helpDenita Smith be reunited with her parent so that herparent could set up a home, pay for the food and theclothing and shelter that was necessary for that child. The fact of the matter is the State ofWashington does exercise discretion which is accorded it,broad discretion in the best interests of the child. Shewould simply ask you only extras are in the best interest. We would submit supplying food, clothing, shelter isalways in the best interests of the child and that is whatSocial Security suggests. She indicates that her complaint suggests thatthere is some State law claims. To the contrary. Thecomplaint all the way along has suggested a violation. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC She further suggests that R.C.W. .., thestatute in question here, is mandatory. To the contrary,it is not. It allows the State discretion to use SocialSecurity benefits for the special needs of a child and toreimburse the State which is precisely what occurs in thisparticular instance. I ask you to return to the question presented. Is there a violation of (a) in this case because a dulydesignated representative payee, supervised by the SocialSecurity Administration, is using the monies for thecurrent maintenance of the child. The plain reading of(a) to that question is no.With that, we would ask you, respectfully, toreverse the decision of the Washington State SupremeCourt. Thank you. JUSTICE STEVENS: Thank you, General Gregoire.The case is submitted.(Whereupon, at : p.m., the case in theabove-entitled matter was submitted.) th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC 