 IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XUNITED STATES, Petitioner ::v. : No. -FIOR D'ITALIA, INC. :- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XWashington, D.C.Monday, April , The above-entitled matter came on for oralargument before the Supreme Court of the United States at: a.m.APPEARANCES:EILEEN J. O'CONNOR, ESQ., Assistant Attorney General,Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on behalf ofthe Petitioner.TRACY J. POWER, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf of theRespondent. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC C O N T E N T SORAL ARGUMENT OF EILEEN J. O'CONNOR, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioner ORAL ARGUMENT OFTRACY J. POWER, ESQ. On behalf of the Respondent REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OFEILEEN J. O'CONNOR, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioner PAGE th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC P R O C E E D I N G S(: a.m.)CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: We'll hear argumentfirst this morning in Number -, United States v. FiorD'Italia. Ms. O'Connor..ORAL ARGUMENT OF EILEEN J. O'CONNORON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERMS. O'CONNOR: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court:This case is about the authority of theCommissioner of Internal Revenue to assess FICA taxes thatCongress has imposed on employers. It also involves thewell-established principle of tax litigation. It involvestwo key sections of the Internal Revenue Code and how theyrelate to each other, and it involves the evidentiaryvalue of assessment in tax litigation.The first of the key sections is section . It appears at page a of the appendix to our petition. It authorizes and requires the Secretary of the Treasuryto make inquiries, determinations, and assessments of alltaxes imposed by the Internal Revenue Code. The secondkey section is . It appears at page a of theappendix to our petition. This section imposes a tax onemployers. The tax is measured by the wages they pay orare deemed to have paid their employees. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: Which section is this, Ms. O'Connor? I'm --MS. O'CONNOR: Section at page a of ourappendix to the petition.QUESTION: Thank you.MS. O'CONNOR: This is the tax that imposes --this is the provision that imposes a tax on the wagesemployers pay or are deemed to have paid their employees.The question this case presents is how thecommissioner carries out his obligation under toassess the tax that is imposed by section . The taxis --QUESTION: Ms. O'Connor, let me tell you whattroubles me a little about the Government's position inthe case, and I hope you will address this. How can anemployer ever challenge effectively an assessment madeunder the position that you approach, because the normalburden of proof in a tax refund case normally requires theemployer to show exactly how much money was owed, and Idon't see how that would work in this context.MS. O'CONNOR: Exactly, Your Honor. TheCongress has recognized the difficulty that employers havein this regard, and that is the reason there are severalof the other sections that we will discussing thismorning. Section , for example, is mentioned in your th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC materials. That is a provision that permits employers ontheir own, if they discover an error, to correct it laterand have no interest assessed. That's a very unusualprovision, and it relates specifically to the complexityof employment taxes and their administration.QUESTION: Well, would that error ever beanything more than a disparity between what the employeereported and what the employer reported?MS. O'CONNOR: Would what, Your Honor?QUESTION: How -- I mean, the error that thatsection -- I'm wondering what the error is that thatsection contemplates, and I can see it's application,let's say, if the employer simply added up the employee'sreports wrong and got the wrong figure. Under what othercircumstances would it apply short of the moment at whichthe Government makes the assessment which is in questionhere?MS. O'CONNOR: It could also apply just -- and is not specific to restaurants or food or beverageestablishments or tips at all, because another commonerror that employers can sometimes make ismischaracterizing a worker as an independent contractor,for example, and upon determining later that the person isactually an employee and they should be withholdingFICA -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: Well, let me ask the question inanother way. How would it -- how could it apply in thissituation? In other words, as I understand it -- I mean,this is -- I didn't mean to side-track you from JusticeO'Connor's question, but I'll raise the thing that bothersme. As I understand it, what the employer is obligated toreport is the sum total of all the reports that theemployees give to the employer of tip income.MS. O'CONNOR: That's right, Your Honor.QUESTION: And I'll assume for the sake of thequestion that a given employer has done that.MS. O'CONNOR: Mm-hmm.QUESTION: I also assume that if you arecorrect, that employer has this possibility hanging overit that the IRS is going to make this kind of anassessment.MS. O'CONNOR: That --QUESTION: Is there any -- my question is, isthere any way that the employer can anticipate this kindof an assessment in order at least to avoid the interestrunning under this section?MS. O'CONNOR: Absolutely. There are manydifferent ways, Your Honor, and this case provides a verygood example. Employees are required to report on amonthly basis to employers. You can see from the forms th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , which are at pages and of the joint appendix,those are the forms that this restaurant filed for and .QUESTION: And they were all correct, I take it.MS. O'CONNOR: Right, those forms wereabsolutely correct. You will also note at the top of the page itsays that it is an information report, because this isinformation that Congress has required food and beverageestablishments to provide to the Internal Revenue Serviceexactly for a purpose such as this.Now, the annual -- the information report atpages and is an annual report that the food andbeverage establishment provides to the Internal RevenueService, but employees provide reports to employers atleast monthly. You will see on the forms that percent of the sales of this restaurant were paid for bycredit card, so every single month this restaurant couldhave compared the tips that employees were reporting withthe tips that they saw were being charged on credit cards,and as any business owner would do when faced with aliability that could occur down the road, you're going toset up a reserve for it.You know you have got your annual insurancepremium due next January. You start setting aside for it. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: He may set up -- the employer may setup a reserve, but as I understand it the employer is notobligated, in effect, to withhold upon himself, is notobligated to pay the tax on it until the assessment comes,because under the IRS' instructions the employer pays thetax on the amounts reported to the employer even if heknows they're wrong.MS. O'CONNOR: That's exactly right, and that'sanother indication of the fact that Congress realized thatthis was going to be a difficult provision for employersto enact.QUESTION: Well, what would he do --MS. O'CONNOR: --QUESTION: What would he do to anticipate it? Would he say, I'm paying you another $,, I don'thappen to owe you that in tax now, I paid what the lawrequires me to pay, and you haven't assessed anythingelse, but here's another $,? I mean, is that whatyou're anticipating?MS. O'CONNOR: Absolutely not, Your Honor. Infact, it is the rare taxpayer who seeks to pay his taxbefore it's called for.(Laughter.)QUESTION: All right, then how does the taxpayertake advantage of the provision that allows him to make a th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC correction and avoid the interest in this case?MS. O'CONNOR: Well, one of the things that issomewhat troublesome about some of the briefs in front ofyou from the other side is that the other side is lookingat this as though it was a penalty, and it's not apenalty, it's merely a tax. In fact, there specificallyare no penalties. Let me point out --QUESTION: I will assume -- no, I will assumeit's no penalty. I just want to know how it works in thissituation. He doesn't owe any tax --MS. O'CONNOR: Right.QUESTION: -- based on what he has to report toyou.MS. O'CONNOR: Right.QUESTION: You haven't assessed anything yet. How can he possibly take advantage of the provision thatallows him to make a correction, to pay in accordance withthat correction, and to avoid any interest that he wouldotherwise be liable for? How can he take advantage of it?MS. O'CONNOR: Well, let me point out a coupleof things from your question, Justice Souter. First, letme direct you to (q). Provisions of the InternalRevenue Code provide a couple of things. They providewhat is tax, how is the tax measured, when is itmeasured -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: Where is (q)?MS. O'CONNOR: (q) is in our joint appendixhere -- oh, no, no, it's in the petition. Thank you. (q) is at (a). Thank you very much.QUESTION: General O'Connor, it might help ifyou answered specifically whether interest does run on theperiod between the employer paying what the employee'sreports call for and the assessment at a higher amount.MS. O'CONNOR: Thank you, Justice Ginsburg. No,there is no interest that runs, and that's why I wantedyou to look at (q) in particular.QUESTION: Then how does this section have anapplication here? You say, well, this mitigates it,and --MS. O'CONNOR: No, I'm sorry --QUESTION: -- it seems to me that about all theemployer can do is pay immediately at the moment of yourassessment and therefore no interest will run.MS. O'CONNOR: No, I did not mean to suggestthat applied to this assessment, and in fact itdoesn't. applies when the employer himself discoversan error and corrects it at the next availableopportunity.QUESTION: So it wouldn't apply in thesecircumstances. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MS. O'CONNOR: It doesn't need to, because under(q) -- it's a very interesting provision. provides definitions, that's all. It resides in thesubchapter of the Internal Revenue Code that provides forthese employment taxes, and (q) is the definitionalprovision that says that tips are wages. It also tellsyou when the tips are wages.For the purposes of the employer FICA (q)tells you that the wages are deemed to have been paid whenthe employee reports them or if the employer -- employeedoesn't report them, they are wages deemed to be paid whenthe IRS issues notice of demand, so until the IRS notifiesthe restaurant that there is an additional FICA tax due,there is no interest or penalty.QUESTION: Right, but at that point there is,and if you would come back to Justice O'Connor's question,which was, how could the employer ever know that there wasa mistake in the assessment, and you said, well, as soonas he knows it, he can come forward with the additionalamount and there won't be any penalty, but how does heknow it? That's the problem.MS. O'CONNOR: He knows it because the employeesare reporting on a monthly basis, and in this case therewas clearly -- we have $, of unreported credit cardtips in each of the years involved here, $, in th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC unreported credit card tips. Those reports were coming inevery month. The restaurant has clear notice --QUESTION: But your assessment is for more thanthat. Your assessment assumed a certain unreported amountof cash tips as well. Now, how is the reporter -- how isthe employer going to know whether that's erroneous ornot?MS. O'CONNOR: The same method that he would useto make any other determination. For example, he knows bythe basis of the report that all credit card tips are notbeing reported.QUESTION: But the burden is on him. The burdenis on him to show what the proper amount was. I mean, IRScomes up with a guess based on, well, we assume that thesame amount weren't reported for cash tips as weren'treported for credit card tips, pay up.Now, how is he going to prove that there was adifferent amount for --MS. O'CONNOR: You're exactly right, JusticeScalia, the burden is on the taxpayer, and in this casethe taxpayer conceded the entire amount of the judgment. Page of the joint appendix --QUESTION: But the burden is on the taxpayer togive information as to which the taxpayer is not in thebest position to know, and -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MS. O'CONNOR: That's true, Justice Kennedy.QUESTION: -- Justice O'Connor's originalquestion was, how is the employer supposed to know, andyou say, well, if he doesn't know he can amend later.The whole question is, and the gravamen of theargument put forth by the taxpayer here is that theassessment should be on the person, or on the entity thathas the information, and here your information is as goodas the employer's, and you have the ability to do what theemployer can't, i.e., subpoena the individual records ofthe employees.MS. O'CONNOR: Actually, not all of that istrue, Justice Kennedy. The employer, if there were adispute between the employer and the employee the employercertainly could subpoena records of the employee in amatter such as that, and respondent, as you say, does --QUESTION: How does he do that, sue theemployee?MS. O'CONNOR: Oh, if -- yes, if there were adispute between the two over any matter the employercertainly could.QUESTION: You're talking about a tax court or adistrict court, or --MS. O'CONNOR: No, just as a generalproposition. Just as a general proposition. In this th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC case --QUESTION: Well, as a general proposition Idon't think the employer can subpoena the employee. Imean, you have to have a legal proceeding, don't you?MS. O'CONNOR: Oh, exactly. That's what I mean,Your Honor. If there were some other legal proceeding --QUESTION: Well, but I mean, that's not going towork. You're suggesting that he ought to fire theemployee and then be subjected to a wrongful dischargesuit and then subpoena the information so that he can giveit to you. Why don't you just ask for it?MS. O'CONNOR: Well, actually, there is noevidence in the record on whether the individual employeeswere audited or not. I saw that in the Ninth Circuitopinion, TRAC is asserted on that point.QUESTION: But the point is, you have thecapacity to do it and the employee doesn't.MS. O'CONNOR: That's true, Justice Kennedy. The amount of assessment, though, I think it's veryimportant to focus on the fact that in this case, as youcan see at page of the joint appendix, the taxpayerhere conceded the reasonableness of the assessment,conceded it.QUESTION: Then that's just luck, because Ithought Justice O'Connor's original question was, look, we th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC can all do this, it's so simple. You multiply .percent times the gross receipts of every restaurant inthe country, all right. Now, I thought her question was,what is the restaurant owner supposed to do to show thatthat's inaccurate, what can he do, and so far my ownconclusion listening to you is, he can write the check.MS. O'CONNOR: I'm sorry, I didn't mean to --QUESTION: Now, is there anything else -- isthere anything else that this restaurant owner has it inhis power to do, other than write the check, and not sometheoretical thing. What I'm interested in is thepracticality of it.MS. O'CONNOR: Absolutely, Your Honor --QUESTION: What is that?MS. O'CONNOR: -- and I don't mean to beavoiding the question. Let me point to another line onthe form, . You'll notice there is a line that refersto percent, and then there's a blank and it says, orlower percentage. The reason for that is that if arestaurant employees are reporting tips that are less than percent of gross sales, that could raise a red flag thatmaybe the restaurant worker --QUESTION: It's not about percent. Everybodyknows all these minimums. This is about people who areearning more than the $ in tips per year. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MS. O'CONNOR: Right, per month.QUESTION: It is about people -- per month, orwhatever.MS. O'CONNOR: Right.QUESTION: It is about people who satisfy allthese other minimums. It is not about people -- they caneven get a tax credit for this.MS. O'CONNOR: Right.QUESTION: I'll save that question.MS. O'CONNOR: Right.QUESTION: I'm interested in the answer toJustice O'Connor's question in what I'd call the mind run,mainstream, basic, typical situation, and that is, what isthat answer? So far I'm concluding he can do nothing.MS. O'CONNOR: No.QUESTION: Tell me the answer.MS. O'CONNOR: What the restaurant can do isshow evidence that would tend to determine, or helpdetermine the amount of the tip, how many -- what kind ofa restaurant you have, how upscale it is, where it'slocated, the kind of meals you serve -- in fact, the IRShas a procedure where restaurants can show all thatinformation, a sample menu to get below the percent.QUESTION: And then I'm not being clear.MS. O'CONNOR: Right. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: I think in typical cases like thisone, the restaurant will have paid more -- they will haveassumed that it is more than percent. They wrote acheck for -- they assumed it was $,. That's goingto be more than percent of gross receipts.MS. O'CONNOR: Right.QUESTION: All right. Now, we're only talkingabout an area that's well above that, and in respect tothe area well above that. Here it happened to be between$, and about $,. In respect to that extra$,, you come in and say, we're sure that it wasearned in tips, and now here's what you did. Youmultiplied gross receipts by . percent, and yousubtracted the $,, okay. I'm saying anyone can dothat, and I thought Justice O'Connor's question was, youare a restaurant owner. You are faced with this. How doyou show that it isn't so?MS. O'CONNOR: The taxpayer here had theopportunity to do that. One of the things that you --QUESTION: Well, but will you acknowledge atleast that it's virtually impossible for the taxpayer toget that information? I mean, the taxpayer has thereports from the employees, and they're false.MS. O'CONNOR: What --QUESTION: How, as a practical matter, is the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC taxpayer going to establish there's something different? I mean, we know in terms of generalities, we're told thatthere are less tips paid, or bills paid in cash than bycredit card.MS. O'CONNOR: That has been an insertion thatis unproven in the record.QUESTION: So you don't accept that as proof.MS. O'CONNOR: It may or may not be true.QUESTION: So what's the employer going to do,then?MS. O'CONNOR: It may or may not be true.QUESTION: Let me ask you one other thing. There's a so-called TRAC system, right, that Congresspassed to address this very problem. What percentage ofrestaurants have used TRAC? Does the record tell us that?MS. O'CONNOR: No, the record doesn't tell us. I understand from news reports that increasing numbers ofemployers are entering into the tip rate alternativecommitment, and that is an alternative to justifying ortrying to establish -- in this case, though, let me pointout that at any point during the IRS' examination thetaxpayer could have shown, could have produced informationthat would have reduced the number that you see on ExhibitA. They never did that --QUESTION: But where would he get -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MS. O'CONNOR: -- and they didn't do it in thedistrict court, either.QUESTION: Where would the taxpayer get theinformation? The only thing the taxpayer has got are theemployee's returns to the taxpayer and your assessment.Where is the taxpayer going to get the information thatwould allow it to do what you say in theory it could do?MS. O'CONNOR: Well, magically, since itsconcession in the district court, at the appellate leveland again in its briefs before this Court, the respondenthas come up with all sorts of ideas that might challengethe amount of the assessment. Even if the --QUESTION: But there is a stipulation in thiscase -- whatever may be in the next case, there is astipulation in this case that they are not contesting themethod. I have a question that I think Justice Breyer hassaid he was reserving, and that is, I don't understandwhat's in this for the revenue, because of the -- theprovision you haven't mentioned, B gives the restauranta credit against income tax, dollar for dollar, for theFICA tax, and let's assume we have employers, most of themare paying at least the minimum wage, what gain is thereto the revenue whichever way this comes out?MS. O'CONNOR: We don't know whether thetaxpayer here was paying the minimum wage, because none of th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC that was in the record, because the assessment amount wasconceded. The B credit, as you point out, is availableonly for tips that are not used by the employer to satisfyhis minimum wage obligations, yet it's not a complete washto the Treasury, however, because you still have the FICAtax being paid in and an income tax credit being given, soit's the trust fund accounting that would have a problemif you look at it as a complete offset. From theGovernment side it's not a complete offset at all.Let me emphasize that the concession in thiscase --QUESTION: Excuse me, I didn't understand that.MS. O'CONNOR: Yes.QUESTION: Go over that again. What trust fund?MS. O'CONNOR: The social security trust fund,so to speak.QUESTION: So to speak, yes.(Laughter.)MS. O'CONNOR: Well, it is a matter ofGovernment accounting. As a matter of Governmentaccounting.QUESTION: It's a fantasy, isn't it? I mean, itall goes into one pot, doesn't it?MS. O'CONNOR: As a matter of Governmentaccounting, there are funds that are -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: Purely as an accounting matter itmakes a difference, is that it?MS. O'CONNOR: As a Government funding matter. As a Government funding matter.QUESTION: From the point of view of thetaxpayer it makes no difference, I take it?MS. O'CONNOR: From the point of view of thetaxpayer, it will make a difference if they use tips tosatisfy their minimum wage requirement, and on this recordwe don't know.QUESTION: And if they don't, it won't makethat -- a difference.MS. O'CONNOR: It will -- well, no, that's notentirely true, but it's an optional credit. The employercan prove his eligibility for the credit and claim it, orrather than claiming the deduction, they can claim a taxdeduction, which they might prefer to do.QUESTION: What happens if the employer doesn'thave enough, I guess, gross income to offset? Then he hasto be stuck with the difference, right?MS. O'CONNOR: Well, it is a nonrefundablecredit, and that means you can either use the credit as anoffset to your income tax, and what you're suggesting isthey don't have any income tax. That kind of employermight prefer to take it as a deduction, which would create th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC a net operating loss which could carry forward and benefita future year.QUESTION: But the question -- and to overstatethe point -- I'm not buying into this argument at themoment, but I do want to hear your response. From theirbriefs I have the impression that it doesn't make a lot ofdifference to the Government in this case. It would makea lot of difference to the Government in the case ofrestaurants that are losing money, in the case oftaxicabs, hairdressers, newspaper boys, and anyone elsewho is in a business where people receive tips, and inrespect to those kinds of cases it gives the Government aweapon.In this case, it's being used to force them intoa TRAC program that they don't want to enter. In someother case, to have a kind of threat that you could maketo people because, of course, a lot of income isunderreported through tips, and you'd always be able to goout and assess more.Now, you're asking us to interpret some verybroad language as saying Congress has given you authorityto do a particular thing. They're saying, don't give themthat authority. Congress would never have intended theIRS to do what I've just described.Now, I want to be sure you have a clear th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC opportunity to answer that, because I want to hear whatthe answer is.MS. O'CONNOR: Congress had the opportunity tosay that no, the IRS does not have the authority to dowhat has been referred to here as aggregate assessment,and I might just point out here that rather than aggregateassessments, which is what the respondent calls what hashappened here, respondent would prefer the individualaudits and aggregating the estimates, because certainlythey would be estimates if they were done on the basis ofthe individual waiter's reports also.But in , when Congress said that the IRScannot use a threat of an assessment like this to forcerestaurants into a TRAC, it clearly had the opportunity tosay, and besides, you don't have the authority to do theseestimates anyway, these assessments anyway. The authorityis very clear, and the only thing that the respondent hasever argued here is that the amount might be wrong, andthey can't tell you exactly what it is, but there is norule that an assessment has to be entirely accurate orprecise. The assessment authority requires inquiries anddeterminations, and that's what's happened here.QUESTION: The assessment is presumptivelycorrect, isn't it, under the statute?MS. O'CONNOR: Not under the statute, Justice th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Rehnquist, Chief Justice Rehnquist, but rather under thelaws that this Court has observed. In United States v.Janis, this Court commented on the presumed correctness ofassessments and their evidentiary value in tax litigation.QUESTION: Well, you take the position it ispresumed to be correct, don't you?MS. O'CONNOR: It is -- United States v. Janisstands for the proposition that an assessment is validunless it is without any foundation. Clearly, here, whenthe assessment is based on the respondent's own report,and more than three-quarters of the assessment is on theamounts that are clearly known to be true, clearly thisfoundation, this assessment has a foundation. Thereafter,once you've established that the assessment is notinvalid, that it has a foundation at all, then you starttalking about the amount.QUESTION: Well, I wonder --QUESTION: No, please, go ahead.QUESTION: Well, it has a foundation if three-quarters of it is true?MS. O'CONNOR: Pardon me?QUESTION: It has a foundation if three-quartersof it is true?MS. O'CONNOR: Oh, no.QUESTION: Is that what having a foundation th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC means?MS. O'CONNOR: The test under Janis I think ismuch, much lower than that. It's -- an assessment isvalid if it has any foundation at all --QUESTION: So if --MS. O'CONNOR: -- and clearly, this one has afoundation.QUESTION: -- penny on the dollar is accurate,that -- it has a foundation? Is that what it means? Itcouldn't mean that.MS. O'CONNOR: Oh, I think that would be pushingit a little far, Your Honor, and that's not what UnitedStates v. Janis requires.QUESTION: I would think it would mean thatthere's some reason to believe the full amount isaccurate, not that three-quarters of it is accurate.MS. O'CONNOR: That's not what this Court hasheld, particularly United States v. Janis, where in factthe assessment there was based on an estimate of wage-earning practice. By looking at days' worth of wagesthe commission assessed on days worth of wages.QUESTION: Sure, but doesn't the Janis ruleassume that the taxpayer is, in fact, in a position toprove the correct figure if the assessment is wrong?MS. O'CONNOR: Not necessarily, Your Honor, and th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC it is incumbent upon any taxpayer upon whom a tax isimposed to maintain whatever books and records they can.QUESTION: Exactly, and that comes back to thequestion I've asked before. What can this taxpayer do?MS. O'CONNOR: Well, the taxpayer is in abusiness that requires a lot of things. There health,safety, and sanitation regulations. There are also tax-reporting regulations. You hire reliable people, you tellthem what the rules are, you remind them what the rulesare, and you facilitate their compliance, and that's whatthe restaurant here needed to have done, and may even havedone. Since they didn't challenge the assessment oramount of the assessment, I think we can assume that --QUESTION: Well, short of the restaurant'shiring someone to bird dog every single waiter andwaitress to see what, in fact, the tip was, I don't seehow the employer here could collect the information.The gambler, sure, he can write it down in hislittle book, but I don't see where the employer here is ina position to get the figure to write down in a littlebook, short of having a third person follow every --MS. O'CONNOR: The waiter can also write downhis tips in a little book, and there are --QUESTION: Sure, and the whole premise of theproblem is that the waiter is in fact not telling the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC whole truth.MS. O'CONNOR: That is why restaurants --QUESTION: I mean, that's just reallyimpractical.MS. O'CONNOR: -- every employer should hirereliable people who they can trust to follow the rules.(Laughter.)MS. O'CONNOR: I'd like to reserve the balanceof my time for rebuttal.QUESTION: Very well, Ms. O'Connor.Ms. Power, we'll hear from you.ORAL ARGUMENT OF TRACY J. POWERON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTMS. POWER: May it please the Court, Your Honor:Congress did not saddle the employer with a taxwhile depriving him of any way to defend against it. Congress did not require the employer to do what for years it told him it was not required to do. This tax isnot authorized. Because it's not authorized, that affectsthe burden of proof and the presumption of correctness.I'd like to suggest an analogy. If Congress hadpassed a tax on my chickens and the IRS came along andsaid, we're imposing a tax on you, on your neighbor'scows, and I said, but I don't owe a tax on my neighbor'scows, and they in turn said, yes, well, what we did was, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC we figured your neighbor had X number of acres andtherefore the average number of cows per acre is Y, andyou owe the tax on the cows, and I said, well, I'm notgoing to fight that because I don't have any way to knowhow many cows my neighbor had.QUESTION: But can I just ask one question thatreally puzzles me in this case?(Laughter.)QUESTION: I can't follow the cows and all --(Laughter.)MS. POWER: I understand.QUESTION: But you did have records, writtenrecords that showed that the actual amount of tips paid bycredit card and so forth to the people in question herewas substantially larger than you reported. Why shouldn'tthat put you on notice that you owed a little money to theGovernment?MS. POWER: We do not know to what extent, ifany, those credit card tip amounts, or the amount on thecredit card tip slot on a credit card, was in factreceived by an employee, a tip received by an employeethat is wages subject to the act. We do not know what --QUESTION: Well, but after those credit cards goto the restaurant, doesn't the restaurant turn the cashover to the employee? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MS. POWER: The restaurants handle it in avariety of different ways. It could be as simple as anemployee at the end of the night starting to turn over allthe money he's collected during the night, first tosatisfy all the credit card bills, then to satisfy all ofthe dupes for the food that he had with the balanceremaining in his pocket, which he then turns around andkicks out to a whole host of other employees. We do --QUESTION: But don't you know what the practiceis in your own restaurants?MS. POWER: We would know what -- eachindividual restaurant would know what is done in basicpractice in their restaurant, but how much, if any, ofthat credit card amount was retained by any individual, wedo not know.QUESTION: No, but what may -- I understand thewaiter may have split the tips with the busboy and soforth and so on, but the total amount of tip on the creditcard slip was paid to some employee, was it not?MS. POWER: Well, we don't even know whetherit's a tip. There are many reasons why it might not be atip.QUESTION: But this is a particular restaurant. I mean, it 's not as if we're talking about the world ofrestaurants. Surely this particular restaurant knows. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MS. POWER: Would know whether that credit cardamount was, in fact, a tip? No. You could have well hada circumstance --QUESTION: You mean if it's shown on the creditcard --QUESTION: As a tip --QUESTION: -- as a tip -- I seem to recallseeing a space --QUESTION: Yes.QUESTION: -- on restaurant charges --(Laughter.)MS. POWER: That's correct.QUESTION: -- that says, tip, X amount. Youfill it in.MS. POWER: And that's correct, and if I went inand I didn't have any cash in my pocket and I said to thewaiter, you know, I'm going to leave some extra tip onhere, I need to pay for the valet when I leave, I'm goingto put $ extra on here, can you give me the cash -- yes,it's possible that there's tips on there.QUESTION: The question isn't possible. Thequestion is what's normal, and normal tip is tip, and Idon't understand the chickens and the cows exactly --(Laughter.)QUESTION: In my copy of the code here it th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC says -- it doesn't say -- it says the employer, there isimposed on the employer an excise tax equal to . percentof wages, and it says, including tips, so I don't seehow -- what your argument is that the tax isn'tauthorized. Of course it's authorized.MS. POWER: But it's wages of an individualemployee.has to --QUESTION: Yes, that's right, and the employerMS. POWER: It's wages -- and they have, whattheir assessment stands for is a tax on my gross tippayroll. There has been no -- that is not a tax --QUESTION: No, no, but I -- I understand thatbasic point. I'm trying to get you to focus on what Ithink would be, despite the rights and wrongs of it, theirvery strong legal position, which is very simple. Number , that there is assessed here a tax on theemployer equal to . percent of the total, including tipwages of the employee, all right, and they say, we havethe power under the statute to assess the amount, andmoreover, we think your client didn't pay, and thereforewe took what we think was a very reasonable way offiguring that out.We looked at the credit cards and we saw itsaid, tips, and we saw . percent is the typical amount, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC and we assume that's it for credit and for cash, and ifyou don't like that, you prove to the contrary. We don'tthink you can prove it, not because it just isn'tpossible, that probably, in all likelihood, it isn't true,okay. Now, that's their point.Now, you reply to that. I would like to hearyour argument.MS. POWER: My reply to that is, we started outby saying it's wages, including the tips of the employee,and they did not give us a bill for wages which are thetips of the employee. They gave us a bill for the totalgross tips of all employees collectively, and this Courthas already held that FICA taxes are divisible taxes underFlora v. United States, that it is a tax imposed upon theindividual wage earnings. This Court has alreadyinterpreted to be a tax on individual wage earnings,and they did not give us a bill for that tax.QUESTION: Well, but that's a different argumentfrom the one that we've been wrestling with, which iswhether or not you have within your authority and controlan ability to calculate the basis for challenging theassessment.MS. POWER: We do not.QUESTION: And you began by saying, well, theydiffer and, frankly, I don't give much force to that th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC argument. The employer knows how the employer distributescredit card receipts. That's the employer's job, so I'mnot particularly persuaded by that argument. If you wantto go ahead and say, well, the cash portion of the tipsdon't relate to the -- in the same ratio that the creditcard tips, I would understand that.MS. POWER: The employer does not know how thetips, the credit card tips are distributed. It's not asif --QUESTION: Doesn't the employer get the creditcard receipt?MS. POWER: At the end of the --QUESTION: And doesn't the -- the employer canst up any system the employer wants.MS. POWER: At the end of the evening theemployer would cash out all the employees and would turnover credit card tips to employees who might have receivedcredit card receipts, and those employees would thendecide among themselves to whom in what amount they aregoing to share those tips that they have received, alongwith any cash tips that they may have --QUESTION: But the employer at least has anaggregate at that point, some that appears from the creditcards to have been paid out in tips, no matter how it'sshared. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: In addition, he has the ability -- inaddition, he has the ability to tell his employees that hewants to know the ratio in which they're shared. He canmake that a condition of employment, so I'm not persuadedby that argument.MS. POWER: I don't really think he can makethat a condition of employment. I think that employershave to be very careful what happens in the context ofwage and hour laws and tip-pooling regulations and so onand so forth.QUESTION: Well, that seems to me all the morereason why the employer should have a strong interest inknowing how the division is being made.MS. POWER: Well, I think that there are manyemployees who do not want the employer to have anything todo -- to know -- to do with the tip-sharing arrangements. It is -- tips are the property of the employee. Not onlythat, you have --QUESTION: But the employer, Ms. Power, has anobligation to pay FICA tax, and has an obligation to payit on the total earnings, and it isn't -- your cow analogydidn't just pass me by, because the tax on the employer isindependent of the tax on the employee. Suppose theseemployees never paid a cent in FICA tax, and they went offto beach-comb some place, the FICA tax would be owed by th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC the employer just the same.MS. POWER: That's correct.QUESTION: So it's the employer's cow. The FICAtax belongs to the employer.MS. POWER: The -- there is no question that theemployer owes a FICA tax. He owes the FICA tax regardlessof whether the employee is ever audited. He owes the FICAtaxes regardless of whether the employee is ever assessedor the employee ever pays his taxes. It can be assessedagainst the employer at a completely different time fromwhen it can be assessed against the employee.The employer does not dispute that he owes a FICAtax. What the employer disputes is, I can't know what Iowe that FICA tax on until you make some determination ofwhat the individual earnings are, because until that time,I am denied all defenses employees have that they canraise, and there's a whole list of long --QUESTION: But you know what -- in fact, youstipulated that you don't dispute the facts, theestimates, or determinations used by the IRS as a basisfor its calculation of an amount of aggregated unreportedtip income by all directly and indirectly tippedemployees, which is your -- is on page of the jointappendix. You agreed that you are in this case, forpurposes of this case not disputing any of that. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MS. POWER: I do not -- we do not dispute theamount of the IRS' aggregate assessments because -- of allemployees collectively, because we simply do not have theinformation to dispute that. Congress has prohibited usfrom having that information. We do not have thatinformation. We have never had that information. Congress for years has told us we do not have toconcern ourselves with that information, and we do nothave the wherewithal to dispute it.So in this case, do I dispute that? No, becauseit is not worth disputing that or attempting to evenwhittle down that assessment in this case.QUESTION: But your position is, we know thatthere is a disparity between what is reported and what isactually paid in tips. We know that both the employee andthe employer independently owe a tax on that total amount,and we know about the shortfall, but there is nothing theGovernment can do. It's just stuck by what the serversput down on the monthly form that they file.MS. POWER: There's plenty that the Governmentcan do. The Government has the wherewithal to doeverything, and that's exactly what Congress says shouldbe done.QUESTION: Well, the only thing that you'veproposed, and tell me if I'm wrong about this, is that the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Government go one by one after the employees, and am Icorrect in saying that the same method would be used bythe Government if it went against an individual server,that it -- you are resisting the Government using againstthe restaurant. That is, let's take a waiter in thisestablishment. The Government says, you've underreportedyour tip income, and the way we figured out that you'veunderreported it is the same formula. Isn't that whatgoes on when --MS. POWER: No, it's entirely different,because -- and as the McQuatters case that's cited in thebriefs by both parties illustrates, in that circumstance,the individual waiter has an opportunity to bring anydefenses that he has to the Government's assessmentforward, and we are denied every possible defense by thatscenario.QUESTION: Well, take -- make that specific,please. Here is a waiter, and the Government says, youhave unreported income, and this is how we've estimatedit. We've estimated it based on our formula, and thenspecifically what does that employee do when theGovernment says, we've made an estimate based on this percent, or whatever it is?MS. POWER: The employee disputes the estimate. Whether he does it at an administrative level or whether th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC he goes to the tax court and disputes it, he goes in andhe disputes it, and he raises the issues, and I think anumber of them were identified in the waitresses' amicusbrief. For instance, they say, well, I didn't work aslong. I don't have the same experience as the other guyhad. They was stiffing, a tremendous amount of stiffing. We had a European clientele, the tips weren't as great asyou think.QUESTION: What is stiffing?MS. POWER: No tip whatsoever.(Laughter.)MS. POWER: I'm sorry.QUESTION: I just don't understand how any ofthat can get you below the amount that shows up on thecredit cards, because for example, say one employee got$, in tips, and he could have a defense that I passedout $ to the busboys, and maybe his liability is less,but it still seems to me the employer would have to atleast pay the aggregate amount on the credit card.MS. POWER: No, because --QUESTION: I just don't understand how you getaround that.MS. POWER: -- there's a situation where youcould have many employees. There's a very high turnoverrate, especially with those who are in the categories that th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC receive the least amount of tips. Somebody who comes in,and he's a busboy and he's there for the afternoon, and hesays, boy, forget this job, I'm leaving, and he takes thetips that he gets that day, and that happens at a muchhigher percentage --QUESTION: Well, that would explain whyassessments might be wrong as to individual employees, butit still doesn't reduce the gross amount in the tip columnon the credit card.MS. POWER: It does reduce the gross amounts --QUESTION: How?MS. POWER: -- that the employer would have toowe, because if any of that credit card tips that you'reassuming isn't in fact a tip was received by somebody whomade less than $ a month, the employer doesn't owe anytax on that.QUESTION: Okay. That's a possibility, butwouldn't it suffice on any rule of probability if theGovernment did just what Justice Stevens described? It'squite true, yes, there might have been an extraordinaryturnover, if there is, the employer can come in and sayso. But if the Government made its claim simply based onwhat the credit card reports showed, wouldn't theGovernment have made an assessment which enjoyed at leasta probability of accuracy? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MS. POWER: No, because you go back to andCongress did not impose a tax on the aggregate earnings ofall employees collectively.QUESTION: So your argument there is that evenif you had the perfect evidence, even if there was a memobeyond dispute, written by the accountant and signed byall the employers that said, after the most thoroughinvestigation of this restaurant I'm telling youprivately, and you agree, that the total tips earned thatare eligible for social security are $,, so it'ssigned by bishops, you know, absolute, dead right,we're saying that even if that's so, he still doesn't oweit because in the memo it doesn't say which employees.MS. POWER: I think that it needs to say whichemployees learned which amount, and that's what the taxwas imposed upon, and if on the other hand you had all ofthe employees say yes, I earned this, yes, I earned this,yes, I earned this, then you would have that individualdetermination.QUESTION: But there's never been anything held,is there, that where an employer clearly owes a tax to theGovernment, based because of the earnings of the employee,and there can be different contexts where that comes up,the evidence that he owes that has to name or pick outwhich employee? I assume if there were a case that ever th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC said that you would have cited it, and I doubt that thereis.MS. POWER: I don't think that there is.QUESTION: All right. If there isn't, thenthat's my problem. If you're talking about the quality ofthe evidence, you run into the problem that JusticesStevens and Souter mentioned. If you're talking about theneed for the precision identification of a singleemployee, I don't see in the law any requirement for sucha principle.MS. POWER: I think that it's in . I thinkthat this Court has already held that the tax is imposedupon --QUESTION: But whereabouts in ? If it'sjust two sentences, tell us what sentence or what clauseyou --MS. POWER: Well, , it says wages or -- says wages -- I'm sorry, Your Honor.Equal to the following percentage of wages asdefined in section (a), the tax imposed on somethingcalled wages, that is defined in (a). You cannot read(a) as anything but --QUESTION: Where do we find (a) in yourbrief?MS. POWER: It's on the next page, page of th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC the Government's appendix to the petition, and it says,the term wages means all remuneration for employment, andit goes on -- they only have one of the individual termslisted. There are specific --QUESTION: But you're telling us this shows yourpoint, and you -- point to the language that you think itdoes.MS. POWER: imposes a tax on wages --QUESTION: On wages. It doesn't sayindividual -- wages paid to each individual. It sayswages.MS. POWER: It says wages as defined in (a).QUESTION: Then we turn to , and where is itin there that it makes your point?MS. POWER: When you go through each one of the --QUESTION: Well, that's what we're here for, togo through something.MS. POWER: Okay, well, the exceptions to(a) lists individual things like whether an employeeparticipates in a health insurance plan, whether anemployee has a (k) plan, the extent to which anemployee's wages go above or below the social securitywage base.QUESTION: But that goes to the accuracy of the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC figure, perhaps, which you said really is not your point. That -- none of those exceptions say anywhere,collectively or in specific terms, that under youcan't add them all up.MS. POWER: Well, this Court has already heldthat --QUESTION: And that's what we're saying.MS. POWER: -- that's not the way the tax works.This Court has already held in Flora v. United States andas quoted in Steele v. United States that it isn't a taxon the aggregate earnings. It is -- the assessment is anaccumulation of separate, divisible taxes on eachtransaction. What is subject to the tax is eachindividual payment --QUESTION: There are two Flora cases, neither ofwhich are cited in your brief. Which Flora -- there was arehearing grant. Which one are you --MS. POWER: Flora v. United States, and Ibelieve it's footnote in Flora v. United States.QUESTION: Yes, but there are two Flora v.United States that a rehearing was granted, one's ,one's , and your brief doesn't seem to mention eitherof them.MS. POWER: Well, we referenced them in ourcomplaint, Your Honor. I think it's paragraph of our th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC complaint.QUESTION: Does it give a citation there?MS. POWER: Yes, Your Honor. U.S. .QUESTION: But that was just about whether ornot the tax court had jurisdiction if the assessmentwasn't completely paid beforehand, wasn't it?MS. POWER: Yes, but I believe that footnote in that brief, in that opinion said that the Court agreedthat the excise tax, like a FICA tax, is a divisible tax. That's the whole basis upon which we're here. We onlypaid $ of the total tax, and we paid it on the basis ofour estimate, although we cannot prove it one way or theother, of one employee who would have made less than $ amonth over a period of time. If this wasn't a divisibletax, or one that was imposed upon each transaction ofwages, then we would have had to pay the entire $,. This hold that it is a tax on an accumulation of all wagesof all employees is to change that -year history of --QUESTION: Now, Congress passed something calledthe TRAC law in to deal with this very problem oftips and the FICA tax, did it not?MS. POWER: Not technically, Your Honor. TRACis not something that Congress passed. TRAC is somethingthat is an agreement between the industry and the IRS. Itwas -- I was the first person who approached the IRS on th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC coming up with some type of an agreement with the IRS tosolve this problem, and the TRAC agreement was a contractthat was written between --QUESTION: I thought there was a section in passed by Congress, section of the Internal RevenueService Restructuring and Reform Act providing that IRSwould not threaten a taxpayer audit to coerce the taxpayerinto entering a tip-reporting alternative commitmentagreement, so at least Congress acknowledged --MS. POWER: Congress acknowledged --QUESTION: -- the agreement, did it not?MS. POWER: It acknowledged that the agreementexisted, but Congress --QUESTION: Do you think Congress was assumingthere were assessments going on of employers for thisliability?MS. POWER: Not at that time, because there aretwo documents at the very end of the joint appendix thatare Government documents, and they indicate that they werenot doing the employer-only assessments at that time. Infact, they indicate that they were not doing the employer-only assessments at that time. In fact, they indicatethat they -- they assured Congress that they were notdoing assessments at that time.QUESTION: When did the IRS start doing these th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC aggregate assessments? Do you know when they started?MS. POWER: I would say that they started doingthem about , , and you had asked the questionearlier, how many TRAC agreements are there that have beensigned. There are about -to-, TRAC agreements thathave been signed. There are about , --QUESTION: Well, this congressional provisionthat I asked you about was made in , so that was wellafter the beginning of aggregate assessments.MS. POWER: And long after the IRS had announcedthat they were not doing aggregate assessments.QUESTION: The gravamen of your brief is that asa principle an assessment shouldn't be imposed on thetaxpayer unless the taxpayer has the information tocontradict the assessment, which certainly makes a lot ofcommon sense. Is there a provision in the code, orsomething that we've said in the cases that sustains thatoverarching principle?MS. POWER: Well, I think that --QUESTION: Or is it just kind of a due processfairness thing?MS. POWER: Well --QUESTION: Is there a specific principle you canpoint to to show the correctness of that assumption?MS. POWER: Well, I think that there's years th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC of congressional history that clearly shows that Congressdoes not intend for the employer to be put in thisposition, that Congress did not intend for the employer tobe required to police and monitor the reporting ofemployees, and ostensibly that's what the IRS'interpretation does.QUESTION: But you have no specific authority orprecedent for the proposition that an assessment shouldnot be imposed on a taxpayer unless the taxpayer is in agood or perhaps best position to contradict theassessment?MS. POWER: I think that we have plenty ofauthority for the proposition that the assessment in thiscase is unauthorized because it's on the collective wage-earning on --QUESTION: But that wasn't what I asked you. I asked you about the general proposition.MS. POWER: That a tax cannot be imposed upon --QUESTION: An assessment cannot be imposed onthe taxpayer unless the taxpayer has the capacity or theability to contradict it. I mean, that's -- it seems tome that's the principle argument in your brief. It makesa lot of sense, but I want to know if I'm -- if theCourt's writing an opinion for that, what do they cite forthat proposition? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MS. POWER: The best I can tell you --QUESTION: Other than the fact that this issomething everybody should know, but that doesn't usuallywork.(Laughter.)MS. POWER: I think that the burden ofpresumption and the burden of proof that they have putforth is premised upon the understanding that the personwith that burden has the records and is in the bestposition to respond, and that does not characterize thissituation, so those policy considerations behind that arenot existing here.QUESTION: Are there other situations in the taxlaw where the Government knows that income has beenunderreported? Aren't estimates made in many differentcontexts where the taxpayer doesn't keep reliable records,and so the Government has to find some way of measuringwhat the tax should be, so it does an estimate? Isn'tthat common?MS. POWER: In each one of those cases it's --the person responsible for keeping the records is the onetaxed. We have no problem with the IRS attempting todetermine the earnings of the individual employees andcoming back and --QUESTION: Well, you did before, because when I th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC asked you, are they making an estimate in that case, andyou started to say no, because the taxpayer, theindividual servers have all these --MS. POWER: Excuses --QUESTION: Yes.MS. POWER: -- or defenses?QUESTION: Yes. But I thought that theycould -- I thought that was a given, that if they go aftera single waiter, that they can have an estimate.MS. POWER: They can.QUESTION: They do make an estimate.MS. POWER: They can.QUESTION: And the very estimate that you areresisting when it applies to the employer.MS. POWER: Because we are -- we don't have thesame defenses that the waiter and the waitress does. Thewaiter and the waitress can say, you know, all kinds ofthings in response, that no, I didn't earn that, here aremy records, here are my individual records of exactly whatI earned.The IRS sends them a bill based on the sametypes of estimates, takes it one step further and says,okay, well, you worked X number of hours out of the totalnumber of hours in this restaurant, so of this total sharewe think your share is this amount. The waiter or th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC waitress can come in and say no, here's my individualrecord, and this is exactly what I earned, or no, you'rewrong in assuming this, or you're wrong in assuming that,and then a determination can be made of what thatindividual waiter or waitress made, and then turn aroundand give it to us.That's exactly what one of the documents in ourjoint appendix on page , that's exactly what the IRS diddo before they came up with this aggregate assessmentmethod, because that is precisely what Congress envisionedthat the IRS would be doing with the Form data, istaking that information, using that information to makeexaminations of individual employees, and then turningaround --QUESTION: Now, practically can the IRS -- areyou suggesting that they go after the employees, and thenwhen they know the amount based on the extra tax theemployee will have to pay, then say, okay, employer, youpay the same amount, but practically can the IRS -- doesit have the facilities to go audit every waiter and busboyand --MS. POWER: There's no requirement that theyaudit every waiter or busboy. In the first place, thatletter that I just pointed out didn't require any audit atall, and not only that, in the context of what's happening th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC here, they still have an audit problem. They've onlycollected, or are attempting to collect cents out ofevery single dollar. They're leaving three -- cents onthe table here. They come in here and they say thatthey've got this huge, astronomical problem, and we can'tdo anything about it.QUESTION: Well, the reason is, maybe it isn'tcost-effective to go after the individual employees.MS. POWER: Well, I don't think it's very cost-effective to do this one, when the employer is --QUESTION: The employer tax is owedindependently, which is what I started to ask you aboutwhen you gave your cow example. The taxes on an employer,that's a discrete tax. There's a tax on the employee. That's a discrete tax. Why, because the Government isgoing to have a hard time collecting the tax on theemployee, is it disabled from collecting the tax on theemployer?remaining.MS. POWER: Because that's what Congress said --QUESTION: Thank you, Ms. Power.MS. POWER: -- that the IRS should do.QUESTION: Ms. O'Connor, you have minutesREBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF EILEEN J. O'CONNORON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: Ms. O'Connor, at the very outset yousaid that imposed a tax on wages paid or deemed tohave been paid. Is the word deemed in the statute?MS. O'CONNOR: Is the word deemed in thestatute?QUESTION: Yes.MS. O'CONNOR: I believe so. I believe it's in(q), Your Honor, which I keep losing.QUESTION: Well, I'll find it.MS. O'CONNOR: Yes, it's on page a, is where(q) appears, and remember that is a section thatprovides definitions. tells you that wages includetips which are paid or deemed to have been paid, and(q) also tells you the time.As we have said, this is a tax on an aggregateamount. Form in your joint appendix show how theemployer reports the tax, and shows that it is a tax onthe wages paid.QUESTION: Well, except I think the deemingrefers to the time of payment, not to the fact of payment,but I'll look at that.MS. O'CONNOR: I think you're right about that,Your Honor. Nonetheless, they are deemed to be paid atthe time, right. (q) tells you that tips areincluded, and then the deemed part is -- the tips are th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC wages, and the deemed part is when they are deemed to havebeen paid. They're deemed to have been paid by theemployer, and then it goes on and tells you when. It doessay tips are deemed to have been paid by the employer. That's the very first sentence. It's at page a.QUESTION: How long has IRS been making theseassessments, please, Ms. O'Connor?MS. O'CONNOR: I believe, Justice O'Connor, thatit did start around and , and the informationthat the IRS is gathering on the forms demonstratedthe extent of the problem that Congress suspected didexist about substantial underreporting of tip income.QUESTION: In view of all the questions aboutthe proper computation, why has the Government resistednotice and comment rulemaking to come up with a fairformula, because the contention is that the Government'sformula exaggerates the income, exaggerates the tipincome.MS. O'CONNOR: That is certainly the contention,and there have been, however, no facts to show whetherthat's true or not, because in each of the cases, not onlythe Ninth Circuit below, but in each of the three casesthat we cite in our briefs decided by the Seventh,Eleventh, and the Federal Circuits, no evidence was eversubmitted to show that the tips were overstated in any th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC way.QUESTION: But why not -- why not employ thatfair procedure of going through the notice and comment,and then -- I think that's what Judge Kozinski said to do.MS. O'CONNOR: Yes, he did. Judge Kozinski'sopinion entirely excludes section --CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: I think you'veanswered the question. Judge Kozinski did say that, sothe case is submitted.(Whereupon, at : a.m., the case in theabove-entitled matter was submitted.) th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC A ability : : :, : able : about : : : : : : : :,, :, : : :, :, : :,,, : :, : :, amicus : among : amount : : :,,,, : : : : : : : : :, :, : : :, : : :, :,, :, : : : : : above :, : above-entitled : : absolute : absolutely : : : : accept : accordance : accountant : accounting :,,, : accumulation : : accuracy : : accurate : :,, acknowledge : acknowledged :,, acre : acres : act : : actual : actually : : : : add : added : addition :, additional :, address : : administration : administrative : advantage : :, affects : after : : : :, : : : afternoon : again : : against : : :, :, aggregate :, : : : : : :,, : : aggregated : aggregating : agree : agreed : : agreement : :,,,, agreements :, ahead : : allow : allows : : along : : already :, : :, alternative :, : although : always : amend : amounts : : : : analogy : : announced : annual :,, another : : :,, : answer :,, :, answered : : anticipate : : anticipating : anyone : : anything : : : :, : : : : anyway :, anywhere : APPEARANCES : appears :, : : appellate : appendix :, : : : : : : : : : : application : : applied : applies : : apply :, : : approach : approached : April : area :, argued : argument : :,, :, : : : : :, :, : : : : around : : :, : arrangements : aside : asked : :, :, : asking : asserted : assess : : : : assessed : : : : : :,, assessment : : : :, : :,, : :, : :, :, : :,,, : :,,,, :,, :, : : : : : : : :, :, :, : assessments : :, : : : :,,, :,, : Assistant : assume :, :, : : : : : : assumed : :, assuming : : :, assumption : assured : astronomical : attempting : : : Attorney : audit : :,, : audited : : audits : authority : :, :,, : : :, authorized :, :, authorizes : available : : average : avoid : :, avoiding : a.m : : : B back : : : : balance : : base : based : : : : : : : : : : basic : : : basis : : : : : : :, beach-comb : before : : : : : beforehand : began : beginning : behalf :, :,, : : : : : behind : being : : : :, : believe : : : :, : belongs : below : : : : benefit : besides : best : : :, between : : :, : : : : beverage : :, beyond : bill :,, : bills : : bird : bishops : th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC blank : book :,, books : both : : bothers : boy : boys : Breyer : brief : : :, : : : briefs : : : : : bring : broad : burden : :,,, : :,, busboy : : :, busboys : business : : : buying : C C : : calculate : calculation : call : : called : : : calls : came : : : capacity : : card : : :,, : :,,, :,, :, :,,,,, : :,, cards : : : : : careful : carries : carry : case : :,, : : : : :, : :,, : :,,,, : :, :, : : : : :, cases : : : : : :, cash :, : : :, : :,, categories : cent : cents :, certain : certainly :, : : : challenge : : : challenging : change : characterize : charged : charges : check :, : contesting : context : : : contexts : : contract : contractor : contradict : :, contrary : control : copy : correct : : :, : : : :, : : correction :,, correctness : : : corrects : cost : cost-effective : country : couple :, course : : court :, : :, :,, :, : : :, : : :, :, Court's : cow : : : cows :, :,,, : create : credit :, : :,, : : : :, :,,, :,,,, :,, :, : : :,,,,,, :, :,, D D : data : day : days :, dead : deal : decide : decided : deduction :,, deemed : : :, :,,, :, :,,, deeming : defend : defense : : defenses : : :, defined :, : definitional : definitions : : demand : demonstrated : denied : : Department : depriving : described : : chickens : : Chief :, : : Circuit : : Circuits : circumstance : : circumstances : : citation : cite : : cited : : : claim :, : claiming : clause : clear : : : : clearly : : :,, : : : client : clientele : code :, : : : : coerce : collect : : collected : : collecting :, collective : collectively : : : : column : come :, : : : : comes : : : : : : : : coming : : : comment : : commented : commission : commissioner : : commitment : : common : : : compared : complaint : : complete :,, completely : : complexity : compliance : computation : conceded : :, : concern : concession : : concluding : conclusion : condition :, Congress : : : : : :, :, :,, :, : : :, :,,,, : :, : : : congressional : : considerations : contemplates : contention :, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC despite : determination : : : : determinations : : : determine :, : determining : differ : difference :,,,, :, different : : : : : : : : : difficult : difficulty : direct : directly : disabled : discharge : discover : discovers : discrete :, discussing : disparity : : dispute :, :, :,,, : disputes : : :, disputing : : distributed : distributes : district : :, divisible : : :, division : documents :, : dog : doing :,,, :, : dollar :, : : done : : :, : : doubt : down : :,, :, due : : : dupes : during : : D'Italia : : D.C :,, E E : :, each : : : :, : : : : :, earlier : earn : earned : :,,, : : earning : : : earnings :, : : : : : : effect : effective : effectively : EILEEN : :, : : : : : : : : : :,, :,, : : : : : : :, :, : : : :, : employee's : : : : employer :, :, :,,, : :,,, :,, :,, : :,,,,, : : : :,, :, :, : :,,, :,,,,, :, :,,, :,,, :, : : :,, : : :, : : :,,, : :, employers :, :, :, : : : : : : : : employer's : : : employer-only : employment : : :, : enact : end : :, : enjoyed : enough : enter : entering : : entire : : entirely : : : : entity : envisioned : equal :, : erroneous : error :,,,, : especially : ESQ :, :,, establish :, established : establishment : : establishments : : estimate : :, : : :,,, estimated :, estimates :,, : : either : : : Eleventh : eligibility : eligible : emphasize : employ : employee :, :, :, European : even : : : : : : : :,, evening : ever : : : : :,, : : : :,, :,, :, :, :, :, :,, : : :, : : : : :, : : :, every : : : :, : : :, : everybody : : everything : evidence : : :, : employees : : :, :, : evidentiary : : exactly :, : : : : : : : : : :, : exaggerates :, examination : examinations : example : : : : : : except : exceptions : : excise : : excludes : Excuse : Excuses : Exhibit : exist : existed : existing : experience : explain : extent : : : extra : :, : extraordinary : F faced : : facilitate : facilities : fact :, : : : : :, :, : : : : :, : : facts : : fair : : fairness : false : fantasy : far : : : Federal : FICA : : :, : : : :,, :,,,,, :, fight : figure : : : : th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC figured : : figuring : file : filed : fill : find : : : Fior : : fire : first :, : : : : : flag : Flora : :,,,,, focus : : follow : : : following : food : :, : footnote : : force : : : forget : form : : : : forms : :,, : formula :, :, forth : : : : : forward : : : foundation :,,,,,, :,, frankly : from :, :, : : : :, : : : : : : : front : full : fund :,, funding :, funds : further : future : G G : gain : gambler : gathering : gave : : general : : :, : : generalities : gets : Ginsburg : give : : : : : :,, : : given : : : : gives : : go : : : : : : : :,, : :, : goes : : :, :, : going : : : :, : : :, : : :, : : : : good : : : Government : :,,, : : :,, : :,, :,,,,, :,, : : :, : : Government's : : : : grant : granted : gravamen : : great : gross :, :, : : : :, guess : : guy : H hairdressers : hand : handle : hanging : happen : happened : :, happening : happens : : : hard : having : : : health : : hear : : : : : held : : : : :, help : : her : high : higher : : him : : :, :, himself : : hire : : hiring : history : : hold : Honor : : :, : : : :, : : : :, :, hope : host : hour : hours :, huge : I ideas : identification : identified : illustrates : immediately : important : impose : imposed :, : : : : : :, : : :, : : imposes : :, : imposing : impossible : impractical : impression : inaccurate : INC : include : included : including :, : income : : : :,, : : :, : :, : increasing : incumbent : independent : : independently : : indicate :,, indication : indirectly : individual : : :, : : : :, : :, : : :,,, : : :, :,, : industry : information :,, : :, : : : : :, : :,,,, : :, : inquiries : : insertion : instance : instructions : insurance : : intend :, intended : interest : : :, :,, : : interested : : interesting : Internal :,, :, : : : interpret : interpretation : interpreted : invalid : investigation : involved : involves :,, IRS : : :, : : : : :, : : : :, :,, : : : : :,,, : th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC :, issues : : i.e : J J :, :,, : : : Janis :, :,,, January : job : : joint : : : : : : : : Judge :,, judgment : jurisdiction : just : : :, :, : : : : : : : : :, : : : : : Justice : :, : : : : : :,, :, : : : : : : : : Justices : justifying : K keep : : keeping : Kennedy :, : key :,, kicks : kind :, :, : : : kinds : : know : : :, :, : : : : : :,, :,,,, :, : : : :, :,, : : : : : : knowing : known : knows : :, : : : : : Kozinski :, Kozinski's : L language : : larger : later :, : Laughter : : : :, :, : : law : : : : laws : : learned : least : : : : : : :, : leave :, leaving : : legal :, : less : : : : : let : : :,, : :, : letter : let's : : : level : : liability : : : liable : like : : :, :, : : likelihood : line :, list : listed : listening : lists : litigation :, : little : : :,, : located : long : : : : look : : : : looked : looking : : losing : : loss : lot :,, : : : lower : : luck : M made : : : :,, : : : :, magically : mainstream : maintain : make : : : : : : :, :,, :, : : : : makes : :, : : : making : : many : : : : : : : : materials : matter : :, : :, : :,, : : may : :, :,,, : : : :, : maybe : : : McQuatters : meals : mean : :, : : : :,, :, : : : :, : : : : means : :, : measured : :, measuring : memo :, mention : mentioned : : : menu : merely : method : : : : might : : :, :, : : :, mind : minimum :, : : minimums : : minutes : mischaracterizing : mistake : mitigates : Mm-hmm : moment : : : Monday : money : : : : monitor : month : : :, : : monthly : : : : more : : : :,, : : : moreover : morning : : most : : much : : :, : : : multiplied : multiply : N N :, : name : necessarily : need : : : needed : needs : neighbor :, neighbor's :, neither : net : never : : : : : news : newspaper : next : : : : night :, Ninth : : none : : Nonetheless : nonrefundable : normal : :, normally : note : th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC nothing : : notice : : : : : : notifies : number : : :, : : :, numbers : O O : : obligated : :, obligation : :, obligations : observed : occur : off : offset :, :, oh : : : : : okay : : : : : : once : one : :, : : : : : :, : :, : :,, :, : : : one's :, only : : : : : : : : : : : : operating : opinion : : : : opportunity : : :,, : optional : oral : :, : : order : original : : ostensibly : other : : : : :, : : : : : : : : : : :, otherwise : ought : ourselves : out : :, : : : : : : : : :, : : : : : : outset : over : : : : : : : overarching : overstate : overstated : owe : : : : : : :, : owed : : : : owes :,,, :, own : : : : owner : :, : O'Connor : :, :,, :,, :, :, :,,, : : :, :,,, :,,,, :, :, :,,, : :, :,, :,,,, :, :,, :,,, :,, :,,, :,, : :, :,, :,, :, :, :,,, : : :,,,, :,,, : O'Connor's : : : : : : P P : page : :, : : : : : :, : : : pages :, paid : : : : :, : :, : : : : : : : :,, :,,, :, :,, paragraph : Pardon : part : : participates : particular : : :, particularly : : parties : pass : passed : : : :, : pay : : :,, : : : : : :, : : :, paying : : :, payment : :, payroll : pays : : penalties : penalty :,, :, penny : people : :,, :, : : : per : :, : percent : :,,, : :,, :,, : percentage : : : : perfect : perhaps : : period : : permits : person : : : : :, persuaded : : petition :, : : : Petitioner :, :, : : pick : place : : plan :, please : : : : : plenty : : pocket : : point :, : :, : :, : :, : : : : : :,, : : pointed : police : policy : portion : position :, : : : : : : :, : possibility : : possible :, : : possibly : pot : power : : : :,, :, :,, :,, : :, :, :,, :, : :, :, :, : :,, :, :, : :,, :,,, :,, : :,, :,, :, :,, :, :,, : :,,, : :,,, practical : practicality : practically :, practice : :, precedent : precise : precisely : precision : prefer :, : premise : premised : premium : presents : presumed :, presumption : : presumptively : principle : : :,, : privately : probability :, probably : problem : : : : : : : : : :, : procedure : : proceeding :, process : produced : th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC program : prohibited : proof : : : : proper : : property : proposed : proposition :, : : : :,, prove : : : :, : provide :, :, provides : : :, : providing : provision : :, :, : : : : :, Provisions : Purely : purpose : purposes : : pushing : put : : : : : : puzzles : Q quality : quarters : question :,,, :,, :,, :,,,, : :,,, :,,, :,,,, : : :,, :,,,, :,,,, :,,,, :,,,,,,, :,,, : :,,, :,, : :,, :,,, :, : :,,,,, :,, : :,,, :, :,, :,, :,, :,,, :,,,,, :, : : :,, :,, :, : :, : :,, :,, :, :,, : :,,, :,, :,, :,,, :,,,, : :, :,, :,,, : :,,, :,,, :, :, questions : quite : quoted : R R : raise : : : raises : rare : rate : : rather : : : ratio : : respect :, : respond : respondent : : : : : :, : respondent's : response : : responsible : restaurant :,, : : : :,,, :, :, : : :, :,,, : : : : restaurants : : : : : : :,, restaurant's : Restructuring : retained : returns : revenue :,, :, : : :, : right : : :, :, : : : :,,,, :, : : :, : : :, rights : road : rule : : : rulemaking : rules :, : run :, : : running : runs : S s : : : saddle : safety : sake : sales : : same :, : : :, : :, : sample : sanitation : satisfy : : : :, save : saw : : :, saying : :, :, : : : says : : : : :,, : :,, : :, : :, : Scalia : scenario : second : Secretary : section :,, :,,, : : : : : :, : : read : realized : really : : : : reason : : : : : reasonable : reasonableness : reasons : rebuttal : : : recall : receipt : receipts : :, :, receive : : received :, :, : recognized : record : :,, : : : records :, : :, : :, :, red : reduce :, reduced : referenced : referred : refers : : Reform : refund : regard : regardless :, regulations :, : rehearing :, Rehnquist : :, : relate : : relates : reliable : : : remaining : : remember : remind : remuneration : reply :, report :, :,, : : : : : reported :, : :,, : reporter : reporting : : : : : reports : : : : : : : : : : : require : : required : : : : requirement : : : requires : : : : : : reserve : : : reserving : resides : resisted : resisting : : th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC sections :, : security : : : see : : : : : : space : speak :, specific : : : : : : specifically : : : : split : st : stands : : start : : : : started : :, : : starting : States :,, : :, :, : :,,,, statute :, : :, Steele : step : Stevens : : stiffing :,, still : : : : : stipulated : stipulation :, strong : : stuck : : subchapter : subject : : subjected : submitted : :, subpoena :, :, substantial : substantially : subtracted : sue : suffice : suggest : : suggesting : : : suit : sum : Suppose : supposed : : Supreme :, sure : : : :, Surely : suspected : sustains : system : : :,, : : seeing : seeks : seem : : seems : : : : sends : sense : : sentence : : sentences : separate : serve : server : servers : : Service :, : set : :, setting : Seventh : several : share : :, shared : : short : :, shortfall : show : : : :, : : : :, showed : : shown : : shows : : : : side :, : side-track : signed :, :, simple : : : simply : : : since : : single : : : : : situation : : : : : situations : slip : slot : social : : : solve : some : : : :, : : : : : : : : somebody :, someone : something : : : :, : : : sometimes : somewhat : soon : sorry : : : : sorts : Souter : : so-called : : :, :,,,, : :,,,, :,, : :,,, :,,,, : : : :,, :, : :,, :,,,,,,, : :, : :,, :,, :,,, taxed : taxes :, : : :, :, : : taxicabs : taxpayer :, :,,, : : :,, :, :,, :, :, : :,, :, :, :,,, : : technically : tell : : :, : : : : : : telling : : : tells :, :,, : tend : term : terms : : : test : Thank : :,, : their : : :, : : : : : :, : themselves : theoretical : theory : thing : : : : : : : : things :,, : : : : think :, : : :,, : :,, : :,, :, : :,, : : : :, : : : : :, :, third : thorough : though : : : thought : : : : :, threat : : threaten : three : : : three-quarters :, : through : :, : time : :, : :,, : : :,, times : tip : : : : :,, :,, :,,,,,, :, : : : :, :, tipped : tips : :, :,, :,, T T :, table : take : : :, :, : :, takes : : taking : talking : : : : :, tax :,,, :,,,, :, :, :,,, : : : :, :, :,, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC :, :, : : : : :, : : : : :, :,, :,,, :,,, : : :, :,, : : :,, :, tip-pooling : tip-reporting : tip-sharing : told : : : top : total : : : : : : : : :, TRAC : :, : : :,, : :, TRACY : : : transaction : : Treasury : : tremendous : troubles : troublesome : true :, : :, : :,, : : : trust :,, : truth : trying : : turn : : : : : : turning : turnover : : turns : two : : : :, : type : types : typical : : : U unauthorized : under :, : : : : :, : : : : : underreported : :, : underreporting : understand :, : : : : : : : : : :, understanding : United :,, : :, :, : :,,,, unless : : :, unproven : unreported : :, : : until : : :, unusual : upscale : use : :, : used : : : : : using : : usually : U.S : V v : : :, :, : : :,,, valet : valid : : value : : variety : very : : : : : : : : : :,, : : : : : : : : view :, : virtually : W wage :, : : : : : : : : wages : : :,,, :, : :,,, :, :, :, :,,,,,, : : :,, : waiter :,, : : : :, :,,, :,, waiter's : waitress : :, :, waitresses : want : :,, : : : : wanted : wants : : wash : Washington :,, wasn't :,, : way :, : : : : : : : : : ways : : weapon : well : : : :, : : :, : :,, :,, : : :, :,, : : :, :, : : :, : :, : : : : : :, :, :,,,, : : :, :, well-established : went : : : were :,,,, : :, :, : : : :, :, : : weren't :, : we'll : : we're :, : : : : : : : we've : :,, : whatsoever : whereabouts : wherewithal :, whichever : while : whittle : whole : : : : : : withhold : withholding : wonder : wondering : word :, words : work : : : : worked : worker : : works : : world : worth :, : wouldn't : :, wrestling : write :, :,, writing : written : : : wrong :, : : : : : :, wrongful : wrongs : wrote : X X :, : : : Y Y : year : : years : : : : $ $, :, $, :, $, : $ : $, : $ : : : $, :,, $, : $, : : $ : $ : - : : th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC . :, a : : : : : :, : : :,, : :, :, : : : a : : : : : : : : : : : : : . : . : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : , : : :,, (a) : (q) : : : -to-, : : : : : : : : : : : :, : : :, :, : : : : : (a) :,,, : (q) : :,, :, :, :, : : : : : : : : : :, :, -year : (k) : B : : : : a : : : a : (a) : th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC 