 IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - XFORD MOTOR COMPANY and :CITIBANK (South Dakota), N.A., :Petitioners :v. : No. -JOHN B. McCAULEY, ET AL. :- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - XWashington, D.C.Monday, October , The above-entitled matter came on for oralargument before the Supreme Court of the United States at: a.m.APPEARANCES:SETH P. WAXMAN, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf of thePetitioners.STEVE W. BERMAN, ESQ., Seattle, Washington; on behalf ofthe Respondents. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC C O N T E N T SORAL ARGUMENT OF SETH P. WAXMAN, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioners STEVE W. BERMAN, ESQ.On behalf of the Respondents REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OFSETH P. WAXMAN, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioners PAGE th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC P R O C E E D I N G S(: a.m.)CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: We'll hear argumentnext in No. -, the Ford Motor Company and Citibank v.John B. McCauley.Mr. Waxman. The Court would appreciate hearingargument on, I'm sure, not just on the question presentedin the petition for certiorari, but on the question posedin the supplemental briefing about whether there isappellate jurisdiction where a nominally prevailing partyin the district court can -- can appeal, and also aboutwhether the question of -- under (d), if this was anorder of remand, whether the -- the thing was appealableto the Ninth Circuit at all. ORAL ARGUMENT OF SETH P. WAXMANON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERSMR. WAXMAN: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court:Perhaps with that observation, I would -- itwould behoove me to address the quest -- the appellatejurisdiction of this Court first, as much as I would liketo rush into why there clearly is subject matterjurisdiction in this case, regardless of whether theplaintiffs' claims for injunctive relief are viewed asseparate and distinct or common and then divide it. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC So let me first address why I think the NinthCircuit and this Court had appellate jurisdiction, and itis straightforward. That is, there is an appeal in thiscase from the dismissal with prejudice of a consolidatedcomplaint which was filed voluntarily by the plaintiffs inthis case seeking -- as against plaintiffs that aredifferent than any -- than the constituent State courtactions, including different plaintiffs seeking differentcauses of action and seeking a different form of relief,that is, specific performance of the Ford rebate program.And it is very clear, both from the cont -- the--the four corners of the consolidated complaint and froman express representation that my friend, Mr. Berman, madeat the oral argument in the class certification stage,that the consolidated complaint was filed for the purposeof obtaining, in front of Judge Dwyer in the Northern Dis-- the Western District of Washington, a judgment on themerits in the case. That is, it was different than thetreatment, the maximum treatment, that he would have beenpermitted to provide under the multi-district litigationpanel's reference. That is --QUESTION: What's sort of unusual, though, isthat you didn't suffer the dismissal. I mean, yes, adismissal is -- is usually a final -- a final action, andit's usually the person whose suit was dismissed who th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC appeals --MR. WAXMAN: That is --QUESTION: -- not -- not the person whobenefitted by the dismissal and that --MR. WAXMAN: Indeed, and that, Justice Scalia,is the -- is the question I believe, the specificquestion, that the Court directed the parties' attentionto in its request for supplemental briefs. Now, it is clear that a prevailing partynormally cannot appeal, but the operative word that thisCourt has recognized, at least since the ElectricalFittings case, is normally. And this Court and the lowercourts have applied a rather particular test to determinewhen normally doesn't apply, and that is, is the nominallyprevailing party sufficiently aggrieved by a decision inits favor that it retains a, quote, stake in the appeal? And that's -- that test was articulated by this Court inGuaranty Trust v. Roper --QUESTION: Mr. Waxman. MR. WAXMAN: -- and in Forney v. Apfel.QUESTION: Mr. Waxman, a defendant who removes acase and then is remanded is surely aggrieved but,nonetheless, cannot appeal. And the problem I have withan answer that you went by too fast for me is this case isin -- was in the Washington district court for pretrial th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC purposes only under . The transfer from the severaldistrict courts to which these cases were initiallyremoved -- that transfer under the statute was forpretrial purposes only, not for trial. And after thepretrial, under the statute, the cases, unless all theparties consent, would go back to the district courts fromwhence they came. So I don't understand how the Western Districtwhich is dealing with a complaint for pretrial purposesonly -- I mean, the -- the request that a complaint --consolidated complaint be filed was for pretrialprocessing. How do you get from that an action thatdisplaces all of the other actions that had been removedfrom the State court?MR. WAXMAN: Justice Ginsburg, the appealabilityof the dismissal with prejudice of the consolidatedcomplaint does not depend on whether the consolidatedcomplaint, quote, did away with the other actions. Thereason -- we would, of course, readily concede that under(d), if all that had happened was a removal of the sixState court actions, a transfer for pretrial purposes to amulti-district litigation court and a determination bythat court that it lacked subject matter jurisdiction overthe complaints, there would be no appeal because theremand of removed State court actions for lack of subject th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC matter jurisdiction, Congress has decided, is not adetermination that may be reviewed by Federal appellatecourts. But here -- and this, I think, is the salientpoint. Here, the judge did not require the plaintiffs'lawyers in the six cases to file some sort of concordanceor a consolidating document that often is ordered so as tofacilitate pretrial proceedings. What the judge said isif anybody wants to file a consolidated complaint, theymay.The consolidated complaint that was filed inthis case avowedly invoked this Court's -- the Federalcourt's jurisdiction and sought not just pretrialconsolidated proceedings on discovery and motions, theywanted a full trial or a full resolution on the merits. In other words, it's -- it's as if the judge,having had the six cases transferred, said expressly,look, I'm going to deal with all of the pretrial mattersthat are the subject of this transfer order, but if youall like me --QUESTION: Mr. Waxman, may I stop you at thatpoint? Because the pretrial consolidated -- the order --this is -- I'm looking at the appendix, page . It says,by order of the multi-district panel, the cases have beenconsolidated for pretrial purposes only. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Now, you're saying that there is something --something that I don't see in the written orders that saysthey -- no, it's going to be now for trial purposes.MR. WAXMAN: No, no, no. I'm -- I'm notexplaining myself correctly. The -- the order doesn't saythese six removed cases are here for trial purposes, andif it did, it would exceed the court's authority under and this Court's specific holding in Lexecon.On page of the joint appendix, the courtunder a heading say -- entitled consolidated complaintsays, should plaintiffs in all or some of the consolidatedactions decide to file a consolidated complaint, you haveto do so within a certain period of time. Now, that raises the question, since they did itvoluntarily, whether what they were filing was somethingthat, in essence, sort to -- as I said, to be aconcordance, to consolidate in one document all of thevarious parties and all the various claims and all varioustheories so that a court can meaningful and --meaningfully and efficiency -- efficiently manage thepretrial proceedings. QUESTION: But ordinarily you wouldn't go -- goabout it that way. You'd have a memorandum, not aconsolidated complaint.MR. WAXMAN: That -- that's true, Mr. Chief th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Justice, although there are instances where the court --where the transferee court has ordered the filing ofsomething called a consolidated complaint. But here, there are two salient -- at least twosalient differences. One is this complaint has differentparties. It has different causes of action. It seeks adifferent type of relief. And at the motion -- and -- andit seeks quite clearly, based on the conduct of theparties and the representations, this is, in essence,saying thank you very much for having -- having us herefor consolidated proceedings on our underlying state courtactions, but we have decided we like you, Judge Dwyer, andwe want you to try a case, and we're going to file a brandnew Federal action that is docketed in the WesternDistrict. QUESTION: Mr. Waxman, things like that,juris -- basic jurisdictional thing, agreeing -- thiswould be a consent to have a court that has no authorityto adjudicate a case to adjudicate it. Usually such amajor step is done not by inference, not by implication. This is saying, court, even though you have no authorityunder the Federal statutes to proceed without our consent,we are consenting, so go ahead. We're waiving anyquestions of venue or anything else. The fact that this is labeled consolidated th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC complaint is simply what the multi-district statute says. It says that the actions may be transferred forconsolidated pretrial proceedings. So why couldn't thisconsolidated complaint be simply for pretrial proceedings,the only thing that the multi-district panel transferredthe case to Western District of Washington for? MR. WAXMAN: Justice Ginsburg, it certainlycould have been, and if it were ordered by the court, thatis the most that it could have been. But in this case, that's not what it was. Thereare parties, claims, and requests for relief, andparticularly the -- what is really the object of thelitigation, the request for specific performance of theFord rebate program --QUESTION: Mr. Waxman, can I interrupt you witha question? It seems to me you're, in effect, arguingthat the Federal consolidated complaint was kind of abrand new lawsuit, and we forget about everything elsethat happened before. Now, if that were the case and you just had thatcomplaint filed against you and you filed a motion todismiss and you prevailed and they dismissed thecomplaint, it clearly would not be appealable. In orderfor you to find reasons to appeal, you got to go back andsay, well, now we're going to have to face a lot of other th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC lawsuits. MR. WAXMAN: That -- I think your premise -- thepremise of your question, Justice Stevens, with respect,is incorrect, which is if we had asked for a dismissal onsubject matter jurisdiction grounds and prevailed -- thatis, we would have --QUESTION: No. They asked for dismissal onsubject matter jurisdiction. No. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. You're right. You're right. MR. WAXMAN: If we had asked for it, then wewould have gotten all that we could possibly haveexpected. What we asked for -- what happened in this casewas they voluntarily filed it. They asked for trial andjudgment on the merits. The court sua sponte said, Idon't think I have subject matter jurisdiction, and wehave the right to appeal that because we are sufficientlyaggrieved that we have a stake in the case. And the --QUESTION: Why did the district court say it hadno subject matter? Because of the amount in controversy?MR. WAXMAN: Yes, because of the amount incontroversy. It refused to apply -- it followed priorNinth Circuit precedent and refused to apply thedefendants' viewpoint in a class action seekinginjunctive --QUESTION: Or you have a brand new -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: You would not have been aggrieved --if -- if that was the only case pending and so -- and ifit was dismissed, how would you have been aggrieved?MR. WAXMAN: We would have been aggrieved in thesame way -- because what we sought was -- what we wantedwas litigation in a single forum, in a forum which hadalready conducted substantial pretrial proceedings and aFederal forum. We sought judgment in our favor on themerits. What we -- which would have produced a dismissalor a judgment with prejudice. What we received, but didnot ask for, was a result that permits the -- either theseplaintiffs or anybody else in the country to continue thislitigation in State court. And -- and their -- the lowercourts in the cases that we've cited are --QUESTION: Do you -- do you argue that in justan ordinary case if a -- you file -- a defendant files amotion to dismiss both on the grounds of no cause ofaction and so forth and so on and also no jurisdiction,you win on no jurisdiction, you can appeal that? MR. WAXMAN: Well, I think, this Court'sdecision in Forney v. Apfel stands for that proposition. But it would -- this is an easier case because we did notseek to dismiss this for subject matter jurisdictiongrounds. We wanted to be in Federal court. We were theones who removed the underlying State court actions here. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC As it turns out, they decided they wanted to be in Federalcourt too. But there are a long line of cases, and reallyan uninterrupted line of cases, in the lower courts thathave interpreted this Court's jurisprudence in Forney andGuaranty Trust and Electrical Fittings to mean that wherethere is a dismissal on -- of State law claims, not on themerits, but for lack of jurisdiction, defendants areaggrieved in a practical sense. And we've discussed a --QUESTION: Mr. Waxman, I think the problem isthose six State court actions that haven't vanished. Nobody ever dismissed them. And as aggrieved as you are-- and I agree that you're aggrieved -- you could notappeal from the remand. It seems to me these two, thedismissal of the consolidated complaint, the return of theactions from which this consolidation originated, thatthose two are inextricably tied together. And you wouldlike to cut them off and say, Court, just look at theconsolidated complaint. Forgot about those separateactions. Somehow they vanished. MR. WAXMAN: Not -- with respect, JusticeGinsburg, maybe I -- perhaps I'm not understanding you. I-- there's an interesting epistemological question in thiscase whether the underlying State court actions continueto exist or whether they had been, in fact, superseded but th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC the --QUESTION: Let -- let me ask you about onesolution to the epistemological question. Let's assume --let's assume that on the remand the State courts thinkthey are still alive. Are you going to the State courts,let's try them now? Hear us immediately. We want atrial.MR. WAXMAN: You mean --QUESTION: You're not going to do that. Whatyou're going to say is, defer any action here, if you winon this -- on your point here. You're going to say, deferany action so we can try the Federal case.MR. WAXMAN: Well --QUESTION: And -- and that it seems to me,unless I am missing the point of what you are necessarilygoing to do, it follows that -- that the -- that theFederal case is, in fact, simply the alter ego of theState cases, and if you win here, you are functionallydoing nothing but eliminating subsection (d).MR. WAXMAN: I -- with respect, Justice Souter,if -- there are plaintiffs in two of the State cases whoare not even named plaintiffs in the Federal case. Thereare defendants. There is a defendant. QUESTION: Are they within the class?MR. WAXMAN: Well, the -- all of the cases seek th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC a nationwide class. QUESTION: Sure, and don't you think those non-named plaintiffs would be happy to let somebody else carrythe ball for them in -- in the Federal action?MR. WAXMAN: Well --QUESTION: They're -- they're not going to fightyou when you say to the State courts, just let them sithere until we get the Federal case taken care of.MR. WAXMAN: There are -- I'll go to door numbertwo. There are claims. There are causes of action in theunderlying State cases that are not included in theconsolidated complaint and vice versa. In short, the --the -- from a case management perspective, whether both aFederal case and a State case that are both in existencecan go forward simultaneously or whether one should followthe other is something that happens all the time, and ithas never been understood to divest one court or the otherof jurisdiction. And our submission here is that we havesomething that is distinctly new. It was --QUESTION: The consolidated complaint?MR. WAXMAN: Yes.QUESTION: No, but I mean, you -- but our pointis if functionally you are going to treat this as the alt-- the equivalent, the alternative to all of these Stateactions -- and you have told me nothing to suggest that th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC you're not going to do that -- then it seems to me thatthe -- the -- the argument has got to prevail thatfunctionally this in -- in fact is nothing but an end runaround the non-appealability of the remand.MR. WAXMAN: Well, in point of fact, JusticeSouter, if this Court reverses the Ninth Circuit for the-- for -- for one of the two errors of law that itcommitted, and on remand, the conclusion is made thatthere is subject matter jurisdiction and the case canproceed, we will be in precisely the same posture that wewere in at the time that the plaintiffs filed theconsolidated complaint.QUESTION: No, because at that time the --the -- the State cases had been remanded.MR. WAXMAN: And -- well, the State cases havenot yet been remanded, but if the State --QUESTION: I -- I mean -- I'm sorry. They hadbeen -- they had been removed. I misspoke.MR. WAXMAN: They had been removed. QUESTION: They had been removed. MR. WAXMAN: And they will remain removed ifthis -- if a Federal court concludes that there is subjectmatter jurisdiction. QUESTION: I thought that the order of theWestern District of Washington was that the State cases th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC are remanded. QUESTION: That's what I thought. QUESTION: And that the Ninth Circuit did nottouch that, that the Ninth Circuit dealt only with theconsolidated complaint.MR. WAXMAN: There is a single order in the casethat says there is no jurisdiction. And it's in the -- inthe joint appendix. There is no subject matterjurisdiction over the consolidated complaint or over thesix removed actions. And therefore, the consolidatedcomplaint is dismissed, and the clerk is directed toremand the underlying State actions back to the States. Now, that order was stayed by the Ninth Circuit at ourrequest pending the outcome of this case. That is, if --QUESTION: Well, but stayed by the Ninth Circuitprior to argument there?MR. WAXMAN: No. After -- yes, it was stayedprior to argument there and --QUESTION: Well, didn't that stay expire withthe decision of the court of appeals?MR. WAXMAN: It would have except that we movedfor a stay of the mandate. The mandate issued before thecourt ruled on it, and the court then recalled the mandateand directed that the remand of the underlying Stateactions not proceed until this Court -- at least until th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC this Court -- has resolved the question. Butultimately --QUESTION: But I still think -- I still thinkyou're in trouble because even if we accept your -- yourreading of what the -- the court ordered and what it'slikely to do if you prevail here, it simply changes thecharacterization of what's going on. You're -- you'resaying that the -- that if the -- if the consolidated casestays in the Federal court, it does not die, and in fact,because of that, there is no remand. Then it simplyfollows that the consolidated course is a trump to theremand and you're excluding the operation of subsection(d) in a slightly different way. MR. WAXMAN: Not true, Justice Souter, for tworeasons. I'll give the broader one first. If we had filed as all parties in the case andthe Solicitor General as well agree is the completefunctional equivalent of the consolidated complaint -- ifFord and Citi had filed a declaratory judgment action inFederal court, even after the State cases had been filed,before or after they had been removed, and we asked for adeclaration that we can terminate the Ford rebate program,there would be no question that --QUESTION: Mr. Waxman, give me an example of anycase in which a defendant in a product liability suit, in th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC a credit suit like this one, a defendant has said I wantto preempt the class action and so I am going to bringthis declaratory suit against all the credit card holdersof this plan all over America in the forum that I choose,and that's going to be where the class action is going toproceed. Can you give me any precedent for a defendantbeing able to take over what would have ordinarily beenthe plaintiff's product liability claim, credit cardclaim? I -- I don't know of any such case where adefendant has been allowed to make such a case its showrather than the plaintiff's show. MR. WAXMAN: I -- as I'm standing here, JusticeGinsburg, I -- I can't bring any cases to mind. I'll --I'll -- I'll -- I'll try and bring one to mind prior to myrebuttal. But I don't understand what the objection wouldbe if, before terminating the program, we said, we'regoing to terminate this program --QUESTION: Because you have --MR. WAXMAN: -- and we want a declarationthat --QUESTION: Because, Mr. Waxman, you havepotential plaintiffs from all over the country. Normallya lawsuit is begun by a plaintiff and the plaintiff'schoice of forum is respected. Here you are saying a th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC defendant, not dealing with one plaintiff, but dealingwith hundreds, maybe thousands -- I don't know how manycredit card holders there are -- across the country canstart the lawsuit and a Federal court would listen tothat, would, at the defendant's urging, somehow certifythe plaintiff class. I don't know of any such action. Idon't know of any district judge who has done that at theurging of a defendant. MR. WAXMAN: Well, Justice Ginsburg, if we wereto have filed such a case -- and my submission is it wouldbe the functional equivalent of a consolidated complaint-- it would not disempower plaintiffs or plaintiffs'representatives from filing their own class actions inState or Federal court. And if that were the case, therewould then -- there would be -- thereafter be adetermination made by the courts involved --QUESTION: Well, in any case you said it --MR. WAXMAN: -- as to whether it makes sense --QUESTION: It doesn't occur to you that there issuch a case, but --MR. WAXMAN: I am -- I am sure that there aremany such cases. I can't cite you one as I'm standinghere.QUESTION: Where defendant starts the action asa declaratory action and a class gets certified on the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC plaintiff's side. MR. WAXMAN: That's correct. I -- I know thatour brief and the red brief and the Solicitor's Generalbrief all address this scenario, but I can't bring to mindthe cases. But just to get back to Justice Souter'squestion again, let me give you the ex -- in terms ofwhether, if we proceed here, a State case could go forwardand -- and would go forward, If you take, for example,the Alabama case where there's no Alabama plaintiff here,they have not only not sought specific performance, theyhave disavowed any specific performance and broughtseparate claims on different theories. Since they haven'tsought specific performance, there is no subject matterjurisdiction over the claim because we are -- and thisCourt basing subject matter jurisdiction on the cost ofproviding that performance -- the Alabama case can andpresumably will go forward. QUESTION: Will it go forward without yourobjection? Are you representing that -- that you willwalk into the Alabama court and say, sure, we're ready togo ahead? MR. WAXMAN: Under this -- yes. Under thisCourt's -- under the Court's current jurisprudence, yes,we would. The only -- it would only be if this Court were th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC to resolve the question it left open in Free v. AbbottLabs that we would then have some argument, or that theCourt determined that punitive damages could beaccumulated. But since they aren't asking for a specificperformance -- and neither, by the way, are I think fourother of the six cases. Since they're not asking for aspecific performance, we don't have an argument under thisCourt's existing case law for keeping the cases there. And they could --QUESTION: How many -- how many -- I'm sorry,but how many other cases like the Alabama case are there? In other words, you -- you say, okay, we'll litigate inAlabama. Any others? MR. WAXMAN: I -- I don't know that I have the-- all of the details of the underlying cases in mind. But if they are simply a claim for damages and punitivedamages in which the amount in controversy is not $,,and they aren't asking for specific performance, I don'tthink, consistent with the law of this case, we would haveany basis for objecting to them going forward. QUESTION: They all ask for compensation. Thereare none of them that ask just for specific performance,and -- and even in this consolidated complaint, the firstthing that they ask for is compensatory damages.MR. WAXMAN: Well, it's -- it is clear, Justice th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Ginsburg -- and if it isn't clear from the complaint, itis utterly clear from the -- from the plaintiffs' redbrief in this case at page that what they -- the objectof this litigation is reinstatement of the national Fordcredit rebate program under which they can earn creditstoward the purchase of a Ford vehicle. They -- they're -- they don't -- none of theseplaintiffs have a liquidated claim for damages becausethey're not asking that they be paid rebates that theyearned and weren't paid. Those were credited to them. They are all asking for reinstatement of a program, whichdoesn't exist, that will allow them to earn credits, basedon purchases, toward the purchase of a vehicle. And on the -- on the question of subject matterjurisdiction, the court below made two errors of law. First, it held incorrectly that class actions joiningseparate and distinct claims for injunctive relief cannotbe viewed from the defendants' -- cannot be valued fromthe defendants' viewpoint. And secondly, it erred inconcluding that the plaintiffs' interest in specificperformance cannot be viewed as common and undivided. And if the Court has no questions at this time,I'd like to reserve the balance of my time and perhapsaddress the merits on rebuttal. QUESTION: Very well, Mr. Waxman. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Mr. Berman, we'll hear from you.ORAL ARGUMENT OF STEVE W. BERMANON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTSMR. BERMAN: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court:I will turn to the question that's taken thebalance of the argument so far and that is whether thisCourt has jurisdiction. And I do so with the samereluctance that Mr. Waxman did because the underlyingquestion is an important question that has troubled courtsdealing with class actions for some time now.But despite the fact that I'd like the Court toanswer that question, I don't think there was jurisdictionon appeal or -- or before this Court because it's quiteclear that no matter how you artfully look at this, thisis a simple situation that's subject to (c) and (d)which this Court has said commands -- and that's in theGrauded case -- unmistakably commands that where there isa remand, based on the lack of subject matterjurisdiction, that that's not reviewable.QUESTION: I -- it was your clients, Mr. Berman,who filed the consolidated complaint in the WesternDistrict, I take it. MR. BERMAN: That's correct, Your Honor. QUESTION: And who was it that moved to dismiss th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC that complaint? MR. BERMAN: No one moved to dismiss thatcomplaint. The court, after consideration of classcertification, wrestling with -- I think with the laws ofthe various different States that were invoked by thatmotion, said to us, I'm issuing an order to show cause whyI shouldn't, on my own motion, dismiss this case for lackof jurisdiction. QUESTION: And did he -- on the subject matterground that there's not -- not $, in controversy?MR. BERMAN: That's correct, Mr. Chief Justice.QUESTION: Thank you. MR. BERMAN: And then we briefed that issue andthe judge dismissed the case in response to the briefingon the order to show cause.QUESTION: And that was before there was anycertification. You didn't get up to any certification ofany class, did you? MR. BERMAN: Justice Ginsburg, that was -- theanswer is yes. It was before. We were in the midst ofthe class certification hearings. We had two or threehearings. No class had been certified, and I think, as Isaid earlier, that in the process of wrestling with thevarious State laws, the district court scratched his headand said, why is this case before me? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: Now, as I understand Mr. Waxman'sposition, it is that the consolidated complaint is a newFederal action. To be sure, the effect of the districtcourt's order being appealed here and being reversed mayaffect -- may control the remand of the cases that werebeing held. But this action must be looked at on its ownas a Federal action. True, one of the proximate causes ofour retaining the action by saying that there isjurisdiction may defer the remand of those other cases. True, that looks like something of an end around the noappealability for remand, which is the express command ofthe Congress. But we have here a separate case and wehave to look just at that separate case.Number one, am I understanding his argumentcorrectly? And number two, what is your response? MR. BERMAN: I think you are understanding hisargument correctly, but I submit that he's incorrect. It's not a new case. As one of the Justices pointed out,there's no authority under the MDL rules for us to justsay this is a whole new case. QUESTION: Well, who filed the -- theconsolidated complaint? Your -- presumably you did.MR. BERMAN: I did, Your Honor, and if you readJudge --QUESTION: And it had different parties and th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC different complaints than -- than the separate Stateactions. MR. BERMAN: That's correct. QUESTION: Why did you file that consolidatedcomplaint in that fashion? It was before the districtcourt as part of a pretrial situation in a multi-courtjurisdiction problem. MR. BERMAN: It is not uncommon in MDL practicefor pretrial purposes to try to organize the pleadings forthe district judge in a consolidated complaint. In fact,I -- I can't think of any MDL case I handle --QUESTION: But didn't it do more than justorganize the pleadings? Didn't it change parties andcauses of action and look like a whole new ball of wax?MR. BERMAN: Well, there were somerepresentative changes because after all the lawyersacross the country got together for the first time,because we were thrown together, some of those lawyerssaid, if you're going to move for class certification of anationwide class in one of these State court cases, maybemy representative doesn't need to be there because there'sfive other representatives. So for consolidation purposesand for organizational purposes, we streamline and we tryto be as organized as we can. That doesn't mean we'veabandoned the cases underlying below. We -- we did not. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: It's not a question of abandonment. It's a question of which one takes precedence. There'snow a Federal case which Mr. Waxman's argument is takesprecedent. We just hold everything else until this one isdone. MR. BERMAN: Well, there's a Federal case forpretrial purposes, and the judge, Judge Dwyer of the lowercourt, found he had no jurisdiction anymore over that casewhich is proceeding in Federal court. But it's adiversity case asserting State law claims. So it's not,quote, a Federal case. It's been removed, and once acourt determines that there's no jurisdiction, it's nolonger a Federal case. QUESTION: Mr. Berman, Mr. Waxman points outthat you have submitted an entire complaint. It doesn'tlook like a pretrial-only complaint. It's a -- it's acomplete complaint that has a prayer for relief. So itlooks like a different action. And he said by filing sucha complaint, you in effect waived any objection to the --to the multi-district forum going on to dispose of thewhole case, not just pretrial.MR. BERMAN: Well, to answer that, JusticeGinsburg, the pretrial order that Mr. Waxman cited to andI think that you cited to as well said that theconsolidated complaint was to be filed for pretrial th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC purposes only. There was no waiver in the record that wefiled. The judge didn't order that we submit such awaiver. And I don't know that I have the authority as alawyer to alter the MDL rules. The MDL rules don'tprovide that I can decide on my own that the case willproceed for all purposes forever in front of Judge Dwyer.And -- and yes, the complaint --QUESTION: Where does it say that? For pretrialpurposes only. MR. BERMAN: It's in the --QUESTION: I mean, the judge says on page ,should plaintiffs in all or some actions decide to file aconsolidated complaint, that complaint shall be filedwithin days. And then the complaint itself doesn't sayit's for pretrial purposes only.MR. BERMAN: No, it does not, Your Honor, andthe judge didn't mandate that we do it. He said, shouldyou. QUESTION: But in Lexecon, we said that thejudge who -- to whom it was referred for pretrial --couldn't try the case unless both parties consented,didn't we? MR. BERMAN: Yes, you did. And there's --there's nothing in this record other than the complaint. If you read from the complaint consent, that's the only th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC thing in the record that you could draw that we consentedto Judge Dwyer trying this case for all purposes.QUESTION: Could -- could you come back to myquestion? Where -- you -- you say that the complaint wasonly filed for pretrial purposes. On -- on what do youbase that?MR. BERMAN: I base that on my understanding ofMDL practice. I mean, we didn't say we're filing this fortrial purposes. We didn't say we're filing it forpretrial purposes. QUESTION: You filed a complaint. I mean, youfile a complaint --MR. BERMAN: In MDL practice, I submit, JusticeScalia, that you do file a complaint of some form thatbrings all these plaintiffs from all over the countrytogether. I can't think of an -- an MDL case, whether itBrand Name Prescription Drugs or the various cases thatare pending involving the pharmaceutical industry, forexample, where a consolidated complaint of -- of removedState court cases is not put together in some fashion.QUESTION: That's true, but does it normally --is it normally just look like an ord -- your complaintlooks like an ordinary complaint. It names four people. It says we're bringing a case. It's diversityjurisdiction. It's quite clear, I think, there's venue. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC And -- and that's it. It looks like a normal complaint.So is it ordinary MDL practice that what happenswhen you transfer things for pretrial proceedings, thelawyers get together and file what to the naked eye looksexactly like a normal complaint, as if they marched intoFederal court on day one and filed a complaint? Is thatnormal MDL practice?MR. BERMAN: I think it is very typical --QUESTION: How do I verify that? MR. BERMAN: I could submit my supplementalrecord --QUESTION: No, no. Not your -- I mean, is theresome -- I guess I could look it up in a book on MDLpractice. Now, on MDL practice, when you finish, as I readthe rules, it says the transferee judge can reach ajudgment. But if he doesn't get to a judgment thatfinishes the case, he's supposed to send it back to thetransferor districts, not the State court, but back toseveral transferor districts. Is that what happened here?MR. BERMAN: It never got there because --QUESTION: Why? MR. BERMAN: -- that -- the order of remand,both by the district judge and the Ninth Circuit, wasstayed. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: No, but was the order of remand the-- an order to send it back not to the States but to theFederal transferor districts? MR. BERMAN: Actually I think the language ofthe order is that the cases are remanded back to the Statecourts.QUESTION: To the State courts.MR. BERMAN: Yes.QUESTION: That must be wrong, mustn't it?MR. BERMAN: That's correct. QUESTION: It should go to the transferordistricts.MR. BERMAN: That's correct. QUESTION: And there also -- it saysspecifically and that is pursuant to the MDL order, whichwe can review, can we not? MR. BERMAN: Yes, you can. QUESTION: Okay. So we would have the power inthis case to review what should have been the NinthCircuit's order remanding the case to the transferordistricts, even though they said it wrong. MR. BERMAN: If you -- if you took jurisdictionunder that scenario --QUESTION: Yes. MR. BERMAN: -- in all due respect, you would be th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC violating both the spirit and the intent --QUESTION: Not at all. After all --MR. BERMAN: -- of . QUESTION: Not at all. Not at all. If, afterall, an order of the MDL panel were to have an underlyingtheory that there wasn't jurisdiction in some court orother under , I don't see why we couldn't by writ, asprovided, review it. And our reason for doing it would beto solve an important and serious problem of jurisdictionthat is plaguing the lower courts. In other words --QUESTION: Mr. Berman, you don't want us toreview an order that never existed, do you? MR. BERMAN: I'm not sure --QUESTION: You wouldn't want us to -- to reviewan order that should have issued but didn't issue. Howcould we review an order that never issued? QUESTION: No, it did issue. MR. BERMAN: There was -- there was an erroneousorder of the district court. And -- and I submit that --QUESTION: I think we can review -- the -- theerroneous order is nonreviewable. MR. BERMAN: That's correct. QUESTION: No. There is an order dismissing.There is an order that says remand it to the courts.QUESTION: It says remand to the State -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: To the State courts. But that --that isn't what they meant.MR. BERMAN: That is -- that is not what hemeant.QUESTION: All right. That is a problem. I seethat as a problem, but I don't know if it's an insuperableproblem --(Laughter.) MR. BERMAN: And the problem I have, JusticeBreyer, is that I would like to agree with your argumentbecause, as you pointed out, this is something that'splaguing the courts.QUESTION: All right. The way it would haveworked if they had gotten -- hadn't said remand to Statecourts, is they would have sent it back to transferordistricts. Some transferor districts would have agreedwith this judge, some would have come to otherconclusions, and we plainly could have reviewed the onesthat came to other conclusions so we could have decidedthe issue. So is that what you think should happen? Whatshould happen? MR. BERMAN: Well, I would like the Court toreview the underlying merits, but to do so, I think youhave to do some gamesmanship and do injustice to .QUESTION: Isn't, Mr. Berman, what -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: Justice Breyer told you that -- saidthat it would have to go back to the State courts. Butthe question is what is the it. You have to first disposeof the action that was instituted by the consolidatedcomplaint.MR. BERMAN: That was disposed of.QUESTION: But that's the only thing we'rearguing about here, and the arg -- and the contention isit was improperly disposed of and that it was disposed ofon a basis that injures the defendants and that they canappeal that because they're aggrieved under the cases thatMr. Waxman cites. And that's all we're talking about. MR. BERMAN: And I understand that, JusticeKennedy, but the case that Mr. Waxman cites and the caseshe cites for the proposition that an aggrieved party canappeal, I don't quarrel with that.The problem with that authority in this case isthat none of those cases that he cites are cases wherethere's been a dismissal, which there was in this case, ofthe consolidated complaint on the grounds of a lack ofsubject matter jurisdiction. And --QUESTION: Mr. Berman, I think something needsclarification here. When a district judge in a multi-district case like this makes a pretrial order,determination, decision, and on the basis of that, those th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC cases go back to the district courts from whence theycame, that ruling is not up for grabs in the individualdistrict courts. That is the law of the case that theyall must follow. And as I understand the Western Districtof Washington decision, that there was no subject matterjurisdiction, that would not be open for contest in thedistrict courts. MR. BERMAN: I -- I agree with that. It wouldgo to the district courts pursuant to proper MDL practice. We would move for enforcement of the judge's orderremanding the case, but we couldn't fight that issue ofsubject matter jurisdiction because it would have beendecided --QUESTION: Okay. So -- so that if that hadhappened -- going back to an answer you gave earlier, ifthat had happened, and -- and the -- the missing step hadbeen included and it said, back to the transferor court,the only thing that could have happened with thetransferor court, the jurisdictional issue having beendecided in the Western District of Washington, would be toremand.MR. BERMAN: That's correct. QUESTION: Yeah, okay. MR. BERMAN: And -- and because of that --QUESTION: May -- may I ask? Mr. Waxman pointed th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC out to us that this order was actually stayed by thedistrict court and by the Ninth Circuit, and I don't findthe stay order in the appendix. I'm sure it's in therecord, as he points out. But in connection with gettingthat stay and the -- the both -- in both the districtcourt and the court of appeals, did anyone point out toeither of those courts that the order was defective for --for failing to -- to include the transferor court ratherthan going direct to the State court? MR. BERMAN: No.QUESTION: So that just surfaced today. MR. BERMAN: It just surfaced today. And -- andthe jurisdictional issue just surfaced in response to yourquestion. No one raised the issue in any of thecourts below. I had originally had come to talk about theimportant issue. (Laughter.) MR. BERMAN: And I -- I don't know that Mr. --QUESTION: Us too. (Laughter.) MR. BERMAN: Mr. Waxman hasn't had time toaddress that issue. I don't know if the Court wants me togo into that. I have some time remaining. QUESTION: I think the Court would like to. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. BERMAN: Very briefly then. This Court has,since the Judiciary Act of was passed, consistentlyconstrued diversity jurisdiction so as to avoid expandingthe Federal caseload. That's the teaching of Snyder v.Harris. The proposition that's asserted here today by thepetitioners that you can use administrative costs insatisfying the amount in controversy would vastly expandthe Federal caseload in two ways. QUESTION: Is your objection just to the conceptof administrative costs, Mr. Berman, or to the idea thatit can be compute -- the amount in controversy can becomputed at all from the defendants' point of view?MR. BERMAN: Mr. Chief Justice, my answer tothat is I think that the Court could adopt a rule allowingthe amount in controversy to be determined from eitherviewpoint, both from the plaintiffs' viewpoint or from thedefendants' viewpoint. But that doesn't answer thequestion. The -- the question really presented then is howdo we value that amount. And this Court's teachings Ithink have answered that question, and that is in the Huntcase, the Court has ruled and has consistently followedthis proposition, that it is well established that theamount in controversy is measured by the value of theobject of the litigation. And so, another way the Court th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC has put it is what right does the plaintiff seek to haveenforced here. The --QUESTION: In a -- in a couple of those quotes,you know, taken out of context, they seem to support yourposition. They certainly don't controvert your position. But the Court wasn't really faced with the issue here.MR. BERMAN: I -- I think the Court has neversquarely been faced with the issue of should theplaintiff's rule be adopted or not. There is suggestionsthat it should be, but I think what the Court has beenconsistent on is looking at the value of the object oflitigation from the point of view, what is it that theplaintiff wants, not what are the incidental costs to thedefendant. In fact, there is a case -- and I -- I knowit's an old case, but the Ross case and the Elliott casesquarely hold that jurisdiction does not depend upon anycontingent injuries or damage to a defendant in a case.And if the rule is otherwise -- and by the way,I think there's a big difference, for the purposes of thisCourt's review, of an administrative cost versusinjunctive relief. So let me first focus onadministrative cost.The mischief, I think, of allowingadministrative cost to be considered is illustrated by anearlier Ninth Circuit decision in Snow v. Ford. And there th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC the plaintiff sought an injunction because Ford had sold atrailer package without an $ wiring kit. And Fordargued then, as it does now, that because it would have toincur substantial costs in supplying this $ kit, thatthere was Federal jurisdiction.Well, the value of the object of litigation fromthe plaintiffs' point of view, if you can't aggregate,which under Snyder v. Harris you can't, is $. If theCourt is going to allow administrative cost to beconsidered, then this Court is going to have hundreds --Federal courts are going to have hundreds of $ cases infront of them. And I think Judge Posner hit the nail right onthe head in the Brand Name Prescription Drug case, inwhich he said that if the costs of compliance wereconsidered, then every case, virtually every case, quote,however trivial would cross the threshold.QUESTION: Why shouldn't they have it if in factit really does cost the defendant the $,, however youcategorize it? Why shouldn't the Federal courts hearthose cases? MR. BERMAN: Because consistently this Court haslooked at the value of the right to be protected andexcluded such incidental costs. The value of the rightthere -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: There might be a legal argumentthere, but I thought you were making a policy argumentthat it was a bad thing.MR. BERMAN: Well, I do -- I do --QUESTION: And I don't see why that's so if infact in most cases I think that if it's going to cost$, for an $ claim, if it's really just one claim,the defendant will settle it. And, of course, if it's notreally just one claim, but really involves class actionsinvolving many hundreds of claims, that's just what'ssupposed to be in the Federal court. MR. BERMAN: Well, then you'd have to overruleSnyder and the non-aggregation --QUESTION: There's a legal -- you're making apurely legal argument then.MR. BERMAN: Yes, which -- which they're notadvocating. But from a policy argument, my argument isthat you would suddenly thrust the Federal courts indetermination of what basically are State -- routine Statelaw matters. QUESTION: But that's what -- that's what thisClass Action Fairness Act, which has considerable support,that's pending in Congress -- it's still pending, isn'tit?MR. BERMAN: That's correct. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: That's what it would do. It wouldallow -- if -- if the price tag of all these small claimsfor the defendant was more than the amount in controversy-- well, I think it puts a much higher price tag than$,. But anyway, that -- that's the idea of the classaction bill that's pending in Congress, to put all thesecases, to aggregate them if the total dollar amount forthe defendant is very high. MR. BERMAN: That's correct. That -- it's $million, the new proposed limit, and it would allowaggregation, which this Court so far has not allowed. SoCongress realizes under existing precedent that what the-- Ford wants to do here is not permitted. QUESTION: Well, is -- is -- is there a -- isthere a distinction to be made along these lines? And I-- I may not be able to -- to state what I'm trying towork out in my mind, but here -- here's -- here's thedistinction I'm trying to -- to get at. Let's assume that the -- that the only issue is-- is an issue in one case. They didn't give the $taillight or whatever it was. And because of thebureaucracy of a big company, in order to provide the one$ tail light, it's going to cost $, to galvanizeeverybody into action and get the tail light. I see yourargument in that case. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC There's a difference, though, in this casebecause what they're saying in this case is they promisedthat they would have a kind of administrative system inplace that would take account of all these various creditcharge card -- credit card charges and -- and would --would ultimately result in -- in this -- this credit of upto $, for our benefit. The various people who areaggrieved by their failure to do it aren't all claiming$,. You know, they may be claiming everything from $to $,. The only way to satisfy our -- our -- theclaims of all these people who are in the class is to putthe system in place. If that's the essence of their claim, they'renot saying we want you to incur a lot of administrativecosts in order to get to a particular result, which isjurisdictionally insufficient. They're saying, we wantyou to put the system in the place -- in place that youagreed you would do. The system is not an administrativecost. It's what you promised in the first place. Thesystem is the tail light. Is that a fair distinction, and does -- doesthat count against you? MR. BERMAN: That's their argument, and I don'tthink it counts against my position for two reasons. Inorder to make that argument, what they're really doing is th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC aggregating what it would cost to reinstitute the systemas if they were going to pay all million class --QUESTION: But the system is not an aggregatedsystem. There's either a system or there isn't a system. If there is a system, it produces different resultsdepending on the kind of business that individuals do. But the system is not a separate system for all of themembers of the class which is being aggregated. It's asystem to fulfill one promise which was made in commonform to the entire class. And isn't that a distinctionwhich removes it from this notion simply of administrativecost? MR. BERMAN: No, because right now there arejust six plaintiffs. This is not a class. And those sixplaintiffs may have a total of $, at stake. All Fordhas to do to satisfy their claim in this case is to givethose six people the rebates. QUESTION: Okay. MR. BERMAN: And the only way to get around thatis to aggregate this case, which they can't do. And sothe danger --QUESTION: There is -- there is no claim forspecific performance? MR. BERMAN: There is as to each plaintiff. QUESTION: But not as to a class. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. BERMAN: That's right, because what we havehere and the --QUESTION: So they -- so they could multiply, by and that would be the end of the case.MR. BERMAN: That's right, because prior to thislitigation -- this gets to the common and undividedinterest. Prior to this litigation, these plaintiffs,these million people, were completely unrelated. Theyhad no common interest in this issue, and therefore, youcan't follow -- you can't aggregate. They have to betreated --QUESTION: Let me ask you a philosophicalquestion. Mr. Waxman got into epistemology a minute ago. Let me ask you a contrary-to-fact question. If in fact the Federal action were a classaction and it included everybody who had been included inthe State class actions and specific performance had beenrequested in the form that I suggested, would that nottake it out of the aggregation problem and -- and --and -- and satisfy the jurisdictional amount, even on yourown theory?MR. BERMAN: No, because under the analysis of-- of this Court and the Gilman court in the SecondCircuit and the Ninth Circuit, again because each personhad a separate right, as they've admitted. They've th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC admitted that for damage purposes each person had aseparate and distinct claim. QUESTION: Yeah, but that's not the same as forspecific performance purposes. MR. BERMAN: It is. If -- if I -- if one of myplaintiffs decides he no longer wants to be in thislitigation, they have don't have to up the specificperformance to someone else. Each person only has theright to the rebates they were entitled to. So they'reseparate and distinct no matter what the relief is. QUESTION: Were these class actions -- werethese actions certified as class actions in the Statecourt before they were removed? MR. BERMAN: No. They -- they were removedbefore anything happened. QUESTION: So we have -- you need theaggregation of the class action.MR. BERMAN: That's correct. You have an -- youhave an uncertified class here. The other danger I'll touch on in my last minuteof allowing the injunctive -- amount it would cost thedefendant, either by way of injunction or administrativecost, is that plaintiffs could use this new theory toinvoke Federal court jurisdiction. The amicus seem tosuggest that plaintiffs never want to be in Federal court. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC That's not correct. If you adopt the petitioners' rule,anytime I have a case where I want to be in Federal court,where I normally could not be in Federal court -- and Ihave many such cases right now -- I would just simply haveto say in my prayer for relief that the -- the injunctionwould cost the defendant more than $,. And bingo, Ihave a whole new rule and there's a whole new group ofFederal cases that suddenly would arise. So in closing, unless there's any questions, theproblem with the defendants' -- the petitioners' positionin this case is that it would open up the flood gates oflitigation to the Federal court system. We cited a RANDInstitute study that about percent of the country'sclass actions are in State courts, and to adopt their rulewould mean that many of those, probably thousands ofcases, that are now residing in State courts wouldsuddenly find their way into Federal courts. That I thinkis not consistent with this Court's policy of strictlyconstruing the diversity statute and giving deference toState courts and State governments with respect to lawsthat they have the power to enact and to have those casesheard in State courts.Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice.QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. Berman. Mr. Waxman, you have minutes remaining. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF SETH P. WAXMANON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERSMR. WAXMAN: Thank you, Your Honor. I'll use minute on appellate jurisdiction and I hope minutes onsubject matter jurisdiction. On appellate jurisdiction, there is no doubtwhatsoever that what was intended here was a new complaintabout new things to proceed to judgment at trial. At page of the transcript of oral argument before the districtjudge on the class certification issue, the court says,"if a nationwide class were to be certified" -- he'stalking about the consolidated complaint -- "would therebe any need for further MDL proceedings, or would thewhole litigation just be there in this one case for trialor other disposition? "Mr. Berman: That is my understanding. Therewould be no further -- everyone has consented. All theplaintiffs' counsel and defendants have consented to havethis case here." Justice Ginsburg, in response to your questionabout cases in which a declaratory judgment action wasfiled where it -- the case could have been litigated by aplaintiff class in a consumer case, that was the case inthe Greenwood Trust case filed by a bank in the FirstCircuit that ultimately produced this Court's decision in th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Smiley which was a consumer class action that came up outof California. Now, with respect to specific performance,specific performance is the object of this complaint. Itis what they want. It is the thing they need in order forany of them to be able to realize the benefits. And asthis Court said in Mississippi & Missouri River Bridge v.Ward -- in that case, it involved removing a bridgeobstruction -- the removal of the obstruction is thematter of the controversy and the value of the object mustgovern. The complaint itself says they want specificperformance of the national rebate program, and if therewere any clarification needed, you look at page of thered brief and they explain that that's just what theywant. If there were any --QUESTION: They don't -- they don't need thatfor their relief. And wouldn't that be a frivolouscomplaint? Wouldn't that be conferring jurisdiction by --by making an assertion that goes way beyond what anybodywould consider reasonable? MR. WAXMAN: It's -- it would not if -- theCourt may or may not grant specific performance of thenational program in response to a particular plaintiff,but it would certainly not be a frivolous claim. Cases th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC like that are brought all the time.QUESTION: Why -- Mr. -- Mr. Waxman, if you --if the test is one plaintiff -- if it's Judge Posner'stest, you assume there's one plaintiff, what will it costthe defendant. Injunctive relief for one plaintiff wouldonly involve tracking that particular plaintiff'spurchases, and that wouldn't add up to $,.MR. WAXMAN: Justice Ginsburg, first, the costis -- the test is the cost of supplying the reliefrequested in the complaint to any one plaintiff, and thatis class-wide relief. It would also cost a sufficientamount even if it were only one plaintiff. QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. Waxman. MR. WAXMAN: Thank you. CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: The case is submitted.(Whereupon, at : p.m., the case in theabove-entitled matter was submitted.) th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC 