 IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XTHE HOLMES GROUP, INC., Petitioner :: v. : No. - VORNADO AIR CIRCULATION SYSTEMS, INC. : : - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XWashington, D.C.Tuesday, March , The above-entitled matter came on for oralargument before the Supreme Court of the United States at: a.m.APPEARANCES:JAMES W. DABNEY, ESQ., New York, New York; on behalf ofthe Petitioner.PETER W. GOWDEY, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf of theRespondent. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC C O N T E N T SORAL ARGUMENT OF JAMES W. DABNEY, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioner PETER W. GOWDEY, ESQ.On behalf of the Respondent REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OFJAMES W. DABNEY, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioner PAGE th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC P R O C E E D I N G S(: a.m.)CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: We'll hear argument innext No. -, The Holmes Group v. Vornado AirCirculation Systems, Inc. Mr. Dabney. ORAL ARGUMENT OF JAMES W. DABNEYON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERMR. DABNEY: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court:This case concerns how far the Federal Circuitcan properly go in taking jurisdiction to the exclusion ofthe regional circuits.In its recent construction of its appellatejurisdiction, the Federal Circuit has effectively takenthe position that the defendant's answer containing apatent counterclaim acts like a super removal petition. The Federal Circuit says that if the defendant in a non-patent suit files an answer that includes a patentcounterclaim, that pleading automatically removes theplaintiff's non-patent suits from regional circuitjurisdiction and transfers it to Federal Circuitjurisdiction. According to the respondent, that same pleadingautomatically has the effect of changing the substantive th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC law governing non-patent claims in the plaintiff's non-patent suit from regional circuit to Federal Circuit law,and the decision below demonstrates that these principlesapply even when a judgment is entered which doesn'taddress patent law at all. The petitioner respectfully submits that thedecision below is antithetical to what the Congress had inmind when it established the Federal Circuit.QUESTION: Well, Congress did want patent law tobe uniform, didn't it? MR. DABNEY: Congress --QUESTION: I mean, that's why it placed thejurisdiction in the Court of Appeals for the FederalCircuit. MR. DABNEY: One -- Mr. -- Your Honor, one ofthe Congress' objectives in establishing the FederalCircuit certainly was --QUESTION: And to the extent that you then allowthe other courts of appeals to deal with patent claims,you're defeating that uniformity goal. MR. DABNEY: Your Honor, the Congress inenacting , according to this Court in Christianson,establishes not that every case in which a Federal patentclaim is raised automatically goes to the Federal Circuit. This Court in Christianson held -- this Court in th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Christianson addressed the question, how do we know if acase belongs in the Federal Circuit? That was thespecific question raised in Christianson. Citing the legislative history of , thisCourt answered that question. Cases fall within theexclusive jurisdiction of the Federal Circuit, this Courtheld, in the same sense that cases are said to arise underFederal -- under Federal law for purposes of Federalquestion jurisdiction. QUESTION: Mr. Dabney, has the Federal Circuitheld that whenever there's a patent claim in a -- in a --a patent issue in a counterclaim, it has jurisdiction? Ormust it be a compulsory counterclaim?MR. DABNEY: The Federal Circuit has held in theDSC Communications case that permissive or compulsory, itdoesn't matter. QUESTION: It doesn't matter. QUESTION: But in this case --QUESTION: In this case, it was compulsory. Right? MR. DABNEY: Your Honor, it is far from clearthat the counterclaim in this case was in fact compulsory. The -- and the -- and the Court can see that most clearlyby looking at the answer that was actually filed in thiscase, which appears on pages to of the lodging. The th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC one thing that's conspicuously absent from the answerfiled in this case was any counterclaim for trade dressinfringement. Well, if this was --QUESTION: But did -- did the court of appealssay in this case that the -- the counterclaim wascompulsory?MR. DABNEY: The court of appeals did not saythat. There's absolutely nothing in the decision --QUESTION: We're not talking about the tradedress claim. It was the patent infringement counterclaimthat was in question. MR. DABNEY: The respondent has taken theposition that the patent counterclaim that it filed inthis particular case was compulsory within the meaning ofrule . No court has passed on that question that --QUESTION: Did it not arise out of the sametransaction and occurrence which under the rules isinterpreted broadly? MR. DABNEY: The subject matter of thatcounterclaim was, at the time it was filed, the subject ofanother pending proceeding. And it is far from clear thatthis respondent was under any legal duty whatsoever toassert that patent counterclaim at any believable risk toitself. QUESTION: Suppose that respondent who started th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC his own show in the -- in the CIT -- when the defendant inthat case turns up as plaintiff in Kansas District Court-- was it? The -- the district court here? MR. DABNEY: At the time that the present actionwas commenced, the plaintiff in this action was one ofthree named people whom the respondent was trying to getan investigation started against. QUESTION: No. I just wanted to know where theforum was. The forum that the plaintiff is suing in is inthe Tenth Circuit. MR. DABNEY: Correct. QUESTION: And it's in Kansas. MR. DABNEY: That's correct. QUESTION: Okay. Suppose the plaintiff in the suit in New Yorkthen brings that same claim in the district court inKansas and says, court, please consolidate these two, andthen you don't have a counterclaim. You have two claimsconsolidated for adjudication. Suppose that were thecase. MR. DABNEY: Yes. QUESTION: Then, I take it, the judgment isrendered. There's a patent claim, not a counterclaim, buta claim, and then the jurisdiction is in the FederalCircuit. Is that right? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. DABNEY: That is a hypothetical situation,different from this case. I would suggest that thedistrict court has an arsenal of remedies to decidewhether that should or should not be the outcome in thatcase. QUESTION: I'm asking you a question that putstogether two claims, not counterclaims, two claims. Thedistrict court has made the judgment that these arise outof the same transaction and occurrence and thereforeconsolidates them because it makes sense in terms ofjudicial economy. Okay. They are processed asconsolidated cases. There's a judgment. Where does theappeal go? MR. DABNEY: I -- I would say in practice thatwould depend in large measure on the sequence in which thematters are tried, whether they are tried at the sametime, whether they are tried separately.QUESTION: Yes, they are tried at the same time.MR. DABNEY: Tried at the same time? I believethat under the question that this Court has not acceptedexpressly under question , it would be open to both sidesin that situation to request that the district court enterjudgments which would preserve regional circuitjurisdiction over the plaintiff's non-patent suit in thefirst case. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: They're both plaintiffs. MR. DABNEY: I understand. And no one in thiscase -- there's no question in this case as to what theappropriate disposition would be of any claim for patentinfringement or any judgment adjudicating any such claim. If the question had come up --QUESTION: Are you suggesting in -- in responseto my question that they would -- these two cases thathave been consolidated would then be split apart forpurposes of appeal and one claim would go to a regionalcircuit and the other to the Federal Circuit?MR. DABNEY: It would be open to the parties tothat litigation in -- where they're both plaintiffs andthey both have filed claims, to request the entry ofjudgments if they felt it was in their interest to do so,based on the outcome of the trial. QUESTION: Well, you're assuming they could haveseparate judgments under (b). Is that what your pointis here? MR. DABNEY: Yes, Your Honor. QUESTION: Yes. But if there were a single judgment which didinclude the patent claim, then I think you'd say theappeal would go to the Federal Circuit.MR. DABNEY: Not -- not necessarily. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: Come on. Give us a little bit. Surely, surely in that case. QUESTION: Well, why not? I mean, what are yougiving up in your case by agreeing to that? I don'tunderstand that. MR. DABNEY: I think it's important tounderstand that when a -- when a person comes to court andasked for a court to vary the rights and obligations ofparties, seeks judicial relief, what that person comes tocourt with is a bundle of rights. That's his suit. Thatis what he's asking the court to vindicate. This Courthas never said that that bundle of rights, the plaintiff'sright to choose who's going to decide that claim, and whatlaw is going to govern that claim, can be changed at allautomatically by something the defendant pleads or by howthe --QUESTION: May I -- may I interrupt and ask akind of a basic question here? MR. DABNEY: Certainly. QUESTION: It seems to me that you could prevailon either of two theories, that -- that the counterclaimshould be ignored for purposes of selecting the appellatecourt to go to, or you could say that in this particularcase, you got a (b) judgment that had -- was totallyunrelated to patent claims and therefore, in this case, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC regardless of whether we agree with Aerojet or the rest,you should prevail. But you seem to be arguing that even if thecounterclaim had been decided and adjudicated on a patentissue, that you -- it would be the same case. MR. DABNEY: That is correct, Your Honor. QUESTION: You're not relying on the fact that-- that there was a severance of the non-patent claimsunder -- with a (b) finding, that it was a separateclaim.MR. DABNEY: That would provide a narrower basisfor reversal. QUESTION: But you're not asking us to rule onthat basis. MR. DABNEY: Well, we did in the petition, butthe Court declined to accept question in the petition. What Your Honor asked me was specifically question inthe petition for certiorari. QUESTION: I see. MR. DABNEY: And the Court did not accept thatquestion before the Court. Hence, we're up on the broaderquestion of whether or not the plaintiff's well-pleadedcomplaint continues to govern the basis of arising underjurisdiction in the Federal court.In Christianson, to decide this case, the Court th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC need look hardly beyond U.S., page . Right thenand there the Court was faced with the question, how do weknow if a case properly belongs in the Federal Circuit? And the Court held, we know that because Congress has toldus the answer. What Congress said is, cases fall withinthe exclusive jurisdiction of the Federal Circuit in thesame way that they are said to arise under Federal law forpurposes of general Federal question jurisdiction under. The cases are legion which say that what adefendant pleads in its answer, whether it's anaffirmative defense or a counterclaim, is irrelevant towhether a case falls within the original arising underjurisdiction of the Federal court. QUESTION: In the -- in the context wherethere's a great concern about Federal-State relations,cases lodged in the State court being lifted out of thatState court and put into a Federal court, this context istotally different. It is an entirely Federal context, andit's a question of which appellate forum it goes to. Andit seems to me that you can't just say that what arisingunder means in the original jurisdiction context itnecessarily means when we're talking about an exclusiveappellate forum for a case that's colored Federal totally. There's no State element in it. MR. DABNEY: Your Honor, I would say two things th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC in response to that. In the first place, that was exactly theargument which the respondent in Christianson made. Infootnote of Christianson, the Court expressly recitedmaybe our arising under jurisprudence is irrelevant inthis case since, after all, we're only deciding whetherthe Seventh Circuit or the Federal Circuit should decidethis antitrust case in which the district courtinvalidated a number of patents.And citing the legislative history that theCongress chose, for better or for worse, to make thereferent of Federal Circuit jurisdiction the same as thereferent of district court jurisdiction under and, under the page and in the passage that I just read,this Court I believe specifically considered and decidedthat notwithstanding that the outcome in this type of caseis simply which of two Federal courts of appeals will heara case. Nevertheless, for better or for worse, Congresshas decided that the referent of Federal Circuitjurisdiction is the same. QUESTION: Christianson was the first time theCourt encountered this issue, and Christianson affirmedthe Federal Circuit. The Federal Circuit said, we don'thave the appellate authority in this case.A couple of years later, the Federal Circuit th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC looked at the issue again in Aerojet and it wrote anopinion saying these are different. In one case we weredealing with a defense, an issue, a question, and inanother case, we've got a claim. And for purposes ofwhich court of appeals it goes to, maybe the court is --in Aerojet is saying we have to qualify Christianson'sreasoning if not -- not its result.MR. DABNEY: Justice Ginsburg, in Aerojet, theFederal Circuit stated, among other things, that thetraditional prerogative of the plaintiff to choose his lawand to choose his court applies only to the trial courtlevel. The Aerojet case said that the plaintiff in thatcase had fully exhausted his right to choose his court andto choose his law because he had access to a districtcourt forum.This Court -- this case demonstrates how thatrationale of Aerojet is mischievous and dangerous andincorrect. Since Aerojet in , there has been a seachange in the Federal Circuit's approach to what law itchooses to apply in cases such as this, and it is theFederal Circuit's choice of law approach, adopted in thelate 's, which has given birth to this entire action.QUESTION: When you say choice of law, you'renot talking strictly about patent law, I take it.MR. DABNEY: Absolutely not. This -- it's th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC undisputed that what --QUESTION: You're talking about Federal lawinterpreted differently by different circuits. MR. DABNEY: Precisely.QUESTION: It's not like am I going to choosethe law of France or the law of Oklahoma versus the law ofNew York.MR. DABNEY: That's absolutely the case. Andthe Federal Circuit, being a co-equal court of appeals, isfully entitled, I suppose, to fashion its own liabilityrules and apply them even to claims over which it has onlynonexclusive or pendent jurisdiction. But by doing that,it has given rise to great incentives, which therespondent has attempted to avail itself of in this case,to get a case into the Federal Circuit and take advantageof the different law of the Federal Circuit on a non-patent claim. So, I would suggest to Your Honor that thisCourt has never wavered from the idea that a person whocomes to court seeking relief -- there's a lot ofuncertainty in litigation. I'm called upon to adviseclients all the time whether they should or should notbring suit, where they should bring suit, how they shouldbring suit. The one thing this Court has said, whateverelse is uncertain in litigation, the one thing you know th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC is, number one, if you bring a suit, you have -- you areabsolute master to decide what law you're going to rely onin your complaint. That's your claim. If I specify thelaw of California in my complaint, that's my choice. Ifthe plaintiff specifies the law of the Tenth Circuit or ajudgment of the Tenth Circuit, that is the plaintiff'schoice. QUESTION: That's a little odd, don't you think? We are talking about one law, a Federal law. It is notquite the same as talking about the law of California, thelaw of Nevada. And wasn't one of the purposes of havingthe Federal Circuit so that you would reduce the number ofdisparities in -- in Federal law? MR. DABNEY: Well, early in its history theFederal Circuit seemed to be more mindful of that type ofconflict than it is today. It's very important that Your Honor understand. In the Midwest case, which fomented this whole thing, the Midwest case, that was a case that involved not justFederal law claims, that was a case that involved claimsunder Iowa State law. And the Federal Circuit in thatcase was considering whether or not a plaintiff couldproperly claim trade dress protection for the shape a boattrailer winch post. And the district court had grantedsummary judgment dismissing the plaintiff's claims not th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC just under the Lanham Act, but under Iowa State law.QUESTION: Well, you -- you don't mean that theFederal Circuit has asserted that where you have a Stateclaim, that it's going to apply Federal law to that Stateclaim.MR. DABNEY: That is exactly what it did in theMidwest case. The Federal Circuit --QUESTION: Mr. Dabney, we're all quite close toyou. I think perhaps we can hear you even if you don'tspeak so quite so loudly. (Laughter.) QUESTION: You -- you are saying that theFederal Circuit said we have the right not only todetermine what is an answer to a Federal issue, but wehave a right to tell Iowa what the law of the State ofIowa is? That would be astonishing. MR. DABNEY: I invite Your Honor to look atpages and of volume of Federal rd, and YourHonor will read there that the Federal Circuit reversed asummary judgment under Iowa State law on the ground thatin its view the Federal patent law doesn't limit any claimthat can be asserted under Iowa State law. And therefore,the district court erred in not holding that Iowa Statelaw could protect the shape of a trailer winch post.QUESTION: Mr. Dabney, would you heed my th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC admonition? Please do. MR. DABNEY: Thank you, Your Honor. Iapologize, Mr. Chief Justice. So, therefore --QUESTION: On -- on one point that you madeabout the Federal Circuit saying, well, if it's a Federalquestion, what is the Federal law? We decide that as oursister circuits do. It's just asserting that it's a courtof equal dignity, that it's not under the enthrall of theTenth Circuit or any other circuit.MR. DABNEY: I am not questioning that that iswhat the Federal Circuit is currently doing, and that it-- it -- I'm not questioning it has the power to do that. QUESTION: May I ask this -- just a questionabout the history of what we've got before us? Am Icorrect in believing that until the Federal Circuitchanged its view and started to apply its own law to non-patent issues as opposed to applying other circuits' lawwhen the case arose in another circuit, the bar generallywas totally happy with the rule that the counterclaimwould -- counterclaim alleging a patent claim would besufficient to give appellate jurisdiction to the FederalCircuit? MR. DABNEY: I cannot say that that is a faircharacterization of what the bar generally holds. I th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC believe that the bar is very cautious in what it saysabout any court in which it may appear in front of. QUESTION: Is it --QUESTION: So, it is true that this -- this has become a much more important problem since they changedthe -- their rule on what they do with the ancillaryclaims. MR. DABNEY: It has much greater practicalsignificance now. But the fact of the matter is that thearising under basis --QUESTION: The jurisdiction rule is the same ineither event. MR. DABNEY: Is -- is the same. We have abright line test. How do we know whether a case belongsin the Federal Circuit or in any Federal court? You lookat what's presented on the place -- on the face of theplaintiff's well-pleaded complaint. You don't inquireinto the plaintiff's motives or -- or spin-out theories asto why the plaintiff is doing what it's doing.QUESTION: Well, may I ask a question? MR. DABNEY: Certainly. QUESTION: Not -- not your case certainly, butwe had a case called Cardinal Chemical Company v. MortonInternational in , which seemed to say that a patentlaw counterclaim could serve as an independent basis for a th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC district court's original jurisdiction.MR. DABNEY: That's not how I read CardinalChemical, Justice O'Connor. QUESTION: Okay. MR. DABNEY: Cardinal Chemical was a straight-up patent infringement case. The defendant in that caseasserted two -- at least two things in -- in response tothe claim of patent infringement. The defendant inCardinal Chemical said, your patent is invalid, andtherefore I'm not liable. And then, as many defendants donowadays, the defendant in Cardinal Chemical says, I alsowant a counterclaim for declaratory judgment that yourpatent is invalid. One of the reasons why I want that isso that if you, the plaintiff, decide to pull the plug onyour suit, I can stay in court on my counterclaim. Andthat was what came up and that was the issue. However, it's very clear that since at least the source of a district court's power to hear acounterclaim like that is in , supplementaljurisdiction. The district court unquestionably --QUESTION: Not ? MR. DABNEY: Not -- absolutely not. . So --QUESTION: What is -- what is -- taking a case,Mr. Dabney -- and this has come up I think again and again th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC -- where you have a counterclaim that would qualify forFederal jurisdiction whether under , , whatever,that for whatever reason, the main claim drops out, maybebecause it failed -- fails to state a claim. Thecounterclaim, whether it's an antitrust claim, patentclaim, copyright claim, stays in Federal court and it'snot supplemental to anything. It has its ownjurisdictional base. It's a Federal claim. And if itweren't a Federal claim, it couldn't stay there because itwould have nothing to pend to. MR. DABNEY: I don't believe that's a correctstatement of . I believe that a Federal court canretain --QUESTION: Are there not many, many cases in thedistrict court, blessed by the courts of appeals, whereexactly what I've described happens? The main claim dropsfor whatever reason. There's a counterclaim that wouldqualify independently for Federal jurisdiction. The courtwill adjudicate that. But if it has a counterclaim thatwould not independently qualify, it is not likely to hangonto that case. Right?MR. DABNEY: That is what happens --QUESTION: Because -- because the only Federalpeg is gone. And pendent jurisdiction is exercised whenthere's a tail that's attached to a dog, but when the dog th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC is gone, the tail doesn't stay. MR. DABNEY: Yes. But in that situation,Justice Ginsburg, you're not talking about nullifying aplaintiff's choice of law and forum through the -- theassertion of a well-pleaded complaint. If a plaintiffasserts a defective complaint and shouldn't --QUESTION: The question I asked you is you saidthat what had been going on for years before there was codified, all of a sudden that independent Federalclaim, be it an antitrust claim, a patent claim, suddenlybecomes shrunken to a supplemental jurisdiction ratherthan having its own jurisdictional peg. MR. DABNEY: I don't know that the legalsignificance of the source of a district court's power toact in that situation has ever been a subject on which anylegal consequences followed so that the body of law thatdeveloped on that would have any precedential significancein this situation. The fact -- the critical distinction betweenthis situation and the one Your Honor is positing is thatin the situations Your Honor is talking about, you're nottalking about a plaintiff who had a well-pleaded complaintwho he prevailed on being ousted of his chosen court andforum. I don't believe that the appropriate dispositionof a counterclaim in that situation sheds any light on th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC what should happen to a plaintiff who files suit undernon-patent law and wins, and the plaintiff doesn't seekrelief under Federal patent law. The plaintiff doesn'tcare what the defendant does with other claims thedefendant has. If the respondent wants to have a patentcounterclaim, go to the Federal court or litigate aFederal patent counterclaim in the International TradeCommission, more power to it. This suit was brought to get preliminaryinjunctive relief against threatened, imminent,irreparable harm to the plaintiff's business which wasgranted. There was a preliminary injunction that wasissued in January of , which remains in effect to thisday upon the posting of a $, bond. The plaintiffhad every right and entitlement to go into court, to pleadhis claim in the way that the plaintiff thought would bestaccomplish the plaintiff's objectives. That is aprerogative which this Court has said over and over andover again is the plaintiff's right. No well-counseledplaintiff could possibly file a lawsuit without thinkingwhat court is most likely to give me the relief that I'mseeking. That's not forum shopping. That's goodlawyering. And that's what happened in this case.QUESTION: And what about a defendant who wouldjust love to have -- not particularly litigious, has a th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC claim, a good claim, asserts it as a counterclaim, goesinto the district court because that's where it belongs? I just don't understand why the rule that would apply tothe district court carries over to the specialized courtof appeals if you are, in fact, dealing with a patentclaim that's been adjudicated. MR. DABNEY: This Court has held and the -- thecongressional choice of the arising under referent forFederal Circuit jurisdiction clearly recognized that therewill be many, many times when patent law questions andpatent law issues, including the issue of validity, willbe decided not just in the regional circuits, but in theState courts. Would it really have mattered in Lear v. Adkinsif the defendant in that case hadn't just said, thecontract is invalid because the patent is no good andthere's no consideration, if it had filed a counterclaim,as was done in Cardinal Chemical and said, I want adeclaratory judgment that the patent isn't valid? Nolegal consequence should follow from that. And in the real world, Justice Ginsburg, if adefendant really is concerned about maintaining its accessto the Federal Circuit, the defendant will file his ownsuit, as Your Honor suggested in that --QUESTION: This defendant did. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. DABNEY: I'm sorry? QUESTION: Didn't -- this defendant did. Hestarted in the -- in the --MR. DABNEY: The respondent -- and -- and it wasfree at all times to pursue all available remedies in thatforum and that's not -- that's not even in question atthis point. But just as the respondent was free to choosea forum that it thought was most favorable to it, which,by the way, would have been subject to Federal Circuitreview, so was the petitioner. And the petitioner filedsuit in accordance with the rules. It got a judgment. Itwon, and it's had its judgment taken away by a court thatclearly does not have jurisdiction to hear thecontroversy.If there's no further questions, I'd like toreserve the rest of my time. QUESTION: Very well, Mr. Dabney. Mr. Gowdey, we'll hear -- hear from you. ORAL ARGUMENT OF PETER W. GOWDEYON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTMR. GOWDEY: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court:In light of the colloquy that we've had, I wantto make a preliminary point and then a couple otherstarting points. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC The first is that there's absolutely no issuethat the Federal Circuit has failed to follow this Court'sprecedents and, as Justice Ginsburg pointed outpreviously, correctly anticipated this Court's holding inChristianson. And to respond to a question that JusticeO'Connor raised, in the Cardinal case, this Court did say,in this case Cardinal properly invoked the originaljurisdiction of a district court by way of its patentcounterclaim.QUESTION: Mr. Gowdey, do you think the court of-- the Federal Circuit's opinion here is entirelyconsistent with footnote in our Colt opinion? MR. GOWDEY: In the which opinion, Your Honor? QUESTION: In -- in our Christianson v. ColtIndustries? MR. GOWDEY: I think -- I think that theposition that the Federal Circuit has taken this Court iscompletely consistent with Christian v. Colt.QUESTION: And -- and with footnote therein?MR. GOWDEY: Yes. And -- and I say that becauseof the reasoning and the procedures and the -- and theconsidered exhaustive review that the Federal Circuit madein Aerojet or the Christian v. Colt case. They startedtheir Aerojet decision saying that the question was of th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC exceptional importance and, because of that, sat on theirchoice en banc. They exactly framed the question in thatcase, which was whether --QUESTION: Mr. Gowdey, may I suggest that youraise that a little higher? The podium. I'm having sometrouble hearing. QUESTION: We had the opposite problem. Thefirst counsel had a very loud voice and yours is verysoft. So --MR. GOWDEY: I -- I do have a soft voice and Iapologize. They framed the question in Christian v. Colt --in -- in Aerojet as being one where you do not have apatent issue as the complaint, but you have a patentcounterclaim coming in. And in that case, it was acompulsory patent counterclaim. Should that be asufficient basis for giving exclusive appellatejurisdiction to the Federal Circuit? They answered thatit was. The Aerojet opinion is -- is well-crafted. It'sa thoughtful opinion. It goes through analysis --QUESTION: Well, that's -- that's this CAFC'sruling on its own jurisdiction.MR. GOWDEY: That's correct. QUESTION: In the Aerojet case. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. GOWDEY: Yes. Yes, Your Honor. QUESTION: So, in effect, we're trying to decidewhether that's right in this circumstance. MR. GOWDEY: That is absolutely correct, YourHonor. They -- they looked --QUESTION: But it does seem to be unlikely, doesit not, that where the counterclaim raising the patentissue hasn't been dealt with and what we're dealing withis an appeal from this injunction which was rendered inthe plaintiff's suit below -- why should the CAFC get intoit at all?MR. GOWDEY: Because we should look atjurisdiction for an appellate court at the time of thepleading stage of the case, Your Honor. And at thepleading stage, you have the complaint and you have theanswer and counterclaims --QUESTION: I would think it would have to beconsidered also in light of what's happened in this case. I don't see why you would be so limited necessarily. Itseems so odd that this appeal would go to the FederalCircuit.MR. GOWDEY: I -- I don't think it's odd, YourHonor. I think that you have to establish appellatejurisdiction at the beginning of a case so that as a case th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC proceeds, if there are interlocutory appeals that -- thatare going to happen, where is it that they should beproperly directed? And there should not be a conundrum as-- as to that. And if you look at the claims in the case,if you look under and , talking about civilactions and claims, the jurisdiction of a Federal Circuitshould -- should be decided by what claims are pled.QUESTION: Well, what case of ours do you thinkmost strongly supports your view of this jurisdictionalquestion? MR. GOWDEY: I -- I think you have to look atChristian v. Colt and the fact that in that case, thedecision said it should be adapted to . I think theAerojet decision that comes along after that and itsexhaustive review of Christianson makes clear that -- thatyou should look at claims. And as you're adapting tothe patent situation --QUESTION: Mr. Gowdey, I -- I think Aerojetmakes a whole lot of sense if -- if the issue before the-- the court there and the issue before us here were whatmakes sense. Then -- then Aerojet may -- may well beright. But -- but it seems to me that the issue reallybefore us is what does section mean. What was itunderstood to mean when it spoke of a claim arising under th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC any act of Congress relating to copyrights and trademarks? And that's a different question. And when you have a longhistory known to every first-year law student that a casearises under a certain law, if the well-pleaded complaintinvokes that law and does not arise under that law if --if a counterclaim invokes it, I find it hard to believethat anyone would interpret the statute, written with thatmagic language, in any other way. Now, it -- it might well be the case, as youargue, that another disposition is more sensible for theFederal Circuit. But we have to deal here with whatCongress said, and the -- and the whole issue is whether aclaim arising under an act of Congress isn't magiclanguage that -- that the whole legal community has knownfor many years, which means you have to have a well-pleaded complaint invoking it. MR. GOWDEY: Well --QUESTION: And that's what I think we said inChristianson.MR. GOWDEY: Well, in Christian v. -- inChristianson, however, there was no counterclaim. That --that issue was not before the Court. That issue has notyet been addressed by this -- by this Court, which is whyI think looking at the Aerojet decision and looking at thereview that it made of Christianson is important for this th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Court to -- to undertake and to look at. There were --QUESTION: Not just Aerojet, but I would likeyou to pursue that because my understanding is the same asJustice Scalia's. You started out by saying, in responseto the Chief Justice's question, that footnote applies. I take it that means we now have an issue that does notjust concern patent law. It concerns all of Federaljurisdiction. You then said we look to what is filed in thedistrict court at the complaint stage. Again, all ofFederal jurisdiction.You then say that all these other cases involveda well-pleaded complaint and an answer. This one, though,involves a well-pleaded complaint and a compulsorycounterclaim.MR. GOWDEY: Yes --QUESTION: I agree. So, I look up Wright andMiller, and Wright and Miller says it is not sufficientfor the Federal question to enter the case as acounterclaim asserted by the defendant. Now, he didn'tjust make that up. He has dozens of citations. So, atthat point I think QED. You lose.Now, why don't you?MR. GOWDEY: Well, for the reasons set forth inAerojet. First, had the -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: Aerojet, to my way of thinking, justsaid it's a counterclaim. It's not a defense. Okay, Iaccept that. But I still have Wright and Miller and allthe cases they cite.MR. GOWDEY: And -- and I think most of thecases that I'm aware of that talk about counterclaims areremoval cases. That's where you have a -- a State/Federalissue.QUESTION: Are what -- what kind of cases?MR. GOWDEY: Removal cases, Your Honor, where --where you -- and there is no issue of federalism here. The -- the petitioner properly brought a case in -- in theFederal district court in Kansas.QUESTION: Then you're -- you're now defeatingyour first concession which was with footnote inAerojet, that we are to deal with this case exactly as ifit were a removal case because it's a question of allFederal jurisdiction, not just patent. The word isarising under. That's in fact -- I flag it because that'swhat frightens me. I thought that if all that were atissue here were patent cases, we weren't going to make abig mistake either way.MR. GOWDEY: Well --(Laughter.) QUESTION: But once you tell me that this th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC involves all cases of removal, I suddenly get quitenervous about departing from well-settled law. MR. GOWDEY: Then -- then I must retract it. Itdoes not -- it does not involve all cases of removal. This is a patent case, and -- and I think we're talkingabout patent issues and whether the Federal Circuit hasproper jurisdiction of claims in a case involving patentissues.QUESTION: Well, then that means we interpret,under your view, arising under in different ways in the --in the patent statute and in -- in the Federaljurisdiction statute. MR. GOWDEY: I -- I think that arising under isnot to be interpreted in a different way, but I think asthis Court said in Christianson, that it should be adaptedto . It should be adapted to because, under, Congress was interested in getting as many patentclaims to the Federal Circuit as it could. QUESTION: But certainly Christianson gave nointimation that the phrase, arising under, should beinterpreted differently in the statute conferringjurisdiction on the Federal Circuit as it hastraditionally been in .MR. GOWDEY: That's correct, Your Honor. QUESTION: Is there a difference in interpreting th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC a different way and adapting? MR. GOWDEY: I -- I think it's a question of --of looking at claims that are pled in a case. If -- ifyou look at the second point of Chief -- Chief JudgeMarkey in Aerojet, he was -- he was taking a -- a look atclaims. And a patent claim, as Justice O'Connor pointedout earlier, has its own separate, independentjurisdictional base under . Once you find that apatent claim comes in under with its ownjurisdictional basis, under that is an appeal-directing mechanism that Congress put into place. And -- and I think that if you go again toAerojet, as Chief Judge Markey pointed out in his firstreason for why the patent counterclaim should beconsidered arising under and give appellate jurisdiction,had that counterclaim been filed as a complaint, there'sno question that -- that Federal Circuit jurisdictionwould have been invoked. QUESTION: But that's -- you can say that byanalogy to too, that although you can have a -- acompulsory counterclaim will not change the result there. It still goes to Federal court if -- if the well-pleadedcomplaint doctrine is applied. You could say, well, thecompulsory counterclaim could have been in its own right acase of Federal question, but that doesn't change the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC rule.MR. GOWDEY: It does not change the rule. Ibelieve, Your Honor, you're talking about removal cases. And certainly if -- if you have --QUESTION: But why does it make a difference ifwe're talking about removal cases? Because the languageis exactly the same.MR. GOWDEY: Because I think in aFederal/Federal situation where there is no federalism,there is no issue with respect to States' rights andStates' claims. And -- and we're not talking about a -- areading of or where you -- where we're concernedabout somehow taking away the essence of -- of a Statecourt to deal with State court actions. And -- and we'renot talking about that. This Court does not need to, Ithink, even go there. We're talking about a situation where you have aFederal question that has been properly presented in aFederal court. Original jurisdiction has been applied. A-- a patent counterclaim comes in that has its ownseparate jurisdictional base under . The questionthen is, from an appellate standpoint, has Congress set upand dictated an appellate-directing mechanism with ? And I think they have. And they recognized when theysaid, as long as jurisdiction was based in whole or in th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC part under , that not all of the case would have to bepatent cases. It could be part of it. And once you have the nexus between a districtcourt having original jurisdiction under , directs that that appeal -- for the patent cases, directs that appeal should go to the Federal Circuit.I -- I think the basic purpose of -- of thewell-pleaded complaint rule was -- was to avoid the -- thesort of State/Federal conflicts. Since that's not here,then there is -- is no reason to say that there should bea compelled disregard of -- of counterclaims. And whereCongress' intent was to get as many patent claims aspossible to the Federal Circuit, again --QUESTION: But you -- you can say, I think, thatwhen Congress used the term, well-pleaded complaint, itsintent was to have the same sort of analysis as there isin . MR. GOWDEY: I -- I think the language is thesame. But again, going back to what this Court --QUESTION: Congress didn't use it -- Congressdidn't say well-pleaded complaint. It said -- it saidarising under.MR. GOWDEY: Yes, Your Honor. And I think, as this Court said in Christianson,by adapting that under , there are -- there is a way th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC to accomplish both the jurisdictional goals and the intentof Congress of getting patent claims --QUESTION: But you are giving arising under adifferent meaning for appellate purposes. You areincluding the counterclaim, a different meaning fromoriginal jurisdiction where, as Justice Breyer read,everybody agrees that for original jurisdiction purposes,counterclaims don't count.MR. GOWDEY: I -- I think --QUESTION: You're suggesting they do count forappellate jurisdiction.MR. GOWDEY: I'm suggesting that they do, andI'm suggesting that Congress recognized that in where-- where, unlike petitioner, I -- I think when -- when aplaintiff comes into court, clearly he has his choice of-- of what Federal court to go to, what State, and so on. Under , once you have patent claims in a case, I thinkCongress set up an appellate-directing mechanism that --that does not make it a litigant's choice. It defineswhere it goes. QUESTION: Suppose you did do that, which -- Imean, suppose you took Justice Stevens' concurring view inChristianson, which was a view that would come closer todoing what you want. It would make sense. You'd look atthe -- look at the case after it's decided in the district th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC court to see where -- whether there's a patent claim. You'd still lose here, wouldn't you? MR. GOWDEY: Well, I think Justice Stevensactually goes farther than we need to go because --QUESTION: Well, why farther? Because I wouldgo just as far as he went. You went just as far as hewent. You look at the whole thing after it's decided.MR. GOWDEY: Well --QUESTION: Now, how could you go further thanthat? MR. GOWDEY: Well, I'm saying he -- he wentfurther. He -- he's saying, I believe, that you couldeven look at -- at Federal Circuit jurisdiction being --being shown where you have amended a complaint later on,that you could get a patent issue under that -- in at thatpoint. In -- in this case here, there was a patentissue that came in at the pleading stage. And so that --that's the distinction that I -- that I would see. That'swhy I'm saying you don't have to go so far as -- as to sayyou look at the well-tried case.QUESTION: Was there patents issue adjudicatedat all here? And there was not a judgment. The judgment,the (b) judgment, was on trade dress alone?MR. GOWDEY: There has not been a patent ruling th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC yet, Your Honor. We didn't get that far. We haven't --QUESTION: So, there's not only the no judgment,but no adjudication? MR. GOWDEY: No adjudication, not even anydiscovery, Your Honor. So -- so, we have a patent -- apatent case that has, in essence, a -- a very young one,that has not gotten very far except for the fact that wehave this preliminary injunction from Judge Brown inKansas.QUESTION: I think it would be consistent withJustice Stevens' opinion to say you look to see what wasadjudicated. His concurring opinion suggests that. Andif what was adjudicated was the patent claim, whether itwere a claim or a counterclaim, then that's what shouldcount. If what were adjudicated were a trade dress claim,then that's what should count.MR. GOWDEY: , however, talks about civilactions, and civil actions goes -- goes back to adescription of being all claims for relief. We would saythat you should look for the claims that are made forrelief at the time the case is -- is being pled. That isthe point at which I think you should have appellatejurisdiction being decided so that as interim orinterlocutory appeals happens, you know appellate court itgoes to. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC If you waited until you -- you saw what wasactually tried in a case and, as Justice Stevenssuggested, you waited even to see if the -- if a complaintwould be amended subsequently after the pleading stage,earlier -- earlier disposition of interlocutory ordersmight go somewhere else, and appropriately so. QUESTION: If the district court has to decidewhich of two different circuits' laws you're going tofollow, I guess he knows what the case is going to looklike at the end -- or she. Maybe -- maybe the trial judgedoesn't because the trial doesn't know which circuit tofollow, so he doesn't know how it's going to come out. MR. GOWDEY: Well, but if -- Your Honor, if --if --QUESTION: It's a circular analysis. MR. GOWDEY: If -- if you're looking at theclaims that are pled at the pleading stage, the districtcourt judge will know what appellate court will -- willapply certainly under the Aerojet rule, which -- whichagain would -- would place appellate jurisdiction at theFederal Circuit if you have a well-pled patentcounterclaim coming in at the pleading stage as part ofthe defendant's answer.QUESTION: But you will -- you will have thesituation then in which the district judge is -- is going th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC to have to defy the law of his circuit on a -- on the non-patent issue.MR. GOWDEY: Perhaps that's a more difficultquestion. I think the Federal Circuit, being a sister --sister circuit to the rest of the regional circuit courtsof appeal, certainly would make an effort to apply theappropriate regional circuit law to non-patent issues.QUESTION: Well, the claim is -- and I -- I willbe candid to say I'm not in a position to -- to evaluatethis claim because I haven't gone back and looked at -- atmany of the cases on it to find out what's really goingon. But I mean, the claim is made that the FederalCircuit is not doing that.MR. GOWDEY: Well, I think the Federal Circuitis making an attempt to look at its -- its historical basefor decisions with respect to those issues that relate to,in effect, patent law issues. Now, the way I read casescoming from the Federal Circuit, they're making an attemptto apply law of their own where they find either there --there is conflict or where there has not been a well-grounded set of policies or law to decide an issue. Wherethe regional circuit has laws that are not affectingpatents, my reading is the Federal Circuit is applyingregional circuit law in an appropriate way as they see fitfrom panel to panel. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: That's what it used to do. You saythey -- you think it's still doing that? It's stillfollowing circuit rule on non-patent law issues?MR. GOWDEY: I think they are, and I think asthe -- the court was started in , and by -- by thatmeasure, it's a relatively young court. Aerojet has beenaround half of its lifetime since .QUESTION: Well, I understand at the timeAerojet was decided, they did that. But I thought therewas a recent -- in the last year or , they had taken adifferent view and were applying their own law as opposedto the Tenth Circuit law in this case on the non-patentlaw issues. MR. GOWDEY: Certainly in Midwest, they -- theywere -- they were taking a look at trade dress law becauseof the interrelationship trade dress has on the Lanham Actwith patent issues. To that extent, they certainly werelooking at new law and saying where there is aninteraction of laws and holdings with respect to patentissues, that that is an area that they -- they can andperhaps should get into. QUESTION: But that seems somewhat inconsistentwith the last part of (a), which in effect says thatwhen it's a non-patent law issue, they -- the and the and shall apply. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. GOWDEY: Are you talking about the exceptionof , Your Honor? QUESTION: Yes. MR. GOWDEY: Certainly that's a two-partexception, and where you have other claims pending, youcan still have jurisdiction under .QUESTION: Okay. So, now the trial judge has tosay, well, there may be two circuits involved here. Oneis my own circuit and it's not related, and so the FederalCircuit won't control, but if it's somehow related to thepatent claim, then the Federal Circuit would -- so, this-- this is a further metaphysical exercise. This -- thisis great for the legal profession actually. (Laughter.) MR. GOWDEY: It keeps all well employed, YourHonor. I -- I think that where -- where there areissues that relate to patent law, certainly they -- theywill be looking to Federal Circuit precedent to help them. Where there are non-patent law issues, it's the regionalcircuit law that can and should control. And -- and Ithink that as the court develops in time, there will be --there will be a larger body of law that -- that will helpdistrict circuit judges in that regard. As respects this case, however, where -- where th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC we have a patent counterclaim, I think the Aerojetdecision and looking at what went on before Christian --Christianson, looking at -- at the Christianson decisionitself and the analysis that that court did with ChiefJudge Markey speaking for the whole court en banc, verycarefully and thoughtfully gives a legitimate basis forwhy a Federal Circuit should have jurisdiction over caseswhere there is a well-pleaded compulsory counterclaim atthe district court level. Chief Judge Markey also noted at F.d at, in all events, the Supreme Court did hold inChristianson or in any other case that for all cases andcircumstances only the complaint and never a counterclaimcan serve as the basis of district court jurisdiction. And under section , the basis of district courtjurisdiction is for this Court an appeal-directingmechanism. And I think that's where really is -- isimportant and the interconnection with -- with .If there are no other -- no other questions, Ithank the Court.QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. Gowdey. Mr. Dabney, you have minutes remaining. REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF JAMES W. DABNEYON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERMR. DABNEY: In response to your question, Mr. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Justice Kennedy, there is no difference between differentinterpretation and adaptation. The respondent's positionwould call for this Court to retreat from Christianson andto adopt some special interpretation of arising underunique to (a) that deviates from the arising underlanguage as it was clearly adopted by Congress in .Secondly, with regard to the question of -- ofFederal Circuit choice of law, what Mr. Gowdey stood here-- I just would call -- call Your Honors' attention topage a of the joint appendix which is the districtcourt's opinion in this case in which the district courtsays, Vornado -- that's the respondent -- contends thatthis change in the law exception is met because in MidwestIndustries, the Federal Circuit expressly rejected theTenth Circuit's Vornado I holding, ruling instead that aclaim for trade dress protection was not barred by thefact that a product configuration has been claimed as asignificant inventive element of the patent. As part ofits ruling in that case, the Federal Circuit abandoned itsprior practice of applying regional circuit law onquestions involving the relationship between patent lawand other Federal law rights and said, quote, henceforth,we will apply our own law to such questions. There is no doubt whatever that the FederalCircuit has recently and radically changed how it th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC adjudicates trade dress claims, and it was the opportunityto try to take advantage of the -- of the FederalCircuit's view of trade dress protection which was beforethe Court in the TrafFix case, and rejected by the Courtin the TrafFix case, which drove the case that's currentlybefore the Court, which isn't to say that the FederalCircuit can't do that. But by doing that, whateverlegitimacy could have been before it, even as a matter ofcommon sense, Justice Scalia, in derogation of clearlyexpressed congressional intent, in , the FederalCircuit has done a degree U-turn in its approach toits choice of law in these matters. And therefore, the --a critical underpinning of the Aerojet principle has beencompletely wiped out.QUESTION: You're -- you're telling us that thisis unqualified. I think Mr. Gowdey said that therelationship language is -- that it's -- it's only in theintersection of patent law, not just any -- any questionthat comes along. MR. DABNEY: That -- it is the issue that wasbefore this Court in the TrafFix case. It is a questionof how far State law, how far Federal law can properly goin allowing a company like the respondent to claimunregistered, judge-made --QUESTION: And I don't see what the Federal th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Circuit meant when it said the relationship between patentlaw and other Federal rights.MR. DABNEY: The Federal --QUESTION: Questions involving the relationshipbetween those two. The Federal Circuit has interpretedthat to be unlimited? MR. DABNEY: The Federal Circuit has taken theposition that -- I'm sorry. My time is up. May I answerthe question? QUESTION: Yes, briefly.MR. DABNEY: The Federal Circuit has taken theposition that Federal patent law does not create any rightto copy or use anything, and therefore, it was wrong forthe Court in Midwest to say that Iowa State law could notprotect that. CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: Thank you, Mr. Dabney.The case is submitted. (Whereupon, at : p.m., the case in theabove-entitled matter was submitted.) th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC 