 IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XUNITED STATES, Petitioner ::v. : No. -WHITE MOUNTAIN APACHE TRIBE. :- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XWashington, D.C.Monday, December , The above-entitled matter came on for oralargument before the Supreme Court of the United States at: a.m.APPEARANCES:GREGORY G. GARRE, ESQ., Assistant to the SolicitorGeneral, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on behalf of the Petitioner.ROBERT C. BRAUCHLI, ESQ., Tucson, Arizona; on behalf ofthe Respondent. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC C O N T E N T SORAL ARGUMENT OF GREGORY G. GARRE, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioner ROBERT C. BRAUCHLI, ESQ.On behalf of the Respondent REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OFGREGORY G. GARRE, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioner PAGE th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC P R O C E E D I N G S(: a.m.)JUSTICE STEVENS: The Court will hear argumentin United States against the White Mountain Apache Tribe.Mr. Garre.ORAL ARGUMENT OF GREGORY G. GARREON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERMR. GARRE: Thank you, Justice Stevens, and mayit please the Court:In , Congress declared the former FortApache military post to be held in trust for the WhiteMountain Apache Tribe. The specific --QUESTION: What condition was it in in ? Was it basically like it is today, or has it gotten worse? What was it like then? MR. GARRE: Well, it -- it's certainly mucholder today. It's about years older today. Thecondition the -- the legislative history doesn't discussthe condition of the fort in particular detail. It's important to recognize that the militaryfort was built for temporary use -- today, some -- almosta century ago, and in had been built for temporaryuse, you know, more than , , or years ago. So itwouldn't at all have been surprising if there had been astate of decay in . th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC And of course, when Congress passed the statute, there was no indication at all -- certainly noton the face of the statute, or in the legislative historythat's contained in respondent's lodging -- that it had inmind a historic preservation goal, or that it had in mindthat -- that it would require the Secretary of theInterior to undertake the enormous financialresponsibility of having to restore a century-old fort.QUESTION: -- making use today of a portion ofthe structures there for the school and administrativeneeds? MR. GARRE: Absolutely, Justice O'Connor. The -- the vast majority of the buildings and historicdistrict area of Fort Apache are used today for school andadministrative purposes. The Bureau of --QUESTION: Are those maintained in some fashionfor that use by the Federal Government? MR. GARRE: They are. As we point out in note of our reply brief, the Department of the Interior hasspent more than $ million over the past decade or years on repair and maintenance projects at the fort. It's also true that the tribe itself has engaged inhistoric restoration efforts at the fort with the supportof the Bureau of Indian Affairs and the Department of theInterior, and with the assistance of private, State, and th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC even -- in some cases -- Federal tax dollars.QUESTION: Well, the U.S. Government does holdthe property in trust for the tribe -- the White MountainTribe. Right? MR. GARRE: That's true. Just like the U.S.Government --QUESTION: And what basic responsibility doesthat entail, would you say, the fact that the Governmentis a trustee? MR. GARRE: Well, when Congress places land intrust for Indians, it has two well-settled meanings thatthis Court has recognized. First, it places a restrainton the alienation of property, and second, it immunizesthe property from State taxation. And if you look atpages and of the respondent's lodging, that indicates that in , when there was discussion about what to dowith Fort Apache, the tribe itself encouraged theDepartment to have Congress place the land in trust sothat it was in a nontaxable status like the surroundingreservation lands. Now, we know from the first Mitchell decisiondecided by this Court that simply placing property intrust does not in itself create a substantive right tomoney damages. QUESTION: But there was an enormous difference th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC in that case in that the Indians managed the land. Underthe General Allotments Act, the idea was to make theindividual owner autonomous. Here, I think it's notdisputed that this land has been operated by the U.S.Government, and the U.S. Government has exclusive control.MR. GARRE: Justice Ginsburg, that -- that maybe true in the factual sense, but the act -- that is,that the Federal Government is using the property, but the act -- quite unlike the General Allotment Act --specifically reserves to the Government the right to usethe property for Government uses. And in that respect, wethink the trust relationship created by the statute inthis case is much more limited than the one that wascreated by the statute in Mitchell I, and the existence offactual Federal control cannot in itself give rise to a damages action under the Tucker Act. QUESTION: Can you just explain one small pointto -- to me? I know what "school purpose" means. What is"administrative"? Is that administrative in connectionwith the school, or some free-floating administration? MR. GARRE: Well, I -- I think generally, the"administrative use" can refer to executive uses, and is avery broad term. In that respect, I think it'sinstructive that Congress used that term. Nevertheless,I think that -- that "administrative purposes" has to be th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC read with school purposes, and can be read to refer toboth uses for storage and the like, and also foradministrative purposes used by the Bureau of IndianAffairs to undertake activities at Fort Apache or -- or onthe surrounding reservation. So in that respect, it'sadministrative for the purpose of the Department of theInterior, who operates activities there through the localagent of the Bureau of Indian Affairs. Now --QUESTION: Mr. Garre, is -- is any of the -- orlet me ask you an open-ended question. How much of theproperty which is the subject of this claim was within theGovernment's control throughout this period, and how muchof it was not? MR. GARRE: Oh, well, our position would be that the vast majority, if not all, was -- well, that's nottrue. The -- the vast majority of the property has beenwithin the Government's control, but it's important torecognize that the court of appeals' decision remands forbuilding-by-building, in a sense, trial on the existenceof Federal use and control. And the tribe does haveaccess to the Fort Apache property. The tribe is there. The tribe even has a -- a cultural museum that it operateson the property. So it's -- it's not as though this is aFederal enclave -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: Well, is the tribe making -- is thetribe making a monetary claim with respect to propertywhich it has had in its control, as distinct from theGovernment's, during this period?MR. GARRE: If you look at appendix A to thetribe's complaint, which -- which has a detailed building-by-building analysis of the ways in which the buildingdon't meet certain requirements, I think it's fair to saythe tribe's damages claim extends to all the buildings atFort Apache and that, therefore, it may extend tobuildings over which the Federal Government is not -- haveany active use or -- or control. But we don't think that a damages action can bebrought against the United States based on some fact-bound, manipulable notion of Federal control. QUESTION: No. I -- I realize that. I realizethat. MR. GARRE: Under the Tucker Act -- and thisCourt emphasized it in the Mitchell decisions, and it'semphasized it in other decisions -- a substantive right todamages against the United States -- which, after all, isa right to damages against the public fisc -- has to begrounded in a source of substantive law. QUESTION: Well, if -- can we talk just for amoment about the analogy? And we'll call it just that, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC the area of private trusts. I -- I take it that usually a trustee, who hasthe obligation to repair buildings for the beneficiariesso they don't fall into disrepair, does so at thebeneficiaries' expense. MR. GARRE: That -- that's true. QUESTION: And that -- that didn't seem tofigure into your argument. Again, it -- it struck me,as -- reading the briefs -- that that was an argument --you don't really make that argument. MR. GARRE: Well --QUESTION: Is that because the trustee here isboth the beneficiary -- is -- is a co-beneficiary of thetrust?MR. GARRE: That is true and it's much unlike the typical common law trust, but the -- the mostfundamental reason, Justice Kennedy, is we don't thinkthat a court should have to plumb through the common lawto determine whether or not Congress established a rightto damages against the United States in this case. And it's also true -- if you look at the commonlaw, the first thing you -- you're met with -- with -- iswith the general rule that you can't get breach of trustdamages against the sovereign. So you'd have to get --not only you'd have to get around the courts -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: Well, but that -- but, I mean, that'sthe whole purpose of the Tucker Act. I mean, to -- toplead sovereign immunity begs the question. That'sexactly the question before us. MR. GARRE: Well, and I agree, Justice Scalia,and we think that that question should be answered bylooking to the act of Congress on which the tribe relies,which is the act. QUESTION: Well, but it would have seemed to me,following Justice Scalia's question and my own, that ifthe law of trusts gave a clear indication one way or theother that there was a liability, then the Tucker Actanalysis might -- might be different accordingly.MR. GARRE: With respect, I disagree. And Ithink the Mitchell I case establishes that. InMitchell I, both the Court of Claims and the dissenters onthis Court reasoned that because the General Allotment Actplaced land, quote, in trust, that therefore one couldlook to the common law and therefore one could import intothe Tucker Act all the liabilities that would followagainst a private trustee, even liabilities that wouldresult in damages actions. A majority of this Courtrejected that analysis. Now, in Mitchell II, the Court specificallyaffirmed the result in Mitchell I, and it emphasized that th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Mitchell II was different because in that case, the Courthad statutes and regulations that created specificmanagement duties that could be fairly interpreted asmandating the payment of compensation for the breach ofthose duties. Now, the court of appeals recognized at page aof the petition appendix -- and the -- even the triberecognizes on page of its brief -- that the actdoesn't set forth any specific management duties on thepart of the Government. QUESTION: Do you think the Government couldhave just destroyed the property or the structures on theland? MR. GARRE: Well, I -- Justice Stevens, I thinkthat the notion that the Government would destroy the property, if it did so in a way that was clearlyinconsistent with the terms of the act --QUESTION: Let me put it another way. Do youthink they had a duty not to destroy the property? MR. GARRE: That -- that duty, if it exists,comes from ordinary tort principles and from principles ofjust compensation under the Fifth Amendment. And thoseclaims haven't been asserted in this case. This caseinvolves a breach of trust action, a claim for damagesbased on the alleged breach of trust which the tribe th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC grounds in the act, and --QUESTION: No, I understand. But part of thequestion we have is to what extent did the Governmentassume duties beyond immunizing the property from Statetaxation and preventing its alienation. Did they have anyadditional duties? And I'm not clear on whether you'vetold me they had a duty not to destroy it or not. MR. GARRE: Not under -- under the act, thestatute in this case. Now, if the Government had --QUESTION: But did they -- from any source, didthey have a duty not to destroy it? MR. GARRE: I -- I think -- I think it would,Justice Stevens. If I could respond by -- by mayberunning through some hypotheticals --QUESTION: You'd help me if you responded yes or no, to be honest with you. (Laughter.) MR. GARRE: Yes, it would under the FifthAmendment to the Constitution if Congress sold the fort tosomeone else, or if Congress destroyed the fort. Then thetribe might have a claim for just compensation. The tribehas referred to some just compensation cases in its brief,but it hasn't brought a just compensation claim in thiscase. The tribe also might seek to bring a damages th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC action under the Federal Torts Claimed Act -- Tort ClaimsAct for some kind of destruction of property. The tribehasn't brought that --QUESTION: So you are -- to this extent, you'rediffering from counsel's position before the FederalCircuit, because I believe at that level, counsel wasasked if the United States could dynamite all thebuildings to the ground with no liability to the tribe,and the answer was yes. MR. GARRE: Well, it's -- it's not clear to methe context in which that question came up. But I also think that it's true that if theSecretary decided that it was necessary to level abuilding because it proves an attractive nuisance toschool children, or because it was desirable to build a more -- newer and better educational facility at the fort,that the act would authorize the Secretary to dothat. But -- but we do recognize that there are otherprinciples in this area stemming from the Fifth Amendment,a source of substantive law, stemming possibly from theFederal Torts Claims Act, another source of substantivelaw, which aren't invoked in this case, which might beimplicated based on the Government's management of theproperty. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: Well, how about Mitchell II?MR. GARRE: Well, in Mitchell II, JusticeO'Connor, the statutes and regulations there, which --which the Court described as a pervasive, statutory schemegoverning Indian timber management, provided specificfiduciary management duties that could be fairlyinterpreted as -- as mandating payment of compensation. They -- they specifically govern the generation of profitsor proceeds for the Indian tribe, and in that case, theCourt held that the violation of those duties, grounded ina statute or regulation, gave rise to a money damagesaction under the Tucker Act. This case is --QUESTION: Well, how would -- how would youdescribe the duties the United States has as trustee withrelation to this property? How would you describe the sum total of its duties? MR. GARRE: I think the -- the principal dutiesare the ones that the Court has always recognized when itplaces land in trust: not to alienate the land and -- andit immunizes it from State taxation. QUESTION: In -- in effect, I think what you'resaying is that there are no trust duties. There's apeculiarity here. The word trust in -- as you're using itin the argument, simply has those two implications: don'tgive it away and place it in a -- in a condition or -- or, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC by virtue of the word trust, it is in a condition to avoidtaxation. MR. GARRE: Well --QUESTION: I think you're saying that there areno fiduciary duties beyond that. If there is any dutybeyond that, it's got to come from the Constitution, orit's got to come from a specific provision of -- of astatute creating a duty not necessarily as -- as that of atrustee, but simply as a statutory duty. Isn't thatcorrect? MR. GARRE: That's correct when the tribe comesinto court under the Tucker Act and asserts a claim formonetary damages against the United States Treasury. We're dealing against an area of sovereign immunity wherethe United States is immune from damages for breach of trust unless Congress --QUESTION: But I think you're saying two things,and they -- they mesh perfectly. One, you're making asovereign immunity argument. Two, you're saying there isno trust responsibility whatsoever on the part of thetrustee except not to alienate.MR. GARRE: Not enforceable in an action formonetary damages. Of course, in this area, the Court hasrecognized --QUESTION: So you are conceding that there -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC that there might be equitable remedies based on -- on atheory of fiduciary duty? MR. GARRE: It's conceivable that there would bean equitable remedy based on a violation of statute, noton equitable duties. This is -- this is a realm --QUESTION: So that if -- may -- may I just, youknow --MR. GARRE: Yes. Sorry.QUESTION: -- pursue the example that JusticeStevens used? If the Government said, days from now,we are going to blow up all the buildings, there would bea -- an -- an equitable remedy based upon fiduciary duty? MR. GARRE: I think in that situation, JusticeSouter, the tribe might be able to bring an injunction --injunctive action perhaps under the APA claiming that that use of the property, the destruction of it, would exceedthe scope of the Government's use right under the act.QUESTION: Well, is that -- I -- I don'tunderstand what you're saying. MR. GARRE: That -- that would be under statute,not on some --QUESTION: So -- so you're saying that would notbe based on fiduciary responsibility? MR. GARRE: Well -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: If -- if it exceeded the Government'suse right, what -- what other obligation -- what would bethe source of -- of a -- of an obligation if -- if it wasnot fiduciary duty? MR. GARRE: I think it could be a propertyinterest as well. I mean, we acknowledge that the --the act gives this tribe --QUESTION: But the property interest takes intoconsideration the trust relationship, doesn't it? MR. GARRE: Well, it doesn't necessarily haveto. The Court has had many cases brought by Indian tribesclaiming just compensation under the Fifth Amendment of --of property, which -- at least in some management -- someaspects would have a trust in it. Overlapping all thisarea is the notion that the Government has political and moral responsibility to the Indian tribes, and the Courthas recognized that throughout its decisions since --QUESTION: Well, but -- just -- just to putJustice Souter's question back before you -- and my own: What trust duties does the United States have in additionto not alienating the property, and making sure that it'simmune from State taxation? I think your answer is it hasno fiduciary obligations at all. There may be someobligations under the Fifth Amendment to protect property,et cetera, but as a trustee, it has no fiduciary th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC obligations other than the ones that are mentioned.MR. GARRE: The United States has generalfiduciary obligations to the Indian tribes that thisCourt has recognized. But the Court has neverrecognized -- and I think it rejected the notion in theMitchell I case that --QUESTION: Well, but do those generalobligations with reference to this property import anyduty other than the duty not to alienate and to ensurethat it's immune from State taxation?MR. GARRE: Not a duty and certainly not a dutythat's enforceable in an action for monetary damages.QUESTION: Well, I would have thought theremight well be a duty for the trustee -- the U.S.Government acting as trustee here -- not to lay waste to the property held in trust for the tribe --MR. GARRE: Well --QUESTION: -- not to affirmatively lay waste toit or -- or allow something to happen that just theordinary care would suggest should not happen.MR. GARRE: Justice O'Connor, that dutycertainly is not expressed in the terms of the statute, and -- and, of course, there are otherstatutory --QUESTION: Well, except to the extent that the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC statute does say, all right, this property, Fort Apache,is to be held by the U.S. Government in trust for thetribe. And maybe that conveys some notion, in addition tonot alienating it, not laying waste to it. Now, whetherwhat's done fits that I don't know. Maybe ordinary wearand tear isn't covered, but --MR. GARRE: I -- I don't think that thatposition would be consistent with the Court's ruling inMitchell I, where the Court rejected the notion that theuse of language, in trust, subjects the United States toall the liabilities of a private trustee.QUESTION: Well, there's a little more here thanwas true in Mitchell I. It's specific property, hold itin trust, and the Government can use it for a school oradministrative needs, but there -- there's something more than was in Mitchell I.MR. GARRE: With respect, I think that there --there's less, Justice O'Connor, that -- that Congressspecifically carved out of the trust relationship theright of the Government to use the property for theGovernment's purposes. QUESTION: Mr. Garre, there -- there is onesignificant difference, and that is the control element. Mitchell I stressed that the control was with theallottee. Mitchell II has a whole paragraph that says th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC what's key is who has control. And as I read it, it wasthat these specific instructions were an indication thatthe U.S. had exclusive control, but that the real thingwas the control, who has control of this property.MR. GARRE: But -- but there's a key difference,Justice Ginsburg, between this case and Mitchell II withrespect to the question of control. In Mitchell II, theCourt emphasized throughout its decision and -- anddiscussed the statutes and regulations in detail for morethan four pages. The control stemmed from specificstatutory and regulatory duties that were created byCongress in that case, and the Court found that theviolation of those specific duties, which could befairly -- fairly interpreted as mandating compensation,gave rise to a damages claim against the United States. In this case, the tribe can't point to a singlestatute or regulation, and the only statute it relies inthis case -- in this Court is the act that createsany --QUESTION: Well, then you're -- you're readingit differently than I have just set it out. As I take theCourt to have said control is key, and these specificregulations show that there is indeed control, that theUnited States runs the show. But the nature of thistrust, there wouldn't be any instructions. You wouldn't th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC expect there to be detailed instructions. The question iswho was in control. MR. GARRE: Well, there -- there is no specificmanagement duty in this case. Instead of the situation inMitchell I or Mitchell II, Congress gave --QUESTION: Can I interrupt with just one -- onequestion? The trust here refers not only to the land butto the improvements. Doesn't that make a difference? Ina -- in a private situation wouldn't that normally createin the -- the trustee a duty to ensure against fire, andto take care of the improvements as opposed to just barelegal title to the property? MR. GARRE: It -- it might, Justice Stevens, butI think the reference to that also is important in termsof Congress' express delegation to the Secretary the duty to use all of the trust property, the land and thebuildings, to operate an Indian school there, which isthe -- the use that -- that the property had been putsince the s.QUESTION: So in your -- in your opinion, ifthis statute had added the words, and if the Governmentdoes take control, it shall use ordinary prudence andskill to preserve the property, then they'd have a claim.MR. GARRE: It -- it certainly would be amuch -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: Is that yes or no. MR. GARRE: -- different case. QUESTION: No. Yes or no.MR. GARRE: I -- I think -- if I can analyzethat claim. I -- I think they -- they might have a claim,Justice Breyer.QUESTION: When you say might, I'm justimagining the same statute, everything that's gone on thismorning, and it says if they take control, they shall useordinary skill and prudence to preserve the property. MR. GARRE: The --QUESTION: The answer then is yes or no? MR. GARRE: Well, I think it would be no,Justice Breyer, and if I could explain why.QUESTION: It would be no even then. Then whathave we been arguing about --MR. GARRE: Well --QUESTION: -- because, I mean, everybody hasbeen asking you whether that can be implied here? And myimpression was you said yes. I mean, if it --MR. GARRE: Congress creates a number of duties. And Congress has legislative -- of course, in the area ofhistoric preservation, and it creates duties that thecourts below found are procedural in nature.QUESTION: And so if they said, and by the way, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC if in fact they take control, the trustee -- i.e., theUnited States -- has a duty when they take control to useordinary skill and prudence to preserve the property.MR. GARRE: Then the statute -- they would --they would have a specific management duty. And then thequestion --QUESTION: And so the answer is then they wouldhave -- they could -- then they'd win. Right? If it saidthat.MR. GARRE: I -- I think they might under thatsituation.QUESTION: Okay, fine. MR. GARRE: But there's a second question underthe Court's cases that the Court would have to answer it,and that's case two, and that's whether or not that specific statutory duty can be fairly interpreted asmandating the payment of compensation.QUESTION: And it adds, and indeed if theyviolate this, they have to pay a lot of money.MR. GARRE: Of -- of course, in that situation. QUESTION: Okay. Then we're all right.MR. GARRE: Of course, in that situation --QUESTION: So our issue here -- what I'm gettingat is our issue then is whether that word control impliesthose latter words -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. GARRE: Well --QUESTION: -- that were, in fact, left out.That's the question. Is that right or not? MR. GARRE: I don't think it's the questionbecause the word control doesn't appear anywhere in theface of the statute.QUESTION: I'm sorry. I -- I was reading --it's subject to the right of the Secretary of Interior touse any part of the land in improvements.MR. GARRE: Right. QUESTION: So I -- we have to decide right touse -- does that imply those words that are left out.MR. GARRE: Right. QUESTION: It didn't say he had to use it, didit? MR. GARRE: No, not at all. QUESTION: No. QUESTION: So in order to say he controlled it,you -- you would have to say he --QUESTION: I misspoke. I'm sorry to have mixedpeople up. MR. GARRE: Right. QUESTION: I meant right to use. Does it implythe words that are not there when they use it?MR. GARRE: Yes. And -- and I think -- and if I th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC could be more clear, I think that we think the Court'scases and the Tucker Act -- and -- and we think can alsolook to cases in the section context -- establishes atwo-step inquiry. First, has Congress created a specificduty on the Government's part, and second, can that dutybe fairly interpreted as mandating a payment ofcompensation breached?QUESTION: How does it work in other areas ofreal estate law, where suppose I turn my beach house overto a friend and he has a wild party and destroys it? Do Ihave a claim against him if I had no knowledge he would dosuch a thing? MR. GARRE: Conceivably you might have a tortclaim, Justice Breyer, but that's not a claim that's --QUESTION: So normally is it the case when you give or lease or give property to other people if theywreck the place, contrary to expectation, we imply intothose promises or words that they had to take reasonablecare?MR. GARRE: Possibly as a breach of a contractor a tort --QUESTION: All right. MR. GARRE: -- violation.QUESTION: If we normally do that in the law,why would we not do the same thing here where, indeed, in th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC addition to what you normally have, you have this wordtrust and special relationship? MR. GARRE: I think the Court refused to do thatin the Mitchell I case because there, the Court used thelanguage, in trust, and it refused to --QUESTION: Well, it wasn't a question of layingwaste in Mitchell I, was it? It was just a question ofnot using the land to its utmost financial benefit. MR. GARRE: Well, that's true, Justice Scalia. And --QUESTION: So the question he's asking you is --is destroying the land. You say in your -- you quote in your briefAustin on trusts to the effect that there is a fundamentaldifference between a private trust and a public trust. What -- what kind of cases is -- is that -- is thatsection referring to?MR. GARRE: Well --QUESTION: I mean, suppose I leave my -- myhouse to the City of Falls Church in trust for the peopleof Falls Church. What -- what obligations are imposed onthe City of Falls Church? MR. GARRE: I think what the -- I mean, thereyou might have a situation where the question is whetheryou could enforce obligations against a private individual th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC who left it in trust. Here we're talking about asituation where the --QUESTION: No, no. I'm talking aboutimposing -- what obligations are imposed upon FallsChurch.MR. GARRE: You could impose -- you could --QUESTION: I leave property to Falls Church intrust for the people of Falls Church or in trust for somecategory of the -- of the people of Falls Church.MR. GARRE: I think the Restatementprovisions --QUESTION: The Little League or something. MR. GARRE: -- that we referred to incorporatethe doctrine of sovereign immunity in this area, and youcould impose possibly injunctive --QUESTION: Oh, is that all that -- that Scott ontrusts was referring to, just the doctrine of sovereignimmunity?MR. GARRE: Well --QUESTION: Because if that's all he wasreferring to, you know, that's been waived by -- by thestatute here.MR. GARRE: No.QUESTION: I thought there was something quitedifferent he was referring to, that the whole nature of a th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC public trust is different from a private trust. If that'snot the case, then all of that is quite irrelevant itseems to me. MR. GARRE: I -- I think it's both, JusticeScalia, that the public trust is different in that wedon't ordinarily assume that the Government acts in allits capacities as a private trustee. And that's certainlytrue in the Indian law context. This Court -- there aremore than million acres of land that the Governmentholds in trust. If the Court assumed just by Congress'use of the word in trust, the Government had assumed allthe liabilities of -- of a common law trustee, then thatwould be an enormous potential liability that there's noindication whatsoever Congress ever agreed to assume.QUESTION: Okay, Mr. Garre. You're -- you'rearguing that you can't infer from the use of the wordtrust that all of the obligations and all of the potentialliabilities of a private trustee are carried by it. Butyour argument seems to go, if I understand it, to theother extreme, that the use of the word trust seems toimply no obligation and no responsibility unless it isfollowed by a specific delineation of what thoseresponsibilities are. And my question is -- Justice Breyer a minuteago was saying, well, what would be different if we added th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC certain words. And my question is what would we -- bedifferent if we subtracted certain words on your theory? What if the statute had not included the words, in trust? Wouldn't your argument be exactly the same? MR. GARRE: Under the Tucker Act -- and, ofcourse, the Tucker Act doesn't refer to claims for breachof trust.QUESTION: No, but would you answer my question? Wouldn't you be -- aren't you making the same argumentunder a statute that says in trust that you would bemaking under a statute that did not include the words, intrust, at all? Isn't that so? MR. GARRE: Yes. That -- that's true, JusticeSouter. But I -- I think --QUESTION: Then you -- what -- what are we to do with the usual canon of construction that we assume thatCongress does not use useless words?MR. GARRE: Those words had great effect here. They had the same effect that the words have -- thisCourt has recognized -- with respect to the alienation ofland and with respect to immunization of land to Statetaxation.QUESTION: Yes. They -- they couldn't alienateunder a statute that says the -- the land and et ceterawill be held by the United States for the tribe. Taxes th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC couldn't be levied by lesser sovereigns against lands heldby the United States under those circumstances. MR. GARRE: Those -- those --QUESTION: It seems to me that the word, intrust, means nothing.MR. GARRE: No. With respect, I would disagree. It has those two settled consequences. We know frompages and --QUESTION: But why would you not have thoseconsequences without those words? It's true if you havethose words, the consequences follow. But wouldn't theconsequences follow without the words?MR. GARRE: No.QUESTION: And if in fact that's all theGovernment -- if that's all Congress was getting at, why didn't Congress simply say that instead of using thephrase, in trust, that normally carries enormousimplications? MR. GARRE: The -- that -- that line of argumentis the argument that we think that the court of appeal --the Court of Claims made in Mitchell I and that thedissenters made in Mitchell I, and we think that themajority of the Court rejected --QUESTION: And -- and Justice Ginsburg hassuggested that maybe the -- the significance of that line th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC of argument depends on whether there was or was notcontrol. But I think --MR. GARRE: In the factual sense.QUESTION: -- on your argument, I think whatyou're telling us is that Mitchell I -- and in any eventyour argument -- has the implication that those words addabsolutely nothing. MR. GARRE: No, no, Justice Souter. That's notthe implication of our argument. They do have theaccepted meanings. The United States holds land in trust. It is immunized from State taxation. If the tribe itselfheld it or private Indians held it, it wouldn't besubject -- it would be subject to State taxation.QUESTION: What if the Government of the UnitedStates held it? MR. GARRE: Well, it does in this case, andthat's the significance of holding it in trust.QUESTION: Yes, and it -- and it would do sounder the statute if the words, in trust, weren't used.MR. GARRE: That -- that -- it also has -- inthis case it has the effect of making the lands here likethe surrounding reservation lands. And -- and again, Ithink pages and of the tribe's lodging helps to makethat point. If I could reserve the remainder of my time for th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC rebuttal. Thank you. QUESTION: Mr. Brauchli. ORAL ARGUMENT OF ROBERT C. BRAUCHLION BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTMR. BRAUCHLI: Justice Stevens, and may itplease the Court:If the Secretary of the Interior had never takencontrol of these buildings, we would not be here. Itwould be a -- a bare trust. Simply putting thesebuildings in trust does not create any fiduciaryobligations. But the Secretary did take control. It's notmandatory; it's voluntary. And that's why this case isexactly like Mitchell II. In Mitchell I, there's no nexusbetween the General Allotment Act and managing a forest. But when you look at the forest management statute,there's a direct nexus from the forest management statutesto control of the forest, and when you control the forest,to the exclusion of the tribe, then you are responsible asa fiduciary.QUESTION: But the control -- the control herewas not control given for the benefit of the tribe. Tothe contrary, it was control given for the United States'own use. It seems to me that's -- that's quite different. I agree that if -- if you -- you say the United States th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC shall control it for the benefit of -- of the tribe, youmight have a different case. But that's not what thisstatute said. It said the United States shall control itfor its -- its use, running an Indian school and so forth.MR. BRAUCHLI: Justice Scalia, I respectfullydisagree. QUESTION: Administrative purposes. MR. BRAUCHLI: The -- the benefit to thetribe -- Congress stripped the United States of all feesimple, absolute title and gave percent beneficialtitle to the tribe. The United States has no retention ofownership whatsoever. They have a use easement, andthat's all they have. A very limited right. And thebenefit is what Congress said, and Congress said, we'regoing to take this fort, which we established to kill Apaches and imprison them, and we're going to give it tothe White Mountain Apache Tribe. And they gave it, and ithas value. It has buildings. It has , acres. Nowit's only -- you know, we're down. We're talkingabout acres. QUESTION: I thought the fort was to protectwhite settlers. But you -- you know, you can describe itthe way you like. MR. BRAUCHLI: Well, it was to protect whitesettlers -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: Okay.MR. BRAUCHLI: -- but from my clients'viewpoint, it was established to conquer them. So that'swhat I'm here for, my client.QUESTION: Yes, I understand.MR. BRAUCHLI: And there was a benefit. Andthe -- the benefit said -- it's been postponed because theUnited States Secretary reserved a very limited right touse it for a school --QUESTION: I -- I want to make I understand yourargument. If the Government had, after this statute wasenacted, said, you know, we really don't have any interestat all in these buildings, and just let them go to waste,but they didn't use them in any way, there would be noliability? MR. BRAUCHLI: Absolutely none. BeforeMarch , , they could have --QUESTION: Why? I mean, what -- what kind of atheory is that? If -- if the Government occupies thebuildings and -- and by that preserves them in a smallsense, they're falling apart, but at least it's betterthan a complete -- complete abandonment, they're liable,but if they completely abandon them, they're not. I -- Ijust don't understand that. MR. BRAUCHLI: Justice Kennedy, if I understood th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC your question, I thought you meant before March , when they owned it --QUESTION: No, no. I mean after .MR. BRAUCHLI: Oh.QUESTION: I thought your initial argument wasthat after , once the Government took control by,i.e. -- by that I thought you meant possessing thebuildings --MR. BRAUCHLI: Occupying. QUESTION: -- it had a duty, but that if it hadnot possessed the buildings or occupied the buildings, itwould have no duty.MR. BRAUCHLI: Yes, that is true. That's whatI'm saying. The -- the fact is that they occupied --QUESTION: I -- I just don't understand that. MR. BRAUCHLI: They occupied and physicallycontrolled the buildings. If -- for instance, we are notfiling a claim for the four buildings. There's only buildings out of being used for a school right now. The -- four. And so we're not filing a claim for those,and they just -- they just sprang for and a half milliondollars to fix those up. But the other buildings thatthey have used and occupied and destroyed and -- andsome -- they've demolished four -- those are the buildingsthat we have a claim for. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC And we say we're not charging you for trespass. We're not charging you for reasonable wear and tear,but --QUESTION: Well, since , did the U.S. usesome of the buildings other than it's now using?MR. BRAUCHLI: Yes, and the reason that theyhave fallen off from use is because the enrollment wentfrom students down to about .QUESTION: Well, if there are buildings onthe premises, how many did the Government use since ?MR. BRAUCHLI: The Government used all of thebuildings. They physically occupied them. QUESTION: All of them. MR. BRAUCHLI: Yes. QUESTION: Physically occupied all ? MR. BRAUCHLI: Yes, they did, and they used themfor storage and for schools.QUESTION: Since .MR. BRAUCHLI: Yes. And so it's been under theexclusive control. But as --QUESTION: And now it physically occupies ofthe .MR. BRAUCHLI: Four for school and about six forits administrative use.QUESTION: Mr. Brauchli, would you give me your th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC view on the hypothetical that I asked your -- yourcolleague on the other side? Suppose I leave property tothe City of Falls Church. The City of Falls Church takespossession. It's not occupied by anybody else. Andit's -- it's in trust for the people of Falls Church. TheCity of Falls Church takes possession. It doesn't doanything with the land. It just leaves it there. Now, inthe law of trusts, that -- that would be wasteful, and thetrustee would have to use the land in order to generateincome for the people of Falls Church, or at least dosomething for the people of Falls Church. Do you think the City of Falls Church would bein breach of trust? Do you know of any lawsuits againstcities or any public entities that -- that have acceptedland or other property in trust?MR. BRAUCHLI: If -- if the land is being -- asI understand the question, you -- you are leaving this toFalls Church and as a beneficiary --QUESTION: It's a lot. It's a great big lot,and I say, you know, I'd like to leave it to the City ofFalls Church and I do. And the City of Falls Churchdoesn't do anything with it, just leaves it there. Itcould have built a -- you know, an apartment building andgotten a lot of income for the city coffers. It couldhave built a baseball diamond or whatever. It just leaves th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC the lot there.MR. BRAUCHLI: That is not our situation --QUESTION: Is that a lawsuit? MR. BRAUCHLI: I don't know because --QUESTION: Well, but that's crucial to your casehere --MR. BRAUCHLI: I don't --QUESTION: -- it seems to me. MR. BRAUCHLI: Well, I don't think --QUESTION: I think it goes to the point ofwhether a public trust is the same thing as a privatetrust.MR. BRAUCHLI: Well, this is a private trust. I think this is a private trust, and it's not a publictrust. But it's --QUESTION: Even if it were, I guess the realanalogy would be it goes to the City of Falls Church to beheld in trust for the public to be used as a school for aslong as they want it, and thereafter to go to thearcheological society for preservation. And now they runit down as a school, and the question would be can thearcheological society now sue them for the loss. I don'tknow. Maybe it can. QUESTION: Well, this -- this doesn't say thatit goes to the archeological society -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: It goes to the tribe.QUESTION: -- or that it goes to the Indiansafterwards. It just says, in trust.MR. BRAUCHLI: Justice Scalia, I think you'resaying that -- you're talking about a situation where thebeneficiary doesn't do anything with the property. Ifthe -- if the -- I think the analogy would be -- thatyou're making is if the White Mountain Apache Tribe didnothing to their property. Then that's their choice. Butif you as the trustee went in there and destroyed theproperty that you were going to give to the --QUESTION: I'm not talking about destroying it.MR. BRAUCHLI: -- beneficiary of Falls Church,that's our situation. QUESTION: Yes. I'm putting destroying it aside. I'm -- I'm just saying that the City of FallsChurch doesn't do anything with it. It does not do what atrustee would normally have to do, and that is produceincome from it, or -- or use it in -- in some way thatwill benefit the -- the cestui que trust. Okay? It justleaves it fallow.MR. BRAUCHLI: And they're a trustee.QUESTION: And -- and I don't know of anylawsuits in which in such a situation a citizen could say,you know, I'm -- I'm a citizen of Falls Church, and you th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC are wasting my -- my trust estate. QUESTION: No. I don't even know of one thatsays I have my forest which I leave to the people of FallsChurch, and lo and behold, years later, that forest isa wreck. They cut every tree. And I don't know if thecitizens of Falls Church can sue there either, but I knowthe Indians can.MR. BRAUCHLI: I don't -- I think there's adifferent -- there's -- this Court unanimously last termin the Klamath case said that the fiduciary relationship,the trust relationship, between the United States and thetribes is the primary cornerstone of Indian law. It was aunanimous opinion. There's a special trust relationshipbetween the Indian people and the United States Governmentand when the United States --QUESTION: But does that -- does that extend toa requirement that the United States spend its moniesrather than the tribe's monies to preserve the land? Suppose in this case that some basic erosion systems wereneeded because the land was eroding, endangering the --the topography, and some simple irrigation rivulets or --or drainage rivulets would -- would save the property. Would the United States have the obligation to performthose -- those repairs?MR. BRAUCHLI: Yes. Yes, they do. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: At its expense?MR. BRAUCHLI: Yes. QUESTION: What -- what authority do you havefor that?MR. BRAUCHLI: Because they --QUESTION: That's -- that's certainly not a -- atrustee doesn't have the duty to repair at his own expensein -- in a private trust.MR. BRAUCHLI: Well, this is not a -- I -- theUnited States, if they are -- the beneficiary is thetribe, and I think when you have a trustee in control andoccupying, they -- according to the treatises I read --read, there's an absolute obligation to protect andpreserve the beneficiary. QUESTION: Not at the trustee's own expense. That's the point. The -- the trust itself has to providethe means, the -- the financial wherewithal to make thoserepairs. This isn't a duty financially imposed on thetrustee.MR. BRAUCHLI: Well, I just disagree with that. When the United States is the trustee --QUESTION: Well, you'd have to have someauthority. You may disagree, but how -- how do you findit out of trust law? MR. BRAUCHLI: Okay. My authority is the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Mitchell II which was a waste case as well as a benefitscase because in that case, there was a requirement tomanage the forest on a sustained yield basis, and if --QUESTION: All right. If your --QUESTION: Waste -- waste is different. QUESTION: If your answer to me --QUESTION: Waste is different from doingsomething that costs money, and the money has to come fromsomewhere. And -- and do you think the United Statescould sell off a piece of this to private hands in orderto obtain the money to renovate these buildings?MR. BRAUCHLI: No, but they did appropriatemoney --QUESTION: So you're -- you're urging then thatordinary trust law does not apply in the case of a public trust.MR. BRAUCHLI: Well, I think that the trustrelationship between the United States and Indian tribesis sui generis. QUESTION: Okay.MR. BRAUCHLI: You cannot import the common lawwholesale into a -- this type of situation. QUESTION: Based on your answer you gave to meabout the hypothetical about the erosion occurring, it --it would seem to me that if the United States has an th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC affirmative duty in that case, the fact that it occupiedor didn't occupy the buildings does not alter its duty tokeep those buildings in repair. Its occupancy and use hasnothing to do with the case --MR. BRAUCHLI: Well --QUESTION: -- because in my hypothetical theydidn't occupy or use the land.MR. BRAUCHLI: Well, the complaint is for -- fordamage to the infrastructure for failure to keep up the --the water and sewer system, the electrical system, as wellas the buildings that they used and controlled. They hadtotal, exclusive control.QUESTION: But if they didn't -- in JusticeKennedy's question, if the United States didn't use it foradministrative and school purposes, then the United States, under the terms of the trust, has no right to holdit because they have this exclusive right of occupancyonly for those purposes. And if they just let the -- thenit would be -- wouldn't it belong to the tribe?MR. BRAUCHLI: It expires and they -- they saidthat in the court of appeals below that the -- the circuitjudges said, well, can you use it as a uranium dump? Andthe Department of Justice said, no, because that would bea breach of the trust because we're only allowed to use itfor school or administrative purposes. Therefore, a th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC uranium dump would be outside the use allowed. I think waste is a use outside what Congressallowed them, and it's a specific use and it should beconstrued against the easement. The easements are notwide open.QUESTION: Yes, but I'm not sure you confrontthe question, and I'm not sure what the answer is. If thewaste -- duty to protect waste requires spending somemoney, whose money do you spend? The trustee's or thetrust's? The beneficiary's money or the trustee's money? If you buy an insurance policy, does the trustee pay forout of his own pocket or out of trust assets?MR. BRAUCHLI: Well, I think in this case theUnited States was obligated to prevent the deterioration. All they have to do is repair -- they have basketball-sized holes in the roof letting rain in whichprogressively deteriorates -- deteriorates the property.QUESTION: Could the United States have usedtrust assets to perform that duty?MR. BRAUCHLI: I think they should use their ownassets since they're using it rent-free, and they shouldprotect the property because they have --QUESTION: You're saying they should use it. Could they -- in your judgment, could the United Stateshave used trust assets to perform that duty? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. BRAUCHLI: Yes, the United States' assets. I'm -- are you -- I'm not --QUESTION: That's not my question. MR. BRAUCHLI: Oh, you mean the trust assets. You mean the buildings themselves? I don't -- well, theyhave collected rents --QUESTION: Could they cut --MR. BRAUCHLI: -- for some of the buildings.QUESTION: Could they cut down some trees andsay, we're going to sell off some timber because we've gotto raise some money to fix the roof? Would that have beena -- a legitimate use of the property?MR. BRAUCHLI: Of the tribe's timber?QUESTION: Yes. MR. BRAUCHLI: I would say they cannot do that without the tribe's permission.QUESTION: So it's literally got to come out ofa pocket of the National Government which has no relationto the tribe's assets is what you're saying. MR. BRAUCHLI: That's what I'm saying.QUESTION: Suppose you -- you rent -- it'srather interesting. I mean, suppose -- suppose that thetrustee -- this were an ordinary trust, but the trusteewas giving it to a third party to use, which he'd have theright to do under the trust. And the third party didn't th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC repair the basketball-sized holes in the pavilion. How dowe decide if it's that third party's responsibility, or iftrust assets should have been used? I mean, here I'mthinking that --MR. BRAUCHLI: Well --QUESTION: -- the trustee is both the trusteeand the third party himself because he's using it for hisown purposes.MR. BRAUCHLI: Well, under landlord and tenantlaw, the tenant would certainly be liable for the waste,and this Court said that in the Bostwick case. QUESTION: Would the tenant have to repair theholes in the roof? MR. BRAUCHLI: The tenant would be responsible. Any lease of tribal property by a -- a tenant, the -- the duty is to the United States as well as the tribe. Andthe United States under the leasing regulations has anabsolute duty to go in there and protect the -- to protectthe value of the property -- and I put that in my brief --the value of the property from a tenant who's injuringthat property. So here they're saying we're like atenant, but we can commit all the waste we want to.QUESTION: What precisely are you asking for? You said -- you started to say something, and then youwere asked a question. You said you're not asking for th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC wear and tear. What is the measure of the damagesyou're --MR. BRAUCHLI: I think the measure of damageswould be against the measuring stick of a reasonabletrustee in like circumstances in total control of thetrust corpus of his beneficiary. And I'm saying it's thatamount of damages necessary to bring it up to code, lessreasonable wear and tear. QUESTION: So it would be -- that -- that wouldbe the -- million-dollar figure to bring it up to code?MR. BRAUCHLI: Well, that was been alteredbecause the tribe has engaged in a little self-help, andwe actually took over five -- five buildings, and we had agrant from the White House Save America's Treasures andthe National Endowment of the Humanities and the State of Arizona, and the tribe put million of their own dollars. So I think that figure is more like $ million, andthat's --QUESTION: But you're still -- what you'retalking about is what it would cost to bring this up tohistoric building preservation level?MR. BRAUCHLI: Not necessarily. Its just a --when you have -- not -- we're not talking about restoringit. We're talking about rehabilitating the buildings andyou can keep its historic character and make modifications th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC to it. We're not talking about restoring it and making itinto a theme park like the Government suggests. We'retalking about bringing it up to code. You can make somemodifications to it. The -- the standards are -- the Secretary'sstandard says if you're going to have properties listed onthe National Register of Historic Properties, you can makemodifications, but you have to keep the historiccharacter. You can upgrade the electricity. You canrepair the roofs. And actually the code is a lot more laxthan the Uniform Building Code. The --QUESTION: What -- what is this code? Is it agenerally applicable code about things like electricwiring and -- and sound roofs, or --MR. BRAUCHLI: Well, the Bureau of Indian Affairs usually uses the General Services Administrationand the Uniform Building Code or the Uniform Code ofBuilding Conservation. That's what the National ParkService --QUESTION: But is that what you --MR. BRAUCHLI: Yes. QUESTION: Is that what you're referring to --MR. BRAUCHLI: Right. QUESTION: -- when you say, the code? MR. BRAUCHLI: Right. And their assessment, the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC BIA's assessment, in came out within a few hundredthousand dollars of our assessment of the -- of the costto make the repairs which they had deferred maintenancebasically for years in some buildings.QUESTION: Mr. Brauchli --MR. BRAUCHLI: Yes. QUESTION: -- I'm -- I'm confused about -- aboutthese buildings that -- that have basketball-sized holesin the roof. The Government is still using thesebuildings?MR. BRAUCHLI: No, they have not. Because ofthe deferred maintenance, those buildings are boarded up.QUESTION: Well, then they're not using themanymore. So I mean, you can't argue --MR. BRAUCHLI: Right, and that's --QUESTION: -- that they have -- if they're notusing them, you can't say that they're in control of them,and that their being in control requires them to make therepairs. I mean, it --MR. BRAUCHLI: No.QUESTION: Under -- under the -- under thestatute, they're not required to use the buildings. Theymay use the buildings. If they're no longer using them,and they have basketball hole -- size -- -sized holes inthe roof, it seems to me you have to come up with some th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC theory other than the Government's continuing controlwhich imposes upon the Government the obligation to repairthe buildings.MR. BRAUCHLI: Let me clarify something. QUESTION: All right.MR. BRAUCHLI: The -- the buildings -- when theneed expires, their right to be there expires. I'mtalking about the -- the boys' dorm now. That's thebasketball-sized holes in the roofs. We made a demand. The tribe made a demand forthe return of buildings. They said, you no longer needthem. Give those buildings back to us. Your -- yourright to be there has expired, but you give us the moneyfor the -- to repair those because they're notinhabitable. They used to be. Our experts -- we've spent a lot of money. We have photographs from . We knowthey were in very good shape in .QUESTION: And what did the Government say? Youcan't have the buildings, or you can't have the money? MR. BRAUCHLI: They said -- oh, they -- theywant to give us the buildings.QUESTION: Okay.MR. BRAUCHLI: They said, you can't have themoney.QUESTION: Well, that's exactly right, it seems th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC to me, if the only theory on which they're obliged torepair them is that they're in control of them. They'resaying, you know, we're not using them anymore. We don'twant to repair them. If you want them, they're yours andyou can repair them.MR. BRAUCHLI: They don't own them, and underMitchell II, this Court said that when the United Statesis in control of a -- of a resource of a tribe, a -- afiduciary relationship is established in respect to thatresource. QUESTION: No, but isn't your argument thatthey -- I -- I'm not saying whether you win or lose on it,but isn't your argument that they are obliged to give usthe money to repair them because the deterioration tookplace when they were in control? MR. BRAUCHLI: Yes. QUESTION: Isn't that your point?MR. BRAUCHLI: That is my point which I did notapparently express very well, but that is the pointthat --QUESTION: You mean they -- they were stillusing those buildings when the -- when the basketball-sized holes in the roofs appeared?MR. BRAUCHLI: They were using the buildings asthe progressive -- it's not a Big Bang Theory about a th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC building falling down. (Laughter.) MR. BRAUCHLI: It's -- it's a progressivedeterioration of the buildings. And then when they feltthat -- they just started to board them up, and -- and wesaid, okay, we'll take -- they said -- well, actually,they wrote a letter, said they're yours. And we said,what do you mean they're -- they're ours? With an$ million repair bill and you had total control, and youfeel you have the right to destroy property that you don'town?And this deprives Congress of the benefit thatCongress intended. So here's the executive branch saying,we don't care what Congress gave you. We'll make sure youdon't get anything except a -- a pile of rubble. Andsomeone has got to pay for that, and the tribe should notpay for that. And that's the point of the damage claim. We went to the Secretary and they said -- aftera year of wasting my time at the solicitor's office, theysaid -- finally, the Special Assistant to the Secretarysaid, you're going to have to sue us because we're notgoing to give you the money, and we feel we have the rightto destroy this property. And that's -- whether it'sdemolition by neglect or, as the Department of Justicesaid in the circuit court below, since you don't have th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC title to this property, contrary to the plain text of theact, we have the right to dynamite it. And somehow it's been held in some kind ofpurgatory state where what Congress intended to give tothe tribe wasn't really intended to give to the tribe. It's a -- it's a plaything for the BIA to play with anddestroy. And that's not the fiduciary relationship thatthis Court has been noted for in -- in respect to a one-on-one relationship. In Nevada versus United States, wesaid, when it's one on one, a fiduciary relationship andthere's a fiduciary obligation incumbent upon the UnitedStates when it deals with Indian people. QUESTION: Mr. Brauchli --QUESTION: What about --QUESTION: -- can I ask this factual question? I should know, but I really don't. How long ago did theGovernment's active use of the buildings cease?MR. BRAUCHLI: It is different depending on thebuilding, and that's why we say we have to gobuilding-by-building. And they have raised the statute oflimitations. They said, your claim is premature, in -- inthe trial court. Then, in the circuit court they said,it's -- no. They said it's -- you're too late. Youdidn't -- the statute of limitations will bar your claim. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC So that's still lingering out there. Then, in the -- then in the circuit court ofappeals they said, it's not in trust, and therefore we candynamite it. Then, in their briefs here they say, we controleverything and your claim is premature. So they have shifting defenses. Different buildings, because they didn'tmaintain them, they started sloughing off one-by-onebecause they --QUESTION: Do you have a theory on when theiractive use of the buildings ceased?MR. BRAUCHLI: It's -- it goes -- it really doeshave to go by building-by-building because I would saythat --QUESTION: Give me any building. Was it years ago? Five years ago? MR. BRAUCHLI: -- in the last , . The last years have been progressive, where they started boardingthem up and just stopped --QUESTION: And your theory is that the -- thewaste occurred before or after they ceased using some --or some of each? MR. BRAUCHLI: It's -- it's some of each. It'sa deteriorating use. We don't ask them to restore th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC pre- condition. We're saying take the condition,and the waste you committed from when it's under yourcontrol. We don't want them to -- they don't have torestore it back to its -- as they say -- Old West shape. We're just asking it -- for the condition that when we gotit from Congress, Congress said, here's the gift. Here isthe Fort Apache, but we're going to give the Secretaryjust a limited use, and when that need expires, then theSecretary has no right because but for that act, theSecretary can't even set foot on that property. It'strespass. QUESTION: Well, is it -- let -- may I also getclear on something that I -- I thought I was clear on butI'm not. Is it your theory that they are responsible forthe waste or damage or deterioration that took place up to the point at which they ceased actively to use it, or upto the point at which they relinquished control over it toyou? Because I take it those -- for some buildings --will be different -- different dates.MR. BRAUCHLI: Yes. There's -- they maintainthat they relinquished some buildings and therefore it'sbarred by the statute of limitations.QUESTION: No. But what is your theory? Is itthat their responsibility is measured by the date at whichthey ceased to use, or the date at which they relinquished th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC control to you? MR. BRAUCHLI: It was the date when theyrelinquished control and we accepted it because we refusedto accept them without the money to repair them. QUESTION: Okay.MR. BRAUCHLI: And they're --QUESTION: So you're saying during part of theperiod in which the -- the property was just boarded up,their responsibility was still in effect. MR. BRAUCHLI: Yes, because they still kept themon their facility inventory maintenance list, but theydidn't get -- they get the maintenance money and they useit for other things other than the --QUESTION: Suppose in -- suppose in theGovernment said, here are the buildings. We don't wantthem. And you said, well, you know, it's -- it's going tocost us a lot of money to keep up these buildings. You'regoing to have to pay for that. We can't do that. Couldthe Government then say, well, we have a stand-off, we'lldestroy them?MR. BRAUCHLI: Are you talking about afterMarch th, or before --QUESTION: This is after the act wasenacted and they had become the trustee.MR. BRAUCHLI: If they never physically occupied th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC those buildings or they stopped using them, it's not theirliability. If they walked away from the property in -- onMarch th, , they said, Hey, Congress just gave thisto you. We've been using them but we're going to walkaway today. No responsibility. None. Because when theywere the owner, they can do whatever they want. When thetribe becomes the owner and they -- they take control ofthe trust corpus, then there's an obligation, the mostfundamental, rudimentary, crude fiduciary duty as to --QUESTION: Can -- can the Government terminatethis trust anytime it wants? MR. BRAUCHLI: Pardon?QUESTION: Can the Government terminate thistrust anytime it wants by executive order? MR. BRAUCHLI: No, it cannot because the executive branch does not have the power to terminate thisreservation. Only Congress can. QUESTION: That's -- that's what I thought. Thetrust remains in effect at all times.MR. BRAUCHLI: But it's -- it'd be only a baretrust, Your -- Your Honor, because if -- once they -- oncethey relinquish the control and the need is not there,their liability ends. You know, we have taken over thecook's cabin. We've taken over four buildings. Theirliability is going to end there because we took them over. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC We had to use some self-help.QUESTION: What -- what of the Government'sargument that this was really an illusory trust? That is,the statute, the statute, gave the Government theright to use this for -- for school and administrativepurposes as long as they wanted to. So at -- looking atit from , that could be forever. They might havewanted to use it as a school forever, and then the tribewould have nothing.MR. BRAUCHLI: Well, the -- to answer thatquestion, Your Honor, the measure of damages always couldbe measured against a reasonable trustee. If they keptusing for years, then of course, there's going to benormal -- you know, even normal wear and tear, but there'sstill -- that's something for the trial court to sort out as to the measure of damages. I mean, what isreasonable -- what is reasonable to repair, what isreasonable not to under the circumstances. That's --that's a question for the trier of fact as to the measureof damages.But, you know, the reality of the situation isthat the need has expired except for about buildings.In this -- I mentioned the Bostwick case becausein the Bostwick case, the United States had open, freeuse -- unrestricted use of a private home, and they -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC they committed waste. And there was -- and this Court --Court -- they were sued. The United States was sued andthe Court said that there's an implied covenant againstwaste even those the lease is silent as to that duty. AndI think the analogy is here in the trust situation. When -- when -- it doesn't matter if the statute doesn'tsay you have to repair buildings when you're using them. It would be unnatural for a statute to say so.That's all I have, Your Honor. QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. Brauchli.Mr. Garre, you have minute left.REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF GREGORY G. GARREON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERMR. GARRE: Thank you, Justice Stevens. May itplease the Court:The Government is not using the property, and isnot required to use the property for the benefit of thetribe as the court of appeals acknowledged at page a ofthe appendix to the petition. It's using the property forits own Government purposes, and in that respect, thiscase is completely unlike Mitchell II, where the statutesand regulations specifically required the Government tomanage the property as an economic resource for theIndians.There are no trust assets to pay for any th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC historic restoration efforts because Congress directedthat the property would be used for Government purposes,not for any -- any kind of economic purposes that wouldgenerate assets. Congress has a separate regime forhistoric preservation. It grants millions of dollars eachyear for historic preservation projects, and asMr. Brauchli alluded, Congress has granted funds forhistoric reservation at Fort Apache. The tribe hasengaged in its own historic preservation efforts therewith millions of dollars of private, State, and Federalfunding, and the Department of the Interior has putmillions of dollars of its own maintenance and repairefforts into the fort.Thank you very much. JUSTICE STEVENS: Thank you, Mr. Garre. (Whereupon, at : a.m., the case in theabove-entitled matter was submitted.) th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC 