 IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XJOSEPH MASSARO, Petitioner ::v. : No. -UNITED STATES. :- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XWashington, D.C.Tuesday, February , The above-entitled matter came on for oralargument before the Supreme Court of the United States at: a.m.APPEARANCES:HERALD P. FAHRINGER, ESQ., New York, New York; on behalfof the Petitioner.SRIKANTH SRINIVASAN, ESQ., Assistant to the SolicitorGeneral, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; onbehalf of the Respondent. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC C O N T E N T SORAL ARGUMENT OF HERALD P. FAHRINGER, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioner ORAL ARGUMENT OFSRIKANTH SRINIVASAN, ESQ.On behalf of the Respondent REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OFHERALD P. FAHRINGER, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioner PAGE th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC P R O C E E D I N G S(: a.m.)CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: We'll hear argumentfirst this morning in Number -, Joseph Massaroversus The United States.Mr. Fahringer.ORAL ARGUMENT OF HERALD P. FAHRINGERON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERMR. FAHRINGER: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court:We urge that the appropriate rule for theresolution of ineffective assistance claims of counselguaranteed by the Sixth Amendment to the United StatesConstitution is best handled in a collateral proceeding inthe first instance, without first resorting to direct appeal and, if that claim might qualify for direct appeal,it should not be a procedural bar.QUESTION: What is the source of -- of law forour decision? Is it our supervisory powers, whatever wethink best, or --MR. FAHRINGER: Well, certainly, Your Honor,that is implicated, your supervisory powers. I also thinkthat under the Fifth Amendment, which has often beenconstrued to contain the equivalent of equal protection ofthe law, that this is a circumstance, with the division in th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC the circuit, that calls out for uniformity.QUESTION: Well, you -- you're saying that ifthere's a circuit different, there's a denial of equalprotection of the law under the Fourteenth Amendment?MR. FAHRINGER: In this circumstance, YourHonor, and I'm not urging the Fourteenth Amendment. WhatI'm urging is, you have in the past had this circumstancewith, for instance, the Wade hearings, where it was deemednecessary that you unify the system in the country so thatthere is the equal protection, particularly in an area asimportant as criminal prosecution. Certainly, we wouldall agree that the -- the most important right a defendantpossesses in a criminal proceeding is the right toeffective assistance of counsel --QUESTION: Well, you know, that's why we grant certiorari in cases, because we don't think one -- onerule should be -- obtained in New York and another rule inNew Orleans, but I don't think we ever thought it was theEqual Protection Clause that --MR. FAHRINGER: Well, Your Honor, if -- if I'veoverstated, that I apologize, but certainly under yoursupervisory powers, I think that this case calls forunity.QUESTION: We could unify it the way that youdon't want. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC MR. FAHRINGER: Well, I -- I appreciate that,Your Honor. I -- I would urge that it is -- it lends someforce to our argument up here that certainly a majority ofthe circuits and the highest courts of States haveembraced the collateral review, and -- and the reason --QUESTION: Well, let -- would -- would itever -- would the basis for an inadequate assistance ofcounsel claim ever be apparent on the trial court recordwithout resort to extrinsic evidence?MR. FAHRINGER: I don't think so, Your Honor. Ithink that --QUESTION: Never?MR. FAHRINGER: -- it -- there may be one, onerare case, but -- as Judge Easterbrook in the SeventhCircuit said so eloquently, and that is that in the --because of the unique nature of the ineffective assistanceof counsel, because of the relationship between theattorneys, and the -- and so much is a matter of omissionand the confidential relationship that he stated in everycase there is something that you could do to add to therecord that might reinforce the claim. The SecondCircuit, most respectfully, Your Honor, has said that onlyin a very few cases would it be completely clear on therecord.The other reason that I think this rule is th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC superior to the procedural default rule is that it wouldbring certitude to this area, where people would know withsome degree of confidence that it should be brought in acollateral proceeding. It has the element of efficiency,in that it brings together in the proceeding all ofthe ineffectiveness claims, so they can be resolved in anadversary hearing, which is certainly the best method ofraising these claims, particularly when you need a fullrecord.QUESTION: Is your position that it's only,or that it is the new counsel's option whether he thinksit's appropriate to raise the ineffective assistance claimon direct appeal, or whether he thinks it's best to waituntil the stage?MR. FAHRINGER: Yes.QUESTION: Or are you saying he can't bring itearlier, even if he thinks that --MR. FAHRINGER: No, Your Honor, I think itshould be an option. I don't think we can ever stop adefendant from raising it on direct appeal if he makesthat choice. He -- he assumes the risk, then, mostrespectfully, that he -- it -- it will be resolved,whether he could have expanded the record or not, butmy -- my suggestion to the Court is, and I think logicsupports me in this respect, that with the collateral th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC available to him proceeding, that certainly theoverwhelming majority of cases would be brought in thatforum.QUESTION: But there's something to be said forwinding the thing up and getting it over with, isn'tthere?MR. FAHRINGER: But those fears, Your Honor,that were expressed in Frady, for example, have not beenpretty much put to rest by AEDPA, because now you have astatute of limitation, so that these are not going to goon and on. As a matter of fact, if you --QUESTION: If you -- if you have a choicebetween two proceedings and one proceeding, certainlythere's something to be said for one proceeding, althoughyour argument is that one proceeding simply isn't as effective as two, but I think you have to recognize thatall things being equal, it would be better having oneproceeding than two.MR. FAHRINGER: And -- and that one proceeding,Your Honor, I -- I understand with the exception of anindividual choice that one proceeding really should be the. What I might say, as an example to this Court,think of the dilemma a defense lawyer faces in the SecondCircuit where one, if he sees evidence of ineffectivenessbut it's not fully developed, and he doesn't raise it th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC because he doesn't think he's obliged to, there's a riskof procedural default.If he does raise it and it's not been fullydeveloped, it may be resolved by the court on a partialrecord, whereas if he'd been in a proceeding, hecould have expanded and amplified the record, which wouldhave strengthened the claim.The third option is, that the Second Circuitseems to direct is, raise it at the earliest possiblemoment, identify it, and then perhaps we will send it backfor remand. Well, that, that seems to just complicate thematter.And then finally, Your Honor, I think one of themost compelling arguments, which the Solicitor Generalagrees with, that this would put an end to needless expenditure of judicial resources on resolving the -- thecause and prejudice rule. Remember, in a circuit like theSecond Circuit, every single man, woman that goes into a proceeding because they have this direct appeal ruleas an exception must establish cause and prejudice at thethreshold.QUESTION: Well, not -- not everyone. I -- Imean, only one who -- who got new counsel on the directappeal.MR. FAHRINGER: That's right, Your Honor. I'm th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC sorry. I'm speaking in the terms of that. Obviously, ifyou had the same lawyer, that would -- Your Honor, thatwould really be cause, so it may be that he would be ableto easily overcome the cause aspect, but he still has theprejudice aspect that he has to establish.In the other circuits, he can go right in on a, and -- and itself says that unless it'sconclusively established that his -- his papers arewithout merit, a hearing shall be granted, so there's aterrible disparity in the way defendants are treated whoare trying to -- to restore this most important right.QUESTION: Suppose you have a case where -- andyou stated earlier that this doesn't happen very often,but suppose it's evident on the face of the record thatthe counsel was ineffective. He stands up and says on the record, Your Honor, I wish the record to show I've beenasleep for an hour during the key cross examination.Isn't it there also an efficiency in justsending it back for new trial right away, rather thangoing through all of the other claimed errors?MR. FAHRINGER: Well, Your Honor, I think yes. I --QUESTION: I mean, if it's evident that the casehas to go back, why have the district court -- or, pardonme, the appellate courts examine the entire record and -- th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC and give a lengthy opinion that's obviously going to beunnecessary?MR. FAHRINGER: And Your Honor, I hope I'manswering your question, because I want to be direct. Youavoid that by the collateral review rule. Right now,the Second Circuit is involved in a large number of caseswhere they come up and they just say, well, this reallyshould go back, and -- and that -- that prolongs theappellate process.QUESTION: Well, I'm a little confused on thesame point. I thought that, suppose -- does -- would yousay that a defendant is forbidden to raise an ineffectiveassistance claim on direct appeal?MR. FAHRINGER: No.QUESTION: No. You're just saying that if he doesn't, you can -- he can raise it later in .MR. FAHRINGER: That's right.QUESTION: And the appellate court can't say tohim, oh, you should have raised it earlier, so you're out?MR. FAHRINGER: Precisely, Your Honor. The --QUESTION: All right, and so all we're doing isdefining the -- the scope of the procedural bar rule whena person goes into . We're not controlling what hesays on his appeal.MR. FAHRINGER: That's correct, Your Honor, th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC and --QUESTION: We're not.MR. FAHRINGER: -- it seems to me that if -- butplease understand, I think I have to say in all fairness,if he takes and goes up on the direct appeal with hisineffectiveness claim and the appellate court resolves it,then he may be barred.QUESTION: Yes, so -- so in other words, if hechooses to go and appeal, direct appeal --MR. FAHRINGER: Yes.QUESTION: -- he's not going to be able to makeexactly the same claim later in .MR. FAHRINGER: Precisely.QUESTION: But if he doesn't make it on directappeal, you want him to be able to make it on and not be met with the argument, oh, you should have brought iton direct appeal.MR. FAHRINGER: Your Honor, in response to that,there really is --QUESTION: Yes, all right. I --MR. FAHRINGER: -- unanimity among all of thecircuits that the best forum -- the best -- the SecondCircuit agrees with this, too. The best forum forresolving ineffectiveness claims is in the collateralproceeding, when you have access to discovery. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC QUESTION: May I ask you about this -- thispossibility? Sometimes there are -- there are claims inwhich there are two bases for challenging the competenceof counsel. Assume that one of them is plain on the faceof the record, he didn't object to -- you have a wholebunch of, line of interrogation was plainly improper, andthe second ground is not plain on the record. Supposinghe raises the first ground on direct appeal and loses. Ishe barred, in your view, from raising the second ground oncollateral review?MR. FAHRINGER: No, Your Honor. He would beable to do that. The -- the -- but if I may, Your Honor,that's triggered another grave concern here. In -- underStrickland you indicated that, you know, ineffectivenessclaims really should be judged in aggregate because one lends force to another. It ought to be the overallperformance of the attorney.What you have in the Second Circuit now is thevery piecemeal type of resolution of ineffectivenessclaims that you just described. What has actuallyhappened, and we cite the cases in our brief, they takeone because that's, they say is fully developed on therecord. They resolve it. Two more go back down to the proceeding, and that seems to be in direct defianceof the spirit, at least, of the Strickland rule that they th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC should all be decided together in one proceeding, and sothat, you know, it's -- the -- the powerful arguments ofefficiency, simplicity, and fairness to all parties seemsto -- to argue for the -- the collateral review rule.The only argument they lean against this is thisnotion of -- of finality, but -- but I submit to the Courtmost respectfully that that's an -- that's in a -- analmost nonexistent, narrow margin of cases, becausethere's always more you're going to develop on the record. The lawyer's explanation, for instance, you know, younever have that --QUESTION: Well, you know, you could go -- youcould have an entire separate proceeding, Mr. Fahringer,and just have exhaustive discovery and so on, but there --there comes a time when there is an interest in finality, that you don't want the thing just postponed to anotherday, which this does.MR. FAHRINGER: But Your Honor -- and -- and Iwelcome that question, Mr. Chief Justice, and that isthis, that if, as the Second Circuit itself says, it isonly in a very few cases where it would be fully developedon the record, that seems to me to be a small price to payfor a much simpler, more straightforward rule thateverybody knows where they stand. Lawyers are notstruggling with this decision in the Second Circuit, th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC should I raise it, should I not raise it, am I at risk,and now what you've done is, under the Second Circuit'srule, you have spawned a whole generation of -- of secondineffectiveness claims, because if the lawyer doesn'traise it and the defendant understandably says, well, youshould have raised it because they say it was fullydeveloped on the record and you thought it wasn't, now youhave another whole level that is added to this, so thecomplexity is staggering that is developed.QUESTION: Mr. Fahringer, is -- does AEDPArequire that all such claims have to be brought within year in any event?MR. FAHRINGER: It does to this respect, YourHonor, yes, because as a practical matter now, under AEDPAas it had amended , if you bring an ineffectiveness claim in a proceeding, and they are resolved, and youwant to try to bring another one, you have to getpermission of the circuit court, of course, so you've gotsome control over it, and -- and then all claims have tobe brought within a year in any event, so the fears thatwere expressed in Frady have been put to rest, I believe,and there's really no good reason. I -- I think thereason the Solicitor General endorsed this rule for over years, and they've changed their mind now, butcertainly we've cited case after case where they argued to th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC this Court that -- that this is the best way to do it, tobring it in a collateral proceeding, because that is thefairest, the simplest.QUESTION: Am I right in thinking that mostcases, even in the Second Circuit, do go into the mold, because in most cases it will not be clear on therecord, and the Second Circuit rule that you must bring iton direct review applies only when it is clear, theineffectiveness is clear on the record, if you need tolook outside the record, then the Second Circuit agrees itdoesn't belong on direct review?MR. FAHRINGER: Your Honor, in all due respect,I'm not sure that's right. Since Billy-Eko came down, cases that we were able to find in addition to this onewere defaulted, because the Second Circuit said it should have been brought, there was enough on the record. Sothis is a terribly ambiguous and controversial -- and wedon't know how many cases where district courts justsimply issued an order. These are written opinions, manyof them, Your Honor, unpublished, but it --QUESTION: But there -- but are there not caseswhere the Second Circuit has recognized this particularclaim depends on extra-record material?MR. FAHRINGER: Absolutely, Your Honor. Absolutely. As a matter of fact, what I think lends force th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC to our argument here is that even the Second Circuitacknowledged it, and yet they persist in holding to thatnarrow exception that it should be raised on directappeal, and that narrow exception means that in every proceeding, a defendant must overcome what is a fairly --a large hurdle of -- of cause and prejudice, and that'snot true in the other -- in the other circuits, so webelieve, on balance, the better rule, and the one thatwill more effectively administer justice, should be thisone.With that being said, I'd like to close by justsimply urging the Court that since one of the mostcherished policies of this Nation is that, and of thecriminal justice system is that a person is entitled tothe effective assistance of counsel, but if that right is rendered meaningless because if he's denied thatsafeguard, he has no effective remedy to cure it, then itseems to me the right has been sadly lost, and I would askthis Court to adopt the rule that we urge.Thank you so much.QUESTION: Do you wish to reserve your remainingtime, Mr. Fahringer?MR. FAHRINGER: Yes. Thank you, Mr. ChiefJustice.QUESTION: Yes. Mr. Srinivasan. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC ORAL ARGUMENT OF SRIKANTH SRINIVASANON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTQUESTION: Mr. Srinivasan, suppose you start bytelling us why the SG changed the position that it had --that he had taken for so long on this point?MR. SRINIVASAN: Justice O'Connor, the -- theSolicitor General's Office today, as before, believes thatin the majority of the cases, in the overwhelming majorityof the cases, claims asserting ineffective assistance ofcounsel will be better resolved on collateral review. Thequestion has been whether the costs of applying aprocedural default rule outweigh those benefits, and ithas been our experience, with the application of the rulein the Second and Seventh Circuits over the past severalyears, that the administrative costs that initially were feared haven't -- haven't been borne out, and that thedegree of uncertainty that initially led us to -- to reachthe position that a procedural default rule should not beapplied hasn't been borne out either.QUESTION: So in effect you think that what'shappening now in CA- and CA- is just fine?MR. SRINIVASAN: In the main, we think that'scorrect, Justice O'Connor. It should not -- the rule'soperation should not result in unfairness to defendants,and should not overload the courts with ineffectiveness th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC claims that are asserted prematurely on direct appeal.QUESTION: How many cases are we talking about? I mean, it's the -- we're arguing about a sub-class ofcases in which counsel changes between the trial and thedirect appeal. Either in percentage terms or absoluteterms, how many are we talking about?MR. SRINIVASAN: Justice Souter, the best thatwe can tell, and this is based on essentially anecdotalreports of U.S. Attorney's Offices, it's somewhere on theorder of to percent, roughly, of cases in which newcounsel represents the defendant on appeal, but that --I'd -- I hesitate to rely too much on that figure, becauseit is based on the anecdotal reports --QUESTION: And --MR. SRINIVASAN: -- and additionally, it varies significantly by locality, depending on the particularrules that are in place for replacement of counsel onappeal.QUESTION: Within that to percent,whatever it may be, do you have any kind of a rough guessas to the number of instances of this issue that arise?MR. SRINIVASAN: This issue?QUESTION: I mean, how -- how many times withinthat to percent category do we get into an argumentlater on as to whether can be availed of because, in th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC fact, a -- a record was sufficiently developed to -- toraise the -- the claim on direct? How -- how many casesare there?MR. SRINIVASAN: We don't -- we don't have thefigures on that. We don't -- we don't track the figuresby substantive claims, and so it's been difficult to comeup with numbers that reflect the treatment ofineffectiveness claims in particular.QUESTION: So it's -- it's hard to say what thesort of cost to the system, if there is one, would be ofgoing one way or the other?MR. SRINIVASAN: It's -- it's hard to saybecause there's no hard scientific data, and I --QUESTION: Well, how could there be? I mean,what the problem is, is in a very small number of cases, hardly any, you have a case in the district court wherethe judge is serving as a habeas judge, and the Governmentin a very small number of cases comes in and makes theargument, judge, he cannot raise this ineffectiveassistance claim because he should have raised it ondirect appeal, although he didn't, and then the cost tothe system is hidden in the mind of the judge, in theminds of the lawyers who have to spend time briefing thatand going and finding some affidavits, and trying to getaround it. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC I mean, how could you get empirical information,and what led you to change your opinion? Have you beeninvestigating the minds of the judge or the minds of thelawyers in some way, that you know that they aren'tactually aggravated, that you know that they aren'tactually disturbed at having to waste their time on suchan issue?MR. SRINIVASAN: No, we haven't been conductingan examination of that, of that sort, of course.QUESTION: Oh, I'm sure you haven't. I'm beinga little facetious, but it seems to me it's not empiricaldata. The world won't come to an end if you lose thiscase. All it will do is save judges and lawyers a certainamount of time, which, if you win this case, they willhave spent for no reason.MR. SRINIVASAN: That -- Justice Breyer, it'scorrect that it saves time at the stage of collateralreview, but the question for procedural default purposesis the effect of the rule at the time of direct appeal,and --QUESTION: You could save no time on directappeal, it's nothing. I mean, what we're talking about iscases where the person didn't raise the argument on directappeal.MR. SRINIVASAN: But the consequences of having th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC a procedural default rule is that it encourages theraising of ineffectiveness claims on direct appeal in anyessential issues.QUESTION: Yes, yes. Everybody will have to goand make the same argument twice. First they'll have togo and make the argument on direct appeal, a lot of them,and then they will have to remake the argument oncollateral review, this time trying to explain why it'ssomehow different.MR. SRINIVASAN: Justice Breyer, there aresituations in which ineffectiveness claims can be raisedand resolved on direct appeal, and --QUESTION: There are.QUESTION: Are there -- a fairly small number, Iwould assume?MR. SRINIVASAN: It is a narrow category ofcases, Justice O'Connor, but those cases do exist.QUESTION: In any event, the AEDPA time limitsapply, do they not, even if we followed a different rule?MR. SRINIVASAN: As a -- that's correct, JusticeO'Connor, the -year statute of limitations applies, butthat's also true of other substantive claims, and yet theCourt has continued to apply the cause in prejudicestandard to encourage the raising of those claims at theearliest available opportunity, and that's the -- that's th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC the principal policy interest behind applying theprocedural default rule in this context.QUESTION: Is this just a Federal question,Mr. Srinivasan, or are -- does it carry over to casesgoing through State courts, too?MR. SRINIVASAN: Mr. Chief Justice, the questionbefore the Court is -- is purely a Federal question. TheStates have adopted varying approaches, as we've suggestedin our briefs. A significant number of States require theraising of ineffectiveness claims on direct appeal, andjudge the raising of an ineffectiveness claim oncollateral review by a cause in prejudice standard.QUESTION: Isn't it true that the majority ofStates go the other way?MR. SRINIVASAN: The majority -- it appears that the majority of States go the other way, but it's notentirely clear, Justice Stevens, because some of theStates haven't spoken directly on the question. Whatwe -- what we know is that States -- it was at thetime we filed our brief, but it's now , follow the causein prejudice approach and require the raising ofineffectiveness claims on direct appeal, and there's atleast a significant number of States that don't requirethe raising of ineffectiveness claims on direct appeal,but it's unclear whether there's more than , and so we th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC don't know exactly whether it's a majority or not, but --but there at least are a significant number that applyprocedural default principles to the raising of claims ondirect appeal, and that's --QUESTION: Am I right that the Government'sposition before the -- before we granted cert in this casewas, this lack of uniformity is all right, that eitherrule will do, and that lawyers, defense lawyers in theSecond Circuit will file the Second Circuit's rule, anddefense lawyers in the Fifth Circuit will file the FifthCircuit rule, and that was okay? Wasn't that theGovernment's original position -- you were never saying,it must be direct review if it's clear on the record?MR. SRINIVASAN: Justice Ginsburg, our positionwas that there was no need for national uniformity in the sense that the Court need not grant review to impose anational -- national uniform rule. We didn't -- wethought that there was no unfairness in the existingdivergence of approaches among the courts of appeals,because in each court of appeals, a defendant had noticeof the particular approach that applied in that circuit,and so a defendant knew ahead of time whether he had toraise its ineffectiveness claim on direct appeal, orwhether he could wait without penalty and raise it oncollateral review. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC QUESTION: So effectively, you told us not tobother with this case, but once we granted cert, then theGovernment had to take a position?MR. SRINIVASAN: Correct, Justice Ginsburg. Nowthat the Court has granted certiorari, we think it wouldbe appropriate for this Court to adopt a Nationwide rulesimilar to what the Court essentially did in Bousley,where the question was the proper time for raising anobjection to a guilty plea on grounds that the plea wasnot voluntary, or -- or intelligent, and the Court reacheda resolution that required the raising of those claims ondirect appeal and adopted, it -- it appears, a Nationwidesolution, and we think a similar approach would beappropriate in this case, that the Court should decidewhether on a national scale ineffectiveness claims can always be brought on collateral review without anyconcerns about procedural default, or, as we think isappropriate, that ineffectiveness claims should berequired to be raised on direct appeal in those situationsin which counsel is new and the record -- the record forthe claim is fully developed in the trial record.QUESTION: One can imagine, if the requirementthat the counsel be new in order to force you to raise iton direct appeal, that in itself could be the subject ofcontroversy. That is, if you take a Public Defender th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC Office, and one Public Defender, one member of that officeconducts the trial, and then another member of that officeconducts the appeal, is that new counsel?MR. SRINIVASAN: Justice Ginsburg, there --there are decisions that address that issue in the Statecourts, and I believe at least a couple that address thatissue in the Federal courts, and generally, the approachhas been that defenders from the same Public -- attorneysfrom the same Public Defender's Office are considered thesame attorney for purposes of conflict, determiningwhether there's a conflict in one alleging that the otherrendered ineffective assistance.And that, I think, comes from the ABAprofessional rules, and I -- and I believe it's Model Rule., which suggests that competence is imputed to attorneys that operate within the same firm, and thatconfirms that, at least for private firm purposes, twoattorneys from the same firm would be considered to be thesame attorney for procedural default -- default purposes,and we think the same approach would follow with respectto Public Defender's Offices, so I don't think that thequestion of the same attorney is going to give rise to agreat deal of litigation or uncertainty. The rules inthat area ought to be pretty clear.QUESTION: Well, there's one aspect of the th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC Government's decision, now that it has to take a positionone way or another. These questions, ineffectiveness ofcounsel, deal with what went on in the trial court, andordinarily, the first view of such questions is taken by acourt of first instance, not an appellate court, and yethere, the first look under the rule you are now supportingwould be taken by an appellate court.MR. SRINIVASAN: Justice Ginsburg, that'scorrect, but I think it's important to point out that thatquestion, that situation is going to arise regardless ofhow this Court resolves the procedural default question,because in all the courts of appeals a defendant can raisean ineffective assistance claim on direct appeal.QUESTION: What -- what is the procedure inthe -- in the Federal system for a collateral --collateral action, they have a claim that's ineffective. Does that go back to the judge who was the trial judge?MR. SRINIVASAN: Typically, yes, that's the way works, Mr. Chief Justice.QUESTION: May I ask, under the Second Circuitrule, if the defendant is represented by the PublicDefender's Office in the trial court, and then on appeal,the Public Defender's Office continues to represent himbut by a different lawyer, they have different -- doesthat -- is that a different lawyer within the meaning of th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC the Second Circuit rule, or is it the same lawyer?MR. SRINIVASAN: No, I think as I was -- as Iwas attempting to suggest in response to JusticeGinsburg's question, I think that would be considered thesame attorney, and that follows from conflicts principles.QUESTION: I see.MR. SRINIVASAN: That attorneys within the sameoffice are considered to be the same attorney for purposesof conflicts, and that informs the proper approach in --in the procedural default inquiry, but I think it'simportant to note that all the courts of appeals areconfronted with ineffective assistance claims that areraised on direct appeal. No court of appeals prohibitsthe assertion of an ineffectiveness claim on directappeal, so in every court, the court of appeals is faced with one of three options at the time an ineffectivenessclaim is raised.They can deny the claim on the merits if theycan conclude that in no circumstances the claim couldsucceed, they could grant relief on ineffectivenessgrounds in the narrow category of cases in whichentitlement to relief will be apparent from the trialrecord, or they could decline to resolve the claim andremit its resolution to , and that's precisely thesame three options that confront the Second Circuit and th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC the Seventh Circuit, who apply the procedural defaultrule.So Justice Ginsburg, in response to yourquestion, the courts of appeals are faced with the samearray of options whether this Court adopts a proceduraldefault principle or not, and in the Ninth Circuit, forexample, in , the Court faced roughly on the order of direct appeals in which ineffective assistance ofcounsel was asserted as a basis for relief, and in ofthose cases, the Court was able to decide conclusivelythat the claim was lacking in merit and therefore couldn'tbe brought again under , and --QUESTION: Then the court of appeals can alwayssay, we think it would be better to have this aired inthe -- in the court of first instance, so there will be no prejudice to our rejecting it now, you can bring it in, but the one that -- the concern here is thedefendant and his new counsel, whether the new counsel cansafely say, if I have any doubt, I'm going to hold it backto the , and one point that was made was that ondirect appeal, it's important for the appellate counsel tohave the cooperation of the trial lawyer to help him gothrough the record and point out possible grounds forappeal.But if the new counsel is going to insert th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC ineffective assistance of counsel at that stage, it willmake the relationship between trial and appellate counselrather tense, will it not?MR. SRINIVASAN: That -- that possibilitycertainly is there, Justice Ginsburg, but I think the samepossibility arises at the time of collateral review, whenthe attorney -- when you'd expect the attorney equally todesire the cooperation of trial counsel, but any effort toassert ineffectiveness could create the same sort oftension in the relationship.QUESTION: Mr. Srinivasan, do you have any ideaof what percentage of cases, of criminal convictionsresult in inadequate assistance of counsel claims? Is it percent of them, percent of them, what? Do we know?MR. SRINIVASAN: I -- I don't have statistics of that variety, Justice O'Connor. I think it's beengenerally recognized by several courts that ineffectiveassistance claims are often raised on collateral review,and I think it's fair to say that in a significant portionof -- of petitions, an ineffective assistance ofcounsel claim will be at least one ground for relief.And one effect of applying a procedural defaultprinciple would be to encourage the raising and resolutionof those claims on direct appeal in those situations inwhich it's appropriate, and I think it's important to th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC point out that there are at least some cases in which acourt of appeals can resolve, on the basis of the trialrecord, that the -- that trial counsel either was or wasnot ineffective, and this Court, for example, in its -- inits Kimmelman decision, the -- pointed out that trialcounsel's ineffectiveness, at least in terms of theperformance prong of the Strickland inquiry, was apparentfrom the trial record, and there will be situations likethat that arise every so often, and perhaps morefrequently an appellate court will be able to determinethat trial counsel's performance was not ineffective andwill be able to make that determination perhaps because,no matter how deficient the performance was, the -- theparticular matter at issue could never have resulted inprejudice for the defendant.For example, if the claim of ineffectiveness isthat trial counsel was ineffective in failing tocompetently impeach a particular witness, an appellatecourt could perhaps look at the trial record and determinethat the testimony of that particular witness was notcentral to the prosecution's case, and in thosecircumstances, could a more effective impeachment havegiven rise to a reasonable probability that the result attrial would have been different.So there are going to be some situations in th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC which a court of appeals can resolve an ineffectivenessclaim at the time of direct appeal, and in thosesituations, it seems appropriate to encourage the raisingof the claim at that stage in order to promote respect forthe finality of criminal judgments and also to promote theresolution of legal claims at the earliest feasibleopportunity.QUESTION: Under your rule, as I understand it,new appellate counsel has the obligation to search throughthe record to show, to find ineffective assistance ofcounsel, and the trial counsel doesn't have thatobligation. That, number one, seems to me a little bitarbitrary and, secondly, I'm wondering if that might notitself have an effect on how often petitioner gets newappellate counsel as opposed to having his trial counsel. Do you think there might be some effect of this rule onthe decision to retain new counsel at the appellate stage?MR. SRINIVASAN: We're not aware that --QUESTION: Or maybe even some gamesmanshipplaying, where that trial counsel is counsel of record,but he really gets new appellate counsel to help him out?MR. SRINIVASAN: Well, we're not aware of any --of any effect of that sort in either the Second or SeventhCircuits which apply the procedural default rule, and --and I think if trial counsel's involved in the th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC gamesmanship, one would have to conceive of a situation inwhich trial counsel found it in his interest to ensurethat appellate counsel could confirm his ineffectivenessat trial, and that situation perhaps is unlikely to arise.And in terms of the distinction betweenappellate counsel calling into question trial counsel'sineffectiveness, and trial counsel calling into questionhis own ineffectiveness, Justice Kennedy, this Court inKimmelman observed what I think would -- is a common senseproposition, which is that trial counsel is unlikely tobring into question his own competence at trial and, infact, he would -- he would create a conflict situation,and therefore the system just doesn't operate on theassumption that trial counsel should be required toidentify his own ineffectiveness and bring it to the attention of the trial court.QUESTION: What about Mr. Fahringer's point thatif you follow your rule, you're going to get a secondgeneration of ineffective assistance claims, that is, thatthe counsel who didn't raise or did raise something onappeal was ineffective?MR. SRINIVASAN: Mr. Chief Justice, it's truethat -- that ineffective assistance of appellate counselis -- would constitute cause for failing to raise theclaim of ineffective assistance of trial counsel at -- on th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC direct appeal, that that is also true in -- with all othersubstantive claims, that ineffective assistance of trialcounsel for failing to raise any substantive claim at thetime of direct appeal could constitute cause excusing thedefault, yet this Court has continued to apply proceduraldefault principles in the case of other substantiveclaims, and so I'm not sure that that particularconsideration tips the balance decidedly in one directionor the other.And in fact, the Court has made clear indecisions such as Murray versus Carrier and Smith versusMurray, and -- and recently in Smith versus Robbins, thatit's difficult to make out a claim of ineffectiveassistance of appellate counsel because appellatecounsel's decision whether to raise a particular claim is the hallmark of effective advocacy, and one would have toshow that appellate counsel was unreasonable in failing topresent one claim instead of another at the time ofappellate briefing in order to establish that there wascause for failing to raise ineffective assistance of trialcounsel at the time of direct appeal.QUESTION: Of course, the Government loses onething on -- on your theory in -- in certainly some of theineffective assistance records I've had here, or seen herewhere the -- the issue arises whether, in fact, an th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC apparently foolish move on the part of trial counsel wasdictated by what ultimately was a very sensible tacticalreason which is not apparent on the face of the record.In cases like that, the Government isn't goingto get a chance, in effect, to make that kind of rebuttalif the issue is raised on -- on direct. The Governmentsimply won't know.MR. SRINIVASAN: Justice Souter, the Governmentwon't get that chance if it's resolved on direct appeal. If it's raised on direct appeal, the Government, ofcourse, shares an interest in assuring that the trialcourt -- that the appellate court, excuse me, does notresolve the claim because it would say --QUESTION: No, but you run the -- there's noquestion the -- but the -- the trial court may not give you the chance. I mean, you run a risk that you're goingto get cut short on your opportunity to get trial counselto explain what may look like a very dumb thing on the --on the record.The risk you run is that the trial -- thatthe -- that the appellate court on direct appeal is goingto say, this was crazy, no -- you know, there -- therecouldn't be any sensible explanation for this, and I -- Idon't understand -- I don't know, just as we were sayingbefore, there's no way to tell how -- how frequently a th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC situation like this will arise, because we don't have anyhard statistics on any of it, but I -- I don't know whyyou're giving that up.MR. SRINIVASAN: Well, in order to amelioratethat possibility, Justice Souter, the Seventh Circuit, forexample, has adopted a standard under which it will notdecide a claim of ineffectiveness in the defendant's favorunless there's no possible strategic rationale forcounsel's decision and, of course, to the extent thatthere may be a strategic rationale for the counsel'sdecision, it'll be in the Government's interest to bringthat to the court's attention in its appellate briefing,and we haven't seen too many situations in which a courtgrants a claim of ineffectiveness on direct appeal, butyet there was potentially a strategic rationale for counsel's decision.In fact, the court should grant relief onineffectiveness grounds on direct appeal only insituations such as the one that confronted the Court inKimmelman, where there was an extended dialogue betweentrial counsel and the trial court concerning trialcounsel's assertively deficient decision --QUESTION: I --MR. SRINIVASAN: -- and trial counsel was ableto explain to the trial court the basis of its decision, th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC and from trial counsel's explanation, one could determinethat it wasn't based on a strategic rationale, but insteadwas based simply on a misunderstanding of the time, of thetimeliness of the rejection rule that was at issue.QUESTION: In a collateral proceeding,Mr. Srinivasan, you're developing evidence, you havethe trial -- you put the trial counsel on the stand andthe new counsel cross examines him to see -- prove howbadly he did?MR. SRINIVASAN: That -- that could arise,Mr. Chief Justice. That's -- that's one potentialevidentiary way to show that trial counsel wasineffective.QUESTION: And is there any limit on the -- canyou, you know, examine the trial counsel for his mental processes and that sort of thing?MR. SRINIVASAN: I'm not -- I don't know theanswer to that, Mr. Chief Justice. I don't know to whatextent privileges weigh into it.QUESTION: But the Government frequently inthese cases elicits testimony in response from the trialcounsel saying, well, yeah, I -- I didn't ask the questionbecause I didn't want to get into this sort of subject, soI mean that --MR. SRINIVASAN: That's correct. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC QUESTION: -- I take it, is a relatively commonfeature in these cases.MR. SRINIVASAN: That's -- that's correct,Justice Souter. It's in the Government -- the Governmentdoes do that, and it's in their interest to do that toensure that the result of trial is upheld.QUESTION: There are no privilege problems, arethere -- or maybe I'm wrong -- if -- if the client himselfhas the new attorney examine the old one. He waives theprivilege.MR. SRINIVASAN: I think that's right, JusticeKennedy.If I could turn just for one moment to theapplication of a procedural default rule to the facts ofthis case, in -- if the procedural default rule were to be applied, the question at the time of collateral review iswhether -- is whether the defendant has introducedextrinsic evidence not available in the trial record insupport of this claim of ineffectiveness, and the court ofappeals in this case found that there was no extrinsicevidence material to the claim of ineffectivenessintroduced in the affidavits on which petitioner reliesbecause the affidavits suggests avenues of inquiry thetrial counsel could have pursued that trial counsel infact did pursue. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC For example, on the facts of this particularcase, that there was no blood spatter remaining from thewound, and that -- that no blood spatter reflected on theupholstery of the car, or no blood itself on the frontpassenger seat, or that the body of the -- the position ofthe body wasn't consistent with the testimony concerningthe firing of the second shot, and I think it's importantto point out that in all of those avenues were, in fact,explored by the trial record -- excuse me, by trialcounsel, and were presented to the jury, and the juryevidently found them not persuasive.QUESTION: And yet the -- the trial judgeherself said to defense counsel, aren't you going to movefor a continuance, when this bullet came -- was unearthedafter all that time. Didn't she, a couple of times, hint that it would be -- might be a good idea for defensecounsel to seek a continuance?MR. SRINIVASAN: She did. She offered acontinuance on repeated occasions to trial counsel, andtrial counsel turned it down, but I think the defendant'sburden at the time of collateral review now is to showthat the refusal of a continuance worked to thedefendant's detriment and resulted in a reasonableprobability that the result at trial would have beendifferent had he -- had he accepted a continuance, and the th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC affidavits only present avenues of inquiry that trialcounsel in fact pursued, which indicates, and I think insome sense confirms, that a continuance would not haveaffected the result at trial.If there are no further questions, Mr. ChiefJustice --QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. Srinivasan.Mr. Fahringer, you have minutes left.REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF HERALD P. FAHRINGERON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERMR. FAHRINGER: Mr. Chief Justice, I don't thinkI'm going to have to use them, but let me go right to thismatter of prejudice.The Court should understand that the districtcourt, nor the court of appeals, decided the prejudice issue. This was decided purely on procedural ground thatthere was a sufficient record to raise it on appeal, andwhat I think it's important for you to understand is thatalthough in the trial record you had the justice pleadingwith defense counsel to take a continuance, investigatethis bullet that became the most important piece ofevidence in the case -- the prosecutor stated that in theSecond Circuit, this was our most important piece ofevidence. That became the pivotal point of the trial,and -- and the affidavits don't simply talk about avenues th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC the defense lawyer should have taken, what the affidavitssay is that it is highly unlikely that this bullet wasfired in that car, and they say that it is not consistentwith the chief and one and only witness that was involvedin the homicide, so what was missing, the indispensablecomponent for an ineffectiveness claim was the prejudice. That was not on the record. What you had is, you're nottaking an adjournment, but all you have in the record is,the bullet and the prosecution's proof.QUESTION: Of course, we're not trying to decidehere whether --MR. FAHRINGER: No.QUESTION: -- or not this claim should besustained or rejected.MR. FAHRINGER: No, I -- you're -- Mr. Chief Justice, I agree. What I would like to say is, I thinkthe Solicitor General is mistaken when he responded toyour question and said that there would still beineffectiveness claims against appellate counsel. If thisCourt adopts the rule that a ineffectiveness claim can bebrought under and does not have to be first exploredin those few cases on direct appeal, then there certainlycan be no claim made against appellate counsel for notraising that claim.The other issue that's been identified here, th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC which is one of some moment, is new counsel. The -- theSecond Circuit has held in a case, it's unreported so Iwon't discuss it, but you should know that there's aholding that the Legal Aid Society, when it went over tothe Appeals Bureau, that was a different lawyer, eventhough it was the same society, so it -- it is -- there'sambiguity there, too.What if the trial lawyer goes out and gets whathe thinks is a good appellate lawyer to come in Of Counselwith him, and the new appellate lawyer comes in and hesees the colleague who brought him into the case hasgot -- I mean, it just is generating one complexity afteranother.If you look at the Seventh Circuit rule, they have put so many exceptions onto this, as has been identified, that -- that it's just becoming I thinkunmanageable and the rule is becoming unadministratable,and for that reason it cries out for a new rule.Thank you, Your Honor.CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: Thank you,Mr. Fahringer. The case is submitted.(Whereupon, at : a.m., the case in theabove-entitled matter was submitted.) th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC 