 IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XDOLE FOOD COMPANY, ET AL., Petitioners ::v. : No. -GERARDO DENNIS PATRICKSON, ET AL. and :::DEAD SEA BROMINE CO. LTD., AND :BROMINE COMPOUNDS LIMITED Petitioners, ::v. : No. -GERARDO DENNIS PATRICKSON, ET AL. ::- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XWashington, D.C.Wednesday, January , The above-entitled matters came on for oralargument before the Supreme Court of the United States at: a.m.APPEARANCES:PETER R. PADEN, ESQ., New York, New York; on behalf of thePetitioners.JONATHAN S. MASSEY, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf ofthe Respondents. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC APPEARANCES CONTINUED:JEFFREY P. MINEAR, ESQ., Assistant to the SolicitorGeneral, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; forthe United States, as amicus curiae, supporting theRespondents. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC C O N T E N T SORAL ARGUMENT OF PETER R. PADEN, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioners ORAL ARGUMENT OFJONATHAN S. MASSEY, ESQ.On behalf of the Respondents ORAL ARGUMENT OFJEFFREY P. MINEAR, ESQ.On behalf of the United States, as amicus curiae,supporting the Respondents REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OFPETER R. PADEN, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioners PAGE th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC P R O C E E D I N G S(: a.m.)CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: We'll hear argumentnow in Number -, the Dole Food Company versusPatrickson, and a companion case.Mr. Paden.ORAL ARGUMENT OF PETER R. PADENON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERSMR. PADEN: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it pleasethe Court:The Dead Sea Bromine Company is aninstrumentality of Israel under the Foreign SovereignImmunities Act for three principal reasons.QUESTION: Is it -- is it owned in the samecapacity now as it was earlier?MR. PADEN: No -- no, it is not, Your Honor.QUESTION: And was it owned at the time the suitwas filed?MR. PADEN: At the time this suit was filed, thecompany had been privatized. It was privatized in .QUESTION: Right. Right, and so are you goingto address, then, how it comes under the statute at all inthose circumstances?MR. PADEN: I certainly intend to do that, YourHonor. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: Yes.MR. PADEN: The three reasons, in sum, are that,throughout the period of time giving rise to the claims,Israel owned a majority of the shares or other ownershipinterests in the company. We contend that this broadphrase plainly encompasses the majority ownership of DeadSea Bromine that Israel indisputably possessed through atiered ownership structure.Secondly, a contrary interpretation cannot bereconciled with the basic purposes of the act. The samepolicy that Congress found applicable to directly ownedentities apply equally to their subsidiaries where theforeign State retains a majority interest. To restrictinstrumentalities to entities in which States hold legaltitle to the shares of stock would exclude a large number of the very types of State-owned commercial enterprises,shipping and airlines, mining operations and the like,that Congress specifically intended to bring within thereach of the statute.QUESTION: Yes, but it's a lot of trouble totrack these things back, you know, who owns shares manytiers up, and Congress might well have simply determined we will honor the sovereignty of other States when they'rethe principal stockholder of a corporation. Where --where they are not, we are not impugning their sovereignty th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC by going ahead and permitting -- permitting suit againstthe entity. That's certainly a rational -- a rationaldisposition, and the language seems to suggest that.MR. PADEN: Well, Your Honor, I -- I don'tdisagree that that would be a rational disposition, but Idon't think there's any indication in the case law, andthere have been numerous cases where tiered entities haveappeared before courts, that it's posed any particularproblem to identify the tiered ownership structure. I --I'm not aware of any cases where -- where that's posed anenormous issue, and the computation of ownership andcorporate -- corporate responsibility for subsidiaries isan issue that lawyers deal with every day in commerciallitigation, and lawyers have well-established techniquesto ferret out the corporate change of ownership and it's -- it's done all the time.We don't think -- it clearly can be an issue,but we don't think that that's a particularlyinsurmountable issue here, and, in fact, there's certainlyno indication --QUESTION: Your -- your principle would apply nomatter how many tiers up they go? I -- I assume you don'tthink the second tier is the limit?MR. PADEN: So long as the State's ownershipinterest is the majority ownership interest, Your Honor, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC there could be --QUESTION: Even though the name of the Statedoes not appear until you get six tiers up?MR. PADEN: That's correct. Our position wouldbe that so long as the State's interest is a majorityinterest, that would be the limiting principle, and Ithink that's what the words of the statute seemto suggest --QUESTION: Why do you limit to the majority? Supposing they have practical control as in othersituations, you look at who really runs the company.MR. PADEN: Well, the statute says majorityownership, Your Honor, and we think that --QUESTION: But it doesn't say majority ownershipof grandchildren of the parent.MR. PADEN: It says a majority ownershipinterest, Your Honor, and we think a majority ownershipinterest is about as broad a term as -- as could beconjured up to try to describe generically the concept ofownership. I think Congress had in mind that this statutewas going to apply to entities from nations all around theworld, with many different kinds of economic systems, andin some countries the notion of ownership isn't even soclearly established.QUESTION: Well, I -- I suppose it could mean th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ownership of other forms, for instance, an oil-drillingventure, a working interest of percent, which is notusually called a share. It's --MR. PADEN: That's true.QUESTION: So -- so there -- there's work forthat phrase in the statute to do without adopting yourposition, it seems to me.MR. PADEN: There is. There are certainly otherkinds of ownership in our legal system -- partnershipinterests are an obvious example -- which don'tnecessarily refer to share ownership.But ownership interest is a very, very broadterm, and it -- we think that if Congress had intendedthis to be so specifically limited to direct -- directlyowned entities, it would have said directly owned --QUESTION: Well, it can --QUESTION: Your argument would be stronger if itwere a stand-alone term, but it isn't. It comes aftershares, and so one can say, well, we're going to readownership interest, shares or other ownership interest assomething, say, equivalent to a stock certificate.You -- it -- it doesn't just say, ownershipinterest, and I think that that's why the statute itselfdoesn't answer the question.MR. PADEN: Well, we think, Your Honor, that the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC phrase needs to be read as a whole, and we do not believethat this is a situation, when the statute is read as awhole, that the -- that the principle of redundancy andsuperfluousness which Judge Kozinski felt, decided in thiscase dictated the -- the restriction to direct ownershipshould apply.QUESTION: Do you -- do you agree with therespondents' contention, the United States' contentionthat foreign countries would not -- would not give us thisbreak, that generally speaking, in international lawthey -- they'll only look to the ownership of theimmediate company?MR. PADEN: I -- I think that that's true, YourHonor, but I think it requires a comment. I think thatthe -- the structure of this statute very uniquely reflects our Federalist system, and -- and the -- thisalleged disparity between treatment in this country andother countries I think is something of a red herring. Congress for the most part, in establishing this system,I believe it's fair to say contemplated that commerciallyowned ventures of foreign States would be subject to suit,that --QUESTION: I -- I thought -- I remember whenthey enacted the FSIA. I was around, and I -- I recollectquite vividly that its object was to bring United States th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC domestic law into conformity with the new, acceptedinternational determination of when -- when sovereignimmunity should be respected and when it shouldn't, and ifthat's the case, and if you acknowledge that the generalprinciple internationally is not to go beyond theownership of the immediate company, then I don't know whylanguage which -- which is susceptible of that meaningshouldn't be given that meaning.MR. PADEN: I think there's an answer to thatquestion, Your Honor. In -- in foreign nations, an entitywould be subject to suit, but it would typically besubject to suit -- I don't think there are too manyforeign countries that have our Federalist system, andcertainly not too many foreign countries that have ourdeeply ingrained right to a jury trial. Congress, for themost part, was saying these suits should go forward.One of the purposes of the act was to bringcommercially owned ventures of foreign States within thesubject of -- of litigation and make them susceptible toclaims, but Congress said that in doing that, because ofpotential sensitivities that could exist, they wouldaccord those entities the same kinds of privileges thatthe Federal Government gets when the Federal Governmentwaives its immunity, so that --QUESTION: How can they be sensitive to th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC something that they're willing to do to us? I mean,the -- the potential sensitivity, if -- if they would holdthe United States liable in such a situation, I mean,would -- would not recognize sovereign immunity of the --of the indirectly owned United States entity, how couldthey be offended by our doing the same?MR. PADEN: My sense is that the Congress'concern about sensitivities was -- was a little differentthan that. I don't think the notion was offense at beingsued. I think the notion is that foreign States wouldhave a -- an -- a -- an interest, potentially -- not inevery single case, but potentially significant interest inthe manner and treatment of claims against entitiesthat -- that they owned. They may have --QUESTION: Is your point that there are no other countries that have our dual Federal system with Statecourts and Federal courts, so you're not urging thatthere's substantive sovereign immunity. You're saying, onthe jurisdiction side, you should have a right, orCongress meant to give you a right to have access toFederal court rather than State court.MR. PADEN: That's correct, Your Honor. There -- there are cases, but I think they're quite rare,where a commercial entity might actually be able tocontend that it has immunity, but for the most part, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Congress was thinking --QUESTION: Are you contending that here?MR. PADEN: Well, we've pled it in our answer,Your Honor, but the issue has -- has not been crossed inthis particular case, because the judge in -- in thedistrict court held that we weren't even a foreign State,so the question didn't even arise.There are -- whether or not an entity is immune,of course, if it is a foreign State, depends upon whetherone of the exceptions in the statute applies, and thecommercial activity exception requires direct effects onthe United States, and so forth. There's -- there areissues of treaty waivers, there are a number of issues --QUESTION: For purposes of your argument now,can we assume that you are not claiming the substantive immunity and the question is a forum question, whether youcan have access to a Federal forum?MR. PADEN: I think you can assume that, YourHonor, but I think --QUESTION: Counsel for -- I'm just not sure weever get to this question. This statute, the foreignsovereign immunity statute is written in the presenttense. It talks about an entity that is a separate legalperson, and a majority of whose shares or other ownershipinterest is owned by a foreign State, and when the action th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC was filed, there was no such ownership, so how do we evenget to the first question?MR. PADEN: We get to the first question, YourHonor, because the use of the present tense does notclearly indicate the point in time at which the presenttense exists. This statute uses the present tense in manycircumstances in some of the subsequent provisions thatdiscuss immunity to discuss actions that clearly tookplace at the time the events arose.QUESTION: Well, what do we do with diversityjurisdiction? Supposing a person -- supposing diversityjurisdiction exists at the time the suit is filed, but bythe time it gets up on appeal, it does not?MR. PADEN: I don't -- the font, thejurisdictional font of this statute, Your Honor is not diversity, it's Federal question. This --QUESTION: No, but I -- I would like to knowjust for purposes of analogy, the -- when something existsat the time the suit is filed, but is lost during itsprocess.MR. PADEN: I think that's going to have to bean issue that is decided in -- in cases as they develop. There have been some cases where entities were privatizedduring the course of litigations, and courts, I believe,have consistently held that in that case, the immunity -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC the Foreign Sovereign Immunities Act jurisdictionalpremise is not lost because it existed at the time of theclaim.The preponderant case law here, Your Honor, hasbeen to look either to the time of the acts that gave riseto the claim, or to the time of the filing of the suit,and there's a -- a nice opinion by Judge Kaplan in theSouthern District, in -- in the Belgrade case, which kindof synthesizes those cases.We -- the -- in the jurisdictional determinationunder this statute, the way it's structured, a court veryfrequently has to look at the acts giving rise to theclaim in order even to decide if it has jurisdiction,because, as Your Honor will recall, in section ,jurisdiction depends upon a determination, a) that a party is a foreign State, and b) that one of the exceptionsapplies, and most of those exceptions require anexamination, whether or not the acts that gave rise to theclaim were commercial in nature, where they took place, sothat the -- it's not at all unusual in the context of thisstatute to say that the actions that gave rise to theclaim are the point of reference for the jurisdictionaldetermination.QUESTION: Why -- why would we do that? Ifwe -- if we took your view, there are quite a few th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC jurisdictional statutes, I guess, which talk about actionagainst a foreign State. Wouldn't we then have to readall those to say they mean actions against a formerforeign State, so if you sued Illyria or Bohemia, youwould suddenly discover you could get into Federal court,while if you don't take your -- your approach, you'd saythe -- the question of -- that you're worried about willarise when they get to the substance of the issue in theState court.MR. PADEN: Your Honor, we think that looking atthe time of the events that gave rise to the claim is theapproach that most closely comports with the policies andpurposes behind this act.What Congress was sensitive about is when theactions of foreign State instrumentalities are called before the courts of the United States to be adjudicated,and Congress indicated that there were sensitivities inthose situations that -- should be respected by accordinga broad right to hear in court --QUESTION: What's -- what's the sensitivity ifsomebody decides to sue Czarist Russia?MR. PADEN: Well, there's probably a statute oflimitations claims on that, Your Honor, but I think thequestion is whether the -- whether the acts that gave riseto the claim are at issue in the case, and I don't think th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC it's difficult to imagine --QUESTION: You know, there -- I -- I just don'tagree with you that that's -- that's the policy of theUnited States. There -- apart from who can get intoFederal court, there -- there is in Federal law a thingcalled the Act of State Doctrine under which we will -- wewill honor and accept the action of a foreign countryconducted within its own borders and will not allow thatto be challenged in a suit in the United States. It'sa -- it's a longstanding doctrine, and yet we do --certainly do not say that any time an act of State isinvolved in a piece of litigation, there's Federaljurisdiction.This act doesn't seek to do that. It seems tome the Federal jurisdiction has nothing to do with whether the actions of a foreign State are the -- are the subjectmatter of the litigation, but rather whether the foreignState is a party to the litigation.MR. PADEN: Well, Your Honor, except for JudgeKozinski below, every circuit court that has looked atthis and looked at the legislative history has concluded,as did the ABA working group, which recently did anextensive study of this statute, and that group was madeup of prominent international relations professors andpractitioners, that actions of foreign States remain th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC potentially politically sensitive even after an entity issold.The potential here is the point. This is kindof a prophylactic statute. I don't think anybody's sayingthat in each and every case, there will be intense foreignrelations issues, but I -- for example, the foreign Statemay very well have ongoing financial obligations forpre-privatization acts. That's the case with one of theamici before the Court today in the State of France.QUESTION: Mr. Paden, if you would lookparticularly to the diversity statute, and now there'sa -- a provision that expressly deals with a foreignState, everything else in diversity, you would agree, itdepends on the time suit was brought, and so if you movedin the interim -- there was diversity when it happened, but you move in the interim, when the complaint is filedthere's no more diversity.I take it you're asking us, within the very samestatute, (a), to interpret a foreign State differentlyso that its nationality at the time of suit doesn't count,only at the time of the act, and that would be anomalouswithin very same provision, (a), that you would treatone one way, citizens of different States, that has to beas of the time the complaint is filed, but a foreign Stateonly at the time the event occurred. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. PADEN: Well, two responses, if I may. First of all, we're not suggesting that it should only bethe time of the events that gave rise to the claim. Webelieve the appropriate rule is the rule expressed in theconsensus of case law today, that it would be either thetime the claim was filed, or the time of the acts.But your question about section -- section is -- is a very good question.QUESTION: It was I'm --MR. PADEN: , that refers to claims byforeign States. When a foreign State entity is -- is aplaintiff and chooses to come to this Court.The -- the statute that we're alluding to iswhen -- when people are trying to assert claims againstthese entities and -- and bring them into court and have their actions adjudicated in courts that the State --QUESTION: So you're saying in court -- to be aplaintiff, the foreign State would have to be -- it wouldhave to be a foreign entity at the time suit was brought?MR. PADEN: The instrumentality has a choicewhether or not to come to court in that circumstance, YourHonor, and invoke -- and -- and --QUESTION: It's not a question of whether it --it chooses to. It -- does it have access?MR. PADEN: The -- the -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: In other words, does it have toqualify as a foreign instrumentality when it brings thesuit?MR. PADEN: I don't think --QUESTION: Suppose it's been privatized. Can itcome into Federal court and say, we were at the time ofthis incident that we're suing about?MR. PADEN: I believe that if the acts at -- atstake took place at the time it was a foreign sovereign,it should be able to do that, Your Honor.QUESTION: Those are -- then you areinterpreting within the very same statute a citizen of aState would be treated one way, or a -- a -- an entitythat was once a foreign State but is no longer would betreated another way?MR. PADEN: That's correct. I think thequestion -- whether or not an entity is a foreign State,the analysis is the same, but for purposes of when thatanalysis is pertinent, it may be different. It may bedifferent when we're talking about what -- the rules aboutexecution of judgments than at the time of filing a claim.The -- the opposite rule, we think, leads togreater anomalies. Under the opposite rule, you --there's a very clear prospect. There's almost aninevitability that liabilities attributable to acts of th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC State instrumentalities are going to be adjudicatedoutside the structure and protections of this act. Statecourt juries all around the country will be sitting injudgment on acts of State-owned entities, and that isfundamentally contrary to what Congress wanted to -- tohave happen.In this very case I think we -- we posed ahypothetical that, if we just change the factssignificantly but slightly, if -- if Dead Sea Bromine wasthe sole manufacturer of the toxic, the pesticide at issuein this case, and if Dead Sea Bromine, the acts of a -- aninstrumentality of the State of Israel, closely monitoredand overseen through the Government company's lawstructure, have been alleged to be the sole manufacturerof this product, the man -- the party that sought and obtained approvals through, as alleged in the complaint,not being entirely candid about known health risks, hadknowingly marketed it in the Third World, had been --whose actions had been called appalling by Senator Leahyin a public hearing, if that entity was on trial before alot of different juries in various parts of Texas andLouisiana, being called up as a Israeli chemical companywho had done all these things, I think it's not at alldifficult to imagine that the State of Israel might havesome interest in that case. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: Well, you've made another significantchange, because it wasn't the plaintiffs who brought theIsraeli corporations into this action. The plaintiffssued Dole, I thought, and Dole impleaded the Israelicompany.MR. PADEN: That's definitely true, Your Honor,but I'm simply trying to show that there could be ahypothetical situation that's not entirely far-fetched,where -- where a State's ongoing interest in litigationagainst an entity for acts that took place when the Statehad responsibility for it in the sense that it owned it,were at stake.QUESTION: Well, but if the State gives up thecorporation, and no longer is part of it, I would havethought that that's just one of the risks that they'd have to run. Why -- why -- I mean, they -- if they want -- ifthey're worried about it, keep control of the corporation. If you're not that worried about it, then when you releasethe corporation, you're subject to a lot of State courtlawsuits. Is that -- why is that --MR. PADEN: Well --QUESTION: I can't get much of a feeling one wayor the other about that, to tell you the truth. I --I don't -- can you say something that will make it quiteclear that would be a terrible thing? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. PADEN: That's clearly a policy judgment,and what we're left with is this -- the wording of thestatute and the purposes and policies that lay behind it,and we think that with that information before us,Congress' concern about the risk and the sensitivitiesboth in terms of uniform -- the desirability for uniformdecisions and potential risks and bias that can take placein multifarious State court juries, those were to be notpresent when we were going to allow claims to go forwardagainst State entities, and where the acts at issue arethe acts of the State entity, those same interests wouldseem to be implicated.Many States -- privatization, of course, is afairly widespread phenomenon in the last decade, and whathappened to our client has happened to many formerly State majority-owned entities.QUESTION: And a lot of those tort claims aregoing to be for continuing actions, so in your view, ifthe chemical is disseminated partly while the State is theowner of the company and partly while it isn't, then whathappens?MR. PADEN: If -- so long as within theallegations of the complaint, actions of a foreign Stateinstrumentality are at stake, then it should be within theclaim. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Your Honor, this case poses an even, I thinkmore stark example. As -- as noted by the court below,this particular litigation is, I think in Judge Kozinski'swords, one part of a large broadbased litigation, I thinkhe used the word war.The Delgado case out of the Fifth Circuit was --it arose out of cases that began in in Texas, basedon the same claims, based upon the same structure ofparties, and at that time we were majority-owned byIsrael, so under the rule propounded by the respondentsand the Solicitor General there would be Federaljurisdiction over the -- that part of the cases, but ifsomeone waited to sue until later, there wouldn't be. I think Credit Lyonnais seems to be in the same position,based upon the -- the information in the -- in the amicus brief.QUESTION: Mr. Paden, because --QUESTION: I have one -- one small proceduralquestion. Why is Dole properly before us? I want to makeyou feel welcome here, but --[Laughter.]MR. PADEN: I do, Your Honor.QUESTION: You -- you impleaded -- you impleadedthe Dead Sea Companies, and they're the ones --MR. PADEN: I'm -- I represent Dead Sea, Your th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Honor.QUESTION: Oh, you represent Dead Sea?MR. PADEN: Yes. Dole is --QUESTION: Why -- why is Dole properly here?MR. PADEN: Dole, I believe -- Dole isinterested in -- in confirming the jurisdiction of theFederal court over this case and the jurisdiction of theFederal court will be established if our position isestablished, and to this extent, we have a common interestin this case, apart from --QUESTION: Did you -- did you join in removing,or did Dole file the removal petition?MR. PADEN: We filed the removal petition, YourHonor. I believe that Dole filed a supplemental removalpetition on different grounds alleging Federal question jurisdiction, which --QUESTION: Right. That's how it got up to theNinth Circuit.QUESTION: Yes, and -- and Dole was dismissed onthat -- on that ground, and that hasn't been appealed.MR. PADEN: Correct. That's --QUESTION: That -- that hasn't been brought --MR. PADEN: That's correct.QUESTION: And is there diverse -- there's nodiversity because there isn't complete diversity? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. PADEN: Yes, that's correct, Your Honor.QUESTION: I see.MR. PADEN: If I may, I'd like to reserve therest of my time for rebuttal.QUESTION: Very well, Mr. Paden.Mr. Massey, we'll hear from you.ORAL ARGUMENT OF JONATHAN S. MASSEYON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTSMR. MASSEY: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court:I'd like to begin with the first questionpresented. Owning shares of stock in a parent corporationin our view should not be equated with owning shares inthe subsidiary. I'd like to deal with the text of theact, the structure, and its purposes, beginning with the distinctive text of (b)(), which, as Justice Ginsburgnoted, does not refer to ownership in the abstract, itrefers to a special legal kind of ownership. It says, amajority of shares or other ownership interests and, inusing that familiar phraseology of corporate law, it'sborrowing something which is related to the Meyer opinion,I think, that Justice Breyer delivered this morning, thenotion that there's a degree of separateness between acorporation and a shareholder. That case, as we heard it,turned on the liabilities that the shareholder would not th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC bare --QUESTION: Well, what -- what is the phrase thatyou say is familiar from corporate law?MR. MASSEY: Well, the concept of a majority ofshares. concept?QUESTION: Are you talking about a phrase, or aMR. MASSEY: Well, the phrase in particular,Your Honor.QUESTION: Okay.MR. MASSEY: The -- as -- I'm sorry, theconcept.QUESTION: So you're not saying that the phrase,shares or other ownership interest, is a familiarphrase --MR. MASSEY: Phrase -- no, Your Honor, I'msaying it's a concept, the concept of what it means to owna majority of shares in a corporation and, in particular,(b)() is written from the perspective of thesubsidiary. It's written from a bottom-up perspective,rather than a top-down perspective, and it asks, from thesubsidiary's perspective, who owns the majority of itsshares and it is, in our view, the corporate entity whichsits directly atop the subsidiary, rather than the foreignState, which may stand several tiers removed. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC It's sort of telling that in the Dead SeaCompany's own corporate disclosure statement, they list astheir -- as the owner of Dead Sea -- Israel ChemicalsLimited, which is the company which sits directly aboveDead Sea Bromine. The corporate disclosure statement thengoes on to say that Israel Chemicals Limited is, in turn,held by another company, which is the Israel Corporation,and it doesn't claim that the Israel -- it doesn't statethat the Israel Corporation is the owner of Dead SeaBromine. That's just the natural way we talk about it inthe -- in the -- especially in the corporate law realm,which Congress was adopting in (b) -- (b)().There are several textual clues in section that Congress was adopting the principle of corporateseparateness. (b)() requires that a corporation be -- a -- a showing that the agency be a separate legalperson.(b), which governs attachments, limitsattachments of property to claims against the particularagency or instrumentality against whom the claim israised, and this Court, in the First National Citibankcase, held that the -- under the FSIA, the -- the propertyand assets of a foreign-owned corporation are distinctfrom the property and assets of the foreign State itself,so this is not even a case like Bestfoods, where this th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Court said that Congress' silence was audible in -- inthat Congress was legislating against these backgroundcorporate law principles. Here, there are quite cleartextual signs that Congress was adopting a principle ofcorporate law.Now, the primary argument on the other side,this is a -- the indirect shareholding is a form of otherownership interest, and I -- we think that is not a properreading of this statute. As Justice Kennedy pointed out,there are other forms of ownership interests in the world. There are shares in an oil venture. The Tennessee ValleyAuthority, for example, doesn't have stock. The FederalGovernment simply owns it. The stock has been retired.Congress was dealing here with foreign legalsystems which may have different ways of framing equity interests. Socialist countries, for example, you canimagine there might not be shares, so in our view thephrase, other ownership interests, is meant to take intoaccount those sorts of equity holdings, so in this case --QUESTION: Because? Because?MR. MASSEY: Well, because Congress was dealingwith other foreign owners, other --QUESTION: You know, I mean --MR. MASSEY: Yes.QUESTION: -- nobody doubts that there are other th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ways of owning corporations. They're just saying, oneother way of owning it is like, under the Public UtilityHolding Company Act, you have a -- a pyramid of shareswith intervening corporations. They're not saying that'sthe only other way. They're saying that's one other way,and then you say, no, that one other way is not anotherway, because?MR. MASSEY: Because there -- we believe it's --there are two reasons, primarily. First, is -- the firstpart of the phrase, shares, already takes care of stock. It would be unreasonable, in our view, to say indirectstock counts as other --QUESTION: Because?MR. MASSEY: Because stock is not an other kindof interest.QUESTION: Because?MR. MASSEY: Because it's already been listed --QUESTION: No -- nobody's saying stock is.MR. MASSEY: Sure.QUESTION: What they're saying is, stock inintervening corporations organized in certain ways --MR. MASSEY: Right.QUESTION: -- as under the Public UtilityHolding Company Act, is one other way, and I still haven'theard the word -- you see, that's why I keep asking, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC because.MR. MASSEY: Right.QUESTION: Because to me it's an unusual way,not that unusual. The -- the law books are filled withcases involving that, under the act I cited, and -- and sothey say, that's one way.MR. MASSEY: That --QUESTION: Now I want to know why that isn't oneway.MR. MASSEY: Because it --QUESTION: One other way.MR. MASSEY: Right. First, because it's stillstock. Even if it's indirectly held, it's still stock.QUESTION: And I don't quite see that,because --MR. MASSEY: Well --QUESTION: Go ahead.MR. MASSEY: Okay, and then second is, you'reabsolutely right, the law books are filled, the U.S. Codeis filled with many other phrasings of direct, indirectreferences to affiliates, references to beneficialownership, all the kinds of things, a control test, asJustice Stevens mentioned, all the kinds of things thatcould capture this kind of interest, but instead we havethe very distinctive phrasing that says, stock, and in our th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC view, once you count stock first as a direct majorityownership, you shouldn't go back and count it again as anindirect form.QUESTION: Now --MR. MASSEY: The other ought to be reserved --QUESTION: -- I know that's your -- your view.MR. MASSEY: I know. I know.QUESTION: Now -- but let me push the because --MR. MASSEY: Yes.QUESTION: -- one step further. Suppose Ithought that the word, other ownership interest, is atleast open to this unusual type of arrangement as one formof ownership interest.MR. MASSEY: Right.QUESTION: Still you should say, you shouldn't interpret it that way, because?MR. MASSEY: Because the number of principlesthat animate the statute, first, this is a jurisdictionalstatute. Jurisdictional statutes should be construedprecisely with clear, bright line rules and, in our view,the -- the kind of direct legal ownership of stock is akind of bright line rule and the Court should not departfrom it.Second, the statute already contains, in thefirst clause of (b)(), the -- the so-called Oregon th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC test. The Oregon test captures governmental entitieswhich perform sovereign functions which are staffed byGovernment employees over which the Government has asignificant degree of control. That's not at issue inthis case. That was decided both by -- in both courtsbelow adverse to the petitioners, and it's not before thisCourt, but that clause would capture all of thestereotypical cases at the heart of the Foreign SovereignImmunities Act, so we ought not stretch this part of thestatute to cover it.QUESTION: All right, now if I think it is not astretch, but just another form of ownership --MR. MASSEY: Right.QUESTION: -- I'm putting this hypothetically --MR. MASSEY: Right.QUESTION: -- I then go on to think, you know,I cannot think of a reason in the world, not even one, noteven a shadow of one, as to why Congress would have wantedto say, when country X owns business A, it gets intoFederal court, but when everything is the same, but for astack of papers this thick which puts a bunch ofintervening paper corporations between A and Z, it doesn'twant it to get into Federal court, I think what couldthey -- what human being could possibly think of anyconceivable reason for drawing that difference, and at th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC that point -- I'm putting it as strongly as I can --I come up with a blank. I can't think of one.I used to have relatives who had little tinycorporations, and the number in between was a matter oftax law or something. It was the same person sitting atthe same desk --MR. MASSEY: Right.QUESTION: -- doing the same thing.MR. MASSEY: Right.QUESTION: Now, I put it as strongly as I can.MR. MASSEY: Right, and of course Congress is --Congress has to legislate by category. It's not simplydealing with the example of percent subsidiaries. Congress is drawing a general rule and, as a general rule,the -- the line it drew was reasonable because Congress was interested in facilitating suits against foreignStates in the United States courts. That's one of thepurposes that's laid out in in the statute, andreading the statute the petitioners' way would disservethose purposes.First, it would impose important proceduralburdens on litigants that Congress did not want to impose. It would eliminate traditional State long arm statutes. It would eliminate the right to jury trial. It wouldcreate immunity questions, because once immunity is th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC invoked --QUESTION: Why -- why would it eliminate theright to jury trial?MR. MASSEY: Well, under the FSIA, once a --a -- an entity is deemed to be a foreign State, the rightto jury trial is lost, even if an exception to immunity issubsequently found to apply.It would -- the -- the other burdens it imposes,it eliminates the traditional attachment provisionthat's --QUESTION: Of course it does have a few -- butnonetheless my question is, what conceivable reason couldthere be for saying those special advantages disappearwhen there is country A, and when there is country A to Z,since the only difference between A and A to Z, I'd repeat, is a bunch of paper?MR. MASSEY: Well, again, as I said, Congress isnot just legislating with that specific example of percent subsidiaries, it's using a -- the generalcategory. It -- it has to operate by general rule.I think other examples, though, would show thatwhen you have multiple tiers, there -- the surprise factorsignificantly increases. Congress was concerned thatlitigants would be surprised to discover that they werenot dealing with an ordinary commercial entity but, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC rather, a foreign State, and that surprise factorincreases as you go down the corporate tier to the nthtier.Also, there are potentially complex factualinquiries as you go down the -- a -- a tier. In thiscase, there are organization charts which show how theshareholdings have been computed, but consider, whenownership is not expressed through shares but through somepercentage of assets or partnership interests which arenot going to be reflected in a shareholder ledger, but aregoing to be the potential subject of controversy in acourt, and I think the potential for factual disputesincreases.QUESTION: Mr. Massey --MR. MASSEY: Yes.QUESTION: -- we're trying to find out, notwas -- what Congress did was reasonable --MR. MASSEY: Yes.QUESTION: -- but what did Congress do.MR. MASSEY: Of course.QUESTION: Of course if it -- what it did wasreasonable, that -- nobody would doubt that that would befine, and in determining what -- what Congress did, thepetitioners pointed to a number of statutes that use theword, directly, when they meant to cut out the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC subsidiaries.MR. MASSEY: Yes.QUESTION: They say, shares, or -- or a companydirectly owned by, and this statute is silent. It doesn'tsay, directly owned.MR. MASSEY: That -- that's -- that's correct,Your Honor. In our view, Congress didn't have to usedirectly, because it was using this familiar corporateconcept of a majority ownership of shares. That impliesdirect, because the owner of a majority of shares in -- inthis tiering relationship is the corporation immediatelyabove the subsidiary, it's not --QUESTION: Is there any context in which we haveheld that a majority ownership of shares, that -- thatphrase is satisfied by -- by second-tier ownership? MR. MASSEY: Where this Court has held it?QUESTION: Yes.MR. MASSEY: I'm -- I'm not aware of any -- ofany case, Your Honor.QUESTION: Do you plan to address the otherquestion --MR. MASSEY: Yes.QUESTION: -- in the case?MR. MASSEY: Yes, Your Honor. Let me do thatright now, because I think the timing question is -- is a th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC independent way of resolving this case.Ever since , when Chief Justice Marshallannounced Mollan against Torrance, the rule has been thatjurisdiction is determined as of the date of filing thecomplaint. The Chief Justice asked, what is the rule indiversity cases? Well, since Anderson and Watt in ,diversity cases have been held to be -- to be governed bythat rule, and the response we hear is that this is aFederal question case, but, of course, even Federalquestion cases are governed by the familiar rule that thedate is given by the -- the filing of the complaint. That's -- United States against Keene Corporation in reflected that principle.And as Justice Ginsburg noted, even if someparts of the act are a Federal question, it's also telling that in (a)(), Congress created a new species ofdiversity jurisdiction, so accepting the petitioners'argument here would lead to the anomalous situation wherethere's a diversity part of the statute that's going to begoverned by the Mollan against Torrance rule, and therewill be a Federal question part of the statute that wouldbe governed by a different rule.QUESTION: Mr. Paden said that that (a)() wouldbe interpreted by the different rule, so he's beingconsistent with -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. MASSEY: Okay -- well, I misunderstood. I apologize, but then that also means that there are somediversity rules that are being interpreted one way, andother diversity rules being interpreted a different way. Either way, there's an anomaly, and it appears to us thesimplest way to resolve it would simply be to adhere tothe longstanding principle that the date on which thecomplaint is filed is the relevant time to take asnapshot.That's also more administratively feasible,because you can imagine that the rule of when theunderlying conduct occurred is a -- is a -- might bedifficult to determine in some cases. In this --QUESTION: Or it might also extend over aconsiderable period of time.MR. MASSEY: That's correct, Your Honor. I agree completely.And so it's -- it's more reasonable to assumeCongress was legislating against the backgroundunderstanding that the date of filing of the complaintwould be determinative. It used the present tense in. In (d), which is the removal provision at issuehere, it talked about a case against a foreign State, andin our view, it's more reasonable, it's more naturallyread to think that a case is a case against a foreign th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC State only if the entity actually is a foreign State atthe time, as opposed to being Czarist Russia., which is the special service provision,also indicates that Congress is contemplating entitiesthat actually were foreign States, because --QUESTION: Well, their point, though, is that,first my examples were slightly absurd, and -- which theywere -- and secondly, that in any real case where -- whereyou have, say, Communist Russia you're suing, or -- ormore recent former States, you're -- you're actually suingthe State, and the -- the defense is, but that State nolonger exists, like Bosnia or something.There are a few things that are more involved inforeign relationships, and -- and boy, to suddenly throwthat to State courts is a total nightmare if you're really worried about the foreign State, so even though itcreates differences between the diversity jurisdiction andthe other, we better keep these in Federal court, or we'reall in trouble. I mean, that's what I took them to say.MR. MASSEY: Right. Well, I think the -- theanswer to the jurisdiction point and the sort of Statecourt point is that they're already is a provision in thediversity statute, (a)(), I believe it is, that dealswith citizens of foreign countries, so there's alreadydiversity jurisdiction for suits against foreign th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC corporations after they've been privatized. They would beable -- any claim against the Government would beprotected by the act of State doctrine, as Justice Scalianoted. There could be no -- of course, no directliability imposed --QUESTION: It works all right with thecorporations, but what if you're actually suing the State,which still has some assets somewhere? How does thatwork?MR. MASSEY: Well, that, of course, isn't --that's not going to be before this Court today, but --QUESTION: Oh, no, but if we go into the foreignState, former foreign States don't count, we've decidedthat, and so I -- just curious. I don't want to do itblindly.MR. MASSEY: Well, no, I'm -- we're not askingyou to decide anything about -- about former foreignStates. I think --QUESTION: Is there a reading that -- thatthrows out the corporation that used to be owned but nowisn't by a foreign State, but keeps the former foreignState within?MR. MASSEY: Well, the -- the whole immunitythat foreign States enjoy is governed by and ,and -- and the provision that we're focusing here is -- is th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC just the definition of agency and instrumentality, so I --I think this Court could safely leave for another day theissue of the former foreign State. It -- it's not atthe -- it's not in the provision that we are asking thisCourt to interpret, and -- and it's governed by differentprovisions which Your Honors could -- could leave foranother day.QUESTION: Mr. Massey, practically, is it so inthese litigations that if you can't remove to the Federalcourt, the State courts keep them and try them, whereas ifyou remove them to the Federal court, they are thendismissed on forum nonconvenience?MR. MASSEY: Well, it's -- undoubtedly the forumnonconvenience defense would be raised in State court aswell. In this case, the -- no proceedings of any substance have occurred, so nobody --QUESTION: But in this category of case --MR. MASSEY: Yes.QUESTION: -- is that the general pattern?MR. MASSEY: That is the -- yes, that's thegeneral pattern. It's -- that's correct and, of course,I think there would also be an immunity asserted. TheDead Sea petitioners have preserved that. It's in jointappendix , and -- and the -- the issue of whether theywould be entitled to immunity, or whether the commercial th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC activity exception would apply or something, hasn't beenlitigated yet.QUESTION: When was the Foreign SovereignImmunities Act passed?MR. MASSEY: , Your Honor.QUESTION: We presumably lived, then, for years without it, these cases being tried in State court?MR. MASSEY: That's correct, Your Honor. The --the -- under the -- the prevailing doctrine of theseparate entity rule, any separate unit or corporation wasnot entitled to immunity, that's correct, and it wasgoverned by, after the Tate letter, which the --which the State Department issue didn't -- this Court hasdescribed the procedural history in Verlinden, but you'reabsolutely correct, Your Honor.I -- I think that in the -- at the end of theday, what -- what is at issue here is a statute whichCongress adapted in , set outting out -- setting outthe purposes to facilitate suits against foreign entities,and also, as Justice Scalia noted, it referred toprinciples of international law in , and here,we're -- the petitioners are asking this Court toaggravate the difference between U.S. law and the law ofevery other country.These petitioners do not receive immunity even th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC in the courts of Israel or anywhere else, and the concernsabout State courts and juries could be addressed throughother provisions which enact -- which are enacted in thediversity statute which govern every other corporation inthe world.If there are no further questions --QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. Massey.Mr. Minear, we'll hear from you.ORAL ARGUMENT OF JEFFREY P. MINEARON BEHALF OF THE UNITED STATES, AS AMICUS CURIAE,SUPPORTING THE RESPONDENTSMR. MINEAR: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice, andmay it please the Court:Congress enacted the FSIA against the backdropof venerable corporate law principles, including the principle that a parent corporation and subsidiary aredistinct, and that the shareholders of a parentcorporation are not the shareholders of a subsidiarycorporation. We submit that the FSIA refers to shareownership in that familiar legal sense.Viewed in that light, a foreign State's majorityownership of the shares of a parent gives the foreignState control over the subsidiary, but it does not givethat foreign State ownership of the subsidiary's shares. If Congress had intended that the FSIA would extend agency th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC or instrumentality status to the foreign State's controlof the subsidiary, it could easily have said exactly that.QUESTION: Well, they don't think of thesethings all the time, so -- so what -- what about -- theyjust don't. It's -- and that's -- we have -- that's whywe have a difficult problem, so I wondered, with thelanguage, and nobody accepts -- I just want to know thereason for this, and I'm sure it's not a tenableinterpretation, because nobody's advanced it, but if youlook at the first part, literally speaking, it says aforeign State includes an instrumentality of a foreignState, and so an instrumentality of a foreign State, is,among other things, a corporation, the majority of sharesof which the foreign state owns. And that's true as tothe first corporation in the tier, A. Well, now, since Ais included in the term, foreign State, it therefore is aforeign State. That's what it says. And therefore, B isa company whose shares, the majority of which are owned bya foreign State, and so forth down the line.Now, literally, that's what it says, and sowhat's wrong if I can't think of any reason why they'dwant a difference, and the -- that language literallycovers it, what's wrong with that?MR. MINEAR: There's a very strong textualindication that that's not a correct reading, and that is th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC found in section (b)(), where it speaks of a majorityof whose shares or other ownership interest is owned bythe foreign State, or political subdivision thereof.QUESTION: Yes.MR. MINEAR: Now, obviously, if Congress hadintended that recursive use that you've described, theywould not have included, political subdivision thereof,which is also a part of a foreign State and, in fact, thatprovision excludes agency or instrumentality.We think what the Court can draw from this isthat Congress was using foreign State in a very strictsense of simply a foreign nation.QUESTION: Or -- but you're referring there backto the intent of Congress. I see that linguistic point,but if we're referring back to the intent of Congress, I'm back to my question I asked before, what possible intentof Congress could the interpretation that you advancefurther? I mean, what reason is there? The samequestions I asked before. I'm just --MR. MINEAR: We think --QUESTION: -- you've got me back to that becauseof your response, which referred to the intent ofCongress.MR. MINEAR: We think there are two very clearreasons. First of all, Congress was drawing a bright th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC line. We think that Congress wanted to avoid litigationover where to litigate. Nothing's more wasteful thanthat -- and by doing so it spoke to ownership of majorityof shares in the traditional legal sense, which provides avery bright line rule.We also think that this -- this reading mustbe -- must take into account that we're not speakingsolely of the interest of foreign nations, but also of theinterest of American litigants. Congress was trying tostrike a balance between the two, and the balance that wesuggest here is one that recognizes that Americanlitigants have an interest in a clear delineation of whois entitled to foreign sovereign status and who is not. We think our interpretation reflects both of thoseconcerns.QUESTION: But the statute does refer to otherownership interests.MR. MINEAR: Yes, it --QUESTION: Other forms of ownership. What doesthat cover, then?MR. MINEAR: Again, Your Honor, we think that itought to be -- that this term ought to be interpreted interms of a -- a test that provides a bright line rule. Wethink other ownership interest refers to something that isan alternative to shares, such as, as Justice Kennedy has th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC described in ownership in -- in a joint venture.We don't think that Congress intended tocomplicate the inquiry by making inquiries into whethersomething that is sometimes described as control should betreated as a different type of ownership interest. Wethink that here, that what Congress was seeking wasclarity, and the interpretation that we're providing isdesigned to provide that clarity for foreign nations andfor American litigants as well.Now, we think it's important to remember thatCongress drew this line with the understanding thatforeign instrumentalities is a narrow term, particularlyas used by foreign nations. Foreign nations by and largewould not provide immunity to corporations. We believethat Congress took the step of extending it to a first-tier corporation, but concluded that that is wherethe line should be drawn, it should go no further, and wethink a narrow construction of this term is alsoappropriate in -- in the face of the fact that Congress isgranting a special privilege, a comity-based privileged,that not ought to be extended beyond what other foreignnations recognize in applying their immunity laws to theUnited States.This is particularly so when the constructionthat we urge is very unlikely to lead to foreign friction th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC with other nations. Because, as -- because foreignnations do not recognize the immunity that's being soughthere in their own courts, it's very unlikely that theywill object to our recognition of nonimmunity on the samebasis in our courts.Now, even if this Court concluded that the FSIAgranted agency or instrumentality status to subsidiaries,the Dead Sea companies would still not qualify because, asnoted before, they did -- did not have that status at thetime that this suit was brought. We think that thediversity statute model provides the appropriate testhere.Diversity jurisdiction is predicated on whetheror not the parties are diverse at the time the suit isbrought. It's based on the status of the parties. Likewise, jurisdiction that is based on the status of aforeign entity ought to be determined at the foreignownership's --QUESTION: How do you deal with somebody whosues Yugoslavia, as a State? I mean, they find someassets owned by Yugoslavia, they go sue them.MR. MINEAR: I think --QUESTION: What -- that goes to a -- WestVirginia State court?MR. MINEAR: I think the question here is, who th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC exactly are they suing?QUESTION: They're suing Yugoslavia. That'sthe --MR. MINEAR: They might be suing --QUESTION: -- the -- it says, defendant,Yugoslavia.MR. MINEAR: But that suit most likely has to beserved on someone, and it's likely --QUESTION: There is somebody over there whoclaims to be the recipient of lawsuits -- I mean, we couldeasily construct a serious problem, or you may have lookedinto it in telling me it just isn't a problem, and I'dlike to hear you say that, if that's so, because it wouldhelp.MR. MINEAR: We think it's unlikely to be a problem. I cannot say that we -- we can -- can certifythat this problem would never arise, but typically, thesetypes of suits are brought against another State that nowstands in the shoes of the former State, and there mightbe interesting questions of law with regard to theliability of that suit, but they may never be reachedbecause in that case, the suit is being brought --QUESTION: Okay, so you're telling me, andyou've looked into it, this isn't really a problem, it'stheoretical, not real? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. MINEAR: We think it is primarily atheoretical problem.We think that Congress had no compelling reasonsto provide immunity for past agencies andinstrumentalities that are no longer associated with theforeign -- foreign State. As Justice Scalia pointed out,there's other mechanisms, such as the Act of StateDoctrine, that provide protection of the foreign sovereigninterests in those cases and, in any event, a foreigncorporation, even after it has become privatized, stillhas access to Federal court jurisdiction under thealienage diversity statute, provided that it satisfiesthe -- the requirements that Congress has set forth.Finally, I'd like to note that because twoquestions are presented here, the Court does have discretion to reach both of those questions, and we thinkthat there would be an advantage in clarity in the law ifthe Court did address both the so-called tiering questionand the timing question, since they both have led todisputes among litigants in the lower courts. They --both issues have been fully briefed and, as I say, theCourt does have that power to make that determination ifit so chooses.QUESTION: Mr. Minear, I don't understand howthe Act of State Doctrine would apply to sales of Israel th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC pesticide in Central America.MR. MINEAR: It most likely would not apply --QUESTION: Yes.MR. MINEAR: -- in this situation becauseobviously, the Act of State Doctrine applies to the actsof a foreign State in --QUESTION: Within its own --MR. MINEAR: -- within -- within --QUESTION: Yes.MR. MINEAR: -- its own territory, within is ownjurisdiction.If there are no further questions, thank you,Your Honor.QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. Minear.Mr. Paden, you have minutes remaining. REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF PETER R. PADENON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERSMR. PADEN: Thank you, Your Honor.First, with respect to the phrase, ownershipinterest, Mr. Massey suggested that the issues here, andI believe Mr. Minear as well, are related to the issues inthe recently decided Meyer case, with which I confess I'mnot familiar, but I think also the Bestfoods kind of case.We think those cases are very different. Thosecases relate to liability-creating statutes and, in the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC context of a statute that creates liability, whetherCongress intended for traditional rules of corporateveil-piercing to be eased somewhat in assigning liabilityin the case of the Superfund law to the -- to the owner ofthe contaminated facility.This is not a statute that gives rise toliability. It defines a category of entities that arewithin the scope of the -- of the group that Congressintended to -- to vest with a certain limited protectionwhen they will be sued in -- in the United States, namely,a broad right to a Federal forum, and so forth.QUESTION: We -- we have always construedjurisdictional statutes quite narrowly, going all the wayback to Strawbridge against Curtis, that said you have tohave complete diversity under the diversity statute, and it seems to me you're asking for something different thanthat here.MR. PADEN: I think, Your Honor, that the -- inthe first place, of course, the statute has to beconstrued to the best one can on the words of the statuteand the congressional intent. I think there is someinteresting language. I -- I believe it's the Delta caseof the Sixth Circuit, or maybe the Texas Eastern case inthe Third Circuit -- talking about why, in the context ofthis law, there actually should be a broad interpretation th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC of diversity. Really, that's just another way of sayingbecause Congress intended to bring within it a certaindefined category of -- of entities.I think it's very hard to -- to articulate areason why Congress would have wanted to bring commercialoperations of foreign States within the scope of thestatute and say -- let me back up a moment.There was a time when Dead Sea Works was theimmediate parent of Dead Sea Bromine, and Dead Sea Workswas owned by the State of Israel. Dead Sea Works' job isto extract manganese and potassium from the Dead Sea. Dead Sea Bromine's job is to extract Dead -- bromine fromthe Dead Sea. It's impossible to come up with a rationalewhy Congress wanted Dead Sea Works to be within thepurpose -- the purview of this statute and Dead Sea Bromine not to be.QUESTION: Well, they listed two. They said,first of all it's easier for the court not to have to gothrough the morass of paper and try to figure out who ownswhat where, and the second one is that, because it's lesssurprising, at least the customers and others will know,likely, who owns the company, and know it's the State. Those were their two responses.MR. PADEN: Correct. I -- in terms of ownershipinterest, I think it's -- it's a well-known and widely th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC used phrase in our law as well as others to be a genericbroadbased term. We did a little research on somepublicly available information just to try to findcompanies that I think we can say are well-known to be --have certain relationships, and I think it's fair to say,based on news articles and so forth, that General ElectricCompany is widely understood to own NBC, the broadcastingnetwork.It turns out that General Electric Company isthe percent shareholder of a company called NBCHoldings, Inc., which is the percent shareholder ofNBC, Inc., the broadcasting company. I think the chairmanof the board of GE would be astonished to hear the UnitedStates and the respondents explain that GE does not havean ownership interest in NBC. It's --QUESTION: I think that was conceded, that forpurposes of newspapers reports, and -- yeah, we understandthat you would have five tiers down, if only one personowns it, you say, well, that person owns it, even if it'sthe fifth tier down, but the question is, in this contextof a jurisdictional statute -- and I wanted to ask youparticularly, you've just heard Mr. Minear's argument, dowe, as a Court, owe any special respect to what theexecutive tells us a statute that deals in the foreignaffairs realm means? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. PADEN: Your Honor, I think in this casethat -- that we think that the respect that is owed to theJustice and State Departments in this case is -- ismeasured by the persuasiveness of the opinions thatthey're offering. Essentially, they're offering a legalinterpretation of the meaning of the statute andcongressional intent.I don't think they've said that theinterpretation that we're offering here will impair orjeopardize the conduct of our foreign relations. In fact,the only comment in their brief about this is to note thatthere have not been frictions in foreign relations as aresult of the extant state of the law, and the extantstate of the law is really in our favor on both points.There are a number of cases where privatized entities have been held to be agencies orinstrumentalities, and certainly where tiered entitieshave been, so we think it really is a matter of ananalysis of the legal opinions about statutoryconstruction and -- and whether --QUESTION: But the -- the Government says youare the one who's saying, oh, a foreigner might beoffended by the jury trial, whatever.MR. PADEN: We're trying to honor the intent ofCongress, Your Honor. Congress -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: And -- and the Government answers no,that we don't think this is going to be disturbing foreignnations. You're the one who says that it will.MR. PADEN: I think what's salient is whatCongress said, Your Honor, and Congress said that whenclaims are brought, when we are going to allow claimsagainst foreign State entities for their commercialactivities or whatever in this country, we're going toaccord them the kinds of -- the Federal jurisdictionbreadth and lack of jury trial which we accord toourselves when we agree to be sued.QUESTION: May I ask you what the purpose offiling this lodging was, this gigantic paper? Are wesupposed to read this to figure out what the corporaterelationships were, or what was the purpose? MR. PADEN: Your Honor, that contains a lot ofvery detailed material in support of the information thatwe thought pertinent describing the particular structureof the Government companies law and the legal regimes --QUESTION: But is this typical of what adistrict judge would have to look through to figure outownership under your theory?MR. PADEN: No, sir. It doesn't --[Laughter.]MR. PADEN: -- not at all. That had nothing th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC really to do with ownership. We -- we actually originallyput that material in the record in support of our argumentthat the company was an organ of the State of Israelwithin the kind of emerging case law there, and what thatmaterial shows is the extensive, detailedinterrelationship between the Government companiesauthority in Israel.They made decisions about whether or not thecompany was going to have to use company cars, aboutwhether or not they were -- they made -- they made -- theyhad input in the operation of this company to a minutedegree of detail and to, of course, very profounddecisions such as budget decisions, who would be on theboard of directors.This company, under the Government companies law, a Government subsidiary company is treated, for allintents and purpose the same, whether it's indirectlyheld, as a Government company which is directly owned, andit -- and this detailed material is really in support ofseveral pages in our brief where we -- where we providea -- a long paragraph with a series of examples of theextent of the interrelationship between the Government ofIsrael, the ministers of finance, the Government companiesauthority, and so forth.CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: Thank you, Mr. Paden. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. PADEN: Thank you, Your Honor.CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: The case is submitted.(Whereupon, at : a.m., the case in theabove-entitled matter was submitted.) th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC 