 IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XFRANCONIA ASSOCIATES, ET AL., :Petitioners v. UNITED STATES; and :::: No. -GRASS VALLEY TERRACE, ET AL., :Petitioners v. UNITED STATES. :: :- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XWashington, D.C.Monday, April , The above-entitled matter came on for oral argument before the Supreme Court of the United States at: a.m.APPEARANCES:JEFF H. ECKLAND, ESQ., Minneapolis, Minnesota; on behalfof the Petitioners.MATTHEW D. ROBERTS, ESQ., Assistant to the SolicitorGeneral, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; onbehalf of the Respondent.Page th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC C O N T E N T SORAL ARGUMENT OF JEFF H. ECKLAND. ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioners MATTHEW D. ROBERTS, ESQ.On behalf of the Respondent REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OFJEFF H. ECKLAND, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioners PAGEPage th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC P R O C E E D I N G S(: a.m.)CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: We'll hear argumentnext in No. -, Franconia Associates v. the UnitedStates, and the Grass Valley Terrace v. United States. Mr. Eckland.ORAL ARGUMENT OF JEFF H. ECKLANDON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERSMR. ECKLAND: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court:This Court has held that statutes of limitationsinvolve fundamental considerations of fairness. Petitioners submit that the cases before Your Honors thismorning involve precisely that. In these two civil actions, petitioners seekfair compensation for continuing to be bound to theSection housing program and continuing to house low-income tenants for up to years. Petitioners cansucceed in obtaining that fair compensation only if thisCourt continues to apply the same ordinary principles oflaw to the United States Government that it applies toUnited States citizens. The ordinary principles of law and theircontinuing application to the United States Governmentthat are at issue here are, first, that a breach ofPage th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC contract claim does not accrue until the date of breach;that is, until the time for performance by the defendantarrives and the defendant fails to perform.QUESTION: Mr. Eckland, you -- you began bysaying you're seeking fair compensation for something. Which is it? Are you seeking fair compensation for theGovernment's violation of the Constitution by impairingthe obligation of contracts, or are you simply seekingyour contractual rights? Are you seeking a contractclaim? Which -- what do we have before us? MR. ECKLAND: We are -- Justice Scalia, we areseeking compensation for the breach of contract.QUESTION: Okay. So, it's a -- it's a simplecontract case.MR. ECKLAND: Very much so, Your Honor. I mean,included in the compensation that the petitioners areseeking, it was not merely the lost income because oftheir lost right to opt out, but given the situation,petitioners are not receiving really sufficient income toeven cover the costs of maintaining the housing for theircurrent tenants.QUESTION: Do you think you have a separatecause of action for the Government's violation of theConstitution, assuming that -- that you're correct thatthat's what it's done?Page th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. ECKLAND: Under the takings claim, JusticeScalia? QUESTION: Well, no, not the takings. But --but impairing the obligation of contracts.MR. ECKLAND: Oh, quite so, Your Honor, yes. Webelieve that although it's for purposes --QUESTION: This is a -- this is a Federalcontract?MR. ECKLAND: It is with the Department ofAgriculture, Your Honor, through the Farmers HomeAdministration. QUESTION: So, the impairment clause doesn'tapply. MR. ECKLAND: Well, it -- it comes -- no. Thatonly applies to the States.QUESTION: My difficulty with your argument isthat if you have -- your whole property claim here restsupon the contract. And if you have a contract claim, thenyour contract will be enforceable. If you don't have acontract claim, then I'm not sure what the source of yourproperty taking is on the -- on the unconstitutionalityclaim. MR. ECKLAND: Well, petitioners pled, JusticeSouter, the takings claim in the alternative to the breachof contract claim. And in fact, the lower courts havePage th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC held that there is no enforceable contract here.QUESTION: Well, if -- if they are correct, thenI don't see how you've got a taking because your -- yourwhole property interest -- the only property interestyou're asserting is an interest under that contract. Andif you haven't got the -- if you have no breach ofcontract, then I don't see what's being taken from you.MR. ECKLAND: What's being taken, JusticeSouter, is the expected use of the petitioners'properties. What happened is they volunteered to acertain period of time --QUESTION: If you don't have a contract for it,you have no right to expect it.MR. ECKLAND: But there were representations bythe Government that created a reasonable investment-backedexpectation on the part of --QUESTION: Why did the lower courts find thatthere was no contract claim? Because of the statute.MR. ECKLAND: Because of the -- one judge, inparticular, because of the unmistakability doctrine.QUESTION: Because of the --MR. ECKLAND: In other words, the contract wasnot clear enough to constitute an enforceable contractwith the Government. QUESTION: I thought the Federal Circuit went onPage th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC the statute of limitations. Isn't that what you'reopposing, that the statute of limitations didn't expire?MR. ECKLAND: Yes, Your Honor. The lower courtopinions were denying our motion for summary judgment, sowe've not been able to get to trial on the existence ofthe contract. Assuming for the purposes of our case thatthere is a contract, the Federal Circuit did affirm thedismissal on the basis of the statute of limitations.QUESTION: Yes. The question you presented iswhether a breach of contract claim accrues for purposes ofsection -- when Congress enacts a statute alleged toabridge a contractual right to freedom from regulatorycovenants upon prepayment of Government mortgage loans. Basically the -- the court held that your -- the statuteof limitations barred your contract claim, didn't it?MR. ECKLAND: That is true, Your Honor. QUESTION: And that's the case we have here.MR. ECKLAND: Well, in -- yes. Yes, it is,Judge, a statute of limitations case. In our case, the petitioners alleged that theirclaims accrued when they tried to prepay and when theFarmers Home Administration failed to accept theirprepayment requests and refused to release them from theregulatory covenants imposed by the Section program. Petitioners all commenced suit within years of thatPage th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC date, and therefore they maintain here that their claimsare timely.Now, the Government maintains that thepetitioners' claims accrued not on the date dictated bythe ordinary principles of law, breach of contract andtakings, but rather automatically in the enactment of the legislation. But if you look at -- closely at the legislation, it's clear that it has no immediateimpact whatsoever on the owners. All of its commands,directives, requirements, and authorizations are directedsolely at the agency. QUESTION: Didn't the Federal Circuit rely onanticipatory breach?MR. ECKLAND: No, Your Honor. They maintainedthat the actual passage of the -- of the statuteconstituted an automatic breach. They did not rely on theanticipatory breach.QUESTION: You were relying on anticipatorybreach, as I understand it. MR. ECKLAND: We do not either, Your Honor,although the petitioners here have the option of suing --assuming -- suing before the breach, assuming that theyhad the ability to perform at that time -- and there'snothing in the record --QUESTION: You rely on the notion that beforePage th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC they went to pay it off, it was an anticipatory breach.MR. ECKLAND: No, Judge. We are relying on theactual breach. All petitioners --QUESTION: I'm sorry. Then I'm confused. Ithought that your argument was that the reason the statuteof limitations doesn't arise, doesn't start to run priorto the time that they paid it off, is because prior tothat time, there was no actual breach. There was only ananticipatory breach. MR. ECKLAND: Correct, yes.QUESTION: All right. That's what I thoughtJustice Ginsburg was asking.MR. ECKLAND: Yes.QUESTION: Now, but you take the position thatyour clients could have filed suit soon after the passageof ELIHPA.MR. ECKLAND: Justice O'Connor, not necessarily. Under the doctrine of anticipatory repudiation, they didhave a option to sue before. But as we pointed out infootnote --QUESTION: Well, that's what I'm asking you. You take the position -- let's be clear about your --please -- that after the enactment of the statute, yourclients could have filed suit for breach of contract on ananticipatory breach theory? Page th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. ECKLAND: Yes, but only if they had theability to prepay at that time. One of the requirementsof -- of the contract is that the petitioners had therequisite funds to prepay before submitting a prepaymentrequest. QUESTION: Well, no, no, no, no, no.MR. ECKLAND: That is --QUESTION: You -- you don't -- you don't -- no. You have to -- you say for anticipatory breach you have toshow that you're ready to --MR. ECKLAND: Ready, willing, and able, Judge.QUESTION: -- to perform when -- when theobligation to perform comes. You -- you don't have toshow that you're ready for immediate performance.MR. ECKLAND: You do have to show that you're --but for the repudiation, you do have to show that you areable to perform.QUESTION: But performance here -- what you'retalking about here in performance means the ability toprepay. And I take it your argument is we couldn't haveprepaid because we didn't have the money, and therefore wecouldn't have proved damages. Is -- is that it?MR. ECKLAND: Essentially so, Your Honor. Wedon't rely on --QUESTION: I have a contract to deliver ,Page th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC widgets years from now. The party who -- the party whois committed to buy those widgets announces I am not goingto buy those widgets, and you say there is no anticipatorybreach unless I have on hand the , widgets, which Ihave no obligation to deliver until years from now. That's -- that's how you envision the -- the law ofanticipatory breach? I'm sure that's wrong. MR. ECKLAND: Well, no. Well, footnote . Weaddress this in our reply brief, Your Honor. QUESTION: The whole purpose of anticipatorybreach -- most people use it not to get damages but torelieve themselves of the obligation of -- of remaining in-- in the status of being able to perform the contract. The person who would sue in the case that I gave you wouldbe suing so that he wouldn't have to go and acquire the, -- the , widgets. It's never the case thathe's ready -- or almost never the case that he's readyhere and now to perform.MR. ECKLAND: But, Your Honor, if the person whohad the obligation to accept the delivery did not have thefunds, for example, even to purchase them, then that wouldbe sort of almost a fraudulent --QUESTION: He didn't need the funds until years from now. He has no obligation to purchase until years from now. Page th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: Could we agree to this? Could we agree to this, that so far as the element of ananticipatory breach claim involves the act of theGovernment, you had that element, and at least to thatextent, you could have brought an anticipatory breachclaim when the statute was passed? Maybe you didn't haveother elements. That's what we're arguing about, but youhad the -- you had the -- the Government's fault element. Is that correct? Do you agree?MR. ECKLAND: Well, certainly, Justice Souter,the --QUESTION: But you're saying, whether I couldhave sued then or not, I certainly can sue at the point atwhich I would claim my right to redeem without thesevarious conditions, and they refused to honor it. You'resaying, even if I could have sued when the statute waspassed, I can also under contract principles sue when themoment comes that I want to exercise my right to prepay.MR. ECKLAND: Correct, Your Honor. QUESTION: Okay. MR. ECKLAND: And -- and the doctrine does notrequire you to sue until that date. It's merely an optionto sue prior to that date. QUESTION: So, you're arguing for total controlthen over timing because your client could say, we're notPage th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ready after years, we're not ready after years, we'renot ready after years. So, the statute would -- wouldnever run. In other words, you're asking for any timefrom the earliest, which is when the law is passed, until,say, years later. MR. ECKLAND: Yes, Your Honor, we are.QUESTION: So, you could --MR. ECKLAND: Because the Government negotiatedoption terms up to years. QUESTION: That was the deal. MR. ECKLAND: That was the deal.QUESTION: Yes. MR. ECKLAND: And the owners relied on that whenthey signed up, and they had, you know, a clearexpectation that at some point in time they would be ableto prepay, opt out, and convert their markets --QUESTION: May -- may I interrupt you?MR. ECKLAND: -- to market rate -- yes.QUESTION: Did they have a right to assume rightafter the -- the day after the statute was passed, didthey continue to have a right to prepay --MR. ECKLAND: The right --QUESTION: -- without any objection?MR. ECKLAND: Well, the right still existed,Your Honor, but it wasn't -- it was repudiated at the timePage th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC of the statute. QUESTION: Well, it wasn't just -- it's not likea private citizen saying, I don't intend to perform years from now. You have a law passed that takes away acertain contract right. Was there a breach when the lawwas passed? MR. ECKLAND: Well, Your Honor, petitionersmaintain that the right was not eliminated. It was, ifyou will, conditioned --QUESTION: Do you maintain there was no breachat the time the law was passed? MR. ECKLAND: That's correct, Your Honor. That's merely repudiation. The breach did not occurunless and until the prepayment request was submitted anddenied. QUESTION: But you would concede that thestatute changed your rights.MR. ECKLAND: The statute did condition them,and that conditioning, or fettering as the Governmentsays, is a repudiation, but like any other situation inthe private sector, when you repudiate a right, the breachdoesn't occur until the time for performance comes due.QUESTION: The repudiation --QUESTION: Well, that's because a private partyhas the right to change his mind.Page th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. ECKLAND: Correct. Right, the defendantcould change their mind or the petitioner here could, infact, be able to --QUESTION: Doesn't the Government have the rightto change its mind? Couldn't the Government pass anotherstatute going back to what the situation was before thisone?MR. ECKLAND: Yes, Justice Scalia.QUESTION: In fact, it did that at one point,didn't it?MR. ECKLAND: They could and they did. QUESTION: They did at one point, didn't they?MR. ECKLAND: In they initially conditionedthe right, and in they repealed it, retracted it. Now, under the Government's proposed rule, if -- if thestatute of limitations began to run immediately upon theenactment of the statute, all of the petitioners herewould have been compelled to file their suit within years of , i.e., by . QUESTION: So, we're arguing about whether astatute itself, without any action from the agency, can bea repudiation.MR. ECKLAND: We believe it can be arepudiation, yes, Mr. Chief Justice. But the breach doesnot ripen, if you will, unless and until the prepaymentPage th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC request is denied. QUESTION: Does the repudiation give you theright to the same damages that you would receive for atotal breach of the contract?MR. ECKLAND: In our case, no. The petitionersmaintain that since the housing is within a restrictedprogram, it really has no market value unless and until apetitioner actually attempts to prepay. But evenassuming, Your Honor, that there was some type of damagecaused by the enactment of the statute, still thelimitations period would not commence to run until thetime for performance came and was not rendered. QUESTION: I think it's usually the case, is itnot, that when there's an anticipatory repudiation, it's-- it's very difficult for the -- the other party todetermine what his damages are going to be.MR. ECKLAND: Very difficult. QUESTION: Which is why he uses the doctrine toget out of the contract rather than to seek damages. Inthe widget case I gave you, who knows? Who knows what years from now the price of widgets will be? So -- so youuse it to get out of the contract.MR. ECKLAND: Petitioners here, being in theCourt of Federal Claims, have as their only remedy themonetary judgment. And -- and they are seeking damagesPage th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC starting only as of the date that their prepayment requestwas denied by the agency. So --QUESTION: So are you -- you're saying thatthere was a claim, or you're saying that -- that yourclaim really doesn't accrue until you -- until you havethe -- the wherewithal to prepay. So, you don't reallyhave a ripe claim until then? MR. ECKLAND: We're saying the petitioners wouldat least have to have the money to prepay. They wouldhave to have the ability to perform. You couldn't have asituation, for example, where someone was unable toprepay, they experienced repudiation and a breach, a laterbreach, and then say, well, we would have performed if youhadn't repudiated. QUESTION: Well --MR. ECKLAND: They have to have the honestintent to perform and have the ability to perform.QUESTION: I have a problem with that. MR. ECKLAND: Yes. QUESTION: But let's get -- if we can get -- forthe same reason Justice Scalia mentioned. But let'sassume you had cash in the bank that would allow you toprepay, and then there's a repudiation.MR. ECKLAND: Sure. QUESTION: At that point, can't you show yourPage th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC damages? You don't want to prepay, but can't you say --have an expert in and say, this property has a certainvalue and part of the value is the right at any time toprepay the -- the loan and use it for another use? Andthis can be valued in the real estate market. It's worthmore if I can prepay than if -- if I can't, and you havesome expert come in and tell you the difference in thevalues. And you do that at the moment the repudiationoccurs. MR. ECKLAND: But here, Justice Kennedy, a -year option exists. Petitioners don't know, frankly --they didn't know in and many didn't know in whatthe value of their properties would be, given interestrate structures and other market conditions at any givenpoint in time --QUESTION: Well, you mean -year options arenot subject to valuation? Experts do this all the time.MR. ECKLAND: Well, but even so, even if youcould come up with a damage theory to cover this, stillit's clear that under the law, the breach would not bedeemed to accrue for limitations purposes until the timefor performance has arrived and performance failed.I mean, if you take a hypo of the GSA leasingsome space in a building --QUESTION: You're -- you're just getting mePage th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC confused again. I thought we established that you thoughta suit could have been filed for anticipatory breach ofsome kind after the statute was enacted. MR. ECKLAND: If they're able to perform, yes,Your Honor. QUESTION: And now you're saying no. It's justvery confusing. I don't know what in the world you'rearguing. MR. ECKLAND: Justice O'Connor, no. If thepetitioners had the ability to pay, they could havebrought an anticipatory breach claim --QUESTION: Only if they had the ability to pay,you say.MR. ECKLAND: According to Corbin and the caselaw that we cite at footnote of our brief, yes. But ifwe get beyond that, okay --QUESTION: Footnote just says that ordinarycontract law applies to this kind of case. We still --but we still -- we still have to figure out what ordinarycontract law is. Footnote doesn't shed any light onthat that I saw. MR. ECKLAND: But in this case --QUESTION: And -- and I might add that on page of the blue brief, you say that the law constituted ananticipatory repudiation and petitioners had the option ofPage th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC suing immediately.MR. ECKLAND: In general, yes, that's true, YourHonor. But here the petitioners sued within years ofthe actual breach.QUESTION: And in fact, you did not sue untilafter the passage of years. MR. ECKLAND: From the statute, yes, Your Honor.QUESTION: From the enactment of the statute.MR. ECKLAND: But -- but all petitionerscommenced suit within years of the date of the actualbreach, which is the date that the prepayment requestswere denied.QUESTION: So, what apparently the Government'sarguing -- does it matter if we call this anticipatoryrepudiation or anticipatory breach? I guesstechnically --MR. ECKLAND: Technically --QUESTION: -- we should say anticipatoryrepudiation?MR. ECKLAND: Yes, Your Honor. QUESTION: Fine. And so, what they say, inpart, which I'd like to hear your response, is if you'reright that where there is anticipatory repudiation of acontract, the other side, if it's a private contract, hasa choice. They can either sue immediately if conditionsPage th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC X, Y, and Z are fulfilled, or they wait until the contractis actually breached. But we are the Government and wehave to interpret this statute strictly, and therefore weinterpret it to mean that even if where you're dealingwith a private person, you'd have your choice; herethere's no choice. Now, your response is what? MR. ECKLAND: Well, here, Your Honor, although,yes, we need to construe the statute strictly, we cannotdo so in such a manner, however, to narrow the waiver ofsovereign immunity that has already occurred under theTucker Act. As this Court held in Irwin and in Bowenagainst New York, the tolling -- equitable tollingprinciples at issue in those cases, which applied to theprivate sector, were nonetheless deemed to apply to theGovernment, despite the strict construction of the statuteof limitations involved in those cases. Here there is --although there's a conditioning of the right at the pointof the repudiation, no breach occurs until the performancecomes due and is not rendered. If -- again, if you look at the statute, underELIHPA, page of our appendix a, all of its directivesare towards the Secretary. For example, the Secretaryshall make reasonable efforts to enter into an agreementwith the borrower to extend the term of the -- of thePage th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC contract. It's the Secretary that needs to make thosereasonable efforts. There's no directive directly to theowner that the owner participate in that process.QUESTION: If -- if that's the -- I mean, Ireally do think that your takings claim, which is thereason you're going into this thing -- well, it was just aconditioning of the right; it wasn't an elimination of theright; it just reduced it -- you do all of that to -- tosupport your takings claim. But -- but it just -- itconfuses your -- your primary claim, which is the contractclaim. I don't see why there -- if it's only aconditional reduction and if it's only a direction to theagency, I don't see why there was an anticipatory breachthen. It seems to me that what you need for a taking, youneed for an anticipatory breach. I don't see how you cansay it was enough for an anticipatory breach, but itwasn't enough for a taking.MR. ECKLAND: You are correct, Your Honor. Itdoes not have to be repudiation. We maintain that that'sthe most that it can be. If it's not a repudiation, thebreach here then occurs on the adverse agency action, andall petitioners maintain --QUESTION: And that's why you were confusingJustice O'Connor, because you're not really ready to saythere was an anticipatory breach, because in order toPage th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC sustain your takings claim, you don't really want to saythere was an anticipatory breach because they didn'treally, absolutely break the contract. They just gave adirection to the agency and it didn't entirely eliminatethe right, it just conditioned it.MR. ECKLAND: Justice Scalia --QUESTION: You're carrying water on bothshoulders, it seems to me, and you're spilling a lot.MR. ECKLAND: Well, Your -- Your Honor, no. Atthe point of the denial of the prepayment request, thereis a definite breach and that's where the damages occur. But the takings --QUESTION: And you say in every breach there'salso a taking?MR. ECKLAND: Oh, no, Your Honor. QUESTION: I don't understand that. Why weren'tyou satisfied with a breach of contract claim?MR. ECKLAND: Well --QUESTION: What -- what are you adding with thisso-called takings claim? MR. ECKLAND: Well, in the event that the lowercourts do not rule in the petitioners' favor on thecontract claim, they have their wholly independent takingsclaim, which is based not -- it's not predicated on theexistence of a contract. It's simply the unilateralPage th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ^Fextension by the Government of restrictions on the useof the petitioners' property. They -- they --QUESTION: The property being buildings?MR. ECKLAND: The buildings and their land. Before they entered into the program voluntarily, they hadthe full use of their buildings and land. And theyvoluntarily --QUESTION: Suppose you win on the first claim.Suppose you win on the contract claim. Then do you wantus to go and answer the other question which, as far as Ican see, is going to take me into outer space? (Laughter.) QUESTION: But -- and I'd worry about what I'dwrite on that. What's your view on that? MR. ECKLAND: Well, there are differencesbetween the claims, Your Honor. There are potentialdifferences --QUESTION: I know there are differences. Iasked you a specific question. If you win on the contractclaim, do you want us, nonetheless, to go on and answerthe second question? It's either yes or no.MR. ECKLAND: Petitioners do, Your Honor, yes,because damages are different. In fact, the dates couldbe different. The taking could take place, for example,at the end of the for sale procedure that's involved in --Page th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC in the prepayment process, which would be months, atleast, after the denial of the prepayment request.QUESTION: May I --QUESTION: You've gotten the full benefit ofyour contract, which is what would happen if you win onyour contract's claim. What possible taking could therehave been?MR. ECKLAND: If -- in practical terms, JusticeScalia, if we do prevail on the contract claim at trial, Idon't see that we would pursue the takings.QUESTION: That's fine, except what you'reasking us to do then is to write a little essay on amatter that affects millions of other people in a veryserious way, in a case which doesn't seem completely topresent the issue. If that's what you want us to do, andI guess you have a right to do it.MR. ECKLAND: On behalf of the petitioners, Imean, we would not abandon --QUESTION: Well, we have a right to dismiss ittoo, I suppose. (Laughter.) MR. ECKLAND: Yes, you do. QUESTION: May I ask, because I have to confess,I get -- am getting a little confused, too? Just tell meprecisely -- forget the contract claim for a minute. AllPage th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC we've got before us is the takings claim. What is it thatwas taken and when?MR. ECKLAND: Prior to the time that the ownersentered into this program, they owned their land. Manyowned the buildings. QUESTION: I understand, and then they --MR. ECKLAND: Then they voluntarily agreed tothese restrictions on the use, only a certain level ofrent, only a certain income of tenants. Therepresentations by the Government, even though they maynot have arisen to a contract, nonetheless stated that --or gave the owners the expectation that at some point intime they could prepay and opt out of the program. QUESTION: Well, would you tell me what youthink was taken? Is it the right to prepay that wastaken?MR. ECKLAND: If there is no contract right,then no, that was not taken, Your Honor. QUESTION: What -- what --MR. ECKLAND: What was taken is their -- is --is the permitted use of the property under theirreasonable investment-backed expectation. It's clearly --it's -- it's a regulatory taking where the propertiesexperience a diminution in value because they can nolonger be used once the owner decides to -- to leave thePage th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC program in the manner in which they had been used prior totheir voluntary entry into the program. QUESTION: It's a regulatory taking of the rightto make use of the property the way you wanted. Whichoccurred when? MR. ECKLAND: Which occurred prior to the timethat they voluntarily agreed to participate in theprogram. QUESTION: You mean before -- even before theysigned the contract? MR. ECKLAND: Well, at or about the same time. I mean, if it's a contract, yes, but we -- you know, itwas pled in the alternative. So far, the courts have heldthere are no contracts. So, what we have is just awritten representation --QUESTION: I've been trying to ask the questionthat's --MR. ECKLAND: Yes. QUESTION: Assume you never made a contractclaim. What -- I'm trying to find out what your takingclaim would be, and I frankly don't understand. MR. ECKLAND: It's just their inability to goback to using their property the way they were because ofthe passage of ELIHPA and the regulations that compelledthem to continue charging only a certain level of rent. Page th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC They could not raise their rent.QUESTION: Now, can we go back a little? Didyour clients borrow some money from the Federal Governmentat low interest rates?MR. ECKLAND: Yes. Well --QUESTION: Yes. MR. ECKLAND: The construction loan, Your Honor,in many cases was initially from a private mortgagelender. Then that would be taken out upon the entry intothe contract by the Farmers Home Administration. And thatwas a low interest rate loan effectively --QUESTION: To develop the property.MR. ECKLAND: Yes, Your Honor. Yes. And thatwas a low interest loan, but it devolved to the benefit ofthe tenants in the form of low rents. It didn't go intothe pockets of the owners. They were able to chargelow --QUESTION: Well, to get the loan, the borrower,your clients, had to execute a loan agreement and apromissory note --MR. ECKLAND: Yes, Your Honor. QUESTION: -- and enter into a mortgage.MR. ECKLAND: Yes. QUESTION: And was the right of prepaymentspelled out in any of those agreements? Page th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. ECKLAND: The prepayment right itself was inthe promissory note, yes, Your Honor. Mr. Chief Justice, I see that most of my time isspent. If I may reserve the rest for rebuttal.QUESTION: Very well, Mr. Eckland.Mr. Roberts, we'll hear from you. ORAL ARGUMENT OF MATTHEW D. ROBERTSON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTMR. ROBERTS: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court:Petitioners' claims are barred because theyweren't filed within years of when they first accrued,on the enactment of ELIHPA. Petitioners allege that theircontracts gave them the option to prepay their mortgagesat any time subject to only those legal restrictions inplace when the contracts were made. They're, thus,alleging that the Government promised not to imposeadditional legal restrictions on their option to prepayand ELIHPA itself breached any such promise because ELIHPAitself imposed additional legal restrictions onprepayment. Petitioners' contracts claims accrued at thetime of that present breach.QUESTION: Well, was -- do you -- do you concedeor should we take this case on the assumption that therewas a contract? Do -- do we --Page th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. ROBERTS: We're -- for --QUESTION: -- do we assume it for purposes ofdeciding this case? MR. ROBERTS: For the purposes of deciding thestatute of limitations question, yes.QUESTION: And that the contract included aright of prepayment.MR. ROBERTS: Included a right of prepayment andnot only a right of prepayment, because if the contractjust said you can prepay at any time, it like allcontracts would be presumed to be subject to subsequentlegislation. So, the -- that right to prepayment had toalso include a promise that the Government wouldn't changethe rules and impose additional legal restrictions on --QUESTION: When I have my contract to pay amillion dollars when my ship -- when the ships with graincome in, I say, a year in advance, ha-ha, I'll never pay. I'll never pay. And therefore, I then have breached thecontract to carry out what I promised.MR. ROBERTS: No. In that circumstance, itwould be anticipatory repudiation. But -- but here youhave legislation, not a statement by a private party.QUESTION: So -- so what? MR. ROBERTS: Well, two things. One,legislation itself alters the legal rights, and two --Page th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: Well, the Government -- theGovernment cannot -- cannot break a contract then.MR. ROBERTS: No. The Government --QUESTION: The Government can always act bylegislation, can't it?MR. ROBERTS: Yes. Yes, Your Honor, and theGovernment --QUESTION: So, the Government --MR. ROBERTS: -- can breach the contract and --and be responsible for damages. And we're not arguingthat -- that they can't. QUESTION: So long as it does it by legislation,it's okay.MR. ROBERTS: No. No, no, Your Honor. TheGovernment --QUESTION: I thought that was your point, thatthis -- this breach is different because it was done bylegislation. MR. ROBERTS: That doesn't mean -- that -- thatdoesn't mean that it's not a breach, but what it means isthat the breach is occurring at the time the legislationis passed.QUESTION: So, fine. The legislation says, ha-ha, we won't pay. You know, I just want the legislationto say precisely what the private person said. Now, youPage th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC say we reach a different result because it's in the formof legislation? MR. ROBERTS: Yes. QUESTION: Okay. Now, one thing -- I'm justcurious to get into that a little bit -- is, I don'tunderstand why the Government is taking the position itdoes, as well as what the position is. That is to say,wouldn't you, if you win -- and this will help meunderstand it -- have millions of people who have enteredinto contracts with the Government poring over every lawthat is passed, and probably every regulation, to decidewhether or not that law and that regulation will somehow or years from now impact on a real estate contractthey have with the Government? A whole industry ofanticipatory breach, not really, lawyers will develop in order to bring those claims immediately in the Court ofClaims because we might lose them later even thougheverything would have been worked out. Now, if you can explain that to me, I suspectI'll have a better time understanding your argument. MR. ROBERTS: Okay. What -- what we're -- whatwe're asking for is that people who believe that theircontractual rights have been injured -- have beeninfringed by a statute give the Government reasonablyprompt notice, in accordance with the statute ofPage th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC limitations, of their claims. And the benefit of theability to have a prompt accounting outweighs, in theGovernment's view, any additional lawsuits that mayresult. And we don't think that there will be asignificant number of additional lawsuits because, as theCourt was explaining before, there's an ability to sueimmediately on the anticipatory repudiation theory. So,it isn't that the petitioners -- or that the Government isnot going to be subject to suit or --QUESTION: But what would the damages be when Ihaven't got the wherewithal to pay? MR. ROBERTS: The -- the damages are thatpetitioners had a loan that they allege gave them anunfettered option to prepay at any time. And after ELIHPAwas passed, that loan no longer had that unfettered optionto prepay. And a loan that has an -- has an absoluteprepayment option is worth more than a loan with aseverely restricted prepayment option. The difference inthe value of the loan is reflected in the difference ofthe value of the property that's encumbered by the loan,and it's -- it's easy to measure by comparing the --QUESTION: Easy to measure? You -- you'd betyour life on that? I mean, the -- the reason -- thereason contract law has developed the option of suing forPage th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC anticipatory breach as just an option is precisely becauseit is often so difficult to anticipate what your damageswill be. And so, it leaves it up to the innocent partywho hasn't broken the contract to either sue immediately,if he can calculate his damages and get them, or to waituntil the -- the time for performance comes. And what the Government is doing with thistheory is forcing everybody who has a contract with theGovernment to come in with -- with speculative damages andhoping that some court will find a difference between thevalue of this contract now and what it would be yearsfrom now. I -- I think it's a -- I don't know why youwould want to impose this kind of a regime uponcontractors with the Government. MR. ROBERTS: The damages, first of all, can bemeasured, as I said. Second of all, the -- theGovernment, as reflected in the statute of limitations,has a -- has a prompt -- has an interest in promptresolution of the claims. QUESTION: Well, I'm not --QUESTION: I mean, anything can be measured. Imean, you know, my life expectancy can be measured, but Iwouldn't bet a whole lot of money on it. MR. ROBERTS: That -- that's right --QUESTION: You know, you -- you can come up withPage th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC a guess for -- for anything. But -- but the reason wegive the option to the innocent party is precisely becauseit's a guess. It may be, you know, an educated guess, butit's a guess. MR. ROBERTS: With -- with due respect, YourHonor, I -- I don't think that's the reason why the lawgives the -- the option to the innocent party. The lawgives the option to the innocent party so that the -- theparty has the ability -- the opportunity to convince thedefendant to retract its wrongful repudiation.QUESTION: But if -- if it is an option, whyshould the innocent party be penalized by having thestatute of limitations start to run then?MR. ROBERTS: It's not an option here becausethe statute is a present breach. And -- and to understandthat --QUESTION: Well, are you --MR. ROBERTS: -- it's important to understandthe nature of the promise that's -- that's at issue here,I think, and if -- if I could try to go back to -- to dothat.QUESTION: Yes. I was going to ask -- I -- Ithink it's consistent with the Chief Justice's inquiry. Are you saying that there's only one cause of action here,or do you concede that there are two causes of action, onePage th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC for repudiation or anticipatory breach and the other forthe actual breach?MR. ROBERTS: Our position is that there is anactual breach at the time that the statute is passed, andit's a breach of -- of the promise that the Governmentmade that it wouldn't impose additional legal restrictionson prepayment.QUESTION: Even though --MR. ROBERTS: It's different from --QUESTION: Even though performance is not yetdue.MR. ROBERTS: Performance on that promise isdue, Your Honor. Performance on that promise is -- is duethroughout the life of the loan.QUESTION: No. But you can make that argumentwith respect to any contract that is ever made. You'resaying there is always an implicit term that they won'tmonkey around with the terms of the contract, and wheneverin anticipation they do so, there's an immediate breach. And if you follow that analysis, then in fact thedistinction between repudiation and anticipatory breach onthe one hand and actual breach on the other will disappearin every contract, public or private. MR. ROBERTS: No, Your Honor, because -- becausethe -- the difference is between legislation and the --Page th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC and the role that legislation has under backgroundprinciples of contract law and other actions. QUESTION: The background principle of contractlaw is that we try to treat the Government and a private contracting party together. MR. ROBERTS: Yes. QUESTION: And you're saying the fact that theGovernment can speak through legislation, whereas aprivate party cannot, alters that rule. If so, then thatrule is going to have a remarkably short life because theGovernment can do anything it wants to across the streetand displace the rule.MR. ROBERTS: The -- the distinction, YourHonor, is that -- is -- is twofold. The legislationchanges the legal rights and so there isn't an abilityanymore to perform. QUESTION: Why does it change the legal rightsif the contract exists? It may -- it may convert oneright into a -- a right to damages as opposed to a rightto performance, but the theory of contract is that byrepudiation you can't just change the legal rights.MR. ROBERTS: It does -- it does exactly that. That's what I mean by changing the legal rights, that itchanges -- there's no longer a -- a right to performance. There's only a right to the damages. If it was a contractPage th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC -- QUESTION: All right. If that is so, thenexactly the same thing is true in a private contract whenthere has been an anticipatory breach.MR. ROBERTS: No. No, Your Honor, there mightbe a right to specific performance if it was the kind ofcontract that you could specific performance, but we wouldsubmit that you couldn't get specific performance once theGovernment --QUESTION: How does the fact that you cannot --MR. ROBERTS: -- precluded the performance bylaw. You could only get damages. QUESTION: Let's assume you're right. How doesthe fact that you may not get specific performance againstthe Government affect the right to damages, which you perfectly can get against the Government, as -- as againstany other private contract?MR. ROBERTS: The -- what it does is show thatthere's -- that there's a change and an -- an injury rightat the time that the legislation is passed. QUESTION: Then that gets back to the originalpoint. If that's so, then the same argument is going toapply in every contract, public or private.MR. ROBERTS: It -- it's not going to apply in aprivate context because there isn't going to be a breachPage th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC by virtue of -- of legislation unless there's a promise bythe private party that --QUESTION: You -- you have invented --MR. ROBERTS: -- that the laws aren't going tochange. QUESTION: I understand. You have invented apromise that I won't change the laws. You can invent in-- in private contracts an implicit promise that I willnot repudiate, and therefore, when you repudiateanticipatorily, you have broken the contract and, bingo,there is a breach of contract and you must sue at once.MR. ROBERTS: You -- you have --QUESTION: You no longer have the option.MR. ROBERTS: You have --QUESTION: You could do it. I mean, it's just-- you know. MR. ROBERTS: You have no need to invent that. You have no need to -- to have that additional promise inthe private contract because -- because there isn't thepresumption. There -- there isn't the presumption in thatcircumstance that the contract is subject to legislationeven though the Government is -- has the ability tolegislate. QUESTION: I see your point. QUESTION: Well, what is -- what is yourPage th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC authority for the proposition that the -- an -- ananticipatory breach not accepted by the other party startsthe statute of limitations running? I mean, what case?MR. ROBERTS: My -- my argument is not that thisis an anticipatory breach. The -- our -- our principalsubmission is that this is a present breach, but -- butit's a present breach of a promise that the Government --QUESTION: What --MR. ROBERTS: -- that has to be there in acontract with the Government because of theGovernment's --QUESTION: What if we disagree with you thatit's a present breach? Do you still say that ananticipatory breach starts the statute running?MR. ROBERTS: That -- that's not our principalsubmission. We -- but you could read the statute -- youcould read the statute that providing first accrues tomean that the first -- that when a plaintiff can firstbring suit, that that's when the statute of limitationsstarts to run --QUESTION: Even though that's not the law asbetween private parties. MR. ROBERTS: Yes, given the principles ofsovereign immunity and the principle that the statuteshould be narrowly construed. But -- but --Page th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: But that -- that narrow constructionnotion, or construed strictly notion, applies to decidingwhether there's a waiver by the Government of anyprivilege of sovereign immunity. And once we've decidedyes, the Government did waive it, the Government has saidit can be sued, we don't continue to look at every issueand say, oh, it's the Government, we're going to strictlyconstrue it somehow. MR. ROBERTS: The Court -- the Court has heldseveral times that statutes of limitations, as conditionson the Government's waiver of its sovereign immunity,should themselves be -- be narrowly construed and hasapplied it in -- in cases, for instance, involving asituation where a private party claimed that thelimitations period didn't run until an administration --administrative determination had been made that therewouldn't be -- that there was a -- was a loss and --QUESTION: Well, in this sense -- in this sense,the Government actually needs less protection than theprivate party because the Government at least is in theposition where it can always pass a statute oflimitations --MR. ROBERTS: Yes, the Government --QUESTION: -- which -- and if you're -- you'reconcerned about your liability years out or something,Page th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC I suppose you could pass a statute of limitations.MR. ROBERTS: The Government can do that and hasdone it here, and the statute of limitations provides thatwhen the action first accrues, there are years to sue.And if -- if --QUESTION: Well, but again, I'm back to theproblem. It -- it seems to me that on contract law thereare two causes of action, anticipatory repudiation,anticipatory breach, and breach. And you're conflatingthe two.MR. ROBERTS: In the -- in the ordinarysituation, if a private party -- let's -- if -- if I may,let's -- can I pose a hypothetical? If -- if a -- if aprivate party had promised that you could prepay, that theother party could prepay at any time, and Congress passeda statute that imposed restrictions on prepayment, thatstatute would be neither an anticipatory repudiation or abreach, but would provide a discharge. And -- but if the private party had promised,subsidiary to the promise that it would be prepaid at anytime, that there -- that notwithstanding passage oflegislation, that if -- if there was legislation passedthat -- that -- excuse me -- that the private party hadpromised that legislation wouldn't be passed or hadpromised to indemnify, notwithstanding the passage ofPage th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC legislation, then there would be a breach at the time thelegislation is passed. And the Government has to make that promise, andpetitioners have alleged that the Government made thatpromise here. That's what -- that's what they lost on thesummary judgment motion in the -- in the lower court abouton the merits --QUESTION: I see that. I think I understandyour argument. It doesn't work with the private party. Your analogy isn't so great because it's not the privateparty who can pass the law. But I think your argument is that unlike privatecontracts, many, many, many Government contracts have thefollowing problem in them which was in Mobil. Are theparties here saying that if Congress passes a law, thatthat -- all bets are off? Are they saying the Governmentpromises to do this, Congress's law to the contrary in thefuture notwithstanding? What's the promise? And here you're saying the promise was in theirview we will do this irrespective of Congress's new lawand their -- your view is, no, it was conditioned onCongress not passing a law. Is that right? Or maybe Ihave it backwards. But you're -- you're saying that inGovernment contracts, there is a promise and there is anissue whether the Government means that promisePage th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC irrespective of what Congress does in the future.MR. ROBERTS: Yes. That --QUESTION: That's an issue.MR. ROBERTS: That's an issue, and then there'sa separate --QUESTION: And therefore, they're saying whatthe Government meant was irrespective of what Congressdoes, and you're saying no, it meant only if Congressdoesn't do to the contrary. MR. ROBERTS: On -- on the merits -- on themerits, yes. But -- but --QUESTION: On the merits. And you're sayingthat kind of a contract issue is breached when Congresspasses the law to the contrary. MR. ROBERTS: Yes.QUESTION: Okay. And that's special forGovernment. And now all I would like on that is: A, doesthat apply to administrative regulations too; and B,what's the authority for that? MR. ROBERTS: Okay. It would apply toadministrative regulations if -- if that was the -- theissue whether the promise -- if -- if the issue was therewouldn't be regulations -- different regulations thatimposed restrictions on prepayment. It would apply toPage th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC that and it would be breached at the time the regulationswere promulgated. They have the effect of law.The authority for that is the -- is thebackground principle that's -- that's recognized in theWinstar case, that's recognized in Bowen v. Posse, that'srecognized in --QUESTION: All right. But if it's just abackground principle, I would worry about the practicalconsequence being of people, particularly in real estatecontracts, having to study every regulation, every statutein order to tell their clients what to do. Real estateinvestors are nervous people sometimes. And -- and theywould say, my God, I better bring a lawsuit and the lawyerwould say, don't worry about it. This condition is nevergoing to arise anyway. Who cares? And if it does, suethen. Now, that -- that's the practical thing I brought upat the beginning, and if we're trying to say what's theright legal principle, I think that practical problem isrelevant.MR. ROBERTS: Okay. And then to return to the-- to practical considerations that -- that we think arguein our favor on that side, that's because the Governmenthas a prompt interest in -- has a -- has a strong interestin a prompt accounting of the costs of legislative action. Page th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC And it's particularly important that -- it's -- it'simportant that, one, that -- that a Congress close to theCongress that enacts a statute be able to address theconsequences of the enactment. And it's also importantthat Congress --QUESTION: Which it could enact by repealing --MR. ROBERTS: -- be able to cause a --QUESTION: It could enact -- the -- the Congressthat's close to the first one could say, okay, we'llrepeal it. And that's, Mr. Roberts, one of the majorproblems I have with your argument. You seem to say thatlegislation is magic, and you can't have an anticipatoryrepudiation because when Congress has spoken, that's it. But in this very case, Congress goes back and forth acouple of times. MR. ROBERTS: Yes. Congress can repeal thelegislation, but it doesn't change the fact that duringthe -- the period the legislation was in effect thatthere's an alteration of legal rights, and there's also,if there was a promise that -- that the -- that the rightswouldn't be changed, a breach during that time. And although Congress did -- although Congressdid repeal the statute here, it -- it's far less likely inthe ordinary situation that Congress is going to repealstatutes than it is that a private party is going toPage th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC change its mind about its intention to repudiate a -- acontract, and --QUESTION: Well, Mr. -- Mr. Roberts, in the casein which the Government, we'll assume, doesn't change itsmind, your argument in -- in response to Justice Breyer'squestion seems to boil down to something like this. Pitythe poor Government as the contract breaker because it maynot know just how much damage it's causing. Therefore,put a burden on the people harmed by the Government'sbreach of contract to run in in a hurry and let theGovernment know early on just how much damage it hascaused. Why should the burden of the Government's breachof contract be shifted entirely for limitations purposesto the victims of the breach? MR. ROBERTS: When -- when there's a present --when there's a breach, the general principle is thestatute of limitations starts to run at the time of thebreach. It doesn't wait to run until --QUESTION: No, but your -- no, but yourargument, as I understand it, is that because of theGovernment's peculiar power to pass legislation, theGovernment should not be in the position of the usualcontract breaker who may be subject to an anticipatorybreach claim or an actual breach claim later. You'rePage th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC saying the Government should be subject only to one claimat the first moment that an anticipatory breach claimshould be brought. And your argument for saying that isthe Government ought to have a right to make its victimscome in and tell it as early as possible how much damageit has caused. Why does the Government, simply because ithas a legislative power, have that kind of a moral claimthat the private contract breaker does not have?MR. ROBERTS: There's this -- there's a -- avery strong interest in permitting the Government to -- inpermitting Congress to decide it wants to wrap up thecosts of improvident Federal contracts that they have --QUESTION: Then why don't we let Congress -- whydon't we let Congress survey through the departments ofthe Government how many contracts it has entered into orguaranteed and tote up the damages in advance? TheGovernment has access to this information if it wants toget it.MR. ROBERTS: The -- the Government doesn't knowwho's going to sue, for one. And so -- so it -- what thisrule does is --QUESTION: In other words, the Government mayget off a little cheaper if it puts the burden on thevictims. MR. ROBERTS: Well -- well, it -- there's aPage th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC dispute here as to whether the contract made this promiseor not, and the Government doesn't -- doesn't know howthat dispute is going to be resolved. We don't believethat -- that there was a promise that prepayment would notbe subject to subsequent legislation. QUESTION: Well, certainly general contract lawis not -- you know, you could say it from the point ofview of general contract law, it's important that peoplewho breach contracts know as soon as possible how muchdamage they've done, but obviously that doctrine has notcommended itself in the area of general contract law.MR. ROBERTS: Well, when they breach a contractand it's a breach, the statute of limits does start to runand the rule is that even if the damages can't be fullyascertained, that -- that the statute of limitations run. And that's true with -- if -- if there was a contractbetween one party to -- to employ another party for theother party's life and that contract was breached, thestatute of limitations would run at the date of breacheven though it wouldn't be possible with certainty to knowthe length of the damages. A -- a contract for a breachof warranty of merchantability --QUESTION: I think it's so hard to look at thisas an actual breach if we take it on the assumption therewas a contractual right of prepayment on demand by thePage th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC borrower. I would think normally you would wait and seeif and when there was a request for repayment -- or earlypayment, and you wouldn't really know that, of course,with a -- the owner of real estate who goes out and hegets a low interest loan from the Government to developit. Now, if interest rates decline below that low rate inthe future within the -year period, then he might wellwant to go have early payment so he can get an even betterdeal. But if interest rates are going higher, there's noincentive for him to. I wouldn't think you'd treat it asan immediate breach because the Congress attached newconditions to the circumstances of the prepayment.MR. ROBERTS: Even under the scenario you posedthat -- that there wasn't an incentive to prepay right atthe moment, there's still a -- a change in what -- in --in the loan that petitioners have, and it's a loan wherethey no longer have that option to prepay with unfettered--QUESTION: No. As I read the legislation, therestill is consideration of the possibility of prepayment,but there are some new conditions imposed whereby theGovernment tries to assure itself that there will still bea certain number of low-income housing units out there onthe market.MR. ROBERTS: Yes, Your Honor, but petitionersPage th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC here aren't complaining about the fact that they'reultimately not able to prepay. They're really complainingabout the -- about the restriction in the circumstancesunder which they prepaid, and -- and that's revealed bytheir complaint where not all -- even -- petitioners have-- have submitted requests for prepayment. And some ofthem have accepted incentives with -- and withdrawn theirrequests. So, if they were complaining about not beingable to prepay, they would have gone through the wholeELIHPA process to see whether they -- they could prepay.QUESTION: Well, apparently at some point therewas a request to prepay. Right?MR. ROBERTS: Some petitioners have maderequests to prepay. Not all petitioners have maderequests to prepay.QUESTION: The -- but -- but petitioners -- someof the petitioners in this case. MR. ROBERTS: Some have but not all petitioners.QUESTION: Have made a request to prepay andit's been refused. Now, at that point, presumably, we cansee a breach.MR. ROBERTS: At that point, there's anexacerbation in our view of the -- of the previous breachbecause it's an application of the restrictions that wereimposed and that were imposed, according to petitioners'Page th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC allegations, in violation of the Government's promise notto impose them. But --QUESTION: Could you seek declaratory relief todetermine your liability?MR. ROBERTS: At the time of the --QUESTION: The legislation is passed. You'reconcerned that it might cause some monetary liability someyears hence. You seek declaratory relief that this is nota breach of the contract.MR. ROBERTS: I suppose that the Governmentcould -- could do that. I'm not -- I -- you know, I don'tknow for sure, but I don't know any reason why -- why --QUESTION: Let's see if this is a quick analogy,and you may not know the answer. I promise you in acontract to give you an option to lease my beach houseevery year for the next years, and I also promise notto make a contract disabling myself from carrying thatout. I enter into a contract with him that does disablemyself from carrying that out. Is that an immediatebreach or is it anticipatory?MR. ROBERTS: An immediate breach, Your Honor. QUESTION: It is immediate?MR. ROBERTS: It's an immediate breach. Do Ihave something that -- that says --QUESTION: Yes. I mean, that's prettyPage th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC analogous.MR. ROBERTS: No.QUESTION: That's pretty analogous to thecase --MR. ROBERTS: Yes. I don't --QUESTION: -- that you were bringing up.MR. ROBERTS: I don't think that -- that thecase -- I don't have a case one way or the other on thatproposition. QUESTION: I think you'll find it's ananticipatory breach.MR. ROBERTS: But -- but ordinarily --QUESTION: If that is an anticipatory breach --MR. ROBERTS: If you didn't make any -- anyother promise at all, it would be an anticipatory breach. I agree with you. But you wouldn't have need to make thatother promise because the -- because it would be presumedthat you wouldn't take action that would -- you wouldn'tbe excused by taking action that makes it impossible foryou to perform. But -- but that presumption doesn't applyin the case of the Government and legislation because ofthe --QUESTION: And your whole case hinges on that,that the Government --MR. ROBERTS: Well --Page th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: -- is really different because ofthis. Now, if I believed that the Government -- and I'mnot -- I'm not saying I do -- that the Government wasreally different for that reason, then this is a uniquekind of case and maybe we should have a different rule asto when you have to sue. I mean, if it's unique for thatpurpose, maybe it ought to be unique as to whether thesepeople who don't know what their damages are at this pointhave to sue right away or it can wait until -- until they-- they submit their request for prepayment. If it's unique, we'll adopt a unique rule forit. Would that make you happy? MR. ROBERTS: All -- all I can say to that, YourHonor, is that -- that there are many situations in whichdamages cannot be ascertained fully. In fact, there aresituations in which courts have confronted situationswhere the damages can't -- no measurable damages could befound at all at the time of breach, and they hold that it-- it runs from the breach. And the -- the policy arguments on our side arethe -- the Government's interest in a prompt accounting,in being able to wrap things up and in not having --QUESTION: Well, but the Government has --MR. ROBERTS: -- to wait for years to know --QUESTION: But the Government should want toPage th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC have some rules out there that would encourage it to beable to deal with people on a commercial basis in someareas. You might want to be able to buy certain thingsfrom the private sector or to engage in loan agreements. And to adopt the kind of proposal you're makingdiscourages anyone from dealing with the Government. It'sa very peculiar rule. MR. ROBERTS: I -- I don't think it discouragesthem, Your Honor, because they -- they can sue and theirdamages are measurable, and they can get the damages. Thelikelihood that interest rates are going to go up or thatinterest rates are going to go down and -- and otherpossibilities are -- are reflected in the -- in the changein the value of the loans and they're measurable at thattime. And -- and if petitioners think they might beable to prepay later, subject to the restrictions, so theywouldn't be injured in that way, they can sue, get theirdamages and then they'll be subject to the restrictions inthe program. And if they prepay and -- and the restrictionsdon't prevent them in any way from prepaying or don'timpose any limitations on them, then they've gotten thedamages for what they've lost and they also get theability to prepay. Page th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. Roberts. Mr. Eckland, you have minutes remaining. REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF JEFF H. ECKLANDON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERSMR. ECKLAND: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice. Mayit please the Court:The Government has not been able to cite to onecase in which a congressional statute has been treateddifferently, in other words, that it constitutes animmediate breach of a contract. In the petitioners' briefs, we have a total ofsix cases that make the distinction between acongressional statute as being merely a repudiation andthe breach not occurring until there has been some adverseagency action. In the Court of Federal Claims, we've gotPlaintiffs in Winstar-Related cases, Bank of America, andConoco. The Federal Circuit Court of Appeals, Far West,Schism, and Stone Forrest. And two of those cases,Plaintiffs in Winstar-Related cases and Bank of America,dealt with the statute of limitations and have ruled infavor of the petitioners' position advocated here.Congress makes policy. It directs agencies whatto do, and petitioners maintain that in that sense it isno real different than a board of directors of acorporation. A board of directors can direct the CEO or aPage th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC program manager not to perform a contract, but thatdirective or that change in bylaw by a board of directorsdoes not constitute a breach. It's merely a repudiatoryact. The -- the breach does not ripen unless and untilthe program manager or CEO actually fails to perform atthe time that performance comes due. Here it's clear that since the petitioners canreach their central right of opting out of this programupon prepayment -- and the statistics show that -- itcan't be that the statute is an immediate breach. Abreach occurs only if and when the agency acts and deniesa prepayment request.In closing, Your Honors, petitioners hereunderstand that as U.S. citizens they have an obligationto follow the law and to know the law. But here theGovernment enticed the petitioners into this program byholding out a -year option term, only to withdraw itupon the time that the petitioners built the properties.If the Government is not willing to give thepetitioners the benefit of their bargain, fundamentalconsiderations of fairness at least require that they getthe benefit of the doubt and that these ordinaryprinciples of law regarding the accrual of breach ofcontract and takings claims should be able to be invokedby the petitioners such that they do not need to file suitPage th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC unless and until their claims accrue. CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: Thank you, Mr.Eckland.The case is submitted. (Whereupon, at : p.m., the case in theabove-entitled matter was submitted.)Page th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Page A abandon : ability : :, :, :, :, : : : : able : :, : : : : : :, :, : :,, : : above-entitled : : abridge : absolute : absolutely : accept : : accepted : : access : accounting : : : accrual : accrue : : : : accrued : : :, accrues : : : acquire : act : : : : action : : : :, : : : :, : actions : : acts : actual : :, :, :,, : : add : adding : additional :, : :, : : address : : administration : : : : administrative : :, adopt : : advance : : adverse : : advocated : affect : affirm : agencies : agency : : : :, : : : agree :,, : agreed : : agreement : : agreements : : Agriculture : AL :, allegations : allege : : alleged :, : alleging : allow : alteration : alternative : : alters : : America :, analogous :, analogy : : analysis : announces : answer :, : anticipate : anticipation : anticipatorily : anticipatory :,, :,,, : :,, :, : :, : :,,, :,,, : : : : : :, : :,, :,, : : : : :,, anymore : anyway : apparently : : Appeals : APPEARANCES : appendix : application : : applied : : applies : : : : apply : : : :, : :, : April : area : areas : argue : arguing :, : : : : argument : :, :, : : : : : : : : :, : :, : : arguments : arisen : arrived : arrives : ascertained : : asked : asking :, : : : asserting : Assistant : Associates : : assume : : : : : : assuming : : :, : assumption : : assure : attached : attempts : authority : : : authorizations : automatic : automatically : a.m : : B B : back : : : : : : : background :, :, backwards : bank : :, bargain : barred : : based : Basically : basis : : beach : began : : beginning : behalf :, :,, : : : : believe : : : : believed : benefit : : : :, bet : : bets : better : : : beyond : bingo : bit : blue : board :, : boil : borrow : borrower : : : bound : Bowen : : breach : :, : : : :, :,,, :,,,,, : :,, :, :,,, : : :, : :, :, : : :,,,, : :,, : :,,, : : : :,,,,,, :, : :,,,,, :, : : : :,,,, :, : :,,,,, : :, :,,, : :, :, :, :,, :, breached : : : : : : break : : breaker :, : Breyer's : brief : :, briefs : bring : : : bringing : broken : : brought : : : : building : buildings :,, : th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC built : burden :, : buy :, : bylaw : C C : : calculate : call : cares : carry : carrying : :, case : :,,, :,, :,, :,, : : : : : : : : : :,,, : : :, cases : :, : : : :,, cash : cause : : : : caused : : : causes : : causing : central : CEO : : certain : : : :, : : : certainly :, : certainty : change : :, : :, : :, : :, : : : changed : : changes :, changing : charge : charging : cheaper : Chief :, : :, : : : choice : :, Circuit : : : : circumstance : : circumstances : : cite : : citizen : citizens : : civil : claim :, :,,,,,, : :, :,, :,, : :,,, :,,,, :, : :,, : :, : : :,, claimed : claims : :, : : :, :, : : : : : clause : clear : : : : : : clearly : client : clients :, :, : close :, closely : closing : come :, : :, : comes : : : : : : : commands : commence : commenced : : commended : commercial : committed : comparing : compelled : : compensation :, :,,, complaining :,, complaint : completely : concede : : : concerned : : condition : : conditional : conditioned : : : : conditioning : : : conditions : : : : :, confess : conflating : confronted : confused : : : confuses : confusing : : Congress : : :, :,, : :,,,,,,,,, :,, : : congressional :, Congress's :, Conoco : consequence : consequences : consideration : considerations : : : consistent : constitute : : constituted : : constitutes : Constitution :, construction : : : construe : : construed : :, context : continue : : : continues : continuing :,, contract :,,, :,,,, Page : :,,,,,, :,,, : : :, : : : :,, :, :, : :, :,,, :, :, : :, :,, : : :,,, :, : : :,, :,, :, :,, :,,, :,, : : : : :,,, : : :,,,,,,, :,,, : :, contracting : contractors : contracts : : : :,, : : : :,, : :, : contractual : : : : contract's : contrary : :, control : convert : : convince : Corbin : corporation : correct : : : :, : : : costs : : : couple : course : court :, :,, :, : : : : : : :, : :,, courts : : : : : covenants :, cover : : created : curious : current : D D : : : : damage : : :, : : damages : : :,,, : : : : :, : :,, :, :, : :, :,,, :,, : date : :, :, : :, : dates : day : deal :, : : dealing : : dealt : decide : : decided : decides : deciding :, : th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC declaratory :, decline : deemed : : defendant :, : : definite : deliver : : delivery : demand : denial : : denied : : : : denies : denying : Department : : departments : despite : determination : determine : : develop : : : developed : devolved : dictated : difference : :, : : differences :,, different :, : : : : :,, : differently : difficult :, : difficulty : diminution : direct : directed : direction : : directive : : directives : : directly : directors :, : directs : disable : disabling : disagree : disappear : discharge : discourages :, dismiss : dismissal : displace : dispute :, distinction : : : doctrine : : : : : doing : dollars : doubt : due : : : :,, : D.C :, E E : :, earliest : early : : :, easy :, Eckland : :, :,, :,, :,,,, :,,, :,, :, :,,, :,,,, :, :,, :,,,, :, :,, :,,,, :,, :,,, :, :,,, :,,,, : : :,,,, :,, :,, :,,, :,, : :,,,, :, :,, : educated : effect : : effectively : efforts : : either : : : : element :,, elements : ELIHPA : : : :,, : : eliminate : eliminated : elimination : employ : enact :, enacted : enactment : : : : : : : enacts : : encourage : encumbered : enforceable : :, engage : enter : : : entered : : : : enticed : entirely : : entry : : envision : equitable : ESQ :, :,, essay : Essentially : established : estate : : :, : ET :, event : everybody : exacerbation : exactly : : example : : : : excuse : excused : execute : exercise : existed : Page existence : : exists : : expect : expectancy : expectation : : :, expected : experience : experienced : expert :, Experts : expire : explain : explaining : extend : extent : F fact : :, : : : : : : : follow : : following : footnote : : :,, forcing : forget : form : : Forrest : forth : found : Franconia : : frankly : : fraudulent : freedom : fulfilled : full : : fully : : fundamental : : funds : :, future : : : :, : : : failed : : fails : : fair :, :, fairness : : far : : : : : Farmers : : : fault : favor : : : Federal : : : : : : : :, fettering : Fextension : figure : file : : filed :, : : find : : : : fine : : : first : : : : :,, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC G G : general : : : :,, getting : : Ginsburg : give : : : : : given : :, : gives :, go : :, : :, : : :, God : goes : : going : : : : : : : : :,, : : : :, : : : : : gotten : : Government :, :, : : : : : :, :, : : : : : :,,,,, : :,,, : :,, : : :,, :,, : :, :,,,,,, : :,,,,, :, : :,,, :,,,,, :, : :, : :, :,,, : : :, Government's :, : : : : : : :,, : : grain : Grass : : great : GSA : guaranteed : guess : : :,,, H H : :, : : ha :, hand : : happen : happened : happy : hard : harmed : ha-ha : hear : : : held : : : : : : help : higher : hinges : hold : holding : Home : : : honest : honor : :, :, :, : :, :, :, :, Page invoked : involve :, involved : : involves : involving : irrespective : :, Irwin : issue : : : : : : :,,,, i.e : J JEFF : :, : : judge : : : : judgment : : : Justice : :, : :, : : : : :, : : : : : : :, : : : Justice's : K Kennedy : kind :, : : : : : : know : :,, : : : : :,, : : :, : :,,, : : :,, :, : knows :, L land :, : Laughter : : law :, : : : :,, : :,,, :, : :, :, : : : : :,,, : : :,, :,, laws :, lawsuit : lawsuits :, lawyer : lawyers : lease : leasing : leave : leaves : legal :,, :, : : :,, : : legislate : legislation :, :,, :, :,,, : : :,, : :, :,, :, :,, : : : : : legislative : : lender : length : : : :,, : : : : :, : :,, : :, : :, : : : : : : Honors : : hoping : house : : housing : : : : hurry : hypo : hypothetical : I immediate : : : : : :,, : : immediately : :, : : : immunity : : :, impact : : impairing : : impairment : implicit : : important : :,, : impose : : : : : : :, imposed : : : : : impossible : improvident : inability : incentive :, incentives : include : included : :, income : :, : indemnify : independent : industry : information : infringed : initially : : injured : : injury : innocent : :,,, inquiry : instance : intend : intent : intention : interest :,, : :,, : :, : :,, : : : interpret :, interrupt : invent :, invented :, investment-backed : : investors : th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC let's : :, : :, : level : : liability : :, life : : : : : light : likelihood : limitations : :,,,, : : : : : : : : : :, :,, : : :, :, : : limits : little :, : : : loan : :,,,, :,, :,, : :,, : loans : : long : longer : : : : : look : : : : lose : loss : lost :, : : lot : : low : :,,,, :, lower : : : : : low-income : M : maintained : maintaining : maintains : major : making : manager :, manner : : market : : :, : markets : matter : : : : MATTHEW : : : mean : :, : : : :, :, : :, : : :, : : means : : : meant :, measurable : :, measure :, measured :,, mentioned : merchantability : merely : : : : : merits : :,, million : millions : : mind : :, :, Minneapolis : magic : maintain : :, : :, : Minnesota : minute : minutes : Mobil : moment : : : : Monday : monetary : : money : : : : monkey : months : moral : morning : mortgage : :, mortgages : motion : : N N :, : narrow : : narrowly : : nature : necessarily : need : : :, :, : : needs : : negotiated : neither : nervous : never :, : : :, new : : :, normally : note : : notice : notion : :, notwithstanding :, : number : : O Page opting : option : : : : : : :, :,,,, : :,,,, : : : : options : oral : : : : order : : : ordinarily : ordinary :, : :, : : : original : ought : : outer : outweighs : owned :, owner :, : : owners : : :, : O'Connor : : : P P : page : : : paid : part : : : participate : : particular : particularly : : parties : : party :, : : : : :,,,, :, : : : : :,,,, :, : :, party's : pass : : : : : passage : : : : :, passed :, :, :,, : : : : : :,, : : O : : objection : obligation : : : :,,, passes : : passing : pay : :, :,, : : obtaining : obviously : occur :, : occurred : :, occurring : : occurs : : : : oh : : : okay : : : : :, :, : : once : : : : opinions : opportunity : opposed : opposing : opt : : : : payment :, peculiar : : penalized : people : : :, :, : : : : perfectly : perform : : :,, :, : :,, : : : :, performance : :,, : : :, : : :, : :, :,,,, : performed : period : : : : : permitted : th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC permitting :, person :, : : petitioner : : petitioners :,, :, :,,, :, : : :, :, : : : : :, : : :, :, : : :, : :,, :, : : : :,,,,,, : :,,, :,,,,, Pity : place : : plaintiff : Plaintiffs :, please : : : : pled : : pockets : point : : :, : : : : : : : : : :,, : pointed : policy : : poor : poring : pose : posed : position :, :, : : : : Posse : possibilities : possibility : possible : : :, potential : power : : practical : :,,, precisely : : : : : precluded : predicated : prepaid : : : prepay : :,, : :, : :,,, :,, :, :, : :, :, :, :,,,,,, : :, prepaying : prepayment :, : : : : : : :, : : : :,,, :, : : : :, :, : : :, present : : : :,, prevent : previous : price : primary : principal :, principle : : :,, : principles :, : : : : : : prior :, : : :, private :,, : :, : : : : :, :,, : :,, : :, : :,, :,, : : : privilege : probably : problem : : : : problems : procedure : process : : : program : : : : :, :,, : :,,, promise : : : :,, :,,, : : :,,, :, : : :, :, : :, promised : : :,,, promises : promissory : : prompt : : :, :, : promulgated : properties : : : : property :, :, : :, : :, : : proposal : proposed : proposition : : protection : proved : provide : provides : providing : public : : purchase :, purpose : : purposes : :, : :, : pursue : put : puts : p.m : Q question :,, :,,, :, :,, :,, :,, :, :, :,,,, :, :,,, :,,,,, :,,,, :,,, : Page :, :,,,, :, :,,, :,,,, : : :,,, :,,,, :, :,,,, :,, :,,,, :,,,,, :, :,,,, :,,,, : : :, :,, :,, :,, :,, :,,, :,,,,, :,, :,, : : : :,, : :, :,, :, :, : :,, :,,,, :,,,, : :, : quick : quite : R R : raise : rate : : : : rates : :, :, reach : : read :, : ready :,, :, :,, : real : : :, : : really : : :, :, :, : : : :, reason : : : :, :, : : reasonable : : : : reasonably : rebuttal : : : receive : receiving : recognized :,, record : redeem : reduced : reduction : reflected : : : refused : : : regarding : regime : regulation :, : regulations : :,,, : regulatory :, : : REHNQUIST : : release : relevant : relied : relief :, relieve : rely :,, : relying : : remaining : : remarkably : : presented : presumably : presumed : : presumption :, : pretty : : prevail : th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC :, :,, :,,, :,, :,,, :,, : :,,, :, :, :,,,, : :,, :, :,, : :, :,, :,,, :,, :,, :, : : role : rule : : :,, : : :, : ruled : rules : : run : : : : : : : :,, :,, running :, runs : S S : : sale : satisfied : saw : saying : :, : :,, : : : : :,,, : :, :, : says : : : : Scalia : : : : : : scenario : Schism : second : : Secretary :, : section : :, sector : : : see :, :,, : : : : : : :, : seek : : :, seeking :,,,,, : sense :, : separate : : serious : severely : shed : shifted : ship : ships : short : shoulders : show :,,, : : : side : : : signed : : significant : simple : simply : : : situation : : : : : Page Solicitor : soon : : sorry : sort : source : Souter : : : sovereign : : :, so-called : space : : speak : special : specific : :,,, speculative : spelled : spent : spilling : spoken : start : : : starting : starts :,, : stated : statement : States :,,, :,,,, : statistics : status : statute : :,,,,, : : : :, :, :,, : :,, : : :, :, :, : :, : : : : :,,,,, : :,,, : :, : :,, :,, : statutes : : : Stone : street : strict : strictly :, :, strong : : structures : study : subject : : : : : : : : :, submission :, submit : : : submitted : : :, submitting : subsequent : : subsidiary : succeed : sue : : :,,, :, : : : : : : :, :, sued :, : : sufficient : suing :, : : : suit : :, : : : : : : summary : : remedy : rendered : : rent : : : rents : repayment : repeal :,,, repealed : repealing : reply : representation : representations : : repudiate : :, : repudiated : : repudiation : : :,, :, :, :, : : :,, : :, : : : :, : :, : : repudiatory : request : : : : : : : :, : : requests : : :,,, require : : requirements : : requisite : reserve : resolution : resolved : respect : : Respondent : : : response : : : responsible : rest : restricted : : restriction : restrictions : : :,, : : : : : : :, rests : result : : retract : retracted : return : revealed : right : : : : :, :,,,, :,,, : :, : : : : :, : :, :, : : : :,,, : :,, :, :,,,, : : : : : : : : : rights : : : : :, :, :, ripe : ripen : : Roberts : : :,, :,,, : :,,,, :, : : : situations :,, six : solely : th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC support : suppose :, : : : Supreme :, sure : : : : survey : suspect : sustain : T T :, take :, : : :, : : : taken :, :,,,, : takes : takings :,, : :, :,, : : : : talking : technically :, tell : : : : : tenants : : : : term : : : terms : : : Terrace : : Thank :, : theory : : : : : thing : : : : things : : : think : : : : : : :,, :, :, : :, :, :, thought : :, :, : time : : : :, : :,, :, : :,,, :, :, :,, : : : : : : : :, : : : : : : : :, timely : times : : timing : tolling :, total : : : tote : treat : : treated : trial : : tried : tries : true : : : : try : : trying :, : Tucker : two : :, : :, : twofold : type : U ultimately : unable : unconstitutionality : understand : : : : : : :, : : : : understanding : unfettered :, : unilateral : unique :,,,, United :,,, :,,,, units : unmistakability : use : : : :, :, : : : uses : usual : usually : U.S : V v :, :, : Valley : : valuation : value : :,, : :, : : valued : values : various : victims : :, view : : :, : : violation :, : virtue : voluntarily :, : : voluntary : volunteered : W wait : : : : :, waive : waiver : :, want : : : :, : : : : : : wanted : wants : :, warranty : Washington :, wasn't : : :, : water : way : :, : :, went : : weren't : : West : we'll : : : : : we're :, :, : : : : :, : : we've : : : : whatsoever : wherewithal : : wholly : Page widget : widgets :,,,, : willing : : win :,, : : Winstar : Winstar-Related :, withdraw : withdrawn : words : : : : work : worked : world : worry : :, worth : : wouldn't : : : : : : : : : : : : :,, : wrap : : write : : written : wrong : wrongful : X :, : X Y Y : year : : : years : : :,,, :,,, : : : : :,, : : : : : :, : York : Z : - : : Z : : , : :,, : : : : : : : : :, : : : :, : : : -year : : : :,, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Page : : : :,,, : : a : : : : : : : : -year : : : : : : : :,, : : : : : th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC 