 IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XPAUL D. LAPIDES, Petitioner ::v. : No. -BOARD OF REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY SYSTEM OF GEORGIA, ET AL. :::- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XWashington, D.C.Wednesday, February , The above-entitled matter came on for oralargument before the Supreme Court of the United States at: a.m.APPEARANCES:DAVID J. BEDERMAN, ESQ., Atlanta, Georgia; on behalf ofthe Petitioner.IRVING L. GORNSTEIN, ESQ., Assistant to the SolicitorGeneral, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; onbehalf of the United States, as amicus curiae,supporting the Petitioner. DEVON ORLAND, ESQ., Assistant Attorney General, Atlanta,Georgia; on behalf of the Respondents.JULIE C. PARSLEY, ESQ., Solicitor General, Austin, Texas;on behalf of Texas, et al., as amicus curiae, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC supporting the Respondents. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC C O N T E N T SORAL ARGUMENT OF DAVID J. BEDERMAN, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioner IRVING L. GORNSTEIN, ESQ.On behalf of the United States, as amicus curiae, supporting the Petitioner DEVON ORLAND, ESQ.On behalf of the Respondents JULIE C. PARSLEY, ESQ.On behalf of Texas, et al., PAGEas amicus curiae, supporting the Respondents REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OFDAVID J. BEDERMAN, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioner th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC P R O C E E D I N G S(: a.m.)CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: We'll hear argumentnext in No. -, Paul Lapides v. the Board of Regentsof the University System of Georgia.Mr. Bederman.ORAL ARGUMENT OF DAVID J. BEDERMANON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERMR. BEDERMAN: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court:When a State affirmatively invokes thejurisdiction of the Federal court by removing a case, thatacts as a waiver of the State's forum immunity to Federaljurisdiction under the Eleventh Amendment. This principlehas been confirmed as recently as this Court's decision inthe College Savings Bank case where it was indicated thata State may waive Eleventh Amendment immunity by invokingFederal court jurisdiction.This rule also finds support in a long line ofdecisions holding that where a State enters a Federalproceeding as an actor in any role, that effectivelyrelinquishes any objections to Federal jurisdiction aState may have under the Eleventh Amendment.QUESTION: When you say as an actor in any role,does it ever intervene as a defendant? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. BEDERMAN: Yes, Justice Scalia. ThisCourt's precedents seem to indicate that wherever theState is cast in the role of plaintiff, defendant,intervenor, or claimant, that the entry into the Federalproceeding submits the State to the jurisdiction of theFederal court.QUESTION: How about the Ford Motor Companycase?MR. BEDERMAN: Well, of course, theauthorization requirement in Ford Motor -- and that's theparticular holding in Ford Motor that I think is ofconcern to this Court -- need not be reached here because,of course, Ford Motor did not involve a case where a Statewas actually invoking Federal court jurisdiction. So --QUESTION: So, you think a line can be drawnbetween the State defendant being drawn in as a respondentor involuntarily as opposed to removing and therebyinvoking Federal jurisdiction. MR. BEDERMAN: Yes, Chief Justice. I think thekey element here is precisely the invocation of Federalcourt jurisdiction. And again, this -- that's consistentwith this Court's rulings in -- in Gardner and in -- andin Gunter and Clark where it's made clear that where theState actually is invoking Federal court jurisdiction, theproper inquiry is not the authority of the State officer th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC or attorney to waive Eleventh Amendment immunity. Theproper inquiry is whether the State officer or attorneyhad the power to engage in the litigation conduct leadingto the invocation of Federal court jurisdiction. QUESTION: In all -- in all those cases, theywere cases in which a State really consented to havelitigated against it a Federal claim in a Federal court. And it's hardly surprising, once you agree to that, thatyou also are agreeing to have related things litigatedagainst you. But this isn't that. This is a case where theonly reason that the State went into the Federal court wasso that the individual defendants would be able to invoketheir right to have the matter heard in a Federal court.So, why isn't the obvious solution here -- thereare only State claims left against the State which doesn'twant these heard in the Federal court. They haven'tagreed to have anything heard there against them. So,judge, send it back to the State court. What's it doinghere? They don't want it here. Call that pendentjurisdiction, pendent claims, but it's an abuse ofdiscretion, at least, not to send it back.MR. BEDERMAN: If I may make a number ofresponses to your question, Justice Breyer. First of all, I believe this Court's holdings th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC particularly in -- in Richardson, in Gunter do present asituation where -- where a State is entering theproceeding and -- in the role of a defendant and laterdecides to regret that -- that casting and tries toextricate itself from the proceeding. So, I think thereis authority in this Court's precedents to that extent.To your more general observation in terms of theharm here, in essence, weighing the plaintiff's interestin a single and unitary proceeding in State court, aresult which has been the -- this Court's jurisprudenceconstruing U.S.C. (c) for almost a century that --that the removal statute does not entitle defendants toremove and then split up claims --QUESTION: All right. Well, that's exactly --what if it's that? The interest of the plaintiff inhaving the action against the individuals in the Statetried in one place, on the one hand, against the interestof the State having a State matter tried in State courtwhere the State has refused to waive its immunity fromFederal jurisdiction. That for me is easy. One is aconstitutional right; the other happens to be a right of aplaintiff that he wouldn't have anyway if he had broughthis suit in Federal court, which is what removaljurisdiction is about. So, why doesn't the State clearlyprevail on that one? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. BEDERMAN: Well, Justice Breyer, again withrespect I think the -- the proper analysis I think closelyanalyzing the State's professed interests in removing andclaiming immunity was, first of all, to engage theexpertise of Federal tribunals on questions arising undersection and qualified immunity.QUESTION: May I stop you there? Because youmentioned section , and that makes this case terriblypuzzling because I thought States were not persons. So,if you're not subject to suit under --MR. BEDERMAN: That -- that's --QUESTION: That's the basis of -- you're suingthe State and the State is not a person within . So,even if you prevailed percent on your EleventhAmendment claim that you could remove despite thatsovereign immunity claim --MR. BEDERMAN: Justice Ginsburg, I -- I wouldremind the Court that, of course, there was relief pledfor declaratory relief in the complaint, and under thisCourt's jurisprudence following from Will, a declaratoryrelief claim is properly pled in this kind of proceeding. Of course, Will says --QUESTION: Against the State? I thought a Statewas not a person, period, under . A municipality is,a county is, but a State is not. It doesn't matter th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC whether it's declaratory, injunctive, whatever. They'renot subject to suit under . Isn't that right? MR. BEDERMAN: No, Justice Ginsburg. Under Ibelieve the footnote in -- in Will and also in thefollowing case, Arizona's Official English case, it madeclear that that interpretation of section of a personfor purposes of suit was for money damages and thatdeclaratory and injunctive relief, in order to keep thesymmetry, presumably with Ex parte Young, as I believethis Court indicated, was -- was a permissible pleading --QUESTION: Well, Ex parte Young is somethingdifferent. You're suing the officer, not the entity. MR. BEDERMAN: That's right, but recall that notonly are the regions being sued here but also individualsin their official capacity and as well as in -- in theirindividual capacity.QUESTION: No. But Justice Ginsburg I think hassaid the individuals are out of it. Qualified immunity. We're left with the State. She wrote for the Court inArizona Official English -- she says, the barrier was not,as the Ninth Circuit supposed, Eleventh Amendment immunitywhich the State could waive. The stopper was that creates no remedy against a State. Now, that's what theCourt held. So, creates no remedy against a State. So, you have no Federal claim against the State, and your th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC other Federal claims are disposed of. So, we're left with a purely State matter in theState court -- in the Federal court, and the State says,remand this, send it back. Now, why shouldn't they?MR. BEDERMAN: Well, again, my response to thatwould be plaintiffs do have an interest in seeing -- infiling a single, unitary action in State court, as wasproperly done here. And what the State of Georgia hasattempted to accomplish via its removal and claimingimmunity tactic is -- is to break the -- break theplaintiff's claim into discrete parts and dispose of them.QUESTION: I don't understand that either.What's very puzzling here is you wanted the case to be inState court, and then it was removed. You moved toremand, didn't you? MR. BEDERMAN: That's correct. QUESTION: And now you're getting just what youwant. You're getting the remand and you don't want it.MR. BEDERMAN: Well, it's -- it's the remandapparently with the -- the other consequences of theFederal court decisions to date. That's, of course,unfortunately one of the consequences of litigatingEleventh Amendment immunity is that this was taken as aninterlocutory appeal, and other proceedings of course haveoccurred since then. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: But there's been no kind ofadjudication on the merits against the State -- againstthe State entity in any way, shape, or form. MR. BEDERMAN: No. You are correct, JusticeGinsburg. To date, there have only been rulings by thedistrict court as affirmed by the court of appeals on thequalified immunity defense as against the -- theprivate --QUESTION: May I ask why it proceeded -- let meread you something else from one -- a fairly recentopinion. We have routinely addressed, before the questionwhether the Eleventh Amendment forbids a particularstatutory cause of action to be asserted against States,the question whether the statute itself permits the causeof action it creates to be asserted against States. Whydidn't the lower courts follow that procedure and -- anddecide the substantive issue of whether the State isliable first? MR. BEDERMAN: I -- I do not know, JusticeScalia. In terms of -- in terms of what I understand isthe briefing and argument, the State of Georgia did raisethe Will defense in its papers. The district court choseto proceed with the case on another ground, dismissing thesection claims against the private parties in theirindividual capacities on qualified immunity. Maybe there th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC was some concern about the status of the Board of Regents,but -- but I'm as mystified, frankly, as you are aboutthat disposition. Again, if I may repeat, the concern thatpetitioner ultimately has about the use of removal andclaims of immunity in this context is it splits claimswhich seems to be a result that's specifically prohibitedby the removal statute and this Court --QUESTION: But that seems to be a purelyacademic question not in this case because the qualifiedimmunity question, as I understand it, was decided againstthe individual officers. So, what Federal question --this goes back to what Justice Breyer asked. I don't seeany Federal question left in this entire case.MR. BEDERMAN: If -- if you're not taking wellmy point about the availability of declaratory relief --QUESTION: Well, at least the footnote that wasread didn't make any distinction based on declaratoryjudgment. It said a State is not a person for purposes. Period. That's what that footnote said. You're telling me now that I was wrong. MR. BEDERMAN: I would never presume such,Justice Ginsburg. (Laughter.) MR. BEDERMAN: I -- I think maybe the safest th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC result -- of course, this has not been briefed -- iswhether this Court's judgment in Will and subsequently inArizonans for an Official English reaches this preciseissue that I'm speaking to. No lower court has addressedProfessor Lapides' request for declaratory relief. Nobriefing has been accomplished on that, and there's beenno --QUESTION: But if you're not right about ,assume now that a State is not a person for purposes of.MR. BEDERMAN: Yes. QUESTION: Then what Federal element -- whatFederal question is left in the case? MR. BEDERMAN: There would be none left. QUESTION: And then with all the EleventhAmendment jurisprudence in the world, it would make sensefor any district judge to hang onto a case that at thethreshold had all the Federal elements taken out of it andhas nothing but State claims left. MR. BEDERMAN: Certainly after theseproceedings, that might be the result that a districtcourt judge in the exercise of -- of its discretion maywish to -- to achieve. Our concern is precisely the onethat when Georgia invoked the jurisdiction of the Federalcourts for removal, it should have been with the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC understanding that all claims would move to Federal court,that the State could raise whatever defenses it wished to,in other words, the defenses travel to Federal court. Butwhat is not a permissible result is, in essence, the --the splitting of claims, the disposition to Federal courtand then --QUESTION: I don't see how that -- how yourclient is in any way harmed by any of this because he endsup with what he wanted is his suit in State court.MR. BEDERMAN: Well, if I may make a broaderpoint. The Eleventh Circuit's judgment, from which appealis sought here, is not entirely clear about thisdistinction between barred and non-barred claims. Thatwas not, of course, settled in any further proceedings inthe district court as to whether now the State claimswould proceed by remand back to State court. Of course, the State of Georgia sought thedismissal of the entirety of Professor Lapides' case underrule (b)() when it removed the case. So, it's -- it'snow -- not entirely clear at the outset what Georgia'sintentions were in removing the case and then seekingimmunity.Our proposition is simply that, as a matter ofnot only judicial efficiency but also the integrity of theremoval statute and the fair meaning and understanding of th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC this Court's Eleventh Amendment jurisprudence, is thatwhen a State invokes Federal court jurisdiction under theEleventh Amendment, the entire case then moves to Federalcourt and that the State cannot, thereafter, claimimmunity from the jurisdiction of the Federal courts inthose circumstances. If the State does not have the authority -- andthis was an earlier question -- under Ford Motor Companyto waive the State's Eleventh Amendment immunity viaremoval, the proper course should have been in this casesimply for -- to find the removal was void ab initio andhave the entire matter remanded --QUESTION: But that's the end result you'regetting. You're getting a remand and you want to have adifferent label put on it. But the bottom line is youwanted a suit in State court. That was removed. There --there's no Federal element left. I can't imagine adistrict judge who would hang onto such a case. MR. BEDERMAN: Well, again, I would not presumeto anticipate the future proceedings and that may --QUESTION: Well, your legal position isbasically that a State should not be able to talk out ofboth sides of its mouth I guess. It should not be able toremove and then when it gets to Federal court claimEleventh Amendment immunity. Now, how much of that th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC argument is still valid after what's happened in this caseI'm not sure.MR. BEDERMAN: Well, I think even thoughpetitioner is, understandably, reluctant to introduce anidiom of judicial estoppel into these proceedings with --with obviously the clear indication that rules of estoppeltend not to run against the sovereign, but again that isprecisely our concern. In the matter of -- of the -- the symmetry andparity that occurs that when a State enters a Federalproceeding, it submits the entire case to the -- to thejurisdiction of the Federal courts.QUESTION: May I ask you, Mr. Bederman? In thebrief in opposition to the certiorari petition, did anyonepoint out the fact that maybe the State was not a personwithin the meaning of and that that was the reasonnot to take the case? MR. BEDERMAN: Well, if I may review quickly. Yes. And I do recall that the State did raise in its opcert at page the argument under Will. I -- yes. Theydo opine that Will would -- would act against the -- theclaims raised for monetary relief by petitioners here.QUESTION: They're only after monetary relief.MR. BEDERMAN: I would not want to put thatgloss on -- on the States. I'm reading just an isolated th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC passage on page of their op cert. That -- that is, inessence, the -- the open question. If I could return, Chief Justice Rehnquist, toyour -- to your observation. Again, while we don't thinkit's necessary for the Court to rule on any judicialestoppel principles, clearly this is an appropriate caseto draw a bright line rule in terms of States invokingFederal court jurisdiction. Either they have theauthority to do so and waive Eleventh Amendment immunityand the entire case proceeds to Federal court or the Stateofficials or lawyers do not have that authority and theproper disposition is remand. If I may reserve the balance of my time. QUESTION: Very well, Mr. Bederman. Mr. Gornstein, we'll hear from you.ORAL ARGUMENT OF IRVING L. GORNSTEINON BEHALF OF THE UNITED STATES,AS AMICUS CURIAE, SUPPORTING THE PETITIONERMR. GORNSTEIN: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court:For four reasons, a State's removal of a case toFederal court waives its forum immunity, permittingadjudication of the claims against the State in Federal --QUESTION: Explain to me whether we've everbifurcated forum immunity from immunity for suit -- from th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC suit? I just -- do we treat the two differently? MR. GORNSTEIN: They are both protections thatare afforded by the Eleventh Amendment. Certainly a Statehas both of those rights under the Eleventh Amendment.But the question is the State can waive onewithout waiving the other, and that's what it did here, byselecting a forum, Federal forum, for the adjudication ofthe claim. But in doing that, it did not give up thedefenses that it had in State court. And one of thedefenses that it had in State court, and it would alsohave in Federal court, is a right not to be sued at all onconstitutional claims. But what it did give up is theright to proceed in State court, rather than Federalcourt, on the claims that it already has waived in Statecourt. Now, the principle that justifies -- the -- theState's invocation of Federal court jurisdiction throughremoval is a particularly clear example of a Statevoluntarily invoking Federal court jurisdiction.QUESTION: Mr. Gornstein, may I deflect you? Because I got from your brief the notion that this case isacademic, and let me read you from page , note . Thequestion whether a State that removes a case waives itsimmunity to constitutional claims is largely academic. Section does not authorize a suit against a State in th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC either State or Federal court. It seems to me that youwere telling us in that footnote that whatever is saidabout the removal, this case goes because the State is notsubject to . MR. GORNSTEIN: To the extent that there areconstitutional claims against a State, that's correct. Tothe extent that there are State law claims against theState, that is not correct because the State has waivedits forum immunity with respect to the State law claims --QUESTION: Would a district judge be actingreasonably to hold onto a case that has no Federal claimthat involves the State tort claims act, that those are --the State claims are under the State's own tort claimsact, like the Federal Tort Claims Act. Can you -- could aFederal judge justify sitting to adjudicate a case againsta State under the State's tort claims act?MR. GORNSTEIN: Justice Ginsburg, that would bea question for the exercise of the district court'sdiscretion under the supplemental jurisdiction grounds. That -- certainly if the Federal -- all the Federal claimswere out of the case, one ground for remanding the rest ofthe cases under the supplemental jurisdiction statutewould be present. It would be a matter, though, for theexercise of the district court's discretion.QUESTION: It was always my understanding that th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC the district court would take into account how far have wegotten into the case --MR. GORNSTEIN: Correct.QUESTION: -- from the Federal --MR. GORNSTEIN: Right. QUESTION: If you drop here, the Federal issuedrops out at the very threshold.MR. GORNSTEIN: Correct, and that would arguemore strongly in favor of the district court exercisingits discretion in that direction, assuming there's noother Federal claim in the case. And let me just addressthat briefly because it is our understanding that a suitagainst a State official in his official capacity forinjunctive or declaratory relief is not a suit against theState and it is a suit against the person under -- undersection . So, if there is a claim -- and I'm unsureof whether the complaint should be read that way, but ifthere is a claim against the individual defendants intheir official capacities for declaratory or injunctiverelief --QUESTION: I thought the -- the motion todismiss as to the individuals was granted on the groundsof qualified immunity. MR. GORNSTEIN: Only as to the claims againstthem in their personal capacities, not as -- with respect th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC to the claims against them in their official capacities. So, that claim, if it's -- if it was there to start with,it's still there. QUESTION: I don't understand the differencebetween a claim against the State itself and the claimagainst the State officer in his or her official capacity.MR. GORNSTEIN: The distinction that the courtdrew was -- is this -- traces its origins to Ex parteYoung, that that is a suit against the officer in hisofficial capacity. There's no allegation that he's doneanything in violation of State law, and you're not tryingto --QUESTION: What Mr. Lapides wants -- Mr.Lapides, as I understand it, wants a money judgment.MR. GORNSTEIN: I think it's -- it's largelytrue that he wants a money judgment, but there is oneallegation in his complaint upon which he relies in sayingthat he's also seeking declaratory relief against anindividual -- an individual officer in his officialcapacity.QUESTION: So, that's like suing the State. In-- in other words, there is a claim. Under -- under . A State is a person when you ask -- say I want aninjunction. The State is a person. MR. GORNSTEIN: I would say -- I don't want to th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC quibble too much with the semantics, but I would just -- Iwould put it this way. The official is not the State forpurposes of --QUESTION: All right. Then that's a differentmatter. So, what you're saying is there is an actionagainst the official. All right. That's not the issuebecause they dismissed all the claims against theofficials. MR. GORNSTEIN: No, they did not --QUESTION: Oh. So, there's still an action leftagainst the officials. Fine. MR. GORNSTEIN: If it was ever there, JusticeBreyer --QUESTION: Fine. Okay, I got it.MR. GORNSTEIN: -- it's still there. QUESTION: Now, if that's so, how could it notbe an abuse of discretion? Assuming if that's even there,how could it not be an abuse of discretion to refuse tosend this back to the State?MR. GORNSTEIN: Again --QUESTION: A purely State matter. And -- and I'm not, you know, overwhelmingly farout I think in this area, but I don't really see why --why the State here wouldn't have a right to have it sentback on the ground it would -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. GORNSTEIN: Well --QUESTION: -- be an abuse of discretion not to.MR. GORNSTEIN: It -- it wouldn't have a rightto have the case sent back.QUESTION: Why not? MR. GORNSTEIN: It would never -- because it's amatter for the district court --QUESTION: There is an abuse of discretion undercertain circumstances. MR. GORNSTEIN: And what I would say --QUESTION: Yes. MR. GORNSTEIN: That would be the questionwhether there is an abuse of discretion.QUESTION: And why not?MR. GORNSTEIN: And the -- I don't want to arguethat part of the case too much, but the reason would be ifthere are still Federal law claims against -- *gamesagainst the -- individuals and they arise out of a commonnucleus of operative facts with the claims against theState, then it would still be fair to try those claims inFederal court because the State made a voluntary choice tobring this case into Federal court. It had an option toleave the entire suit in State court if it wanted to. Itexercised the option to bring the case into Federal court.Now, once it did that, under Federal law, the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Federal consequence of that is that a Federal court hasauthority to adjudicate the very claims that the State hasbrought there. And the principle that --QUESTION: Are you saying that it's a differentcase because the State removed it than it would have beenif the same factual circumstance had occurred in the caseoriginally brought in the district court?MR. GORNSTEIN: I am, Mr. Chief Justice, becauseunder this Court's decision in Pennhurst, if a plaintifffiles a suit in Federal court that includes both Federallaw claims and State law claims, the State law claimsagainst the State are -- have to be dismissed underPennhurst. But the situation is different. This plaintiffdid just what the Pennhurst opinion suggested that heshould do, which is to file his claims against the Stateunder State law in State court. And -- and with that, headded his Federal law claims so that he could have asingle lawsuit filed in a single forum. Now, what the removal statute says is thatthere's only can be removal if there -- you get theconsent of all the parties to the removal of the entirecase. The removal statute does not allow for State courtdefendants to divide up a single case or controversy intotwo different cases in two different forums. And the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC State is effectively seeking to accomplish that goal. Now, it says it needs to do that because itwants to get the benefit of a Federal forum for its Stateemployees. But the -- just because the State has adifficult choice to make about whether to remove a case toFederal court or not doesn't mean its decision to bringthe case to Federal court isn't voluntary. It's still avoluntary decision to bring the case to Federal court.It's also a little surprising to hear the Statesay that it needs to have a Federal forum for its Stateofficials on Federal law issues when the State hasrepeatedly and successfully argued to this Court thatState courts are fully competent and just as competent asFederal courts to adjudicate Federal law issues. And it's -- it's particularly surprising thatthe State thinks it's in the State's interest for itsemployees to get an interlocutory appeal in Federal courtwhen the State's own policy is that they aren't entitledto an interlocutory appeal.QUESTION: Well, the State is certainly entitledto make a tactical judgment --MR. GORNSTEIN: It certainly is.QUESTION: -- that it's better off in Federalcourt than it is in State court.MR. GORNSTEIN: It absolutely is, Mr. Chief th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Justice, and all we are saying is once it does that, thenit has to accept the consequences of that choice, which isthe Federal court then has authority to adjudicate theentire case that has been brought before them -- beforeit.I wanted to say a word about the -- the FordMotor Company case because in the Ford Motor Company case,the Court did deem State law authority to consent to bethe critical issue. But all other decisions in which theCourt has addressed the invocation issue, the Court hasheld that an individual when -- I mean, when a Stateinvokes Federal court jurisdiction, it waives immunity asa matter of Federal law. QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. Gornstein. Ms. Orland, we'll hear from you.ORAL ARGUMENT OF DEVON ORLANDON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTSMS. ORLAND: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court:The State, along with its employees, removedthis case to Federal court so that its employees couldtake advantage of a -- in a Federal forum. This does not amount to a waiver for tworeasons. First, it is not a clear and unequivocalexpression of the State's desire to waive its immunity, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC and second, the attorney --QUESTION: Is it a waiver of forum immunity asopposed to immunity from suit? Is there such adistinction? MS. ORLAND: Your Honor, this Court has nevermade such a distinction, and the first I've ever heard ofthe concept of forum immunity being parceled out from therest of the immunity was in this case. Apparently therewas a recognition at some point by the petitioner in thiscase that the Federal claims would be barred even in Statecourt, and then they've come up with this forum immunityconcept.QUESTION: It's not -- it's -- I mean, theconcept has been around. I mean, we've -- we've held thata State does not -- just because a State is willing to besued in its own courts does not automatically mean that itcan therefore be sued in Federal court. Isn't that right?MS. ORLAND: Your Honor, the concept of what --QUESTION: Which -- which means that -- that youcan be immune in one forum and not immune in anotherforum, although you're not immune from the suit entirely.MS. ORLAND: Your Honor, that is exactly whatthe Court found in Pennhurst, but I would suggest that theCourt has also found in Pennhurst that the absence of thatchoice, that concrete choice, would emasculate the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Eleventh Amendment. So, what is being argued is by theexercise of procedural device for the benefit of ouremployees would cause a State to sacrifice a part of theimmunity which the absence of would emasculate --QUESTION: Well, that's -- you know, that's toobad, isn't it? MS. ORLAND: Well, Your Honor --QUESTION: The cost of getting the advantage ofFederal courts is that you -- you come into Federal court. It seems to me self-evident. Now, you say I have a good reason for wanting tobe in Federal court. Well, you may indeed. But there youare.MS. ORLAND: Your Honor, first of all, I'd liketo point out that that cost is just too high. As thezealous advocate on behalf of all of my clients, I have tochoose between the individual's right to deal with the lawas it is in the State of Georgia, whether that's the Stateof Georgia's choice or not, but the law in the State ofGeorgia at the present time is that there is no right todirect appeal. So, as a zealous advocate on behalf of theindividual employees, we have a desire to protect theindividual employees from the right --QUESTION: But that's a right of the State ofGeorgia to protect the individual employees, and the State th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC of Georgia has said the right to an interlocutory appealis not all that important. You have the substantivedefense that you just can't because Georgia has its ownchoice of whether it's better to have this decided afterthe whole case or in the middle. They think it's betterto wait till the case is over. Now, why can't Georgiamake that decision? MS. ORLAND: Georgia absolutely can make thatdecision, Your Honor, through its legislative process, andthat's part of the point.QUESTION: Well, why shouldn't that decisionalso influence the tactical decisions of the attorneygeneral when he's litigating? MS. ORLAND: Because the attorney generalrepresents more than just the State in a lawsuit such asthis. The individuals are also being represented by theattorney general, and the State should not be required tosacrifice all or part of its Eleventh Amendment immunityso that the attorney general can zealously advocate --QUESTION: But it's the State of Georgia'slegislature who have made the decision that's troublingfor the State of Georgia's employees. MS. ORLAND: Your Honor, but the employees haveto take the law as it is.QUESTION: Well, and the legislature didn't say th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC that no Georgia employee shall ever have an interlocutoryappeal in any court. It had just said they don't happenin Georgia courts. MS. ORLAND: That's correct, and Congress hasseen fit to allow for a procedural device for Statedefendants or any other defendants to take advantage ofthe procedures available to them. But nowhere didCongress --QUESTION: But you're missing one very key thinghere. Congress said in order to remove, all defendantsmust remove. Those officers could not have been -- couldnot have removed on their own. They had to have theState's consent. And for the State, after consenting, tosay, oh, we're going to accommodate you, we'll join in theremoval, but as soon as we get there, we're going to comeout, it seems to me that is just the clearest end runaround Congress' direction that all defendants have tojoin in the removal petition. It would be a sham removalif someone were to say, okay, I agree to remove and be inthe Federal court, but the minute I get to Federal court,I'm going to say, Federal court, you can't get me.MS. ORLAND: First of all, Your Honor, Congressdid not expressly state that all defendants needed toagree. That is a court-created doctrine, and I'm notgoing to challenge the -- that doctrine. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: It's a court interpretation of theremoval statute.MS. ORLAND: Yes, Your Honor. QUESTION: And -- and you're not going tochallenge that. So, it's as good as if it were in thestatute, just as the sovereign immunity doctrine, althoughit's not in the Eleventh Amendment, is there.MS. ORLAND: Your Honor, all that is true. ButCongress also contemplated the remand of certain claims. And the only thing the State is asking in this case is forthe case to be treated as if it were originally filed inFederal court, which it is our belief is the true intentof the congressional removal statute. They didn't allowpartial claims to be brought up, and the reason theydidn't allow for it is because of the court's potentialexercise of supplemental jurisdiction. But in this case, there can be no exercise ofsupplemental jurisdiction simply because the legislaturefor the State of Georgia has not waived its sovereignimmunity as to the Georgia Tort Claims Act for actionswithin the courts of the United States. So, in this case, by the exercise of aprocedural device, the attorney general would not be onlyoverriding the very principles established in the conceptsof federalism, but would also be overriding the -- the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC decisions of the State legislature and the Georgiaconstitution. QUESTION: Ms. Orland, then it seems to me theobvious thing that the zealous representative of the Statewould say is, sorry, we can't join in the removalpetition. This case belongs in State court and we're notgoing to engage in any subterfuge. We -- it's just asthough it were brought originally. It would be no good. So, we are not going to go through the sham of signing ourname onto a removal petition only to say that this casecan't be brought in Federal court. If the State werezealous in its position that only the State court canadjudicate this, it had no business signing on to anyremoval petition.MS. ORLAND: Your Honor, I understand theconcerns of the Court regarding the concept of sayingwe're going to Federal court, but no, we're not. The --but the reality of the removal statute is, is it doesn'tallow for the removal of some claims, and that's aprocedural device available. If there's a remedy to behad, the remedy to be had is with Congress. If there's aproblem with the removal statute not allowing certainclaims to be brought in Federal court and therefore thewhole case can't be removed --QUESTION: There's nothing wrong with the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC statute. It says all defendants have to join in theremoval, and the removal has to be -- it seems to me thatthe State of Georgia really is playing rather fast andloose with the -- with the Federal court when it says,aha, we're going to bring this to accommodate -- toaccommodate two people who couldn't do it on their own.MS. ORLAND: Your Honor --QUESTION: It seems to me that the case onGeorgia's own theory is non-removable from day one, andthat's the position that Georgia should have taken. Thisis not a case for a Federal court.MS. ORLAND: Then by very virtue of a shamjoinder of the State in a case, which in this casearguably was done by suing the case -- State under and further by attempting to sue the State, for whichthere has been no waiver of sovereign immunity as todefamation of liable, a plaintiff can shamly decide thatindividuals won't be entitled to --QUESTION: The plaintiff in this case wanted tobe in the State court. It's the State that said Federalcourt. So, you can't -- this -- that's why this case isso puzzling because it's the plaintiff who wants to be inthe Federal court -- in the State court. And -- and theState wants to take it into the Federal court. It reallyis something that only a lawyer could conceive. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC (Laughter.) MS. ORLAND: Your Honor, I think that theproblem here is, is that by virtue of litigation,individual employees get sued. And it does create sort ofa quandary of issues because the individuals have adesire, quite understandably I'm sure, to get the caseresolved, to --QUESTION: But -- but you're asking for abroader principle, which it may well be that in -- in itsapplication to your case there's some -- you canunderstand why the -- why the State wanted to go intoFederal court. But what you're asking for is the generalprinciple that by coming into Federal court, you do notwaive State sovereign immunity, and that general principlewould have applied even if you had been the only defendantin the State court. And you removed to Federal court, andthen having gotten into Federal court, you moved todismiss on grounds of sovereign immunity, which is absurd.MS. ORLAND: Your Honor, I would agree it'sabsurd, and that type of behavior could be sanctioned bythe court. If a lawyer is going to play those kinds ofgames, it is certainly within the court -- districtcourt's province to sanction ill-behavior. And that'swhat is being alleged that we did. But what I would point out is that every -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: On what -- on what grounds would yousanction the behavior if you're saying that it's lawful. I don't understand that. MS. ORLAND: Your Honor, if it --QUESTION: You're saying, counsel, you haveexercised every right that we can give you under the law. We're now sanctioning you for doing that. That -- I don'tunderstand that. MS. ORLAND: I'm sorry if I misspoke. If alawyer is going to remove a case and do it for thepurposes of delay or some other misconceived purpose --QUESTION: Lawyers do all sorts of things forthe purposes of delay. (Laughter.)MS. ORLAND: And it's improper. QUESTION: I'm not -- I'm not sure it is. Ithink in many cases an attorney will look at two differentchoices, particularly if you're a defendant, and you'llchoose the thing that will delay the case's finalresolution. And nothing improper about that. MS. ORLAND: There's nothing improper aboutthat, but in the scenario that if it is improper, if it isdetermined that there is some attempt to elongatelitigation for an improper purpose, the court has thediscretion to sanction that behavior. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Moreover, Congress has the ability to change --QUESTION: Yes, but you're not -- they're notelongating the case. They're trying to terminate it in ahurry in this particular --(Laughter.) QUESTION: And I just don't understand how thatcould possibly be sanctionable conduct if we say it's aproper usage of the removal statute and it doesn't waivesovereign immunity. They'll do it all the time. MS. ORLAND: Your Honor, I'm not saying we didanything improper. I'm saying that in the event thatsomebody did do something improper, that's sanctionable.QUESTION: Yes, but the question is whether thisparticular maneuver is -- is authorized by law or not. And if it's authorized by law, it surely isn't improper.QUESTION: Indeed, it would be improper not totake advantage of it.QUESTION: Sure. QUESTION: You should be sanctioned asincompetent counsel. (Laughter.) MS. ORLAND: Hence, the quandary of being aState litigator, Your Honor. And that's exactly thepoint. We have several clients here. The -- the attorneygeneral's office represents the individuals as well as the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC State entity on both State and Federal claims. You're right. All of the Federal claims aregone. Even if you read at joint appendix theplaintiff's assertion that he is seeking declaratoryrelief, which I would suggest is not a clear statement ofdeclaratory relief -- it is a request for declaratoryrelief under State law. So, if the Court --QUESTION: It just occurred to me that maybethere is sanctionable conduct here because you have aconflict of interest. Your interest in the employees isdefinitely directly opposed to your interest representingthe State. So, maybe you should have gotten separatecounsel. MS. ORLAND: Well, Your Honor, in fact at somepoint in this litigation we did. But at the initial pointof the removal, there was no reason to. And I think this goes to Justice Kennedy'sconcurrence in Wisconsin, which is if the State is goingto be placed in some tactical disadvantage, this ruleshould not be adopted. The tactical disadvantage in this case is quitesimple. The State would be at odds with its employees. The State would not be in a position where there is noEleventh Amendment protection as to some claims perhaps --or it hasn't been decided yet for ADA Title II claims -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC to have a Federal court be the first to adjudicate thosetypes of issues and have the fastest course to this Courtfor a determination --QUESTION: The State would be at odds with itsemployees because the employees want an interlocutoryappeal and they can't get it in the State court?MS. ORLAND: Yes, Your Honor.QUESTION: That -- that sort of thing arisesfrequently. Do you move for a change of venue or not in aparticular case where you've got multiple defendants? Andas Justice Stevens said, perhaps a lawyer ought not tohave multiple defendants if they're going to havedifferent -- different approaches to the thing.MS. ORLAND: Well, Your Honor, I think that's --that's exactly the point here is -- and also the point asto why the attorney general, as the litigator on behalf ofthe State and its employees, should not be in a positionto make a decision as to waiver. That's why it goes tothe legislature.QUESTION: May I interrupt once more? I hate to-- I'm sorry --MS. ORLAND: I'm sorry, Your Honor.QUESTION: -- I'm interrupting so many times.But is it your position that the general ruleshould be that removal waives the State's sovereign th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC immunity, but there should be an exception when there's agood reason because of a conflict of interest? Or is your-- your position is that it will never waive sovereignimmunity?MS. ORLAND: Your Honor, the only time that itcould waive sovereign immunity is if the State legislaturesays I authorize the attorney general --QUESTION: No. Absent a State legislature --you're arguing for a general rule, not just for a rulethat will protect you in this particular case.MS. ORLAND: That is correct. QUESTION: Well, a general rule. My goodness. Suppose the State comes in and they have four claims andthey -- they wanted -- they say, oh, I have a great idea. I'm going to get this claim litigated over here in theFederal court and there are three related claims. It's abankruptcy matter, for example, and they just pick andchoose. I mean, normally when -- when you have waiver inconstitutional law, say the Fifth Amendment, you -- youstart waiving answers to one question and relatedquestions are going to be waived too. MS. ORLAND: Well, Your Honor, and that'sexactly the point, is there is no clear statement ofwaiver here by Congress or the State legislature. I don'tthink you can just pick and choose a waiver. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: All right. Well, I mean, but JusticeStevens' question is that you're arguing for a generalprinciple that -- that they don't waive anything. Is thatright? They -- they come into Federal court. Why didthey do it? They came into Federal court in all theseothers because there was a claim they wanted litigatedeither for them or against the State. So, I would havethought they would at least have waived all relatedmatters. MS. ORLAND: Your Honor, in all the cases reliedupon by the petitioner where the State has come intoFederal court, the court's first inquiry was whether theEleventh Amendment applied. In all of those cases, thecourt first found that the Eleventh Amendment simply wasinapplicable. When the State is acting as a plaintiff orin any form or fashion or entering in as a party, it's nota suit commenced or prosecuted against the State. Thepetitioner in this case conceded that the act of removaldoes not translate the State from a defendant to aplaintiff. Yet, they are asserting that the cases wherethe State has entered in as a plaintiff somehow areapplicable, and they are not applicable.QUESTION: But on your theory, even if the Statehad come in as a plaintiff in the first place, you would th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC have sovereign immunity, wouldn't you? Because thelegislature hasn't waived it.MS. ORLAND: Your Honor, the Eleventh Amendmentwould just simply be inapplicable if the State entered as-- as a plaintiff. QUESTION: I thought you were claiming sovereignimmunity. I mean, it -- I mean, sovereign immunity todayis something broader than the strict terms of the EleventhAmendment, and I thought you were making the -- the fullclaim.MS. ORLAND: Your Honor, I'm sorry. I'mbaffled. But I think that sovereign immunity --QUESTION: Well, I have had that problem too insome of the prior cases. (Laughter.) QUESTION: But I -- I haven't agreed with them,but I -- I have to accept what they are. And -- and the-- the principle of sovereign immunity is a principletoday that is not limited by the -- by the strict terms ofthe Eleventh Amendment.MS. ORLAND: As was pointed out I guess in Aldenis the Eleventh Amendment has stood for the greaterprinciples of sovereign immunity, and I think that that'swhat we're talking about here. And I think it's also beenconcretely held that the Eleventh Amendment in its broader th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC principles perhaps doesn't apply to the State when itenters into an action as a plaintiff. And I think thatthat's an entirely different -- I'm sorry.QUESTION: No. I -- I want to ask you a -- akind of question which is subsumed -- a narrower questionwhich is subsumed within the broader one, and that islet's -- let's put this situation aside and assume that wehave the -- the conflict-free situation in which theemployees have their own counsel and the -- the State is-- is represented simply by -- by separate counsel. Theemployees want to remove and the State, as -- as adefendant separately represented, agrees to the removal. On your theory, as I understand it, the State would stillbe able at a later time to claim its immunity because thelegislature had not authorized that removal. Is thatcorrect?MS. ORLAND: It's not that the legislaturehasn't authorized the removal. It's that the legislaturehasn't authorized a waiver of the State's immunity.QUESTION: All right. And -- and so, in -- inthat particular case that I -- I posed to you in which wehave separately represented defendants, the State consentsto the removal. The State still would not have lost itsimmunity by consenting to the removal.MS. ORLAND: No, it would not, Your Honor, and I th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC think --QUESTION: All right. Now, in that situationthen, how do you answer the argument that came up in thebriefs that that would give the -- the State theopportunity to sit back and see how things go? And if the-- if the case turns out well for them, they can claim the-- the judgment. If the State doesn't go well for them,they can simply raise the question of immunity not only toescape the judgment, but to escape any estoppel later on. I mean, is -- is there any answer to that, or do yousimply say, yup, that's a great position to be in andthat's our position?MS. ORLAND: Well, Your Honor, first of all, Iwould say that that is a different situation. Obviouslythe Court knows that. But this Court's jurisprudence isconsistent with the State being able to assert itsEleventh Amendment immunity at any time. The Court hasnot differed from that jurisprudence. But what I would point out in this case is theState was very up-front from the beginning. Thiswasn't --QUESTION: No, I'm not talking about thissituation. I'm talking about where your position leadsus. And I take it that your position does lead us to the-- to the sort of the options that -- that I've just th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC described. MS. ORLAND: Your Honor, it does but -- and Ithink that that would be consistent with this Court'sjurisprudence. But at the same time, I would suggest thatthe State has a vested interest in not going to trial atall. So, I would suggest that since Ford, there probablyhaven't been a lot of situations where the State has beenin a position of litigating a case to the end, and ithasn't come up since Ford. So, I think that that's fairlysignificant. QUESTION: Ms. Orland, what if -- what if your-- your State attorney general brings suit in Federalcourt?MS. ORLAND: Then the Eleventh Amendment simplydoesn't apply.QUESTION: Why? He has no authority to waivesovereign immunity you say.MS. ORLAND: There's no waiver of sovereignimmunity --QUESTION: What about a counterclaim by thedefendant? MS. ORLAND: There's no dipping into the State'spocket. The counterclaim can go as far as the defense. This Court has repeatedly found that an entry into a forumor the beginning of suit allows the party being sued to th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC defend against the claim. But that's not the same asdipping into the State's pocket.What the petitioner is alleging is that somehowthe bifurcation of cases is an unheard of result and thatit should be exchanged from the State's -- thank you. QUESTION: Thank you, Ms. Orland.Ms. Parsley, we'll hear from you.ORAL ARGUMENT OF JULIE C. PARSLEYON BEHALF OF TEXAS, ET AL.,AS AMICUS CURIAE, SUPPORTING THE RESPONDENTSMS. PARSLEY: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice, andmay it please the Court:The decision to waive sovereign immunity andconsent to suit traditionally rests with the State'slegislature, a body uniquely able to both balancechallenges to the public fisc and determine when such awaiver is both in the citizens' will and the public good.QUESTION: Have we inquired, when States bring asuit in Federal court, whether the State attorney generalhas authority to appear? Because, you know, when you comein Federal court and you're subject to a counterclaim. Have we -- have we asked district judges to inquirewhether the State attorney general has authority to waivesovereign immunity?MS. PARSLEY: No, Your Honor, the Court has not. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: We have not. And -- and is it yourposition that as soon as a counterclaim is filed, what? The whole suit has to be dismissed or -- or what -- whathappens then? MS. PARSLEY: No, Your Honor. Our positionwould be that as to the -- the specific compulsorycounterclaim that may be litigated against the State as aplaintiff, that is permissible to the extent of the res. In other words, when the State comes in as a plaintiff --QUESTION: Excuse me. To the extent -- I didn'thear the word. MS. PARSLEY: The res, the subject matter of thelitigation. QUESTION: So, you say the attorney general,even though he has no power to waive State sovereignimmunity, can achieve a waiver of State sovereign immunityby bringing suit which is subject to a compulsorycounterclaim. MS. PARSLEY: He does have the authority torepresent the State, and presumably he has the authorityalso by the legislature to bring the cause of action thathe is asserting with the State as a plaintiff. QUESTION: So, the same here when -- when hedoesn't have authority to waive sovereign immunity, but hehas authority to remove to Federal court. And if that th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC results in a waiver of sovereign immunity, so be it.MS. PARSLEY: But the two are specificallydifferent because, as a defendant, you're looking at this-- it would be an implied waiver as opposed to an expresswaiver. As a plaintiff, even the United States, it hasbeen admitted, they are not -- they are also subject towaiver for compulsory counterclaims to the extent of theres. It has been --QUESTION: Why isn't that an implied waiver too?Brings suit -- the -- the State brings suit in Federalcourt is subject to a counterclaim. And you're sayingthat the State is -- is subject to adjudication of thatcounterclaim. Now, there's no express waiver there. It'sjust an implied waiver from bringing the action in Federalcourt. Why isn't removal the same? MS. PARSLEY: Well, that is the situation thatoccurred in Gardner, Your Honor, for the -- for the proofof claim instance with bankruptcy litigation. And that is-- so, it is not -- and it's not been seen as an impliedwaiver because the State has put in issue the res and thesubject matter of the litigation. But in this case --QUESTION: Well, you speak of the res of thelitigation. Supposing the State simply wants to collect abad debt from somebody. There's no res. Maybe he doesn't th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC have anything at all. But it simply wants a moneyjudgment against him for $,.MS. PARSLEY: Yes, Your Honor. That would be --then the State would be able --QUESTION: There's no -- there's no res there.MS. PARSLEY: But it is the subject matter ofthe litigation; that is, his -- that would be what theState would be adjudicating. In this instant, what distinguishes it is thatthe State is not transformed from a defendant to aplaintiff when it removes to Federal court, and theliteral text of the Eleventh Amendment proscribes casesprosecuted against a State.QUESTION: What happens under State law, say, inTexas if -- it's a tort action. It's against the State. Everybody in your office thinks that there is no sovereignimmunity, but just before the jury is about to come in,somebody dredges up a statute and says, oh, my God, we hadsovereign immunity. We forgot to make the defense.MS. PARSLEY: The Texas Supreme Court has heldthat sovereign immunity is subject matter jurisdiction.QUESTION: So, in other words, you can come inin Texas, a jury is about to come in, you're just about tolose the case, the last minute you discover this defense,and just they'll -- they'll dismiss the case? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MS. PARSLEY: That actually, to my knowledge,has not happened yet. That case was decided only a coupleof years ago.QUESTION: They wouldn't say you had waived it.MS. PARSLEY: No. We -- we would not assertthat we have waived --QUESTION: I know you wouldn't assert that. Ijust wonder what the judge in Texas --MS. PARSLEY: We would hope the judge wouldagree with us.But that -- and that is. You put your finger onthe point that some -- that people dislike about sovereignimmunity. It does give the State superior rights in someinstances to other litigants, but that is because theState is a sovereign, just like the U.S. is a sovereign. The immunity --QUESTION: I don't -- I don't object to that. Iobject to -- to a dog in the manger, I mean, to say onething and then say another thing. And here's the Statesaying I want to be in Federal court and -- and gets thereand the State says, I don't want to be in Federal court. I mean, that -- that's what I object to.MS. PARSLEY: Well --QUESTION: You can have all the sovereignimmunity you want. Just -- you know, just decide whether th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC you want it or don't want it. MS. PARSLEY: And all -- all we are reallyasking for, Justice Scalia, is to have the same defensesthat would be available to us if the plaintiff had chosento file the lawsuit in Federal court. We are justemploying a procedural device to bring us into Federalcourt so that we can adjudicate the claims of ouremployees and that, if we have defenses, they can beheard.QUESTION: Well, they could be adjudicated inState court, couldn't they? The Federal issues?MS. PARSLEY: They could be. They -- they couldbe adjudicated in State court.QUESTION: What they don't like here is nointerlocutory appeal I gather.MS. PARSLEY: Yes, that is -- that's true.QUESTION: Well, that's the State's own fault. I mean, the State could have an interlocutory appeal if itchose to do so, couldn't it? MS. PARSLEY: They could, but in the Johnsoncase, of course, this Court stated that the State courtsdo not have to have a parallel system similar to theFederal courts.QUESTION: I take it the State of Texas is notasserting that its courts are less capable of interpreting th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Federal law than Federal courts are? MS. PARSLEY: Not -- not at all, JusticeKennedy. Not at all. And we don't mean any disrespect inthat regard. QUESTION: In fact, you prefer yourinterpretation of Federal law, don't you?(Laughter.) QUESTION: It seems to me everything that you'vesaid leads to the conclusion that this was a non-removablecase from day one and that the State should not have --should not have joined that removal petition.MS. PARSLEY: Actually that -- we do not agreewith that because there's no clear statement in theremoval statute indicating that the State would havewaived its immunity had it removed. Also, there's nosection power on behalf of Congress to actually abrogatethe State's immunity. So --QUESTION: I don't get -- I don't get it all. If the State is immune from suit in the Federal court,then it seems to me it follows it has no authority toremove the case to the Federal court. It can't initiateaction. It can't say, Federal court, hear this case, andthen say, Federal court, you don't have power to hear it. It seems the two go together. If the Federal -- if theState is not amenable to suit in Federal court, the State th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC is not positioned to remove the case to Federal court.MS. PARSLEY: But that would be similar to the-- to the argument they made in Schacht in that you cannotremove a case with barred claims. The removal statutedoes not prohibit the State -- States from removing --QUESTION: Not barred -- the statute oflimitations is a defense. You're saying that the -- theState has not consented to suit. As long as it doesn'tconsent to suit in Federal court, it seems to me it's in anon-removable position in the State court because eitherit's going to consent or it's not going to consent. If itdoesn't consent, it -- it doesn't have any authority toremove.MS. PARSLEY: Well, it may be a finedistinction, but consenting to the removal, we would argueand is argued in the briefs, is not the same thing asconsenting to waive our Eleventh Amendment immunity. Theonly way we could actually waive our Eleventh Amendmentimmunity is if we were vested with that power by thelegislature. And Texas is not, Georgia is not. And underFord Motor Company, that's the appropriate analysis thatthe court would engage in, whether we were --QUESTION: What -- what do you think is at stakenow? On the -- I think that you did -- you did bring upthe question of liability, that there -- that this th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC was not a Federal case to begin with. Is that -- is thatright?MS. PARSLEY: I believe that -- that Georgia,when they moved -- when they answered, they both raisedWill and the Eleventh Amendment in their answer. That iscorrect. QUESTION: So, it seems to me that we arearguing over an academic question because no matter what,this case is going to return to the Georgia State court.MS. PARSLEY: It's not academic on this -- forthis point. This is really a reinvigoration of theimplied waiver doctrine that the Court fully rejected inCollege Savings Bank. This is -- the analogy is parallelto the market participation theory. In the market --market participation theory, the State was held as havingwaived its immunity because it voluntarily engaged in anactivity --QUESTION: Yes, but all those could be veryinteresting questions. The bottom line, no matter how youlook at this case, is it goes back to the State court. So, if -- you -- you had said initially no liability. Right? And that the Federal court should --MS. PARSLEY: Yes, Your Honor.QUESTION: And I had thought that in the recentcase we had said if you have that picture, the Federal th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC court is supposed to deal with the . Wasn't itVermont Agency?MS. PARSLEY: Yes, Vermont Agency. Thestatutory question. QUESTION: Yes, right. MS. PARSLEY: That it could be dealt with first,yes.QUESTION: Right.MS. PARSLEY: That is entirely possible, and thedistrict court -- it would have been well advised to havedone that, but the district court did not choose to dothat. Instead, it ruled on the Eleventh Amendment.QUESTION: But in any -- any way you look atthis, the case ends up in -- in the State court. So, itseems to me that you really are arguing an academicquestion. MS. PARSLEY: Well, to the extent that thepetitioner is challenging the Eleventh Circuit's judgment,they do want to remain in Federal court. And so,therefore, they are actually challenging the judgment andnot just the opinion. So, there is a justiciable questionon appeal.I did want to say quickly that in relation tothe implied waiver doctrine, that a State shouldn't haveto choose between what is an otherwise legal activity, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC which is removal, and the forfeiture of its immunity.QUESTION: Thank you, Ms. Parsley. Mr. Bederman, you have minutes left. REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF DAVID J. BEDERMANON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERMR. BEDERMAN: If I may, Justice Ginsburg, I wasnot entirely as helpful as I could have been in responseto your earlier lines of questioning. If I can be ofassistance to the Court.Professor Lapides, in his complaint, allegeddeclaratory grounds and declaratory relief at -- at pages-- joint appendix pages and . And a review of the district court's first orderat petition appendix a, while admittedly the -- theholding is not entirely crystal clear, in terms ofreserving the claims against individuals in their personalcapacity, although no mention is made of the nature of therelief, the cases cited by the district court maybe areindicative that in the district court's mind was the openquestion of the availability of declaratory relief. QUESTION: Are you talking about paragraph ofthe complaint? MR. BEDERMAN: Yes, sir, I am.QUESTION: Well, that just says, I want ajudicial finding that what Kansas did amounts to th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC defamation. I take it that's a defamation claim underState law. What has that got to do with it?MR. BEDERMAN: Well, I think, of course, allparagraphs in a complaint need to be read together in viewof the earlier allegations, in view of this course ofconduct interfering with Professor Lapides'constitutionally granted due process rights at bothparagraphs and at paragraph of the complaint. I thinkwhen read together, paragraph fairly raises in termsof --QUESTION: Read them together. I just read it. What he says is I want a judicial finding that KansasState action gives rise to a new -- is defamatory, therebygiving rise to a new cause of action every time theinformation is published. Okay? Read it together so itstates a Federal claim. I'm not saying you can't. I justwant to hear it. MR. BEDERMAN: No. I'm not sure on the bareterms of paragraph that the request for declaratoryrelief is particularly tied to a Federal cause of action. All I can point the Court to is both paragraphs and ofthe complaint which frame the Federal question. If I may, in terms of -- of a second point,about the concern for tactical disadvantage that the Statemay be put in, if the Court rules either that removal th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC constitutes waiver, that the Georgia Supreme Court in a decision made clear that denials of qualifiedimmunity defenses are subject to immediate certificationfor appeal by trial court judges. So, I think it'sextravagant to suggest that under Georgia law currentlythat there is no effective mechanism for the review,immediate review, of -- of denials of qualified immunitydefenses. And this is more fully explained at reply briefpage filed by the petitioner. If I may make one last point, and that is by nomeans is petitioner asserting that by virtue of removal,plaintiffs become defendants and defendants becomeplaintiffs. Instead, our submission is simply thatremoval is a forum selection, that when the State engagesin that forum selection, it is waiving, for purposes ofthe case and the authority of the Federal courts toadjudicate, the State's forum immunity under the EleventhAmendment.If there are no other --QUESTION: Well, I don't mean to pursue a redhorse. I just don't want to miss something if it's there. Where in paragraph or does it ask for a declaration?MR. BEDERMAN: It does -- neither paragraph nor specifically refers to declaratory relief. If you-- if you flip to the prayer for relief at pages and th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , of course, most of it is for -- for monetary damages. But, of course, the last prayer is for all relief that thecourt may deem just and proper. CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: Thank you. Thank you,Mr. Bederman.The case is submitted. (Whereupon, at : p.m., the case in theabove-entitled matter was submitted.) th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC 