 IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XPIERCE COUNTY, Petitioner ::v. : No. -IGNACIO GUILLEN, LEGAL :GUARDIAN OF JENNIFER GUILLEN :AND ALMA GUILLEN, MINORS, ET :AL. :- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XWashington, D.C.Monday, November , The above-entitled matter came on for oralargument before the Supreme Court of the United States at: a.m.APPEARANCES:DANIEL R. HAMILTON, ESQ., Deputy Prosecuting Attorney,Tacoma, Washington; on behalf of the Petitioner.PAUL D. CLEMENT, ESQ., Deputy Solicitor General,Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on behalf ofthe United States, as Intervenor.SALVADOR A. MUNGIA, ESQ., Tacoma, Washington; on behalf ofthe Respondents. C O N T E N T SORAL ARGUMENT OF DANIEL R. HAMILTON, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioner ORAL ARGUMENT OFPAUL D. CLEMENT, ESQ.PAGEOn behalf of the United States, as Intervenor ORAL ARGUMENT OFSALVADOR A. MUNGIA, ESQ.On behalf of the Respondents REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OFDANIEL R. HAMILTON, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioner P R O C E E D I N G S(: a.m.)CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: We'll hear argumentnow in Number -, Pierce County v. Ignacio Guillen.Mr. Hamilton.ORAL ARGUMENT OF DANIEL R. HAMILTONON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERMR. HAMILTON: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice, andmay it please the Court:From the enactment of the Highway SafetyAct, a congressional report, specifically number to theth Congress, which is quoted on page of the bluebrief, congressional reports noted that, quote, no otherpart of the State program is as basic to ultimate success,nor as demanding of complete cooperation, end quote, as State collection of accident reports, because they are thebasis for hazard identification and correction.However, soon after the Highway Safety Actmade accident data collection a condition to Federalhazard elimination funds the Secretary of Transportationreported to Congress that States strongly objected,because they feared that their collection of accident datawould be used against them in damage actions. Because ofthis, unintended liability exposure threatened theintegrity and proper operation of a cooperative Federal- State program that has saved thousands of lives --QUESTION: Would you help us figure out how tointerpret this statute?MR. HAMILTON: Yes, Your Honor.QUESTION: It says data, highway safety datacompiled or collected by a State. Now, I suppose that ina crossing like we have here, where there might have beenaccidents from time to time, that there would be policereports or highway officer reports of motor vehicleaccidents at that site, right?MR. HAMILTON: Yes, Your Honor.QUESTION: And those presumably are not eithercompiled or collected for the purpose of getting highwayfunding from the Federal Government. They're compiled, Igather, to serve the normal functions of law enforcement. MR. HAMILTON: Your Honor, no, that's notcompletely correct.QUESTION: No?MR. HAMILTON: They are collected and compiledfor purposes of highway hazard identification --QUESTION: Isn't --MR. HAMILTON: -- from the very beginning.QUESTION: Well, don't you suppose that at leastin some jurisdictions, maybe not Tacoma, but in somejurisdictions you will find just ordinary police reports --MR. HAMILTON: Well, it's my --QUESTION: -- of accidents, and sometime later,perhaps the State might decide, or the county, I'd like tohave some Federal money to make some changes at thatcrossing, and maybe we can use some of the data toassemble it to try to apply for Federal money. Now, howshould we interpret that statute?MR. HAMILTON: Well, in the -- if I understandthe hypothetical, the -- Your Honor is postulating asituation where there is an accident report purely Statein origin. Just to help the Court, I don't know that sucha thing exists after the crash data forms. It's to beunderstood that the Department of Transportation has been,since , working with the States to develop a uniform crash data form, and that -- I think it's becoming moreand more successful as that goes on, so I'm --QUESTION: So your point is that the policeofficers are using a kind of a unified Federal trafficreport --MR. HAMILTON: Essentially --QUESTION: -- when there's an accident?MR. HAMILTON: The forms are not all the same,because each State has the right to choose how to put ittogether, but the elements of the forms are dramatically Federal in their nature, and they're Federal totallydirected toward the issue of highway design. That'swhy -- Nation-wide there was a report cited by theWashington State amici and multi-State amicus, amicibriefs that pointed out that Nation-wide before therewas no standard at all.QUESTION: Well, let me ask you this. At page of the respondent's brief we have four differentinterpretations, possible interpretations of the acts setforth. Do we have to choose among those in order, as apredicate before reaching the constitutional issue, andI'll just -- and this is in line with Justice O'Connor'squestion. If we took the most expansive view of thealternatives that she presents, then the opinion that wewould write, it seems to me, would be different than if we took the more narrow, the most narrow view, and that leadsme to the question, do we have to have a statutoryconstruction at the beginning point of our holding?MR. HAMILTON: I don't believe so, Your Honor,and the county's position, and we believe it's well-founded, is that the constitutional issue is not an excusefor artificially narrowly interpreting --QUESTION: Well, but I think that our Court hasalways preferred, along the lines suggested by JusticeO'Connor and Justice Kennedy, to construe a statute to avoid constitutional problems if we can, and certainly therespondents here at least suggest there are severaldifferent constructions. Are you not prepared to saywhich of those you favor?MR. HAMILTON: Well, I've -- I'm happy -- infact, I had intended to, if given the opportunity, toprovide the Court the way the county believes the statuteshould be interpreted.QUESTION: Well, I'll give you that opportunityright now.MR. HAMILTON: Okay.(Laughter.)QUESTION: Yes, that's our question, and youmight bear in mind if you wish that I think we generallyconstrue evidentiary privileges narrowly.MR. HAMILTON: Yes. However, as the Courtpointed out on that issue of narrow construction that --in the Shapiro case, I believe, which was also a raw datacase whose purpose was to encourage participation, thateven after quoting the standard, the test of a narrowconstruction -- the test was first put to Congress'intent, and that the issue of, you know, that particularrule of construction is not to be used in a way toartificially narrowly interpret what Congress meant, andif Congress meant something, then that's the test. To answer Justice -- Chief Justice Rehnquist'squestion, how does the county say the statute should beinterpreted, pretty much we agree with the logic of theUnited States Solicitor General, but just would suggestthat the, their logic be extended to what we believe isthe logical conclusion. In other words, we disagree withplaintiffs that it only covers generated documents,because under that's interpretation conflicts withwhat this Court has said the plain meaning of compiledmeans, as this Court has discussed in the John Doe casecited to the Court.Also, this reads out of the expressprotection also of data collected, not just generated. Itignores the legislative history of why was amended,and why it used the language compiled --QUESTION: You're telling us what's wrong withthe other reading. Which is your reading?MR. HAMILTON: Our reading, Your Honor, is thatthere should be -- this Court should establish a brightline rule that documents collect -- as the language says,for -- we would ask the Court to enforce the language ofthe statute, which reads, documents and data, quote,compiled or collected for the purpose, end quote, ofspecified highway safety programs, and here's theoperative language, quote, shall not be subject to discovery or admitted into evidence in a Federal or Stateproceeding or considered for any other purposes in anyaction for damages arising from any occurrence at alocation mentioned or addressed in those documents ordata. In other words --QUESTION: It doesn't say documents. I mean,you quoted it, you began the quote after --MR. HAMILTON: Yes --QUESTION: -- after the noun.MR. HAMILTON: Yes. I --QUESTION: The noun you inserted was documents.MR. HAMILTON: Yes. There are specific --QUESTION: It says --MR. HAMILTON: -- references to specific types.QUESTION: It says data, doesn't it? MR. HAMILTON: It says data, and also listsreports, lists -- and that sort of thing, and I was tryingto condense it down, but yes.QUESTION: To be plain, do you mean thateverything that goes to the Public Works Department,everything that eventually gets to the Public WorksDepartment and is relevant to the safety of highwaycrossings is exempt from discovery?MR. HAMILTON: Yes, Your Honor, that is whatwe're saying. QUESTION: Every fact, so that if the Departmentof Environmental Protection has prepared a report sayingthe accidents are wrecking the grass and the flowers at anintersection, and that report is then given to whateverthe data collection agency here is for this purpose, thatall of that data, including the data in the Department ofEnvironmental Protection, is then covered by theprivilege? Is that your position?MR. HAMILTON: To the extent that thatcharacterization goes to the data that's in the reports. It's not to say that -- all we're saying --QUESTION: That's my question.MR. HAMILTON: Yes.QUESTION: The same data is in the environmentalreport. That data is then given to the collection agency. Does the data, even in the hands of the EnvironmentalDepartment, become subject to the privilege at that point,on your reading?MR. HAMILTON: We believe the -- again, if itmeets the test of dealing with an occurrence at a --again, following the language of the statute, anoccurrence at the location mentioned or addressed in suchreports in the damage action, then that report that it'scollected and compiled by --QUESTION: I'm not talking about the report. I'm talking about the fact which is reported.MR. HAMILTON: Yes.QUESTION: The data in the report.MR. HAMILTON: Well --QUESTION: Does that -- does that data --QUESTION: You can answer that yes or no.QUESTION: -- become subject to the privilege?MR. HAMILTON: Yes, if Your Honor means, whenyou say data, going to the report to get the data, to --if you were to -- if that person wanted to raise thatissue were to go to the person who, or the entity thatcreated that information, and were to depose that, thosepeople, they could get the information that way. Allwe're talking about --QUESTION: Then your -- then the answer to my question, I guess, is no, the data does not become, assuch, subject to the privilege. It's only the data asheld by the collection agency. You can still go to theEnvironmental Department, depose them, get yourinformation?MR. HAMILTON: Yes, you can.QUESTION: Okay.MR. HAMILTON: Yes, and I'm sorry Imisunderstood you.QUESTION: Well, could you -- QUESTION: What if you don't have to deposethem?QUESTION: -- go to the Police Department underthis uniform Federal form you were telling us about it?MR. HAMILTON: I'm sorry, I missed the question.QUESTION: You said at the outset that there's auniform document for collisions or crashes or something.MR. HAMILTON: Yes.QUESTION: And the Police Department fills itout. Can you go to the Police Department and get thatinformation?MR. HAMILTON: Under our interpretation, youcould find the officer, you could depose the officer, butyou cannot get the report if it's collected and filed forhazard identification.QUESTION: Well, so then Justice Souter'shypothetical is different from this. You said in JusticeSouter's hypothetical that you could go to that Departmentand get the document, but if you go to the PoliceDepartment you can't get the document.MR. HAMILTON: No --QUESTION: You didn't say he could get thedocument.MR. HAMILTON: No.QUESTION: You said you could depose him -- MR. HAMILTON: Yes.QUESTION: -- and that was what my question wasgoing to be. Are you drawing a distinction betweengetting the document that was generated in theEnvironmental Agency and deposing the person who made thedocument?MR. HAMILTON: Yes, Your Honor. That's adistinction that the cases make --QUESTION: Why? It says data. I don't careabout the cases. I care about the text of the statute. It says data. It's data whether it's in a document orwhether it's in some deponent's head. Data is data.MR. HAMILTON: I think that certainly is a fairinterpretation of the statute. What we're trying to do issynthesize how the courts have looked at this, and they have drawn the distinction saying that really what thepurpose of this was to put plaintiffs back in the positionthey were before. All this mechanism of creating accidentdata existed beforehand. That's what they had to do. They didn't have this silver platter.QUESTION: They could get a police report of anaccident. Isn't that standard routine in negligencecases?MR. HAMILTON: Your Honor, before the Highway Safety Act they could not get an accident, a collection of accident reports, at least in WashingtonState, and it's my understanding Nation-wide, just byasking for them --QUESTION: But you could certainly get apolice -- at least judging from my own practice in Arizonayou could certainly get an individual police report of anaccident.MR. HAMILTON: Yes. If you knew the -- andthat's the point. You essentially have to know whatplaintiffs are trying to find out to get the document,because you couldn't ask for all the accidents at thisintersection. You could ask for a date and peopleinvolved, but you couldn't ask for, give me all theaccidents at a particular intersection.QUESTION: No, but you could ask for the police report of the particular accident that you were concernedwith.MR. HAMILTON: Prior to , yes, Your Honor,that's correct. That's --QUESTION: I'm still slightly mixed up.MR. HAMILTON: Okay.QUESTION: Imagine the forest service in theState collects, because they have tree lovers, a piece ofpaper that says the elm trees at the intersection of such-and-such were diseased, all right. Now, that's done for purposes of tree health, and there's a piece of paper inthe environmental tree section which has that writtenright on it, and one day the Transportation Department forsafety reasons says, send us a Xerox of that, okay.The question I think Justice Souter was askingand Justice Scalia, and I would certainly ask, is, in yourview, when they send a subpoena or discovery to the treedepartment to get that piece of paper, can they get it?MR. HAMILTON: No.QUESTION: No?MR. HAMILTON: No.QUESTION: Very well. Suppose that theTransportation Department one day wrote a witness' namedown, an address which they got from the internal Stategovernment telephone book. In your opinion, could a plaintiff go and ask for a telephone book? The answer, Iguess, is no.MR. HAMILTON: Let me think about that for aminute.QUESTION: Well, I don't see what the differencewould be. They didn't collect the telephone book forpurposes of -- they didn't make the telephone book for thepurposes of accidents, but one day somebody went to thetelephone book and copied some information out of it forthe purpose of accidents -- MR. HAMILTON: I think what they copied --QUESTION: -- and that's why, you see, exactlywhy I find your interpretation of the statute ratherstrained, so what is the answer to what my hypotheticalsuggests?MR. HAMILTON: Well, since my answer would bestrained if I said the photo, the telephone book, what I'mreferring to would be what was written down for thepurposes, and collected for the purposes --QUESTION: But you said that they could not getthe piece of paper --MR. HAMILTON: Yes.QUESTION: -- in the Tree Division --MR. HAMILTON: The --QUESTION: -- and all I'm having trouble is distinguishing between the piece of paper written for treehealth and the address in the telephone book written sopeople can know where people should be phoned.MR. HAMILTON: The piece of paper written fortree help -- and I'm sorry I misunderstood the question. I thought the Court was asking about the telephone book. The telephone book, no. The piece of paper that waswritten down from that, yes, because that's collected andcompiled, and that's really what the SHOTS case said, thatif there's a question about this of whether this was really fairly included for the purposes of , then forthat purpose you have an in camera inspection.QUESTION: But what is there that suggests thatCongress wanted to change the game to that extent? Onecan understand what you've suggested before, wanting tokeep personal injury plaintiffs in the same place theywere before this legislation, but your interpretationtakes away from plaintiffs things that they would have hadaccess to before.MR. HAMILTON: Your Honor, we -- respectfully,we disagree with that characterization of our position.QUESTION: Well, you just, in response to theChief's question, said that at least the police report ofthis accident was routine.MR. HAMILTON: The police report of this accident, when you go and ask for -- and the reason why isbecause -- because of the Highway Safety Act, HighwaySafety Act, the accident reports were indexed by location. You could go and get a specific report if you knew thefacts enough of the accident, but only that accidentreport, not all of them, and that is how --QUESTION: But that's not because of aprivilege, is it?MR. HAMILTON: Yes. It is because of aprivilege. QUESTION: I thought the reason for that is thepolice said, look, we don't have to do your homework foryou. If you know what you want, we'll give it to you. Ifyou don't know what you want, we don't have to search forit. Isn't that the reason?MR. HAMILTON: Yes, because the police don't dothat. The police don't care about highway design factorsother than because the form asks them to.QUESTION: Okay, so in the past, then, and inaccordance with Justice Ginsburg's question, you couldhave asked for the police report, and in Justice Breyer'sexample, I presume you could have gone to the TreeDivision and said, let's have the slip of paper that saysthe elm trees are diseased. Now, you can't do that.MR. HAMILTON: Well, Your Honor, I believe that --QUESTION: And Justice Ginsburg's question is, Ithought it was supposed to leave things, as it were,level, the way they were, that a disadvantage was notbeing created, it was simply, the intent was simply toavoid creating a new advantage which would deter theState. Isn't that the way we should read the statute?MR. HAMILTON: I think the purpose, yes, YourHonor, is to avoid discouraging States from participating,and allowing them to get accident reports from the hands of third parties does discourage States fromparticipating.QUESTION: Would you like to reserve your time?MR. HAMILTON: Yes, I would, Your Honor. Thankyou very much.QUESTION: Mr. Clement.ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAUL D. CLEMENTON BEHALF OF THE UNITED STATES, AS INTERVENORMR. CLEMENT: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice, andmay it please the Court:The amendment to section is, contraryto the determination of the Washington State SupremeCourt, constitutional. The provision protects data thatis compiled and collected for purposes of applying forFederal highway funds from being used in State and Federal court litigation. The documents at issue are inherentlyFederal in character, and so Congress has the power toprohibit the use of those documents in both Federal andState court litigation.QUESTION: Well, what about documents creatednot for the purpose of getting Federal funds, not forsection , but for some other purpose, some of which arelater incorporated in a Federal funding application --MR. CLEMENT: I think those documents --QUESTION: -- by a different agency? MR. CLEMENT: I think those documents, JusticeO'Connor, would be discoverable and admissible if thedocuments were sought from the party that collected themfor a purpose different than the Federal highway fundingpurposes, but what the statute, I think, does prohibit issomebody going to the State Highway Traffic Department andessentially engaging in a one-stop shopping enterprisewhere they can get all sorts of documents that have beencollected --QUESTION: But you differ from petitioner inyour reading of the statute. Yours is much narrower, Itake it.MR. CLEMENT: That's exactly right, JusticeO'Connor, and so as a result of our interpretation of thestatute, the typical police accident report can be obtained from the Police Department and, I think withrespect to Justice Breyer's hypothetical, the report aboutthe tree can be obtained from the State Tree Department orthe State Environmental Department.QUESTION: Let me ask a somewhat differentquestion, although I'm not sure we've resolved the pointthat we've been inquiring about. Would a State have theright to waive this privilege?MR. CLEMENT: I think that's a difficultquestion, Justice Kennedy. I think that as you know, as a general matter evidentiary privileges are waivable, andso -- and that's the proposition this Court hasestablished in cases like Menzonato and Hill, but there isa sense in which this privilege exists, in our view,primarily for the benefit of the Federal Government, sothat we can obtain accurate, complete, and candidassessments of highway traffic safety requirements, andso, there's a suggestion, for example, in the Hilldecision at footnote that, when a third party'sinterests are at stake, that the court may not find waiverunder those circumstances as readily as it wouldotherwise, so our view I think would be that although theCourt need not definitively resolve it in this case,there's a strong argument that the privilege would not bewaivable.QUESTION: Let me just interrupt you, if I may. Are you saying that the lawyer defending the county, ifthe plaintiff called him up and said, I'd like to seethese reports, and the lawyer said, well, they'reprivileged, but I think I'll give them to you because Ithink it's in everybody's interests to know the facts,that would violate the Federal statute?MR. CLEMENT: I think the admissibility of thosematerials --QUESTION: I'm just asking you about showing them to the plaintiff.MR. CLEMENT: I think there's a sense in whichit would violate the Federal statute, but I'm notsuggesting that the Department of Transportation is goingto be able to leap to the defense of the statute in thathypothetical and assert the interests of the statute. Ithink, however, if a State wanted to take a systematicpolicy of disregarding section , I think that wouldimplicate the Federal interests, and I'm not sure that aState would be able to do it.QUESTION: Well, supposing this simply comes upduring a trial. A witness is put on the stand, askedabout the preparation of a report, and the State doesn'tobject, and it would be objectionable under the statute. Now, is that something that could be challenged on appeal, say?MR. CLEMENT: I don't think so, Chief Justice. I think it is something that could be procedurallydefaulted, but I do think if in a case like that the Statewent to the trial judge and said, look, there is thisprovision of Federal law, section , that says thismaterial can't come in, but we're happy to just disregardthat provision, I think the trial court might well bewithin its rights to say that no, we're not going todisregard that provision of Federal law, we're going to keep the material out, but I do think it could be --QUESTION: With these rights, is it a matter ofdiscretion for the trial court? I mean, it would be onething to say it's mandatory, it's a Federal requirement,and now you're suggesting that the lawyer can overlook it,and the court could or must act on its own?MR. CLEMENT: Well, I'm suggesting that thelanguage of the statute is mandatory. It says that itshall not be admitted, so I think if the language isbrought to the attention of the trial court judge, he orshe would be in a position where they ought to exclude theevidence.QUESTION: How would this be enforced by theFederal Government? I understand, and correct me if I'mwrong, that the Federal funding is not tied to the privilege, but is tied to the reporting obligations,so what Federal enforcement would there be for a countythat says, we think it's fair for the plaintiff to haveaccident reports, so we'll give them.What Federal -- how would that mandatoryrequirement that you just stated be enforced by Federalauthorities?MR. CLEMENT: I think under the circumstancesthat you're envisioning, Justice Ginsburg, the FederalGovernment would not provide funds under or or to that particular locality.QUESTION: So you're saying that the privilege is not simply a right of the State agency, butis -- that the funding depends on the State's assertingthat privilege?MR. CLEMENT: It certainly depends on the Statesor the localities abiding by that privilege as a generalmatter. I don't think a State or a locality can take acavalier position of saying, we're just not going to bebound by the provisions of this Federal statute, but yetwe'd still like to take the money under those threestatutes. I don't think that's permissible, and thereason is, is that section , although it may benefitthe State in a particular litigation, does serve animportant Federal interest, and that is the interest in getting complete and candid information to assess and toaward Federal highway funds.By analogy, I would suggest this Court look toits decision in the Buckman Company v. Plaintiff'sCommittee case, because in that case this Court recognizedthat the FDA approval process, and the process forapplying for FDA approval, is inherently Federal incharacter, and so this Court preempted State tort law thatmight distort the effect of applying for FDA approval.In the same way, the process of applying for Federal highway funds and the documents that are used forthat purpose have an inherently Federal character, and sothe Federal Government has an interest in making sure thatthe information provided to the Federal Government isaccurate and complete, and it has an ability, Congress hasthe power to take those essentially Federal documents andprotect them both in State and Federal court litigation.Now, I would suggest that the answer to thewaiver question, unlike the answer to the statutoryconstruction question, is not a necessary component ofthis Court's decision. We think the better view is thatit could be -- is that it could not be waived, at least ingross. Of course, if it could be waived, I think that isan additional answer to any accountability questions thatmay arise, but again, we think the better view is that it can't be waived.QUESTION: Mr. Clement, one of the argumentsmade by respondent Guillen is that -- is a Tenth Amendmentargument. Do you think he has standing to make thatargument?MR. CLEMENT: I think the better view is that hedoesn't have standing to raise that argument, and I'llalso suggest that if they wanted to make a Tenth Amendmentargument, and wanted this Court to decide the difficultquestion of whether or not an individual had standing to raise a Tenth Amendment argument, that they probablyshould have raised the Tenth Amendment argument before theconclusion section of their brief, and I think this Courtwould be well-advised not to definitively decide whetheror not an individual had standing to raise a TenthAmendment issue. I --QUESTION: Why -- what's special about the --this is just an assertion that the Federal Government hasno authority to do what it has done, and you say anindividual who has been harmed by the Federal Government'sexceeding its authority does not have standing tochallenge? It seems to me we do it all the time.MR. CLEMENT: Well, Justice Scalia, I don'tthink all Tenth Amendment challenges are created equal,and I think therein lies the difference. If all the Tenth Amendment challenge is, is a mirrored reflection ofCongress not having the enumerated power to enact astatute --QUESTION: But that's all it --QUESTION: How about a Commerce Clausechallenge?QUESTION: Yes.MR. CLEMENT: Absolutely. In those kind ofcases, the individual does have standing, but this Courton various occasions has suggested that there's an additional component to the Tenth Amendment, that it's notjust a reflection of the enumerated powers of Congress,but, rather, there are certain special areas of Stateprerogatives that the Federal Government can't intrudethrough congressional acts.QUESTION: Well, we allow those challenges allthe time in separation of powers cases.MR. CLEMENT: I think that's right, but JusticeKennedy, I think there's something that certainly seemsdifferent. If the gravamen of the complaint is thatthere's some element of State sovereignty that Congresscannot intrude upon, and the State doesn't object to thatintrusion, it seems odd that the individual would havethird party standing to raise that objection.QUESTION: Why couldn't you say the same thing for the Executive and the legislature in a case likeChadha?MR. CLEMENT: Again, I think you could, and Ithink that's why with respect to a more typical TenthAmendment challenge that's based on an enumerated power,or the lack of an enumerated power, there would bestanding. I think what this Court suggested --QUESTION: I don't -- whenever the Governmentgoes beyond its enumerated power, it is infringing uponthe powers of the States, isn't it? MR. CLEMENT: Well --QUESTION: All the Tenth Amendment says is, youknow, other than the enumerated powers, the other powerscontinue where they used to be, with the States. In otherwords, I don't see anything special about a TenthAmendment claim.QUESTION: In Buckley v. Valeo we held that theAppointment Clause, where the President had signed thelegislation, could be raised by private individuals.MR. CLEMENT: No, I understand that, and thatwas also true in Chadha. I think if there is adifference, and this Court suggested there might be adifference in the TVA case, if there is a difference it'sbecause there are certain Tenth Amendment challenges thathave the nature of just an intrusion on State sovereignty that's particularized. The hypothetical that the caseshave often talked about is moving a State capital, and ifthe State doesn't object to moving the State capital, it'shard to see why an individual ought to be able to raisethat question.I think the more important point, though, forthis case is that there was a suggestion to this effect inthis Court's TVA decision. If this Court wants to revisitthat decision, it probably doesn't want to do it in a casewhere the Tenth Amendment challenge is not properly raised and isn't even raised at all in the briefing before thisCourt until the conclusionary section of the brief.With respect to the enumerated powers questions,which I think are the gravamen of respondent's case andthe Washington Supreme Court's decision, there's noquestion the individual has standing. That was true inthis case, in this Court's decision in United States v.Lopez and would be equally true here.And I think this Court can take comfort inknowing that this is, at bottom, an enumerated powerscase, not a Tenth Amendment case in any specialized sense,because the Washington State Supreme Court found itunobjectionable that section would apply in its pre- amendment version, and what that indicates is thatthere's nothing sacrosanct about State courts' procedures, or State evidentiary rules.QUESTION: Don't you think that our opinion inthe Commerce Clause case, in order to have persuasiveforce, should begin with an interpretation of the statute,recognize that a privilege can be waived or not waived? Ifind it very difficult to see how this opinion can bewritten when we're not sure of the reach of the statute.MR. CLEMENT: I agree with you entirely, JusticeKennedy, that this Court should define the scope of thestatute before deciding whether or not it's constitutional, and we would urge the United States'construction of the statute.I would say that the waiver question is somewhatdifferent. I don't think the constitutionality of thestatute turns on the waiver question. If the Courtdisagrees, we would urge the Court first to find that thisprivilege is not waivable at least in gross and, second,that even if it is waivable, the statute remainsconstitutional.QUESTION: Do we have a final State decisionhere, Mr. Clement?MR. CLEMENT: I think you do have a final Statedecision, and I think that's most clear with respect tothe PDA action -- that's the State Public Disclosure Actthat was brought -- because in that case the Washington Supreme Court held that the four documents weredisclosable and said that attorney's fees would beappropriate. In this --QUESTION: There was a fifth document, though,and they didn't -- there was no appeal on that one, right?MR. CLEMENT: Well, but there was no cross-appeal on that document either, Justice Scalia, so I thinkthat document is no longer part of the case. When theWashington Court of Appeals held that four of the fivedocuments needed to be disclosed, Pierce County took an appeal to the Washington State Supreme Court, but I don'tthink that the Guillens filed a cross-appeal suggestingthat the fifth document ought to be disclosed, and so Ireally think the fifth document is no longer in the case,and since the Washington Supreme Court found thatattorney's fees were appropriate, that means that therewas a final judgment. That's true both at the --QUESTION: Mr. Clement, there was -- you saidthat the PDA suit, the four documents were required to beturned over under that, but I thought the WashingtonSupreme Court said that accident reports from nonofficers,from witnesses, would not be disclosable under the PDA,though they would be subject to discovery under rule(b), so the notion that the PDA suit was the one thatdetermined that these four documents were required to be turned over, I don't understand that, because I thoughtthere was one part at least, the reports from nonofficers,that the county prevailed on before the Washington SupremeCourt, but that it was a Pyrrhic victory because they loston that point under (b).MR. CLEMENT: That's not how I read thedecision, Justice Ginsburg. I thought -- I read thedecision as the four documents were clearly going to bedisclosed as part of the PDA action.QUESTION: Did you read the decision to say that these documents are not disclosable under our Freedom ofInformation Act, nevertheless they can be discovered in acivil litigation?MR. CLEMENT: That's not, with respect, how Iread the opinion. I read the opinion that those fourdocuments are disclosable under the PDA. The onlyobjection to disclosure under the PDA that was raised bythe county was section , and with that issue resolvedagainst the county, I took the import of the decision thatthose documents would be disclosed.At that point, I think it's clearly a finaldecision, because this Court has held in the BecktonDickinson case in the context of section that thefact that attorney's fees need to be resolved on remanddoesn't deprive a decision of finality, and in that decision this Court relied on decisions, and so Iwould think that the same rule would apply in bothcontexts, so I think that the PDA action clearly is final.I think the tort action is a more difficultquestion as to whether that's final. I think this Courtmight have to change its -- to modify its precedents abit, but I think it might be a wise course in light ofwhat Congress has done here. I think this case is quiteanalogous to a case that this case found final calledNational Mercantile Bank v. Langdow, and in that case there was a State venue provision that a Federal statutetrumped, and the State supreme court found that the --this Court found that the State's decision saying thatState law trumped the Federal statute was final, and Ithink the cases are quite parallel.They both involved congressional efforts tomodify State procedure in order to serve a Federalinterest, and in both cases when the State courtdisregarded the Federal interest and either throughconstitutional means or statutory means found the Federalstatute inapplicable, this Court found that there was afinal judgment in the Langdow case, and I think byextension of that decision, they could find a finaljudgment here.I think the main difference between this case and Langdow is that in Langdow this Court took theposition that upon remand there would be no furtherlitigation available in the State court where the lawsuitwas filed.Here, there might be some litigation that wouldgo on in the tort action, for example, but I think theimportant thing is that the Federal interest has beenextinguished, and I think if there's any play in thejoints in this Court's finality decisions, I think thatthis would be a particularly important case to find a final decision, because an act of Congress has been heldunconstitutional.QUESTION: Do we need to find finality withrespect to both?MR. CLEMENT: I don't think so, Your Honor. Ithink that these actions are severable. They wereconsolidated for purposes of appeal before the WashingtonSupreme Court, and I think that --QUESTION: So if I don't want to wrestle withthe complexities of the tort action, what would we do,just dismiss that case as improvidently granted and decidethe other one?MR. CLEMENT: I think that would be fair, orthis Court could just sort of ignore the tort case and saythat it's going to take jurisdiction over the PDA action and decide this Federal statutory issue in the context ofthe State PDA action, and --QUESTION: Well, we can't ignore it. I mean,we've taken the case. We've granted certiorari. We'vegot to do something with it.MR. CLEMENT: Well, I --QUESTION: Just hide it under --QUESTION: There's only one case --MR. CLEMENT: I mean, I think that this Courtcould say that to the extent that the tort action is before it, that that action is not final, and that -- orthey're not going to -- the Court's not going todefinitively resolve that, and that the PDA action isfinal.I would -- this Court in a different contextactually managed to bifurcate a single case and say thatone part of the case was final and the accounting actionthat was subject to remand was not final. That's theW. W. --QUESTION: We wouldn't want to do that toooften, I think.(Laughter.)MR. CLEMENT: No, no, but I think if you can dothat in a single case, I think you can certainly do it ina case like this, where they started as separate actions, were consolidated only for purposes of appeal, and reallyhave separate life.If, for example, this Court hadn't exercisedjurisdiction, what would have happened is that the twocases would have gone back down. The PDA action wouldhave been essentially over, because as the countysuggested, there's nothing left in the PDA action onremand. The tort action would go on, and once the PDAaction went back to the trial court, then it would havebeen appropriate to appeal that on a separate track from the tort action, and there would have been really no pointto making the county go through that exercise, and so Ithink the PDA action is final.If there are no further questions, I think theimportant submission from the Government is that the amendments can be given force in a way that renders themstill quite well within the Congress' power under theCommerce, Spending, and Necessary and Proper Clauses.QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. Clement.Mr. Mungia, we'll hear from you.ORAL ARGUMENT OF SALVADOR A. MUNGIAON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTSMR. MUNGIA: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court:The statute does have to be construed, but regardless of how the statute's construed, it clearly doesnot meet this Court's requirements under South Dakota v.Dole because is not conditional. You read the plainlanguage of , and it's not conditional in nature. It'sa mandate, and if somehow it could be construed as beingconditional, it's certainly ambiguous, as we've seen manyinterpretations and many questions as to the operation of. cannot be justified under the CommerceClause. It does not regulate commercial or economic activity. Instead, it regulates State courts, and that isthe peculiar nature of this dispute, because what is atissue is, is what does a State -- this is completely anintrastate concern.QUESTION: Why is it intrastate? If you simplyhave a -- if you interpret the statute to say, a documentthat is prepared primarily for this -- for getting money,primarily for getting money out of the Federal Governmentcan't be discoverable in a tort action? What part of theConstitution would that violate, if that's how youinterpret it?You'd get all your documents, I guess, and sowould anyone like you, but that seems to be basically whatthe Government's arguing --MR. MUNGIA: Justice --QUESTION: I -- yes.MR. MUNGIA: Justice Breyer, I agree with theSolicitor General's interpretation of the statute, westill get our documents, and I do want to make it clearfor the record, and I think it's clear in the briefs,Pierce County took a different tack on this and had a verywide scope of interpretation. However, despite that fact,there still has to be authority under the Commerce orSpending Clause, and I may not get it in this issue if weget our documents, that's correct, but I'm saying that no matter what, the act has to have authority under somearticle I, section (a) basis.QUESTION: Well, that's certainly right, and soCongress says, we have a Federal interest in trying tominimize accidents, and in order to do that, we want toget information from the States when they want our money,and to be sure the information is accurate, we want to besure that at least the information they give us, they'recollecting with an eye towards being accurate rather thanwith an eye towards protecting themselves from tortlitigation.MR. MUNGIA: Justice --QUESTION: It sounds reasonable to me. What'sunreasonable about that?MR. MUNGIA: Justice Breyer, because the analysis starts, is this commercial or interstate activitythat in fact the Federal Government is regulating, andthey're not, they're regulating State courts. Andagain --QUESTION: But they're regulating in theinterest of a commerce-type thing that's preventingautomobile accidents.MR. MUNGIA: That is the disputable part, as towhether or not there's any evidence in, within -- not onlyin the record, or anywhere that can be found, whether this action, indeed, would prevent any further accidents. Allthe statute does --QUESTION: When Congress makes that judgment,don't we owe it substantial deference? That is, we're notgoing to sit as a committee of Congress to determinewhether there's a link between the condition of theseintersections and vehicles going in and out of States. IfCongress made that judgment, it's not for us to questionit, is it?MR. MUNGIA: Justice Ginsburg, that is thehistoric and that is the correct analysis. This Court hasbeen very deferential to Congress', even if there'ssomething within the information source that could supportthat reasoning, and again I'll go to U.S. v. Lopez andU.S. v. Morrison for that proposition, where in U.S. v. Lopez, there were no congressional findings at least thisCourt alluded to.They do not have to make congressional findings,as long as there's something out there, some information,and the same thing with U.S. v. Morrison. Even whenCongress did make a congressional finding, this Court saidwe're not going to necessarily find that in fact they hada substantial effect on interstate commerce.QUESTION: May I ask you just to back up for amoment to address the question that Mr. Clement did about the separateness of these two? Is there anything in thetort action that you are seeking that's different from thePDA action, or are these essentially two actions seekingthe same material?MR. MUNGIA: Justice Ginsburg, no. They areseeking different materials, and the materials we soughtin the tort action were much broader than what we soughtin the Public Disclosure Act, and the materials -- I dowant to say this as far as that, there is no judgment inthe tort action. I mean, that should be clear. There isno final judgment. This is a discovery order that wastaken up on interlocutory appeal.Now, whether or not there is a final judgment inthe PDA action is a closer question, but I would point outto the Court, page of the Washington State Supreme Court's opinion that you'll find at Appendix A- directsthe lower courts to make their rulings in accord with thecourt's opinion, and did not simply say these documentseither are or are not discoverable, and thus it isdebatable whether or not there is a final judgment even inthe Public Disclosure Act case.QUESTION: But the way you interpreted it,although you say it's debatable, is that everything thatfalls under the PDA, everything that -- those fourdocuments, those are not available to you. That's what Mr. Clement said, I think, that that's what rendered thePDA action final.MR. MUNGIA: Correct, and I read the opiniondifferently, where in fact we do get those documents, andI -- we may have a fight back at the trial court as to thelanguage of the Washington State Supreme Court, because Irealize in its opinion it said that those would normallynot be discoverable under the PDA, but then you have tolook at the purpose of the documents.QUESTION: You set forth four alternativeinterpretations at page of your brief. Do any of thedocuments involved in either of the tort action or the PDAaction comprise just those set forth in your category ,which is reports and data that the State agency actuallyprepares itself?MR. MUNGIA: Justice Kennedy, the documents thatwe sought under the PDA, even under the narrowestconstruction, under the narrowest construction, we get thedocuments, just on a statutory construction under the PDArequest.QUESTION: But some of the documents yourequested fit naturally within your category ?MR. MUNGIA: Correct.QUESTION: All right.MR. MUNGIA: And so at least in this case, this Court need not address the constitutional issues, findingno final judgment in the tort action and, in fact, anarrow construction for the PDA action.QUESTION: I'm sorry, I'm not sure I understood. You say the documents that you requested fell withincategory ?MR. MUNGIA: Of our interpretation, which is avery narrow construction of the statute. That's correct,Justice Stevens.QUESTION: In other words, they were documentsthat were actually prepared to get highway funds?MR. MUNGIA: No, I'm sorry, if I --QUESTION: That's what I understood you to say.MR. MUNGIA: Oh, no, I'm sorry. I'm saying wewould get those documents under our construction. Inother words, they do not fall within the parameters ofthat narrow construction, because these are documents thatin fact were prepared by another agency.QUESTION: So in your view, none of thedocuments that you're -- that are in dispute fall withincategory .MR. MUNGIA: Correct, under the PDA action, thatis correct, not the tort action but the PDA action.QUESTION: Do they fall in category ? Can youtell us? MR. MUNGIA: No. If they don't fall withincategory -- I'm sorry, Justice Kennedy. If they fallwithin category , yes, they would. Under the PDA action,those documents would fall within --QUESTION: Documents the agency has in itspossession?MR. MUNGIA: Correct, they fall within category. And I do want to point out to this Court that, infact, Pierce County's position, and it's shown in therecord, was that we could not even discover the names ofwitnesses or the names of the people involved in theaccidents, and that's surely not part of the Federalhighway funding data, because why is the FederalGovernment concerned with the names of the people involvedin the accidents, and I think this is a concern about putting documents, if you will, in a black hole andallowing certain information which our supreme court hasheld is essential to the proper determination of theseclaims, based upon State and local law.They are essential to those determinations goingin, and now no longer being discoverable. I think that isa very basic concern with this statute, and why at leastone reason it should take a narrow construction, or at thevery widest, the construction put forward by the SolicitorGeneral. QUESTION: But the construction put forward bythe Solicitor General, as I understand it, is you can getit from the agency, like a law enforcement agency, but notfrom the Public Works Department if the purpose is toimplement the Federal program. That's the Government'sposition?MR. MUNGIA: Yes, Justice Ginsburg.QUESTION: But under that position, I suppose,in the day when we have this great data base and allreports are there initially, then under the Government'sapproach, everything would be exempt from discovery. Doyou read their position to say that?MR. MUNGIA: Correct, Justice Ginsburg, I do,and that is the day, if it's not today, that this court --QUESTION: No, I didn't read it that way. Ithought what they were saying was consistent with if it --and maybe it's in this case. I don't think it is, but Imean, if you ever have the great single data base, you'dlook to see whether the document was primarily created forthe one purpose or the other. Where it's primarilycreated for accident reports, you get it. Where it'sprimarily created to get money from the Government, youdon't. I mean, does that work as an interpretation? I'mnot sure we have to reach it, but if we did?MR. MUNGIA: Justice Breyer, as far as interpreting the electronic portion, it probably is areasonable interpretation, and you're right, I mean, it'snot part of this case, but it probably will have to befaced sooner or later.Going back to the scope, again, because we aretalking about the interpretation of this, Pierce Countytook the position they were -- and this is in thecompanion Witmer case, which is the one -- there was acompanion case at the State level, where private highwaysurveys done by, I believe it was the McDonald's and aChevron Company, which the county then took within itspossession, it was unwilling to disclose because under, so again I think the county's position was a verybroad one, that anything that goes in within theirpossession then becomes nondiscoverable and you cannot use it, which I think is a completely unreasonableinterpretation.I do want to take a few minutes and talk aboutthe Spending Clause, because this is not a condition. Ifyou read section , the plain language of , it'smandatory, and surely when Congress has intended to useits Spending Clause powers, I think especially in theFederal highway setting, it's been very clear.QUESTION: I don't see how you can characterizesection as a condition. It's an incentive provided to -- for the State to participate in this Federal fundingprogram. The Federal Government hopes to get informationfrom the State, and thinks that they'll be more apt to getit by providing the protections of section . I don'tsee it as a condition at all.MR. MUNGIA: Justice O'Connor, I agree. I don'tthink it's a condition either. Whether you want to termit as an incentive or something else -- they term it as amandate. I think regardless of how you term it, then itcannot be authorized under the Spending Clause.QUESTION: But --QUESTION: Well, why not? It's a necessary andproper means of ensuring that the Federal money is spentwisely and efficiently. Now, I don't see the big issuethere, frankly.MR. MUNGIA: Under the Spending Clause analysis,this Court has long gone through through Pennhurst,through South Dakota v. Dole, and just recently in Durhamv. Gorham, it's clear that the conditions have to bespelled out.Now, this is clearly some sort of imposition,and if it's not Spending Clause, then they'd have to haveit under the Commerce Clause authority, which goes underanother analysis.QUESTION: You'd have another -- QUESTION: No State has to participate in thisprogram if it doesn't want to. If a State wants to turndown Federal money it can, can it not?MR. MUNGIA: It can turn down Federal money, andthat's the interesting, Mr. Chief Justice, about . Again, just reading the plain language of , it ismandatory, and there's no provision -- even if you cross-reference to , there's nothing which puts anybody onnotice about how this -- how a State can avoid themandates of .QUESTION: Well, it can avoid --QUESTION: But you can agree, nonetheless, thata State can refuse to participate? You say you can't, byreading , tell that it isn't just a legislative commandbased on something other than the Spending Clause, but don't -- you do agree, don't you, that if a State didn'ttake the Federal money, it would not be bound by ?MR. MUNGIA: Mr. Chief Justice, I think that'san open question, and I don't necessarily agree with that.I think you have to read the plain language, and it seemslike Congress is saying you will do this.QUESTION: You think it's just categorical,then?MR. MUNGIA: Correct.QUESTION: But how could that be if -- how could any document be collected for the purpose of participatingin the Federal program if the State doesn't participate inthe Federal program?MR. MUNGIA: Because if you read section ,what it mandates States to do is come up with a list and asurvey of hazardous sites. That's all it says, in (a),that's the mandatory part.So Congress, if it has the authority, can tellthe States, do this list. Now, the question, that begsthe question whether or not Congress has that authority. I think then that's when you have to turn to theCommerce --QUESTION: Do the list whether or not you haveany Federal money, is that what you're saying? This isnot tied to Federal spending. That's what you seem to be saying. That it's independent Federal obligation on theStates whether or not they receive any Federal money. Isthat how you read ?MR. MUNGIA: Justice Ginsburg, that's correct. I think if you read the plain language, , unlike U.S.C. , , , , where it's clear that Congresssays you must control highway billboard signs or you lose percent of your funding, you must control size andweights of vehicles that go on interstate highways or youlose percent of your funding. Those are all clear. In fact, in the Dole case, under U.S.C. ,I think that the title of the act was withdrawal ofFederal funds.QUESTION: Aren't we losing sight of the fact,the rather plain fact that the States and the countieswanted this? They weren't satisfied with the programoriginally because they feared these documents would bediscoverable, and make the county liable. Do you haveanother Spending Clause case where the States and thecounties came to Congress and said, please give us aprivilege, and then say, well, now it's mandatory and it'ssome kind of a club rather than a carrot?MR. MUNGIA: Justice Ginsburg, I have tworesponses. One, I think actually this Court addressedthat same sort of analysis in New York v. U.S., where the Solicitor General argued that because New York officialswanted the benefits of the Low-Level Hazardous Waste Act,therefore it cannot later challenge certain provisions ofthat act, and this Court rejected that argument.QUESTION: But this very provision they wanted,not the thing in general.MR. MUNGIA: And that goes -- then to my secondpart of my response is, and I think it's a fundamentalpart of the constitutional analysis, because here, if theStates wanted this protection they had the means to do it themselves, and this Court has explained, again citingfrom New York v. U.S., State sovereignty isn't for thebenefit of the States, it's for the benefit of thecitizens to derive the benefits of liberty from thedivision of separate powers, so it really, just becauseState officials want it, it's clearly that the people ofthe State of Washington did not want this, because itinfringed upon a State cause of action. In fact, so muchso that the State supreme court was willing to hold it wasunconstitutional.QUESTION: Well, that goes to the waiver point. I assume the State can waive it if its citizens instructit to do so, or maybe not. The Government says no.MR. MUNGIA: I -- Justice Kennedy, you look atthe language, and in fact you look at the early responses by Pierce County, where Pierce County clearly said, wecannot -- I mean, we must -- we don't have that choice. We cannot --QUESTION: The hypothetical is that the Statecould waive it if it wanted to. That's the --MR. MUNGIA: And Justice Kennedy --QUESTION: -- hypothetical question.MR. MUNGIA: Yes, and I -- Justice Kennedy, myresponse is, I don't see how the State could, because Ithink just for the very reasons, as was pointed out by the Solicitor General, where do you cross that line between, Iguess, a single waiver, and then it becoming endemic. Ithink that's the whole problem here.Under the recent cases under the CommerceClause, and again I just want to spend a couple of minuteson the U.S. v. Lopez and Morrison cases, it seems clearthat again this type of activity, what's being regulatedis, in fact, State courts, in fact, the admissibility, thediscovery of evidence, and that is certainly intrastate,and there's no contention here that somehow justice, orthe discovery of documents is somehow commercial innature, and you cannot make that argument, so I thinkthere is no basis under either the Spending or theCommerce Clause to support this legislation.QUESTION: Well, is it irrelevant under your argument that the object of the Federal legislation issafety in an artery of commerce? Is that beside thepoint?MR. MUNGIA: Justice Souter, the object at leastfor the Federal Highway Act is safety. I don't think thesame thing can be said about , because then you'rebecoming -- as this Court said in U.S. v. Lopez, you'rebuilding inference upon inference, because you have to goand say, if these documents are no longer, in fact,discoverable, would it result in safer interstate travel, and there's just too many intermediate steps.QUESTION: So you that think the Federalinterest in this case is comparable to the Federalinterest in Lopez, the ultimate interest?MR. MUNGIA: I think that the -- Justice Souter,the Federal interest in section --QUESTION: No, I'm talking about the ultimateFederal interest that gives rise to all of thisregulation, which is the safety of an artery of commerce. Are you either disputing that that is the object, or areyou saying that that object is on par for constitutionalpurposes with the significance of the Government's objectin Lopez?MR. MUNGIA: Justice Souter, I think it's morethe latter. I'm saying that the Federal Government certainly has an interest in the safe passage ofinterstate --QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. Mungia.Mr. Hamilton, you have minutes remaining.REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF DANIEL R. HAMILTONON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERMR. HAMILTON: Thank you, Your Honor.Very quickly -- minutes, quickly -- I wouldlike to correct I think what was a misstatement byrespondent's counsel, or at least one of them, dealing with what the Court should do if it adopts the UnitedStates' position. Plaintiffs say that if you adopt thatposition, then they get the documents.I'll point out that on page of their ownrespondents' brief they say their -- interpretationnumber , which they say the U.S. reflects, they say onpage , if the Court construes the statute in thisfashion, then a remand would be necessary to determinewhich specific discovery requests would be precluded andwhich would be, still be allowed. They're not entitled,even under their own admission, under the U.S. position,and in fact I would point out on page of our reply,yellow brief, where we point out that in fact, if thatwere the case, even if the U.S. position were adopted,these particular documents would have to be protected. Furthermore, obviously there is some confusionas to where we differ with the United States, and it's avery narrow difference. We both agree that generateddocuments are protected. We both agree that collected andcompiled documents in the hands of Public Works areprotected, and we both agree that in some situationsthey're protected in the hands of third parties.They, though, very narrowly define that insituations where the third party gets it, is a transfereeagency, where you can only get it by indexing, or where it's part of a computer base.I would ask the Court to consider its ownSt. Regis Paper Company case, where it addressed a statutethat only made a protection when it was in the hands ofthird parties or officials, and it contrasted the languageof that statute with other statutes, U.S.C. section ,and -, whose wording is almost identical to . Ifyou would compare those, you would see that the casedistinguished those types of statutes from a statute onlyprotecting in the hands of third parties.So whatever does, it certainly protects morethan just in the hands of third parties, and I would alsolike to point out, the reason why we differ from the U.S.,we believe their logic is correct with protecting in thetransferee hands and in a computer data base and where it's indexed, but if you carry that logic through, webelieve a bright line rule should be established by thisCourt, because obviously the State courts have beenvery -- some State courts, a minority of State courts havebeen very resistant.Other State courts have been trying to do theirbest to comply with the language of the statute, but someStates, of course, have found every opportunity to try tomisinterpret the statute, and it required Congress atleast twice to amend the statute to get back to what they intended.When you look at the situation of why theywanted, the Solicitor General believed that documents inthe hands of the transferee agency are protected, theysaid that the reason for that was that they would notexist but for the planning agency's collection of thatinformation. Well, so, too, accident reports would notexist in their totally different form, they would not beindexed and therefore accessible, and they would not be inthe county's possession but for the Highway Safety Act, soyou extend that logic through, then you come to a brightline rule which we believe the Court should adopt.Thank you, Your Honor.CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: Thank you, Mr.Hamilton. The case is submitted.(Whereupon, at : a.m., the case in theabove-entitled matter was submitted.) 