 IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XJOSEPH SCHEIDLER, ANDREW SCHOLBERG, TIMOTHY MURPHY, AND THE PRO-LIFE ACTION LEAGUE, INC., Petitioners :::::v. : No. -NATIONAL ORGANIZATION FOR WOMEN, INC., ET AL.; and OPERATION RESCUE, Petitioner :::::v. : No. -NATIONAL ORGANIZATION FOR WOMEN, INC., ET AL. ::- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XWashington, D.C.Wednesday, December , The above-entitled matter came on for oralargument before the Supreme Court of the United States at: a.m.APPEARANCES:ROY T. ENGLERT, JR., ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalfof the Petitioners. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC THEODORE B. OLSON, ESQ., Solicitor General, Department ofJustice, Washington, D.C.; on behalf of the UnitedStates, as amicus curiae.FAY CLAYTON, ESQ., Chicago, Illinois; on behalf of theRespondents. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC C O N T E N T SORAL ARGUMENT OF ROY T. ENGLERT, JR., ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioners THEODORE B. OLSON, ESQ.On behalf of the United States, as amicus curiae FAY CLAYTON, ESQ.On behalf of the Respondents REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OFROY T. ENGLERT, JR., ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioners PAGE th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC P R O C E E D I N G S(: a.m.)JUSTICE STEVENS: We'll hear argument in caseNumber -, Scheidler against the NationalOrganization of -- of Women. You may proceed.ORAL ARGUMENT OF ROY T. ENGLERT, JR.ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERSMR. ENGLERT: Thank you, Justice Stevens, andmay it please the Court:This case comes to the Court in a remarkableposture. If you agree with the Hobbs Act arguments in theblue briefs, you should reverse the jury verdicts anddirect entry of judgment for the defendants. But even ifyou believe the arguments in the red and gray briefs, you should still reverse, but for a new trial. And whateveryou do on the Hobbs Act, you should reverse the RICOinjunction because RICO simply does not authorize privateinjunctive relief. Now, why do I say so starkly that evenrespondents and the Government's theories require reversalof the jury verdict? Because the attempts in thosebriefs, to salvage the theory of plaintiffs' case, concedethat someone must obtain the victim's property for theoffense of extortion to be shown. And the whole reason th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC the Court granted cert on the Hobbs Act issue was toreview the Seventh Circuit's holding directly contrary tothose concessions that, quote, a loss to, or interferencewith the rights of the victim is all that is required,closed quote. Likewise, the jury was instructed that allit had to find was that the defendants caused someone,quote, to give up a property right, closed quote.You will find in the red and gray briefs veryelaborate efforts to suggest meanings of obtain andproperty under which the record in this case supposedlycould support a finding that petitioners obtained someabstract form of property from the clinics or women. Butno defense of the Seventh Circuit's holding and the juryinstructions that substituted the phrases, interferencewith and give up for obtaining. So there ought to be no question that some form of reversal is required. Now, the reason why there should be reversal forthe entry of judgment for the defendants, and not just fora new trial, is that respondents and the Government'sbrief-formulated conceptions of obtaining and property arewrong. The essence of the theories is that petitionersobtained control over the use and disposition of clinicassets. To refer to that as obtaining property ofanother -- the language of the Hobbs Act -- is an awfullybroad use of language. It's a far cry from the New York th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC law on which the Hobbs Act was based. QUESTION: I suppose in some instances onecompetitor can buy another competitor's firm and justclose it up in a regular business transaction, and that --that would be obtaining it in that sense. Now, of course,I recognize that title transfers, et cetera, et cetera.Here the result is about the same.MR. ENGLERT: No, Your Honor. Respectfully,it's not. My clients don't have the clinic's propertytoday as they would if they had, in fact, obtained it. They may have temporarily interfered with some use of it.QUESTION: Let's assume that the -- that theboycott or -- or the protests are sufficient to close itdown. They have obtained it in a certain sense in thatthey have obtained -- they have secured for themselves the use that they want of it, i.e., no use.MR. ENGLERT: That is a sense of the wordobtain, but it's not the sense relevant for interpretingthe Hobbs Act for several reasons. One is the Hobbs Acthas historical predecessors that this Court has saidshould be looked to in interpreting its terms.QUESTION: You -- you concede it's a sense ofthe term obtained? I mean, would you really speak ofobtaining somebody's property when you -- when youinterfere with that person's use of it? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. ENGLERT: Well, I certainly don't -- I'msorry, Justice Scalia. I certainly don't concede it's arelevant sense of obtain.Because of -- because of the Hobbs Acthistorical antecedents, because of the rule of lenity,because of the very odd use of language, for all thosereasons, that's not how the Court should interpret obtain.But more important than any of those things isthe implications of such a theory. When Carry Nation wentinto saloons with her axe and destroyed property, shecertainly interfered with the property owner's unfettereduse and control over disposition of his assets, and that'sexactly what she intended to do. Was that extortion?The civil rights boycott of white merchants thatthe Court considered in Claiborne Hardware certainly affected the ability of the boycotted merchants to usetheir property and involved isolated acts of violence aswell. Was that extortion? These aren't hypothetical concerns.QUESTION: Of course, that -- extortion wasn'tcharged in that case, was it? MR. ENGLERT: No, Your Honor, but were the Courtto uphold the theory in the red and gray briefs, whichwouldn't support the judgment, but if the Court were touphold that theory, it certainly could be charged the next th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC time the facts of Claiborne Hardware come along.QUESTION: One must wonder why it wasn'tcharged.MR. ENGLERT: Yes.QUESTION: Because it was a State case itwasn't -- the reason -- reason it wasn't charged. It grewup through the Mississippi court system, if I remembercorrectly, didn't it? MR. ENGLERT: Well, my -- that's correct, ofcourse, Justice Stevens. But my fundamental point is notthat one case was or wasn't charged as -- as extortion. It's if you uphold the theory of the red and gray briefs,it can be charged as extortion in the future. And that'sactually happened to People for the Ethical Treatment ofAnimals. It's happened to other animal rights groups. Because of these implications, the Southern ChristianLeadership Conference joined the amicus brief of theSeamless Garment Network at the cert stage. Disabilityrights groups that conduct protests have joined theSeamless Garment Network brief at the merits stage. Activists of all stripes and their admirers -- Daniel andPhilip Berrigan, Nat Hentoff, Martin Sheen --QUESTION: But are we talking about actions thatconstitute the commission of some kind of criminal offensein the process? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. ENGLERT: Oh, yes. QUESTION: Yes. MR. ENGLERT: Oh, yes. Trespass. QUESTION: Yes, and other things, destruction ofproperty and so forth, I suppose. MR. ENGLERT: Oh, yes, Justice O'Connor.QUESTION: Yes. MR. ENGLERT: There's never been any doubt inthis case --QUESTION: I mean, we're not talking aboutconduct that is lawful here.MR. ENGLERT: We are not talking aboutextortion, but we are talking about some things that couldbe punished much less severely. It has never been disputed in this case, from the opening statement through the closing statement of thetrial or in the earlier phases of the case, that therewere trespasses. There could be in particularcircumstances --QUESTION: -- more than that. In some cases,assaults and so forth.MR. ENGLERT: Well, fair enough except the --the jury verdict really is quite at rejection ofpetitioners' proof in many respects rather than supportingit. But, yes, Justice O'Connor. I really don't want to th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC fight with you on that particular point. But -- but let's --QUESTION: -- I think to paint the picture thatwe're talking about, just pure speech is -- is not thecase.MR. ENGLERT: No, but that's why I used theexamples of Carry Nation and Claiborne Hardware whichweren't pure speech either. There was certainly violencein those cases, but not extortion.QUESTION: Would you say coercion? One of thequestions was, well, coercion -- if that's defined asusing compulsion to force a person to do or not dosomething that she otherwise would do or not do, does thisconduct fit that crime?MR. ENGLERT: Yes.QUESTION: That crime --MR. ENGLERT: And that's a very important pointsupporting our position because Congress at one point hadcoercion as a predicate act in the Anti-Racketeering Actof and, at the request of organized labor, took itout. In the Hobbs Act, in the passage of the Hobbs Act in, again, organized labor lobbied to make sure thatcoercion was not part of the Hobbs Act. Coercion is adifferent crime from extortion, and interfering withsomeone's rights is the crime of coercion under the Model th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Penal Code, under New York law, under various other bodiesof law, but it's not the crime of extortion.QUESTION: Just -- just on the obtain point,which I -- I agree with you is of great relevance here,if -- if a group trespasses on property and -- and remainsthere for a period of days, can it be said that they'reobtaining the use of the property, or is -- is that toomuch of a stretch? MR. ENGLERT: I think it's a stretch, JusticeKennedy, but even if it weren't a stretch, it stillwouldn't be a Hobbs Act violation for a different reason. There must be consent to the obtaining of property or --of another, and simply going in and engaging in adversepossession doesn't necessarily entail consent.QUESTION: Well, suppose you withdraw in order to avoid confrontation. I suppose if A robs B, and Bturns over the wallet, in a sense there's consent, not --not the kind of consent that the law would ever recognize. It's a consent in a -- just from the standpoint thatthere's a voluntary act in handing over the -- the wallet.MR. ENGLERT: Well, that actually --QUESTION: You make your -- you make yourmuscles move and that's about it. MR. ENGLERT: Yes. Words can be stretched tomake lots of things into lots of things that the law th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC doesn't want them to be. And in fact, the common lawdistinction between robbery and extortion, which are bothHobbs Act predicates, is one is with consent and the otheris without. So robbery is a classic example of somethingthat you could stretch the word of consent to cover, butit isn't extortion.QUESTION: I guess it's obtaining property if agroup of people through criminal means tell an owner of abusiness precisely and in detail how he has to run hisbusiness. MR. ENGLERT: Oh, I don't think so, JusticeBreyer.QUESTION: No? In other words, if -- if, say,you have a group of terrible criminals, and they say hereis what -- we're going to kill you unless you do the following, and then they say, today you serve X andtomorrow you serve Y, and you send the money over to Z,and you do all these different things; in other words,they run the business. MR. ENGLERT: If it --QUESTION: Now, why haven't they obtained thatbusiness? MR. ENGLERT: In the hypothetical example youjust gave me, they most certainly have obtained property. You said send the money over to Z. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: Because I said -- say -- I regrettedputting that in the hypothetical the instant I did. (Laughter.) QUESTION: I'm simply looking for an example ofa group of criminals who will tell a property owner, abusinessman, exactly and precisely how to run his businessin a way that he doesn't want to run it. Now, why isn'tthat obtaining the property called the business? I mean,that's what the SG I think is suggesting basically.MR. ENGLERT: And the SG is wrong because that'snot what obtaining property meant under the New York lawin . It -- it's a stretch of words. It's a modernconcept of property.QUESTION: It's like a theft of services. I mean, you go in and you -- there was a -- years ago a person who figured out how to whistle various tones intothe telephone so that it would connect people withoutcharge. All right. Now, hasn't that person stolen theuse of the telephone?MR. ENGLERT: Yes. QUESTION: Yes. And -- and a person who tellsthe telephone company owner, I want you to go and providethe services to A, B, and C, hasn't he stolen thoseservices? MR. ENGLERT: Well, that's getting to be more of th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC a stretch, but probably yes, under United States v. --QUESTION: Then -- then the difference betweenthat and a person who tells the business owner to providehis services to A, B, C, D, and E, whom he doesn't wantto, that doesn't seem a difference. MR. ENGLERT: No. There is a major difference,with respect, Justice Breyer. Saying do provide servicesto A, B, C, D, and E is quite different from saying don'tprovide services to A, B, C --QUESTION: That's what I wondered, and what isthe difference there? MR. ENGLERT: The difference is that A, B, C, D,and E have obtained the services in one case and theyhave -- and no one has obtained any property in the othercase, exactly the words of the Hobbs Act. QUESTION: Except that services is not property,and the one thing that is common in both the negative andthe positive examples is the obtaining of control. It's -- it's -- it seems to me it's -- it's the controlthat's important when he says serve A, B, and C. It isn'tproperty that he has obtained. It's -- it's an action. It's a service. MR. ENGLERT: Justice Souter --QUESTION: And that's true in each case. MR. ENGLERT: -- if I've understood you th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC correctly, that's even more support for our positionbecause the words of the Hobbs Act are obtaining ofproperty from another. So if all of Justice Breyer'sexamples --QUESTION: No, no --MR. ENGLERT: -- property --QUESTION: I -- I agree with you on that point,but I -- I guess I'm saying that if you concede in the onecase, I don't see why you -- you really don't have toconcede in -- in the other case because the one thing thatis common to each is control, and there is no property ina tangible sense that is obtained in -- in the positiveservice examples.MR. ENGLERT: No. With respect, what is commonis not control. It's acquisition. It's obtaining. That's what obtaining means. The Solicitor General's ownbrief on page in footnote says that's what obtainingmeans. And --QUESTION: And what does one obtain? Oneobtains, in each case, control --MR. ENGLERT: But control --QUESTION: -- i.e., direction.MR. ENGLERT: I apologize, Justice Souter, forinterrupting, but control is not property. Property isproperty. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: My point is if you are conceding that Justice Breyer's positive examples would fall within thestatute, I don't see why you don't have to concede thatthe negative example, i.e., don't serve, doesn't alsofall --MR. ENGLERT: The --QUESTION: -- on -- on your own theory.MR. ENGLERT: I don't think so, respectfully,Justice Souter. The distinction I draw is that in thewords of the statute, one involves obtaining property, andthe other doesn't, on the assumption that the services areproperty. If they aren't property, I win the case for adifferent reason.QUESTION: What do you do with the New York caseinvolving a work stoppage? Do you agree with that case, or do you think it's wrong? The one the Solicitor Generalcites in his brief, the -- the old case involvinga stop -- a strike, I guess, is what you'd say. Do youthink that case would -- would be decided the same wayunder your view?MR. ENGLERT: I -- I think so, Justice Stevens,but the case is not immediately coming to mind. I'msorry. I -- I do think the New York courts construedrather strictly the obtaining of property, and theSolicitor General's more expansive cases are from long th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC after .QUESTION: It's People against Barondess,decided in . It was under the -- under the New Yorkstatute, which I think everyone agrees was the model forthe Federal statute.MR. ENGLERT: Yes, Your Honor. QUESTION: It seemed to me there was noobtaining in the very literal sense that you used theterm, but there was merely acquisition of control of theoperation in that. And I'm not quite sure how you comeout on -- on those facts. MR. ENGLERT: Well, Your Honor, I'm -- I'm, as Istand here, blanking on those facts. I -- I believe theNew York courts did construe obtaining of property ratherstrictly in that case and in every other pre- case, but I can't -- I apologize. I can't give you anintelligent discussion of that right at this moment. I'd like to turn to the RICO injunction issue,if I may. It's very straightforward. I plan to addressit only briefly. First, this Court has held in several cases thatsection of the Sherman Act and section of the ClaytonAct, both worded almost identically to section (c) ofRICO, did not authorize private injunctive relief.The dissent in Paine Lumber contended that th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC courts had inherent power to grant injunctions --QUESTION: The language of the acts, though, isa little different than this, isn't it?MR. ENGLERT: Well, very, very slightlydifferent, Justice O'Connor. QUESTION: The analogy may not be perfectbecause the language differs.MR. ENGLERT: Very slightly, but the -- wherethere's a world of difference and not a slight differenceis between section of the Clayton Act and section of RICO. And in section of the Clayton Act, Congressauthorized private injunctive relief. No languageremotely resembling section appears in section ofRICO, but all of the language from the statutes this Courtheld didn't authorize injunctive relief with very tiny variations appears in RICO.Besides the obvious statutory language borrowedfrom the Clayton and Sherman Acts, as this Court hasrecognized throughout its cases, the statutory evolutionof RICO presented Congress with repeated opportunitiesexpressly to provide private parties with injunctiverelief under RICO. Every such proposal failed before andafter the final enactment of RICO.The court below dismissed the reliance onlegislative history on the theory that this Court would th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC not ascribe any significance to legislative inaction. Butironically the very day the Seventh Circuit decided thiscase, this Court was hearing argument in ChickasawNation v. United States, and the opinion of the Court inthat case reiterated the longstanding principle -- withwhich some members of the Court disagreed, but thelongstanding principle in majority opinions -- that courtsordinarily will not assume that Congress intended to enactstatutory language that it has earlier discarded in favorof other language. QUESTION: Would you clarify one thing on the --on the rejected amendment? Was it voted down orwithdrawn? I can't remember. MR. ENGLERT: It was actually passed unanimouslyby the Senate, but then the House didn't take a vote on it.QUESTION: But we don't know why they --MR. ENGLERT: I'm sorry. I -- Justice Stevens,I -- I've misspoken slightly. Excuse me. The -- thepost-RICO effort --QUESTION: Well, no. I'm talking about the onebefore enactment. The post -- the later statute is alittle less persuasive.MR. ENGLERT: The pre-RICO effort was withdrawn. The pre-RICO effort was withdrawn by Representative th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Steiger on the ground that it would complicate matters toomuch to take it up at that stage of the legislation, butit was very important. He'd come -- come back again withit next year. But he recognized that the statute didn'thave private injunctive relief in it in his floorstatements. QUESTION: At the -- on the second round,when -- when the Senate passed and the House didn't,there's no explanation in the House record, is there?MR. ENGLERT: Nothing that sheds tremendouslight on this except for Representative Steiger's --QUESTION: Yes. MR. ENGLERT: -- own statements. QUESTION: It would -- it would be -- I -- thetrouble I'm having is I don't have any trouble seeing the argument your way.The -- the reason I'm -- at this point, I'm notconvinced is that you do have in subsection (c) thelanguage referring -- it says may. What is it? Maysue -- I can't -- yes, may sue therefor. And we've gotthe general presumption that all appropriate remedies gowith a cause of action. And I'm -- I'm wondering if in acase in which it's uncertain what to infer, either fromthe legislative record in -- on intent, or from thetextual record here, whether the presumption not to carry th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC the day in a case of doubt --MR. ENGLERT: It shouldn't because, as ispointed out at pages and of the Operation Rescue replybrief and correctly so, this Court has two lines of cases: one when Congress doesn't specify the remedies. That'scases like Franklin v. Gwinnett County which was animplied right of action case, and like Califano v.Yamasaki.And a different line of cases saying, whenCongress does specify remedies, they're intended to beexclusive. A line of cases that -- that --QUESTION: Well, it -- may I tell you the reasonI wasn't convinced on that is that if -- if Congresswere -- were specifying in the text here choices amongordinary remedies, I think that would be a very strong argument.The reason it seems less strong here is that thechoices that -- or the -- the remedies that Congress hasspecified are extraordinary remedies, e.g., right in thissection. What is specified is treble damages, notdamages. If they had simply said can get damages, I thinkit would be a slam-dunk, but -- but what they did was --was to specify something out of the ordinary, and I'm notsure that that carries the implication that ordinaryremedies, consistent with what it specifies, are -- are th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC meant to be excluded.MR. ENGLERT: Well, Justice Souter, this Courtsaid over and over again that it did carry thatimplication when the exact same language was used in theSherman and Clayton Acts. The Paine Lumber case, theD.R. Wilder Manufacturing case, a whole host of antitrustcases.QUESTION: And I just don't remember this. Does -- does the -- does Clayton use the phrase, suetherefor?MR. ENGLERT: Oh, yes. QUESTION: I have to go back and look. Is thatthe term of art that's in there?MR. ENGLERT: Oh, yes. Oh, yes. The -- thelanguage of Sherman and Clayton is in the appendix to the Scheidler blue brief --QUESTION: Yes. I just -- I just didn't go backand look. That is the phrase?MR. ENGLERT: It is. It is. The terms thatdiffer are quite trivial, and some sections are separatedinto different subsections. That's about all thedifference there is.I'd like to reserve the balance of my time forrebuttal. QUESTION: Mr. Solicitor General. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ORAL ARGUMENT OF THEODORE B. OLSONON BEHALF OF THE UNITED STATES,AS AMICUS CURIAEMR. OLSON: Justice Stevens, and may it pleasethe Court:The right to control a business, whether or notfor profit, is a well-recognized and longstanding interestin property. When that control is surrendered in responseto unlawful force, whether motivated by economics,politics, or ideals, the extortionist has attained hisobjective, and the Hobbs Act has been violated.QUESTION: Well, under that definition, Isuppose that anytime protesters trespass on property,they've obtained the use of that property and there's aHobbs Act violation --MR. OLSON: If --QUESTION: -- Hobbs Act predicate violation?MR. OLSON: If there's an unlawful use of forceor threats or violence, Justice Kennedy, whether it be inthe form of trespassing -- and the aim -- which this Courtrecognized years ago in this -- in this very predecessorcase was to shut down the clinics. If that aim isachieved, the control of the property has been transferredfrom the owner of those clinics to the extortionist.QUESTION: Well, if -- if that's -- if that's a th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC strained reading of obtained, shouldn't we be -- takecounsel of -- that there's a -- serious First Amendmentconsequences -- consequence if we adopt that extensivedefinition? MR. OLSON: As Justice Souter said in -- in thedissent, which you joined, in the earlier case, the FirstAmendment is not an issue in this case, and it can bedealt with in particular circumstances in particular caseswhere it arises. The issue here is if the use of force --QUESTION: Well, the -- there's always a FirstAmendment implication in a protest case. There's -- atthis point there is a First Amendment issue in the casebecause of the broad definition you're proposing, it seemsto me. MR. OLSON: Well, it was the question that was presented that was not accepted by this Court. Question, I think it was, or in the -- the one Scheidlerpetition was not accepted by this Court. QUESTION: Well, but the point -- the pointis -- the point is not whether there's a First Amendmentviolation here. The point is whether the interpretationof the word obtain that the Government is -- is suggestingwe adopt does not threaten to -- to bring us constantlyinto difficult situations where we're going to have to tryto sort out whether that definition doesn't sail too close th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC to the wind with respect to First Amendment rights.MR. OLSON: I submit, Justice Scalia, that thatis not going to be the -- the problem that this Court orany courts are going to have to face. First of all, the definition of property ascontrolling a business has been accepted for a long time. Now, the only question that is --QUESTION: You -- you -- do you agree that yourinterpretation would have been applicable to the civilrights sit-ins?MR. OLSON: Under some circumstances, it couldhave if illegal force or threats were used to prevent abusiness from operating. QUESTION: Do you --MR. OLSON: In many --QUESTION: Do you agree that it would beapplicable to many labor picketing situations --MR. OLSON: Well, they --QUESTION: -- where they obstruct entrance?MR. OLSON: This -- this Court specificallycarved out an exemption in -- in the Enmons case withrespect to legitimate labor objectives --QUESTION: No, but --MR. OLSON: -- and made it --QUESTION: The exception wasn't with regard to th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC labor objection. What -- what is there in the statutethat -- that enables you to make an exception for laborpicketing?MR. OLSON: What -- what this Court --QUESTION: What language of the statute enablesyou to separate labor?MR. OLSON: Well, I -- I can't pull a specificpiece of the language out of the statute, but this Courtsaid nearly times in the Enmons case that the Hobbs Actwas not intended to cover achievement of legitimatecollective bargaining demands, and because the Court didnot want to --QUESTION: It said any legitimate demands --MR. OLSON: No, it --QUESTION: -- elsewhere. It didn't always limit it to just legitimate collective bargaining demands, didit?MR. OLSON: I -- I take that the Court, becauseit said over , nearly times legitimate collectivebargaining demands, legitimate union objectives --QUESTION: Because that's what was involved inthe case. But why would you separate legitimatecollective bargaining demands from other legitimatedemands? What is there possibly in the word obtain thatcould cause you to separate legitimate collective th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC bargaining demands from legitimate demands that you --that you refrain from doing something else?MR. OLSON: I -- I can only submit, JusticeScalia, that it seemed to me a clear implication of thewords used by the Court and the fact that the Courtemphasized that it was -- that we were dealing with -- theCourt was dealing with the extraordinary -- the potentialextraordinary change in Federal labor law, that thatphrase was emphasized over and over again. Neither thisCourt --QUESTION: So -- so you say we simply made alabor law exception to the extortion statute.MR. OLSON: In the -- in the context of thehistory --QUESTION: Just -- just out of nowhere, a labor law exception. MR. OLSON: No, not out of nowhere, JusticeScalia. There was a long history of --QUESTION: You give me no language in thestatute that would justify it.MR. OLSON: What -- what the statute -- what thelanguage of the statute does -- and here's -- here'swhere -- what I would emphasize. The language of thestatute specifically makes it unlawful and makes noexception for -- for whether the -- whether the -- the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC petitioner -- the -- the protester, or the -- or thealleged extortionist is motivated by ideals or politics orwanting to shut down a business or a -- or a boycott ofIsrael or -- this is a classic use of force and extortionin the organized crime setting. The use of force orthreats to take over a labor union or a business --QUESTION: But it says there, to obtain control. To obtain control. MR. OLSON: Yes. QUESTION: Fine. What I don't understand iswhether there isn't a line somewhere between obtainingcontrol in the sense of taking over a business for aperiod of time, shutting down a business, and just tellingthe owner of the business to do one single thing once thatthe blackmailer -- but not the owner -- wants to do. MR. OLSON: Let me --QUESTION: There's a spectrum that falls withinthat word control or the word taking over that if you pushit to an extreme, the Hobbs Act becomes a coercion statutein respect to a business owner. MR. OLSON: It -- the question, it seems to me,was answered in part by this Court in the earlier NOW caseby saying that the extortionist doesn't have to gain afinancial benefit or take possession. Now, the -- the robbery and larceny statutes at th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC common law required the taking and acquiring ofpossession. QUESTION: I take where you're going is that itis a coercion statute in respect to a businesspersoninsofar as you ask the owner of the business to dosomething that he doesn't want to do. MR. OLSON: That's -- that's part of it, yes. And the answer to the question about obtaining --QUESTION: If I think that's too extreme, isthere any stopping place? MR. OLSON: Well, there -- there is a stoppingpoint, is whether at the end of the day, through thethreats or the -- the actions of the extortionist, thatproperty interest that was held by the victim of theextortion has been transferred to the hands of the extortionist in the sense that the aim has beenaccomplished. The aim was to shut down the clinics. Thatwas the attempt, and to the extent that that was or wasattempted to be accomplished, that control --QUESTION: General Olson --QUESTION: Mr. -- yes, Mr. Olson. If -- if weagreed with your view -- and I'm not sure we will -- aboutproperty including the right to control business assets,it does not, I assume, cover some personal right ofsomebody to obtain services in the clinic. And I guess th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC the jury verdict covered both. Could the jury verdict beupheld here even if the Court agreed with your view?MR. OLSON: We -- we have not addressed that,Justice O'Connor. I do --QUESTION: Well, I'm asking you to.MR. OLSON: I do -- I do agree. I think that itwould have to be sent back to the Seventh Circuit for aremand to examine that question. The jury instruction didhave the component to which you refer which we wouldcharacterize as a liberty interest of a right of anindividual. And that was --QUESTION: And we have no idea what the jurywent on. There were three pieces, and one involved thepeople who worked in the clinic. One involved the womenwho were served by the clinic, and the third involved the clinic operation. And that was exactly the question that I wantedto ask you. Is your bottom line a new trial? Because thecharge doesn't match the theory you're putting forward. MR. OLSON: I think that -- I think that at theend of the day, although we haven't briefed it and theGovernment is interested in the definition of extortion,at the end of the day that might have to be the resultbecause the general -- generalized verdict does not make adistinction between that which we contend is property th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC right which was obtained by the extortionist or -- or wasattempted to be obtained --QUESTION: Well, you wouldn't want us to send itback without resolving the extortion issue, would you? MR. OLSON: That's -- no, I --QUESTION: You want us to send it back so itis -- it is -- the jury is given a charge only on theextortion theory that you're -- that you're delivering. Then it comes back up and then we will resolve the issue.MR. OLSON: Well, I -- the question presented,in connection with the Hobbs Act, I think is answered thisway. Where unlawful -- which this Court shouldarticulate, we hope, in its opinion. Where unlawful forceis used to arrest sufficient control of a business to stopthe performance of its services, the Hobbs Act has been violated because control of the business, a property righthas been acquired. I -- I may have minute left to just mentionone thing with respect to the -- the RICO provision.Congress created a private right to damages forRICO violations by intentionally copying language from theantitrust laws that this Court had repeatedly held did notconfer a right to seek injunctive relief. This Court hassaid that Congress was aware of the antitrust history, wascopying it, intended to copy it, and was presumed to know th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC the consequences of what Congress was doing.QUESTION: Of course, at the time the statutewas enacted, a private litigant could get relief,injunctive relief, under the antitrust laws, not underthe -- not under the section of the Sherman Act, orsection of the Clayton Act, but under whatever the othernumber is.MR. OLSON: Section .QUESTION: But the question is really whetherthe first section of the RICO gives us authority. MR. OLSON: Well, may I answer that, JusticeStevens? QUESTION: Sure.MR. OLSON: It seems to me that in the contextof the language that the -- that Congress knew would not create a right, and knowing -- Congress knowing thatsection did specifically create such a right, andknowing that this Court had said that when a right iscreated and remedies specifically provided, the Court --the Court will not expand. The Court will accept whatCongress has done. And Congress did not adopt and in factrejected the opportunities or -- or failed to accept theopportunities to adopt precisely the remedy that wouldhave had that result. QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. Olson. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Ms. Clayton.ORAL ARGUMENT OF FAY CLAYTONON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTSMS. CLAYTON: Justice Stevens, and -- and may itplease the Court:I'd like to begin with the RICO issue, if I may,and then turn to the Hobbs Act questions. The stark contrasts between the antitrust lawand RICO prove the -- prove why private injunctions areavailable. When it comes to damages, we agree that thelanguage is virtually the same, treble damages and soforth. But when you look at the injunction provisions,they are radically different. In the antitrust law, Sherman IV, all theinjunction provisions were put in a single paragraph giving the Government the exclusive duty to enforce. Thatis not -- that was not copied in RICO. In RICO, Congresstook out permanent injunctions, put them in section(a), a separate, unrestricted section. Not only didit give the duty to the Government, it didn't even mentionthe Government. QUESTION: But in the next section, it didmention the Government and said that the Government shallhave the authority to -- to use the injunctive provisionsmentioned in the first section. Right? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MS. CLAYTON: No, Your Honor. QUESTION: And then in the third section, itgives private individuals a right to damages, but does notmention that they have the right to use the first -- firstsection.MS. CLAYTON: Justice Scalia, of course, you arecorrect about section (c). Section (c) does give standingto private parties, and gives them these extraordinary newremedies, treble damages and legal fees, which they couldnever get without a statutory grant. But section (b) does not give the Government theright to use permanent injunctions. It only talks aboutpreliminary relief. It takes that one section ofSherman IV out, and the other part, the permanentinjunctions in Sherman IV, are now, under RICO, put in a wholly different provision, the unrestricted section (a). The natural reading of section (a), which saysall these permanent remedies, including the injunctionthat our trial court granted here, went against futurecriminal activity. Section (a) in an -- unrestrictedlanguage makes that available to the court to restrainviolations of section , the very violations thatsection (c) --QUESTION: Section (a) says what the court maygrant. It doesn't say who has authority to ask the court th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC to do that. And in the -- the provision (b), it empowersthe Government and the Government only to ask forpreliminary injunctive relief. It's a strange thing. Whywould Congress withhold the power to seek a preliminaryinjunction and yet give that party the right to seek apermanent injunction? MS. CLAYTON: That's a question that we havepondered for a long time, and -- and I think the Motorolabrief, which explains -- a very important brief -- whypreliminary injunctions should be available to everybody,makes a good argument for that. But we don't have toaddress that question here. My own thinking is that section (b) gives theGovernment something that it wouldn't have had without thestatutory grant because preliminary injunctions require one -- one element that permanent ones don't, theirreparable harm to the victim. And the Government, suingas sovereign, doesn't have property that's harmed. And ifyou look at the Wollersheim case, they recognize that wasa plausible reason for why section (b) is there.QUESTION: But you're just addressing the secondsentence of section (b). There is a first sentence whichsays, the Attorney General may institute proceedings underthis section.MS. CLAYTON: That's right. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: Now --MS. CLAYTON: That's right.QUESTION: -- that -- that gives the AttorneyGeneral the power to institute proceedings under (a).MS. CLAYTON: Your Honor, it doesn't -- excuseme, Justice Scalia. Section (b) does not say the AttorneyGeneral may institute proceedings under section (a). It says under this section which is section --QUESTION: What else could it mean?QUESTION: What else could it mean?MS. CLAYTON: It means section as a whole,Your Honor, and in section (c) private parties are giventhe right to sue, which is another way of saying the verysame thing. In fact --QUESTION: As I -- sorry.MS. CLAYTON: I was going to say in the AmericanStores case, this Court construed the very same languagein the Clayton Act, sections and . Instituteproceedings, sue for in the other. And the Court saidboth of them mean both the Government and private partiesmay go and get injunctive relief including divestiture. It's just two ways of saying the same thing. TheGovernment is thought to institute proceedings. It'sbringing them as a sovereign. Private parties are suingfor. It's just the traditional language. Certainly those th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC phrases don't bear the weight of the argument thatinstitute proceedings means this party and only this partyhas access to those unrestricted remedies of section(a).QUESTION: And I looked -- I mean, I couldn'tmake too much out of the fact that you take the languagefrom the Clayton Act which says the Attorney General mayinstitute proceedings in equity, and you move it tosection (b) and just change it to say, he may instituteproceedings under this section. That's the onlydifference with the Clayton Act that I could find.So I looked up the history. In the history, itlooks as if there were five different bills floatingaround, and things didn't -- weren't all thatstraightforward. It got a little mixed up. And you havein the House several Congressmen getting up and sayingthey made a mistake in the Senate. They didn't includethis. They should have. And then there were four morebills floating around, and the ones who wanted to includeit said, send it all to the Judiciary Committee, let themwork it out, and they never worked it out. I mean,that's -- that's the thrust of it that I -- that I got outof that. Maybe it was just a mistake. Well, if it was amistake, you're the -- you have another law. You can th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC bring it under the -- you could get an injunction I guessunder the Abortion Act, the Abortion Clinics Act, or -- itseemed to me this one -- they made a mistake. Well, theymade it. MS. CLAYTON: Well, Justice Breyer, even ifsomeone made a mistake, the bill, as it stands, is whatCongress voted on, and what the President signed. It isthat bill that we interpret. And we all agree -- thisCourt has said on many occasions that --QUESTION: I'm with you on that. MS. CLAYTON: I know you are, Justice Scalia. (Laughter.) MS. CLAYTON: Perhaps the only thing. Andyou've often commented on how there are probably as manyreasons for congressional action or inaction as there are Members of Congress. But the fact is the bill makes a very -- it's avery radically different structure from the antitrust law. Private -- I mean, permanent injunctions are unrestricted,and under the traditional jurisprudence, Califano -- whenwe -- we assume all traditional remedies are availableunless -- unless there's the clearest command. There'snot even a hint here. Maybe it was a mistake. It wascertainly not a clear command to do the opposite. And as my -- petitioners have pointed out, the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC only time private injunctions were voted on, they passedunanimously. Why didn't they put it in there? I think itwould have been redundant, and the Court doesn't likesurplusage. If they had said in section (c), and privateparties can get permanent injunctions, then the courtswould have been trying to figure out, well, what did theymean in section (a). That has to mean somethingdifferent. They didn't say again the Government could getpermanent injunctions in section (b). That would havebeen redundant too. But everybody agrees the Governmentcan get permanent injunctions. In any event, this Court's jurisprudence teachesus --QUESTION: Don't you think it's --QUESTION: We don't agree on whether they get itpursuant to section (a) or section (b), though.MS. CLAYTON: The Scheidler brief, the openingbrief, says that section (b) gives the Governmentunrestricted access to the remedies in section (a). That's the way they've put it. I don't read -- if -- ifthat's the case for the Government, the same applies toprivate parties. By parity of reasoning, anyone withstanding -- and it's strict standing for private parties. You've got to be injured in your business or property. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: But -- so you say private partieshave the power to require -- to ask the court to order aperson to divest himself of any interest, direct orindirect? Do you know of any other situation in which aprivate party can -- can cause the -- the divestiture of abusiness? MS. CLAYTON: Justice Scalia, it's notautomatic. The court in its discretion might do it ormight not, but it must --QUESTION: I understand that, but to put thatpower and -- and to request it in the hands of a power --of a private party seems to me extraordinary. MS. CLAYTON: It's been in the hands of privateparties under the antitrust law for more than a halfcentury before RICO was passed, and the courts have had no problem exercising their discretion to my knowledge. In fact, in the American Stores case, this Courtpointed out how the very same remedy sought by theGovernment and sought by private parties, the Governmentmight get it, and the private party might not.Furthermore, any -- any injunctive relief --QUESTION: You can understand it in the contextof the antitrust laws where the divestiture is the onlyway to prevent the -- the monopolization, but to use thatas a punishment for -- for extortion is, it seems to me, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC quite -- quite bizarre.MS. CLAYTON: And then I think the courtwouldn't grant it to the private party, and they certainlywouldn't grant it unless it was designed to remedy theparticular injury that the private party suffered to theirbusiness and property by virtue of a violation. Itwould be very strange, indeed, Your Honor, to remove fromprivate parties who are deputized to be a -- privateattorneys general, supplement the Government resources, totake away this powerful core injunctive remedy and insteadmake them sue for treble --QUESTION: But the divestiture -- you say thedivestiture should never be -- should never be used by thecourts.MS. CLAYTON: No, I don't, Your Honor. I thinkthat the district courts are --QUESTION: It could -- could simply destroy anorganization as the punishment for -- for extortion asyou --MS. CLAYTON: The court would only do that in anextreme case, I am sure. Maybe they would never give itto a private party, but it would be up to the -- but theprivate party may seek it. Section (a) doesn't say theyautomatically get it. QUESTION: Then it's even odder that they th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC don't -- the private party can't seek that preliminaryinjunction even if they can show irreparable injury. Togive the extraordinary power of ordering divestiture andnot giving a party who is irreparably injured theauthority to go into court and say, stop now --temporarily --MS. CLAYTON: I -- I agree, Your Honor, and eventhough that's not an issue that the Court has to resolvein this case, I think the Motorola brief makes anexcellent case for why -- since this is a very specialremedy, it's not an exclusive list. Congress didn't meanto deprive private parties or anyone else of any of thetraditional remedies. The Califano rule is clear. Unlessthere's a clear command to deny it, it's available. Idon't think section (b) -- remember, it doesn't even have that duty language. One other point I'd like to make is when theantitrust laws were written, there was no merger of law inequity. To go in -- when someone had a right to getdamages, they had to go into the law court which couldonly give money damages. It couldn't give injunctions. That had changed by the time RICO passed. And Congressknew that. Congress knew the Federal courts had theability to design any appropriate remedy to fix the wrong,barring the clearest command. There's no clearest th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC command.QUESTION: Well, you do agree, though, I guessthat were efforts to include language authorizing theobtaining of injunctions by private petitioners, and thatwas not adopted by Congress. MS. CLAYTON: But they were passed unanimously. They didn't get in I believe because it would have beensurplusage. It would have been redundant, and we don'tlike that in statutes.QUESTION: Well, we don't know. MS. CLAYTON: We don't know, Your Honor, and wecan -- and as the Court has said in Central Bank and SolidWaste, one never -- it's a thin reed to rest aninterpretation on what Congress might have had --QUESTION: And they have a long, long discussion of the battle, and everybody says, without any opposition,that this isn't there. You would have thought if it wassurplusage, somebody would have gotten up and said, well,it is. MS. CLAYTON: Well, I think that's whatRepresentative Steiger said. The -- in fact, we quotedhim. It's ambiguous.QUESTION: I don't know. MS. CLAYTON: But it's certainly not the clearcommand to the contrary. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: Well, you have two -- two difficultand major arguments here.MS. CLAYTON: I'd like to turn to it. Thankyou, Justice Kennedy. QUESTION: I -- I would like to hear yourcomments on obtaining property.MS. CLAYTON: I would like to turn to those.I think we all agree that property includes bothtangible things and intangible things. Of course, in thisinformation age, some of our most important property isintangible. So the question, of course, is how does oneobtain it. One obtains it by obtaining control over it ordominion over it, as this Court explained in the Carpenterand Green case. Remember in Carpenter -- now, this is a mail fraud case that had the same phrase, obtain property. Mr. Winans, the Wall Street Journal reporter, the On theStreet column, was held to have wrongfully obtainedproperty. Now, he had already received the information. QUESTION: Do you think that it includes libertyinterest deprivation? MS. CLAYTON: No. No, Your Honor, I don't. Wedo not believe -- but sometimes they --QUESTION: Then what happens to a generalizedverdict no matter how you define this -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MS. CLAYTON: Your Honor, the verdict here isbased only on property. If you look at the Hobbs Actinstruction, it required that the respondents be made topart with property, not part with liberty interests. If anewspaper publishes an editorial, it has a libertyinterest, a First Amendment right, to do it, but it alsohas a property right.QUESTION: Yes, but it defined property. Itsays you can find a violation, other things -- all theother -- all the other requirements being met. You haveto say that the doctors, nurses, or other staff or clinicsthemselves give up a property right. The term propertyright means anything of value --MS. CLAYTON: Right. QUESTION: -- including a woman's right to seek services from the clinic, the right of doctors or nursesto perform their jobs, the right of the clinic to providemedical services free from wrongful threats. MS. CLAYTON: Right. QUESTION: Now, your brief I think, more orless, seemed to concede that -- that at least two out ofthose three parts were certainly wrong.MS. CLAYTON: Oh, no. QUESTION: You don't. I mean, then -- then dowe have to decide -- is this -- is -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MS. CLAYTON: No, no. No, Your Honor. What webelieve is that to find property in any one of thoseaspects of property -- there are three aspects ofproperty: the clinic's right to control its equipment andbuildings and so forth, the women's right to spend theirmoney, and the contract among -- between the two parties. Extortion of any one of them proximately injures all ofthem because it's two sides of the same coin. If theclinic is forcibly -- through threats of violence, theclinic is forcibly closed, now the women who haveappointments, which are contracts, bilateral contracts,they can't get in. It's a -- it's two sides of the samecoin. So to extort the property of the clinic is toproximately injure the women in her business or property,which is -- the standing comes under RICO. This issomething that petitioners have never even challenged atthe trial court --QUESTION: All right. So -- so in other words,this instruction is correct that it's -- it's --MS. CLAYTON: It is, Your Honor. QUESTION: So a -- a woman's right to seekservices is property which, if they say, I don't want you,the clinic, to serve the woman so the woman can't get theservices, that is obtaining property?MS. CLAYTON: It is under these circumstances th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC where she has an actual agreement with the -- the clinic. She's not just going shopping. Each woman who went tothese clinics had an actual appointment for a particularservice at a particular time. When I have an appointmentwith my doctor for a biopsy, I have a property right inseeing my doctor at that time.QUESTION: What have you obtained control of? What have you obtained control of?MS. CLAYTON: Just as in the Carpenter case,you've obtained control of the right to do business andthe intangible rights that come out of business, theexclusive rights.QUESTION: Obtaining control means -- meansnothing at all if -- if whenever you deprive somebodyof -- of a right, you say you obtain control of the right that -- that you've deprived them of. I mean, everythingbecomes an obtaining of property.MS. CLAYTON: When one uses a demand to make onecede their control over property -- this is my pen. Thisis my property. It has ink and plastic. But I also havea right to use it for writing. And if someone puts a gunto my head and says, if you use that pen, I'll shoot you,they have taken my property. They've taken my control.QUESTION: If I -- if I say to you, don't --don't use that pen, or I'll do something unlawful and you th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC don't use the pen, I have obtained the pen.MS. CLAYTON: You have obtained control.QUESTION: In -- in ordinary parlance, I haveobtained the pen. MS. CLAYTON: Your Honor, in the Florida Prepaidcase, in the Craft case, in the Drye case, this Court madecrystal clear the essence of intangible -- and, for thatmatter, tangible property is the rights that come out ofit, especially the right of control. The right to controlmy pen, the right of the clinics to control their --QUESTION: Or what about the right to perform ajob? Let's think of a labor strike. MS. CLAYTON: Absolutely. QUESTION: And -- and think of the strike, mygoodness, where people can't get into the factory. And --and somebody comes out and says, you've -- you'veinterfered under the Hobbs Act and have obtained property;namely, my right to perform my job is interfered with.The person at the soda fountain -- you've heardthe litany. MS. CLAYTON: Right. QUESTION: There are the soda fountain -- thesit-ins. The soda jerk who wouldn't serve the blackcustomers. Well, this -- this is interfering with myright to perform my job. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC I mean, this seems -- you have another statutethat you can sue under. But a lot of -- a lot of peoplewho don't like these various demonstrations don't, andthey'll all be in under the Hobbs Act and -- and RICO andso forth. I'm rather concerned about this problem. I'dlike you to address it. MS. CLAYTON: I'd like to address those,Justice Breyer. Let's start with the soda joke -- jerkexample.Martin Luther King didn't tell his followers togo into the Woolworth's and bash the people around andforcibly prevent the white people from getting service. QUESTION: No, but just obstructing -- justobstructing -- you've used the term violence severaltimes. That's not what the instruction required. MS. CLAYTON: It --QUESTION: As -- as your argument to the juryitself indicated, it was enough if they obstructed theentrance and failed to part like the Red Sea --MS. CLAYTON: Not true.QUESTION: -- if somebody wanted to go in.MS. CLAYTON: Justice Scalia, that is notcorrect. We -- the instruction required that therespondents be made to give up property. We -- and -- andquestion ensured that a mere blockade or sit-in -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC question on the jury form asked the jury if any of thepredicate acts they found was based on a mere blockade andsit-in. The jury said no. I told the jury don't includein your predicate acts -- I told them -- anything that wasbased on mere speech, or mere presence, or the message. It had to be something that involved force or violence,the wrongful use of fear --QUESTION: I -- I am reading the closingargument on behalf of the clinic plaintiffs at the trial,and it says, in every issue we've shown you the propertyrights of the clinics and the women were extorted underRICO. Even a few hours of deprivation of legal rightswill satisfy the RICO act of extortion.There is one way, I guess, in which you don'thave the element of force in a blockade, and that would be if the blockaders did something that they werespecifically instructed that they should never do, thatis, politely move aside, part like the Red Sea, and let awoman through. But you know that never happened. No witnessever testified to that. No witness -- not defense, notplaintiff -- ever said that any of the blockaders wereinstructed to let women through. In other words, you told the jury that you couldfind an offense here under the Hobbs Act by the mere th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC blockade. It wasn't smacking people around. It was justnot letting people in.MS. CLAYTON: No, Your Honor. If the jury hadfound a mere -- first of all, that was argument. The juryfollows instructions not argument, as the Weeks case fromthis Court has held. But the evidence supported --QUESTION: So you're -- you're changing yourposition here. MS. CLAYTON: No, Your Honor. QUESTION: I see. MS. CLAYTON: When we made -- we made thatargument, but we also told the jury that if they werebasing any predicate acts on the mere presence and a mereblockade, mere sit-in, they had to put yes to question . They put no because we showed them that they had to find that any predicate act needed an element of force orviolence. And that's what PLAN did. It used these --QUESTION: Well -- well, but still -- still itseems to me that your -- your theory doesn't depend onviolence. Your theory is that you're obtaining -- or thatthe defendants here were obtaining property because theyprohibited its use. That's your theory. MS. CLAYTON: Yes, Your Honor, by -- by wrongfulmeans. That's correct. QUESTION: And -- and so -- so long as the means th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC were wrongful, the obtaining definitional problem stillremains, and I think you should address that.MS. CLAYTON: I'd like -- yes, I'd like to goback to the Carpenter case. Mr. Winans had theinformation, but then he wrongfully obtained it. How didhe wrongfully obtain it? When he exercised dominion orcontrol over it. This Court said he -- he wrongfullyobtained it when he deprived -- that was this Court'sword -- deprived the Journal of its right to control thatproperty.In the Green case, the same way. The --QUESTION: How about Carry Nation? I -- youwould concede, I take it, based on your argument that ifRICO had been around then and the Hobbs Act, that shewould have been in violation.MS. CLAYTON: I would, Your Honor, if she hadbeen doing it to get consent, to get the business tochange its ways, which I guess she was. Yes, that's notthe lawful way. If my client, the National Organizationfor Women, organized people to go to Augusta Golf Courseand tear up the greens until they let women members, thatwould be extortion.QUESTION: But it is -- it is strange to thinkof Carry Nation, that notorious extortionist. I mean, youknow, that's just not the crime involved. There -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC there's a crime there, but is it extortion?MS. CLAYTON: Your Honor, the Hobbs Act doesn'tgive exemptions for motives, as this Court has repeatedlyheld. There's no more a motive requirement there thanthere is under RICO. QUESTION: What's the difference between --QUESTION: Ms. Clayton, may I ask you onequestion? I just -- I -- I want to be sure I heard youcorrectly. There's a definition of property in theinstructions, a three-part definition, at page . Didyou tell us that that instruction was not objected to?MS. CLAYTON: Oh, no, I don't believe I saidthat.QUESTION: I just misunderstood you.MS. CLAYTON: The -- the petitioners had offered a definition of -- of extortion that was part withproperty, and they didn't define it. So at the trial --at the pretrial stage, that was all they offered. Theydidn't object then. During the course of trial, they made numerousobjections. I can't say they never objected. They didn'ttimely object. And their original view of what extortion meantwas part with property, which is the same I think as giveup property. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: What is the difference betweencoercion and extortion?MS. CLAYTON: The difference is whether propertyis being attacked. When you coerce somebody to give uptheir First Amendment right, that might be coercion, butsince it's not focused on property, it's not extortion.QUESTION: What would you coerce them to do thatis not the giving up of property? Give me an example.MS. CLAYTON: To stop speaking. You don't haveproperty in your speech. Liberty interests are not thesubject of extortion, but -- but property interests are. Every extortion is a coercion.QUESTION: Shouldn't we draw the line this way? Instead of speaking as, for example, the Solicitor Generaldid and some of the cases do about obtaining control, isn't the way to -- to adhere to the line between theliberty and property distinction to say that you extort ifyou gain control in a way which prevents them from doingbusiness, i.e., engaging in a property exercise, but youdo not extort if you gain control simply in the way theydo business, i.e., their choice of whom to serve?If we draw that distinction, then the oldsit-ins in the lunch counter weren't there to stop themfrom doing business. They wanted them to do business. They wanted them to do business with them. Whereas, the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC case which I think you have is a case that could be arguedthat the point of it was to stop the business, period, andthat gets into property and crosses the line from libertyto property. Would you accept that distinction?MS. CLAYTON: Not quite, Justice Souter. I certainly agree that the -- that the sit-in protesterswere not extorting anybody because they were trying tochange people's mind by persuasion, not by intimidation.But I believe if you look at the old --QUESTION: Well, they wanted a -- I mean, butthey -- the --MS. CLAYTON: They --QUESTION: -- their immediate object was to getthe sandwich or the Coke. So that was easy. MS. CLAYTON: But -- okay, that -- that may be right.But when we look at the old organized crime, theclassic organized crime extortion cases that the Hobbs Actwas based on, we see organized crime going in saying, letthese people run your pension fund. Don't do businesswith these people. Fire these people. Hire those. Anyattempt to control a lawful business decision I believe isextortion, whether it's positive or negative.QUESTION: Well, maybe -- maybe it is, but I --I think -- among other things, I think we are, and should th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC be more concerned about the First Amendment issues whicharise when you cross the line into liberty than the --than the cases were years ago and --MS. CLAYTON: But the proper -- excuse me,Justice Souter. The best way to address the FirstAmendment issue is to apply the standards of ClaiborneHardware to any extortion at conduct, as was done here. Make sure that the petitioners had to have specific intentthat the crime be done. Make sure it was done knowingly,willingly, wrongfully, not just accidentally. Make surethe enterprise authorized or ratified it. Those were theinstructions given here. There was -- nothing could be apredicate act unless all those tests were met. And then on top of that, they had to usedemands, wrongful demands, to control lawful business decisions. And I do believe that decisions either to dosomething or not to do something, as long as the businessowner -- say the company makes round widgets and squarewidgets. And the -- the extortionist says, we don't likeround widgets. We want you to only make the other kind. Or maybe they don't make round and they want them to startdoing it. That's as much a control of their businessdecisions as all those classic organized crimes that werethe basis of the Hobbs Act. And it's just as offensivehere. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Your Honor, we ask the clock not to turn backthe -- ask the Court not to turn back the clock on years of Hobbs Act jurisprudence which protectedbusinesses and their customers in making their lawfulbusiness decisions. We ask the Court to decline to add anylimitations like tangible or personal to -- to the HobbsAct. By the way, even if you did, the State law --QUESTION: You want to retain the labor unionexception, however, I assume. MS. CLAYTON: And of course. Enmons -- and it'ssection (c), Your Honor. It's section (c) of thatsays nothing in this law will affect -- and then they listall the labor laws. That's why there's a union exception. Plus the -- the New York and all the other States had not only a statutory labor exception, but common law. And please don't --QUESTION: Thank you, Mrs. -- Ms. Clayton.MS. CLAYTON: Thank you. Thank you, YourHonors.QUESTION: Mr. Englert, you have minutes left.REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF ROY T. ENGLERT, JR.ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERSMR. ENGLERT: Thank you, Justice Stevens.The defendants in this case objected strenuously th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC to reading the word obtain out of the Hobbs Act. They didnot say that giving up property is enough. If you readthe opinion wrongly denying the (b)() motion,that's all over the place. If you look at pages to of the transcript at the jury colloquy, the pointthat there needs to be obtaining was made quitestrenuously.QUESTION: Was -- was this particularinstruction, the one that I read from in , theinstruction that had the three parts to it -- was thatobjected to? MR. ENGLERT: Yes, at the -- at the pages Iindicated. People v. Barondess. The work stoppage led toobtaining $. Of course, it was extortion. That's theproperty in that case. That's -- it's cited in footnote of our opening -- of the Scheidler opening brief.United States v. Cleveland Indians BaseballCompany. This Court reminded us members of the bar thatthe tendency to assume that a word used in two differentlegal rules always has the same meaning, has all thetenacity of original sin, and must constantly be guardedagainst. To think that property's definition in tax casesand in Fifth Amendment takings cases is necessarily thedefinition of the Hobbs Act is simply wrong. The Hobbs th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Act draws its definition of property from the common lawand the New York law, not from takings cases and taxcases.The First Amendment is in this case. Yes, theCourt did not take the First Amendment question, but theprinciple of constitutional avoidance always governs theconstruction of statutes. And Ms. Clayton concedes thatclassic protest activities that are venerated in Americanhistory in retrospect would be covered as extortion by herdefinition. That should give the Court pause.Claiborne --QUESTION: They wouldn't -- they wouldn't be ifyou observed the distinction I was throwing out. MR. ENGLERT: The -- the answer to thatdistinction, if I may, Justice Souter, is Claiborne Hardware and Carry Nation -- those fact patterns certainlywould be covered even under the distinction you suggest. There were acts of violence in in ClaiborneHardware. QUESTION: Yes, Carry Nation would be covered. There's no question. The -- the lunch counter sit-inswould not, as I understand it.MR. ENGLERT: Well, actually I -- I don't thinkthat's historically accurate. I think there was an effortto stop the lunch counters from serving other people in th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC addition to getting them to -- to serve black people. Butit doesn't matter. QUESTION: Well, the --MR. ENGLERT: It -- it -- there are -- there areexamples that this Court should be concerned, Irespectfully submit, about calling extortion underMs. Clayton's definition, and that would include the factsin Claiborne Hardware. That would include the CarryNation example. The Seamless Garment Network brief goesinto many other examples. QUESTION: If the conduct in Claiborne Hardwarewas pretty rough. Maybe it should have been included. QUESTION: You're not going to get -- you're notgoing to get my --MR. ENGLERT: Your Honor, the -- the opinion of the Court in that case refers to it has having elements ofmajesty as well as elements of violence. And the Courtreally should be concerned about whether the classichistorical pattern -- and please look at the SeamlessGarment Network brief -- the classic historical pattern ofvenerable leaders whose followers get out of hand isreally what is meant by Hobbs Act extortion and RICO.QUESTION: No majesty with Carry Nation. Imean, you don't get my sympathy by saying you -- you mighthave interfered with Carry Nation on -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. ENGLERT: Well, I --QUESTION: He didn't say might have. You saidthat you would.MR. ENGLERT: There's another more legalisticreason. Nation.QUESTION: I think both sides agree on CarryMR. ENGLERT: If -- if I may, there's anothermore legalistic reason why Ms. Clayton's and the SolicitorGeneral's position has to be wrong, and Justice Breyer andothers have laid their finger on it, Justice Ginsburg aswell. What they're talking about is the classicexample of coercion, not extortion, and for those who likelegislative history, the fact that organized labor got coercion out of the statute should give you pause. Forthose who don't like legislative history, the fact thatthere's a list of predicate acts and coercion isn't one ofthem should give you pause. I think almost everyone agrees that there has tobe at the very least a remand in this case, andMs. Clayton hasn't quite conceded it. But if this Court'sdecision in Griffin v. United States, a criminal case, isapplicable in civil cases or if this Court's decisions inYates v. United States, Maryland v. Baldwin, Sunkist th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Growers are applicable, then this jury verdict, whichalmost indisputably rests, at least in part, onindefensible notions of property, has to be reversed.QUESTION: Can I ask you one question aboutthat? Did the individuals get damages here, or was itjust the clinics? MR. ENGLERT: Only the clinics for extraordinarysecurity costs.QUESTION: Okay.MR. ENGLERT: Violence. Let's talk aboutviolence for a moment. Please look at -- at specialinterrogatory (e). The jury was asked to find how manyacts or threats of violence to persons or property werethere. The jury said four. Ms. Clayton argued in herclosing argument, and the jury said . So actually thejury rejected -- we know to a certainty the jury rejectedmost of NOW's evidence, and there weren't even anyallegations that Mr. Scheidler, Mr. Scholberg, orMr. Murphy actually engaged in violence. There wereallegations they were connected to violence, not that theyengaged in violence. And I should say my clients areproponents of nonviolence. Mr. Terry was not alleged toengage in acts of violence either, I should add. RICO. Section of the Sherman Act is repeatedalmost verbatim in (a) and (b). Section of the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Sherman Act is repeated almost verbatim in (c). Section of the Clayton Act is repeated almost verbatimin (c). Section of the Clayton Act is repeatedalmost verbatim in (a) and (b). Section of theClayton Act, the statute that authorizes injunctions,nowhere in .And as -- as -- thank you. JUSTICE STEVENS: Thank you, Mr. Englert.(Whereupon, at : a.m., the case in theabove-entitled matter was submitted.) th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC 