 IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - XWANDA ADAMS, et al., Petitioners, ::v. : No. -FLORIDA POWER CORPORATION and :FLORIDA PROGRESS CORPORATION. :- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - XWashington, D.C.Wednesday, March , The above-entitled matter came on for oralargument before the Supreme Court of the United States at: a.m.APPEARANCES:JOHN J. CRABTREE, ESQ., Key Biscayne, Florida; onbehalf of the Petitioners.GLEN D. NAGER, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf ofthe Respondents. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC C O N T E N T SORAL ARGUMENT OF JOHN G. CRABTREE, ESQ. On behalf of the Petitioners ORAL ARGUMENT OFGLEN D. NAGER, ESQ.On behalf of the Respondents REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OFJOHN G. CRABTREE, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioners PAGE th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC P R O C E E D I N G S (: a.m.)CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: We'll hear argumentnow on number -, Wanda Adams vs. Florida PowerCorporation and Florida Progress Corporation. Mr. Crabtree.ORAL ARGUMENT OF JOHN G. CRABTREEON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERSMR. CRABTREE: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court: There are three core reasons why theCourt should hold that disparate impact is an availablemethod of proof in age discrimination cases. First, theCourt held in Griggs that identical prohibitory languageprohibited facially neutral actions by an employer todisproportionately impacted the protected class. QUESTION: Mr. Crabtree, we are not talkingabout a situation where you are claiming that the fact ofdisparate impact gives rise to a permissible inference ofintentional discrimination. You are relying just ondisparate impact alone, are you not? MR. CRABTREE: No, Your Honor. We believe thatdisparate impact both serves the purpose of provingindirectly that perhaps subconscious biases exist, as wellas detecting biases that could otherwise be concealed. QUESTION: Well, now in Washington against th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Davis, we held that disparate impact was not enough byitself under the statute or Constitution that you couldinfer from it an intent to discriminate. Now, are you, Ididn't get the impression from the court of appealsopinion that you are arguing that this plan by theRespondent supports an inference of an intent todiscriminate on the basis of age. MR. CRABTREE: We believe it does support aninference of an intent, an intent that does not need to beproven, that it justifies that it can justify thenecessity for the doctrine because without it, it would beeasy for an employer to conceal its intent for example, anemployer could choose a device like a five-year rule inwhich they said that we won't hire anybody with more thanfive years' experience or we'll have speed tests. QUESTION: That's a very handy prophylacticrule, but with it, once you, once you acknowledge thatindeed the malicious intent is necessary with it, with therule that you propose, you are going to get a lot ofemployers that have no such malicious intent. MR. CRABTREE: Justice Scalia, we are notsuggesting that malicious intent is required at all fordisparate impact. We are suggesting that disparate impactwill detect that as well, or at least the provision --QUESTION: You just say it is bad in itself. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC It is not bad because it shows malicious intent. MR. CRABTREE: That's certainly true. Weabsolutely believe that. QUESTION: Because if the only reason it's badis because it shows malicious intent, my goodness, itseems to me it goes much too far. There are a lot ofemployers who have in place policies that may affectelderly employees more harshly who, you know, have nointent to do that. MR. CRABTREE: That's certainly true, anddefinitely, the doctrine goes beyond that. But what weare suggesting is it will also, it also prevents anemployer from being able to hide behind --QUESTION: Well, you want us to consider thecase on the assumption that the employer has no intent todiscriminate. He actually has, his intentions areabsolutely pure, but in some instances, he is still goingto be liable under the adverse, pardon me, disparateimpact theory. MR. CRABTREE: In many instances, that iscorrect, Justice Scalia. QUESTION: And that's your position. MR. CRABTREE: That is our position. That'scorrect. QUESTION: Okay. So you are relying on th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC disparate impact alone? MR. CRABTREE: That is correct, Your Honor. QUESTION: May I ask, because it's alwayshelpful to me to know, what's at stake in the particularcase. What is the practice that you claim has a disparateimpact in this case? MR. CRABTREE: What we have alleged in thiscase is that the employer's reduction in force has had adisparate impact upon the older workers, the selectiondevice of the older workers. QUESTION: Are you saying reductions in forceare always practices that if they have a disparate impact,give rise to a, an age discrimination claim? MR. CRABTREE: No, Your Honor, because invirtually every instance where there is reduction in forceit will be quite easy for an employer to satisfy thedefense under the reasonable factors of the age provisionof the act. QUESTION: What is different about thereduction in force in this case? MR. CRABTREE: Well, in this case, Your Honor,as the district court acknowledged in its opinion that weare proceeding from, we had evidence at the highest levelsthat the decision to undertake the downsizing was actuallya decision to get rid of, intended to get rid of older th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC workers. claim? QUESTION: That's the disparate treatmentMR. CRABTREE: Unfortunately, it's not, YourHonor, because as the district court judge acknowledged,we could not make a disparate treatment case under thesefacts because in the disparate treatment case, we wouldstill have to prove, unless we could make a cat's pawanalysis that the actual decision maker harbored an animusagainst the employee who is terminated. But what we aresuggesting under this model and under this framework isthat if we can make a prima facie case of disparateimpact, then the employer can justify that impact byshowing that its decision was based upon reasonablefactors and that those reasonable factors --QUESTION: But this is what I -- excuse me forinterrupting, but is it the decision to downsize that ithas to be reasonable or the particular discharge decisionson each individual have to be reasonable? MR. CRABTREE: We have identified in this casethe action of the employer as being the decision todownsize itself. QUESTION: The decision to downsize itself? MR. CRABTREE: Which for most instances will bemuch more difficult probably for plaintiffs than it would th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC be if you want on a more micro-level. However --QUESTION: Why would it be more difficult? Allyou have to prove if I understand your theory is thatthere are more older workers in the group that weredischarged than younger workers? MR. CRABTREE: Will, it would have to be asubstantially disparate impact between the two groups. Itwould be more difficult because it would be much easierfor an employer to justify a reduction in force in almostany circumstance. QUESTION: I thought you conceded that it wasnot enough for you to show disparate impact. That youhad, say percent of the people and my problem with yourpresentation is the same as Justice Stevens. In everydisparate impact case that I know, a rule neutral is onits face that disparate impact like the high schooldiploma requirement in Griggs, there is the standard thathas a differential effect. A high school diploma, a penand paper test as in Washington V. Davis, a height, weightrequirement as in Dothard vs. Rawlinson, but you don'tcome to us with any rule, standard, practice. You justsay reduction in force. MR. CRABTREE: Well, what we are saying isthis, is that the Court indicated in Wards Cove that theplaintiff in an age -- in a discrimination case is to th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC identify a specific practice or action by an employer thatresults in disparate impact that cannot be justified. Wehave identified this downsizing as being such a practicebecause we don't believe the employer can justify itbecause the downsizing was motivated by desire to --QUESTION: Why don't we leave motive out of itfor purposes -- forget motive. Let's imagine in yourcase, that's what I thought this case was about, weimagine in your case the employer had a wonderful motive. There are other cases where the rule in question was weare going to fire some tenured teachers to save money. That was the real reason to save money. The tenuredteachers tend to be older teachers. There was anothercase in which they said the court looked at a rule thatsaid we will fire people in the higher-paid positions. That was their real reason to save money. But the court said each of those rules likeyour case, too, has a disparate impact on older employees. And just saving money is not a justification and thereforethe plaintiff wins. Now, I take it that's the propositionyou are defending. MR. CRABTREE: We are defending thatproposition. That's correct. QUESTION: Okay. Then the other parts to meare easy. Of course you can use it to prove bad motive, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC et cetera, but that's the hard proposition. Now, I wishyou would explain why as a matter of law that toughproposition nonetheless is the law. MR. CRABTREE: Well, we believe it's the lawbecause the prohibitions themselves as construed in Griggsapply to actions and then the reasonable --QUESTION: Well, the background in Griggs wasracial discrimination, and the policies there seem to meto rest on a long history of societal and historical biasagainst black people. Now, we don't have that backgroundwith age discrimination, do we? MR. CRABTREE: No, Justice O'Connor, we do not.QUESTION: So it might be quite a differentproposition here. MR. CRABTREE: Respectfully, no, Your Honor. And here's why. As the court acknowledged in Watson, thecourt is not limited a disparate impact to remedying pastproblems with discrimination. Disparate impact goesbeyond that. Disparate impact exists to detectsubconscious stereotypes operating in the work force,exactly what the court identified as the primary form ofdiscrimination that exists under the ADEA. Thirdly, in Griggs the court said that thelegislative purpose of the act was "plain from thelanguage of the statute", so the court was looking at the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC statute itself. QUESTION: That's a good idea. What is thestatute that we are dealing with here? Can we look at thelanguage of the statute? MR. CRABTREE: Sure, Your Honor. It's on page.A, the appendix to the petitioner's brief. And when youlook at the statute itself, what you see between (a)()and (a)() is a difference between a micro and amacro-orientation. In (a)(), we are concerned about anemployer's individual actions directed towards anindividual employee, but in (a)(), we are concerned withan employer's macro-actions directed towards its employeesand how that impacts individuals. QUESTION: In each of those cases, Mr.Crabtree, it says because of such individual's age. Now,doesn't that suggest that there is some motiverequirement? MR. CRABTREE: No, Your Honor. We don'tbelieve it does and I'll explain why. When you look at(a)(), the clause because of such individual's age, theword individual is critical because at the beginning oftwo, it reads, to limit, segregate or classify hisemployees in any way which would deprive or tend todeprive any individual of employment opportunities orotherwise adversely affect his status as an employee th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC because of such individual's age. So the clause relatesto the effect and not to the motive of the actor. QUESTION: I would think it relates to, to thelimit, segregate or classify. MR. CRABTREE: It cannot, Your Honor, becausethe word his employees follows those words. QUESTION: In any event, the wording isidentical to Title VII, and Title VII on that wording hasbeen held to have this differential impact theory for sex,as well as race. MR. CRABTREE: That's absolutely correct,Justice Ginsburg. And of course, Congress has never actedto expressly prohibit disparate impact under Title VII. The only prohibition of disparate impact under Title VIIis in its age as the court construed in Griggs and Griggs'progeny. QUESTION: Was this language adopted in thisform after it had been clearly established that the TitleVII language did include disparate impact? You know, asan original matter, I wouldn't have thought it did. MR. CRABTREE: Oh, it did not. QUESTION: We held that. Now, was thislanguage adopted after we held that or before it? MR. CRABTREE: It was before, Your Honor. Itcertainly was. However -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: After Title VII, but before Griggs? MR. CRABTREE: That's correct. And to holdthat this language does not prohibit disparate impactwould mean that there was no disparate impact under TitleVII. Even in the Civil Rights Act, all Congress didwas define a defense. QUESTION: But it seems to me that even if weaccept your reading of the statute which I am not sure isthe more natural reading, you still have because of suchindividual's age, that is to say what you would calldisparate impact, what the statute says adverse impactmust still be because of such individual's age and if wethink because of, implies or necessarily requires a badpurpose, you still have the same problem.MR. CRABTREE: If because of did require a badpurpose, we would, however, there is two reasons why wecan, why it is not. One is that the first one is that thereasonable factors other than age defense cannot makesense if the prohibitions only apply to intentionalactions.QUESTION: Now you are going to the second. Justso I'm focusing in on this. (A)(), it seems to me thatyour reading of the statute doesn't explain because of,then you have to go to this other part of the statute,which you have to do any way. So I mean this whole th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC argument over how to interpret it seems to me doesn'tget you there. MR. CRABTREE: Again, we are relating becauseof back to the effect of the individual and we are relyingupon the court's interpretation of that language inGriggs. QUESTION: Well, one, one might feel thatGriggs is stare decisis because it could feel that perhapsit reasoning would not readily be extended if there wassome reason for distinguishing it. MR. CRABTREE: That might make sense. I wouldagree, Your Honor, however we don't believe there is anybasis to distinguish here given the court's subsequentcases post-Griggs. QUESTION: But as -- may I go back to thequestion that we opened with, and that is I don't know ofany case under Title VII where someone could just sayreduction in force affected more women than men,therefore, I have an impact case or reduction in force, itaffected more minorities than majorities so therefore. It's always been some specific practice that you couldidentify some rule, some neutral rule. In fact, it's evensometimes referred to as neutralized base discriminatoryand impact. Here I don't -- reduction of force in and of th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC itself is not such a neutral rule. It's -- it's toogeneral. So I, what is the precise rule practice standardthat's comparable to a high school diploma, a height andweight. What is there in this case? MR. CRABTREE: Your Honor, two answers. Firstof all, that we equate reduction in force to a test. It'sa selection process. We are not challenging a question onthe test. We are challenging the test itself. But evenif the court were to find that we have inadequatelyidentified the action of the employer that should besubject to disparate impact analysis, we would still, it'san interlocutory proceeding. We would be happy to proceedon the theory as the court redefines or the court definesdisparate impact under the ADEA. We would amend ourcomplaint in accordance with the court's ruling. QUESTION: I don't think that the districtcourt finding allows you to say the standard is thereduction itself because the district judge said that thepeople involved held a wide variety of jobs, were managedand supervised by different people and were terminated atdifferent times by different decision makers based ondifferent considerations of criteria, and that seems to mejust wholly to reject that there is a rule or a standard. MR. CRABTREE: The reason why we believe it'simportant to be able to do the analysis with the reduction th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC of force being the action is because otherwise it wouldallow an employer to purposely choose to do a reduction inforce to get rid of its older workers where there is acorporate culture pervaded by ageism and have consequencesas it did here where it greatly reduced the age of itswork force. QUESTION: What is your closest precedent underTitle VII dealing with race or dealing with sex where youhave something so groundly general as a reduction in forcewith different decisions, different standards, differenttimes? MR. CRABTREE: There are cases dealing withreduction of force under Title VII. There is one NAACPvs. Medical Center, Inc., It was out of the third circuit. F.d . There have probably been others. QUESTION: And nothing more specific than areduction in force? MR. CRABTREE: Candidly, Justice Ginsburg, Idon't recall. I just know --QUESTION: Mr. Crabtree, I thought the questionon which we granted certiorari was not whether thisparticular claim of disparate impact was too general ornot specific enough. But whether the whole, I'll read it,is a disparate impact method of proving age discriminationavailable to plaintiffs. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. CRABTREE: That's correct, Justice Scalia. QUESTION: And I would hope you would addressJustice Breyer's question in which he said why should wedo this to say that tenured employees are the highersalaried employees? What would be the justification in acase such as that for using your theory of liability? MR. CRABTREE: Well, in most instances,employer is going to be able to explain why he engages inany selection process. QUESTION: Most instances, they can't explainit very well. In most instances, I think in a business ora university, you begin to look into it, and it dissolvesin front of your eyes. People say you could do it thisway, you could do it that way, you could do it some otherway, and it will turn out you haven't thought about itthat much. Now, it may well be sensible to make anemployer go to that effort we were talking about race andgender, and yet here, there is so many rules correlatedwith age. There are so many that how could the employerrun his business where you are going to have a courtsecond-guessing every single rule that's correlated withage. That's the problem. What's your response? MR. CRABTREE: And that may very well be whyCongress chose to use the result factors other than agelanguage, and that is why there are, although we don't th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC agree with them, why there were good intellectualarguments that reasonable factors other than age issomething less than business necessity. That it is easierto justify. QUESTION: What would your test be? I mean doyou think the ninth circuit in the cases I mentioned wasright? I mean, if you are going to apply exactly the sametough tests as in these other places, maybe they were. What's your opinion about that? MR. CRABTREE: We believe that the term isambiguous. And we believe for that reason the courtshould defer interpretation. QUESTION: Which is what? Say what you thinkthe form of words is? MR. CRABTREE: That it is that the employermust justify the action as being business necessity. QUESTION: But reasonable factors other thanage provision doesn't really solve Justice Breyer'sproblem, does it, because it puts the burden on theemployer to establish that, doesn't it? MR. CRABTREE: It does, Your Honor. QUESTION: So you are still in a situationwhere the employer said well he could have done it a lotof different ways and you are saying I'm sorry, that's nogood. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. CRABTREE: But if the employer must onlyshow that its action was reasonable, it is not asdemanding as showing that it was necessary. QUESTION: You said emphasize reason. QUESTION: It's still a burden on him. MR. CRABTREE: It is still a burden on him. Yes, Your Honor. QUESTION: May I go back to the --QUESTION: Please. QUESTION: May I go back to your argument of aminute ago that the, that the various defenses make nosense except on the disparate impact theory possibility ofdisparate impact theory. What is your response to theargument that they make equally good sense on the theorythat they respond to mixed motive discharges? What's youranswer? MR. CRABTREE: They don't make sense on themixed motive analysis because in the mixed motive analysisthere is still an issue as to whether or not theemployer's illegal motive caused an illegal action. In a,in a statute, it provides that the action is otherwiseprohibitive, so you already have an action that is itselfa violation of the act but-for the defense that follows. We don't have the same concerns we have in a mixed motivecase where we don't know if the motive of the employer th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC actually caused the action. It's already been determinedas a premise of the defense.There is an additional reason why we believethat the court should hold that disparate impact appliesunder the ADEA. And that is Congress passed the OWBPA andprovided that employees who were terminated in reductionsin force should be entitled to, were entitled to receivephysical information prior to deciding whether or not totake the termination package, presumably of substantialeconomic value, or take their chances in litigation. Given that disparate treatment can generallynot be predicated upon nothing more than statistics. Andgiven that employees terminated in RIF's usually do nothave an independent basis to suspect that they are beingsingled out for discrimination.QUESTION: Mr. Crabtree, could I just come backfor a moment to, to your argument which I think is animportant one that some of the defenses don't make senseunless there is a discriminatory impact basis. What aboutthe defense that says it will not be unlawful to dischargeor otherwise discipline an individual, an individual, forgood cause? I mean, that's obviously a redundancy. Itcan only imply to an intentional discrimination case, notto a, not to an impact case. But it's obviously redundantbecause if you are disciplining him for good cause, you th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC are obviously not disciplining him with a motive ofpunishing his age. It's just thoroughly redundant. Itseems to me a lot of these defenses are redundant. Theyare just there to make clear that there are safe harbors,one of which is disciplining an individual for good cause. Another one is observing the terms of a seniority systemand so forth. MR. CRABTREE: Well, when you are observing theterms of a seniority system, you know, you may be lookingat age directly. You may have, you can easily have aviolation that exists under the act otherwise. QUESTION: Well, no, I don't, I don't know anyseniority systems that go on the basis of people's age asopposed to how long they have been working there. Do youknow any seniority systems that say you have moreseniority if you are ? MR. CRABTREE: I'm not sure, Your Honor. Idon't have an answer to that. But I don't think that wecan disregard the words of the reasonable factors otherthan age in this case. I don't think we can ignore theterm reasonable factors, and when you look at, at (f)(),and you look --QUESTION: It's redundant. It's just redundantthe way to discharge, it's lawful to discharge anindividual for good cause. Of course it's redundant. You th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC don't have to say that once you say that there has to beeither intentional discrimination, or as you would say,adverse impact. You are talking about disciplining anindividual. You really don't need that. Once you saythere has to be intentional discrimination, but it's therejust to make everything that much clearer. And you canmake the same argument about the BFOA provision. MR. CRABTREE: You might be able to make that argument,but it is not the most logical argument. It does notrespect Congress' words. It does not respect the factthat Congress required that the factors not just beneutral, but that they be reasonable because even if weignored the otherwise prohibitive language, JusticeScalia, we still have to give effect to the termreasonable. Congress not merely required that the factorsexist or that they be legitimate or bonafide as in the EPAor as Gunther acknowledged, but that they be reasonable aswell. QUESTION: I don't want. I think you should beable to reserve your rebuttal time. But I do have onequestion. You seem to acceed to Justice O'Connor'ssuggestion that Griggs involving racial discriminationinvolved deeply rooted attitudes which called for specialrules, and that those just don't apply with the age th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC factor. Would you want us to write the opinion that way,or are there some subtle biases against elderly workersthat are important to support your theory? If you train a worker, you are going to get abetter return on your investment as the worker is younger,etc. MR. CRABTREE: That's certainly true, JusticeKennedy. There are those subtle biases and that's whatSecretary Ward's report acknowledged and that's what thecourt acknowledged in Hazen Paper when it said that subtlebiases, stereotypes are largely an issue, not animus inage discrimination and that is consistent with the court'sholding in Watson that disparate impact exists largely todetect subtle biases. If I may, Your Honor, I'll reservethe remainder of my time. QUESTION: Very well, Mr. Crabtree. Mr. Nager,we'll hear from you.ORAL ARGUMENT OF GLEN D. NAGERON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTSMR. NAGER: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court: If I may, I'd like to address why fullyconsistent and giving full respect to Griggs vs. DukePower Company, this Court can and should hold that the agediscrimination and employment act does not make --QUESTION: Even though the language is th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC essentially the same? MR. NAGER: Justice O'Connor, it's not. It iscommon language in Section , but this Court doesn'tconstrue language in a statute in isolation from theremainder of the statute, and the remainder of thisstatute is quite different. The remainder of the statuteincludes the reasonable factors other than age provision. The remainder of this statute is based upon a report ofthe Secretary of Labor which said that the problems of agediscrimination in the workplace were quite distinct andquite different from the problems that motivated theenactment of Title VII and it's the problems thatmotivated the enactment of Title VII which gave rise toGriggs. That's what this Court said in Griggs. It's whatyour opinion for the court says in Watson. So what, if welook at the statute, statutory language not in isolation,because in fact, we can read all of the court's Title VIIdisparate impact cases and we won't see the languageparsed. The court looked at that language in terms of the overall objectives of the statute, and rendered a decisionin light of the distinct and enormous problems of racediscrimination that this country has faced and dealt with. Age discrimination, the Congress itself recognized wasdifferent. That's why it didn't include age in Title VII. Instead it commissioned a report from the secretary of th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC labor to tell us about the problems of older workers. Recommend legislation to us. And the bill, the report that was commissionedwas submitted. This Court repeatedly in EEOC vs. Wyoming,in Hazen Paper, has repeatedly recognized that that reportset the foundation for the statute.QUESTION: I thought you were going to tell usthat because of age, is one of your strongest points, andas Justice O'Connor said, that's the same languagestructure that we had in Griggs, and that we would have tointerpret them differently. MR. NAGER: You are right, Justice Kennedy. QUESTION: But, but, but then you automaticallythrow me over I guess to part (f) and talk aboutreasonable factors other than age, which is exactly whatthe petition wanted to do.MR. NAGER: That's my lack of clarity, JusticeKennedy. What we are suggesting to the Court is the morenatural construction of the language in (a), the becauseof language, is an intent requirement. The fact of thatintent requirement is confirmed and compelled by theremaining provisions in the statute. Our suggestion isjust as your opinion in Public Employee Retirement Systemvs. Betts did. QUESTION: May I just interrupt. I want to be th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC sure I have -- you think that because of such individual'sage or more normally refers to the very first part of theparagraph that talks in the plural rather than thesingular? MR. NAGER: Yes, Justice Stevens, because thestructure of the statute says that the employer can'tlimit, segregate or classify his employees in a way thathas an adverse effect on an individual. QUESTION: On any individual. MR. NAGER: Because of such individual's age. QUESTION: Correct. The effect that thatmodifies, not the classification. MR. NAGER: No. The comma in that provision, Ithink eliminates any ambiguity about what the because ofphrase modifies. That it modifies the verbs to limit,segregate or classify. QUESTION: Even though the former is plural andthe because of is singular? MR. NAGER: Because the sentence has to be readas a whole. It says limit, segregate or classify theemployees in a way that has an effect on an individualbecause of the individual's age. QUESTION: Right. MR. NAGER: But the --QUESTION: You said it perfectly. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. NAGER: It is -- I would grant you that itis not the most elegantly written sentence in the world,but I would also urge upon you, Your Honor, that the commain that sentence grammatically compels that the because ofphrase modifies the to limit, segregate or classify. QUESTION: Your view is well, Title VII, thecourt really got it wrong. They are not good grammarians,so they got it wrong, but that's stare decisis so we'llleave it alone, because it's the identical wording, the Fpart I think you may have more of an argument therebecause it's not found in Title VII. But if your grammarargument has to be saying, and tell me if I'm wrong aboutthis, the court really got it wrong in Griggs becausethere is no room for an impact test under Title VII anymore than under age, but because the court said it in and continued to say it, we are stuck with it, but wedon't have to make the same mistake again. Is that yourargument? MR. NAGER: Justice Ginsburg, I'm not here tochallenge Griggs in any respect. I am here to say thatthe more natural construction of that language was not theone the court adopted in Griggs, and just as this Courtdoes that on occasion because of other materials thatinfluence the construction of a statute.QUESTION: I mean, we look at the whole th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC statute, as you said, not just the comma. MR. NAGER: That's the point. QUESTION: The comma could be outweighed byother factors in one statute, and not in the other. MR. NAGER: And that is what the court hasfound in its Title VII cases. QUESTION: A comma is not a very big thing, isit? thing. MR. NAGER: I'm sorry, could you --QUESTION: I say a comma is not a very bigMR. NAGER: Well, it is part of the statute,and we think it has to be taken into account, but ourargument that the age discrimination employment act shouldnot be allowed to recognize disparate impact claims doesnot rest solely on the comma. Our point about Section(a), Justice Kennedy and Justice Ginsburg is that themore natural construction of that language is the, anintent requirement, as Chief Justice Rehnquist recognizedin his separate opinion on certiorari in Geller vs.Markham. The fact that the court found otherconsiderations to lead to a different conclusion in thecontext of a limited class of Title VII cases does notcompel a particular construction of the Age DiscriminationEmployment Act. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC We have to look at those other considerationsthat inform the construction of the Age DiscriminationAct. QUESTION: Well, I can see you point to (f) inthe reasonableness because there is no counterpart to thatin Title VII, but frankly --MR. NAGER: That's --QUESTION: Frankly, I would find it unseemly totake the identical words and say we ignore the comma inone case. If we had paid attention to the comma, you haveto reach the same result. MR. NAGER: I don't think it's unseemly at all,Justice Ginsburg. QUESTION: If you are wrong the first time. MR. NAGER: Well, I'm not here to take --QUESTION: Which stare decisis would require usto accept for Title VII but wouldn't require us to acceptfor this statute. QUESTION: That's the very point I made to you,and you rejected it. I said --MR. NAGER: Justice Ginsburg, this Court has onany number of occasions, and I'll use the Chief Justice'sopinion in Fogerty vs. Fantasy as an illustration, saidthat identical language in two separate statutes can begiven two different meanings by this Court if a single th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC meaning isn't compelled by the words themselves and if thestatute has different purposes or different legislativehistory. You coined that opinion. QUESTION: But here we know even though Griggsdidn't come until sometime later, the Congress did, whenit wrote the Age Discrimination Act, it did copy quitedeliberately the Title VII language. MR. NAGER: That is true. But it is also thecase that it did not copy the (f)() language. It isalso the case that at the time --QUESTION: But that's a different argument,looking at the statute as a whole and saying whatever thefirst part means, here we have another part that's absentfrom Title VII so we don't have to interpret it the sameway. MR. NAGER: I have two points. Congresscouldn't have known about Griggs at the time that the,that it used the language from Title VII in (a) becauseGriggs hadn't yet been decided, so that was not awell-established construction by this Court in . Butyou are also right, it is the essence of our argumenthere, not to ask the Court to construe (a) in isolation. It's to ask the Court to do as it did in Betts and as itdoes in any number of cases to construe (a) in light ofthe other provisions. Justice Scalia has made the point th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC about the discharge for cause. We also make the pointabout the reasonable factors other than age. That is anintent-based provision and it shows that this statute atevery turn was concerned with employer intent, whether itbe good cause, whether it be decisions . QUESTION: What you do you with the argument,which I think is an interesting one, that it is areasonable factors other than age requirement. MR. NAGER: It is --QUESTION: If, if there were an intentrequirement in the act, it wouldn't matter whether you areusing reasonable factors or not, so long as you are notusing age. You know, I don't like people with blue eyes. That ought to be good enough, so long as blue eyes hasnothing to do with age. MR. NAGER: As you have pointed out, JusticeScalia, it's perfectly appropriate for Congress to clarifyand make unambiguous in any respect conceivable that itdoes not want any decision that's based upon a reasonablefactor to be subject to liability under this statute. Secondly --QUESTION: Okay, but that argument is equallycompatible with the position that your brother is takingon the other side, and if you take the ambiguity that isleft, and you combine it with the argument that Justice th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Ginsburg is making about the parallel language with TitleVII, doesn't it lead you to say all right, the parallellanguage is answered only by an argument which in fact,boils down to an ambiguity and an ambiguity doesn't defeatthe policy of construing like statutes, like draftedstatutes in a like manner.MR. NAGER: The answer to that is no. Thereason that it's no is because whatever one thinks thereasonable factor other than the word reasonable and thereasonable factors other than age means, it's still amotive-based test based upon what considerations are youtaking into account, and --QUESTION: Why does it have to be a reasonablefactor other than age? I'm not sure you have answered myquestion? So long as it's not age, the intent factor isnot satisfied. You should be able to use an unreasonablefactor other than age. MR. NAGER: You absolutely can. Section Fsimply clarifies what's lawful. It doesn't tell us what'sunlawful. We only can find what's unlawful by going to(a) and reading it in light of the provisions in (a). QUESTION: So you say it's a safe harborprovision for sure if it's a reasonable factor other thanage, it's okay? MR. NAGER: And it tells us more than that, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Justice Scalia. It tells us that intent is what counts. Interestingly enough, our opponents in both their openingbrief and their reply brief concede that the phrase basedupon reasonable factors other than age is a reference toan intent requirement, and the whole notion, as JusticeBreyer has pointed out through his questioning at theopening of this argument, is what distinguishes adisparate treatment case from an impact case is thatintent is irrelevant, so if reasonable factors other thanage --QUESTION: I don't really understand -- I mustsay, I don't entirely follow the argument. Supposing youhave a test that you have to have an IQ above ,something or other, in order to avoid discharge, and youfind that that has a disparate impact on older workers forsome reason, they lose their intelligence quota orsomething like that. Beyond the age. MR. NAGER: Bad news for us. QUESTION: Bad news for many of us. But thereis statistics that show that. And you might come back andsay I didn't realize that or something like that. Itwould be enough for you to show that, that that's totallyirrelevant because you just didn't realize that fact. Butwhy then would they need to say you have to defend that asa reasonable practice? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. NAGER: The legislative history and thesecretary's report makes quite clear why they put thereasonable in there, because they were concerned about themixed motive cases. This statute, when it was originallydiscussed, the question came up, does this mean age has tobe the only factor that's considered in order for it to belawful solely? And the answer to that was the secretarycame back and said no. We recognize that employers have beenconsidering age for a long time. What we think theCongress should prohibit is the use of age as a screeningdevice to filter. Now, it will still be the case becausehuman beings are human beings that employers will still becognizant of employees' age. They can't help but be. But so long as a reasonable factor other thanage is the basis of the decision, there should be noliability for it. QUESTION: Yes, but why is that necessary todeal with mixed motive? Why can't you recognize mixedmotive by recognizing unreasonable factors other than age? That's an equally mixed motive, if you would have anunreasonable factor. MR. NAGER: Well, every time that the mixedmotive issue has been discussed, this Court in construingTitle VII, in construing the National Labor Relations Act, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC in construing the Constitution, the and Mt. Healthycases, has always put a verb -- an adjective, motivatingfactor, substantial factor. Congress is speaking incommon sense terms in writing these clarifying provisionsto make it clear that age had to be the but-for cause ofan employment action, and the employer had to intend itthat we give you the illustration, our brief of JudgeWright's opinion for the D.C. circuit in Cuddy vs. Carmen,which talks about how the two provisions were intended towork in tandem just as Justice Kennedy's opinion for thisCourt in Betts said that (f)() and (a) were supposed towork in tandem to define the elements of a plaintiff'scase. Could (a) have been written and construedwithout a clarifying provision? Of course. And we wouldbe taking that position whether that additional languagewas there or not. But it doesn't weaken our argument inthe slightest that Congress went further and clarifiedwhat the standards would be in a mixed motive case. QUESTION: Well, what, what does seem to weakenthe argument is leaving even aside the mixed motiveargument, you were, you are arguing that a reasonablefactor test is proof that in fact it was a, an, amalicious motive-based liability in the first place. Andit seems to me that what you are saying, if that is true, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC then any motive other than the proscribed one is going todefeat liability. MR. NAGER: That's correct. QUESTION: And the odd thing is that you aresaying that by specifying a reasonable factor defense,Congress was indicating that there would be anunreasonable factor defense because reasonable orunreasonable, if it's not age, there is no liability. Andthat it seems to me is an odd argument to say that byputting in the word reasonable they are, they are ineffect confirming that an unreasonable defense would beequally good. MR. NAGER: I think the answer to that questionis that reasonableness goes, is a permissible, thereasonableness of a nondiscriminatory factor that anemployer offers is something that a judge can consider andif he finds a disputed issue of fact, a jury can considerin deciding whether or not the nondiscriminatory factorthat is offered is a pretext for age discrimination. QUESTION: But if you really held that reason. In other words, the reasonableness of the, of theemployer's alleged motive goes somehow to the credibilityof the employer's argument that it was his motive, is thatwhat you are getting at? MR. NAGER: Correct. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: As an evidentiary point, I see it. As a logical point for defining the statute, it seems tome that it's clear. MR. NAGER: Well, I understand your point,Justice Souder, and I will be the first to acknowledgethis case would be easier if the word reasonable weren'tthere. But all the Court has to decide in this case iswhether or not the statute embraces a disparate impacttest. QUESTION: Is there anywhere we can go, isthere any way if you were finished, were you? MR. NAGER: Well, I just wanted to make thefollowing point. Whether it's a reasonable motive or anunreasonable motive, it's still a motive and that'sincompatible with disparate impact. The question is oneof intent, not one of statistical correlations with ageand not one of accuracy and verifiability of businessjudgment which are the two core issues in a disparateimpact case. What distinguishes fundamentally a disparatetreatment case from a disparate impact case is that in atreatment case while statistics are appropriate statisticsthat would satisfy Delbare are admissible, and can go tomotive, the issue that we argue to the jury is motive. Wedon't argue about whether or not the correlation is so th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC substantial that it itself would state a prima facieviolation and the jury is not allowed to question theemployer's business judgment if it finds that in fact theemployer was not motivated by age, and that makes a hugedifference at a practical level and a legal level in theresolution of age discrimination cases, and that of courseis why we would say that impact claims should not berecognized. I'm sorry. QUESTION: Is there any way, which I'm sure youdon't want to bring up necessarily, but is there any wayshort of saying there is never a disparate impact claim? The problem that you mention could be alleviated. If Ithink, for example, that unlike race or gender, we mightgo into an ordinary company and find dozens or hundreds ormaybe virtually every rule or practice or limitationconnected with promotions is correlated with age. MR. NAGER: That's true. QUESTION: On the other hand, you might havesome rules that are really correlated with age veryheavily and have no justification. All right, so is therea way of dealing with that problem short of saying thereis never a disparate impact case? MR. NAGER: Well, there is a way of dealingwith it. I think Justice O'Connor's opinion for the Courtin Hazen Paper sets it out for us, but it doesn't require th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC the recognition of a disparate impact claim. JusticeO'Connor's opinion for the Court in Hazen Paper says thatmerely showing a correlation is not enough to create aninference of disparate treatment, but the court left openthe question if the employer, the reason they used thefactor, there was evidence that they thought that thatfactor should be used. QUESTION: That denies my hypothetical. That'ssaying you are going to go over to intent. What I'masking you is if in fact the language here does justify adisparate impact case, a real one, what I have beentalking about throughout. Is there any way to deal withthe problem of practicalities, which is a big one? Thatdistinguishes this from race and gender. MR. NAGER: Well, I can only answer thequestion the following two ways. I don't think Congresscontemplated which may be my legal answer for you. And I can answer it to you practically becauseI advise employers on these issues, and the way we dealwith these issues now is not to change the practicesunless we find they are really ridiculous. The way weadvise our employers to deal with these practices now isto use quotas. When we advise employers if they are doinga reduction in force as to how to reduce the probabilityof a disparate impact claim and the circuits that have th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC recognized them, we take out little five-year age bans andunder and over and we assess who is included withinit and who isn't included within it, and we tell them ifyou don't change the numbers, you face a greater exposureto a claim. Now, that is, I guess one way of discouragingemployers from having thoughtless, even though not agedbiased practice by the sword of a major lawsuit. Whetheror not that's a legally common --QUESTION: But you don't have the power to dowhich this case I guess does ask us to do possibly, andthat is also to look at the question of the defense hereand say what does it mean in context? I mean, you couldsay, for example, reasonably necessary means necessary. Or you could say that reasonably necessary means areasonable practice giving weight to the employer'sreasonable judgment in this. There are a lot of thingsyou could say. So I want your opinion on that. MR. NAGER: Well, my opinion is that thestatute doesn't say reasonably necessary. That's what theBFOQ provision says. QUESTION: BFOQ. Based on reasonable factors. It's hard to get around that. Based on --MR. NAGER: Yes. It's, the entire phrase hasto be read. It says based on it. What are the factors? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC And that's a reference to motive. We know that from theordinary English language, we know it from this Court'sown cases talking about factors, and we know it from thelegislative history because the secretary of labor instudying and reporting to Congress at Congress'legislative direction distinguished between purposefuluses of age as stereotypes of the abilities of olderworkers, and other forces that adversely impact olderworkers and what the secretary of labor recommended todeal with your problem that you pointed out, JusticeBreyer, is not a coercive sanction that used, made neutralpractices with disparate effects illegal. What thesecretary of labor recommended to Congress and Congressadopted his recommendation in enacting the statute was thepromotion of education, training and manpower programsboth to get employers to better understand the talents andcapabilities of older workers and where older workers were --QUESTION: Isn't the answer to Justice Breyer'sconcern about the employer who has an unreasonablecriteria that in fact has a bad impact upon older workers? Isn't the answer that there is a sanction, and that is ajury is unlikely to believe it. MR. NAGER: Yes. That's the answer I gave,but he told me I -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: Any lawyer advising such, such a,such an employer would say boy, if you are dragged intocourt, and nobody is going to believe that you didn'tadopt this for the reason of getting rid of olderemployees. That seems to me --MR. NAGER: It's a much better answer than Igave. I thought --QUESTION: It's a very good answer. I wantedto know whether there was also any other answer. QUESTION: You gave that answer. May I justask you this just to think through the problem a littlebit. Assume I agree with you percent that thereasonable factors other than age defense is amotive-based defense, why couldn't you have a good motivedefense to a prima facie case that's based on objectivefactors? MR. NAGER: Well, I don't think it's a defense. I should state that. I think that the provision is not inthere as an affirmative defense. I think the provision isin there to clarify what the scope of the prohibition is. QUESTION: Well, even as read in a defense, it'san exclusion category case, the motive. But whether it'sa defense or an exclusion, the fact that it ismotive-based doesn't seem to me necessarily to mean thatthe prima facie case must also be motive-based. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. NAGER: If we are talking about a disparatetreatment case, I agree with you, Justice Stevens, that inan appropriate case with an appropriate statisticalpresentation, a judge would be justified in saying thatthe plaintiff has presented enough evidence to require theemployer to respond to a disparate treatment allegation. Now, you know, it's hard to speak universally aboutstatistical presentations. Most of them in my experiencemay satisfy Delbare, but don't tell us very much about thereal merits of the case, but if we adopt as the premisethat you have got a particularly powerful statisticalpresentation, I don't think there is any case law andcertainly not from this Court because Teamsters and caseslike that say that statistics are admissible to proveintent, that a plaintiff couldn't have statistics alone astheir prima facie case, but it would be about intent, andthe employer would be responding about its own intent. Itwouldn't be responding about as the employer does in TitleVII cases, about -- now, we not only had a good motive. Here's the proof that we were right about what we weretrying to predict, because that is what the rebuttalburden in a Title VII dispute. QUESTION: May I ask you --QUESTION: I understand that. But it seems tome that it would be perfectly reasonable if you treat th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC disparate treatment as prima facie -- I mean a disparateimpact as prima facie evidence of a wrongful intent. ButI'm not sure that it would not also be an appropriateresponse even if disparate treatment was sufficientregardless of the actual intent. It makes good sense forCongress to put this defense in any way. I'm not sure youhave --question. MR. NAGER: I'm not sure I understood theQUESTION: Assume your opponent is right. Thatdisparate impact, which is totally innocent in terms ofany malicious intent creates a prima facie case. Would itnot nevertheless be sensible for Congress to say yes, allthat is true, but if you have the right kind of goodmotive described in this paragraph, that shallnevertheless be a defense?MR. NAGER: Well, I think that would make goodsense, but I think that Congress was advised by thesecretary of labor that we are going to see correlationsbetween age and neutral selection criteria all the time,and I don't think that Congress had in mind thatforeseeable adverse impacts, not done because of but inspite of, should be a common basis for a prima facie case,whether it be called disparate treatment or disparateimpact. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: May I understand better than I havefrom your argument why you say it's the reasonable factoris not a defense? You are saying it's like the Equal PayAct, which says any factor, any other factor other thansex. And that's always been regarded as a defense to anequal pay charge. You are charged with a violation ofequal pay and you say no, it was based on any other factorother than sex. Why isn't it, since you are using the Equal PayAct to say there is no impact theory under the Equal PayAct, why isn't this equally a defense, rather than as yousay, part of the definition?MR. NAGER: Well, perhaps our argument was notclear. We were not referring to the Equal Pay Act in theway that your question suggests. The only mention we madeof the Equal Pay Act was where we made the point that thecourt in construing Title VII disparate impact doctrinehas suggested in county of Washington vs. Gunther and inJustice Stevens' opinion for the Court in Manhart, thedisparate impact claims would not be cognizable in theareas of pay disparities correlated with gender becausethe Bennett amendment incorporated the effect of the EqualPay Act defenses into Title VII. It's our opponents whohave made arguments based upon Gunther that there issomething different about this. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: I thought you were both makingarguments? I thought, maybe I'm wrong about this, thatyour opponent was saying that this F provision is justlike business necessity under Title VII and you said Ithought, no, it's as in the Equal Pay Act when, wherethere is no impact test under the Equal Pay Act. Ithought that was your argument. Maybe I misread you. ButI think --MR. NAGER: No. That was not our argument,Justice Ginsburg. Our argument was that the reason, oneof the reasons why this Court can and should rule that theAge Discrimination Act doesn't recognize disparate impactclaims and be completely consistent and respectful ofGriggs is that the court in Title VII cases has recognizedthat other provisions of the statute may cause Griggs toyield to other congressional manifestations of intentrequirements in specific areas.QUESTION: Well then, let's just take the twostatutes. One says reasonable factor, and the other saysany factor, any other factor other than sex. Same kind ofprovision. Why in one case is it a defense and the othercase, part of the definition of the --MR. NAGER: Well, I think the answer to that isthat the court construed the four so-called affirmativedefenses as affirmative defenses under the Equal Pay Act. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC This Court in Betts recognized that when Congress wrote(f), they didn't intend for all of the provisions in (f)to be affirmative defenses. Some of them were affirmativedefenses. This Court in Criswell held that the BFOQ wasan affirmative defense. (f)() was held not to be anaffirmative defense but was held to be an exemption thatredefined the elements of a prima facie case and oursuggestion to the Court is since the reasonable factorother than age provision is not a provision in which theemployer is trying to justify the use of age, employer issaying our decision should be held lawful because it'sbased upon factors other than age that it's notappropriate to characterize that as an affirmativedefense, but rather --QUESTION: I don't follow why it isn't, youcouldn't make the very same argument about the Equal PayAct. MR. NAGER: Well, I suppose if I had beenbefore the court in arguing that case, I might havemade that argument. QUESTION: Well, that's another one we arestuck with it because it's stare decisis, isn't it? MR. NAGER: Well, no. We just recognize thatwe have a different statute and we also have a differentcourt. I mean, the fact that -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. Nager. Mr. Crabtree,you have three minutes remaining.REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF JOHN G. CRABTREEON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERSMR. CRABTREE: Thank you, Your Honor. JusticeScalia, you asked earlier why we should not construe thegood cause provision as just something similar to thereasonable factors provision. The difference is the absence of the wordsotherwise prohibited. The same words that did not existin (f) when Betts was decided. Without the words"otherwise prohibited" there would be a good argument thatthe reasonable factors defense was not a defense. Butbecause of those two critical words, it is inescapablethat there has already been a violation of the act. Second, Fogerty was a copyright case, notanother discrimination case in trying to import theattorneys fee provision, prevailing party fee provision inthat case did not make sense as it does here because theADEA in Title VII share a common purpose and the commonlegislative history and the common language. In Gunther, the court did not hold that therewas not disparate impact for a wage disparities underTitle VII. What the court held was that the defense wasany other factor and that that applied or suggested that th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC it might apply in a facially neutral practice. But thecourt also said in Gunther that the, that the Defendant,in proving its defense, must establish that factors werelegitimate and bonafide. Here, of course, we have theadditional word reasonable so mere legitimacy, or merelybeing bonafide cannot be enough. While the, as counsel conceded in mixed motivecases, the court's analysis is whether or not but-for, thebut-for analysis must be connected and whether or not theemployer's motives caused the employer's action is atissue. And again, going back to the words otherwiseprohibited, we don't have that under the reasonablefactors defense for the ADEA. I have no more to offer. QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. Crabtree. MR. CRABTREE: Thank you very much. CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: The case issubmitted.(Whereupon, at : a.m., the case in theabove-entitled matter was submitted.) th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC 