 IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XGONZAGA UNIVERSITY AND ROBERTA S. LEAGUE, Petitioners :::v. JOHN DOE : No. -:- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XWashington, D.C.Wednesday, April , The above-entitled matter came on for oralargument before the Supreme Court of the United States at: a.m.APPEARANCES:JOHN G. ROBERTS, JR., ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf ofthe Petitioners.PATRICIA A. MILLETT, ESQ., Assistant to the SolicitorGeneral, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; onbehalf of the United States, as amicus curiae,supporting the Petitioners.BETH S. BRINKMANN, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf ofthe Respondent. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC C O N T E N T SORAL ARGUMENT OF JOHN G. ROBERTS, JR., ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioners ORAL ARGUMENT OFPATRICIA A. MILLETT, ESQ.On behalf of the United States, as amicus curiae,supporting the Petitioners ORAL ARGUMENT OFBETH S. BRINKMANN, ESQ.On behalf of the Respondent REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OFJOHN G. ROBERTS, JR., ESQ.PAGEOn behalf of the Petitioners th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC P R O C E E D I N G S(: a.m.)CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: We'll hear argumentnow in Number -, Gonzaga University and Roberta S.League v. John Doe.Mr. Roberts.ORAL ARGUMENT OF JOHN G. ROBERTS, JR.ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERSMR. ROBERTS: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice, andmay it please the Court:In , when it enacted the Family EducationalRights and Privacy Act, Congress conditioned Federalfunding for educational institutions on the institutionnot having a policy or practice of releasing studentrecords without consent. Congress did not phrase thiscondition in terms of individual rights. It did not, forexample, follow the model of title IX, enacted yearsearlier and also dealing with educational institutions,and say something like, no student at a school receivingFederal funds shall have his records released without hisconsent. Instead, Congress proceeded more indirectly. Itsaid that no funds shall be made available to anyinstitution having a policy or practice of releasingstudent records without consent.The statute is directed to the Secretary of th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Education. He's the one who makes Federal fundsavailable, not to the institution receiving the funds, andcertainly not to the individual student. This Court'scases establish that that is a distinction that makes adifference. In Cannon, for example, the Court said therewould be far less reason --QUESTION: Mr. Roberts, isn't it primarily adistinction that makes a difference in connection withwhether there's an implied cause of action, rather thanwhether authorized a cause of action?MR. ROBERTS: In the implied right of actionquestion there are two questions, did Congress intend tocreate a right, and did Congress intend to provide ajudicial remedy? In the context, there are twoquestions, did Congress intend to create a right, and didCongress intend to preclude resort to the remedy, sothat first question I think is the same under bothcategories of cases, and as the Court said in Cannon, ifCongress phrases the statute as -- quote, as a prohibitionon the disbursement of public funds, there's far lessreason to think that they intended a private remedy.In addition, purpose speaks in terms of aninstitutional policy or practice, not individual instancesof disclosures. Again, the contrast with a rights-creating provision like title IX is stark. Title IX says, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC no student shall be subject to discrimination, but FERPAdoesn't look at what happens to individual students. Itlooks at institutional behavior, institutional policy orpractice.QUESTION: The statute does talk about rights ofstudents and rights of parents. It's, of course, as yousay, preceded by the mandate that there shall be nopolicy, but in this regard it seems to me to be at leastmore specific than -- with references to rights than someof the other funding statutes we've looked at.MR. ROBERTS: Well, of course, the word rightsdoes not appear in the disclosure provision, subsection(b), and in Pennhurst, where the Court was dealing withdevelopmentally disabled bill of rights, the Courtexplained that just because the statute uses the wordrights doesn't mean that it creates a right.QUESTION: Yes, I recognize in the one sectionthat we're talking about here you have a stronger argumentthan the other, but if we assume for the moment would havea cause of action under the whole act without goingdown provision by provision, then I do think you have torecognize that the act does talk about rights of students,rights of parents to look at files, et cetera.MR. ROBERTS: Well, first of all, the Court inBlessing said that you don't look at the whole act. You th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC have to look at the particular provision that is reliedupon to create the right.Second of all, we're years before Maine v.Thiboutot when Congress passed this, so it's not as ifthey're using rights as some term of art under theestablished jurisprudence, and finally, I think Congresscan use the term to refer to the opportunity of parentsand students to participate in the administrative remedy,to the criteria that the Secretary of Education is to usein deciding whether to terminate funds, without therebynecessarily triggering coverage under section .QUESTION: Well, I think it's that latterrationale that might be stronger for your case. I'll besomewhat reluctant to parse through this statute and saythere's no right under (b), there is a right under (e), etcetera.MR. ROBERTS: Well, whatever rights, whetheryou're talking -- putting aside the question whether it'sa right or a right to participate in the processthat's established under the statute, it is part of thepolicy or practice that the Secretary of Education is tolook to in deciding whether to disburse funds. Theobligation is to the Secretary, not to the institution,and that is made clear when you look at what Congress saidabout enforcement. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC The Congress said, the Secretary shall enforceFERPA, and the Secretary shall deal with violations. Now,that deal-with-violations language should strike the Courtas unusual and, in fact, nowhere else in the United StatesCode does Congress tell an agency to deal with violations. It has almost a colloquial tone to it. Mr. Secretary,FERPA is your problem, you deal with the violations. There's no suggestion that they would be dealt with byprivate actions brought in court and, in fact, thatconclusion is reinforced when you look at subsection (g),which tells the Secretary, you set up an office to deal --QUESTION: Whereabouts is this, Mr. Roberts?MR. ROBERTS: a of our statutory appendix,Your Honor.QUESTION: Thank you.MR. ROBERTS: It says to the Secretary, you setup an office to investigate, process, review, andadjudicate complaints about violations under FERPA. Ithink this is something --QUESTION: You say violations of this section. You tell us that there's no violation of this sectionunless there's a policy, right?MR. ROBERTS: There's no violation unlessthere's a policy.QUESTION: So he doesn't have to investigate any th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC individual complaint, unless the person comes in and says,not only do they do it to me, but this is their policy,right?MR. ROBERTS: It's evidence that there might bea problem with the school's policy, and this is what makesit different, for example, from the Wright case. InWright, the Court said, look, all you can do is terminatefunding. There's no process to bring complaints to theattention of the Secretary. That's not enough.Here, Congress said to the Secretary, you set upa complaint procedure, and if someone's got a problem withthe release of their records you investigate it, youprocess the complaint, you review it, and you adjudicateit, and what has happened is that complaints have come in,and the Family Policy Compliance Office have gottenresponses from the university, and voluntary compliancehas ensured that the policy and practice of theinstitution complies with the Secretary's view.QUESTION: I guess that that's all that theplaintiff could accomplish in court anyway. Theplaintiffs here don't contend that they would be entitledto recovery if there is no policy or practice.MR. ROBERTS: That's correct. That's correct.QUESTION: So the Secretary's enforcementauthority is coextensive with what the court did. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. ROBERTS: In terms of the scope ofliability --QUESTION: You'd need an allegation of a policyor practice.MR. ROBERTS: Exactly, but it is the fact thatCongress focused on the policy or practice that helpsestablish that they were not concerned with individualinstances of disclosure. It is odd to speak of adistinctly individual right being protected when whetherit's protected or not depends on whether the school doesthe same thing to others. That looks more like a systemicconcern, not an individual concern, and it's the --QUESTION: Well, Mr. Roberts, why are theymutually exclusive? The Secretary has this authority, andI think your argument would be more impressive if thiswere a large operation. On the one hand you say, thecourts, that the institutions will be harassed by allthese lawsuits across the country, and yet this one agencythat you are saying will take care of it, this centralizedadministration, we're told that as of it had all ofseven staff members in that entire office, hardly a numberthat is likely to be able to handle a lot of complaints.MR. ROBERTS: It's very important to keep inmind the distinction between how matters are handledbefore the Family Policy Compliance Office and in court. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC FERPA places a premium on voluntary compliance, oninformal and inexpensive adjudication. A damagesaction in Federal court doesn't. The statute says theSecretary shall deal with violations, not the court. TheSecretary says -- and the statute goes on to say, we'regoing to tell you how to deal with individualcomplainants. They don't go to court, either. They go tothe office that's set up by the Secretary, and there theywill find an informal, inexpensive procedure in whichpeople can quickly find out what the school's answer isand, in a case in which it suggests that there's a policyor practice problem, secure voluntary problem.QUESTION: Do we know from the -- maybe theSolicitor General can tell us -- if the seven people areoverworked?MR. ROBERTS: In fact, in practice most of whatthey do is field questions from the school, how do wehandle this situation, what do we do about this?QUESTION: But how do you get a stop order? Oneof the points that were made is that if records are aboutto be divulged to, say, a newspaper, and the student orthe parent wants an immediate stop order, you can go intocourt and get a TRO. There's nothing comparable in theSecretary's arsenal that has that kind of muscle behindit, is there? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. ROBERTS: There certainly is. The firstthing, if you're a student subjected to that, what youwould do is call the Family Policy Compliance Office andthe Secretary, keep in mind, has the cudgel of terminatingfunding behind the most informal telephone call orcorrespondence. Schools respond to what the Secretary ofEducation tells them to do with respect to FERPA, becausethey appreciate the sanctions that can be brought. That'sthe way the system has worked effectively since FERPA wasenacted.QUESTION: This office can't really give reliefto any individual, however, right, except to tell theschool not to release, wrongfully release records in thefuture, right?MR. ROBERTS: The focus of the office is invindicating what the statute provides. The statute isdirected to institutional behavior. The office reviewscomplaints in order to secure compliance with the properpolicy or practice.QUESTION: So all --MR. ROBERTS: It is -- it is --QUESTION: All you have to do is eliminate thepolicy, and everything that's happened in the past iswater over the dam --MR. ROBERTS: Because -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: -- and go and sin no more is what theSecretary says, right?MR. ROBERTS: Because the statute is directed toprospective compliance, not retrospective compensation forinjuries. That is a different focus than section . The --QUESTION: What do you do about the languagewhere it says, no funds shall be made available to aschool that effectively prevent, et cetera, the student --it says, of the right to inspect. It says of the right toinspect right in the first sentence, and then later on itsays in (b) no -- or later on it says that you have totell the parent in (e) of the rights accorded them bythis. I mean, that's the same question, but I want toget -- that others have asked, but I want to have veryclear in my mind the specific answer. It says, we won'tgive you any money if you interfere with the right.Now, that sounds as if there's a right, and thenthey underline it by saying, and you have to tell themabout the right, and what's -- your direct response tothat is what?MR. ROBERTS: The direct response is that -- youleft out words in the quote, which is that no funds shallbe made available to an institution that has a policy orpractice, and the question is, is Congress focusing on th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC protecting individual rights in, as the Court said inBlessing, an individual way, or are they addressing asystemic concern. The policy, or the focus on theSecretary -- this statute is directed to the Secretary. Don't make funds available, and it says, look at thepolicy or practice. It's not written the way title IX is,which would suggest the conferring of an individual right.Secondly, you're quoting from subsection (a). Subsection (b) does not talk about rights.And finally, the answer --QUESTION: Well, but Mr. Roberts, let me just besure I understand your answer. I have the same problemJustice Breyer does, because in g()(B) on page a, no funds and so forth shall be made available if theagency has a policy of denying or effectively prevents theparents of students the right to inspect. Now, is theright to inspect a Federal right?MR. ROBERTS: I think not, because --QUESTION: What is its source?MR. ROBERTS: The right to inspect is not anindependent and freestanding right. It is a descriptionof the sort of policy or practice that should prompt theSecretary of Education to withhold funds. In addition,this is not the provision that's at issue in this case. Subsection (b) -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: Well, I understand, but your initialsubmission is that this is not a rights-creating statute,it just -- but I don't know where the right comes fromthat they refer to in that section and also in -- on ainforming parents and students of rights under thissection.MR. ROBERTS: Under this section. I thinkCongress can use the term, rights, to refer to theopportunities that are provided to the parents andstudents and to the criteria that the Secretary ofEducation will look to in deciding funding, withoutthereby triggering coverage under section .Just like in Pennhurst, Congress used the wordrights repeatedly in --QUESTION: But do you think that they would havehad the rights described herein even if this statute hadnot been passed?MR. ROBERTS: No. There would not have been --no rights are conferred under this statute. What isconferred is discretion on the Secretary of Education towithhold funds depending upon a policy or practice. Indescribing the policy or practice that should triggeraction by the Secretary of Education, the statute refersto opportunities that must be provided to parents andstudents by that institution, but in doing so I don't th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC think Congress is necessarily triggering the right to adamages action.QUESTION: You use the word opportunity in thestatute wherever the statute used the word rights.MR. ROBERTS: Well, the statute doesn't use thewords right under subsection (b). The statute inPennhurst was called the Bill of Rights, and this Courtconcluded that that did not confer rights. The questionis whether Congress acted in a way that indicated anintent to confer an individually enforceable right.QUESTION: Mr. Roberts, you said that g(b)is not the section at issue here.MR. ROBERTS: No --QUESTION: What section is the one at issue?MR. ROBERTS: g(b) is the section at issue. Justice Stevens and Justice Breyer were quoting fromg(a). (a) refers to rights, (b) does not.QUESTION: Well, but (b) does say, the parentsof students the right to inspect and review.MR. ROBERTS: That's (a), Your Honor. That'sg(a)()(A).QUESTION: (b) is on a, I gather is whatyou're --QUESTION: Oh, (b) is on --MR. ROBERTS: (b) is on a, and it does not th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC refer to rights.QUESTION: Okay. Thank you.MR. ROBERTS: Thank you, Your Honor.QUESTION: Ms. Millett, we'll hear from you.ORAL ARGUMENT OF PATRICIA A. MILLETTON BEHALF OF THE UNITED STATES, AS AMICUS CURIAE,SUPPORTING THE PETITIONERSMS. MILLETT: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court:If I could begin by responding to JusticeKennedy's question about whether the Family PolicyCompliance Office is overworked, I will tell you that theydo work very hard, but they handle -- for a small staff,they handle an amazing amount of work, and have been doingso for years under this statute. They handle over pieces of correspondence a year, up to -- close to ofthings that are formally categorized as complaints as theygo through the investigation stages.QUESTION: Three letters a day, I guess.MS. MILLETT: Hmm?QUESTION: That's three letters a day.MS. MILLETT: Yes, but they also -- I'm not donewith my -- forgive me.(Laughter.)MS. MILLETT: They have about phone calls a th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC month, and well over , e-mails a year to --QUESTION: That's phone calls a day.(Laughter.)MS. MILLETT: That's right, and well over ,e-mails, and I think one of the reasons that thereisn't -- I mean, if you look at the legal landscape outthere, too, there hasn't been an enormous volume of actions, and that is because the Secretary has been verysuccessful, I think, in communicating and enforcing thisin an informal manner with the universities. Theuniversities wish to comply with this, and a lot of itis -- we've had years now to explicate what thisstatute means and to clarify what it means.Now, I fear that may change if this Court wereto recognize a action --QUESTION: What is your opinion about the ideathat this could be bifurcated, that it orders a right toinspect, that isn't going to be too tough, you let theperson look at the record, but there's a policy ofdisclosure. Does that make sense in terms of the statuteto say there's a private right under (a) but not under(b)? What's your opinion of that?MS. MILLETT: Okay, I'll answer that in twostages. It makes sense to bifurcate analysis as a matterof this Court's precedents, and specifically that's th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC exactly what the Court did in the Blessing case, which isyour most recent case up here.As a whole, we don't think it actually makessense to do so under this statute. The Court may notdecide that today because the only provision at issue issubsection (b), which does not refer to rights and focuseson policies or practices, but our position is that thereare three mutually reinforcing features here, both in (a)and (b), that show there is not a right under , andthat is -- even under (a), the very beginning of thesentence, and the operative command is that no funds shallbe distributed, or shall be distributed by the Secretaryof Education, and that is distinctive, unique languagethat this Court recognized, suggested in Cannon, and heldjust last term in Sandoval. It's not the type of languageCongress would use to create individual rights and inparticular, in , years after title IX was enacted,Congress chose different, distinctly different languagethat is very uncommon in the U.S. Code.QUESTION: If you go through the first threefactors listed in Blessing, Congress intended to benefitthe plaintiff, and it not be beyond judicial competence --MS. MILLETT: Not not be --QUESTION: -- and there must be an unambiguouslybinding obligation on the State, it would seem to me that th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC those are met here, and that you then have to go to thenext part of the test which is -- that creates apresumption that there is a right.MS. MILLETT: Well, as we said in our brief, wethink that the problem here is not that it's vague oramorphous, and it's not that there's not bindingobligations, which is the second two prongs of theBlessing test, but the first prong of the Blessing test,while phrased in terms of benefiting individuals, theCourt made clear in Blessing it's not just a generalinquiry if it's of some good to people, because alllegislation is of some good to somebody. It is whether itcreates individual entitlements, and that's where we thinkthis statute fails, a statute that --QUESTION: Well, with reference to the otherparts, the non-(b) parts of the statute, it does seem tome that it talks about the student and the parent in veryspecific terms, and it uses the term, rights.MS. MILLETT: Well, again, this Court made clearin Pennhurst that you can't just look at the word right inisolation. You have to put it in context, and there aresome important contexts I would like to stress, again evenup through subsection (a). The right begins with -- itbegins with the no-funds command. The focus is on apolicy, system-wide basis, and even when it talks about th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC rights, it's not an individual right, it is the -- theeducation records of the children -- I'm sorry, I'mreading from -- this is my appendix. I hate to confuse theCourt, to my brief, at a, where subsection (a) is, andthere has to be a policy of denying or effectivelypreventing the parents of students, plural, access tothese records, so we think that makes clear that you havethe same programmatic, system-wide rule here, and in factthe Secretary's position is that if you had one instanceof a failure to allow someone access to records duringnonpolicy or nonprogram-wide failure to allow access torecords, that would not violate FERPA. The command isstill -- it's written differently. I mean, the statutewas put on, was enacted on the floor of Congress. Itdidn't have long hearings where people sort of labored andstruggled over precise language, but it contains --QUESTION: May I ask you -- it's really the samequestion I asked Mr. Roberts, I suppose, but the firstsentence of g(a)()(A) refers to a policy of denyingaccess, denying the right to inspect and review educationrecords. In your view, is that right a federally createdright, or is that a right created by some other sourceand, if so, what is the source of the right?MS. MILLETT: I'm sorry, I'm having -- therewere too many numbers in that. g() -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: it's the first sentence of g onpage a of the blue brief, and the first, very firstsentence in the statute ends by saying the right toinspect and review the education records of theirchildren, and my question is whether you think that is afederally created right and, if not, what is the source ofthat right?MS. MILLETT: I think it's not -- I have twoanswers. First of all, whatever it is, it's a collective,program-wide, aggregated right, because it speaks in theplural, but secondly it;'s not -- I think it is used asMr. Roberts said here in a shorthand way, and thelegislative history says that one of the things they weretrying to enforce here is what Congress considered to bepre-existing moral or legal --QUESTION: Let me be sure you have my questionin mind. Do you think the right to which the statuterefers is a federally created right, or right with adifferent source?MS. MILLETT: I think what the statute iscreating there is a Federal overlay to protect pre -- aswas said in the legislative history on page of ourbrief, preexisting legal or moral right.QUESTION: So that if a school came back andsaid, in our State there's no such right, then the statute th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC would not apply?MS. MILLETT: Congress felt that when it saidpreexisting moral or legal rights, there was a sense ofCongress that this is a type of, not in a bright sensethat we use for purposes of actions, but thelegislative history was that Congress had a sense herethat this was something all individuals should have. Butthis --QUESTION: It is something they should have byreason of this statute, and therefore it's created, or bysome preexisting rule of law in some -- at some othersource?MS. MILLETT: Well, Congress' language waspreexisting moral or legal rights, and so I'm not surewhat one considers --QUESTION: If it's another source, it seems tome that the State or the institution could say, in thislocality there is no such right, and that would make thestatute totally inapplicable.MS. MILLETT: No, it wouldn't, because what youstill have is, once you take these funds you have aFederal overlay. Once you decide to take these funds yourprior law doesn't matter, which you have --QUESTION: It's a Federal overlay on anonexistent right, if I understand you correctly. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MS. MILLETT: Well, there's a -- there is --there's no doubt that there's a Federal level ofprotection here for privacy, and it's at an aggregated,collective system-wide level. It's not at the individuallevel of --QUESTION: But you use the word overlay,Mr. Roberts used the word obligation, you stay away fromthe term, right, in the statute. If we followed JusticeStevens' line of questions and concluded that there is aFederal right, would you necessarily -- would yourposition -- would that be fatal to your position, or wouldyou say it's a right that can be enforced through acomprehensive administrative scheme?MS. MILLETT: In two ways it wouldn't. It's notat issue in this case, and the second argument is that thenature of the -- whatever the nature of the right isthat's created here, Congress has created the very type ofscheme that it thinks is appropriate to enforce thesecollective, aggregated, system-wide rights that it createdhere, that in fact --QUESTION: Well, are you in effect saying, asMr. Roberts did, I think when he used the word,opportunity, that this is kind of, that the scheme of thissection is sort of an if-then sort of scheme. If you denythem the opportunity then -- and you do so on a systemic th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC basis, then the Secretary will take, or should takecertain action. Is that -- you are saying essentially thesame thing that he did.MS. MILLETT: Yes.QUESTION: So when you say there's a Federalright, you really mean there's an opportunity. If theopportunity is denied, then certain administrative actioncan be taken.MS. MILLETT: That's right. There's a Federalobligation -- to use Mr. Roberts' words, a Federalobligation, once you take these funds, to not have system-wide practices or policies that either deny access or, inthis case, disclose without consent, or an authorizedbasis for disclosure, and I think it's very -- again, veryunique language. You have -- you didn't have to look atthe two separately, but when you combined the no-fundslanguage and the focus on system-wide policies andpractices, that this Court made clear in Blessing thattype of aggregate language doesn't create individuallights -- rights, excuse me, and then you marry to thatthe fact that Congress has enacted an administrativescheme that is directly responsive to that type of system-wide overlay, there should not --QUESTION: Thank you, Ms. Millett.MS. MILLETT: thank you. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: Ms. Brinkmann, we'll hear from you.ORAL ARGUMENT OF BETH S. BRINKMANNON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTMS. BRINKMANN: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court:In FERPA, Congress gave parents the right toprevent the release of certain educational records. That's evident from Congress' choice of words and thestructure and history of the statute. There are at leastfive indications of that intent, including references torights under that provision, which I'll get to in amoment. It involves reading two sections together.First, in section -- this is on page a of thered brief, at the very top. In g(b)()(A), at the topof page a, Congress prohibited a recipient from having apolicy of releasing education records, quote, unless thereis written consent from the students' parents. Congressdid not say, unless there is a policy of obtaining writtenconsent. Congress thereby --QUESTION: Now, you're reading from a, Ms.Brinkmann? Whereabouts on page a?MS. BRINKMANN: At the very top, Your Honor,paragraph begins that no fund shall be given to anagency, and explains that has a policy or --QUESTION: -- see it either. I'm looking at th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC page --QUESTION: I think she said red brief.QUESTION: a of the red brief.MS. BRINKMANN: It's on page a of the --QUESTION: You're switching briefs on us.MS. BRINKMANN: I'm sorry.(Laughter.)MS. BRINKMANN: It's on page a of the bluebrief, if you prefer that. The problem is, there areother provisions in here I need to refer to. At the verytop of the page, it explains that no funds shall go to aschool that has a policy of releasing information, and atthe end of that first paragraph, quote, unless, and thenwe go to subparagraph (A), there is written consent fromthe students' parents.Congress did not say, unless the school has apolicy of obtaining consent.QUESTION: Yes, it does. It says no money willgo to an educational agency or institution which has apolicy or practice.MS. BRINKMANN: Unless.QUESTION: Unless.MS. BRINKMANN: Yes.QUESTION: Now, if you don't have a policy orpractice, the whole provision doesn't apply. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MS. BRINKMANN: If you don't have a policy orpractice of releasing information other than under thepreceding (b)(), you're correct, Your Honor.QUESTION: The whole thing wouldn't apply, so Idon't --MS. BRINKMANN: And (b)()(A) is -- (b)() saysyou can't -- a school can't have a policy of releasingwithout consent, other than to certain categories.QUESTION: It's a question of whether you readthe word policy, what policy? I think Justice Scalia isreading it as, what policy?MS. BRINKMANN: It's a policy --QUESTION: A policy of releasing records withoutwritten consent.MS. BRINKMANN: That's not what not -- that'snot what (b)()(A) says. That language is not -- that is,the without consent is in (b)(). It's not in (b)(). Itsays, has a policy or practice of releasing or providingaccess to any personally identifiable information, otherthan direct information, or is permitted under paragraph(). That's what paragraph () does. It permits alaundry list of releases where Congress said, we're notgoing to require parental consent.School educators need this information. (b)(),no problem, you get all of this information without th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC parental consent. Other than in those situations, if youhave policy or practice, then the school decides --QUESTION: I'm really not following you. Whatdo you think the unless goes to? I take it that theunless goes to, no funds shall be made available.MS. BRINKMANN: Yes.QUESTION: Unless.MS. BRINKMANN: Yes.QUESTION: Okay.MS. BRINKMANN: So --QUESTION: But that whole provision, no fundsshall be made available, only applies to an educationalagency or institution which has a policy or practice ofreleasing.MS. BRINKMANN: Absolutely.QUESTION: If it doesn't have a policy orpractice of releasing, it's entirely exempt from thatprovision.MS. BRINKMANN: That's correct, Your Honor,because they did not -- Congress did not intend to goafter inadvertent releases.For example, the school makes a decision if theyare going to have a policy of releasing information to ascholarship program, or to the press, and if they have apolicy release, they have to abide by this very specific th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC requirement in (b)()(A).QUESTION: Well --MS. BRINKMANN: They may choose not to. It'sparallel to the directory information provision in thestatute.Congress also said, you, school, can make achoice. If you want to release things like names,classes, awards receipts under the directory informationprovision, you can make that decision. You have to givenotice at the beginning of the year, and you have to giveparents enough time to respond whether or not they want toopt out of that.Same thing under (b)()(A). If you as auniversity decide that you want to have a policy orpractice of releasing things beyond what is alreadyauthorized under (b)(), which includes other teachers,emergency situations, Federal officials, all kinds ofsituations, then you have to abide by (b)()(A), and youcannot have that policy or practice unless there iswritten consent from the students' parents.QUESTION: But it appears to be a scheme, atleast as I read it, just directed at when Federal fundsare going to be given to a school, and you determine thatby whether the school has a particular policy or practice,and the remedy is withholding funds. I don't see how you th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC extrapolate from this statute the intent to create aprivate cause of action for damages.MS. BRINKMANN: Your Honor, in addition to thelanguage, unless there is, our position is, because thereis that requirement, unless there is written consent fromthe parent, Congress intended to directly benefit theparents and to say to the parents in a particularsituation, you can say no, I don't want this informationreleased. Parents may have different decisions based onwhether or not they think it will benefit the child.QUESTION: But they can't do that, because Imean, if the information is released and the parent says,I object, the institution can say, oh, I'm sorry, that wasjust a mistake. We don't have that policy. You know, wereleased it. Too bad. We don't have the policy. Sothere is no absolute right on the part of the parent toprevent it.MS. BRINKMANN: There is, Your Honor, becausethe -- if they do have a policy and practice, it's akin tothe standard that the Court adopted in Gebser, and hereCongress did that. They said, we are not going to chargeevery institution with inadvertent release, but to theextent, as under Monell, if there is requisite knowledgeby the school that they have a policy or practice, they'reintending to be releasing information, they are charged th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC with getting the consent from the parents, and again Ihave to --QUESTION: The consequence, if they don't getconsent from the parents, the express consequence is nofunds shall be made available.MS. BRINKMANN: Which is the commonality in allof the Spending Clause cases that have come before theCourt, Your Honor.QUESTION: Ms. Brinkmann, but not the emphasis,as was pointed out by Mr. Roberts. Title IX, title VIsay, no person shall be, and this starts out with nofunds. Do you have any statutes, any spending statutesthat uses the no funds shall, instead of no person shallbe denied, where this Court has either implied a privateright of action, or has found a right which can thenbe used to enforce?MS. BRINKMANN: Well, Your Honor, there's neverbeen a formula. None of the statutes where the Court hasfound a right has included that language, Wright, Wilde,or Blessing, none of them have the language the petitionerand the Solicitor General now urges.In fact, in footnote of the Suter opinion theCourt contrasted the language where they were not findinga right to a statute that, quote, said, no Federal paymentmay be made under this part, and they said, now, there's a th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC specific requirement, so there's no formula. None of thecourts have had this language that they're now urging. The Suter opinion refers to this type of language as beingmore specific, and it doesn't as a practical matter makeany difference what these Spending Clause statutes do say. If you receive Federal funds, you have to abide by theseconditions.QUESTION: I'm not sure that I gave you myquestion precisely. There are title VI, title IX,statutes that use the formula, no person shall, and underthose statutes a right of action has been implied, andwhat I'm asking is, is there any statute with thelanguage, no funds shall, where a right of action has beenimplied?MS. BRINKMANN: No statute of that language hasever come before the Court, Your Honor, and all I'm sayingis, there are many other cases in which statutes have beenfound to accord rights under section that don't havethat no-student-shall language.QUESTION: What about -- you say, you agreethere is no example of a case we've decided where the termis no funds shall?MS. BRINKMANN: That statute has not come beforethe Court. I have to say in the title IX and title VIcontext, it was a broader inquiry of whether or not there th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC was implied cause of action, but in Your Honor's opinion,in Suter, in footnote , it does refer to this type ofstatute and suggests that that is a direct requirement.QUESTION: If I may --QUESTION: Well, where is the statute -- thefootnote you're quoting speaks in terms of, or addressesthe no funds shall?MS. BRINKMANN: The precise language in thatstatute which is quoted in that footnote says that noFederal funds payments shall be made, Your Honor. It's onpage of the opinion, and it's citing U.S.C. (e)that says, quote, for example, no Federal payment may bemade under this part, and then it goes on and it says thatthat is an example of more precise requirements ascontrasted to the statute in Suter.If I may, there are four other provisions I'dlike to speak to in addition to the language, unless thereis. In addition, again on page a under (b)()(A), it'snot just unless there is written consent. That consenthas to have included a provision of a copy of what isintended to be released by the school to the parents. Theparents have to be told why the information is beingreleased, and the parents have to know to whom it is beingreleased. That is exactly what the Court referenced inBlessing about Congress addressing the particular need of th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC the individuals who they're according the rights to.They knew that parents were going to be able toneed to know why the information was provided, exactlywhat it is, and to whom. Parents may think it's fine torelease financial information, personal information abouttheir household for a scholarship or an honorary awardpurpose, but not, for example, to a newspaper story aboutlow income families in the school district.Third, the history of the -- before I go to thehistory, actually, I want to explain another provision ofthe statute which I think --QUESTION: Two more. You have two more coming. You said you had four.MS. BRINKMANN: Yes. Yes. Actually, I'm goingto jump in, though, because this responds to questions ofthe Court about the use of the word, right. If you couldturn to page a in the red brief, subsection (d),g(d), is entitled, "Students Rather than Parents'Permission or Consent." That clearly references thepermission or consent under (b)()(A). That is where thispermission or consent is referenced in FERPA, and itexplains there the purpose of it, to explain that when astudent becomes , as the student here was, or attendinga school of higher education, the permission or consentrequired, and the rights accorded to the parents of the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC students, shall be required in accordance -- (b)()(A)gives the student, requires permission or consent, andthen gives the right to deny permission or consent. Thatis a direct reference to the rights under (b)()(A). Moreover, as members of the --QUESTION: So we have right, the word right usedin (b) as well as in (a), or at least with reference to(b) as well as with reference to (a).MS. BRINKMANN: Much more precisely, Your Honor,here, because they are specifically talking not just about(b) generically, but about permission or consent.QUESTION: Why does right refer to (b)? I mean,rights could refer to (a).MS. BRINKMANN: Because the whole provision of(d) refers to permission nor consent, Your Honor. There isno permission or --QUESTION: No, it says permission or consent ofand the rights.MS. BRINKMANN: Yes.QUESTION: So --MS. BRINKMANN: Yes, but --QUESTION: (b), the first is this, and the otheris that.MS. BRINKMANN: But if you look at the structureof the provision, they are referring to the actual th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC permission or consent, because that's when you would needto know, do I go to the -- when I -- for a collegestudent, do I go to the --QUESTION: The right to inspect after he's isa right that goes to the student, not to the parent.MS. BRINKMANN: But Your Honor, this isspecifically addressing the permission or consentprovision. You can tell by the heading of subsection (d).Moreover, under (e), as Your Honor pointed outbefore, the school is obligated to inform parents orstudents of their rights under the regulations promulgatedby the Secretary of Education. One of the rights they arerequired to inform parents and students about is theconsent --QUESTION: Ms. Brinkmann --MS. BRINKMANN: -- required there.QUESTION: Where does it say that? Where doesit say that?MS. BRINKMANN: It would be in the regulations,Your Honor.QUESTION: In the regulations, okay, fine.QUESTION: Even if we say that you met the threeBlessing standards, Blessing still kind of said in thatopinion, there's something more, and the more is whatseems to be the strongest emphasis of the case that Mr. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Robert and Ms. Millett made, and that is that Congresscreated an enforcement scheme that they meant to be it,that would be incompatible with individual enforcement.MS. BRINKMANN: Actually that, ironically, leadsme to my third point, in fact. When you look at thishistory, Congress clearly was addressing the interest ofparents in controlling dissemination of information abouttheir children. This is a paradigm example of what theywere worrying about, information that's gossip,unsubstantiated, never had a chance to respond to it,could have a devastating effect on a student's career.Under petitioner's interpretation --QUESTION: But the issue isn't whether they wereworried about that. The issue is whether they wanted toeliminate that worry by having the Secretary police thething, or by having lawsuits to vindicate private rights.MS. BRINKMANN: Yes, Your Honor, and I think --QUESTION: I don't see how you advance the ballat all by saying what they were worried about wasprecisely this thing. I mean, I think Mr. Roberts wouldstipulate that.MS. BRINKMANN: Well, it was the point thatJustice Ginsburg brought up before, which actually I thinkresponds to your inquiry. Under petitioner'sinterpretation, if this student had found out that this th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC information was about to be released, information he couldprove was false, he would have no avenue to prevent therelease of that. There was no method at the Department ofEducation to provide any individual remedy, let alone ourTRO, and I think that that's even magnified by --QUESTION: It may not be the ideal remedy. Itmay not be the best remedy, and one of the anomalies herethat wouldn't be present in title IX is working through, where you must have a State action pegged. Now,here, it happened that there was a connection with aState, with a State officer. The conversation was betweenprivate institutions and State officer, but suppose wehave two schools, and one is about to give a record to anewspaper, and the other is about to do the same thing,and one is the State university, and one is the privateuniversity.Under your scheme, the private university wouldbe home free, it wouldn't be subject to liability,but the public would, and I think that would be a strangescheme for Congress to enact.MS. BRINKMANN: Your Honor, actually it's muchmore complicated than that. It's just not whether or notsuits are available against public or private, because, ofcourse, State universities are often deemed arms of theState, so they're not subject to suit at all. The only th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC action that can be brought against a State official is forinjunctive relief. Moreover, most private elementary andsecondary schools, as was pointed out in the amicus briefin support of respondent, don't receive Federal funding,so there are a lot of different ways in which there may bedifferent actions, but that is because of EleventhAmendment --QUESTION: Well, maybe that shows that really doesn't fit this pattern, because why -- even, whyshould certain kinds of institutions be stopped, andothers not, from doing the same thing?MS. BRINKMANN: Because the relationship ofstudents at the private school is different than arelationship with a public school. A relationship of astudent at public school is defined by State law. Itis -- and that's what an action under is, it's undercolor of State law.QUESTION: But doesn't the student have thesame, whether we're going to call it right or opportunity,in the private school with respect to records, like aprivate university?MS. BRINKMANN: Only if the school receivesFederal funds. Secondary and elementary --QUESTION: Which an overwhelming number ofschools do. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MS. BRINKMANN: Only universities, Your Honor. Actually, the amicus brief of the ACLU cites a letter fromthe Department of Education explaining that the vastmajority of private schools, elementary and secondary, donot receive Federal funding, but if I may, I think thatthe important point here is, the relationship of a studentwith a private school is different. There is acontractual relationship there, and there may very well beother remedies against a private school arising out of --for example, here in Exhibit at the trial, the handbook,Gonzaga promised to abide by FERPA and said, we will notrelease information without your consent. There could bea contractual action there. You can't have those kinds ofactions against a school, public school. That's whyCongress created section . There was --QUESTION: Ms. Brinkmann, can I come back toyour assertion that there is no right to an injunction,you can't get an injunction under this act, but you can'tget an injunction, even if we accept your theory of theact. You cannot get an injunction unless you show notonly that they're about to release this information, butalso that this is their practice or policy.MS. BRINKMANN: Absolutely, Your Honor.QUESTION: Isn't that right?MS. BRINKMANN: Absolutely, and -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: So what good does that do you? Youhave to go in --MS. BRINKMANN: Because in this case you neededthe testimony of one witness --QUESTION: Which suggests that you're notvindicating a private right of yours, that somehow whatCongress is concerned with is the existence of a policy orpractice that it doesn't like, even though --MS. BRINKMANN: With all due respect --QUESTION: Even though you're being harmed bythis release, under your theory you can't get aninjunction against it.MS. BRINKMANN: I respectfully disagree.QUESTION: Unless you show that there's a policyor practice.MS. BRINKMANN: You absolutely could get aninjunction, Your Honor.QUESTION: How so?MS. BRINKMANN: Because you needed the testimonyof one witness in this case who said, we do this all ofthe time. We disclose information to the State agencybefore --QUESTION: You need that witness, and if youdon't have such a witness, you cannot get an injunction,isn't that right? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MS. BRINKMANN: That's right. That's a matterof proof, and Your Honor, what -- I just have to emphasizethat what the provision here goes to with the policy andpractice in (b)()(A) is Monell, Gebser, it is Congresssaying, we're not going to charge every university withthis requirement. If they have a policy or practice, ifthis decision is made at a high enough level that theywould have requisite knowledge, that's the only place inwhich this section liability would be triggered.QUESTION: Is there -- can I ask you onequestion on the practicality? Assuming all the languageis ambiguous, et cetera, and I would like you to removethis image from my mind, the image that I have in my mindwas an earlier case argued here in this Court, and as aresult of the lawyer's argument in that case I focused onthe language, educational record, and I realized it's aclose question, perhaps, as to whether those words doinclude things like a gold star the third grade teachermight give out in class, or the statement, you're going toget a bad mark on your report card.I suddenly realized it's highly ambiguous, andthe lawyer said that he had been cross-examining theschool officials on this and related questions in thecourtroom for several hours, I thought. I mean, at leastfor a time, and suddenly it occurred to me, how are they th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC teaching or running the school district, and the imagethat came up in my courtroom was of private actions allover the place trying to bring into court school officialsto interpret language which really doesn't explain itself.Therefore, a need for centralizedadministration, which of course would be harmful to someparents, but counterbalanced by the need for effectiveschool administration, and those were the things in mymind, and that's the image it called up, and I want you toreply to that, because I think that's at the heart ofthis, at least the practical part.QUESTION: I think I have at least five answers. I haven't counted them off. First of all, I think it'simportant to realize that that's one of the reasons youhave the particularized examination in Blessing. We arenot saying there's a right under every one of theseprovisions, but if you look at (b)()(A), unless there isthe specific requirement, the history of it, and also ifyou compare it to the other release provisions that do nothave this kind of right, they say you have to notify theparent, or you have to make the person who's getting itpromise to destroy it when they're done with it. Theydon't have this right.So if you look at this particular right, thenyou step back and you realize what the Department of th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Education has been saying. Schools comply with thisstatute. It is clear and simple. You give them a copy,you ask the parents -- tell the parents why and to whom itis going.In the years since this statute has beenenacted, there has been no flood of litigation, despitethe fact that the Second Circuit, I think years ago,held that there was a section cause of action, theFifth Circuit more than years ago. There is no Federalcourt of appeals that has taken petitioner's position. I think in the past or years there have been at leasttwo more circuits. People comply.QUESTION: But Ms. Brinkmann, if your -- if theforce -- if we accept the force of your argument, then Ithink we'd have to say, well, Congress really didn't needto bother with the centralized administration provision,and yet Congress did put it in, and it seems to me themost likely reason that it put it in is the reason thatJustice Breyer just gave.MS. BRINKMANN: I think --QUESTION: So you may have made a good argumentfor getting rid of it, but as long as it's there, it seemsto have the same lesson that his question suggests.MS. BRINKMANN: I think that the FPCO officeserves a admirably meritorious role. It answers countless th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC numbers of phone calls and inquiries about this, but itsown interpretation of its role I think is reallyillustrated by footnote in our brief, which is on page.In , when FPCO changed regulations, itexplained that it wasn't going to require schools even toafford them access to education records informationbecause they don't go out and investigate.What more accurately reflects theirinvestigation is allowing schools to submit reports -- andthis is quotes -- since its inception, FPCO has notconducted any on-site visits to resolve complaints. Rather, it has resolved complaints through correspondenceand telephone calls with the affected parties, and thatworks in the vast majority of cases.In the limited number of cases that are broughtunder FERPA in the Federal courts, Federal and Statecourts since its enactment, this is the only reported casethat anyone has located for punitive damages, and the onlyother case that had any damages was $ of nominal damagesthat we've been able to --QUESTION: But that may be a very good argumentfor saying that what Congress had in mind, in effect, inconfining the enforcement the way it seems to have done bythis exclusive authority provision works in the general th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC run of cases, and therefore there is not a good reason tosay that Congress probably would have wanted this privateright of action with the punitive damages.MS. BRINKMANN: I think it works generally, andthen you look at the Blessing inquiry to see if Congressintended to create a right, they intended to create aright from all of those reasons I said. Once you getthere, it's clear, it's mandatory --QUESTION: But we're at the -- we're beyondstage , , --MS. BRINKMANN: It's -- yes.QUESTION: -- and we're saying, okay, are thereparticular reasons to think that they did not.MS. BRINKMANN: Then it's presumptivelyavailable, a section action. It's not an impliedcause of action. Congress created and said, if youhave a Federal right, you can enforce it in court. It isagainst that presumption the petitioner has to carry theheavy burden that this Court has found met only twice, inthe Sea Clammers case and Smith v. Robinson.QUESTION: Why isn't the theory of centralizedadministration, spelled out in the statute, with theSecretary's office doing this thing, why doesn't thatovercome the presumption?MS. BRINKMANN: Because the presumption has to th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC be overcome by an enforcement scheme, an administrativescheme that supplants the section that has someaddress for a private remedy.QUESTION: Well, certainly it doesn't have to bea duplicate of section , or there would be no point insaying it supplants it.MS. BRINKMANN: Absolutely, Your Honor, but herethere is absolutely no availability for any remedy for anindividual injury, and Sea Clammers --QUESTION: Ms. Brink --QUESTION: Well now, wait a minute. As Iunderstand it, people who are aggrieved by some practicein the schools can get a hold of the Secretary's officeand -- by a phone call and perhaps by the Secretary'saction in saying, either you fly right or we'll cut offfunds, they do have a remedy.MS. BRINKMANN: Not under (b)()(A), if theyhave released records. There's no provision for any kindof damages compensation for an individual, and the Courthas looked at that role of the administrative scheme inits line of cases, deciding whether or not it wassufficient to supplant this congressionally created rightunder section . In the two cases --QUESTION: Ms. Brinkmann, can you give us oneother example of a right that depends upon whether the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC person allegedly violating the right has done it before?MS. BRINKMANN: Yes, Your Honor.QUESTION: Or has a policy or practice of doingit? For example, you know, your right to be free fromunreasonable searches and seizures.QUESTION: I suppose you're going to tell usabout the Monell case.MS. BRINKMANN: I was going to cite the Monellcase. I think that's --QUESTION: No, no, no.MS. BRINKMANN: -- exactly what the Monell caseis about.QUESTION: That depends on whom you can sue. That depends upon whom you can assert the right against,but against the individual you can assert that right,whether there's a policy or practice or not. That'ssimply the question of whether you can reach themunicipality, but I cannot think of a single other rightin the world which only exists as a right when somebody isa two-time loser, or has a policy, or practice.MS. BRINKMANN: Your Honor, a policy or practicemay not have injured anyone in the past. They may have awritten policy in saying, we're going to release thesethings to --QUESTION: Maybe, but it's a very strange right. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC I don't know of any --MS. BRINKMANN: This is the fact --QUESTION: I mean, I have another rightsquestion, too, but I -- you're relying on the use of theright, of the term, right, in the statute. What do youdo -- what do you conceive to be the -- it's on the --it's on page a of the blue brief.It refers to the privacy rights of students. Itsays that no funds shall be available, blah, blah, blah,unless in accordance with regulations of the Secretary,the student or parents has a right to challenge thecontent of each student's education record in order toensure that the records are not inaccurate, misleading, orotherwise in violation of the privacy rights of students. Is that also the creation of a Federal privacy right?MS. BRINKMANN: I don't believe so, Your Honor. I have to --QUESTION: Does it refer to existing Stateprivacy rights, or just sort of a moral notion of whatthings should be kept private?MS. BRINKMANN: Well, I have to emphasize, ourstatutory argument about rights is not based solely on theg(d) referenced rights. It's based on the, unlessthere is consent from the parents, and on thisparticularized consent required, giving parents a copy, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC telling them to whom am I -- that is what demonstratesunder the Blessing standard it was intended to benefitparents and to address their specific needs to protecttheir children from information they have never beeninformed about, as in this case, that destroyed thisperson's career.That's exactly what Congress was aiming at, andwithout -- in petitioner's position there was absolutelynothing that anyone can do to protect that right. TheDepartment of Education cannot give individual relief, andthis -- anybody will be barred from going into court. Fortunately, this doesn't happen. It's simple. Schoolscomply with it. This is an exceptionally unusual andegregious case.QUESTION: Well, Ms. Brinkmann, there haven'tbeen other cases where substantial monetary damages andpunitive damages have been available, and maybe that's theconcern. I mean, it's -- this is a person who did have aright. There was a contract right, and there was thedeformation, but by bringing into the picture, thedamages are increased for the same conduct, and you canpick up counsel fees.MS. BRINKMANN: It's not the same conduct, YourHonor, if I may. First of all, deformation would notnecessarily cover cases that involved truthful th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC information, but in this particular case, if I could justmake clear, what I think -- first of all, this involvedcompensatory damages, just not punitive, but of coursethis Court's ruling will affect injunctive actions also,but in this case, because this information was released atthe very outset of this investigation, it affected theschool's decision about whether or not to issue anaffidavit to my client.There was disagreement -- even as it stood,without any information from my client to say this wasfalse, there was disagreement amongst the school officialsabout whether or not to issue this, and plaintiff'sexhibit has a chronology. The people at the school whowere in favor of releasing, of not giving the affidavitgot State officials to contact the dean and --QUESTION: Thank you, Ms. Brinkmann.Mr. Roberts, you have minutes remaining.REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF JOHN G. ROBERTS, JR.ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERSMR. ROBERTS: Thank you, Your Honor.Two statutes enacted within years of eachother: title IX, no person shall be subject todiscrimination; FERPA, no funds shall be made available toan institution that has a policy or practice described inthe statute, and the Secretary shall deal with violations, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC and the Secretary shall do that at one place, becausewe're worried about multiple interpretations causingconfusion.Now, that is two -- those are two very differentways of approaching a problem. Under this Court'sprecedents the former, the title IX model confersprivately enforceable rights. The latter does not. Whywould Congress proceed differently in dealing witheducational institutions in those two different contexts? Because of the appreciation that the regulation of studentrecords from kindergarten through graduate school directlyimplicated pedagogical concerns.It would have been a radical notion, even in, for Congress to confer individual rights on everystudent from kindergarten to graduate school in a way thatwould directly implicate the day-to-day running of schoolsacross the country, and there's no evidence to suggestthat that's what Congress had in mind.The evidence is the opposite. It proceededgingerly. It said, this is directed to the Secretary. It's directed to policies and practice. Who's going todeal with violations? Mr. Secretary, deal withviolations, and do it in one place. Four months afterFERPA was enacted, in response to what was called by thesponsors the perplexity and frustration it had caused -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC four months -- they added the second sentence tosubsection (g) on page a of the blue brief, and thatsaid, don't do any of this, Mr. Secretary, in any of theregional offices. The reason? We're afraid of multipleinterpretation.Well, multiple interpretations caused byregional offices, there's a slight problem there, are,after all, answerable to the Secretary. Individualprivate plaintiffs suing in State and Federal court aroundthe country, any one of these million students coveredby the Federal funds requirement, that would give rise tomultiple interpretations, and it is implausible tosuppose --QUESTION: They're answerable to us, presumably. We could take care of all of that, right?(Laughter.)MR. ROBERTS: Well, it is implausible to supposethat the same Congress that was so worried about multipleinterpretations of the law from the regional offices ofone Department would have been perfectly content and, infact, intended to confer the right for every one of million students to go into court in a action.CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: Thank you, Mr.Roberts.MR. ROBERTS: Thank you, Your Honor. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: The case is submitted.(Whereupon, at : a.m., the case in theabove-entitled matter was submitted.) th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC A abide : : : : able : : : about :,, : : :, :, : :, : : : : : :,, : : : :,,, :,, : : :, : : : : : : above-entitled : : absolute : absolutely : :, : : : : accept : : access :,,, : : : accomplish : accord : accordance : : accorded : : according : accurately : ACLU : across : : act : :,, :, acted : action :,, : : : : : :, : : :, : : :, : : : :, : : actions : : : : : : actual : actually : :, :, : : : added : addition : : : :, address : : addresses : addressing : : : : adjudicate : : adjudication : administration : :, : administrative : : :, : :, admirably : adopted : advance : affect : affected : : affidavit :, afford : afraid : after : : : : : again : :, : : : against : : :, : agency : : : : : : :, : : aggregate : aggregated : :, aggrieved : ago :, agree : aiming : akin : allegation : allegedly : allow :, allowing : almost : alone : already : amazing : ambiguous :, Amendment : amicus : : : : : amongst : amorphous : amount : analysis : anomalies : another : : : answer : : :, : answerable :, answers : : : anybody : anyone : : : anyway : appeals : appear : APPEARANCES : appears : appendix : : applies : apply : : : appreciate : appreciation : approaching : appropriate : April : argued : argument : :,,, :, : : : : : : :, : : : arising : arms : around : arsenal : art : aside : asked : : asking : assert :, assertion : Assistant : assume : Assuming : attending : attention : authority : : : authorized : : : availability : available : : :, :, :, : : : : : : avenue : award : awards : away : a.m : : : B b : : : :, :,, :,, : :, : : :,,,,, :,,, : : :,,,,,, : : : back : : : bad : : ball : barred : based : :, basis : :, becomes : before : : : : :, : : : : : begin : beginning : : begins :, : behalf :,, :,,, : : : : behavior : : behind : : being : : :, : believe : benefit : :, : benefiting : best : BETH : : : between : : beyond : : : bifurcate : bifurcated : bill : : binding : : blah :,, Blessing : : :, :,, : : : :, : th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC : : blue : : : : both : : bother : Breyer : : : brief : : :, : :,, : : : : : : briefs : bright : bring : : bringing : Brink : Brinkmann : : :,,,, :,,,, :,,, :, :,, : :, :,, :, : : :,,, : :,,, :,, : :, :,,, :, :,, : :,, : :,, :,, :,,, :,, :, : broader : brought : : : : : burden : C C : : call :, : : called : : : calls : : :, came : : : Cannon :, : card : care : : career : : carry : case : : : : :, : : : : :, :, :, : :,, :, :, :, cases :, : : :, : :, :, categories : : categorized : cause :, : : : : : caused : : causing : centralized : : : : certain :, : : : certainly : : : cetera : : : : challenge : chance : change : changed : charge : : charged : Chief :, : : : : child : children : : : : choice : : choose : chose : chronology : Circuit :, circuits : cite : cites : citing : Clammers : : clarify : class : classes : Clause : : clear : : :, : : : : : clearly : : client :, close : : Code : : coextensive : collective : :, college : colloquial : color : combined : come : : :, : comes : : coming : command : : : commonality : communicating : comparable : compare : compensation : : compensatory : competence : complainants : complaint :,, complaints : :, : : : :, compliance :, : : : : : : complicated : complies : comply : :, : comprehensive : conceive : concern :, : : concerned : : concerns : concluded : : conclusion : condition : conditioned : conditions : conduct :, conducted : confer :, : : conferred :, conferring : confers : confining : confuse : confusion : Congress :,, :,,, : :,, :, : : : :, :, :,, : : :,,, : : : :,,, : : : : :, : :, : : : : :, : : :, : :,, : congressionally : connection : : consent :,, : :, :, :,,, : : : :, :, :,,, :,,,, :,, : :, consequence :, considered : considers : contact : contains : contend : content : : context : : : contexts : : contract : contractual :, contrast : contrasted : : controlling : conversation : copy : : : correct :, : : correctly : correspondence : : : counsel : counted : counterbalanced : countless : country : : : course :, : : : court :, : :, :,, :, :,, : :,,, : : : : :,, :, : : : : : :,, :, : : th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC : : : :, : : :, courtroom : : courts : : :, Court's : : : : cover : coverage : : covered : create :, : : : : :, created :, :, : : :, : : : : creates : :, creating : : creation : criteria : : cross-examining : cudgel : curiae : : : cut : D d : : : : dam : damages : : : :,, : : :,, : day :, : day-to-day : deal :,,, :, : :, dealing : : : dealt : deal-with-violations : dean : decide : : : decided : decides : deciding :, : : decision : : : : decisions : deemed : defined : deformation :, demonstrates : denied : : deny : : : denying : :,, Department : : : : : : depending : depends : : :, described : : describing : description : despite : destroy : destroyed : determine : devastating : developmentally : difference :, : different : : :, : : :,, : :, differently : : direct :, : : : directed : : : : : :, directly : : :, directory :, disabled : disagree : disagreement :, disburse : disbursement : disclose : : disclosure : : : : disclosures : discretion : discrimination : : dissemination : distinction :, : distinctive : distinctly : : distributed :, district : : divulged : Doe : : doing : : : : : done : : : : doubt : down : due : duplicate : during : D.C :,,, E e : :, : : : each : : earlier : : education : :, : : :,, : :, : : : : : : : : : : educational :,, : : : : : educators : effect : : : effective : effectively : : : : egregious : either : : : : : elementary :, : Eleventh : eliminate : : emergency : emphasis : : emphasize : : enact : enacted :, : : : : : : : enactment : end : ends : enforce : : : : : enforceable : : enforced : enforcement : : :, : : enforcing : enormous : enough : : : ensure : ensured : entire : entirely : entitled : : entitlements : ESQ :,, :,,, essentially : establish : : established :, et : : : : even : : :, : : : : :, : : : ever : every : : : : : everything : evidence : :, evident : exactly : : : : : except : exceptionally : exclusive : : excuse : exempt : exhibit : : existence : existing : exists : explain :, : explained : : explaining : explains : : : explicate : express : extent : extrapolate : : examination : example : : : : : :, : : : : : th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC e-mails :, F fact :, : : : : : : : : : : factors : fails : failure :, false : : families : Family : : : : : far :, fatal : favor : fear : features : Federal :, : : : : :, :, :,, :, : : :, :, : : :, : : :, federally : :, fees : felt : FERPA : :,, : :, : : : : : : : field : Fifth : files : finally : : financial : find :, finding : fine : : first : : : : : : : :,,, : : : : : : fit : five : : flood : floor : fly : focus : : : : : focused : : focuses : focusing : follow : followed : following : footnote : :,, : force :, forgive : formally : former : formula : :, forth : Fortunately : found :, : : : four : : : : FPCO : :, free : : freestanding : from :, :, : : : : : : :,,,, : : : :, :, : : : : : : :, : :, : frustration : fund : funding : : : : : : : funds :, :,, :, : : :,, : : : : : : :, :, :,, :,, :, : : : : : future : G g : :, :, : : : gather : gave : : : Gebser : : general : : : : : generally : generically : getting : : : gingerly : Ginsburg : give : : :, : : : : : : given : : gives :, giving : : go :,, : : : : :,, : : :, : : : goes : :, : : : going : : : : : : : :, : :, : : :,, : : gold : Gonzaga : : : good :, : : : : gossip : gotten : grade : graduate :, guess : : g() : H hand : handbook : handle : : :,, handled : happen : happened : : : happens : harassed : hard : hardly : harmed : harmful : hate : having :, : : :, heading : hear : : : hearings : heart : heavy : held : : helps : high : higher : highly : history :, : : :, : : Hmm : hold : home : Honor : : : : : : :, :, : : :, :,, : : : : : : : :, : : : : honorary : Honor's : hours : household : I idea : ideal : identifiable : if-then : illustrated : image :, :, immediate : implausible :, implicate : implicated : implied :, : :, : : important : : : : impressive : inaccurate : inadvertent : : inapplicable : inception : include : th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC included : : includes : including : income : incompatible : increased : independent : indicated : indications : indirectly : individual : :, : : :, : : : :,, : : : : : : : :, : : : : individually : individuals : : : inexpensive :, inform :, informal :, : : information : :,,,, : :, :,, : : :, :, :, :, : : : :,, informed : informing : initial : injunction :,,, :, : injunctive : : injured : injuries : injury : inquiries : inquiry : : : : inspect :, :,, : : : : : instance : instances : : instead : : institution :, : : : : : : : : :, : institutional : :, : institutions :, : : : : intend :,,, : intended : : : : : : : : intending : intent : : : interest : interfere : interpret : interpretation :, : : interpretations : :,, investigate :, : : investigation : : : involved : : involves : ironically : isolation : issue : :,, : : :, :, IX : :, : : : : : : : : J John :, :, :, : JR : :, : : judicial : : jump : jurisprudence : just : : :, : : : : : : : : : : : :, Justice : :, : :, :, : : : : : : : K keep : : Kennedy's : kept : kind : : : : : kindergarten :, kinds : : : knew : know : : : : : : : : knowledge : : L labored : landscape : language : : :,, : : :,, : : : :, :,,,, :, :, : large : last : later :, latter : : Laughter : : : : laundry : law :, :, : lawsuits : : lawyer : lawyer's : leads : League : : least : : : : : : : : left : legal : :, :, legislation : legislative :, : less :, lesson : let : : : : letter : letters :, level :,, : liability : : : lights : like : : : : : : : : : :, likely : : limited : line : : list : listed : litigation : locality : located : long : : look :,, :,, : : : : :, : : : : :, : looked : : looking : looks : : loser : lot : : : low : M made : : : :, : :, : :, :, :, : : : : magnified : Maine : majority : : make : : : :, : mandate : mandatory : manner : many : : mark : marry : matter : : : : : : matters : may : : : : : : : : : :,, : :, : :, : : :, : maybe : : : : mean : : : : : makes :,, : : : : : : : th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC : : : : : : means :, meant : members : : meritorious : met : : : method : might : : : Millett : : :,,,,, :, : :, : :, :,, :, :,,, : million :, mind : : : : :, : : : minute : minutes : misleading : mistake : model : : moment : : Monell : : :,, monetary : money : : month : months : : moral :, :, : more : : :, : : : :, : :, : :, : Moreover : : : most : : : : : much : : multiple : :,,, municipality : muscle : must : : : mutually : : N N :, : names : nature :, necessarily : : : : need : : : : : : : :, : needed :, needs : never : : : newspaper : : : next : nominal : non : none :, : nonexistent : nonpolicy : nonprogram-wide : nothing : : notice : notify : notion : : nowhere : no-funds : : no-student-shall : number : : : : numbers : : : : : : : : : outset : over : : :, : : overcome : : overlay : :, : : overwhelming : overworked : : own : O P O : : object : obligated : obligation : : : :, obligations : obtaining : : occurred : odd : off : : office :, : :, : : :,, : : : : officer :, offices :,, official : officials : : : :, often : oh : : okay : : : : : once :, : : one : : :, : : : : : : : :,, : :, : :, : :, :,, only : : : : : : : : :, : : on-site : operation : operative : opinion :, : : :, : : opportunities :, opportunity : : :, :, opposite : opt : oral : :,, : : : order :, : : orders : other :, : : : : :,, : : : : : : : : : : : : : others : : : otherwise : out : : : : :, P : page : : :, :,, :,,, :, : : : : paradigm : paragraph : : :, parallel : parent : : : :,, : : parental : : parents :, : : :,, : : :, : :, :,, :, :,, :, :, :, : : :, :,, : parse : part : : : : : : participate :, particular : : : : : : : : particularized : : parties : parts :, passed : : past : : : PATRICIA : : : pattern : payment : : payments : pedagogical : pegged : Pennhurst : : : : people :, : : : : : perfectly : perhaps : : permission :,,, :,, :,, :, permits : permitted : perplexity : person : : :, : : : : : personal : personally : th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC person's : petitioner : : Petitioners :,, :,, : : : petitioner's :, : : phone : : : : phrase : phrased : phrases : pick : picture : pieces : place : : :, places : plaintiff : : plaintiffs : : plaintiff's : please : : : plural : : point :, : : pointed : : : points : police : policies : :, : policy :, : :, : :, :,,,, :,, : : :, : :,,, : : : : : :, :,, :,,, :, :,,,,, :,,, : :,, :,,, : :, :, :,,, : : position : : :, : : : practical : : practicality : practice :, : : : : : :, :, : : :, :, :, :, :,, :,, :, : :, :, : :, :, : : practices : :, pre : preceded : precedents : : preceding : precise : :, precisely : : : preclude : preexisting : :,, prefer : premium : present : press : presumably : presumption : :,, presumptively : prevent : : : : preventing : prevents : pre-existing : primarily : prior : privacy : : :,,, private : : : : : : :,,, :,,, :,, : : : : : : privately : probably : problem : :, :, : : : : : : procedure : : proceed : proceeded : : process : : :, program : programmatic : program-wide : prohibited : prohibition : promise : promised : prompt : promulgated : prong : prongs : proof : proper : prospective : protect : :, protected :, protecting : protection : prove : provide : : provided :, : provides : providing : provision : :,, : : : : : :, :, : : :, : : : : : provisions : : :, public : :, :, : punitive : : : : purpose : :, purposes : put : : :, putting : Q question :,, :, :, :,,, :, :, : : :,, :,,, :, :, :,,,,, : :,,,, :, : : : :, :,,, : :,, :, :, :,, :,,,,, :, :, :,,,, :, : :, :,, :, : :,,,, :,,,, :, : :,, :, :,,,,, :,, : :,, : :,, :,,, :,,,,, :,, : : : questions :, : : : quickly : quote : : : : : : : quoted : quotes : quoting : : : R R : radical : rather : : : rationale : reach : read : : reading : :, : realize :, realized :, really : : : : : : : : reason :, : :, : : reasons : : :, REBUTTAL : : receipts : receive : : : receives : receiving : : recent : recipient : recognize :, : recognized : record : : : : records :,, : : : :,,,, : :, : : : : : : recovery : red : :, : refer : :, : : : : :, : th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC reference : :,, referenced : : : references : : : referring : refers : : : : : : : reflects : regard : regional :,, regulation : regulations :,, : : REHNQUIST : : : reinforced : reinforcing : related : relationship :,, :, release : :, : : : : : : :, : : : released : :,, :,, : : : releases : : releasing :, : : :, :, :,, : : : relied : relief : : : reluctant : relying : remaining : remedies : remedy :,, : : :,, :,, remove : repeatedly : reply : report : reported : reports : require : : required : : :, : requirement : : : : : : : requirements : requires : requisite : : resolve : resolved : resort : respect : : : respectfully : respond : : : respondent : : : : responding : responds : : response :, : responses : responsive : result : retrospective : review : : : : : reviews : rid : right :,, : :,,,, : : : :, :,,, :,, :,,,,, : :,,, :,, : :,, :,,,,, : :,,,,,,, :, :,,, :, : : :,,, :, : : :,, :, : :, :, : :,,, :, :, :,, :,,,, :, :,,, :,, :, rights :, : :,,,,, :, :, : :, :, :,, :,,, : : : : : :, : : : : :, :, : :, : :,,, :, :, rights-creating : rise : Robert : Roberta : : Roberts : :, :,, :, :, : :,,, :, :,,, : :,,, :, :,, :, :, :,,, : : : :, : : : :, : :,, Robinson : role : : : rule : : ruling : run : running : : S s :, :, :, : : same : : : : :, : : : :, : :, : sanctions : Sandoval : saying : : : : : : : : : : : : :, : says : : : :, :,,, :,, : : : : :, : :,, : : Scalia : scheme :,,, : : : :, :,, scholarship : : school : : : : : : :, :, :, : :, : : :, : :,,,, :,,, : :,, :, :, schools : : :, : : :, : : : school's : : : scope : Sea : : searches : second : : : : : secondary :, : secondly : : Secretary : :,, :,,, : :, : :,, :, : :,, :,, : : : : : : : :,, :, Secretary's :, : : : :, section : : :, : :, :, :,, : : : : : : : :, : sections : secure : : see : : : : seem : : seems : : : :, : seizures : sense :, : :,, sentence : : : :, : separately : serves : set :, : : seven : : several : shorthand : show : : : shows : simple : : simply : sin : since : : :, single : situation : : situations : :, slight : small : Smith : th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC solely : Solicitor : : : some : : :,, : : :, : :, somebody : : somehow : someone : someone's : something : : :, : somewhat : sorry :, : : sort : : :, : sounds : source : :, :, : : speak : : speaks : : : specific : : : : :, : : specifically : : : spelled : spending :, : sponsors : staff : : stage : stages : : standard : : standards : star : stark : starts : State : : : :,,, :,, :,, : : : : : statement : States :,, : : : statute : : :, :, : : :, : : :,, : :,,, : :, : :,, : :,, : :, : : : : : :,, :,,, : :, : : : statutes : :,, :,, : : statutory : : stay : step : Stevens : : still : : : stipulate : stood : stop :, stopped : story : strange : : stress : strike : stronger : : strongest : structure : : struggled : student :,, : : : : : : :, : :, : :, : : :, students :,, : : :, : : : : : : : : :, : :, :, student's : : subject : :, : subjected : submission : submit : submitted :, subparagraph : subsection : : :,, : : : : : : : substantial : successful : suddenly :, sue : sufficient : suggest : : suggested : suggestion : suggests : : : : suing : suit : suits : supplant : supplants :, support : supporting : : : suppose : : : :, Supreme :, sure : : : : Suter : : :, switching : system : :, systemic : : : system-wide : : :, : T T :, take : :, :,, : : taken : : talk :, : talking : : : talks :, teacher : teachers : teaching : telephone : : tell :, :, : :, : : : : telling : tells : : term :, : : : : : : terminate : : terminating : terms : : : : :, : test :,, testimony :, thank : : :, :, : : :, their :, : : : : : : :, theory : : : Thiboutot : thing : : : : : : : : : : things : : :, : : : : think :, : :, : : : :, : :, : : : : :,,,, : : : : : : :, :,, :, : :, : :,,,, : :, :, : thinks : third : : : though : :, thought : three :, :, : through : : : : : : : : time : : : title : :, : : :, :,,, : : : today : together : told : : tone : top :,, : totally : tough : trial : trigger : triggered : triggering : : : TRO : : truthful : trying : : turn : twice : th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC unless :, : :, :, were :, : : : : two :, : : : : : : :, : : : : :,, two-time : type : : : :, : : U unambiguously : uncommon : under : : :,,,, : :,,, : : :, :,, : :, :,, : : :, :, : : :, :, : :, : : : : :, : : underline : understand : : : : unique : : United :,, : : : universities :, : : university : : : : : :, : : :, :,, : :, :, : : : : : unreasonable : unsubstantiated : unusual : : urges : urging : use :, : :, : : : : : : : used : : : :, : : uses : : : using : U.S : U.S.C : V v : : : : vague : vast : : very : : : : :, : : : :, :, : : : : : : : VI : :, view : : vindicate : vindicating : : violate : violating : violation :, : violations :,,,, : : :, visits : volume : voluntary : :, W wait : want :, :,, : : : wanted : : wants : Washington :,,, wasn't : water : way : :, : : : : ways : : : Wednesday : well :, :, : : : :, :, :,, : :, : : : :, : : : : :, : : :, : : : :,, : : we'll : : : : we're : : : : : : : :,, : : : we've : : : : Whereabouts : : while : whole :, : : : : : wide :, Wilde : wish : withhold : : withholding : witness :,,, word :, : :, : : :, : : : words : : : : : work :, worked : working : works :, : world : worried :, : : worry : worrying : wouldn't : : : :, Wright :, : written : : :, : : : : : : wrongfully : X :, X Y year : : : years : : : : : : :,, : $ : - : : $ :,,,,, : : : a : , :, : : : : : : : : : : a : : : : g : g(a) : g(a)()(A) : : g(b) :, g(b)()(A) : g(d) : : g()(B) : : : : : : : : : : :,, :, :, : :, : :,, : : : : :, :,, : : : :, :,, : : : : : : : :,, :, : : : :, : : : : : a : : : : : : : : : : th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC : : : : : : a : : : : : : : a :, :, (e) : a :, a :,,, : : : th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC 