 IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XWASHINGTON LEGAL FOUNDATION, ET AL., Petitioners :::v. : No. -LEGAL FOUNDATION OF WASHINGTON, ET AL. ::- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XWashington, D.C.Monday, December , The above-entitled matter came on for oralargument before the Supreme Court of the United States at: a.m.APPEARANCES:CHARLES FRIED, ESQ., Cambridge, Massachusetts; on behalfof the Petitioners.DAVID J. BURMAN, ESQ., Seattle, Washington; on behalf ofRespondent Legal Foundation of Washington. WALTER DELLINGER, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf ofRespondents Justices of the Supreme Court ofWashington. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC C O N T E N T SORAL ARGUMENT OF CHARLES FRIED, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioners DAVID J. BURMAN, ESQ.On behalf of Respondent Legal Foundation of Washington WALTER DELLINGER, ESQ.On behalf of Respondents Justices ofthe Supreme Court of Washington REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OFCHARLES FRIED, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioners PAGE th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC P R O C E E D I N G S(: a.m.)JUSTICE STEVENS: We'll hear argument inNumber -, Washington Legal Foundation against theLegal Foundation of Washington. Mr. Fried, you may proceed when -- wheneveryou're ready.ORAL ARGUMENT OF CHARLES FRIEDON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERSMR. FRIED: Thank you, Justice Stevens, and mayit please the Court:I wish to argue four propositions. First, thatthe interest in these IOLTA accounts is the privateproperty of Brown and Hayes, the clients. Second, that itwas not regulated; it was taken. Third, that it has value. And fourth, that an injunction or declaratoryrelief is an appropriate and practicable form of relief inthis case. Now --QUESTION: Before you start, Mr. Fried, may Iask you one broad question? You don't agree, I take it,with the conclusion of the dissent in the court ofappeals, which I don't think agreed with your fourthpoint.MR. FRIED: No. I think we are entitled to a th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC declaration, or to an -- or an injunction just as wasreceived in Eastern -- in Eastern Enterprises, just as wasreceived in Hodel v. Irving, just as was received inNollan and Dolan. And in our -- in our complaint filed,we asked for declaratory or injunctive relief, so I thinkthat is available, and it is a practical and proper formof relief in this case. QUESTION: The only point I was really want --you -- you do not understand the dissenters in the NinthCircuit to have gone that far, though, do you? MR. FRIED: How -- how far, Justice Stevens? QUESTION: To have held that you're entitled toinjunctive relief.MR. FRIED: They did not go that far. They --no, they did not. No, they did not. QUESTION: In fact, they specifically said thisequitable relief would not enjoin takings, but wouldsimply stop Washington Supreme Court from requiring theLPO's to comply with the IOLTA rules.MR. FRIED: Well, if the injunctive relief,which we asked for -- and here in the -- the complaint, Ibelieve, is on page of the -- of the jointappendix. I think it's on -- no, I'm sorry. It's -- yes,in the -- in the joint appendix. We ask specifically forinjunctive and declaratory relief in general. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Now --QUESTION: Mr. Fried, what plaintiffs havestanding to ask for injunctive relief in this case?MR. FRIED: Certainly Brown and Hayes. There'sa question whether Daugs and Maxwell do, but certain --QUESTION: But in the -- in the complaint was aninjunction sought on behalf of Brown and Hayes?MR. FRIED: Yes. An injunction was sought ingeneral. A general injunction was sought. I'm sorry. I'm not putting my hand on the -- on the section in thecomplaint, but --QUESTION: I -- I thought it read to thecontrary, that it was on behalf of the LPOs.MR. FRIED: It was on behalf of the LPOs, butthen finally -- yes. Now I have it. Thank you. In thejoint appendix on page , we ask specifically that theypermanently enjoin the defendants. This is paragraph . So we asked for that relief, yes.QUESTION: And -- and you ask for it now onbehalf of Brown and Hayes, not --MR. FRIED: We certainly do.QUESTION: -- on behalf of the foundation. MR. FRIED: We -- we ask for it on behalf of anyand all parties in this case. QUESTION: Mr. Fried, the question that Justice th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Stevens raised, which I was then addressing, was not whatwas in your complaint, but what was the position of thedissenting judges in the Ninth Circuit. And I read fromthat dissent -- so you are clearly asking for somethingthat the dissenters did not say you would be entitled towhen they said --MR. FRIED: We are asking for more than thedissenters would have given us. That is correct, JusticeGinsburg. QUESTION: Yes. They said the equitable reliefwould not enjoin takings. MR. FRIED: Yes. We are asking for more thanthat. We are asking for it because it's very clear onthis Court's precedents that where compensatory reliefwould be impracticable, or is not contemplated in the program, an injunction is -- is proper. And this Courthas on numerous occasions in very similar cases grantedinjunctive relief.QUESTION: You -- you mentioned your complaint,and then we have this passage in the dissent. When didthe idea of an injunction of the takings -- when was thatsquarely presented to any court? Because it would seemthat if you had presented it, that this is rather curious,what we get in the dissent. MR. FRIED: It's been presented throughout, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Justice Ginsburg, and in fact, in the Fifth Circuit case,which is virtually identical to this case, not only was itpresented, but an injunction was granted. And exactly theinjunction which we received --QUESTION: If you just could tell me at whatpoint you made it clear to the court that you were seekingnot what is described here, that is, that the -- that theinjunction would be addressed to the compliance of theLPO's with the IOLTA rules.MR. FRIED: I think that the -- I submit,Justice Ginsburg, that that paragraph, which I have readto you, makes that clear.QUESTION: But that paragraph --MR. FRIED: And in the summary -- and I'm -- I'minformed that it was also made clear in our summary judgment motion. So that the courts were well aware, asthe complaint should have made them aware, but also werewell aware that we were seeking an injunction for allparties in all respects. And after all, that is preciselythe relief that was obtained in the Fifth Circuit case.QUESTION: Let -- let me see if I can help youget to the other major parts of your case by asking thisquestion. In Loretto, could the property owners haveobtained an injunction against piercing the building for th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC the little antenna or the wire on the grounds that therewas no compensation? I doubt it. I would think thegovernment, after Loretto, would continue to be able topoke the holes in -- in the wall -- or maybe I'm wrong --even though compensation was negligible. Could there havebeen an injunction there, and if the answer is, well, no,why can there be an injunction here? And maybe that getsyou to the --MR. FRIED: They --QUESTION: -- the nature of the taking thatoccurred in this case. MR. FRIED: The -- I think that's exactly thereason. If there were an -- if there is compensation inthis case, exactly as the Court said in EasternEnterprises, it would -- in effect, compensation being dollar-for-dollar is the equivalent of shutting down theprogram. And that was the case in Webb's as well. I -- I might just mention, Justice Kennedy, thatthe respondents throughout this case say that the EasternEnterprises case, which is very important to ourinjunctive claim, was really only a plurality. There wasnot a majority for the Court. I don't believe that thefifth Justice, which was yourself, disagreed with theremedy.And indeed, the fifth Justice said that this was th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC not a takings case -- Eastern Enterprise -- because unlikethis very case we have, this was not the -- the -- yousaid, rather the exaction is a forced contribution togeneral government revenues. I'm sorry. I'm reading thewrong -- I'm reading the wrong passage. In the Eastern -- Eastern Enterprises case, yousaid that the reason -- the reason that you didn't thinkthat was a takings case was that a valuable interest in anintangible or even a bank account or accrued interest,which is, of course, this case, had not been appropriated. Well, this is a bank account and accrued interest --QUESTION: Well, what about my hypothetical onLoretto? I -- I take it Loretto establishes that therewas an invasion, a taking --MR. FRIED: Yes. QUESTION: -- but let's -- let's assume that thecompensation was just so minimal it just really couldn'tbe calculated. It was cents or something. Could youhave had an injunction against installation of theantennas in Loretto on the ground that the compensationcan't be figured? I think not. And if that's -- if myconclusion is right about that, how is your casedifferent? MR. FRIED: My -- our case is different becausein this case, as in Webb's, as in Eastern Associates, to th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC give compensation is to simply erase the program. Whilein the case where physical property is taken, to givecompensation still leaves it open to use that propertywhile -- where what you have is money and you must makecompensation for that, then to make compensation for adollar is to pay a dollar. That's what the Court said inEastern Enterprises. QUESTION: Why doesn't that just prove that youhave the wrong clause of the Constitution? That is, yourclause of the Constitution, the one you're pushing, says,nor shall private property be taken for public use withoutjust compensation. Foreseeing that you can take theproperty for public use, you just have to pay money forit. Just compensation. Now, if paying the just compensation can't work out, or it's too hard or, you know, the person doesn'thave enough of an interest to get anything, that doesn'tmean the government can't take it. It just -- if there'ssomething wrong with it, it means that that that which iswrong with it is that it violates the Due Process Clause,not the Just Compensation Clause. MR. FRIED: That would be correct if Webb's hadbeen a due process case, but it was not. It was a takingscase. And in Webb's, they didn't say you can take thatinterest so long as you pay just compensation for it. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC They say, you've got to stop.QUESTION: Then the rationale -- you'd sayeven -- I mean, occasionally some case does have somethingthat's a little hard to follow, but the -- the theory thatthat is consistent with the Just Compensation Clause,rather than the Due Process Clause, is?MR. FRIED: That it makes no sense. It's notthat it's hard to calculate. We would be happy to arguehow you would calculate it. The point is that tocalculate it and to pay the just compensation is to shutdown the program. It makes no sense. There's no programleft after you have paid just compensation.QUESTION: Yes, but if -- if it is shown -- andI guess we don't know here because it hasn't beendetermined. If it is shown that no compensation is due because it wouldn't have earned or produced anything, thenhow is it a taking? I mean, that's -- because the TakingsClause refers to the taking without just compensation. Ifthe compensation is , how is it a taking? MR. FRIED: The compensation is not , and thepremise of the --QUESTION: If. If it were, how -- how is it ataking? MR. FRIED: If it were. But the --QUESTION: Well, then what is your answer? Is th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC it a taking if the just compensation is ?MR. FRIED: Yes. It is a taking, but it is --as the -- because this Court --QUESTION: How is it in -- in the language ofthe clause? MR. FRIED: Because this Court in Phillips hasheld that economic -- that -- that there is privateproperty and it has value even though it has no realizableeconomic value. But we do not concede that there is no economicvalue here, and the fact that it could not have earnedinterest --QUESTION: But that has not been determined, hasit?MR. FRIED: Yes, it has. It has been determined. It has been determined and conceded by therespondents that there is interest in this case of $and $. They go on to argue, ah, yes, but absent theIOLTA program, that would not have been earned. ThisCourt in Webb's specifically addressed that point andsaid, we accept the proposition that apart from thestatute, Florida law does not require that interest be --be earned on registered deposits. So it was quite clear. This is just another version of --QUESTION: But weren't those gross figures th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC rather than net figures? Those --MR. FRIED: Those are gross figures, yes,Justice Stevens. QUESTION: But can we assume, along withJustice O'Connor's question, that there's no net loss tothe property owner? We assume the -- the interest isthe -- goes with the principal, and therefore it'sproperty, and property has been taken. But has there beenany net loss to the person from whom the property has beentaken?MR. FRIED: Perhaps and perhaps not. Let's saythat there has not. I -- we argue that that does notmatter. It is the gross -- it is the gross interest thatis in -- involved here --QUESTION: Even if it had been --MR. FRIED: -- and that is the point --QUESTION: Do you agree if it was a taking andyou were to get just compensation, you would get the netloss rather than the gross loss? MR. FRIED: No. We would get the gross loss. I think the --QUESTION: You -- you again, Mr. Fried, aregoing quite beyond the position of the original panel,later the dissenters in the Ninth Circuit, who made itclear -- and this is on page a of the original panel th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC decision -- that said, just as a client is not entitled tothe full amount that a lawyer collects for him, but onlythat amount less the lawyer's reasonable expenses andfees, so just compensation for the interest taken byIOLTA, after IOLTA causes the interest fund to exist, issomething less -- is something less -- than the amount ofthe interest. MR. FRIED: That is what the dissent says. We do not agree with that.What we agree with is what this Court said inPhillips when this Court said that -- and it used theexample of the rents -- the government may not seize rentsreceived by the owner of a building because it can provethat the costs incurred in collecting the rents exceed theamounts collected. If the argument that's being made now were correct, then that statement would be incorrectbecause it would mean --QUESTION: Well, isn't the difference --MR. FRIED: -- that the government may seizethose rents. QUESTION: Isn't the difference, Mr. Fried, thatin the -- in the rent example, what the -- what themembers of the Court were assuming was that if somebodywants to be a bad businessperson, he's perfectly free todo it, and until he goes bankrupt, or loses the property, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC he can collect the rent. The situation here is different because thesituation here is such that there's nothing to collect. The -- the way the background principles of the bankingstatutes are set up, or -- which are effected by thebanking statutes means that the -- the rent, the penny,the interest, never gets to the person who owns theprincipal. And isn't that why -- isn't that exactly whyPhillips does not determine the result in this case?MR. FRIED: I think not, Justice --Justice Souter, because the Court in Phillips saidspecifically this interest -- so it assumes there is --this interest is the private property of the clients,Brown and Hayes. It said that this is -- that's what thisCourt said. It is their property. Now, it doesn't disappear as their property because they would incurexpenses in collecting it. QUESTION: Well, I may not be the -- the bestexpert on what the -- what the majority meant by that. (Laughter.) QUESTION: But I think thought what the majoritymeant by that was that when you aggregate, as -- as is thecase in these IOLTA accounts, of course there is afractional sense that is attributable to every itemthat -- a fractional sense of the interest that's th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC attributable to every item that goes into the aggregation,but it doesn't follow from that that any of thatattributable amount could ever be netted out and ever bereceived under the banking statutes by those individualsto whom it is attributable. If, in fact, it were theother way, then the IOLTA scheme would force a separateNOW account to have been set up. MR. FRIED: The -- the Court certainly did notsay that any of that interest could be netted out and paidnet to Brown and Hayes, but it did say, quiteunambiguously, that that interest -- not in some generalsense, but exactly that interest -- was the privateproperty of clients, Brown and Hayes. Now --QUESTION: But was it taken from them? So, Imean, I -- I can see why you see Webb is very, verysimilar, but the difference that I saw is that Webb saysthe money should be deposited in an ordinary interest-bearing account, and here it's being deposited in a -- inan account that is really the creation of the government'sprogram that just couldn't have borne interest unless youcollect all these funds together. So without thisprogram, the person couldn't have earned interest. Now, has the government taken that? If theyhave taken it, then why didn't the government take it when th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC they -- when they tax it. Suppose the tax law was illegalbecause it's very unreasonable. Why wouldn't that then bea taking? Why wouldn't the government take it when thegovernment has a currency reg that imposes certainconditions upon the use of that interest? I'm back to the same point. Why isn't thisreally a due process problem, not a takings problem? MR. FRIED: Well, that's a -- I mean, that is --that is an argument which depends on traversing thepremise established by this Court in Webb's and Phillips.QUESTION: That's why I -- I said the differencein Webb's is that in Webb's it's an ordinary interest-bearing account. Here it's an account that is nonexistentwithout the IOLTA program coming in and saying we will putfunds together, and those funds could not have earned interest on their own. MR. FRIED: Well, that is the argument that theSolicitor General made in Phillips, that this isgovernment-created property, and it was rejected.QUESTION: I'm making the same argument inrespect to taking. MR. FRIED: And it was rejected by this Court. It was rejected. QUESTION: But do you agree with that -- thatpremise? Couldn't a -- a group of attorneys or real th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC estate brokers form their own consortium and say in orderto avoid wasting this interest, we're going to put theinterest in a special fund and we'll give clients a check-off system where we'll expend it the way they want? Private -- private enterprise could do exactly what IOLTAis doing, could it not? MR. FRIED: It might very well. QUESTION: If -- if the government let it, andjust because the government doesn't want to let it,doesn't mean the government has a right to do it on itsown. Isn't that your point, or isn't it --MR. FRIED: Well, that is -- that's one of thepoints. QUESTION: Well, it could do it theoretically,but as a practical matter, computing the -- the various payouts would -- would be so expensive that -- and thepayouts so small that it's just not practicable. Isn'tthat --MR. FRIED: If I could just address thegross-versus-net point. The interest to which we areentitled, to which the clients are entitled, is -- it wascalculated by respondents -- $ and $. That is theamount to which they are entitled. It may well be thatalong the way, the accountants will say, fine, and we'dlike $. of that, and the lawyers may say, fine, and we th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC want actually $ of that. And it may well be that at theend of the day they don't have any money. That's not anyof the government's business. QUESTION: But that -- that was not the positionthat any judge has brought so far because the originalpanel that held in your favor said, yes -- and I don'twant to repeat myself, but something less. It would besomething less than the amount of interest. I have a question that -- that's puzzling meabout this theoretically we could have it separate. I thought that the program can only work, as far as thetax law is concerned, if the client has no control overthe disposition of --MR. FRIED: That is correct. QUESTION: -- that interest. If the client hascontrol, then it's taxable to the -- then it -- interestlike any other interest would be taxable. So, here, the IOLTA has this peculiar aspect toit. You can it's interest belonging to the client, butthat client has no right to dispose of it as long as it'sgoing to be nontaxable income. MR. FRIED: The client has a right to dispose ofit, but -- or ought to have a right, under theConstitution, has a right to dispose of it --QUESTION: But then it would be interest -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. FRIED: -- but he will pay taxes. QUESTION: Yes. But that's another --MR. FRIED: That's -- that's life. QUESTION: -- another -- I would like to go backto a very basic question, and it's -- it's essentiallythis. If you had not -- no IOLTA program with the taxadvantage that you get that makes the whole thing work,and we went back, we just got this injunction, stop itall, it seems to me the big gainer, the person who isreally benefitting, and who lost the last time around isthe bank because the bank had the free use of these funds,and IOLTA comes along and takes it. It really takes itaway from the banks. And then if you succeed, it goesback to the bank. Am I right that that's the --MR. FRIED: It may. It may go back to the bank, which, in a competitive industry, would presumably workits way down to the -- to the clients, but I don't need tomake that argument. QUESTION: Why -- why don't you, though, have tomake exactly the same argument if IOLTA goes down thedrain -- compulsory IOLTA goes down the drain on yourtheory? Why don't you have to make the same argumentabout the -- the background government regulation which,in effect, gives the interest to the bank?MR. FRIED: It doesn't give the interest to the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC bank.QUESTION: Sure, it does. It says, look, bank,you can take in money, but you can't pay out any intereston it. You can't pay out interest on a straight checkingaccount and you can't pay out NOW interest to acorporation. Therefore, in effect, you get to keep it.MR. FRIED: Well, the --QUESTION: And the -- the effect of that, itseems to me, is just as much to deprive your client of the$, if there is any deprivation at all, as -- as it is todeprive it when it says IOLTA gets it instead of the bank.MR. FRIED: Yes. QUESTION: Except your -- your client is notcompelled by -- by those banking regulations to depositany money in the bank, is he?MR. FRIED: No, it is not. QUESTION: And your client, I suppose, is notcompelled to engage in this consensual transaction withthe broker.MR. FRIED: It is -- the client is compelled toengage in it if he wishes to buy and sell real estate.QUESTION: And the client --MR. FRIED: He's not compelled to buy and sellreal estate. QUESTION: And the client is compelled to th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC deposit the money if it wishes to get banking services. But in no instance -- either the IOLTA case, or thebackground regs case -- does the government say to theperson with $ in his pocket, you've got to put it in thebank, or you've got to spend that money on real estate. MR. FRIED: Well, indeed, not. QUESTION: But the compulsion is the same oneway or the other. QUESTION: I think -- I think the point isthat -- that your client must -- must be willing -- whatis it -- must deposit money in the bank if he wants todeposit money in the bank. That's the compulsion here.MR. FRIED: He must --QUESTION: He must deposit money in the bank ifhe wants to deposit money in the bank.MR. FRIED: He must deposit money in the bank ifhe wants to buy and sell real estate, the way you have topay money to a grocer if you want to eat. If I may, I'd reserve the balance of my time forrebuttal. Thank you. QUESTION: Mr. Burman.ORAL ARGUMENT OF DAVID J. BURMANON BEHALF OF RESPONDENTLEGAL FOUNDATION OF WASHINGTONMR. BURMAN: Justice Stevens, and may it please th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC the Court:I would like to start with the question thatJustice O'Connor posed because I think it goes to theheart of the flaw in plaintiffs' case. There is anindependent requirement -- an independent element of theircause of action which is that they show that there wasjust compensation due and denied by the State ofWashington. That has not happened here. QUESTION: So the position of the State ofWashington is that it can take any property so long as itdoesn't have -- so long as compensation can't becalculated.MR. BURMAN: No. The position is that there isno unconstitutional taking if we would pay compensation. Certainly the -- the plain language of the clause says the property may be taken. QUESTION: Doesn't -- doesn't the State havesome duty to recognize that the Constitution protectsproperty and it shouldn't take property that doesn'tbelong to it?MR. BURMAN: In certain circumstances, the JustCompensation Clause acts a shield.QUESTION: So -- so if you can get it --MR. BURMAN: The process might well --QUESTION: So if you can get away with taking th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC property just because it can't be valued, then you cantake it.MR. BURMAN: That is not --QUESTION: That's the position of the State ofWashington. MR. BURMAN: That is the position of thisCourt's cases, not the position of the State ofWashington, which does not go that far. Our position isthat --QUESTION: Well, there might be some due processclaim, mightn't there?MR. BURMAN: One was not stated here. QUESTION: We're trying -- what -- what we'relooking at here is a takings claim. MR. BURMAN: Correct. Other plaintiffs might well have a due process claim. These plaintiffs may wellstill have a First Amendment claim since their realcomplaint with this is their subjective ideological one,subjectivity which this Court has said is not the businessof the Just Compensation Clause. QUESTION: Once again, I -- $ and $. It's nota whole lot of money, but it's their money. Why -- why doyou say it can't be calculated? MR. BURMAN: Under this Court's cases, it is nottheir money. The Court has been very careful to say that th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC what we look at, because the Just Compensation Clause is atype of indemnity provision that is worried aboutresponding with -- to loss of pecuniary or monetaryvalue -- the Court in the parcel aggregation cases, suchas Boston Chamber and Sage, made it very clear that if itis not economically practicable, if the costs ofaggregation would exceed the benefit, there is no justcompensation.QUESTION: But you're -- there you're talkingabout something that has to be sold for money. This isquite calculable. We know exactly how much interest waspaid, and we know that that interest belonged -- under ourcase law, belongs to these plaintiffs. What -- what isthe problem? $ and $.MR. BURMAN: Answering the question of whether it's property, as the Court made clear in Phillips, doesnot answer the question of whether there is a taking, orthe question of whether there is just compensation. QUESTION: Well, who has the $ and $?MR. BURMAN: The government does, as it had theadditional value in the cases such as the Boston Chambercase, and in --QUESTION: Mr. Burman, am I right? It's not$ and $. That's gross. And with the --MR. BURMAN: That is gross. And, in fact, in th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Webb's, the very case they rely upon, the Court said thegovernment can deduct the cost of protecting that moneybefore you calculate what is due. That is exactly whathappened --QUESTION: Right. That's why he says he wantsthe injunction. MR. BURMAN: Webb's did not have an injunction.QUESTION: I know it didn't. It didn't need it.And his point was -- his point was that since -- if youcould theoretically give the compensation, which isimpossible for the reason you say --MR. BURMAN: It's --QUESTION: It's impossible. They're notentitled to anything in cash. But look, if you could doit theoretically, there would be no more program, so give us an injunction because it comes to the same thing.MR. BURMAN: Where the textual language is justcompensation, and where the value is economic or pecuniaryor monetary loss, as this Court's cases often say, it'snot just that there is no way to remedy this problem. There is no remedy called for by the Constitution. Theremedy is just compensation. I take this --QUESTION: Suppose -- suppose there were a Statein which a group of lawyers or real -- people with realestate accounts got together and say, we really should th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC pool this interest and we'll give our clients a choice offour different things that they can allocate the money to. And we're just going to do that as a service, and we thinkit's good business. Actually we might -- the company thatdoes this might make a few dollars themselves.If that were in place, could the State ofWashington do what it does now, say, you know, this lookslike a good idea? We think we'll take it for what welike.MR. BURMAN: That may be a very different case.These plaintiffs have never tried that. That is not theircomplaint. They make no allegation --QUESTION: But can -- do they even have thepossibility of trying that given the regulation that younow have? MR. BURMAN: Actually, we don't know that.QUESTION: You've taken away, in effect, abusiness opportunity, have you not?MR. BURMAN: No. We don't know that that's thecase because they've never presented it to the Statesupreme court. QUESTION: Well, it's certainly profitable foryou to do it. Why do you think you can do what privatebusiness can't? MR. BURMAN: Our burden is not to come up with th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC hypotheticals for other cases that they might bring. These two plaintiffs brought their case. QUESTION: Well, your burden is to answerhypotheticals --MR. BURMAN: Yes. QUESTION: -- that establish whether or not aproperty interest is being taken in violation of theConstitution here. MR. BURMAN: Correct, Your Honor. QUESTION: And you say that simply because itcan't be computed, A, because of the small amounts, and B,because of the government's unique program, that it is notproperty anymore. MR. BURMAN: And the difference is what isunique about the government's program and what Boston Chamber says would be relevant, if individuals could doit, was aggregation that reduces the transaction costs. In a hypothetical where --QUESTION: Now, does -- does this mean --let's -- you know, banks pay higher -- higher amounts forcertain deposits above a certain amount. And you'resaying that if the government passes a law that saysI have to -- I have to deposit my $,, together withother people's $,, thereby getting additional interestfor all of it -- right -- you can keep the interest th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC because I wouldn't have gotten it anyway.MR. BURMAN: Justice Scalia --QUESTION: What a -- what a wonderful scam. (Laughter.) MR. BURMAN: There is an element of compulsionthere that is not present here, and there is no -- you --you posit no regulatory purpose. This arose out of aclear regulatory purpose to --QUESTION: I don't care if there's a regulatorypurpose or not. I mean, that -- that may go to someother -- some other element, but as -- as to whetheryou've taken my property, the interest was paid because ofmy $,, and then you come back and say, oh, yeah, butyou wouldn't have gotten that much because you wouldn'thave been -- well, that's true. I wouldn't have, but the fact is I was in with those other people and I did getthem more money, and that more money is mine.MR. BURMAN: And -- and they should present thatargument. It may well be that they could come up with ascheme that would reduce the transaction costs and createa net value, and the plain language of the rule says ifthat happens, the lawyer has to honor it. QUESTION: They're -- they're arguing --MR. BURMAN: It is the lawyer's obligation. QUESTION: All right. I think they're saying, I th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC agreed with you. You know, I agreed with you. But Iwrote a dissent. So they're saying that was a dissent. You lost. Now, it is the law of the United States thatthis is property. Indeed, it is their clients' property.Now, you tell me on that assumption, since Ilost, why is it not a taking of that property for whichthey are entitled to just compensation, and, in this case,the just compensation would have to take the form of aninjunction. Now, unless -- I'm -- I'm anxious to hear theanswer to that point.MR. BURMAN: You lost only on the question ofwhether the majority should have looked at thoseadditional elements. The majority was very clear to saywe express no opinion. We state no view on these otherquestions. That would be nonsensical if in fact it follows automatically from what the majority said, butclearly that's not the case. QUESTION: Good. So tell me why it doesn't.MR. BURMAN: With respect to the injunctionquestion, if I could jump ahead to -- to that part of yourhypothetical, Eastern Enterprises, we believe, is adifferent situation where, as in the Youpee case, theCourt basically said Congress could not have intended thiscircularity, and so we are not going to read the statutethat way. This is different when you have the State, and th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC it's different where, even the dissenters in the NinthCircuit below admitted that the amount due, if any, isgoing to be smaller than the gross interest. In casessuch as Webb's, in cases such as Sperry, even in Phillips,the Court seemed to acknowledge that the deduction madesense. QUESTION: But Justice Breyer's question I thinkwas, is there or is there not a taking of property here?MR. BURMAN: There is property. We believethere is no taking, and Mr. Dellinger will address thatperhaps more directly than I will. But it is --QUESTION: How -- how would you define what'shappened to the property? It's been regulated out ofexistence?MR. BURMAN: The property was transferred, just as in Connolly, just as in Eastern Enterprises. QUESTION: Oh, it's been transferred but nottaken.MR. BURMAN: Correct. It has not been taken byapplying the multi-factor test that the Court says applieswhen you have a transfer of dollars, which is whathappened in those cases. And when you apply that test,these plaintiffs admit no investment expectation, no neteconomic loss. QUESTION: It -- it seems to me an odd rule that th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC it's not a right of the owner to decide to whom the ownercan transfer the property.MR. BURMAN: These owners transferred theproperty to an intermediary on its way to a third party. It would be a really odd rule if somehow the right toexclude was independent of the economic value of money. Just as interest may follow principal, it would make sensethat the right to exclude has to follow the economic valuewhen you send it to an --QUESTION: Mr. Burman, let me ask you somethingas a practical matter. If the Court disagreed with youand concluded there was a taking and they were entitled tosome relief, can the problem be solved by simply adding alittle explanatory provision in the proposed escrowinstructions, that if you don't want your money in the combined account, you can do something else with it? MR. BURMAN: The -- the --QUESTION: Otherwise, it's going in the IOLTAaccount.MR. BURMAN: The problem if -- as I understandit, is that if you give the client the right to opt out,the IRS says that becomes taxable. We're not saying thatyou net out the taxes --QUESTION: It would become taxable to the personopting out. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. BURMAN: Correct, and that --QUESTION: But not to everybody else. If the --if -- if the person entering into the escrow says, havingunderstood it, look, if I opt out, I'm not going to getanything, so I don't care, you can do this, would -- couldit still function?MR. BURMAN: It -- I believe it might well beable to function, and I think it's important that there'sno compulsion --QUESTION: How could it? They're client --QUESTION: Are you sure it's not taxable to theperson who opts out? MR. BURMAN: It is -- it may be taxable to theperson who opts out.QUESTION: Not to the others? MR. BURMAN: It may not be to the others. I don't know the --QUESTION: Why not? Because that person wouldhave disposition either way.MR. BURMAN: Oh, if they had the right. You --and -- you're correct. QUESTION: And -- and in order to have thisscheme work, the client cannot have any control over thedisposition. MR. BURMAN: I stand corrected. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: So you couldn't do -- you couldn't dothis --MR. BURMAN: And it's not the tax that needs tobe netted out. It's the cost of individually recording,tracking, paying, and reporting to the IRS that eats upthese nominal amounts. That is the problem here.If I could make one correction to somethingMr. Fried said. There is no compulsion here. You don'thave to go to an escrow agency that has an LPO or alawyer. You can go to one that does not have one. InWashington and many States, that's the case. There is nocompulsion here --QUESTION: Except correct one -- or explain onething to me. I thought that if it netted out so thatthere was no net amount available to the depositor, that -- I mean, the other way around. If it netted outthat there was -- something was due, even or cents,then that would be improper, and you'd have to give themthe money back. MR. BURMAN: Absolutely. Banks effectivelyencumber interest with their charges. That's what theplaintiffs' complaint alleges. They say prior to IOLTA,banks paid no interest. They bundled and effectivelyencumbered it there. When required to separate it out, Ican guarantee you, you won't be allowed to go to a bank th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC and say, I'd like to withdraw my $ and my cents ofinterest and maybe I'll pay a year $ in service chargeslater if I feel like it. That does not happen. This ismoney that is encumbered, and you should look at the netamount. If there is no value lost, there is no takingunder this Court's cases. Kimball Laundry could not be more clear. InKimball Laundry, the Court said for any --QUESTION: -- back to my example. My example ofyou -- you compel a bunch of people to -- tocontribute $, apiece. No money lost? I could nothave made that -- that additional -- that additionalinterest on the $,. So It's perfectly okay for theState to say, hey, you know, this -- this interest is ours. We made it on your money, but you couldn't havegotten it otherwise. That seems to me extraordinarilystrange. MR. BURMAN: If you compelled them to do it,that might be a different case. It is Mr. Fried'sproposal, which I believe if he had a narrower argument hewould have made it, but he gives you the radical andstartling argument that you only look at the gross amountand even -- and that even if there is no net value due,which in case after case -- such as Kimball Laundry and th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Marion & Rye -- the Court has said, if no economic valuelost, no fair market value, no violation. Here you have a perfectly functioning market. The banks. They decide what is the fair market value ofthe time value of money and they encumber it within thecosts --QUESTION: Well, it's not a perfectlyfunctioning market when you have Federal and Stateregulations. MR. BURMAN: That's part of the baseline thatthey do not challenge. QUESTION: If that's your definition of afunctioning market, the -- it's the Federal Governmentthat says it has to be deducted -- it has to be spent forcharity purposes. MR. BURMAN: It's --QUESTION: And I take it that regulation isn'tattacked. I'm not sure why.MR. BURMAN: Correct. They do not attack it. It's the Federal Government that creates a tax system thatrequires a lot of record-keeping. They do not challengethat baseline cost, and our argument is that for thatreason, there is no value lost, no violation --QUESTION: Now, what choice did the plaintiffshave in going into this arrangement or not? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. BURMAN: As in Yee and PruneYard and FloridaPower, the plaintiffs voluntarily went into a transaction. They gave up their right to exclude. They gave up thisinterest for an intermediary for it to move on.QUESTION: If they wanted to engage in the realestate transaction, did they have another choice? MR. BURMAN: Certainly. They could have filledout the forms themself, and gone to an escrow agent thatdid not employ an LPO or a lawyer. Thank you. QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. Burman. ORAL ARGUMENT OF WALTER DELLINGERON BEHALF OF RESPONDENTSJUSTICES OF THE SUPREME COURT OF WASHINGTONMR. DELLINGER: Justice Stevens, and may it please the Court:To establish a violation of the JustCompensation Clause, let's remember there have to be threeelements. There has to be property -- established byPhillips. There has to be a taking in the constitutionalsense, and there has to be a denial by the State of justcompensation. Mr. Burman has suggested why that is missing inthis case because there has been no just compensationthat's denied. The justices of the Washington Supreme -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: Well, but -- but that's the issuebefore us. I'm just not sure of a precedent which saysthat if just compensation can't be calculated, thegovernment is free to take someone's property for itself. And -- and I'm just baffled by what that principle mightbe.MR. DELLINGER: Justice Kennedy, it is a takingwhen the government takes your property without asufficient regulatory basis. And the compensation theyowe you, if it is zero, and zero is paid, there is noviolation. I know it is somewhat surprising since thefounding generation was so wedded to rights of property,but the Fifth Amendment expressly confirms the authorityof government to take property for public purposes, State,local, and National. They have to pay just compensation. If they take $ million of your property and payyou $,, they've violated the clause. If they -- ifyour property is worth $, and they pay you $, theyhaven't violated. And if it loses $ in value, and it'sworth zero, then they owe you nothing. There's no denial,no violation of the Fifth Amendment. Professor Fried would say in that instance, ifthe value declines from $ to zero, you enjoin them fromtaking it. That's not the answer. The answer is that thecompensation is zero. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Now, in this case, by definition, as thejustices of the Supreme Court of Washington -- insofar asthe English language would permit it -- said we do notwant to take property that individuals could earn on theirown. They say at page of the joint appendix from theoriginal IOLTA order, in adopting these amendments to theCode of Professional Responsibility, we make clear thatthose funds available for the IOLTA program are only thosethat cannot under any circumstances earn net interest.And they even were careful at page of thejoint appendix to say that as cost-effective subaccountingservices become available, making it possible to earn netinterest on smaller amounts for increasingly shorterperiods of time, more trust money will have to be investedfor a client's benefit under the new rule. The rule isself-adjusting. Unquote. QUESTION: So you give -- you give the sameanswer to my $, hypothetical that your -- your brotherwould. Right? MR. DELLINGER: My answer is that --QUESTION: I mean, so long as the governmentsets it up that way and I couldn't make any more money,the money that the government makes on my money is thegovernment's. Right? MR. DELLINGER: Yes, because this Court's cases th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC make it clear, Justice Scalia, that the amount of justcompensation that is due is the amount of your loss. Andif your loss is zero, there's no denial of justcompensation.QUESTION: I don't think the cases make clearwhat you have to deduct from it. What if -- what if itwould be clear that I would have had to have to sue forit, and -- and I would have had to expend attorney's fees? Does that all have to be deducted from the justcompensation?MR. DELLINGER: No. I would not -- I would notcount that as all. The -- the proper measure is what awilling buyer would pay a willing seller. In thisinstance, I think, it's the -- what is taken is theability to use one's money to earn money for a period of time. What would a willing buyer pay for that?If I have a few thousand dollars to investfor hours and say to Professor Fried, you can pay mefor the value of that -- my right to earn that money; ifhe goes to the bank and the bank says, you can deposithere for hours, but when you come back, you will owe usmoney, he's going to pay me zero. Now, if --QUESTION: That's if you took his right to earninterest. But that's not what you took here. You th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC took $. He did earn interest. It was not some abstractright to earn interest that was taken. What was takenwas $. MR. DELLINGER: I think that is amischaracterization of the facts, Justice Scalia, that themoney that he put in, if invested at that rate, in a worldwithout transaction costs, would have earned that amountof money, but that world doesn't exist in the -- in theMilky Way. QUESTION: Whose money earned the $?MR. DELLINGER: The $ --QUESTION: His money earned it, didn't it? Anddidn't we say in our earlier case that if it's his moneythat earned the interest, the interest belongs to him?MR. DELLINGER: That's not the case because the --QUESTION: Mr. Dellinger, isn't the -- isn'tit -- it's their money that earned it. Isn't interest bydefinition that which is netted out that the bank paysyou? MR. DELLINGER: Precisely, it's --QUESTION: And if that is the definition ofinterest, then there was no $. There was no interestearned on this amount. Isn't that --MR. DELLINGER: That is exactly correct, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Justice Souter. QUESTION: Or did -- did they -- I'd like to --just to spend a couple of minutes at some point addressingthe question of whether -- whether the program took itfrom him. That is to say, I guess there's a sense inwhich -- suppose a robber had come and said to thedepositor, your money or your life. I mean, what wouldthe depositor have done? I guess he'd be dead. Thismoney wouldn't have existed. Did he take it from him? Did he obtain it from him? There -- there is a problemthere that I'd just like you to address. MR. DELLINGER: Justice Breyer, I think thecases make it clear that you look to what a willing buyerwould pay a willing seller. QUESTION: That's compensation, but I wonder what about -- I mean, there is a sense in which theprogram took the money, but who did it take it from? Didit take it from the property owner? Is there a sense --or do you concede the point that there's a taking? MR. DELLINGER: The money that is -- the moneythat is acquired -- taken in the common language sense --comes from the money that is generated by the pool offunds. It's not money that could have been paid to theindividual client. And these rules make it clear that ifyou could pay it to the individual client, because you th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC can't -- you can't find out who he or she is, or allocatethe money to them. So it has no net value.QUESTION: I thought we decided that issue inPhillips. I mean, you could argue that point --QUESTION: Yes.QUESTION: -- but didn't we decide that point inPhillips, that there was a taking --QUESTION: I don't know if we did that. I mean,property --QUESTION: -- and that the property didbelong --MR. DELLINGER: Well, you -- you did decide inPhillips that the interest was property, but you have tolook to what the value is. QUESTION: Somebody's property or the property of -- of the --MR. DELLINGER: It is the -- it is the propertyof the client, and if there is an -- a way of getting netinterest to the client, these rules require it. Now, several of the examples suggest --QUESTION: Mr. Dellinger, does -- Washington hasthe same program as in Texas? That is, if a mistake ismade, and this money could have earned net interest, thenyou can get a refund. MR. DELLINGER: Absolutely correct. You -- you th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC inform the IOLTA program that the money could have earnednet interest, and if that's true, the interest comes toyou.Now, several of the examples were in a sensemore naked wealth transfers. What's different about thisprogram -- we've -- we've addressed the fact thatthere's -- this third element of a denial of justcompensation is missing, but I do want to address the factthat we don't believe that this is a taking because if youapply this Court's Penn Central analysis, all of thefactors point in the same direction, in addition to theabsence of investment-backed expectations.This is a program that serves an importantregulatory goal of avoiding the appearance of self-dealingby lawyers. Now, it -- it raises money for an importantcause. And we don't deny the importance of that to theprogram. It is a cause -- ensuring equal access tojustice -- which enhances confidence in the system ofjustice, and helps the petitioners and everyone else whouses that system. But the relevant regulatory interest noted bythe justices at the beginning of their process is thatwhere lawyers are placing funds of their clients in abank, and the banks are in a position to benefit the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC lawyers, you have a risk of violating one of the firstprinciples of legal ethics that lawyers are not to benefitdirectly or indirectly from their clients' funds. QUESTION: So the -- so the property can bemisused and the State can take the property. That's --that's your formulation. MR. DELLINGER: That is not the formulation. The -- the funds have to be taken from the bank. Theycan't remain with the bank because of the serious ethicalproblem that was noted in the briefing to the justicesthat the banks are earning interest and providing benefitsto the very lawyers, or in the case the real estate escrowagents who placed the money there. If you can'teconomically return it to the client, if that cannot --if that is not economically feasible, and you can't ethically leave it with the bank, then it has to gosomewhere. It doesn't have to go to IOLTA. It has to goto some charitable use to avoid this ethical problem. QUESTION: Why can't -- why can't the privatesystem design mechanisms so that clients and attorneys candesignate the cause to which they want it to go? Then,they're having control over their property.MR. DELLINGER: Well, there are two problemswith that kind of -- of client control. One is the taxconsequences to the client. If the client directs where th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC the funds go, the interest would be attributable to theclient. And secondly, if you --QUESTION: Well, I suppose if the clientdesignated a charity, that would be a charitablededuction. Maybe or maybe not. MR. DELLINGER: That's correct. It -- it --I think that goes to the right to control, and thegovernment often regulates the right to control one'sproperty, particularly in a heavy -- heavily regulatedindustry such as banking. QUESTION: Mr. Dellinger, in -- in that --I want to get clear on that example. If there were such adesignation, leaving the tax consequence aside, isn't --isn't it true on the facts under the Washington scheme that the cost of identifying the amount that would go tothe charity would be greater than that amount so that, ineffect, ultimately the -- the charity would net nothing,there would be no tax, a tax return would have to be filedsaying zero. Is -- is that right?MR. DELLINGER: That is -- that is preciselyright. Now, if you -- if you choose to have a law firmdo your transaction, but the client says, I want someother escrow agent, and not the lawyer, then you don't get th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC into IOLTA. But here, I think we have a dispositive flaw inthat there is simply no just compensation. And the reasonthere is no compensation is that it's actually quitecomplicated to track and allocate all of these funds. It may seem counterintuitive that you can't allocate thatinterest back. But in Texas, for example, if you look at,I think, footnote of the -- of the brief of Statebars, in Texas, where they made $. million, it was on, attorneys' trust accounts that may have had as manyas million discrete deposits. And if we're wrongthat -- and there's somehow you can allocate it back, youdo so. Now, the --QUESTION: Well, you could have separate funds. You could -- you could have four different funds thatattorneys could choose. You could choose Save the Whales,or help -- help litigation fee --QUESTION: Or you can have an injunction.MR. DELLINGER: It is possible but it is notrequired. I don't believe that the Fifth Amendment has adog in the fight over -- over what charitable use theState of Washington chooses when they serve this importantpurpose of making sure that there is -- that there is notthis ethical conflict. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC There are really five different ways that wecould win this case, just -- because there are so manypieces on the gameboard.You could conclude that it's not a takingprincipally because it has a valid regulatory purpose.It's not -- two, it's not a taking because ofthe absence of any real investment-backed expectations.Three, even if it's a taking, we've establishedthat zero compensation is due. Four, even if you think some compensation mightbe due, they've never gone to the State -- not a singleclient -- and tried to prove up the amount ofcompensation, which is very much in dispute if you look attheir earnings credit analysis, unlike Eastern Enterpriseswhere we knew the exact amount, it's very much in dispute whether some or all of those costs would have been bornedown. And finally, even if you reject all our otherpositions, you then reach an argument that we don't needto make because we believe in our other arguments, andthat is, why not treat this as a valid revenue measure? Unlike the bad revenue measures of Eastern Enterprises,where the State, or the Government was imposing aretroactive onerous burden on a few identifiable, knownpeople, here it's prospective, reasonably broadly based, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC and raises -- and modest in the exaction. That looks evenas a financial transaction.QUESTION: Courts have the power to tax?MR. DELLINGER: I'm sorry?QUESTION: Courts have the power to tax?MR. DELLINGER: Courts have the power -- andother agencies often -- to impose fees. That's a Statelaw issue, but whether it's an IOLTA assessment, or a userfee, or however you want to characterize it, if you lookat it like that, I'm not sure why it doesn't stand upquite well. Whenever you're talking about money, you have todecide why isn't this just a valid way for the governmentto raise money? And part of the Takings Clause shares anoverlap with the bill of attainder and the ex post facto. Are you singling out a few individuals retroactively, asJustice Kennedy focused on in Eastern Enterprises. Hereyou're not. Anybody who chooses to engage in X willpay Y. When X is a lot of people -- , in Texas --and potentially all of us who do transactions, and Y is aperfectly reasonable amount of money, nonexistent in ourview, but minimal at worst under their characterization.Thank you. QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. Dellinger. Mr. Fried, you have about minutes left. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF CHARLES FRIEDON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERSMR. FRIED: Thank you, Justice Stevens. Just a few points. First, this is not a revenuemeasure. It is not a tax. It has never been argued to bea tax. Indeed, if it were a tax, we would have nocomplaint. Indeed, it is our answer to the argumentsmade, the dog-in-the-manger argument that was made in thecourt below, and the argument made by AARP, that if thegovernment wants our money, they should get it theold-fashioned way. They should tax. Now, the court said, and AARP said, it'sinconvenient to tax because that comes with strings. That's called democracy. They don't like the strings. And so the bar association and the justices wish to acquire the money. QUESTION: May I -- I shouldn't be taking yourrebuttal time, Mr. Fried, but are you saying that if theydid this by a statute, it would be perfectly okay?MR. FRIED: No, I'm not saying that. I'm sayingthat if they did it as a --QUESTION: -- as part of the revenue code.MR. FRIED: -- as a tax -- if they did it as atax because it --QUESTION: Well, it seems to me the program was th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC exactly the same, it was adopted by a legislature, and hadthe title tax on it. MR. FRIED: Because in every jurisdiction andcertainly in the Federal Government, taxes have to jumpover certain hoops. There are institutional constraints,and it's exactly those constraints that the justices andthe bar associations want to escape. They have told usso. It's all --QUESTION: I'm not sure I know the answer to myquestion. If they did exactly what I said, would it bepermissible? MR. FRIED: It would be an entirely differentquestion. I wouldn't want to concede it, but it would bea different question, and a harder one because this Courthas granted greater leeway to tax, and the reason it has is because taxation is a recognized institutional formwith lots of institutional hurdles that the respondents donot wish to endure. They wish to do -- do an end runaround them. Now, as to the regulatory purpose here, I thinkit's sufficient to note that prior to IOLTA, there wereplenty of regulations -- both of escrow agents andlawyers -- to prevent them from self-dealing, and lawyerswere disbarred if they violated them. This IOLTA measurewas passed, and it was passed only as a way to raise funds th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC for legal services. So I think that the regulatorypurpose is an after-the-fact invention. Now, also we do not say that it is impossible tovalue the taken here -- the amounts taken. It's perfectlypossible. It's $ and $. It's simply impracticable toforce Brown and Hayes to sue for it. That's theimpracticability. It's not impossible. We do not saythat. And that's why cases like Kimball Laundry arecompletely beside the point.QUESTION: Mr. Fried, may I ask you anotherquestion that is troubling me about this, in addition tothe question of is it really the bank whose -- whoseeconomic gain has been taken? But this is a questionabout the -- the class sets involved. Now, I know thisisn't a class action, but the injunction is going to be to cover everyone in this group. And some of them may beoutraged by this and others may say, we'd much rather thatIOLTA get it than the bank. So there's somethingtroubling about an injunction that's going to cover all ofthese people who may have very diverse views about whatthey would like to see happen. MR. FRIED: Yes, and the solution for that isthe political process rather than the process of judgesand bar associations raising revenue. And under thepolitical process, the result you describe happens all the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC time. It should not happen here.QUESTION: I'm not sure I understand thatanswer. If the choice is between the banks and IOLTA, andsome of the people say we don't want to prefer the bank,we want to prefer IOLTA. You're -- you're making thechoice for them in saying, you have to prefer the bankbecause we're enjoining it. MR. FRIED: Well, we're enjoining it -- we areasking you to enjoin it because it is an illegal program. The result of the injunction, or a -- a declaration wouldbe what you described.QUESTION: Mr. Fried, you may have anotherminute if you didn't get your rebuttal through. MR. FRIED: No. I -- I think that's --JUSTICE STEVENS: Thank you. MR. FRIED: -- sufficient. I thank the Courtfor its attention. (Whereupon, at : p.m., the case in theabove-entitled matter was submitted.) th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC 