 IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - XREX R. SPRIETSMA, :ADMINISTRATOR OF THE ESTATE OF :JEANNE SPRIETSMA, DECEASED, Petitioner ::v. : No. -MERCURY MARINE. :- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - XWashington, D.C.Tuesday, October , The above-entitled matter came on for oralargument before the Supreme Court of the United States at: a.m.APPEARANCES:LESLIE A. BRUECKNER, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf ofthe Petitioner.MALCOLM L. STEWART, ESQ., Assistant to the Solicitor General, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; onbehalf of the United States, as amicus curiae,supporting the Petitioner. STEPHEN M. SHAPIRO, ESQ., Chicago, Illinois; on behalf ofthe Respondent. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC C O N T E N T SORAL ARGUMENT OF LESLIE A. BRUECKNER, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioner MALCOLM L. STEWART, ESQ.On behalf of the United States, as amicus curiae, supporting the Petitioner STEPHEN M. SHAPIRO, ESQ.On behalf of the Respondent REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OFLESLIE A. BRUECKNER, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioner PAGE th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC P R O C E E D I N G S(: a.m.)CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: We'll hear argumentnext in No. -, Rex Sprietsma v. Mercury Marine.Ms. Brueckner.ORAL ARGUMENT OF LESLIE A. BRUECKNERON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERMS. BRUECKNER: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court:The question presented in this case is whetherState common law tort claims that a boat engine wasdefective because it lacked a propeller guard arepreempted either by the Boat Safety Act of or by anunpublished Coast Guard letter stating that the agency haddecided not to take any regulatory action with respect topropeller guards. There is no express preemption here because theBoat Safety Act includes a savings clause that expresslypreserves the availability of common law claims. And inlight of this clause, this case boils down to the questionof whether our claims are impliedly preempted because theyconflict with some valid expression of Federal law. Andthe answer to this question is no for two distinctreasons.First, as the United States has argued, the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Coast Guard letter itself lacks the force of lawregardless of its content. And second, even if the Coast Guard couldpreempt State law in this fashion, there's no preemptionhere because our claims are entirely consistent with theCoast Guard's stated reasons for not taking any regulatoryaction with respect to propeller guards. QUESTION: What would happen if there were nosavings clause in this case? MS. BRUECKNER: If there were no savings clause,our position is that there would still be no expresspreemption because section of the Boat Safety Act, byits terms, in our view does not encompass common lawclaims. But the savings clause --QUESTION: Well, except that -- that this clauseis different, say, than the one we had in Geier. TheGeier clause -- savings clause begins -- or preemptionclause begins with the assumption that there is aregulation. This begins the other way. It says the Statemay not have any regulation unless it's consistent with anexisting Federal regulation. MS. BRUECKNER: That's true, Your Honor, buthere, as in Geier, reading this preemption clause asencompassing common law claims would render the savingsclause of this statute superfluous, and that is exactly th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC the result that this Court rejected in Geier.QUESTION: Well, suppose a State said there canbe a common law action in the courts of this State for theviolation of any safety regulation which this legislatureproposes, and we hereby direct that there be a propeller-- a guard on every propeller. Would that statute bevalid under -- under ? MS. BRUECKNER: In our view that statute wouldbe valid because we read as not even preempting Statepositive law, that is, laws and regulations, unlessthere's an actual Coast Guard standard. But this Courtneed not resolve that --QUESTION: But -- but doesn't require aCoast Guard standard. It -- it says that there's adisability on the State legislature unless there is aCoast Guard standard and that State statute is parallel toit. MS. BRUECKNER: Section in our view can beread -- read two different ways. One, our reading of thestatute is that it only kicks in where the Coast Guard hasregulated. The United States disagrees on this point andreads as expressly preempting all forms of Statepositive law, that is, laws and regulations, even wherethe Coast Guard hasn't regulated. But the United States and we agree that however th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC you read with respect to State positive law, commonlaw claims are preserved, and the reason is that (g)would be stripped of any meaning if is read asencompassing common law claims.QUESTION: Not -- not when -- I mean, that's whyI think yours is the better view, actually. But I mean,on your view you needn't drive a wedge between the commonlaw and positive law because there's meaning for both. MS. BRUECKNER: Absolutely, Your Honor. QUESTION: And I've never -- I guess it's abetter question for the Government. I don't see why you'dwant to drive a wedge between those two.QUESTION: Well, let's -- let's take theGovernment's position which is that the State could notpass a statute on a -- requiring a propeller -- apropeller guard. If -- if that's true, if we acceptedthat, why is it that a jury should be able to require thesame thing? MS. BRUECKNER: Because that is what Congressmade clear in section (g) that juries should be ableto do. Jury --QUESTION: Ms. Brueckner, here's -- here's myproblem with (g). You can -- it not only is a savingsclause for common law, it's also a savings clause forState law. It says it does not relieve a person from th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC liability at common law or under State law. Now, I -- Ido not know how an intelligent Congress could have --could have written such a thing. But that's what it says: at common law or under State law. Now, you can't read the savings clause portionthat says under State law to mean all State law becausethen the savings clause would totally cancel thepreemption clause. Right? MS. BRUECKNER: I agree, Justice Scalia. QUESTION: So you -- you have to limit State lawto mean, well, not all State law. And why -- why would itnot be natural to read common law also not to include allcommon law, for example, not including any common law thatspecifically imposes liability for failure to have certainpropeller standards? MS. BRUECKNER: First, Your Honor, the fact thatthis savings clause is slightly broader than that at issuein Geier, because of the reference to State law, is not areason to construe it narrowly. Second, the reference to State law can easily beunderstood as a reference to, as the statute itself says,liability imposed under State law, which we read to mean areference to State damages statutes such as wrongful deathand survival. And this case is a perfect illustration ofthat. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: Well, that really is a bit of astretch, isn't it, to say you're talking -- when you sayState law, you're only talking about wrongfully tenderedan act and that sort of thing? MS. BRUECKNER: I don't think so, Your Honor,because section (g)'s language is -- is quite clearand it is set forth at the blue brief at page . QUESTION: Well, to say it's quite clear -- itdoes not relieve a person from liability at common law orunder State law. Whatever we may come up with as themeaning of that or you may suggest, I don't think youcould say it's clear. MS. BRUECKNER: I disagree, Your Honor, becausethe reference to liability at common law or under Statelaw to my mind suggests a reference to liability underState law, and liability under State law in this contextis liability by which the measure of damages is a Statestatute, such as the wrongful death statute or thesurvival statute here that this complaint arises under.QUESTION: I guess you have a different meaningof clear than I do. MS. BRUECKNER: That -- that may be, Your Honor.I would note, however, that in -- in Cipollonethis Court noted that language exactly like this, asavings clause that specifically preserved liability at th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC common law or -- or under State law in the ComprehensiveSmokeless Tobacco Act, preserved common law claims. Thisis the same language. And again --QUESTION: Why do you need that? I mean, I'm --I'm interested. I might -- why do you need that if, infact, your interpretation of the preemption clause iscorrect? There are some regs of the Coast Guard that dopreempt positive common -- common law and positive law,and some that don't. And so the savings clause simplymakes clear that those that don't, don't. It givesmeaning to it. MS. BRUECKNER: You're absolutely right, YourHonor. do you? QUESTION: So you don't need this damages thing,MS. BRUECKNER: No, we don't, Your Honor. QUESTION: Well, no, but the savings clause sayseven those that do, don't. (Laughter.) QUESTION: I mean, isn't that the --QUESTION: No, it doesn't necessarily have to --the -- the -- I'm certain it's not clear to the contrary,but it's at least arguably to the contrary. MS. BRUECKNER: Even without the savings clause,we read section on its face as not encompassing th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC common law claims, and the main reason why, putting asidethe savings clause, is that the language of tracksthe language of section of the statute, which is theaffirmative delegation of rulemaking authority of theCoast Guard. It's on the first page of the appendix tothe blue brief. And authorizes the Coast Guard to do twothings: promulgate minimum safety standards and requireassociated equipment. And this is exactly the samelanguage that's in . QUESTION: Well, this is the kind of thing thatthe Coast Guard could require, isn't it? Propeller guard?MS. BRUECKNER: Absolutely, Your Honor, under --QUESTION: And in Arkansas Electric, I think weheld that a Federal decision to forego regulation in agiven area may imply an authoritative Federaldetermination that the area is best left unregulated andwould have as much preemptive force as a decision toregulate. Is that the situation here? Certainly the CoastGuard looked at it and decided not to regulate. Should weapply Arkansas Electric and say that's binding? MS. BRUECKNER: No, Your Honor, and here is why.This case really presents the question, putting aside the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC express preemption issue which we believe is resolved byGeier, of under what circumstances does an agency'saffirmative decision not to regulate pack a preemptivepunch such as -- so as to wipe out common law claims. Andthere are -- there are two preconditions that must be met,neither of which is present here. First, the agency's decision not to regulatemust take the form that itself possesses the force of law,and that is lacking here for reasons I'll explain in amoment. Second, the agency --QUESTION: That was the holding of ArkansasElectric; it doesn't have to take the form. MS. BRUECKNER: Actually the holding of ArkansasElectric was that there was no preemption at all in thatcase, but perhaps Your Honor is --QUESTION: Yes, but the -- the passage I read toyou indicates that a decision not to regulate can, infact, be -- have preemptive effect. MS. BRUECKNER: Yes, Your Honor, but a puredecision not to regulate or a pure agency inaction hasonly been held to exert preemptive effect in the contextof statutes that preempt the field where there's totalFederal occupation of the field. Here, however you read with respect to th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC State laws and regulations, common law claims we believeare excluded from the regulated field. Therefore, therehas to be a conflict. And for affirmative -- anaffirmative agency decision not to regulate to preemptState law under a conflict preemption analysis, there bothhas to be an agency action that possesses the force of lawand there has to be an actual conflict between theagency's underlying reasons for not regulating and thecommon law claims. And both of these criteria are absenthere. First, as the United States has argued -- and weagree -- this unpublished letter -- Coast Guard letteritself lacks the force of law. It's important to rememberhere that not only is there no agency regulation, butthere was never any rulemaking. There was never anypublication of a notice that the Coast Guard was evenconsidering --QUESTION: Let -- let me ask you this question. Let's assume a -- a hypothetical case in which the enginemanufacturer is sued and is -- and is found liable by thejury for having a propeller guard which makes the boatdifficult to turn so the boat hits the dock. It -- itcan't turn fast enough to avoid the dock. We have thatcase and it's consolidated with yours. So we have onecase where they're liable for having the guard and another th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC case where they're liable for not having the -- the guard. Would you argue the case the same way and would we have toaffirm both cases? MS. BRUECKNER: Yes, Your Honor, and -- and YourHonor's hypothetical actually illustrates my point.There's no question that a boat manufacturer could not beheld liable for installing -- could not be held -- a -- aclaim alleging that a boat manufacturer was negligent perse for installing a propeller guard couldn't be based onan existing Coast Guard regulation because the letterlacks the force of law with respect to boat manufacturers. There's no agency action here that could form the basisfor any common law claim one way or the other. QUESTION: But -- but if the manufacturer issubject to conflicting jury verdicts, as you indicate -- Isuppose we could change the hypothetical so we have twoStates, one which requires it, the other of which -- and-- and you would say those weren't preempted, either. MS. BRUECKNER: That's correct, Your Honor. And-- and this is --QUESTION: That seems to me to -- to give verylittle effect to the wording of the clause which says thata State cannot have a standard unless it's parallel to aFederal statute.MS. BRUECKNER: But it does give meaning to the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC language of section (g) which says that even where aCoast Guard has promulgated a minimum safety standard,common law liability is preserved except to the extentthat there's an actual conflict. QUESTION: But you could -- you could read that,couldn't you -- you -- you argue that to accept your -- torespondent's view would mean the savings clause has nowork to do, but the savings clause could still be forcases of negligent -- negligent operation, for cases in --of negligent -- negligence in manufacturing a piece ofequipment. So there -- there would be -- on any readingof this, there would be something saved. So -- so you --I think you have to modify your argument. The savingsclause would be nullified. MS. BRUECKNER: I respectfully disagree, JusticeGinsburg, and -- and here's why. The respondent here doescontend that the savings clause applies to breach ofwarranty and negligent manufacturing claims. And thatargument fails, first of all, because such claims are notencompassed within on its face, and therefore therewouldn't have been any need for Congress to save thoseclaims. Secondly, this Court construed a similar savingsclause in Geier as expressing Congress's intent that merecompliance with minimum safety standards would not be an th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC absolute defense to liability in a product liabilityaction. And compliance with a Coast Guard regulationestablishing a minimum safety standard could never be anabsolute defense in a case involving negligent manufactureor a breach of warranty, for example. So, therespondent's theory leaves really no meaningful role forthe savings clause to play. And I would emphasize that these arguments wereall asked and answered in Geier, and the Court held that asimilarly worded savings clause, albeit without thereference to State law, has to mean that common law claimsare not expressly preempted. Now, that doesn't mean that our claims mustnecessarily be permitted to go forward if they conflictwith Federal law, but there's clearly no conflict hereagain for two reasons. First, the Coast Guard letter lacks the force oflaw. And on that point, before turning to the reasons whyour claims are actually consistent with the Coast Guard'sstated reasons for declining to regulate, I would furthernote that not only is there no regulation, no rulemakinghere, but the Coast Guard letter was never even publishedin the Federal Register. It was never made available tothe public in any formal way whatsoever. And it doesn'teven purport to set forth a definitive agency position on th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC the subject of propeller guards. What the letter says isthat the agency is going to continue to consider thematter and gather further data. And so, this letteritself lacks the force of law. The second reason, of course, is that even ifthe Coast Guard could preempt simply by writing a letter,our claims are not inconsistent with the Coast Guard'sstated reasons for declining to regulate. The Coast Guardwas focusing on the lack of a universally acceptablepropeller guard solution, the costs of a retrofit, andsuch other matters, and there's no inconsistency betweenour claims --QUESTION: What if the Coast Guard's reason hadbeen we think putting the coast -- putting a propellerguard on would make the -- the vessel even more dangerous?MS. BRUECKNER: There would still be nopreemption here because the Coast Guard letter lacks thepower to preempt.QUESTION: Would that satisfy the secondcondition of -- of your two-prong test?MS. BRUECKNER: It would, Your Honor, but ourposition is that there still has to be a regulation andthere's no regulation here. QUESTION: Well, I understand. I'm just askingyou about the second part of your test. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MS. BRUECKNER: It would satisfy the second partof the test. Finally, I'd like to reserve the remainder of mytime for rebuttal, if I may, but I --QUESTION: Very well, Ms. Brueckner. Mr. Stewart. ORAL ARGUMENT OF MALCOLM L. STEWARTON BEHALF OF THE UNITED STATES,AS AMICUS CURIAE, SUPPORTING THE PETITIONERMR. STEWART: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court:The Coast Guard is the Federal agency chargedwith administration of the Boat Safety Act and with thepromulgation of safety standards. And to understand the Coast Guard's traditionalview of these issues and the backdrop against whichCongress legislated, it may be helpful to look to what theCoast Guard said at the time the Boat Safety Act wasproposed. And if you'll look to page of the bluebrief, this is the answer provided by the Commandant ofthe Coast Guard when he was asked, in written form,whether it was his view that compliance with Federalsafety standards would furnish a complete defense toliability under common law or State law. And he wasfurther asked, if there wouldn't be a complete defense, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC should that be made explicit in the act.And the Commandant said: we do not believe thatcompliance with promulgated standards under the act hasthe effect of relieving a manufacturer from liabilityunder the usual tort law concerning negligence orwarranties. For many --QUESTION: Go ahead. MR. STEWART: For many years the Coast Guard hasrequired compliance with standards by inspected vessels. Courts have consistently held that a vessel owner'scompliance with Coast Guard inspection requirements is notsynonymous with seaworthiness under maritime law. Thoughthe analogy is apparent, we would have no objection to anexpress provision to clarify that a manufacturer'scompliance with promulgated standards does not by itselfrelieve him of any tort liability which otherwise couldpertain. And I think the --QUESTION: Is he -- is the Commandant a lawyer?MR. STEWART: I'm not sure whether theCommandant was a lawyer, but the -- the questions weresubmitted to him in written form. He was given time toconsult with his advisors and prepare his answers.QUESTION: But the Commandant's lawyer or theCommandant might well admit that if, as Justice Ginsburg th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC pointed out, there's defective design, if -- if thepropeller falls apart and -- that then there's liability.MR. STEWART: I think -- I think what --QUESTION: So that -- this -- this thing thatyou quote us just brings us right back to where we began.MR. STEWART: Well, I think a couple of thingsare noteworthy about the way that the Commandantresponded. First, when he gave -- first, he made clear thatthe Coast Guard was familiar and was comfortable with theidea that even when it had inspected a vessel and had --the -- the vessel had passed the Coast Guard's ownregulatory standards, nevertheless there was a -- thepossibility of damages liability based on unseaworthiness.QUESTION: Would --QUESTION: What do we care whether the CoastGuard was happy? I mean, this isn't even plumbing themind of Congress. It's plumbing the mind of the CoastGuard. What do we care? MR. STEWART: Well, I think part of the argumenton the other side has been that whatever the text of thestatute might say, the Court should strain to hold commonlaw claims --QUESTION: Well, maybe. That may -- but what Idon't see here is whether he's aware of the fact which is th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC -- and I'm aware of it and you are -- that whateverstandard the Coast Guard has -- let's say you have to havea -inch wire, and what my -- they mean by that is youdon't have to a -inch wire. Okay? Absolutely clear. And there is no point in telling the State of Idaho youcan't pass a law for a -inch wire when any jury in theState of Idaho can come in with a judgment that doesprecisely the same thing as that rule. I mean, maybe thisCoast Guard Commandant doesn't care about whether it canpreempt at all, but it doesn't seem to me logical to takethe position you can't have a regulation but you can havea tort judgment that is identical. MR. STEWART: Well, first of all, the tortjudgment is not identical because it fulfills an importantpurpose that the prescriptive standard doesn't, namelycompensating people who have actually been injured byreason of defects.QUESTION: You could say we don't care if, infact, the rules that we're about to promulgate are totallyignored by the States, as long as the purpose is tocompensate someone. MR. STEWART: Well, as this Court made clear inGeier, the effect of holding that State common law suitsare not categorically preempted is not that the Federaljudgments can be ignored; that is, there's still a role th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC for principles of conflict preemption. The Court in Geiersaid the point of the savings clause would be evisceratedif common law claims were -- that were not identical toFederal standards were categorically preempted. Nevertheless, particular common law claims can conflictwith the -- the text or purposes of particularregulations. QUESTION: The Commandant didn't seem tounderstand that. In -- in your endorsement of theCommandant's statement, I thought you were disagreeingwith -- with counsel for the petitioners here who -- whodid say that there could be conflict preemption of commonlaw claims, anyway. The Commandant doesn't even seem torecognize that. MR. STEWART: I think what he is saying is wehave always understood that compliance with our regulatoryrequirements will not furnish a categorical defense tosuits at common law and we would understand the same --QUESTION: Well -- well, maybe it ought to beinterpreted, to try to make sense of this scheme, ascertainly covering the situation where the State by itscommon law doctrine tries to make a requirement that theCoast Guard has -- and the Federal Government has flatlycontradicted by regulation. That may not be this case,but if the Coast Guard were to pass a regulation saying no th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC propeller guards should be put on boats because we thinkit is more dangerous, if they have them, now we shouldinterpret the savings clause as not allowing a cause ofaction on that same ground.MR. STEWART: That's exactly right and that'sprecisely the analysis that the Court went through inGeier and it's the analysis we urge the --QUESTION: But -- but under your -- yourrationale, you say, oh, but there's a duty to compensate,and that's different. Why doesn't that same argumentapply so that you tell Justice O'Connor, oh, yes, the jurycan -- can go full speed ahead? MR. STEWART: I mean, I think the Court hasoften pointed out in various contexts that even where itcan be said that a primary goal of Congress was X, weshouldn't assume that Congress intended to pursue thatgoal at all costs. The point is simply that Congress drewa somewhat different balance with respect to common lawactions than it did with -- with respect to prescriptiverules. And I think part of the reason for that was thatCongress was establishing a mechanism by which the CoastGuard could itself promulgate prescriptive safetystandards. In ousting State law, it was replacing Statelaw with something else. But the Boat Safety Act doesn't th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC contain any mechanism by which an injured person can seekcompensation for his injuries, and therefore it wasnatural for Congress to determine that subject to conflictpreemption principles, the remedial mechanisms that hadpreviously been available should continue to be available. And I think --QUESTION: Well, maybe -- maybe it doesn't dothat much. I mean, maybe the savings clause allows causesof action for breach of warranty, for negligent operationof the boat, and things like that. MR. STEWART: I -- well, the -- the same couldhave been said of the savings clause in Geier, but theCourt, nevertheless, concluded that common law actionswere not categorically preempted. And I think the reason,as Ms. Brueckner said, was that no one could have supposedthat common law claims going to an entirely differentaspect of the manufacturer's conduct than the divine,design feature that was at issue in -- in the CoastGuard's regulatory --QUESTION: I -- I don't see how you -- you talkabout straining. All -- there is some -- number ofstatutes. They all read a little differently, but thereisn't really that much substantive difference betweenthem. And although the Court has disagreed, I've tendedto take the view, treat statutes and common law alike, and th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC probably they're not preempted either unless the agencycomes in and makes it pretty clear that they are. Now,that's pretty easy for people to follow. If they want toargue pro and con preemption, they go to the agency.MR. STEWART: I think that may --QUESTION: So wouldn't I reach that sameposition here? MR. STEWART: That -- that might be a legitimaterule to follow in the absence of statutory languageexpressly addressing the subject, but here we have oneprovision that says a State may not establish a lawrequirement of setting forth a safety standard orrequirement for associated equipment unless it isidentical to a Federal safety standard.And then in the savings clause it says -- andthis is at page App. of the blue brief -- compliancewith this chapter or standards, regulations, or ordersprescribed under this chapter does not relieve a personfrom liability at common law under State law. So whateverthat means, it has to mean there will be somecircumstances under which the manufacturer complies withall applicable Federal rules and yet is nevertheless heldliable under the common law. And --QUESTION: Very simple. In those situationswhere you -- as you just heard, the ones that the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC petitioner just argued for.QUESTION: Design defect.MR. STEWART: But -- but if -- if the same ruleof preemption were applied to common law suits as toprescriptive regulations, namely that the State couldn'tdo anything that was not identical to Federal law, itcould never be the case that a manufacturer who compliedwith Federal law could, nevertheless, be held liable atcommon law. The -- the preemption clause and the savingsclause, read together, compel the conclusion that Congressat least intended a different rule of preemption to apply.QUESTION: That's -- that's not -- that's nottrue. The Coast Guard doesn't say how the -- thepropeller should be manufactured, out of a -- an eighth ofan inch or -- or of a tenth of an inch blade. And if thesmaller blade falls apart, you can sue the manufacturer.MR. STEWART: But I -- I don't think anyonewould have contended that such a suit would be preemptedby the preemption clause even in the absence of thesavings clause.And again, this is exactly the same situationthat was before the Court in Geier. Had -- had thatargument been a sound one, the Court would presumably haveconstrued the -- the Motor Vehicle Safety Act savingsclause that was at issue there -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: Geier didn't have the same clause,and I -- I think it's a big difference when it says undercommon law or State law --MR. STEWART: But it does refer --QUESTION: -- because you -- you have todistinguish State -- not just State common law, but Statestatutes. You have to draw some line that is going toexclude State statutes as well as the common law. MR. STEWART: Well, it does refer to -- may Ifinish? QUESTION: Yes. MR. STEWART: It refers to liability under -- atcommon law or under State law, and therefore State law ismost naturally taken to be a reference to laws thataccomplish purposes similar to those of the common law.QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. Stewart. Mr. Shapiro, we'll hear from you.ORAL ARGUMENT OF STEPHEN M. SHAPIROON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTMR. SHAPIRO: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice, andmay it please the Court:I think a word of history here explains some ofthe mystery surrounding the statutory language. For over years, Congress has specified the safety equipment thathas to be installed on motorboats, and it was in that th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC this Court ruled in Kelly v. Washington that the Statesmay not impose their own requirements for safety equipmenton boats that travel in interstate waters. And that wasthe background of this legislation. This act preempts State law creating anyrequirement for boat equipment that is not identical withthe prescribed Coast Guard regulation. And this serves acritical fail-safe purpose. Risky devices like propellerguards may not be imposed on the public under State lawunless and until they're approved by the expert regulatoryagency under the criteria that Congress has laid down.Now, this preemption provision has threeexceptions which are written right into the provision, butnone of those exceptions fits this case. So my friendshave to make the argument that this general savingsclause, which says nothing about preemption, is anotherimplicit exception, but that's inconsistent --QUESTION: Unless there's just no Federalregulation at all on this.MR. SHAPIRO: And -- and --QUESTION: Maybe the Federal Government has not-- acting through the Coast Guard, has made norequirement, no decision at all. MR. SHAPIRO: And the -- the wisdom of thisstatute is that until the Coast Guard makes a decision th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC about a device like propeller guards, they may not beimposed on the public. Think of what happens under Justice Kennedy'sexample. If Illinois commands installation of thesedevices and backs up that judgment with millions ofdollars in damages, people in other States are exposedto the risks and burdens of propeller guards.QUESTION: Well, not necessarily. I mean, yousay if Illinois imposes it, I mean, this is one reason, itseems to me, that you can take the statute at -- at itsword. The common law never imposes a requirement. Thisjury found that a propeller -- that failure to have apropeller guard was negligence. Another jury in anothercase in the same State may find that the failure to have apropeller guard was not negligence. There's no Staterequirement being imposed. MR. SHAPIRO: Well, we agree with the statementin Garmon that the Court, for preemption purposes, shouldassume compliance and then ask what are the implications.The implications are that Illinois could coerce theinstallation of these devices. Another State maydisagree.QUESTION: On the basis of one jury verdict?MR. SHAPIRO: Or one or --QUESTION: It's like in tort actions in general. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC I don't see how you get from one jury verdict, that thatbecomes the positive law of the State, that you must havea propeller guard.MR. SHAPIRO: Well, after the first juryverdict, then the -- in come the claims for punitivedamages in the next case, and there is a powerful coerciveeffect from damage actions. This Court has said so.QUESTION: Mr. Shapiro, isn't it true that thereall -- aren't there -- isn't it true there are all sortsof cases in which different designs of boats may have a --be more dangerous than other designs, depending on whetherthey have a propeller guard? I notice that one of the allegations in theprayer for relief in the complaint was they provided anunreasonably dangerous design in utilizing an unprotectedpropeller. That -- as I read that, that wouldn'tnecessarily mean every boat needed a -- a propeller guard,but rather some particularly dangerous designs might needone. MR. SHAPIRO: Well, what's --QUESTION: So that you get some preemption andsome not. MR. SHAPIRO: The -- what the safety councilfound, the Coast Guard's committee of experts, was thatfor all boats that travel more than miles an hour, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC these are infeasible devices. And the reason is you haveto match the propeller guard with the particular engineand the particular hull combination. There are thousandsand thousands of hulls out there. QUESTION: But the -- the Coast Guard itselfdidn't find anything. It said we're not making thestandard now. As counsel for petitioner pointed out,there is no formal action. There's just non-action by theCoast Guard.MR. SHAPIRO: Well, the -- the Coast Guard saidthat the available accident data compiled by the experts did not support a propeller guard requirementunder the --QUESTION: But they were still watching it. They didn't make a -- a determination that propellerguards are dangerous, therefore should not be used. Theysaid we're still keeping this under advisement.MR. SHAPIRO: And in April of , they lookedat this again, and the Coast Guard representative on thesafety council said we realize we cannot mandateinstallation of propeller guards. They're not feasible,and the propeller guard subcommittee said again, thesewill increase blunt trauma injuries. QUESTION: This is something that's published,that's -- that's a formal kind of action? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. SHAPIRO: Yes. Yes, Your Honor. It's -- Ibelieve it's footnote in plaintiff's reply brief. They-- they cite to the web site for these council minutes.QUESTION: No, but did they -- did they gothrough any, in effect, administrative procedure kind offormal action? MR. SHAPIRO: Well, but under this statute, thatisn't necessary, Your Honor. It -- they -- they didhave --QUESTION: Well, it may be -- it may not benecessary in the sense that they are under an obligationto do it, but if they don't do something like that, I -- Idon't know that their -- their announcement has anyparticular status that's relevant here. MR. SHAPIRO: Well, because of the wording ofthis statute, which is so different from Geier -- it's theexact opposite of Geier -- under this statute, unlessthere's an identical Coast Guard regulation in place,State law is preempted. QUESTION: I don't see how it is so differentfrom Geier. I mean, you read it as saying if there's noregulation at all, no requirements, then the Statecouldn't have any tort law? MR. SHAPIRO: Well, as to equipment, associatedequipment, for boats, unless there's a Coast Guard th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC regulation in place, the States can't mandate thatequipment. QUESTION: All right. Then you would say, forexample -- not just that, but in your view if you had,like a propeller that shot torpedoes, I mean, somethingthat was absolutely absurd, you -- the State would not beable to have a tort judgment based on that even though theCoast Guard has never had the chance to look into it?MR. SHAPIRO: Well --QUESTION: Now, I mean, I grant you that's apossible reading. But I think perhaps a better reading of it wouldbe that you can't have a -- a rule or a regulation or atort judgment or any other requirement of law differentfrom a Coast Guard requirement when there is arequirement. MR. SHAPIRO: Your Honor --QUESTION: But not when there isn't. MR. SHAPIRO: Your Honor, we -- we think thatoverlooks the history that I began with because under thisCourt's decisions, the States could not imposerequirements for equipment or -- or construction, designor structure for boats moving in interstate waters. Thatwas Kelly v. Washington, a unanimous opinion by ChiefJustice Hughes. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: But, Mr. Shapiro, in -- in this verysetting, the Coast Guard said, when this Boat Safety Actwas new, States, until we get around to doing this, yourlaw controls. So there must have been some scope forState law regulating equipment that was there for theCoast Guard to say, it will take us time to get ourregulations. In the meantime, State law applies. Sothere must have been some law to apply in the States.MR. SHAPIRO: Oh, yes, there -- there are threeexceptions to the preemption provision. They're explicitexceptions, and we don't have to go looking to the savingsclause for a fourth, implied exception. There -- there is an exception if the CoastGuard grants an exemption under APA procedures. Theydidn't do that here. There's another exemption for local hazardousconditions, but that exception doesn't fit here either. QUESTION: But I'm talking about in the interim. It's from -- what was it -- ' to '?MR. SHAPIRO: Yes, Your Honor. QUESTION: The rules that applied were Staterules because the Coast Guard said, States, your lawcontrols while we haven't got any yet.MR. SHAPIRO: That's the key point, Your Honor. That was done by formal exemption, and that shows that th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC this statute has the exceptions built right intopreemption provision.QUESTION: But it shows that there must havebeen State law. You -- you -- I thought you were sayingit's been forever or for a very long time that onlyFederal law sets the standards.MR. SHAPIRO: Yes.QUESTION: The Coast Guard must have thoughtthere were standards in existence that could be applied.MR. SHAPIRO: What -- what was happening,according to the legislative history, is the States werebeginning to require battery covers, anchors, lines, andother pieces of associated equipment, including warningdecals on the boats, and Congress says, this has to stop.There's nothing wrong with these requirements, but wecan't have sets of them. So this field is beingpreempted for associated equipment requirements until theCoast Guard adopts a regulation or the Coast Guard givesan exemption, which it did in . And I think the structure is very important. This is so different from Geier. There was not astructure like this with three exceptions written rightinto the statute, and to treat the savings clause, whichdoesn't say a word about preemption and which thelegislative history says is simply a matter of State law th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC defenses, as a fourth, implied exception to preemptiontruly does violence to the structure of this law.QUESTION: Well, what do you --QUESTION: How do you treat the savings clause? What -- what do you think it means? MR. SHAPIRO: It does not address preemption atall. It addresses an affirmative defense that it -- thatcould be available under State law. That's the defense ofcompliance with Coast Guard regulations or orders or anyprovision of this entire statute. Now, section C of the Restatement of Torts --this is an echo of section C which was published just afew years before Congress passed the savings provision. It doesn't deal with preemption at all. It deals with --with compliance. QUESTION: Right. To make this clear, would youidentify the kinds of cases that you envision at State lawthat this clause, in effect, says you may not defendconclusively by claiming compliance with a Coast Guardreg? What kinds of cases? MR. SHAPIRO: It has a huge scope of operation,unlike Geier. To start with the Coast Guard's example,the ordinary negligence case, negligent operation was veryimportant to Congress because most of these propelleraccidents occur because of negligent operation or reckless th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC operation of the boat. That's what the Coast Guard sayson its web site today. And so the defendant couldn'tdefend by saying, gee, my boat complies with all the CoastGuard regulations --QUESTION: Okay. No, no, I understand yourpoint. But you've got negligent operation and what --what else do you have in mind? MR. SHAPIRO: The -- the next thing the CoastGuard referred to is express warranty. The defendantcouldn't say simply because I've complied with this longlist of Coast Guard requirements, I don't have to honor mycontractual promises or --QUESTION: Okay. How about negligentmanufacture?MR. SHAPIRO: Negligent installation iscertainly covered, and defective manufacture is alsoprotected by the savings clause. That's when a particularunit comes off the assembly line and it's defective. Those were the original tort cases --QUESTION: I -- I suppose there would be someclose cases. Suppose there's two ways to make apropeller. One is to have it slightly canted with ateflon cover and -- and a gear mechanism that makes itstop the minute it hits a hard object. The other is thecheaper way, to make it terribly sharp and no -- no th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ability to stop. Could the injured party sue themanufacturer of the second kind, the -- the cheap,dangerous kind of propeller?MR. SHAPIRO: It is possible and for thisreason. The language of the statute for associatedequipment only preempts requirements for associatedequipment. And that could be construed to mean simplyrequirements to install propeller guards, which you've notinstalled. Now, if you took a different interpretation ofrequirements for, it might encompass that case, but thisCourt could give a narrow construction to requirementsfor. And this case is the paradigm case becausemanufacturers have decided not to use this kind of safetyequipment because they know it's a hazard. It's a knownhazard. Several courts have disapproved these devices. safety experts of the Coast Guard have pointed out thedangers this creates. So manufacturers have consciously-- QUESTION: Mr. Shapiro, I'm not sure youanswered my question before. Again, supposing percentof the boats really don't need a propeller guard, usingthe reasoning of the committee that decided not torecommend. But there are percent that are some exotic th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC design that's particularly dangerous and they really aredangerous unless they have a -- a propeller guard on them. Could you say that -- that percent has to be treatedlike the percent? MR. SHAPIRO: Well, because the manufacturerdoesn't know --QUESTION: Well, it's the design. I'm justtalking about a particular design --MR. SHAPIRO: Yes.QUESTION: -- that seems to be particularlyhazardous if you had the propeller too close to the personoperating the boat or something like that. MR. SHAPIRO: Well, the reason that's preemptedand that that is a requirement for associated equipment,even in the case that you give, is because themanufacturer has no idea what hull is going to be puttogether with this motor. The motor can move from hull tohull to hull. And what the Coast Guard found -- the -- thecommittee found in its report was that you have to have anexact hydrodynamic fit between the particular engine andthe particular hull and the particular propeller guard. So if juries, say, impose propeller guards on -- ondesigns we think are dangerous --QUESTION: Yes, but what if the manufacturer of th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC the propeller is on notice that it's being -- was beingpurchased for a particularly dangerous design, as I'vedescribed? It seems to me sometimes the -- the companycould know what kind of boats it's going on.MR. SHAPIRO: Well, we -- we rely on the logicof this committee report which says that -- that for allplaning boats that go miles an hour or faster, thesedevices are counterproductive because they interfere withsteering. They double the amount of fuel that's consumed. They increase air and water pollution and they createserious hazards of blunt trauma injury. So what the -- the committee found was thatthese devices for any category of planing boat -- and herewe have a boat that goes miles an hour. We've got an-foot ski boat with a horsepower engine. QUESTION: But you could -- it seems to me as amatter of defense to tort liability, you could put allthat evidence in, and say in this particular case, ourdesign was sensible for the very reasons you justdescribed. Therefore, we're not negligent. MR. SHAPIRO: Well, that's true in many of thesepreemption cases, but all it takes is an errant juryverdict or two or three to coerce a decision by themanufacturer to install devices that are very hazardous tothe public. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: Then all you'd have to do is go tothe Coast Guard and say, look what's happened, and thenthey'd be explicit, if you're right. And the other sidethere would have a chance to argue to the Coast Guard thatyou're not right. MR. SHAPIRO: Justice Breyer, that's coldcomfort. They would hand us this brief that they've justsubmitted saying that it's up to the jury to decidewhatever the jury wants. QUESTION: Well, fine. If that's the policy ofthe Coast Guard, then I don't see why you should rely uponthem for preemption.MR. SHAPIRO: Well, because Congress had adifferent vision. Congress was going with the rule ofKelly, Kelly against Washington. QUESTION: Well, why did Congress then sayminimum standards? It didn't say the Coast Guardstandards are necessarily adequate. It just said, CoastGuard, set minimum standards.MR. SHAPIRO: Well, the legislative history isvery explicit on that. The boating associations and themanufacturers associations had all kinds of very elaboratestandards of their own, and everybody said during thesehearings that is to be encouraged. We want them to domore of that. The statute shouldn't stop that. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC But there was no suggestion that the States couldintervene and impose their own standards and their ownrequirements. And in fact, in the Ray decision, thisCourt said minimum standards under another similar statutedo not mean -- do not mean that the States can embroideron and supplement those -- those standards. And after all, the preemption provision heredoesn't say anything about minimum standards or maximumstandards. It says all requirements for boat safetyequipment are preempted unless there is an identical CoastGuard regulation in place. This is the rule of Kellyagainst Washington which --QUESTION: Mr. Shapiro, do you cite Kellyagainst Washington in your brief? MR. SHAPIRO: We did not. Plaintiffs cited itin their brief. It's U.S. And I'll give the Courtthe cite. I think it's critically important. U.S. at through . QUESTION: It's critically important, but youdidn't even cite it. MR. SHAPIRO: Well, it's quoted in the casesthat we do cite. It's quoted in the Ray decision. It's a-- it's an early precursor of Ray and in Locke. I wasexplaining it as -- as the background of Congress'slegislation here. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC And I'd like to suggest to the Court that itmakes a huge difference here that this is a case thatarises in the maritime context. At a minimum, themaritime context means there is no presumption againstpreemption, as the court below held. And because Congresswanted to achieve uniformity --QUESTION: Well, I mean, that may be true ifyou're talking about commercial boating, but it's not trueof recreational boating. MR. SHAPIRO: Oh, yes, it is. We believe it is,Your Honor, because this Court --QUESTION: Little motorboats? MR. SHAPIRO: Absolutely.QUESTION: -foot skiffs and little put-puts?MR. SHAPIRO: Since the 's and the 's, thisCourt, and later in Foremost and in Sisson, this Court hasheld that recreational boats fall squarely within themaritime jurisdiction. QUESTION: Even in New Hampshire? (Laughter.) MR. SHAPIRO: I -- there may be some carve-outfor New Hampshire in this statute. (Laughter.) MR. SHAPIRO: And I've tried to figure out thereasons for that carve-out, and I've never -- I've never th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC understood those. But this is maritime context, and this lake --the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit has heldthat is -- it's a navigable interstate body of water.QUESTION: Yes, because it -- it happens to lieon the border between two States, but not every landlockedlake is subject to -- to Coast Guard maritimejurisdiction. MR. SHAPIRO: Oh, absolutely not. It has to bean interstate body of water. But since the s, this Court has held thatinterstate waterways are subject to the maritimejurisdiction.And this waterway, by the way, was constructedby the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers. It's surrounded withmarinas that rent pleasure boats, and this is bigbusiness, the pleasure boating business, on Dale HollowLake. And because this is a maritime context, thatsays a lot about the savings clause, because this Courthas held that in maritime cases, savings clauses should beinterpreted narrowly to avoid obstructing the carefullyconstructed preemption provision in the statute and toavoid making an end run around the Coast Guard's expertsupervision, which is what Congress wanted. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC And we go further and say that because the courtbelow was right in characterizing this as an admiraltycase, any conflict between Illinois law and Federal law isjust imaginary. That's because Federal common law followsFederal maritime jurisdiction, and there can't be --QUESTION: But you didn't argue that. I mean,in Illinois -- all through the Illinois State courts, theassumption was that the -- the law to be applied, if youcould have a common law, would be Illinois common law, notsome Federal maritime common law.MR. SHAPIRO: Well, the Illinois Supreme Courtagreed with us on this point. They have two pages intheir opinion --QUESTION: They -- all they said is that the --the preemptive force is different. They did not say thatIllinois common law was displaced. That is, if there isState law to -- if there is law other than the Coast Guardregulations to apply, it was Illinois State law all -- allalong. And as far as I know, it wasn't until this Courtthat you raised the question, never mind State law, theFederal maritime law would control in any event.MR. SHAPIRO: Well, we think this is an includedquestion. It was certainly addressed by the court below.The court below cited this Court's Jensen decision, whichis the leading maritime preemption decision. And it was th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC using maritime analysis to support the preemption holdingthat the court ultimately made. Now, this was step numberone in our preemption argument below, but we're entitledto elaborate it in this Court and cite additional cases.QUESTION: Well, why was the argument thatIllinois law is preempted, why was that at issue at allif, as you say, there is no State law in this area? It'sall Federal. MR. SHAPIRO: Well, we -- we proceeded to arguein the alternative that under express preemption and undera conflict preemption that -- that State law waspreempted. But with a two-page discussion in this opinionon maritime, I think it is an addressed and includedquestion. And if the Court doesn't consider --QUESTION: Did you -- in your -- in the briefingof this case in the State court, did you make the argumentFederal law covers the waterfront? There is no State lawto apply?. MR. SHAPIRO: We made the first part of theargument. We said Federal law covers the waterfrontbecause Congress conceived of this as a maritime questionand was preempting State law broadly, exerting itstraditional, under Kelly against Washington, the usualFederal Government role over equipment installed onmotorboats. And we said that this is an enclave of th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Federal law. And we cited this Court's Yamaha decisionand we cited the Foremost decision. We cited admiraltycases and we said it was an admiralty case. QUESTION: But Yamaha said that this is an openquestion, and it didn't resolve it. MR. SHAPIRO: Right, but our -- my point is thatwe were citing this Court's admiralty decisions. And thenthe Illinois Supreme Court went further and cited a hostof additional admiralty decisions. Now, when you havethat kind of discussion in a State court opinion of aFederal law issue, this Court, I believe, can reach thatas an included question and it's an intertwined question. And let me suggest it is the easiest way toresolve and the narrowest way to resolve this case becauseit is propeller guard-specific. It makes no aggressivelaw regarding tort claims on -- on the land, and --QUESTION: But, Mr. Shapiro, the SolicitorGeneral disagrees with you on this point.MR. SHAPIRO: The Solicitor General hasn'tbriefed this point, the maritime law point.QUESTION: I -- I thought his brief said hethought they're wrong on the presumption going the otherway. I'm pretty sure that's in his brief. MR. SHAPIRO: Well, I don't think --QUESTION: Are you suggesting that if this th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC action had been in Lake Geneva, Wisconsin, instead ofwhere it was, you'd have a different result or you mighthave a different result? MR. SHAPIRO: I think you'd have the sameresult, but you would have fewer reasons for reaching thatsame result. QUESTION: The argument you're making now wouldnot apply. MR. SHAPIRO: It would not apply. It wouldapply to -- to Lake Michigan but not to Lake Geneva. Now, I'd like -- like to return to JusticeKennedy's comment about the conflicting judgments amongState courts. If -- if Illinois were to mandate propellerguards and back up the judgment with millions of dollarsin damages, that would impose these devices on all thepeople in the United States, and at everybody's estimate,these are risky devices with serious problems. And in thenext case in another State, we would be sued forinstalling these devices. The Walt Disney World was sued. They put alittle propeller guard on a bumper boat and they were suedwhen a kid's arm got caught in the propeller guard. Sosure as can be, if -- if one State mandates them, the nextState is going to penalize them. And the legislatures of the State -- this is the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC worst and most shocking aspect of this theory. Thelegislatures of the States could not protect theircitizens against --QUESTION: I don't see that, Mr. Shapiro. Idon't know why the Illinois State legislature couldn't saythat our State law is the Coast Guard's standards andnothing else. A State legislature could see that thiskind of result of a jury never happens again. The Statewould be free to say precisely that whatever the CoastGuard includes is the law, and what they haven't included,it can't be required. The State legislature could enactsuch a law. I don't see why it couldn't. MR. SHAPIRO: What it -- what it could not enactis a law that says no boats coming into the State ofIllinois or California may be equipped with propellerguards. Why? Because that's not identical with the CoastGuard regulation. And yet, the juries in various States could beimposing these devices. People could be losing theirlives and boats --QUESTION: Why couldn't a State legislature say,satisfaction of the minimum standards prescribed by theCoast Guard excludes any other liability for designdefects? MR. SHAPIRO: Well -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: Why couldn't the State legislaturesay that? MR. SHAPIRO: I think that that may well be asafety standard in disguise, but it -- the State could notdo the thing that it really had to do which was toprohibit boats using propeller guards. If -- if juries invarious parts of the United States put pressure onmanufacturers to put propeller guards on their boats, thelegislature needs the power to say no, this can't comeinto the -- can't come into the State. But that isclearly preempted under the SG's interpretation of thestatute.And I think that is a true disservice tofederalism, to have these kinds of conflicting judgments,and it shows the wisdom of Congress's architecture in thisstatute, that the States may not impose requirements forpropeller guards unless and until the Coast Guard vetsthese proposals, finds that they're safe, finds that theysatisfy Federal criteria of feasibility and safety, andadopts the rule and a regulation. It's like FDA legislation, protect the publicagainst common law claims of this sort that could havesuch serious adverse effects on the public. QUESTION: Well, you -- you say that -- that inthe situation you -- where you have the conflicting jury th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC verdicts, which I agree is a problem, you go to the CoastGuard and tell them that, and they just say, oh, that'stoo bad. We don't care. They might not say that, ofcourse. But -- but if they did say that, that's whyCongress insisted that you have this identicalrequirement. That's your view. MR. SHAPIRO: Yes. QUESTION: But suppose they do just refuse tohave any requirement. I mean, that's equally absurd tome. On the one hand, you point to one absurdity one way,but it seems equally absurd to have no law in the areawhere the Coast Guard just refuses to act. MR. SHAPIRO: The -- there's a good reason forrefusing to act in this instance, and that is, thesedevices are very hazardous. You can't turn the boatsafely. There's a danger of blunt trauma injury that isworse than the propeller slices. A surgeon can slice uppropeller slices occasionally, but the blunt trauma injuryfrom a propeller guard is lethal if it hits you in thechest or in the head.And it -- it -- the steering is interfered with. You have to double the horsepower of these engines onceyou put a big bird cage around or a big circle around thepropeller guard. There -- there are thousands of poundsper square inch of pressure exerted on these propeller th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC guards, and they create a serious navigation hazard. And it -- it isn't just the committee that in concluded that these were dangerous. These were experts on safety appointed by the Secretary ofTransportation that assigned all these dangers andfeasibility problems. And this is exactly, by the way, what sevencourts have held who've looked on -- at propeller guardson the merits. They've held that these devices are notfeasible and that they're dangerous. There's not a singlecourt in the United States that has said that these haveto be installed. And so, this is the problem, the real worldproblem, of having individual juries listen to those wholost before the administrative forum on propeller guards. Okay, we're going to start all over again in the courtsystem, and now we're going to get juries to startcommanding installation of propeller guards. There's areal world hazard, a danger for the public, and Congresshas wisely drafted this statute to protect us and ourchildren against that risk. Now, these devices clearly raise policy concernsof nationwide significance and that's why the Coast Guardhad to consider these issues in proceedings around thecountry that lasted for months. Many sectors of th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC society are affected by these devices, and Congress justdid not intend that individual juries were going to makethese decisions for the whole country. This would beextraterritorial regulation with a vengeance, just whatthis Court said in Locke should not be done under Statelaw. Now, my friend also has argued in the brief thatsafety is the goal of the Boat Safety Act, and thatuniformity is just a secondary concern. But Congress didpursue its safety agenda through a particular method, andthat was uniform standards for marine equipment. Congresswanted the whole Nation to benefit from safe and efficientstandards, and it wanted the whole Nation to be protectedagainst standards and requirements that represent riskyexperiments. And that's just what propeller guards are.And that's why the Coast Guard said in that thesestandards have to meet stringent Federal criteria beforethey're imposed. And that does bring us back to congressionalintent because when Congress passed this preemptionprovision, the States were starting to adopt requirementsfor battery covers and for warning placards on boats andfor lines and anchors. And Congress said, that's fine,but we can't have sets of these requirements. We'vegot to be uniform set of these requirements. And it is th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC untenable to conclude that although the harbor master atBelmont Harbor cannot compel the installation of propellerguards, the Circuit Court of Cook County is perfectly freeto do that with a big threat of damages. Both of theseare exercises of Illinois law and they're both preempted.We accordingly urge this Court to affirm thedecision of the Illinois Supreme Court. QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. Shapiro. Ms. Brueckner, you have minutes remaining.REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF LESLIE A. BRUECKNERON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERMS. BRUECKNER: Your Honor, the -- the maritimeargument was waived. The reason the United States neverbriefed it is that respondents didn't even raise it intheir opposition brief to this Court. It was never raiseduntil they filed their brief on the merits. This is notthe time or place to decide the issue raised byrespondent, particularly the Yamaha question that wasspecifically left reserved in Justice Ginsburg's opinion. On the savings clause, their whole argument isthat the savings clause must be read simply to preservebreach of warranty and negligent installation claims. Notonly is this not supported by the language of the clause,which is itself broad, but the legislative history of theBoat Safety Act in the Senate report -- let's forget about th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC the Commandant for the time being. The Senate reportstates -- and I'm quoting from the blue brief at --that the purpose of this section to assure that in aproduct liability suit mere compliance with the minimumstandards promulgated under the act will not be a completedefense to liability. This demonstrates that Congress hadin mind product liability actions just like this one.Respondent also claims that these boats are --are terribly -- that propeller guards are terriblyhazardous and the Coast Guard has found this. Well, firstof all, the Coast Guard letter doesn't say anything aboutthe hazards of propeller guards. And contrary to Mr. Shapiro's contention, inApril , the Coast Guard's advisory committee issued --stated in its minutes a recommendation that the CoastGuard actually require propeller guards as one of fourpermitted options on boats exactly like this one. This is-- the cite is on page , footnote of the yellowbrief. So not only did the Coast Guard not find in that propeller guards are hazardous, but it's consideringrequiring them on boats just like this one.On the conflicting judgments point, Mr. Shapiroraises the specter of conflicting jury verdicts in thesecases and Congress cannot possibly have intended thatresult. That's exactly the result that Congress permitted th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC in the context of motor vehicles where, absent a Federalsafety standard, the States are -- juries are permitted toimpose whatever liability they choose. And even wherethere's a minimum standard, under Geier, jury verdicts maybe permitted to go forward. But if -- and indeed there are conflicting juryverdicts that arise, the Coast Guard can step into thebreach, and as Justice Ginsburg suggested, Statelegislatures could pass a rule saying that no liabilitycould be imposed in cases like this one.I would also point out on this conflicting juryverdict problem that we are not seeking punitive damagesin this case. Punitive damages are not available inIllinois in a wrongful death action. Finally, I would note that the absence of aregulation is itself reason to find no preemption here. This statute, as we read it, provides that common lawclaims may be permitted to go forward unless there's aconflict. Here there's no regulation. There's no formalstatement of agency purposes. There's no articulatedreasons that our claim could possibly conflict with.And finally, at the end of the day, we have avictim here who would be left without any compensationwhatsoever if this Court holds that common law claims arepreempted. We would urge this Court to permit our claims th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC to proceed.Thank you. CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: Thank you, Ms.Brueckner.The case is submitted. (Whereupon, at : a.m., the case in theabove-entitled matter was submitted.) th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC 