 IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XJPMORGAN CHASE BANK, Petitioner ::v. : No. -TRAFFIC STREAM (BVI) INFRASTRUCTURE LIMITED ::- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XWashington, D.C.Wednesday, April , The above-entitled matter came on for oralargument before the Supreme Court of the United States at: a.m.APPEARANCES:SARAH L. REID, ESQ., New York, New York; on behalf ofthe Petitioner.JEFFREY P. MINEAR, ESQ., Assistant to the SolicitorGeneral, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; onbehalf of the United States, as amicus curiae,supporting the Petitioner.CRAIG J. ALBERT, ESQ., New York, New York; on behalf ofthe Respondent. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC C O N T E N T SORAL ARGUMENT OF SARAH L. REID, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioner ORAL ARGUMENT OFJEFFREY P. MINEAR, ESQ.On behalf of the United States, as amicus curiae,supporting the Petitioner ORAL ARGUMENT OFCRAIG J. ALBERT, ESQ.On behalf of the Respondent REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OFSARAH L. REID, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioners PAGE th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC P R O C E E D I N G S(: a.m.)CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: We'll hear argumentnext in Number -, JPMorgan Chase Bank v. TrafficStream.Ms. Reid.ORAL ARGUMENT OF SARAH L. REIDON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERMS. REID: Mr. Chief Justice and may it pleasethe Court:The alienage diversity statute provides that theFederal courts have original jurisdiction in civil actionsbetween citizens of different States and citizens who aresubjects of a foreign State where the matter incontroversy exceeds $,. The question presented todayis whether respondent, Traffic Stream (BVI) InfrastructureLimited, a corporation incorporated under the laws of theBritish Virgin Islands, qualifies as a subject of the United Kingdom within the meaning of that statute. Petitioner, JPMorgan Chase Bank, submits it clearly does.It is well-settled that the term, citizens andsubjects, applies to corporations and not just naturalpersons. It is also not controversial that a subject isone who owes allegiance to and is under the protection ofa foreign State. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: Is this a question of Federal law?MS. REID: In terms of looking to the matter ofthe subject?QUESTION: In determining who is a citizen orsubject of a foreign State, or whether a corporation inthis instance is a citizen or subject? Is that a Federallaw question?MS. REID: Yes, Your Honor, we would submit itis in the first instance, but in saying that we must thenlook at the nature of the relationship and look at theforeign State which is asserting the sovereignty, andcertainly that is a matter that we should considercarefully. In this case, the United Kingdom has clearlyexpressed its sovereignty over respondent and over theother residents and corporations of its overseasterritories.QUESTION: When you say the United Kingdom hasexpressed its sovereignty, Ms. Reid, do you mean thatyou're looking at their statutes, or that their diplomaticrepresentatives have made a representation?MS. REID: Both, both the fact that they haveintervened as an amicus in this and in other cases, butalso, particularly in the case of respondent, if one looksat the BVI constitution enacted in , it is enacted asa result of the act of parliament and the order of th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC parliament, and it reserves expressly all power to theCrown ultimately, and it is only from the Crown that thelaw is then delegated to the elected legislative council. Each member of whom must swear allegiance to the Crown andto the Queen.The United Kingdom reserves the right to review,approve, and ultimately disapprove any statute that isenacted in the British Virgin Islands, which is a rightthat they do exercise. In this case, therefore, theenabling or enacting statute which, under which respondentis incorporated, is a direct result of the authoritygranted from the Crown, so I would argue it is not just amatter of the diplomatic relationship and the fact thatthe United Kingdom is the external face for the BritishVirgin Islands in terms of matters of defense andinternational relations, but also the fact that all law isderived ultimately from the Crown.QUESTION: Ms. Reid, every corporation must beformed under the law of some sovereign, and if that'sright, a corporation just can't generate itself.Is there any corporation that is formed underthe law of some sovereign other than the United States notincluded within , or is this just a very simple casewhere every foreign corporation of course is organizedunder the law of some State, and therefore would qualify. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Does your case involve anything more than that?MS. REID: I would say, Your Honor, in percent of the cases, that you're right. I suppose it isconceivable that you would have corporations organized bysomeone who declares they are sovereign of some islandsomewhere, but no one recognizes them as a sovereign, andthe United States would say, we know nothing of thisperson, and know they can't be --QUESTION: Then the United States would also saythat that's not a corporation.MS. REID: Right, exactly.QUESTION: So I think you could say in percent of the cases if we acknowledge it as acorporation, it will have been formed under the law ofsome State.MS. REID: I would agree, Your Honor.QUESTION: And I suppose even as to naturalpersons in this sort of eccentric island in the realworld, if we did not recognize their claim to individualsovereignty or nationality, in the real world I assumethey would be subject to some other national sovereign andthey'd by that virtue, by virtue of that be swept up underthe term, citizen or subject, wouldn't they?MS. REID: I would agree.QUESTION: Yes. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: Let's assume -- and I'm not sure thatthis is an actual proposition of international law, that asubject of a sovereign has a special duty to obey the lawsof that sovereign. A United States citizen in China has aspecial obligation to obey the laws of the United Statesthat a British subject does not. Does this corporationhave a special obligation to obey the laws of GreatBritain in any greater degree than it has the obligationto obey the laws of any other sovereign to whom it mightbecome --MS. REID: Yes, Your Honor.QUESTION: -- subject?MS. REID: An analogy, though, not completelyperfect, but it -- you know, JPMorgan Chase is acorporation organized under the laws of the State of NewYork. It obviously has to follow the laws of the State ofNew York, but it also has obligations that it has tofollow under our Federal law.QUESTION: Yes.MS. REID: Similarly, a corporation set up underthe laws of applicable overseas territories in the firstin stance, of course, must follow the laws of theirlegislative district, but they must also abide by agreed-upon laws and conventions of the United Kingdom, and thatis specifically an issue in the Caribbean, where there are th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC certain financial disclosure, which is mandated in partthrough the relationship, constitutional relationshipbetween the United Kingdom --QUESTION: Where can we document the propositionthat you've just stated? What do I look to? MS. REID: To a certain extent, the treaty,that -- for example the Narcotics Enforcement Treaty. There are also the United Kingdom -- the one I'm thinkingof is their recent overruling on the homosexuality, whichwe cited only to a newspaper article in our brief, willdemonstrate that.The best sites are the web sites for the BVI andfor the United Kingdom, which detail the relationshipbetween these two entities, also the white paper we citedto Your Honor written in, I believe, , goes into greatdetail about the relationships between the overseasterritories and the United Kingdom, what the authority andsovereignty the United Kingdom has --QUESTION: No more established authority likeBlackstone, or --MS. REID: Not that we have cited to Your Honor,though in many ways there are parliamentary debates thatyou can access concerning -- which are referenced in thewhite papers -- concerning the relationships between theoverseas territories and the Queen, which were quite th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC reminiscent of the debates before the American Revolutionin terms of virtual representation and --QUESTION: If we were dealing with a privateindividual rather than a corporation, do you think therecould be a stateless person who wouldn't fit under thisstatute?MS. REID: In very, very rare instances, andthose instances are where the individual had eitherrenounced their citizenship, which has on occasionoccurred, or where they have been, you know, exiled, andhave not yet acquired citizenship somewhere else, and wewould submit that the cases cited by the Matimak Courtdeal with those kinds of statelessness.QUESTION: Suppose that kind of person thatJustice O'Connor and you just discussed, a true statelessperson, is temporarily in a port of Australia, SanFrancisco, or Monterey, Mexico, can it be saidconsistently with the statute here in question that theyare at least temporarily subject to the laws of Australiawhile they are there, because they're stateless and theyhave no other higher obligation, so they're thensubject --MS. REID: No. I would submit that what subjectto you must mean is that you have an allegiance to asovereign, and the sovereign in turn has an obligation to th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC you, including protection.QUESTION: It's not subject to. The phrase issubject of, isn't it?MS. REID: Yes, of a --QUESTION: Everybody living in a country issubject to the laws of that country, and presumably to theGovernment of that country, but they are not necessarily asubject of that country.MS. REID: That is true, Your Honor.QUESTION: So there can be stateless persons whoare not within the clause.MS. REID: Yes.QUESTION: And the reason you take thatposition, I take it, is that the impetus for theconstitutional grant was in effect to keep countries fromgetting mad, rather than for purposes of extendingjurisdiction as such to everyone who one might want to suein a Federal court.MS. REID: Right. I mean, we have argued thatthere were two impetuses. One is the prevention offoreign entanglements by providing a neutral Federalforum, and the other was the promotion of commerce.QUESTION: I must say, I didn't understand whatyou mean by foreign entanglements. Are you talking aboutthe foreign entanglements that George Washington warned us th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC against?MS. REID: The --QUESTION: I mean, like alliances with France,or things like that? What --MS. REID: No. The foreign entanglements, whenone looks back at the Framers' discussion, seem toenvision that if the British debt could not be collectedwe might find ourselves back in another war.QUESTION: We don't want to make them mad.MS. REID: We didn't want to make them mad.QUESTION: Okay.MS. REID: That, I think, was the entanglementthat they were worried about.QUESTION: It's a strange term for it, then.MS. REID: And just briefly on the issue of thepromotion of commerce, I wanted to make the point thatJPMorgan Chase Bank and the financial market, you know,considered the Matimak decisions as ones who havepotentially very deleterious effects on internationalcommerce.QUESTION: Well, why? Aren't New York courts --this is not a question of saying for our corporation youcan't enter U.S. court. They can enter a New York Statecourt, and those courts are pretty savvy about commercialmatters, are they not? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MS. REID: Absolutely, and I practice beforethem frequently, but the perception on the part offoreign -- foreigners is that the Federal system is one inwhich procedures are uniform across the country, and a --with predictability, perhaps, that is more a matter ofperception than of reality.QUESTION: I know Alabamans who are afraid ofNew York courts.(Laughter.)MS. REID: And vice versa.QUESTION: But it is a little different fromwhat it was in the days of the post revolution, when theBritish creditor said State courts are simply going to letthem collect on their debts.MS. REID: That's true. In this particularcase, the reason in large part that it was decided to gointo Federal courts is simply because we wanted to get asspeed a resolution as possible, and the State court systemhas interlocutory appeals, which is just the way thesystem works, and -- but it does often lead to additionaldelay and we had noteholders who were insistent that wetry and get our collateral back as soon as possible. QUESTION: Anyway, you -- I think no one hassuggested a dynamic interpretation of , so that if theoriginal rationale is not as strong today as it was then, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC that somehow the meaning of would change.MS. REID: No. I think it's -- the -- clearlythe United Kingdom at this point is, I guess one could sayat best, annoyed by this continuing refusal to recognizetheir sovereignty over these types of entities, and thefact is that you know, they have submitted an amicus briefhere, several other amicus briefs, two diplomatic notes,so that the fear of the Framers of having an entanglementof some sort with an ally is still, I think, valid today.QUESTION: No other circuit has followed theSecond Circuit, have they?MS. REID: No. The Third Circuit has splitexplicitly. The Fourth and the Seventh Circuit have alsodisagreed, though not -- they didn't discuss Matimak, andone of them was earlier than Matimak, but no, there is noother circuit that has followed this rule.If the --QUESTION: You wish to reserve the rest of yourtime?MS. REID: Yes, Mr. Chief Justice.QUESTION: Thank you, Ms. Reid.Mr. Minear, we'll hear from you. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ORAL ARGUMENT OF JEFFREY P. MINEARON BEHALF OF THE UNITED STATES, AS AMICUS CURIAE,SUPPORTING THE PETITIONERMR. MINEAR: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice, andmay it please the Court:The United States submits that corporationsorganized under the United Kingdom overseas territoriesare citizens or subjects of a foreign State for purposesof alienage diversity jurisdiction. We reach thatconclusion based on the plain language of . Section's operative term, subject, describes a personalentity that is amenable to foreign authority in the sensethat it owes allegiance to that foreign State and isentitled to the protection of that foreign State. Thatterm quite clearly embraces a corporation created by aforeign State. This Court recognized that principle inSteamship Company v. Tugman years ago.The crucial issue in this case is whether theUnited Kingdom exercises sufficient sovereign authorityover the British Virgin Islands such that citizens andcorporations can be said to be subject to the UnitedKingdom's rules, and we think the answer to that isclearly yes. The United States expressly recognizes theUnited Kingdom's sovereignty over the British VirginIslands. We do so through treaties such as the Consulate th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Convention that we have with the United Kingdom. We alsorecognize it through our diplomatic relations with theUnited Kingdom. Now, we fully support the UnitedKingdom's claim here of sovereignty over the BritishVirgin Islands.In addition, if the Court needs to look further,and we think it does not, it's clear from the BritishVirgin Islands' constitution that the United Kingdom hasretained its sovereignty over the British Virgin Islands. That constitution expressly states that the United Kingdomreserves full power to exercise and pass laws for the goodgovernment, order, and peace of the British VirginIslands.We think the language of section conclusively resolves this case, but if the Court needs tolook further still, then we think the policies thatunderlie section further buttress the conclusion thatwe reach.QUESTION: Mr. Minear, what if the -- say, theU.K. takes one position and makes a representation, butthe State Department, our State Department disagrees.MR. MINEAR: The --(Slide.)QUESTION: Then what sort of an action shouldour courts take? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. MINEAR: We think that you should defer onthe United States views on these matters. As far asdisagreements between the United Kingdom and the UnitedStates, that's a matter for the State Department to dealwith, but this Court's own decisions, cases such as Jonesv. The United States, which is at U.S. , explicitlystate that questions of sovereignty are politicalquestions that are entrusted to the political branches.QUESTION: Well then, if you were to submit theviews of the State Department in a case like that, nomatter what else there is in the record, we should acceptthe views of the State Department?MR. MINEAR: Your cases suggest that that is theresult that would follow.QUESTION: Yes, but do you have a position --MR. MINEAR: Yes, we do. To answer pointedly,yes, we do believe that you should defer to the UnitedStates views, because oftentimes on the question -- let medistinguish here that the question of subject is, ofcourse, the meaning of that term is a legal question thatthis Court would interpret according to its normalpractices, but the question of whether a foreign entity isa foreign State is a question that is properly entrustedto the political branches.We believe that the Second Circuit's decision th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC stands alone here because it is quite plainly wrong. TheThird Circuit has expressly rejected it, and the FourthCircuit and the Seventh Circuit have not followed it. Under these circumstances, we think it is appropriate forthe Court to reverse the decision below and remand thecase for further proceedings.QUESTION: Can you comment on the statelessperson problem, not a legal person?MR. MINEAR: But an individual. Yes, we canconceive that there can be such a thing as a statelessperson, and we cannot believe that section by itsplain language would reach a person who is not a citizenor a subject of a foreign State. Pure alienage is notsufficient. Nevertheless, the class of stateless personsis vanishingly small, and as was pointed out in theearlier discussion, the idea of a stateless corporation isan oxymoron, as Judge Altimari had stated.QUESTION: But there are some U.S. citizens whodon't have access to the Federal court because they're nota citizen of any State. Let's take a U.S. citizen who isresiding in Switzerland.MR. MINEAR: That is correct. That is correct,and again, we think the courts have consistently answeredthese questions by adherence to the plain language of thejurisdictional provisions. For instance, for many years, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC until Congress dealt with the issue, citizens of theDistrict of Columbia were not entitled to ordinarydiversity jurisdiction, but these are matters that wethink are best resolved by looking closely at the languagethat Congress has provided in the jurisdictionalprovisions.If there are no further questions, thank you.QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. Minear.Mr. Albert, we'll hear from you.ORAL ARGUMENT OF CRAIG J. ALBERTON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTMR. ALBERT: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court:There are two statutes at issue here, both ofwhich have plain language. Section of title saysthat diversity jurisdiction extends only to citizens orcitizens and subjects, and it does not extend to allaliens. The British Nationality Act of defines thosepersons whom the United Kingdom of Great Britain andNorthern Ireland views as its citizens or subjects, andnatural persons who are living within the BritishDependent Territories do not fall within the category ofbeing British Citizens.There is a special class, a subclass that isdelegated to those people. They are British Dependent th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Territory citizens, or British Overseas Territoriescitizens, and this is an important distinction, becausethey do not have the full measure of rights that anyEnglish citizen would have.QUESTION: You're now relying on English law, Itake it.MR. ALBERT: I'm referring to English law, yes.QUESTION: Yes. I think that creates somedifficulty for United States courts, particularly when theU.K. is making representations here as to one point, thenyou tell us we have to read English law, which we're muchless familiar with, of course, than American law.MR. ALBERT: Yes, Mr. Chief Justice. Under Rule. of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure, a court canlook to any source for finding where --QUESTION: I realize that. It's not that we'resomehow disqualified from it, but it makes it a much moredifficult inquiry.MR. ALBERT: It would be a much more difficultinquiry had the United Kingdom actually cited to anystatute or any case ever decided in any English courtanywhere on the subject, but it is --QUESTION: Well, Mr. Albert, even if the BritishNationality can be read as saying that corporations formedin the British Virgin Islands are not citizens, it doesn't th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC say they're not subjects of the United Kingdom, does it?MR. ALBERT: Well, actually, the BritishNationality Act carves out classes of citizens, andclasses of subjects, and persons who are neither citizensnor subjects, so in fact it --QUESTION: I just didn't find anything thatindicated to me that a corporation formed in the BritishVirgin Island was not a subject of the U.K., and we aredealing here with a brief filed by the U.K. that says theyare subjects, so what do we --MR. ALBERT: Well, I think that the questionhere is whether the deference should be unyielding to alitigation and advocacy position which the BritishGovernment puts forth in its briefs versus the substantivebasis for that position which one would find in a statute.QUESTION: Just looking at it from an American,U.S. perspective under the statute, citizens are subjects,and the fact that it is a corporation formed in theBritish Virgin Islands would lead me to conclude that is asubject of a foreign nation under our own statute.MR. ALBERT: Respectfully, Justice O'Connor, Ithink that the conclusion ought to be different, becausethere is nothing with -- the first step in the inquiry is,what would (a)() have to say about corporations, andwe know that (a)() is a reference to citizens or th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC subjects which is consistently -- which before the Letsonfiction was adopted had resulted in severe conflict overwhether there was jurisdiction for corporations at all.What this Court did in Letson was adopted thefiction not that the corporations were citizens orsubjects, but that the corporations would be deemed to becitizens or subjects by virtue of the imputed citizenshipof its shareholders and, applying the same principle here,you would impute the citizenship of the -- the citizenshipof natural persons resident within the British VirginIslands to a British Virgin Islands --QUESTION: That's going back to a law that haslong since become obsolete. A corporation within theUnited States is a citizen of the State in which it'sincorporated and where it has its principal place ofbusiness. We don't look to the citizenship of theshareholders any more. Why should there be such atremendous disparity between our modern view of what aU.S. corporation is and the rest of the world when wedon't even really think of the corporation as an entity initself but say it's stuck by what its shareholdercitizenship is.MR. ALBERT: Respectfully, Justice Ginsburg,(c) does not say that corporations are citizens oftheir States. It says that for purposes of diversity they th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC are deemed to be citizens of these States. It is acounting rule, not a citizenship rule, and hence, theLetson fiction still obtains. All that Congress did whenit adopted the (c) language was to restrict the scopeof diversity jurisdiction by providing a second politicaljurisdiction, principal place of business, which wouldfurther limit the number of diversity cases which wereappearing in Federal courts.This Court has never held that corporations werepolitical citizens or political subjects. Only (c)deems them to be so, and taking that a step further, it isCongress' choice, because Congress' language in (a)()is that only citizens or subjects -- it does not use theword aliens or anything broader -- are subject todiversity jurisdiction.QUESTION: Are you saying those words cover onlyhuman individuals and not corporations?MR. ALBERT: For (a)(), humans, thenapplying the (c) presumption, that would bringcorporations within the scope of diversity jurisdiction.QUESTION: Well, (a) does use the term,aliens at the very end.MR. ALBERT: Yes, there is a reference to it,but not in the provision of (a)() on the extension ofthat dispute between citizens of a State and citizens or th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC subjects of a foreign State, and in fact, Mr. ChiefJustice, Congress in fact had used the word, aliens, thebroader word, in the original enactment, in the JudiciaryAct of , but Congress abandoned that language when itrevised the statute in .QUESTION: Is a Spanish corporation -- as Isay -- is that -- does that come within jurisdiction,a corporation formed in Scotland?MR. ALBERT: In Scotland, yes, because a --because the Scottish people, the English and Welsh people,and the people of Northern Ireland all are citizens of theMetropolitan United Kingdom, the United Kingdom of GreatBritain and Northern Ireland.QUESTION: Well, my problem is if -- takesome -- the British Virgin Islands, a place that's stillheld in something like colonial status, that you say thatScotland, which has a great deal more independence,belongs to the U.K. in the sense that it is a subject ofthe U.K., but the British Virgin Islands, or the CaymanIslands, that have less independence, are not subjects? That may be something a lawyer could understand, but Idon't think it makes much sense, does it?MR. ALBERT: I think that the distinction is, noone is disputing here that the British Virgin Islands issubordinate to the United Kingdom, no one is disputing th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC that its people ultimately are answerable to the authorityof the United Kingdom, but that simply goes --QUESTION: Does it make them subject --subjects?MR. ALBERT: Subject to, not subject of, andthat is why the British Nationality Act is so importanthere.QUESTION: If it's so important, I guess thenmaybe corporations incorporated in Scotland are notcitizens and subjects either, because it doesn't sayanything about corporations, does it?MR. ALBERT: No, Justice Breyer.QUESTION: Wouldn't people then be surprised ifit doesn't say anything, if we said that Scottishcorporations weren't citizens, or -- in fact, wouldn't thepeople who live in these islands be a little surprised ifthe Supreme Court were to say, you're not nationals? Howdoes it work? This is not an act that refers tocorporations.MR. ALBERT: The proper allegation in a caselike this would be that a corporation is incorporatedunder the laws of Scotland and is therefore a citizen or asubject of the United Kingdom.QUESTION: And the reason that they are butthese people aren't is? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. ALBERT: Is because England, Wales,Scotland, and Northern Ireland, along with the ChannelIslands, are the constituent parts of the MetropolitanUnited Kingdom. That is the Government with whom wemaintain a direct relationship, and when we treaty withthem, we -- our treaties are binding as to that nation andthose persons who are within those political subdivisions.QUESTION: As of English law, the reason that --although their law says, I guess, the counselor law, thediplomatic manual,the thing that says you have to swearallegiance if you're in the British foreign -- you know,you're in the British Virgin Islands, all the laws aresubject to British authority and so forth, so the reason,in your opinion, despite all those things they list intheir brief, that makes it very, very similar, the reasonthat a corporation incorporated in Wales is a citizen ofthe United Kingdom or subject of the United Kingdom butthese are not, because it's the British Virgin Islands,is?MR. ALBERT: Because when parliament enacts alaw of general applicability within the United Kingdom,its applicability is to those four jurisdictions that I'vementioned, England, Wales, Scotland, and Northern Ireland,along with in some instances the Channel Islands, but itdoes not, of its force, extend to the British Overseas th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Territories, the British dependent -- what's now known asthe British Overseas Territories. They are regulatedseparately.When we enter into a treaty with the UnitedKingdom on any subject whatsoever, unless our treatyspecifically extends to those territories, what happens inthose territories is unaffected by our treaty, so it isnot a two-way street of reciprocal obligations within theUnited Kingdom. All of their powers of thesejurisdictions are derived from the United Kingdom, butthey don't have any reciprocal rights, and that isespecially true of the natural people who live withinthese territories.The natural people who live within theseterritories have no right of abode within the -- have noright of abode within the Metropolitan United Kingdom. Ifyou call them citizens or subjects, and in fact the UnitedKingdom uses both terms now, it no longer adheres to theold concept of subjects, they cannot travel to the UnitedKingdom --QUESTION: Are they stateless people?MR. ALBERT: They are not stateless people atall. They do have a State. Their State, theiroverarching State is the United Kingdom, which extends tothem defense protection. The United Kingdom protects them th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC in an international sense, but they do have -- and in thatsense they a State.QUESTION: They are British -- their State isthe U.K.?MR. ALBERT: They are just -- they are verysimilar to what our territorial residents would have beenbefore we extended citizenship.QUESTION: They are subject of and to the UnitedStates, I assume, the residents in the U.S. Territories.MR. ALBERT: Residents of U.S. Territories arenow citizens by virtue of an amendment to the Immigrationand --citizens?QUESTION: What were they before they wereMR. ALBERT: They were nationals and natives. They had no status. They were very much --QUESTION: They were not stateless, were they?MR. ALBERT: No, they were not.QUESTION: And so why isn't a corporationorganized in the British Virgin Islands or the CaymanIslands -- why is that stateless? There's only one Stateit can belong to, because these are not independentsovereigns. The BVI is not an independent sovereign. What State does that -- you tell me that the individualwould belong to the U.K. What does a corporation belong th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC to?MR. ALBERT: I do not advocate the position thatthe Matimak -- the Matimak Court adopted that thesecorporations were stateless. I do not think that that isessential to the determination below, and I think that itwas a poor choice of words. There is a State involved. The United Kingdom granted to the British Virgin Islandsthe authority to adopt a Companies Act, just as UnitedStates territories have authority under statute ofCongress to adopt their own incorporation laws. That doesnot mean that the corporations that are incorporatedwithin the British Virgin Islands are subjects of, ratherthan subject to --QUESTION: They belong to some State, and eitherthey belong to the U.K., or they belong to something thatisn't a sovereign, or they're stateless. It's got to beone of those three, so which is it?MR. ALBERT: They belong to the United Kingdom,but that does not answer the statutory question at issuehere, because even if they belong to a kingdom, even ifthey belong to the United Kingdom, that does not make thecitizens or subjects of the kingdom. You can be an alienand subject -- an alien to the United States, subject tothe kingdom, yet not be a citizen or subject of the UnitedKingdom, and that was Congress' choice to make. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Congress --QUESTION: Could I ask, the word subject in thestatute just tracks the word subject in the Constitution,and I -- wasn't the status of the colonists before ourRevolution precisely the same as the status of the BritishVirgin Islands?MR. ALBERT: Justice Scalia --QUESTION: Which would lead me to the inquirywhether the -- even the revolutionaries consideredthemselves subjects of the British Crown. If theyweren't, I guess they weren't engaging in a revolutionreally, were they?(Laughter.)MR. ALBERT: The laughter from the audience infact focuses the point here, because that was thefundamental shift in the understanding of the colonistsand their relationship to the British Government. Beforethe Revolution, the old idea of subjectship was that itwas permanent. One could never abandon one's subjectship. The political idea during the Revolution was a shifttoward the idea of volitional allegiance.That is, that once the Crown abdicated parts ofits protective authority, then the people no longer weresubjects of the Crown, and the legal basis for the legalphilosophers during the formation -- in the to th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC period was to justify how it was that we could throw offour bonds to the British Crown, and the way in which theyjustified it was to say that the King had abdicated, andtherefore, in the words of the Declaration ofIndependence, we were no longer his subjects. What werewe? Well, there was a --QUESTION: But we had been. We had been.MR. ALBERT: Oh, we had been. We had been.QUESTION: We occupied the same status in thosedays as the British --QUESTION: Why wasn't that status the one that'scomparable to the status of citizens in the Virgin Islandshere --MR. ALBERT: Justice --QUESTION: -- because they're not claiming thatthey've been abandoned by the Crown here.MR. ALBERT: Justice Stevens, there are twoplaces in which that abandonment can come about. One isby the people themselves declaring themselves independent,they saying that those bonds have been thrown off.QUESTION: Of course, that hasn't happened here.MR. ALBERT: It certainly has not happened here,but there is another way, because when nations adopt theidea of volitional allegiance, the new idea of what asubject is, then the nation itself can change its laws to th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC determine what the status of its people are. Here, theUnited Kingdom has changed the status of its persons. TheUnited Kingdom has moved away from that th and th,th century view of what a subject is and moved to ourview of what a subject is, and the British Nationality Actexplains exactly what these people are.QUESTION: The British Nationality Act hasnothing to do with corporations.MR. ALBERT: But the British Nationality Actdoes have to do with what the people in the British VirginIslands are --QUESTION: And the other thing they --MR. ALBERT: -- and then applies --QUESTION: I understand your point there, but --so I'm cutting you off, but they say that in these placesthe Queen appoints the Governor, the Governor isresponsible for internal security, public service, andcourt administration, but all the laws they pass in theseplaces are subject to review by the Foreign Office, theCommonwealth Office, and then the Queen in Council, whichis a group of particular individuals, that the LegislativeCouncil swears its allegiance to the Crown before it takesplace, and so they haven't just discarded this place atall. They've sort of treated it as we might treat a cityinside a State, or some other kind of semi-independent th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC entity, and you say to that, what?MR. ALBERT: Or more particularly, as we wouldtreat one of our territories, because the ability ofCongress to legislate for its --QUESTION: You mean, people in our Territorieslike Puerto Rico, let's say, which is a Commonwealth --MR. ALBERT: Yes.QUESTION: -- or Samoa, they are not subjects ofthe United States?MR. ALBERT: They are not subjects of the UnitedStates.QUESTION: They don't owe their allegiance tothe United States, and they're not subject to its laws. Which is it?MR. ALBERT: The position that has beenadvocated here, and I think that the -- and that has beenuniformly advanced by the scholars is that citizenshipversus subjectship is simply -- are simply two sides ofthe same coin determin -- describing what the relationshipis of one in either a democracy or a monarchy, and whathas happened in the United Kingdom is that as the countryhas evolved from a strict monarchy to a constitutionalmonarchy with democratic principles, that the ideas ofsubjectship have evolved, and the idea of citizenship hasbeen incorporated into their law. This -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: Do you feel some discomfort insaying, well, that's what the U.K. law is, and you told usthat what the Companies Act means, when U.K. itself istelling this Court, you've got it all wrong? You'restanding before the Court as an interpreter of U.K. law. You're riding the whole -- your whole case on what U.K.law is, and yet the U.K. tells us, you read it wrong.MR. ALBERT: I would have thought that had theUnited Kingdom had a statute on which it could rely, orany decision on which it could rely, it would cite them. The only authority to which it cites in the record at allis in the lodging --QUESTION: Which -- go ahead.MR. ALBERT: Is in the lodging at page L, anexcerpt from its diplomatic manual which describes thevarious categories under the British Nationality Act.The other authority upon which it relies are itsdiplomatic notes in which it asserts that it views thesepeople as its subjects, but if you look to each citationof that -- those diplomatic notes, they come not in asubmission to a court, asking a court to determine whatBritish law is, but in a protest to the State Departmentafter a case has been decided saying, we don't like thedecision of this court.Now, I've cited to the -- I've certainly cited th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC to the text of the British Nationality Act which tells youwhere the diplomatic -- where the diplomatic manualderives its basis.QUESTION: Is it a fair summary to say that it'sa litigating position and therefore we do not owe itChevron deference?MR. ALBERT: I think it is a pure advocacyposition, and it does not deserve --QUESTION: Are you arguing for what we mightcall a variable definition of subject, that VI residentsare subjects of Great Britain in some cases and notothers?That is to say, you said earlier that the U.K.could make a treaty binding on VI residents, VI citizens,so that you can be subject of Great Britain in someinstances and not others.MR. ALBERT: Justice Kennedy, the U.K. itself --QUESTION: If I characterize your argument thatway, would that be a proper characterization of yourargument?MR. ALBERT: I think that at the second level ofMatimak inquiry, when -- that the Court would necessarilyhave to inquire as to whether or not a person is or is nota subject, and I think that I would be -- I am willing toconcede that Britain could change its statute for general th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC purposes or for limited purposes so as to give to theseterritorial citizens the right to proceed in Americancourts, and we would defer to that simply by reason of --simply for reasons for international comity.QUESTION: But doesn't that potential indicatethat there is sovereignty, because --MR. ALBERT: Once --QUESTION: -- isn't sovereignty the capacity toexercise power and authority?MR. ALBERT: Sovereignty is that power. Thequestion is whether or not they are subjects.I'll give you an example.QUESTION: They are subjects because of thepotential of the exercise of that power.MR. ALBERT: The land that sits in the middle ofLondon at Leicester Square, the famous Tolk v. Moxie Land,is subject to the sovereignty of the United Kingdom, butthat does not make the land a subject, and so the merefact that the United Kingdom adopts legislation whichregulates behavior of its people, both within themetropolitan United Kingdom and within its territories,does not mean that the people within its territories aresubjects for purposes of , and I say that especiallyin light of the fact that as we stand here today theUnited Kingdom has adopted a new statute which has not yet th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC come into force, because a statutory instrument has notyet been signed for it, which will render the BritishTerritories' citizens to be British citizens, giving thoseBritish citizens now the right of abode within the UnitedKingdom, and that will happen in the future. It probablywill happen soon, maybe in a matter of months, maybe in amatter of years, but it has not happened yet, and wedetermine subject matter jurisdiction as of the time ofthe commencement of --QUESTION: How does that affect a corporation? You're talking about what will be the status ofindividuals.MR. ALBERT: I think that a -- that applying --that the proper way to apply the Letson principle here isthat a British Virgin Islands Corporation should never besubject to diversity jurisdiction precisely because thepresumption is that its shareholders have opted forBritish Virgin Islands status rather than opted forBritish status.QUESTION: And that would be the case -- itwould be -- the Congress would be immobile as well. Inorder to make -- if I follow your argument correctly, inorder to make a BVI corporation subject to jurisdiction, there would have to be a constitutionalamendment, because the Constitution uses the same words th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC for a citizen or subject -- citizen or subject.MR. ALBERT: The Second Circuit did not reachthe constitutional --QUESTION: That's what I'm putting to you,because the statute uses the same term, citizens orsubjects.MR. ALBERT: I do not think that there is apresumption in this Court that the use of the samelanguage in Article and in title means that thestatute has --QUESTION: Well, tell me what subject meanswithin Article that it doesn't mean within and whya court should interpret it -- interpret them differently.MR. ALBERT: Because if you look to theJudiciary Act of , which was adopted nearlycontemporaneously, Congress used the broader language,alien, rather than the narrower language, citizen orsubject, and --QUESTION: That's not -- the Constitution sayscitizen or subject, doesn't it?MR. ALBERT: That's correct, it does, and --QUESTION: What does it mean -- what doessubject mean within the Constitution, within Article , asit reads?MR. ALBERT: It would be mere speculation on my th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC part to suggest what it was that they meant, since thiswas one of the least debated provisions of theConstitution.QUESTION: But you're urging a certain statutoryinterpretation, and you said, well, maybe it has adifferent meaning, the word subject, in the Constitution,so I'm asking you to tell me what could be those differentmeanings.MR. ALBERT: I think that it is entirelypossible that in Congress -- the Convention intendedto extend the grant of authority to the full measure ofdiversity jurisdiction over cases involving allforeigners, but the reason that I don't think that theyfocused on the issue was because in there really werenot these cases of -- there were not a lot of cases,probably no cases in which there were people who lackedsubjectship yet nevertheless were foreigners.With respect to these trading colonies inparticular, the people who were involved in the mercantiletrade involving these Caribbean colonies were not peoplewho were resident within those colonies --QUESTION: What about Canadians? Until Canadadomesticated its constitution, I suppose for most of theth Century Canadians were not subjects of the Crown?MR. ALBERT: I think Canadians were subjects of th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC the Crown by virtue of the fact that they were in asettler colony rather than in a plantation, a plantationcolony, and the -- one of the difficulties of the Britishlaw of that entire era is that it never really had auni -- it never had a uniform picture of who its personswere, and what the relationship was between the Crown andeach one of the different types of colonies that werecreated, and it was very, very difficult for the -- it wasvery difficult for Britain, because Britain had differenttypes of colonies which promoted different types ofBritish interests, and therefore it created differenttypes of Governments within them, and created differentstatuses with respect to immigration and migration toEurope for those people.QUESTION: So among the subjects, or -- well,the entities that are under U.K. sovereignty, which arethose are subjects and which of them are not?MR. ALBERT: The ones which are certainly notsubjects right now are those which are the BritishOverseas Territories, which include the British VirginIslands, the Cayman Islands, Bermuda, the Turks andCaicos --QUESTION: Which ones are? Which ones are?MR. ALBERT: Pardon?QUESTION: Which ones are? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. ALBERT: The Isle of Man, the ChannelIslands are British -- are British citizens, and --QUESTION: I didn't ask citizen, I said,subjects.MR. ALBERT: Oh, British subjects, sorry. British subjects, and --QUESTION: How about the Falklands?MR. ALBERT: The Falklands -- the Falklands,those residents are not British citizens. They areBritish Overseas -- Overseas Territories citizens.QUESTION: How about Leicester Square?(Laughter.)MR. ALBERT: It has no status whatsoever,because it is property, not a person.Thank you.QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. Albert.Ms. Reid, you have minutes remaining.REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF SARAH L. REIDON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERMS. REID: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it pleasethis Court:I will try to be brief. I would like toseparate the inquiry between corporations and then addressnatural persons. Corporations are incorporated throughthe laws of their legislative district. The United th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Kingdom's brief details quite clearly how the corporationsare incorporated, rather like our States, corporations inNorthern Ireland are incorporated under the laws ofNorthern Ireland. As I understand respondent's argument,that would make them stateless entities, because they arenot actually incorporated in Scotland, Wales, or theUnited Kingdom. Clearly, that is an absurd result, giventhe presence of the British --QUESTION: I think his answer was that ifthey're formed under Scotland, Wales, Northern Ireland,they're okay, but if they're formed under BVI, they'renot.MS. REID: Right. I think he may haveinadvertently been in error, because the Northern Irelandcorporations are actually incorporated under a differentlaw than those of the ones in England, but the point isthe same. All of these entities incorporate under theirown individual quasi State or district law, all subject tothe Crown, and they all should be analyzed in theidentical way. They are all subject to and subjects ofthe United Kingdom.In terms of the natural citizens, I just wantedto point -- the British Nationality Act, of course, has noapplications to corporations, and the analysis thatsomehow we should adopt the old Letson rule is th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC inapplicable both because it's United Kingdom law, we haveno learning -- I mean, United States law, no learning onwhat -- how the United Kingdom would do it, but it seemssensible to adopt the more modern view, but the Nationality Act, interestingly, in schedule to section, in terms of naturalization and becoming a citizen or aBritish Overseas Citizen, or a British, what was thenknown as Dependent Territory citizen, you're required totake the following oath of allegiance: I, name, swear byAlmighty God that on becoming a British DependentTerritory citizen I will be faithful and bear trueallegiance to Her Majesty Queen Elizabeth II, her heirsand successors, according to law.I submit to you that that is the definition of asubject, and of allegiance, and that really is --demonstrates that the United Kingdom has come before thisCourt not as a litigation posture, because it has nointerest really in any of these cases, but as a concernover the fact that its sovereignty is not being recognizedby the judiciary when it has been recognized by the UnitedStates Government in numerous treaties, and again, I won'tread them, but I would simply refer you to the ConsularConvention and footnote of the United Kingdom's brief,which details the numerous treaties that have been enteredinto governing the British Virgin Islands and other of the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Overseas Territories.If the Court has no further questions, I willsubmit.CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: Thank you, Ms. Reid. The case is submitted.(Whereupon, at ; a.m., the case in theabove-entitled matter was submitted.) th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC A abandon : abandoned : : abandonment : abdicated : : abide : ability : abode :, : about : : :, : : : : : :, above-entitled : : Absolutely : absurd : accept : access : : according : : acknowledge : acquired : across : act : : : : :, : :,, :, : : : : action : actions : actual : actually : : :, addition : additional : address : adherence : adheres : administration : adopt :, : : : adopted :, : : : : adopts : advanced : advocacy : : advocate : advocated : affect : afraid : after : again : : against : ago : agree :, agreed : ahead : Alabamans : Albert : : :,, :, :, :,, : :, :, :,, :, : :,,, :, :, : :,, :, :,,, :, :,, :,, : :,,,, :, :, :,,,, alien :, : alienage : : : aliens : :, : allegation : allegiance : : : : : : : : : :,, alliances : ally : Almighty : alone : along :, although : Altimari : amenable : amendment : : American : : : : amicus : : : :, : among : analogy : analysis : analyzed : annoyed : another : : answer : : : : answerable : answered : anything : : : :, Anyway : anywhere : appeals : APPEARANCES : appearing : applicability :, applicable : applications : applies : : apply : applying : : : appoints : appropriate : approve : April : argue : argued : arguing : argument : :,,, :, : : :, : : : article : :,, asking : : asserting : asserts : Assistant : assume : : : audience : Australia :, authority : :, :, : : C C : : th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC : :, : :, : : away : a.m : : : B back :, : : Bank : :, : based : basis : : : bear : become : : becoming :, before : : : : :, :, : : : behalf :,, :,,, : : : : behavior : being : : believe : :, : belong :,, :,,,, : belongs : below : : Bermuda : best : : : between : :,,, : : : : : binding : : Blackstone : bonds :, both :, : : : : branches :, Breyer : brief : : : : : : briefly : briefs : : bring : Britain : : : :,, : :, British : :, : : : :, :,,, :,,, :,, :,,, :, :,, : :,,,, :, :, :, :,, :, :,,, :, : :,,,,, :,,, :,,,,, :, :,,, broader : : : business : : buttress : BVI : : : : : : Caicos : call : : came : Canada : Canadians :,, capacity : carefully : Caribbean : : carves : case :, :, : : : : : : : : : : : :, cases : :, : :, : : :,,, : categories : category : Cayman : : : century : : certain :, : certainly : : : : change : : : changed : Channel :, : characterization : characterize : Chase : :, : : Chevron : Chief :, : : : : : : : China : choice : :, circuit :,,,, :,, : Circuit's : circumstances : citation : cite : cited :,, : : :, cites : citizen :, : : :,, : : : : : :, :, : :,,, :,,,, :,, :, :, :,, :,,,, : :, : :, : : : : :,, : :,, : citizenship :, :,,,, : : :, city : civil : : claim : : claiming : class : : classes :, clause : citizens :,, :, : :, :,, clear : clearly : : : :, : : closely : coin : collateral : collect : collected : colonial : colonies :,, :, colonists :, colony :, Columbia : come : : : : : comity : commencement : comment : commerce : :, commercial : Commonwealth : : Companies : : Company : comparable : completely : concede : conceivable : conceive : concept : concern : concerning :, conclude : conclusion : : : conclusively : conflict : Congress :, :,, :, :, : : : : : consider : considered : : consistently : : : constituent : constitution : :, : : constitutional : : : : : Consular : Consulate : contemporaneously : continuing : controversial : controversy : Convention : : : conventions : corporation : : :,,, :, :,, : : : : :, :,, :, : : :, :,, corporations : : : :, : : :,,, :,, :,,, :, : :, :,,, correct :, : correctly : council : :, counselor : counting : countries : country :,,, : : course : : : : : : court :, : : : :, : :, :, : :, : :, : : : : : :,,,, : :, : : : courts : :, :,, : : : : : Court's : cover : CRAIG : : : created : :,, creates : creditor : Crown :,,,, :,, : : : : :, : crucial : curiae : : : cutting : D D : days : : deal : : : dealing : : dealt : debated : debates : : debt : debts : decided : : : decision : : :, decisions : : Declaration : declares : declaring : deemed : : deems : defense : : defer :, : deference : : defines : definition : : degree : delay : th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC delegated : : deleterious : democracy : democratic : demonstrate : demonstrates : Department : :, :, : : dependent :, : :, derived : : derives : describes : : describing : deserve : despite : detail :, details : : determin : determination : determine : : : determining : different : : : :, :,,,, : differently : difficult :, :, difficulties : difficulty : diplomatic : : : : : :,, :, direct : : disagreed : disagreements : disagrees : disapprove : discarded : disclosure : discomfort : discuss : discussed : discussion : : disparity : dispute : disputing :, disqualified : distinction : : distinguish : district : : : : diversity : : :, : :,,, : : document : domesticated : during :, duty : dynamic : D.C :, E E : :, each : : : earlier : : : eccentric : effect : effects : either : : : : elected : Elizabeth : embraces : enabling : enacted :, : enacting : enactment : enacts : end : Enforcement : engaging : England :, : English :,,,, : : entanglement : : entanglements :,, : enter :, : entered : entire : entirely : entities : : : :, entitled : : entity : : : : entrusted :, envision : era : error : especially : : ESQ :,, :,,, essential : established : Europe : even : : : :, : ever : every :, Everybody : everyone : evolved :, exactly : : example : : exceeds : excerpt : exercise : : :, exercises : exiled : explains : explicitly : : expressed :, expressly : : : : extend : : : extended : extending : extends : :, extension : extent : external : F face : fact : :, : :, :, : : : :, : : fair : faithful : Falklands :,, fall : familiar : famous : far : fear : Federal : :, : :, : : : : : feel : fiction :, : filed : financial : : find : :, finding : first : : : fit : focused : focuses : follow :,, : : followed :, : following : footnote : force : : foreign :, :, : :, : : : :,,,, :, : : : : : foreigners : :, formation : formed :, : : :, : :, forth : : forum : four : Fourth : : Framers : : France : Francisco : frequently : from :,, : : : : : : : : : : : : full : : : fully : th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC fundamental : further :,, : : :, : future : G G : general : : : generate : George : getting : Ginsburg : give :, given : giving : go : : God : goes : : going : : good : governing : government : : : : : : Governments : Governor :, grant : : granted : : great : : : :, : : greater : group : guess : : : : H happen :, happened :, : : happens : having : hear : : : heirs : held : : hence : her :, higher : homosexuality : Honor : :, : :, : human : humans : I idea : :,, :, : ideas : identical : II : immigration : : immobile : impetus : impetuses : important : :, impute : imputed : inadvertently : inapplicable : include : included : including : incorporate : incorporated : : : : : : : : : : :,, incorporation : independence :, : independent :, : indicate : indicated : individual : :, : : individuals : : : Infrastructure : : inquire : inquiry :, : : : : : inside : insistent : instance :, : instances :, : : instrument : intended : interest : interestingly : interests : interlocutory : internal : international : : : : : interpret : :, interpretation : : interpreter : intervened : involve : involved : : involving :, Ireland : :, :, : :,, island :, : islands : :, :, :,, : : : :, : :,, : :,,, :, :, : : : :, :, : : Isle : issue : : : :, : : J J : : : JEFFREY : : : Jones : JPMorgan : :, : : Judge : judiciary : : : jurisdiction : : : :, : :,,, : :,, : jurisdictional : : jurisdictions : : just : :,, : : : : :, : : : : : Justice : :, : : : : : : : : : : :, : : : justified : justify : K keep : Kennedy : kind : : kinds : King : kingdom : :, :, : : :,,, : :, :,, : : : : : : :, :, :,,, : :,,,,,, :,, :,,, :, : : :,,, : :, :, : Kingdom's :, : : : know :, : : : : : : : known : : L L : :, : : lacked : land :,, language : : :, : : :, : :,, large : laughter : :, : law :, :,,,, : :, :,,, : :,,, : :,,, : :, :,, laws : :,,,,,,,, : : : : : : : : : : : lawyer : th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC lead : : : learning :, least : : legal : : :, legislate : legislation : legislative : : : : Leicester : : less : : let : : Letson :, : : : let's : : : level : light : like : :, : : : : : : : limit : limited : : : list : litigating : litigation : : little : : live : :, living : : lodging :, London : long : longer : : : look :, : :, : : : : looking :, : : looks : : lot : L : M mad : :, made : maintain : Majesty : make :,, : :, : : :, : makes : : : : making : Man : mandated : manual : : manual,the : many : : market : Matimak : : :, :, : matter : : :, : : :, :,, : matters : : : : may : : : : : : maybe : :, : mean : : :, : : : : :,, : meaning : : : : meanings : means : :, meant : measure : : member : mentioned : mercantile : mere : : metropolitan : : : : Mexico : middle : might : : : : : migration : Minear : : : :, : : :,, :, : minutes : modern : : monarchy :,, Monterey : months : more : : : :, : : : : most : moved :, Moxie : much :,, : : must : :, :, : : N N :, : name : Narcotics : narrower : nation : : : national : nationality : : : : : :,, : : : : nationals : : nations : natives : natural : : : : : : : : naturalization : nature : nearly : necessarily : : needs :, neither : neutral : never : : : :, nevertheless : : new :,,, :, :, : : : newspaper : : : : overarching : overruling : th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC next : normal : Northern : :, :, :,,, noteholders : notes : :, nothing : : : number : : numerous :, O O : : oath : obey :,,, obligation :,, :, obligations : : obsolete : obtains : obviously : occasion : occupied : occurred : off :, : Office :, often : oftentimes : Oh : : okay : : old : : : once : : one : : : : :, : :, :, : : : :, : : : : : :, : :, ones : :,,, : one's : only : : : :,, : : operative : opinion : opted :, oral : :,, : : : order : : :, ordinary : organized : : : : : original : : : other :, : : : : : :,, :, : : others :, ought : ourselves : out : : over :, : :, :, overseas : : :, : : : : : :, : : owe : : owes : : own : : : : oxymoron : O'Connor : : P P : : : : page : : paper : papers : Pardon : parliament : : : parliamentary : part : :, : particular : : : particularly : : : parts : : pass : : peace : people : :,, :,, : :,,, : : :,, : : :, : :, : percent :, perception :, perfect : perhaps : period : permanent : person : :,, :,,, : : personal : persons : : : : : : : : : : : : perspective : Petitioner :,, :, :, : : Petitioners : philosophers : phrase : picture : place : : : :, places : :, plain : :, : plainly : plantation :, please : : : : point : : : : : :, pointed : pointedly : policies : political :,, :,, : : poor : port : position : : : :, : : :, possible :, : post : posture : potential :, potentially : power : : :,, powers : practice : practices : precisely : : predictability : presence : presented : presumably : presumption : : : pretty : prevention : principal : : principle : : : principles : private : probably : : problem : : Procedure : procedures : proceed : proceedings : promoted : promotion : : proper : : : properly : property : proposition : : protection : : : : protective : protects : protest : provided : provides : providing : : provision : provisions : : : public : Puerto : pure : : purposes : : : :,, puts : putting : Q qualifies : qualify : quasi : Queen : : :, : question : :,,,, : : :,, :,, :, :, : :,,,, :,,, :, :,, :,, :, :,,,,,, :, : :,,, :, : : :, :, :, :, : : :,,,, :, :, :,,,, :,, :,, :, :, : :,,, :, :, :, :, :,, :, :, : questions :, : : : quite : : : : R R : rare : rather : : : : : : : rationale : reach : : : : read :, : : reads : real :, reality : realize : really : : : : : : reason : : : :,, : : reasons : REBUTTAL : : recent : reciprocal :, recognize : : : recognized : :, recognizes : : record : : refer : reference : : referenced : referring : refers : refusal : regulated : regulates : REHNQUIST : : Reid : :, :,, :,,, : :,,, :,, :, :, :,,, :,,,, :,, :,,, :, : : : rejected : th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC relations : : relationship : : :,, : :, saying : : : : : sovereignty :,, : : says : : : :, : Scalia : schedule : scholars : scope :, Scotland :,, :, :, Scottish : : second : : : : : section : :, : : :, : security : seem : seems : semi-independent : sense : :, :, sensible : separate : separately : service : set : settler : Seventh : : several : severe : shareholder : shareholders :, : shift :, sides : signed : similar : : Similarly : simple : simply :, : :, :, : since : : sites :, sits : Slide : small : Solicitor : some :,, :,, : : : : : : : : :, somehow : : : someone : something :, : somewhere : : soon : : sorry : sort : : : : source : sovereign :, :,, :,, :, : : : sovereigns : : : :, : :,,, : : Spanish : special :,, : specifically : : speculation : speed : split : Square : : stance : stand : standing : stands : state :, :, : : :, : :, :,,, : : :,,,, :, : : : :,, :, :, :, : : : stated : : stateless :,, : :,, : :, :, :, : statelessness : states :,, : : : :, :, :,, : :,,, : :, : : :, :,, : :, status : : :, :,, :, :,, : statuses : statute :, :, :, : :,, : : : : : : :, statutes : : statutory : : : Steamship : step : : Stevens : still : : : : strange : Stream : :, street : strict : strong : stuck : subclass : subdivisions : subject :, :,, :, :, : :,, :,,, :, : : : :, : : :,,, :, : : :,,, :, : :,, : :,, : : :,, :,,,,, : :, : subjects :, : :, :, : : : relationships :, relies : rely :, relying : remaining : remand : reminiscent : render : renounced : representation : : : representations : representatives : required : reserve : reserves :, : resident : : residents : :,, :, : residing : resolution : resolved : resolves : respect : : Respectfully : : respondent : : : :, : : respondent's : responsible : rest : : restrict : result : : : : resulted : retained : reverse : review : : revised : revolution : : :,,, revolutionaries : Rico : riding : right :,, :, : :, : : : : rights : : rule : : :, : rules : : S S : : same : : : : : : : : Samoa : San : SARAH : :, : : savvy : th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC :,, :,, :, : : :, :, :, :, : :, : : :,, : :, :, : :,, : subjectship :, :, : submission : submit : :, : : : submits : : submitted : :, subordinate : substantive : successors : sue : sufficient : : suggest : : suggested : summary : support : supporting : : : suppose :, : : Supreme :, : sure : surprised :, swear : : : swears : swept : Switzerland : system :,, T T :, take :, : : : : : takes : : taking : talking : : tell : : : : telling : tells : : temporarily :, term : : : :, : : : terms : : : : : : territorial : : territories : : :, : : : :,,,,, :, : :, :, : : : : Territory : :, text : thank : : :, :, they'd : thing : : : things : : think : : : : :, : :,, : :, : : :, : :, :, : :,, : : :, : :, thinking : Third : : though : : : thought : three : through : : : : throw : thrown : time : : title : : today : : : : told : Tolk : toward : tracks : trade : trading : Traffic : :, travel : treat : : treated : treaties : : :, treaty :, : :,, : tremendous : true : : : : : try : : Tugman : Turks : turn : two : : : : : : two-way : types : :,,, U ultimately :,, : unaffected : under :, :,,, :, :,, : : : : :, : : : : :,,,, underlie : understand : : : : understanding : uni : uniform : : uniformly : United :,, : : :, : :, :, :,, :,,, : : :,,,,,, : :,,, :,,,, : : : : : :,, : : :,,, :,,,, :,, : :,,,,, :, :,,, : :, :, : : :, :, :,,, unless : until : : unyielding : urging : use :, : used : : uses : : : U.K : : :, :, : : : :,,,, :, : U.S : : :, : : :, V v : : : : : valid : vanishingly : variable : various : versa : versus : : very : :, : : :, :, :,, VI :,, vice : view : :, : views :,,, : : Virgin : :, :, :,, : : :, :, : :, :, : :, : : : :, : : virtual : virtue :, : : : volitional : : W Wales :,, :, want : :, wanted : : : war : warned : Washington :, : wasn't : : way : :, : : : ways : web : Wednesday : well : : : :, : : : : : : : : their :, : : : : : : : :, :,, : : : :, : : themselves : :, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC : : :, : : : th : : th : : : : : : : : : : :,, : : . : : : : : well-settled : Welsh : were : : : : : : : : :, : :,, :,,, : :, :, :,,,,,,,, : :, weren't : :, we'll : : : we're :, whatsoever : : while : white :, whole :, willing : wish : word : :, :, : words : : : : work : works : world :, : worried : wouldn't : : :, written : wrong : :, X :, X Y years : : : York :,,, :, :, : $, : - : : $ : : : : ; : : : : : : :, : : : : : : 's : (a) : (a)() :, :,, (c) : :,, : : th : : : th : th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC 