 IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - XFEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION,:Petitioner :v. : No. -NEXTWAVE PERSONAL COMMUNICATIONS :INC., ET AL.; and ARCTIC SLOPE REGIONAL CORPORATION, ET AL., ::::v. : No. -NEXTWAVE PERSONAL COMMUNICATIONS :INC., ET AL. :- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - XWashington, D.C.Tuesday, October , The above-entitled matter came on for oralargument before the Supreme Court of the United States at: a.m.APPEARANCES:PAUL D. CLEMENT, ESQ., Acting Solicitor General,Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on behalf ofPetitioner Federal Communications Commission. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC JONATHAN S. FRANKLIN, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalfof the Petitioners Arctic Slope Regional Corp., etal.DONALD B. VERRILLI, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf ofthe Respondents.LAURENCE H. TRIBE, ESQ., Cambridge, Massachusetts; onbehalf of Creditors NextWave Communications, Inc., asamicus curiae. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC C O N T E N T SPAGEORAL ARGUMENT OF PAUL D. CLEMENT, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioner Federal CommunicationsCommission ORAL ARGUMENT OFJONATHAN S. FRANKLIN, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioners Arctic Slope RegionalCorporation, et al. ORAL ARGUMENT OFDONALD B. VERRILLI, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalfof the Respondents ORAL ARGUMENT OF LAURENCE H. TRIBE, ESQ., Cambridge,Massachusetts; on behalf of Creditors NextWaveCommunications, Inc., as amicus curiae REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OFPAUL D. CLEMENT, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioner Federal CommunicationsCommission th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC P R O C E E D I N G S(: a.m.)CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: We'll hear argumentnow in Number -, Federal Communications Commission v.NextWave Personal Communications and a companion case. Mr. Clement.ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAUL D. CLEMENTON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERFEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSIONGENERAL CLEMENT: Mr. Chief Justice and may itplease the Court:Congress has directed the FCC to use auctions toallocate scarce wireless spectrum in a manner thatfurthers the public interest. Those auctions allocatespectrum to the party who will -- who values the spectrummost highly and, by assumption, will use it mosteffectively to serve the public. In addition, Congresshas directed the FCC to consider a number of specificfactors in assessing the public interest, includingpromoting opportunities for small business and ensuringthe rapid deployment of wireless services. Nothing inthat public interest regulatory regime runs afoul ofsection of the Bankruptcy Code.To be sure, in administering its auctions theFCC does place consequences on the regulatory signals th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC provided by the failure to meet regulatory paymentdeadlines. In particular, the FCC views the failure tomake a timely regulatory payment as a proxy for adetermination that continued possession of the license isnot in the public interest.QUESTION: But your point is, is that theregulatory discretion and authority of the agency has beenreplaced under the statutory scheme in large part by thedynamics of the free market. The highest bidder shows uswhich is the most qualified person.GENERAL CLEMENT: That's right. It's beenreplaced in large part but not exclusively, and I thinkboth aspects that are important --QUESTION: Well, as to the first part, isn't theBankruptcy Code and the policy of new start and creditorsand so forth, isn't that really part of the free marketstructure?GENERAL CLEMENT: Well, I think there's adifference, though, when a regulator regulates solely fortimely payment for its own sake, and in that case itimplicates only the policies that are addressed by theBankruptcy Code, and I think it's a different situationwhen the regulator looks at the failure to make timelypayment as a proxy for something else.QUESTION: Well, but Mr. Clement, in your th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC petition for certiorari, the question presented speaks ofan obtained option automatically canceled. That suggeststhat it is indeed automatic.GENERAL CLEMENT: Well, it's automatic in thesense --QUESTION: I mean, automatic means without anydiscretion.GENERAL CLEMENT: With respect, Justice, ChiefJustice Rehnquist, when it says automatic, what it meansis that it cancels without any, the need for any furtheraction from the commission, but in any given case, thecancellation of a license is a result both of theautomatic cancellation rule and the fact that a paymentdeadline has come forward, and where the commission hasdiscretion is in relaxing the payment deadline, and youcan see that in this very case. NextWave's license iscanceled, according to the FCC, because NextWave failed tomake the very first installment payment due under thoselicenses.Now, according to the licenses in the first instance,that payment was due on April , , but the licensesdidn't cancel on April , because the commission inits discretion, as part of a multifactor public interestdetermination, extended the payment deadline a full months. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: Well, Mr. Clement, it appears to methat the FCC went along with the bankruptcy filing, fileda claim for the amount that wasn't paid, and apparentlywent along with the proposals for a while to work this outand then, very shortly before the decision to reauctionthe things, the FCC decided not to go along with it. Thatdoesn't sound like some automatic cancellation. I mean,the FCC appeared to treat it very much like the bankruptcyclaim for quite some time, didn't it?GENERAL CLEMENT: Well, to be sure, the FCCparticipated in the bankruptcy proceedings and protectedits interests as a creditor, but at the same time it hasindependent interests as a regulator, and the FCC, as wepoint out on page of the reply brief, made clear atvarious points well before NextWave went into bankruptcythat it did not view bankruptcy as an exception from theregulatory provisions of the Communications Act, and Ithink if you look at the specific event that NextWavepoints to as the automatic cancellation, it's the failureto make a payment that was due on October , , and itwas due on the th of October, , rather than April, , precisely because of a public interestdetermination by the commission.QUESTION: You say a public interestdetermination, but the only correlation that seems clear th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC to me is a purely economic correlation. When the value ofthe leases dropped, the FCC apparently went into theBankruptcy Court and said, we want our full $ billion,and when the value of the leases went up, the FCC took theposition, we want to reauction them and get the increasein value. It seems at each point at which the FCC made adecision, it was making an economic decision, not aregulatory decision.GENERAL CLEMENT: With respect, Justice Souter,I don't think that's correct. When -- I mean, it is truethat the FCC tried to go in and protect its interests as acreditor, but at the point that NextWave was trying tokeep its regulatory licenses that it promised to pay $.billion for, and trying to keep those licenses for justover a billion, the result of that process would have beenthat the rest of that amount, the $ billion plus, wouldhave been an unsecured claim of the FCC, that would havebeen really worth virtually nothing, so I think the betterway to understand this case is that the FCC does haveinterests as a creditor, and it has tried to protect thoseinterests in the bankruptcy proceedings and hasparticipated in those proceedings, but at the same time,it has interests with the -- as a regulator, and in itscapacity as a regulator it hasn't acted in a way thatwould result in a sole-cause cancellation. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: Mr. Clement, suppose -- and Iconsider this a classic case for what this provision ofthe Bankruptcy Code was directed to. Suppose you have aState law that says anyone who is in default of traffictickets that amount to more than $ shall have hislicense revoked, okay, and the person in question goesinto bankruptcy, doesn't pay the $, gets the $discharged in bankruptcy, the State you think can revokehis license?GENERAL CLEMENT: No, I don't, but let me giveyou --QUESTION: Why not? Isn't there a regulatorypurpose there?GENERAL CLEMENT: No. The only regulatorypurpose there, at least as I understand your hypothetical,is in providing for timely payment, but suppose a State --QUESTION: No, the regulatory purpose is havingfinancially responsible drivers so people don't run aroundthe road hurting people and leaving them to bleed on theirown account.GENERAL CLEMENT: Well --QUESTION: There's just as much a regulatorypurpose in that hypo as there is here.QUESTION: You can always find a regulatorypurpose. I mean, it's the easiest thing in the world to th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC do.GENERAL CLEMENT: But again, but if a State hada regulatory purpose in ensuring that its drivers werefinancially responsible, and presumptively said that alicense would fail to cancel for the failure to pay $in traffic tickets, but provided a mechanism for thedriver to go in before the regulatory commission and say,look, I know I haven't paid $ worth of traffic tickets,but I'm actually financially responsible. I have a ton ofmoney in the bank, and so you ought to give me arelaxation of the rules or a waiver --QUESTION: There's always such a mechanismwhenever you have a debtor and a creditor. The creditorcan always extend the payment.GENERAL CLEMENT: Right, but --QUESTION: You need some special power from theState to do that?GENERAL CLEMENT: Well, but again, if you look,and what the regulator is doing is extending the --extending the payment not as a creditor, but as aregulator, I think you're in a very different situation.QUESTION: So you're just making up a regulatorypurpose, as a regulator. I mean, as a regulator, as acreditor you can always say it's being done as aregulator, always. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC GENERAL CLEMENT: I really don't think that'strue, with respect. I think the kind of waiver proceedingor opportunity to relax the rules would be out of place ina regulatory regime that was only concerned with timelypayment. It's precisely because the FCC uses the timelypayment, or the failure to make timely payment, as a proxyfor a public interest determination that it has thiswaiver proceeding, and it gives the regulating entity --QUESTION: That's something that I don't fullygrasp in your argument. First you say, this is fullyautomatic, this cancellation of the license. You don'tpay up, license gone. But then you say, but we can extendthe time if we want to. We can use our discretion. Well,the automatic argument seems at war with the discretionargument.GENERAL CLEMENT: Well, I mean, there is sometension there, and the FCC has been at pains to try tomake sure that it doesn't bend over one way too far or theother. In its restructuring order that I think iscritical in this case. It froze the payments -- itsuspended the payments ultimately for months, and thenit also provided some restructuring options that requiredfurther modifications of its rules.QUESTION: Well --GENERAL CLEMENT: When it did that -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: Go ahead.GENERAL CLEMENT: When it did that, not only didsome people complain that they didn't give enoughregulatory relief, but other disappointed bidders ran tothe D.C. Circuit and said, look, you've acted arbitrarilyand capriciously because you haven't stuck with yourpre-auction rules.QUESTION: But this doesn't sound at all likethe question presented, which says at auction,automatically cancel upon the winning bidder's failure tomake timely payments to fulfill its winning bid. It --when you were drafting that question, it sounds like yourperception of the thing was quite different than it isnow.GENERAL CLEMENT: Well, again I think the keyis, the payments do cancel automatically after all theefforts to get the payments extended have failed, andthat's just not like a hypothetical consideration in thiscase, because in this very case --QUESTION: I agree, you've said two differentthings there. If it's automatic, it happened withoutwhatever happened next. But you're saying itautomatically canceled after attempts to collect failed.GENERAL CLEMENT: No, no, not after attemptsto -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: So when was the automatic trigger?GENERAL CLEMENT: The automatic trigger is whensomebody fails to make a payment --QUESTION: All right. Is that enough?GENERAL CLEMENT: And -- no, it's really notenough, if you look at the broader perspective of theregulation, because there's an alternative way to get outof the automatic cancellation. It's not -- if you're aregulated entity and you don't want your license tocancel, you don't go to the commission and say, don'tapply the automatic cancellation. What you do is, you goto the commission and you say, I've a regulatory payment. It's going to be due April . I'm not in a good positionto make that payment, so what I'd like you to do is relaxthe payment deadline, and --QUESTION: And you say you have the authority torelax the payment date?GENERAL CLEMENT: Not only does the commissionhave the authority to do that --QUESTION: If that's true --GENERAL CLEMENT: -- it did it in this verycase.QUESTION: If that's true, why don't you settlethe case today? They say they can pay in full today.GENERAL CLEMENT: Well, the reason we don't th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC settle the case today, although obviously there wereefforts to try to settle this, which would requirecongressional legislation, which we were unable to get ina timely fashion, but the reason that they are not in aposition to cure their defaults, if you will, is becauseour view is that they have -- the opportunity to cure haspassed. The licenses have actually already --QUESTION: But is the option to cure -- if youwanted to settle, would you be disabled from settling, orcould you settle, decide, well, we think it would be wiseregulation now to accept the payment?GENERAL CLEMENT: I think it would be within theagency's discretion to settle the litigation at thispoint. Now, of course, if we did that, I'm sure, as inthe last time the commission tried to relax its rules, I'msure we'd draw a D.C. Circuit challenge to that exerciseof discretion to relax the rules. But the very fact thatthere is that reservoir of discretion to relax the rulesdemonstrates that the ultimate cancellation is not a sole-cause cancellation.QUESTION: I think -- so it is really a legalissue, whether you have that discretion or not? I mean,there are people who say you don't have that discretion.GENERAL CLEMENT: Absolutely.QUESTION: Well, do we have to decide that in th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC this case? I didn't realize that was one of the issuespresented. That may be a more important issue than the,you know, few billion dollars involved here.GENERAL CLEMENT: Well --QUESTION: Right?(Laughter.)GENERAL CLEMENT: But I don't think -- whetheror not the FCC has the authority to exercise thatdiscretion in a particular case might be an issue, butit's undisputed that they have that right as a generalmatter and, in fact, NextWave wouldn't be here today ifthe FCC didn't have the authority to offer discretionaryrelaxation of its rules. When NextWave's --QUESTION: Well, you might not be here, but Imean, we're just assuming that it had that. The case ishere. That is not one of the questions presented. Ifrankly don't want to decide that question, because thatis not one of the things I've given a lot of attention to. It sounds to me very, you know, at least quite arguablewhether they ought to have that authority.GENERAL CLEMENT: Well, Justice Scalia, I don'treally think it's in dispute, because in this very casethe payment deadline --QUESTION: I agree it's not in dispute, whichmeans we don't have to decide it. It's not presented in th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC the case.QUESTION: -- the question.GENERAL CLEMENT: Well, I --QUESTION: Mr. Clement, the respondent alsomakes a right-to-cure argument under the bankruptcy law,and you haven't addressed that, I take it, in your briefs,anyway.GENERAL CLEMENT: No. We think theright-to-cure argument is best addressed on remand. I dothink there are two reasons why the right to cure is notany longer available to NextWave. One is that thelicenses automatically canceled on their own terms. Thesecond reason is that the license restriction, thelicenses themselves had a restriction on transfer oralienation, and there's law under U.S.C. that dealswith executory obligations that says that the debtor inpossession cannot take possession of a license, assume theobligations of a license if there are restrictions on itsalienation or transfer.QUESTION: In FCC practice, have you everrevoked a license and then decided that you're going toreissue it to the initial holder?GENERAL CLEMENT: Well, there have beensituations like that, not necessarily in the C-Blocklicense situation, but there was a situation with respect th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC to a different program where a license canceled by its ownterms by a failure to renew, and the commission renewedthat license largely on the basis of the fact that thatlicensee was already providing service, and so the resultof revoking the license would be to deny people servicethat was currently being provided.Now, in the reconsideration order that's thesubject --QUESTION: Well, a reconsideration order isdifferent, but a new issuance it seems to me is quitequestionable so far as the discretion of the agency, and Ithink I agree with some of my colleagues, I'm not surethat's before us.GENERAL CLEMENT: Well, I think that particularinstance is particularly relevant, because NextWave reliedon that in its reconsideration proceedings before thecommission. And the commission, in rejecting that, Ithink demonstrated why this isn't a case of sole-causecancellation. If you look at the commission's reasoningon page a of the petition appendix, the commission says,quote, "NextWave is providing no service. The spectrumlicensed to NextWave has gone unused since early , andrepresents licenses in markets across the UnitedStates."QUESTION: But that same order repeatedly refers th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC to the automatic cancellation rule.GENERAL CLEMENT: Absolutely, it does, and whatthe commission decided in this order, which is underreview in this case, is that it was not going to relax orprovide an exception to the automatic cancellation rule,but the reason it decided that is because NextWave wasn'tproviding service, and that others stood ready to provideservice under that spectrum, and what I would respectfullysuggest is that under those circumstances the cancellationis not a sole-cause cancellation.It also reflects the fact that NextWave wasn'tproviding service, that others stood ready to do it, andthat's enough to take it out of , which is, after all,a very narrowly written provision. It only protectsagainst sole cancellation. It allows the failure to pay adischargeable debt to be a contributing factor in aregulatory decision, indeed, the primary factor in theregulatory decision, just not the sole cause.QUESTION: May I ask just one question aboutyour interpretation of the automatic cancellation? Is itthe commission's view that they could -- there would be acancellation, they could reauction the licenses, and thatthe original licensee would still remain liable for theentire debt?GENERAL CLEMENT: I think the position is they th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC might have an opportunity to go after that as an unsecureddebt in bankruptcy.QUESTION: Yes, but they would remain liable forthe entire debt, in your view?GENERAL CLEMENT: That's true.I'd like to reserve the remainder of my time forrebuttal.QUESTION: Well, may I just follow up on that? I mean, I assumed that was not an issue here because theyhad auctioned them off again and they had mitigated theirdamages. Is that the way the commission treated it?GENERAL CLEMENT: That's an open question beforethe commission that they haven't addressed.Thank you.QUESTION: Very well, Mr. Clement.Mr. Franklin, we'll hear from you.ORAL ARGUMENT OF JONATHAN S. FRANKLINON BEHALF OF PETITIONERS ARCTIC SLOPEREGIONAL CORPORATION, ET AL.MR. FRANKLIN: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court:The question in this case is whether section of the Bankruptcy Code permits a bankrupt company and abankruptcy judge to override the FCC's regulatorydetermination of the public interest and thereby allow the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC company to retain an exclusive entitlement to use theNation's airwaves that the FCC and Congress havedetermined is not in the public interest for it to hold.QUESTION: You refer to it as a regulatorydetermination which, of course, assumes the whole point atissue.MR. FRANKLIN: Well, I don't think it -- I thinkthat that, in fact, is undisputed as this case comesbefore the Court, that the FCC had valid regulatoryreasons for taking the action it did. QUESTION: Then why is it phrased in terms of anautomatic cancellation rule?MR. FRANKLIN: Because the automaticcancellation happened in November of , but one cannotlook at that as a mere snapshot. You have to look at thereasons why the FCC had that rule and the reasons why theFCC had their auction --QUESTION: Why do you have to look at thereasons? I mean, that's what troubles me. The languageof the statute simply says that a governmental unit maynot revoke a charter, franchise, or other similar grant,okay -- it goes on, solely because --MR. FRANKLIN: Right.QUESTION: -- such person is or has been adebtor, blah, blah, or hasn't made a payment. Solely th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC because.MR. FRANKLIN: Right.QUESTION: Now, let's assume that there is aFederal statute that makes discrimination because of, orfailure to hire someone, or let's say, let's say killingsomeone solely because of his race --MR. FRANKLIN: Yes.QUESTION: -- a crime, a separate crime. Andsomeone, let's assume he kills someone who is Jewish, andhe said, well, I didn't kill him solely because he wasJewish; I killed him because I disagree with the policiesof Israel. Does that get him out of the statute?MR. FRANKLIN: Well, I'm not aware of a statutelike that, that says, solely because --QUESTION: Oh, I made it up.MR. FRANKLIN: I know that, but --(Laughter.)MR. FRANKLIN: But it's important. The section is drafted -- is an antidiscrimination statute, butit's drafted differently than other -- title VII, forexample, does not use the word --QUESTION: I'm getting to the question ofwhether the fact that you have some other motive --MR. FRANKLIN: Yes.QUESTION: -- eliminates the sole causality. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC The only reason this person was killed was because he wasJewish, and so also here, the only reason this license wasterminated is because the person hadn't paid.Now, there may be some regulatory motive in thebackground, just as in the hypothetical that I inventedthere was some international political motive in thebackground, but that doesn't alter the fact that theperson was killed solely because he was Jewish, and itseems to me that the license here was revoked solelybecause the payment hadn't been made.MR. FRANKLIN: With respect, Your Honor, theterm because, when it is used in antidiscriminationstatutes, and we have cited cases on page of our replybrief, is used to mean motive. Because means, for thereason that. That's what the definition of the word,because -- when Congress drafted section , it draftedthe statute narrowly. It intended to prohibitarbitrary --QUESTION: Then the statute doesn't coveranything, because every regulatory body that cancels alicense, whenever there's a license involved, you can saythat there is some regulatory motive, as in thehypothetical that I gave to Mr. Clement.MR. FRANKLIN: Well --QUESTION: The motor vehicle cancellation. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. FRANKLIN: I think that -- under section, the mere fact that an agency has said it has aregulatory motive is not sufficient. It has to be a validone that is not simply an arbitrary attempt to collect adebt, and, Your Honors --QUESTION: Okay, can -- on that point, do youagree that the statute is a response to -- the Perez case,the automobile cancellation?MR. FRANKLIN: Yes.QUESTION: There was a regulatory motive there.The regulatory motive is financially responsible drivers. The benefits of that are obvious.MR. FRANKLIN: Well --QUESTION: So if that situation is supposed tobe covered by the statute, then by a parity of reasoning,so would this one be.MR. FRANKLIN: But in Perez the Court examinedthat motive and determined that looking at the statute andlooking at the way it operated, in fact, as the Court putit, the sole emphasis of the statute was not theregulatory purpose. It was -- as the Court said, the soleemphasis was the collection of debts.QUESTION: Okay, then sole emphasis and solepurpose really boils down not to exclusiveness but a kindof proximate or principal causation theory, and if that's th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC the case, certainly here the FCC treated the debtorrelationship as the principal determinant of the varioussteps that it took. First, it insisted on its billion,then when the market changed it said, forget it, we wantto reauction, and if it's a principal or proximate kind ofcausation theory, I don't see how you can prevail.MR. FRANKLIN: I don't think that section embodies a causation theory in the way that Your Honor ispostulating. I think that section most specificallyspeaks about which are the valid considerations that anagency can look at, and in this case one needs to look atthe auction system that Congress established.Congress intended to replace the cumbersomecomparative hearings and unjust lotteries of the past witha new, more streamlined mechanism under which anentitlement to use our airwaves, everybody's airwaves, isallocated to the person that, or the company that valuesit the most, and the way we know that is that they mustmake good on the promises embodied in their auction bid.QUESTION: Then why doesn't automatic meanautomatic? Your brother has just explained that automaticmeans sometimes.MR. FRANKLIN: Automatic --QUESTION: It means automatic without teeth.MR. FRANKLIN: Automatic means automatic, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC although there are opportunities, as --QUESTION: Automatic except where it isn't.MR. FRANKLIN: Well --(Laughter.)MR. FRANKLIN: Our position in this case isthat the cancellation was automatic, but that it wassupported by valid regulatory concerns, and thoseconcerns -- I mean, the auction system mandated byCongress would be completely vitiated if a bidder -- and Irepresent people that, companies that are repeat playersin this game. Bidders cannot come in and obtain anentitlement to use our airwaves by promising that theywill make a payment, and that's the reason why they'reselected --QUESTION: Then Mr. Franklin, why didn'tCongress provide an exception, as it did in, forperishable commodities for the Department of Agriculture?MR. FRANKLIN: Well --QUESTION: If there is this nonbankruptcyoverriding concern, then we have one example whereCongress responded to it by saying the bankruptcyprovision isn't going to prevail.MR. FRANKLIN: Well, I -- no exception wasneeded here. The agriculture programs allow the Secretaryof Agriculture to do what the FCC may not do here, and th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC that is to cancel a license solely because of a failure, abankruptcy status.Now, if you look at the statutes that are citedin our reply brief, the agriculture statutes, they allowthe Secretary of Agriculture to terminate an agriculturallicense where somebody has been discharged frombankruptcy, ever in the past, or even if a partner or ashareholder of a company has been discharged frombankruptcy.Now, the legislative history of that specificexemption makes clear that Congress -- there was a debatein Congress as to whether the solely because languagewould cover that, whether there was a regulatory purposeor not, and Congress felt like they didn't want to have todeal with that.In this case, however, it is undisputed therewas a valid regulatory purpose, and with respect, JusticeScalia, I do not --QUESTION: Of course, nothing in the FederalCommunications Act requires the Federal CommunicationsCommission to stand as the guarantor, you know, to holdthe bag for the person that they're giving away thismultibillion-dollar license to. They could require cashon the barrelhead, couldn't they? And let the person whowants the license get a loan from some bank, let them be th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC stuck holding the bag.MR. FRANKLIN: But even in that --QUESTION: So there's no regulatory necessityfor this whole tragedy, is there?MR. FRANKLIN: No, with respect, if one looks ata cash-on-the-barrelhead system, the way the FCC auctionswork, and our clients are deeply involved in them, onedoes not get the license right after becoming the highbidder. There is a period of time in which the FCC has tolook at various factors and people have the right to filepetitions to deny. Under NextWave's interpretation ofsection , which prohibits an agency from denying alicense to anyone for failing to pay a dischargeable debt,under their interpretation the FCC would be required togrant a license to somebody who has been declared the highbidder and then declares bankruptcy the next day.What NextWave is doing here is truly gaming thesystem. They are saying, it's a heads I win, tails youlose scenario. We can go into bankruptcy, we get thelicense because we promised that we would pay more thananybody else would --QUESTION: May I stop you in your hypothetical,because I thought you don't get the license till after youhave make the down payment.MR. FRANKLIN: You make a down payment, and th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC NextWave made their down payment.QUESTION: Yes, but they didn't have any licenseuntil they did that.MR. FRANKLIN: But what I'm saying is, even on acash-on-the-barrelhead system the FCC does not requirefull payment, it can't require full payment until theyactually grant the license, and that is a several-monthlag between the time when you're declared the highbidder -- in one case, in my client's case it was morethan a year after they were declared the high bidder forlicenses, and they actually received them, because ofproceedings that were filed.QUESTION: The rationale offered by thecommission here was that the policies of the FCC outweighthe policies of the Bankruptcy Act. Is there authorityfor us to defer to the commission in making that kind of adetermination? I mean, why don't we defer to theBankruptcy Court, which says the policies of theBankruptcy Act are more important than the policies of the-- MR. FRANKLIN: I don't think that the FCC hasdeference in interpreting the Bankruptcy Code, but I don'tthink it's a question of whether one policy outweighs theother. I think --QUESTION: Well, that's the explicit rationale th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC of the commission.MR. FRANKLIN: Well, our rationale --QUESTION: That's what it said.MR. FRANKLIN: Our rationale is that they can beharmonized, and should be harmonized. For example, theexception, the regulatory exception to the automatic --QUESTION: So that you don't defend therationale offered by the commission?MR. FRANKLIN: I'm not sure that that is theexact rationale, but we think that the policies can beharmonized and should be harmonized.QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. Franklin.Mr. Verrilli.ORAL ARGUMENT OF DONALD B. VERRILLION BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTSMR. VERRILLI: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court:The record is clear that the FCC revokedNextWave's licenses solely because NextWave deferred apayment to the FCC while reorganizing in bankruptcy. Twoand a half years ago the FCC blocked NextWave's bankruptcyreorganization, and it did so by announcing thatNextWave's licenses had automatically canceled becauseNextWave had deferred a loan payment to the FCC in .QUESTION: What do you mean, had deferred it? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. VERRILLI: Well, because NextWave --QUESTION: You mean, failed to make it?MR. VERRILLI: It did not make it, yes. It didnot make it.QUESTION: Why don't we say that?MR. VERRILLI: It did not make it --(Laughter.)MR. VERRILLI: -- in .QUESTION: There might have been some legalmumbo-jumbo that had caused the payment not to be due.MR. VERRILLI: Well, we were reorganizing inbankruptcy --QUESTION: You didn't pay it. You didn't payit.MR. VERRILLI: -- and we did not pay because wewere reorganizing, that's right.Now, throughout the proceedings in this case theFCC has never identified a ground, other than that singlenonpayment, that would support revocation of the licenses,and that's because there isn't one. What the FCC has doneinstead, and what it's done here this morning, is toinstead suggest that section of the Bankruptcy Codeought not apply because the FCC had a regulatory or publicinterest purpose for making a nonpayment an automatic soletrigger for revocation of a license, but in passing the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Bankruptcy Code, Congress already weighed the publicinterests, and section of the code is a clearexpression of Congress's judgment about where the publicinterest lies.QUESTION: But they say it's not automatic. What do you say to that?MR. VERRILLI: I think the record utterly andcompletely refutes that proposition, and it does so in thefollowing ways. The regulation that they cite, which is. of their rules, and it's at page of theappendix to the petition, says that the licenses cancelautomatically upon nonpayment. The face of the licensesays that the licenses cancel automatically uponnonpayment and for no other reason.The announcement of the license cancellation inthis case in January said that the licenses canceledautomatically for nonpayment and no other reason.QUESTION: But we know how the commission hasinterpreted it. I mean, they did say, we're going to giveyou a moratorium. We're going to give you a chance, andwe'll make a deal for you. You give back some of thoselicenses, and we'll work out a settlement, and for oneyear the FCC said, it's okay if you don't pay while we'reconsidering some kind of settlement, so --MR. VERRILLI: Yes, Justice Ginsburg, in the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC restructuring orders they did do that, but that doesn'tmake the revocation any less automatic. All it did wasmove the date back in a legislative, quasi-legislativerulemaking, move the date from when it would initiallyhave occurred to a later time. When --QUESTION: But if there had been such asettlement, then there could have been some, at least,licenses retained even though there had been thenonpayment, which is supposed to be an automatic trigger.MR. VERRILLI: Well, yes, Justice Ginsburg, butthe date was suspended by the FCC well in advance. Thepayment date was suspended well in advance of itsoccurrence, so a payment date never came and went withoutNextWave or any other licensee failing to make a payment. All that happened here was that in advance of the paymentdate, the FCC moved the payment date, but when it did so,it reaffirmed --QUESTION: There had not been a failure to makean earlier payment?MR. VERRILLI: That's exactly right, JusticeScalia. This was suspended in advance of the due date forthe first payment.QUESTION: Okay, so --QUESTION: Mr. Verrilli, let me ask you aboutsomething else. The bankruptcy court, as I understand it, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ordered a $. billion reduction in the purchase price onconstructive broad grounds, is that right?MR. VERRILLI: That is right, Justice O'Connor.QUESTION: And if we were to affirm here, doesthe FCC have any power to prevent a bankruptcy court fromreducing the price in that fashion?MR. VERRILLI: Yes.QUESTION: That's very strange.MR. VERRILLI: Yes, it does, and it's alreadybeen taken care of, in fact. The question under theavoidance provisions of the Bankruptcy Code is when thedebtor's obligation becomes due, and the issue here waswhether the obligation became due on the date of theauction or, instead, later, at the time the licenses wereawarded. Now, that is a matter entirely within thecontrol of the FCC. All they have to do is make clear intheir regulations when the obligation attaches.The reason that there was a problem here wasthat the regulations suggested that the obligationattached later and, therefore, if the value of the assetdeclined from the time of the initial auction to the timeof the license award, section would apply. But theFCC has changed its regulations, and at this point it isunambiguous that the obligation attaches at the time ofthe auction -- and therefore can't operate. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: Well, didn't the second circuit setaside the bankruptcy order in that case? MR. VERRILLI: -- and it did. It's just anonissue. It's just -- that issue is just a nonissue, andin any event it isn't -- the question really here iswhether the FCC, when it effectively acts as a lender, isgoing to be treated any differently than a private companywhen it acts as a lender.QUESTION: That is the question. That's myquestion. As I read the statute, it seems to me, for atleast your argument's sake, it is solely because, andmoreover, of course this statute governs the FCC, but inreading the statute, I don't see how this statute was atall intended to govern the instance in which theGovernment is acting as creditor in respect to receivingpayment for a good that it has sold.Now, I base that on first reading the purposesof this in the history, and reading the whole legislativehistory, which will not convince some of my colleagues, but nonetheless is a factor in what I think, and I thinkthat this is clearly about a future loan, a futuresituation in which the future situation, the Government isforbidden to discriminate against a human being because hewas once in bankruptcy.This seems to be to balance, to bring back into th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC balance the Government vis-a-vis the private creditor. Ifyou're right in your interpretation, and I am wrong, I seeno way whatsoever in which the Government would have theright to take a secured interest or in any other waycollect a debt which a human being owes it for buying alicense.response.Now, that's my question. I want to get yourMR. VERRILLI: My response is the following,Justice Breyer. First, the text of is unambiguous. It applies to someone who is or was a debtor, and itapplies to debts that are dischargeable, as well as thosethat have been discharged and, therefore, it is clear onthe face of the statute that it applies and protectscompanies while they are reorganizing and before the debtsare discharged, so I think on the face of the statutethat's -- it's not correct. It's not the right reading ofthe statute.And in terms of what it does in operation, it'sthis. Now, if -- if this had been a situation where theFCC had demanded cash on the barrelhead up front, andNextWave had gone and bid and gone out and borrowed thatmoney from a bank, and had to pay the bank over time, andthen filed for bankruptcy, there would be no question thatthat, that the debt to the bank could be reorganized and th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC disposed of in the normal manner in bankruptcy.QUESTION: Well, I'm not sure about that. Ithink if you accept the FCC's argument here, they wouldsay we have a regulatory purpose, because we want it -- wewant these licenses to be given to people who have thefinancial responsibility to operate the radio stations andso forth. The arguments they made would continue to applyto that situation.MR. VERRILLI: Well --QUESTION: So I wouldn't say there's noquestion.MR. VERRILLI: That's a --QUESTION: I think if we accept their argumenthere, we would probably have to accept it in the othersituation.MR. VERRILLI: Well, I think if we -- well, Ithink that that point is exactly right, Justice Scalia,that the Government's regulatory purpose argument, ifaccepted, would give them the authority to revoke licensesnot only when the payment was not made to the Government,but not made to private parties.QUESTION: So far, I'm trying to get the answerto my question, and so far, in terms of my interpretation,the second point you made is in terms of to theapplicability, if my interpretation is right. I want to th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC know if it's right, and I only come up with one thing thatyou've said so far, which is text, which is important --(Laughter.)QUESTION: -- but I learned the second year oflaw school, I learned the second year of law school -- andobviously many of my colleagues don't agree with me, but Ilearned the second year of law school that when you have atext which says "all," that there are often implied, not-written exceptions. All animals in the park. No animalsin the park doesn't necessarily apply to a pet oyster,okay, and so --QUESTION: Well, it's not an animal. QUESTION: Thank you. An oyster in my course inbiology is an animal, all right.(Laughter.)QUESTION: Maybe in yours it was a rock, or avegetable or a mineral. But regardless, you see my point,and my question, of course, is that since that's how Iread statutes -- not everybody -- is that I findexceptions implicit in statutes where to fail to read thatexception is to destroy the purpose of the statute, and isnot backed by anything in respect to what the people whowrote it want.MR. VERRILLI: Well --QUESTION: Now, I believe it destroys the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC purpose of the statute because I see no way in which theGovernment as creditor could collect the money it's owedthrough a secured interest in what they've sold, if myinterpretation is wrong.MR. VERRILLI: No, it --QUESTION: Now, I'm putting that as strong as Ican. I want to get a complete answer.MR. VERRILLI: Two points. First, theGovernment can collect its interest as a secured creditorin exactly the same way a private lender could through thebankruptcy system. It has enormous protections throughthe bankruptcy system as a secured creditor. It gets,it's percent entitled under the Bankruptcy Code to thefull value of the licenses, and it has numerous otherprotections under the code. It can make an electionunder --QUESTION: Can I stop you right there? How doesit do that? Because when it goes to enforce its securedinterest, I take it it's revoking the license because ofthe money that was due it. And so how do you -- when yougo in to enforce your secured interest in the bankruptcycourt, and the bankruptcy judge on the other side reads(c), on your interpretation, how does he do it?Because it's just like this case. They're revoking it.MR. VERRILLI: You can't -- the FCC, like a th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC private lender, can't foreclose on the lien. It has to --its debt has to be processed through the bankruptcysystem.QUESTION: Of course it should. That's logical. My point is, how does the bankruptcy judge at that pointget around the language of , on your interpretation ofit, since on your interpretation of it, you would betaking back the license because of failure to pay a debt.MR. VERRILLI: Right. They can't -- under theBankruptcy Code they can't take back the license. Theycan get their secured claim paid to the same extent that aprivate lender could, but they can't --QUESTION: So they cannot take a securedinterest in the license?MR. VERRILLI: Yes, they can, and -- but justas --QUESTION: They don't take the license back ifthey cause the debtor to have to sell the license and totake the money from the sale of the license and give it tothe FCC. Isn't that what's going on? That's differentfrom a cancellation of the license. The license subsists,and the debtor can sell it to somebody else, or thebankruptcy court on behalf of the debtor can sell it tosomebody else, is that right? Does that need approvalfrom the FCC? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. VERRILLI: The transfer would, to somebodyelse would need approval from the FCC, but the key pointhere is that section --QUESTION: But that's different from acancellation, isn't it?MR. VERRILLI: Yes, it is different from acancellation, and the key point here I think, JusticeBreyer, in answer to your question ultimately, is that is in the Bankruptcy Code to protect the right toreorganize. What it says is that those who holdGovernment licenses cannot be denied the ability to invokethe bankruptcy process and reorganize solely because theydo what the Bankruptcy Code allows them to do.Without this protection, licensing agencies wouldhave the ability to force insolvent debtors to liquidate,because it would have the power to revoke their permissionto do business solely because they hadn't paid a debt, orsolely because even they were in bankruptcy, and thatwould --QUESTION: Can the FCC -- can an FCC licenseeencumber the license? Can it pledge the license tosome -- to a bank that's giving it a loan?MR. VERRILLI: Yes, it can. It can give it asa -- it can -- the answer to that is yes. There are somerestrictions on it, but the answer to that is yes, it can. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC If I could, I'd like to get back to the questionof whether this was, in fact, an automatic revocation, andthe reconsideration order, which is the order under reviewhere, is the order in which the FCC says principally thatit departed from the automatic character of therevocation, but that reconsideration order says no fewerthan times by my count that the revocation wasautomatic, and there's one statement in that in particularwhich I think should put to rest as a factual matter thequestion of whether this was anything other than anautomatic cancellation, and that's at page a of theappendix to the petition, and it's right at the bottom ofthe page, before the footnote.And the FCC says in the reconsideration order,thus, the only way that NextWave could have avoided theloss of its licenses, even under the rule interpretationit urges, was to avoid a default by making full and timelypayment on or before the payment due date. If the onlyway that NextWave could have avoided default was by makingthe payment, then there is nothing else that could havebeen shown, and nothing else that could have happened inthe reconsideration process or any waiver process, thatwould have provided an additional ground for revocation.And if I could also point the court to astatement on the prior page, page a: For all these th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC reasons we reject NextWave's interpretation of our defaultand cancellation rules and reaffirm that the failure tomake full payment in a timely manner, following exhaustionof all applicable grace periods, constitutes a default andresults in the automatic cancellation of the licensewithout further commission action.Their theory is that this happens by operationof law on the day after nonpayment. It is as automatic asanything can be, and nothing about the reconsiderationprocess, and nothing about their waiver authority changesthat one iota.QUESTION: Well, at least according to thispresentation the FCC said that it does have discretion togrant relief from the automatic cancellation.MR. VERRILLI: Well, but they said in thereconsideration order that they were not going to do that,ever, because it was an automatic cancellation.They also said in the restructuring orders,Justice Ginsburg, that you referred to earlier, in each ofthe restructuring orders they said they would not grant awaiver of the payment deadline under any circumstances,and then when individual licensees sought waivers, the FCCrejected the waiver requests, and it cited back to thoseprovisions in the restructuring order saying, we told youthis was an automatic rule, and we reject your request, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC and it did so even in instances, in two cases where thelicensees were providing service. And so there's just noquestion that this was an automatic cancellation rule andtherefore precisely at the core of what section forbids the FCC or any other licensing agencies fromdoing.If I may, I want to turn to the question ofwhether there is any conflict between the FCC's exerciseof its authority under section (j) and the BankruptcyCode. The answer is, as a statutory matter there is noconflict, because the FCC was not required to have aninstallment payment plan, and even if it were required tohave one there wouldn't be a conflict because Congressdidn't say that the FCC had to make license revocationautomatic upon nonpayment. So the FCC's argument reallyis an implied repeal argument here, that (j) implicitlyrepeals in some applications, but --QUESTION: Assuming we think there's a conflict,is there any authority for the agency's assertion that ithas the authority to determine which statute outweighs theother?MR. VERRILLI: Yes, and the authority is exactlycontrary to the position that the FCC deserves deference. The FCC deserves deference only with respect tointerpretation of its own statute, not with respect to the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Bankruptcy Code. So the answer is clearly that they don'tget any deference, and -- but there isn't any conflict. All there is is the FCC -- there isn't any statutoryconflict. All there is, the only conflict arises from theFCC's desire to make this an automatic cancellation rule,and the conflict is between an FCC policy choice and adirective from Congress. When the conflict is at thatlevel, there's no doubt about what the answer is, which isthat the directive from Congress prevails.QUESTION: If they just simply changed theirrules to say the FCC "may" cancel the license in the eventof the nonpayment of any installment, that would beenough?MR. VERRILLI: No.QUESTION: No?MR. VERRILLI: No, because what forbids arethe grounds on which the license is revoked, so if thelicense is revoked solely because of nonpayment ofdischargeable debt, then whether there's a rule or not --QUESTION: Oh, it isn't solely because of that. That is a necessary but not a sufficient condition. TheFCC would be saying, we will consider the regulatorysituation. If you fail to make a payment, you arerevocable, but we won't revoke necessarily. It dependsupon the regulatory situation. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. VERRILLI: I think that would violate ,but for a different reason.QUESTION: Ah, okay.MR. VERRILLI: And it's this. doesn'tmerely forbid revocation for nonpayment. It forbidsdiscrimination, and it forbids imposing conditions solelybecause of nonpayment, solely because of being inbankruptcy, so --QUESTION: What does the word "solely" do? Ican follow what you just said if it simply said becauseof, but Congress wrote solely, and that has to have somefunction.MR. VERRILLI: I think it does have severalfunctions. For example, Your Honor, the FCC has a build-out rule for these licenses, says you have to build themout within years, and to serve, a requirement that wewere in compliance with, by the way. But if we hadn'tbeen in compliance with them and the FCC had moved torevoke the licenses because we weren't in compliance withthe build-out rule, and we had said, well, the reason weare not in compliance with the build-out rule is thatwe're in bankruptcy and we can't pay the vendors to buildit out, that would be a situation in which the FCC couldenforce its rule, even though at some level it is becausewe were in bankruptcy. It's just not "solely" because. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC It's because we violated a neutral rule that was notfocused solely on nonpayment. And I think there would beother circumstances in which the fact of nonpayment couldbe a consideration in a broader or a different -- in abroader or different set of circumstances.But when you have what you have here, is whereit is the only consideration, the only factor, thedeterminative consideration, that is the paradigm case ofviolation of . What the FCC has done, it's --QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. Verrilli.Mr. Tribe, we'll hear from you.ORAL ARGUMENT OF LAURENCE H. TRIBEON BEHALF OF CREDITORS NEXTWAVE COMMUNICATIONS, INC., as amicus curiaeMR. TRIBE: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it pleasethe Court:Clearly, we're dealing in with somethingthat is an exercise of regulatory power, and as severalmembers of the Court have noted, it's always possible tosay, even though we are revoking or canceling this licenseautomatically because you didn't make the payment, we haveother motives in mind, responsible, financiallyresponsible drivers on the road. We are not simply out toget you because of the dollars.That's, of course, not what this statute is th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC about. The whole point of the Perez decision was to getrid of Kesler and Reitz, which required peering into the mind of the bureaucrats, not always a wonderful vision tobehold, and not clear. This is a causation provision, andlet me turn to Justice Ginsburg's question from theperspective of creditors who need to be able to rely on abright line test of whether something was done solelybecause of nonpayment of a dischargeable debt, or solelybecause of insolvency, or solely because of an invocationof Chapter .The word solely, I think, does serve a functionthere, and that is, in its absence I suppose it would bepossible for a licensee in regulatory default, a licenseewho hadn't built out, to hide behind the existence of afiscal default and say, you see, it's because of the factthat I didn't make a payment, not because I didn't buildout. Then one has a complicated mess, and from the pointof view of creditors who need to know whether an agency isgoing to pull out the lifeline without which this entireedifice collapses and is just a bunch of hardware, notworth anything more than the separate parts, from thepoint of view of creditors who need to know, it seems tome a very clear test is needed, and that is, was this thesole trigger? Have they come up with some othersubstantive, independent basis which either was the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC necessary cause or a sufficient cause? That's what theD.C. Circuit said, and it makes sense.QUESTION: Mr. Tribe, what do you say inresponse to Justice Breyer's point that the statute reallydeals with a situation in which the Government agency isnot the creditor? That's what it basically was --MR. TRIBE: Well, I -- in a way, I think thatthat makes our point all the stronger, that is, even whenthe agency has no conflict of interest, it might not be init for the money, and one wonders here why, for example, why they don't yank the license when the debt is owed toprivate creditors? Doesn't that show in just the same waythat they're not reliable? That is, in this very case --QUESTION: No, no -- well, they want their moneyis all.MR. TRIBE: Well, money --QUESTION: They want their money, but there aretaxicab licenses, there are nuclear power licenses --licensing is the most common thing in the world. Youoften pay for it, and what I really am worried about is,imagine they took a secured interest in the license, andon your interpretation, how do they get the taxicablicense back --MR. TRIBE: Well --QUESTION: -- which the guy never paid the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC $, for?MR. TRIBE: -- the license on myinterpretation --QUESTION: Yes. Yes.MR. TRIBE: -- does not cancel and atconfirmation the license is one of the assets of theestate, and at that point --QUESTION: Well, they could get it back -- inother words, they could take it back because they didn'trevoke it.MR. TRIBE: No, they don't take it back. Thatis, when -- there are a number of things in the estate atconfirmation.QUESTION: I'm a creditor, I'm a privatecreditor, I say I have a secured interest in this, it'smine, okay. I sell it at auction. Now, the FCC --MR. TRIBE: I'm sorry, Justice Breyer. Thebankruptcy court is filled with elaborate rules about whenyou can and cannot foreclose. That is, an asset is partof the estate at confirmation, and whether you're going tobe able to get your money back is a function of whetheryou are under or oversecured. There are provisions in(b) for dealing with both situations. Your situationis no worse when you are a regulator than the Bank ofAmerica, or one of the clients in our case, Citicorp, and th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC no better.QUESTION: That's the part that's preciselybothering me, my situation is no worse.When I read the statute, it seems to me mysituation is worse, because if the statute applies here,it applies there, and you and your colleague both tell meno, that isn't so, and if you can show me it isn't so, myproblem disappears.MR. TRIBE: What I'm saying, Justice Breyer, isthat after bankruptcy, if NextWave, for example, were toemerge from bankruptcy they would still have the license,but only on conditions in which you as the FCC, like othercreditors, in light of your secured interest, had taken anappropriate piece of the pie. You don't get it all,that's the point. Nor does a private creditor get tograb the license and all the value from all the othercreditors and, in fact, when you are an agency that iswearing really two sets of shoes, the ordinary regulator'srunning shoes but also the wing tips of the creditoragency, it makes the situation worse, not better.That is, this law is designed to assure thateven the agency, which does not have a monetary interest,can't simply yank all the value for itself because it hasthe power over this license.If the agency, on top of all that, is a creditor th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC and has that additional set of incentives, then it's allthe worse. You wonder, for example, why it is that in theMMDS licenses, in which there are licenses that are heldby a number of bankrupt licensees who did not make thepayments they promised to make, why it is that the FCCdoes not regard them as not having been what they lookedlike at the time of the bid. The reason is that it's beenpaid in full. So it really is a situation in which theFCC's position as a creditor should not redound to itscredit. If anything, that makes this statute all the morevital.The capital formation that is necessary to make(j) work, to make it possible, Justice Scalia,sometimes not to demand all the money up front, but tohave something more creative, maybe demand letters ofcredit, guarantees, none of that can work if creditors whoput in over half a billion dollars, not in a gamble but ona very careful business plan that was completely carriedout, they're not providing service, but Catch-, it'sbecause their attempt to emerge and fully cure any defaultwas frustrated by the agency that saw pie in the sky,large numbers.In that situation, for the agency to be able tocollapse the capital formation here tells us somethingrather unpleasant about the future. How likely is it that th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Citicorp and the California and Kansas pension funds andall of the other organizations that have put money in onreliance on the way section works will do this againnext time around?The formation of capital, the market on whichthe FCC chose to rely, choosing to rely in the capacity ofa first lender, with no more or less secured protectionthan others, that whole system depends on, in the mostliteral sense, the rule of law. It does not depend on thequestion whether we can attribute to the regulator somemotive that does not relate solely to the money. So ifthe system is to work the way the FCC claims, is adead letter.Now, if you were right, Justice Breyer, if therereally was a problem that couldn't be solved in the waythe confirmation rules work, in the way the pie is dividedup, then maybe, as with perishable commodities, therewould be a problem for Congress to solve. Congress has insection enumerated categories of debts that are notdischargeable in bankruptcy, and sometimes it does it inanother statute, not always in the Bankruptcy Code. Theseare policy judgments about whether something is uniqueabout the situation that requires treating the Governmentin some different way, the way the Department ofAgriculture is treated. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. Tribe.MR. TRIBE: Thank you.QUESTION: Mr. Clement, you have minutesremaining.REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF PAUL D. CLEMENTON BEHALF OF PETITIONERFEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSIONGENERAL CLEMENT: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice. Let me first address Justice O'Connor's very properconcern that licensees are going to be able to enjoy theirlicenses for much less than they agreed to pay thecommission. That is not a dead letter and, in fact, oneof the cases that is being held for this case involvesKansas PCS, where the bankruptcy court approved the planthat gave the FCC cents on the dollar for the value ofits licenses.Now, it's true that one mechanism to get thelicenses for less than they paid for, the fraudulentconveyance theory, is something that the FCC can address. That was the GWI bankruptcy, where the FCC only got cents on the dollar. But there's a second way to do it,which is to only give the FCC the value for its securityinterest, the value of the licenses at that point, and thebankruptcy court did that in Kansas PCS, and only gave thecommission cents on the dollar. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Second, let me address Justice Kennedy's concernwith, where's the authority for the FCC to take intoaccount bankruptcy policy concerns? The authority comesfrom a D.C. Circuit decision called LaRose, which is citedon page a of the decision, the reconsideration decisionthat's under review. The LaRose decision is a D.C.Circuit decision that tells the FCC that it must takebankruptcy policy considerations into account.Now --QUESTION: It's not binding on us, certainly?GENERAL CLEMENT: Well, it is binding on theFCC, though, and the FCC tried to do its best to takebankruptcy considerations into account. Now, if it failedto do it properly --QUESTION: But this, they're saying that they'renot going to take bankruptcy considerations into account.GENERAL CLEMENT: No, they did. They did, andagain I think they -- one of the reasons they tookbankruptcy considerations into account is by extendingpayments for all the C-Block licensees for months. Butif you think the problem here is that the FCC didn't dothe right balancing of bankruptcy policy andtelecommunications policy, then the D.C. Circuit or thiscase could reverse for an arbitrary capriciousness, butthat's not the role of . th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC is an exceedingly narrow provision thatsimply prevents a regulator under any circumstances fromcanceling a license solely because, and here it's just nottrue that the failure to make a payment was the soletrigger, because you have to look at it in context, andwhat triggered default is the failure to make a payment ofa payment that was due for a particular reason.Now, anybody in -- any FCC licensee could havegone to the commission and tried to get a furtherextension of that payment deadline. They'd already gottenextended months. They could have gotten extended evenfurther, and it's hard for me to understand how there's asole trigger when the very payment deadline that issupposed to be -- trigger the automatic cancellation isitself the reflection of a multifactor public interestdetermination by the commission. They extended it months but no further, based on a consideration of thepublic interest.Now, on Justice Breyer's concern about what'sgoing on here, I think your concern is exactly right, andwhat sense does it make from a bankruptcy policy todisable the Government to make installment payments?QUESTION: Exactly right. Why didn't you argueit?GENERAL CLEMENT: Well, I think -- no, I th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC think -- I think --(Laughter.)GENERAL CLEMENT: I think -- there's two reasonswe didn't argue it. One, we did -- there is that flavorin the brief, but the other reason is, you at one pointsaid, doesn't the commission just want the money? That'sactually not true. What we want is, we want the licensesback --QUESTION: I know, but if they did, it's such anobvious argument that I feel there's something wrong withit because you didn't argue it.GENERAL CLEMENT: Don't worry -- thank you, YourHonor.CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: Thank you, Mr.Clement. The case is submitted.(Whereupon, at : a.m., the case in theabove-entitled matter was submitted.) th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC 