 IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XJO ANNE B. BARNHART, COMMISSIONER OF SOCIAL SECURITY, Petitioner ::::v. : No. -PEABODY COAL COMPANY, ET AL.; :and MICHAEL H. HOLLAND, ET AL., Petitioners :::v. : No. -BELLAIRE CORPORATION, ET AL. :- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XWashington, D.C.Tuesday, October , The above-entitled matter came on for oralargument before the Supreme Court of the United States at: a.m.APPEARANCES:BARBARA B. McDOWELL, ESQ., Assistant to the SolicitorGeneral, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; onbehalf of Petitioner Barnhart.PETER BUSCEMI, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf of Petitioners Holland, et al. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC JOHN G. ROBERTS, JR., ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalfof Respondents Peabody Coal Company, et al.JEFFREY S. SUTTON, ESQ., Columbus, Ohio; on behalf ofRespondents Bellaire Corporation, et al. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC C O N T E N T SORAL ARGUMENT OF BARBARA B. McDOWELL, ESQ.On behalf of Petitioner Barnhart PETER BUSCEMI, ESQ.On behalf of Petitioners Holland, et al. JOHN G. ROBERTS, JR., ESQ.On behalf of Respondents Peabody CoalCompany, et al. JEFFREY S. SUTTON, ESQ.On behalf of Respondents Bellaire Corporation, et al. REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OFBARBARA B. McDOWELL, ESQ.On behalf of Petitioner Barnhart PAGE th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC P R O C E E D I N G S(: a.m.)CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: We'll hear argumentnext in No. -, Jo Anne Barnhart v. Peabody CoalCompany and a related case.We'll wait just a minute.Ms. McDowell.ORAL ARGUMENT OF BARBARA B. McDOWELLON BEHALF OF PETITIONER BARNHARTMS. McDOWELL: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court:The Coal Act states that the Commissioner ofSocial Security shall, before October st, , assigneach beneficiary to a signatory coal operator or relatedperson that remains in business. That provisionunderstood, in light of this Court's precedents,establishes the deadline that is mandatory but notjurisdictional. It does not deprive the commissioner ofthe power or the obligation to complete the assignmentsafter that date, if necessary. That understanding comports with the text andstructure of the Coal Act, as well as with -- with one ofits central purposes, that to the maximum extent possible,each coal retiree's benefits would be paid for by a coaloperator that actually employed that miner or a related th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC person.QUESTION: But that's not true. In fact, iflater research has showed that somebody should have beenassigned somewhere else, you -- you don't shift thebeneficiaries. It -- it isn't the case that -- that thisis designed to assure a perfect system in which somebodywho is responsible, no matter that a mistake was made inthe past, in the future that person will be reassigned theway he should be. MS. McDOWELL: Well, the statute does providefor administrative review of assignment so that a coaloperator who was assigned a miner in error could challengethat before the commissioner, and if the commissionerfound that the assignment was erroneous, the miner couldbe assigned to a -- a more appropriate coal operator.In addition, the regulations promulgated by thecommissioner for the administrative review process allowedthe commissioner herself to reopen an assignment if shefound that it had been erroneous within a -year period.QUESTION: What happens to someone who wasn'tassigned before October st? They're -- they're not justleft out in the cold, are they? MS. McDOWELL: No. Congress did provide afallback position for all of those who weren't assigned byOctober st or -- or at any time because they had no th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC former employer or related person who remained inbusiness, and that is, that they will be treated as partof the unassigned beneficiary pool. The benefits forthose miners are paid from an appropriation from the AMLFund, a fund originally created to ameliorate the problemsof abandoned mines, and if that fund proves insufficient,the funds will come from a -- a premium imposed on all ofthe coal operators to whom beneficiaries who have beenassigned.QUESTION: Ms. McDowell, there -- there is asection, (f)()(B), that deals with annual adjustmentof unassigned premiums. And it says that if there's anassigned miner and the operator goes out of business inany given year, then that assigned miner becomes part ofthe pool. And it doesn't matter really whether theinitial assignment was before the October deadline ornot. They just go into the pool in time. And that seemsto work somewhat against your interpretation.MS. McDOWELL: I think the situation addressedin that provision is quite different, even assuming thatit unequivocally establishes that the commissionercouldn't reassign somebody after a company went intobankruptcy. But assignments at the outset of the process,the sorts of assignments that we're concerned with here,are quite different from an assignment after bankruptcy th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC that could occur , , or years down the road, andCongress may well have been interested only in achieving acorrect initial assignment at the outset and not withcontinuing to readjust the assignments --QUESTION: Well, it does show at least thatmuch, that Congress didn't want to continue perpetually toadjust these things for the --MS. McDOWELL: Yes, that's correct. But thefact that the -- that Congress directed that theapplicable percentage for calculating the assignedbeneficiary premium shall be adjusted in certaincircumstances doesn't suggest to us that Congress wouldnot have permitted it to be adjust in other -- adjusted inother circumstances as well that Congress may not haveexplicitly contemplated at the time that the Coal Act wasenacted. One of those was the fact that --QUESTION: Is it possible that that deadline wassome kind of political compromise, so to speak, at thetime it was passed and the operators thought, well, that'sit? You know, after that deadline, it's fixed. MS. McDOWELL: Well, there's -- there's noindication in the text or legislative history that thatwas contemplated. And indeed, since Congress waslegislating in light of this Court's opinions in PierceCounty and Montalvo-Murillo, the provision could not th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC readily be understood as providing coal operators withthat sort of assurance. In addition --QUESTION: Well, you -- you say Congress islegislating in light of our decision in Pierce County. You're -- you're just applying the general presumptionthat Congress does that? Certainly there's -- is thereany indication here that Congress was legislating in lightof Pierce County? MS. McDOWELL: Congress didn't explicitly sayso, no, but as, we have cited a number of statutes in ourbriefs that made clear that when Congress wants toterminate an agency's authority to make decisions at aparticular point, Congress knows how to say so explicitlyand it has done so in those situations. It has not doneso here. QUESTION: Well, this is -- this is quitedifferent than Pierce County, though, at least certainlyon its facts. There you had a provision that the --you're supposed to ferret out some sort ofmisappropriations and saying that the inspector general,whoever it was, was supposed to do it in months. That'ssimply a message to the agency to get going. And we -- Ithink we said quite properly that didn't mean that youcouldn't ferret out this sort of thing after the months. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC But this thing has -- has somewhat differentramifications, I think. MS. McDOWELL: Well, I think it's clear thatCongress imposed deadlines, not only this deadline, butother deadlines in the statute, because it wanted to getthe new funding mechanism established by the Coal Act intoplace. Congress wanted the assignments to be madepromptly so that the Combined Fund could then send billsfor premiums to assigned operators. But it wasn't essential to that scheme thatevery last assignment was made by October st, and there'sno indication that Congress adopted the deadline in orderto provide any sort of certainty to coal operators. Toparaphrase the Court's decision in James Daniel Good, itwould seem somewhat curious that a deadline that wasintended to expedite the collection of premiums by theCombined Fund could be construed to prevent the CombinedFund in some circumstances from collecting premiums atall. And that's the effect of --QUESTION: Is there any limiting principle toyour interpretation? I mean, can this go on forever andever? MS. McDOWELL: Oh, the statute doesn't itselfimpose a limit on the commissioner's authority. However,as a practical matter, the commissioner has not made th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC initial assignments for more than years now and has nointent to recommence them. Obviously, Congress can cutoff the authority to do this at -- at any particular timeby denying an appropriation for the process or by doing itexplicitly.QUESTION: Would you tell us what percentage ofthe assignments were made after the deadline, and how longafter the deadline was the most recent assignment?MS. McDOWELL: Yes. The -- to answer your lastquestion first, the last one was made in .Congress made a total of approximately --rather, the commissioner made a total of approximately, assignments before the deadline, in addition toanother ,, approximately, assignments that the coaloperators had agreed to. After the deadline, the commissioner made ,more assignments. A quarter of those were made in October or a handful in February . The rest were madeprimarily in and and a few more, about , in. And the process has been completed. QUESTION: When there is a reassignment ortaking somebody out of the unassigned pool and attributingthat person to an operator, does the operator who has nowgotten the assignment have to pay interest for the periodfrom October ' on, or is it just that you pay now the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC bill that we would have sent you if we had charged you in'?MS. McDOWELL: The latter. There's no interestcharged. So to the extent --QUESTION: So that the --MS. McDOWELL: -- the operator benefits byhaving the use of the money during the period before theobligation is imposed. QUESTION: What about the argument that theSocial Security Administration stood before Congress andsaid, we can make this date? Then the operators who mightbe saddled with additional responsibility could breatheeasily and say, well, we don't have to set up any reservefor the assignment of more operators to us.MS. McDOWELL: Well, in fact, Your Honor, thecommissioner didn't say we will make the deadline. Thecommissioner did express optimism in September of that the deadline could be complied with. QUESTION: I thought there were quotations inthe record that had an official from the Social SecurityAdministration telling Congress we are going to do it. Itwas more than, it's a hope. I -- I don't have that at myfingertips now. MS. McDOWELL: I think it could have been onlyan expression of hope in -- in September , and then th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC the operators would have received, in many cases, and --and these respondents certainly did -- assignments ofadditional beneficiaries during October , so thatshould have put them on notice to make inquiry as toprecisely when the assignment had been made. I think a particularly more telling and -- andearlier statement from a -- an acting commissioner came inFebruary when the acting commissioner was testifyingbefore a House appropriations subcommittee. He said atthat point that it did not appear that the assignmentscould be completed by the deadline. One Member of Congress asked, well, what is the-- the crucial date, then? When is it that beneficiarieswill lose benefits if the assignments aren't made? Andthe acting commissioner went on to explain that, well,because there was a -- a $ million transfer coming intothe Combined Fund on October st, from the UnitedMine Workers pension fund, there would be money inthe Combined Fund for some time to pay benefits, and thatthe assignments could be done on a rolling basis to bringmoney into the fund. So it was clearly understood at thatpoint that there was no jurisdictional cutoff of the timeto make assignments contemplated by the statute.QUESTION: Ms. McDowell, what do you do with theprovision of (a)()(D) which makes an assigned th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC operator's unassigned beneficiaries' premium equal to theoperator's applicable percentage, which is defined as itspercentage of total assigned beneficiaries, quote,"determined on the basis of assignments as of October ,"?MS. McDOWELL: The statute then goes on toprovide for adjustments in years after for twocircumstances: when a change has been made as a result ofthe administrative review process, and when a change hasbeen made as a result of coal operators going out ofbusiness. QUESTION: Right, but -- but --MS. McDOWELL: And the fact that Congress --QUESTION: -- but does not make a thirdexception; that is, a change is made as a result of the --the finding of additional assigned beneficiaries under the-- under the commissioner's ability to -- to find it afterOctober .MS. McDOWELL: That's correct, Your Honor, butthe fact that Congress said that these adjustments shallbe made doesn't suggest that Congress did not intend topermit other appropriate adjustments to be made as well.QUESTION: No, but what does -- what doessuggest that is the language, determined on the basis ofassignments as of October , . And then there's no th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC provision for -- elsewhere that would enable you to -- tomake the other adjustment.MS. McDOWELL: Well, Congress was obviouslycontemplating, at the point that it enacted the statute,that the deadline would be made, satisfied. So it's --it's therefore somewhat understandable that Congressdidn't discuss all the permutations of what would happenif -- if the deadline was, in fact, not satisfied.And an additional point is even if one assumedthat the unassigned beneficiary premium, the applicablepercentage used to calculate it had to remain fixed as ofOctober st, , that doesn't really address thecommissioner's assignment authority after that date, andit is not essential to the statute --QUESTION: Well, no, it isn't essential but itmakes --QUESTION: It has to because then you'd bepaying more than your share. You'd be paying based on theassumption that you only had X number of -- of permanentbeneficiaries, but then your -- you'd be paying thatpremium, but then you have additional beneficiaries thatyou must take care of on their own account because they'reassigned to you. So you -- so you are hurt if you can't-- if you can't change the formula.MS. McDOWELL: Well, I'm not sure that it would th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC significantly change the -- the percentage of the wholethat the operator would be required to pay for. But in any event, in practice the Combined Fundhas gone back and taken subsequent assignments, just likesubsequent reassignments, into account in calculating theapplicable percentage, and the statutory scheme has workedquite satisfactorily in that respect. QUESTION: Would you clarify one thing for me? I don't know whether the -- the fallback position tofinance the unassigned -- the benefits for the unassignedminers -- they -- there are two -- some money comes out ofthe first pension fund. Later it comes out of aGovernment fund. And then there's the third possibilitythat that money may run out and the miners will beassessed for the payment -- for the unassigned -- thecompanies will be assessed for the payments for theunassigned miners.Now, what is the Government's position withrespect to a company that, say, had nobody assigned priorto the October date, but after the October date, say, miners were assigned? Now, as I read the statute, thatwould mean the -- that company would have noresponsibility to contribute to the payments for theunassigned miners. Am I right about that? Or would youadjust it based on post-October assignments? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MS. McDOWELL: I'm not aware of any company inthat situation, but I think it would be adjusted for post-October assignments as well.QUESTION: Despite the language of the statutethat Justice Scalia referred to.MS. McDOWELL: Yes, Your Honor. We think it'sflexible enough to allow those additional adjustments tobe taken into account. QUESTION: When do you do the adjusting in the-- I gather that's what you're doing. When do youactually make the adjustments? MS. McDOWELL: That's a task that's left to theCombined Fund to do. It's not an adjustment that thecommissioner herself made. QUESTION: But is -- is the percentagerecalculated as of the beginning of -- of each kind offiscal year following the -- the initial October date?Or -- or in the middle of a company's -- in the middle ofa year running from October , are they suddenly sockedwith a -- or at least liable to be socked with anassignment for which they had no reason to plan on October?MS. McDOWELL: You know, I think thecommissioner typically made one round of assignments ayear during the time -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: Annually. MS. McDOWELL: -- when she was making additionalassignments. QUESTION: Annually. MS. McDOWELL: Sometimes two rounds, I believe. QUESTION: And is that made in advance ofOctober each year to commence on October or beeffective as of October each year? MS. McDOWELL: Yes.QUESTION: Okay. QUESTION: I still don't see your basis fordoing it. You say it's flexible enough, but you'reconfronted with language that says it will be determinedon the basis of assignments as of October , . Imean, there it is. It says it in cold, hard language. There is no -- no exception elsewhere to do what you saythere's flexibility to do. Where do you get theflexibility from? MS. McDOWELL: Well, Congress didn't forecloseadditional adjustments to be assigned beneficiary premiumin addition to those specified in the statute.QUESTION: What do you mean it didn't foreclose? Yes, it did. It said, determined on the basis ofassignments as of October , -- what -- what more doesit have to say? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MS. McDOWELL: Well, then if you will turn tothe next subsection of the statute, it provides foradjustments for plan years after . QUESTION: For other -- exactly. That -- thatmakes it even clearer that except for those expressedexceptions, everything else has to be done as of October.MS. McDOWELL: Well, in any event, Your Honor,that particular provision is a separate section of thestatute from one addressing the commissioner's assignmentauthority. It doesn't provide the sort of clear andunambiguous indication that Congress intended to preventthe commissioner after the statutory deadline fromcompleting the task that Congress thought was important. QUESTION: No, but if -- if you don't read thetwo provisions together, if you don't read the shallclause and -- and the calculation clause together, you --you get a system which is simply incoherent. You've got asystem in which assignments are being made, but in factthe -- the Combined Fund is being operated as -- as ifthey were not being made. And, you know, it seems to methat you -- you've got to go the whole hog. You -- you'vesimply got to say that the -- the October deadline hasgot to be read together with the shall clause, and if theshall clause can be varied, then the October deadline th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC can be varied, too, because otherwise you just get anincoherent system. Do you agree?MS. McDOWELL: Well, that is certainly how ithas been applied.QUESTION: That's what you're doing.MS. McDOWELL: It has been applied flexibly andadjustments in the applicable percentage have been maderetroactively.Thank you. I'll reserve.QUESTION: I have one question. I -- I takeit's possible if a company had received assignment of --of all of its employees, that it could argue that it waspaying too much if there wasn't the adjustment. Have anycompanies made that argument? MS. McDOWELL: Not that I'm aware of, YourHonor. QUESTION: Thank you, Ms. McDowell. Mr. Buscemi, we'll hear from you.ORAL ARGUMENT OF PETER BUSCEMION BEHALF OF PETITIONERS HOLLAND, ET AL.MR. BUSCEMI: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice, andmay it please the Court:The respondents in this case are seeking awindfall because the Social Security Administration didn'tcomplete its work on time. They should not get it. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC It is conceded in this case that thebeneficiaries at issue were supposed to be assigned toBellaire and Peabody. It's conceded that these respondents are notbeing asked to pay a penny more than Congress wanted themto pay. It's conceded that Congress wanted as manybeneficiaries as possible to be assigned to particularoperators. Section (a) itself directs SSA to assigneach beneficiary. Now --QUESTION: Counsel, would you explain to us thereal world consequences at the end of the day for therespective positions of the parties? Apparently theminers will be covered one way or another.MR. BUSCEMI: That is correct, Your Honor. Andrespondents make a great deal of that as if the onlypurpose of the statute was to ensure that thebeneficiaries would continue to receive their healthcoverage. That was surely a major percentage. QUESTION: Yes. MR. BUSCEMI: But the financing method of thebenefits was also a key component of the statute.QUESTION: Well, that's -- the next part ofJustice O'Connor's question is -- and I had this in mindalso -- is the fund will always have adequate funds to pay th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC for the unassigned miners, will they not? The plans.MR. BUSCEMI: Well, the Combined Fund will --QUESTION: The -- the plans in that sense aren'thurt because they're -- they're not going to run out ofmoney.MR. BUSCEMI: The Combined Fund will receivefunds in accordance with the provisions of the statute.The answer to Justice O'Connor's question is threefold. It is complicated. For the first plan years, beginning February, and ending October -- I'm sorry -- September ,, if these beneficiaries are not assigned, as theyshould be, to Bellaire and Peabody, all of the otherassigned operators will receive a greater assessment, andthey will -- because there will be an increased number ofunassigned beneficiaries during those first plan years.QUESTION: A backwards looking assessment --MR. BUSCEMI: Correct. QUESTION: -- for those early years. QUESTION: But they're not complaining, as Iunderstand it, or am I wrong about that? MR. BUSCEMI: Well, they -- they surely arecomplaining. The Apogee case, for example, in theEleventh Circuit was a case that arose precisely becauseof that sort of supplemental, after-the-fact assessment th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC designed to take into account the fact that there was agreater number of unassigned beneficiaries in the plan. And that, in particular, arose as a result of this Court'sdecision in the Eastern Enterprises case.QUESTION: But they're not in this case. MR. BUSCEMI: They're -- they're not intervenorsin this case, no, Your Honor. QUESTION: Why? I'm just -- as I understand it,which may show I'm wrong, the -- the -- all this is aboutis, since the -- this receptacle, the -- the -- what arewe calling it -- the fund -- is --MR. BUSCEMI: UMWA Combined Benefit Fund?QUESTION: Yes. That's financed by the coalcompanies, too. So -- so that -- aren't -- isn't themoney that we're just talking about coming from them and-- and -- the unassigned people go into a fund. Theunassigned people go into a -- what's the word? It'sescaped me. MR. BUSCEMI: Your Honor, both the assignedbeneficiaries and the unassigned beneficiaries arebeneficiaries of the Combined Benefit Fund. The CombinedBenefit Fund receives premiums for each beneficiary fromthe assigned operator, if the beneficiary is assigned. Ifthe beneficiary is not assigned, as I was starting to sayin response to Justice O'Connor's question, there is a th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC complicated system. For the first --QUESTION: And you've given us step one. Right?MR. BUSCEMI: Step one is the first planyears.QUESTION: All right. MR. BUSCEMI: During those plan years, theunassigned beneficiaries are paid for out of the transfersfrom the UMWA pension plan. Those were transfersthat could not have been made but for the statute becausepension benefits and the health benefits are different. And Congress intervened and said there will be $million moving into the Combined Fund from the pensionplan. That money is used for unassigned beneficiaries'premiums. It's used for death benefit premiums, and forthe first year and the first year only, it's used toreduced the assigned operators' assigned beneficiarypremiums. So every time the number of unassignedbeneficiaries goes up, a greater share of that $million must be used to pay for the unassignedbeneficiaries. Less is left for death benefits and todefray the first year assigned beneficiary premiums, andaccordingly, a supplemental assessment is made on allassigned operators when the number of unassignedbeneficiaries goes up. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC That's part one. Part two. Beginning on October , ,Congress says that there shall be annual transfers fromthe interest earned by the Abandoned Mine Land ReclamationFund established under the Surface Mining Control andReclamation Act. Now, obviously, you can't transfer interest thatyou don't have. The interest earned by the AML Fund hasbeen declining. Interest rates have been going down, andaccordingly, the interest rates that are earned by thefund goes down. The fund at one time earned $ million ayear in interest. It's now projected to earn only infiscal . So there's a limit to how much can betransferred from the AML Fund. The third component. If the AML Fund transferis not sufficient to pay for the beneficiaries, theunassigned beneficiaries, then there must be an unassignedbeneficiary premium assessed against all assignedoperators, thereby shifting the cost of thesebeneficiaries from these respondents to all assignedoperators.QUESTION: Which hasn't happened yet in fact.MR. BUSCEMI: It has not happened yet.QUESTION: And how much are we talking about?MR. BUSCEMI: Well, right now we're talking -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC if everyone nationwide affected by this case, if the rulewere to change, and you were looking purely prospectively,you have about , people. But if you go back to thebeginning --QUESTION: Yes. MR. BUSCEMI: -- you have about , people. QUESTION: Yes. MR. BUSCEMI: And as Mr. Tennielle'sdeclaration, which is in the joint appendix, shows, thereis approximately $ million that was already at stake asof the time of his declaration in , and that numberhas been growing ever since.QUESTION: What exactly is the interest of thetrustees that you represent? MR. BUSCEMI: Your Honor, the trustees want tosee this statute operate the way it's supposed to operate.The trustees --QUESTION: But that's a fairly -- what is theirfinancial or pecuniary interest? MR. BUSCEMI: The trustee -- it's -- it's not afinancial interest. The trustees believe that the policyof the statute was to have the greatest possible amountpaid for from the private sector by the employers whoemployed the beneficiaries, retired miners. And thetrustees have been, in each of these cases, arguing that th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC the system ought to work the way Congress intended. Now, on the applicable percentage, I do want tosay one thing in response to Justice Scalia's severalquestions on this, and that is, the "as of" language inthe statute is very important. Every time there is areassignment as a result of an administrative appeal, it'smade as of October , . Every time there's an initialassignment made after September , , it's made as ofOctober , . They all go back to the beginningbecause these beneficiaries all need health care --QUESTION: You can't read that language thatway. It -- it says applicable percentage is defined asthe percentage of total assigned beneficiaries determinedon the basis of assignments as of October , . You're-- you're telling me that means assignments made later,but that you say on their face, we're making theseretroactive to October , ? MR. BUSCEMI: It must be, Your Honor. It mustbe because if there is a reassignment --QUESTION: It must be because otherwise yourtheory doesn't work. MR. BUSCEMI: No. Otherwise the statute --QUESTION: And -- and the other side's theory ofthe case is -- is correct. MR. BUSCEMI: No, Your Honor, because when th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC there's a reassignment after an administrative appeal, forexample, the reassignment occurs in or . If anadministrative appeal is successful and there's areassignment, that reassignment is as of October , ,even though the reassignment isn't made until later. That's absolutely plain --QUESTION: So there's a -- there's a retroactiveassessment? MR. BUSCEMI: Absolutely, Your Honor. All ofthese assignments, whether they're reassignments afteradministrative appeals, whether they're initialassignments during this period when the commissioner wasfinishing the assignment process, they all go back to thebeginning. In fact, they go back to February , because that's the beginning of the first plan year.I might say there are many provisions in thisstatute that say do something by a date certain. Thetrustees had to be appointed by a date certain. The $million transfers from the ' pension plan had to be by adate certain. The merger of the ' benefit plan, the 'benefit plan into the Combined Fund had to be by a datecertain. Yet no one would argue that if any of thosedates was missed, then there was no authority at all. And --QUESTION: Wouldn't you have to give back money th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC if -- if your side does not prevail? Then these paymentshave been made -- the assignments that were made, payments have been made as of October , '. Andwouldn't the fund have to give those payments back? MR. BUSCEMI: That's precisely what Mr.Tennielle's declaration points out, Your Honor. As of thetime of his declaration, there had been approximately $million worth of payments by various assigned operatorswho had received assignments, initial assignments ofbeneficiaries that were made after September , . Those amounts would have to be refunded or credited. Indeed, the respondents in this case sought just suchrefunds or credits. If you look at Judge Kinneary'sopinion, for example, in the Bellaire case in theappendix, he grants a credit to Bellaire in the amount ofthe payments that they made on behalf of the beneficiariesassigned to them. QUESTION: Well, of course. They were assignedincorrect -- I mean, what's so extraordinary about that? It just means you've been collecting money from the wrongpeople. I mean --MR. BUSCEMI: I was just responding to --QUESTION: I -- I would hope you give it back. MR. BUSCEMI: And we did. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. Buscemi. Mr. Roberts, we'll hear from you. ORAL ARGUMENT OF JOHN G. ROBERTS, JR.ON BEHALF OF RESPONDENTS PEABODY COAL COMPANY, ET AL.MR. ROBERTS: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice, andmay it please the Court:The petitioners' position is that when Congresssaid shall before October st, , it meant may beforeor after October st, . That is so, according to thepetitioners because, as they read the statute, Congresscould not really have intended to limit the authority ofthe commissioner to make assignments under the act.But there is nothing implausible or even unusualabout reading the statute to mean what it says. Theconsequence of not assigning a particular miner by thestatutory deadline is that the miner is unassigned underthe statute. The statute tells us what to do withunassigned miners. There is an elaborate backupprovision, as the Solicitor General calls it, to deal withunassigned beneficiaries. First and foremost, they receive the samebenefits as assigned miners.QUESTION: Mr. Roberts, all I -- all that, Iguess, is conceded in the argument, but the -- the -- whenall is said and done, there seems to be an -- an inequity th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC as among the operators. And I can understand your -- I dounderstand, I accept your argument that at least to getthe plan going initially, that the objective of Congresswould have been, as it were, a good system rather than aperfect system. What I don't see is why Congress would want --would have wanted to make it impossible to improve on thatsystem later by eliminating the -- the inequity of anerroneous failure to assign. And it's -- it's that issuethat makes it difficult for me to read the -- the shalllanguage as being, as -- as they say, jurisdictional orproviding a cutoff. Can you address what the reasonCongress would have had for wanting to preserve thatinequity? MR. ROBERTS: Certainly. First of all, fromCongress's point of view, the overriding purpose is tocontinue benefits. That's taken care of. Second, the coal miners get the same benefitswhether they're assigned or unassigned.Now, but the argument is this undermines the payfor your own principle. But the pay for your ownprinciple itself is -- embodies rough justice. A companythat employs a miner for years pays for all hisbenefits. Another company may have employed him for years. That's the compromise that was agreed to and th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC that's fine. But it doesn't mean that this pay for yourown principle is some unqualified desideratum that you canassume Congress intended to pursue at all costs inperpetuity. We know that's not the case. They had adeadline and they imposed it. QUESTION: But, Mr. Roberts, didn't you omit oneof the other statutory purposes, which was, insofar aspossible, to assign responsibility for paying the benefitsto the company that had the best, the closest connectionwith that particular miner? MR. ROBERTS: Yes, and we know that was, forexample, not a purpose they wanted to pursue ueber alles. If a company goes bankrupt, those miners --QUESTION: But it was one of the major purposes,was it not? MR. ROBERTS: It was one of the purposes, yes,and it was one that Congress said, spend a year trying tomake these assignments. But then we've got to launch thisfund and --What is really going on here is that thecommissioner wants to do a different sort of job thanCongress delegated to her. This is the sort of project --and I think this is a critical distinction from thedeadlines in Pierce County and those sorts of cases. Theagency could have done a reasonably good job on this th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC project in months, a better job in a year, maybe anearly perfect job in years. Congress said, we want the-year version. Why do we want the -year version and notthe nearly perfect version? Because the miners are goingto get the same benefits either way. Coal companies orfunds established by coal companies are going to pay forthem either way. QUESTION: But they will pay in differentamounts. Different coal companies will be paying for someof the miners under your proposal rather than theGovernment's proposal. MR. ROBERTS: Yes, and the question is-­QUESTION: And the specific hypothetical thattroubles me -- let me put it right out on the table. Supposing a company had no assignments made to its priorminers until after October st. If I understand thesystem correctly, at the end of the line, if they have tofinance the payments for the unassigned miners out of a --a pool contributed to by the operators, that company willnot have to contribute to that pool. MR. ROBERTS: No. That's right. If it had noassignments. Now, Congress --QUESTION: And -- and the company which had afull assignment is going to be paying more than its pro th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC rata share. MR. ROBERTS: And Congress knew --QUESTION: And even though that there was -- yousay there's rough justice. This is making it even -- evenmore rough, and if the companies are not paying theproportion of the -- of the benefits that the statutoryscheme requires. They're paying more. MR. ROBERTS: And Congress knew there was someunfairness in requiring the companies to pay forunassigned beneficiaries, and it cushioned that unfairnessby saying we're going to draw from this AML Fund that coaloperators established earlier. That will -- it has todate ensured that there is no unassigned beneficiaries --QUESTION: But I take it that fund itself ismaintained based on the -- your share of fully assignedminers. More, the more you're assigned, the more you haveto pay to that fund. Or correct me if I'm wrong. MR. ROBERTS: No. That -- it's a preexistingfund that was established based, I believe, on per-tonroyalties. The point is everybody is contributing indifferent amounts to establish --QUESTION: No, but Mr. -- let me just interruptyou as to your answer to Justice Kennedy. It's true forthe first and second stages that it doesn't matter, but if th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC you have to go to the third stage where the unassignedminers are paid by the companies, then what he says isabsolutely right. MR. ROBERTS: If you have to get to the thirdstage where there's an unassigned beneficiaries premiumassessed, yes. It's done pro rata. And Peabody Coal, forexample, will have a very sizeable bill if that reaches itbecause they have over , assigned miners. This caseis about miners who were assigned after October st.But the point is not whether you could write afunding mechanism that is more equitable or fair. It's aquestion of whether that's the one that Congress wrote. Congress --QUESTION: What is the harm? That is to say, asyou agree -- I think we both agree there are many statuteswith deadlines in them. There are regulatory statutesset, health regulations by such and such a date set,consumer, trucking regulations. And the courts regularlyset that those dates, even though they use words likeshall, are not fixed because obviously Congress wanted theregulations written, even if late. Well, here they're saying this is roughly thesame thing. Obviously, Congress would have wanted thisassigned in the principle of pay for your own way, andnobody is hurt by doing that late. Nobody is really hurt. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Now, I want you to reply to that. What's thedown side of trying to interpret this like we'd interpretother regulatory statutes?MR. ROBERTS: Well -- well, it's not like theother regulatory statutes, first of all, because it's anextraordinary grant of the authority to impose retroactiveliability. The grant exists nowhere other than in thesame sentence that says shall. I think that's quitedifferent than saying, EPA, in years issue clean airregulations. That's -- that's a different case. AndPierce County is quite different. I think the Governmentprobably has inherent authority to recover misspent funds.The harm is the same harm that comes fromdisregarding any kind of deadline. As I said, this is thesort of project you can spend years on and always comeup with a more perfect assignment. Congress knew that. They knew that a significant amount of work was involved. They had to go and set up an interim funding system forFebruary to October to give the commissioner time. Thecommissioner came back and said, we've done it. We'vecompleted the project. QUESTION: Is there any way that you or yourclients or anyone have been hurt by the delay?MR. ROBERTS: Oh, of course. QUESTION: That is -- how? How were you hurt th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC specifically by the delay compared with if they had doneit all perfectly within minutes? Imagine they got thesame assignments on time. Now imagine they got them late,and how are you hurt by that? MR. ROBERTS: Oh, sure. Well, it's the sameconcern the Court noted last term in the Sigmon Coal case.The coal industry is characterized by a significant amountof transactions, mergers, acquisitions. You could belooking at acquiring a coal company, and of course, giventhe nature of the industry, the first question you ask iswhat is your liability, and they're going to say, well,it's this much. And then you -- then the -- the merger orthe acquisition takes place, and then you get anothernotice, here are, you know, new miners. And now, allof a sudden, it's this much. That was a significantconcern in Sigmon Coal, and it is significant in thisinstance as well. QUESTION: But, Mr. Roberts, on the other hand,you are, in fact your companies are paying less than theywould have paid had they been billed properly on timebecause you have had the use of the money in the interim,and Ms. McDowell said you're not being charged anyinterest because you're paying in -- or any adjustmentfor inflation because you get to pay in -whatever, 'dollars a bill that was due from October and you th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC don't get charged any interest on that. MR. ROBERTS: I don't think interest is asignificant factor just the way the interest rates havebeen over this time period. It certainly doesn't do muchto cushion the unfairness and inequity of getting a billretroactive as much as years. QUESTION: But my -- my point is simply had yougotten that bill, that -- timely, it would have been morecostly than getting the bill later because you have hadthe use of the money in the interim. MR. ROBERTS: The -- the interest is apparentlynot -- not charged. QUESTION: Unless you're -- unless you're acompany that had bought a company which, which had thatswitch pulled, in which case you're -- you're out ofpocket a good deal. Despite the fact that you're -- thatit's less money than -- than would have been chargedoriginally, it's coming out of your pocket when you boughta coal company that you did not believe had thatliability. MR. ROBERTS: And the -- the key factor thatsuch transactions play in this particular industry maywell explain why you don't see any companies on this sideof the case. I think it's always wise to be skeptical offairness arguments that are raised by proxy. There are no th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC companies complaining about, oh, we're going to end uppotentially paying a higher pro rata assessment thanotherwise because -- a number of reasons. Again, Congress cushioned the unfairness; theyrecognized it by making the AML Fund available. Second of all, this is a statute that issuffused with concepts of rough justice. It is notnecessarily a more perfect result to pursue yearsinstead of year to pay for your own principle. Thatdoes not necessarily lead to a more perfect result. Itmay mean that more companies who employed miners for years are paying over all of those benefits than companies-- when companies who employed the same miner for yearsdon't have to pay for any.But the critical --QUESTION: But there is -- I mean, Congress didprovide that if you think you were assigned people whobelonged to someone else, you can complain and thenthere's an adjustment long after the --MR. ROBERTS: Yes. We think that helps us, ofcourse, because it's an express provision for anassignment after October st. There are no other suchprovisions and because --QUESTION: But isn't -- isn't it true that withregard to the as -- with regard to as of language that th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Justice Scalia is emphasizing, isn't it true that thosepost-October changes are made as of the October date?MR. ROBERTS: The reassignment provisions, yes. Now, I'm not aware of a situation where it's reassigned tosomeone who never had any assignments --QUESTION: No, but at least the cancellation of-- of an assignment would be made as of the earlier dateeven though it took later -- took place later.MR. ROBERTS: That's right. But the other point is that although there's aprovision for --QUESTION: So -- so you -- you admit that thatlanguage doesn't really mean what it says.MR. ROBERTS: Oh, no. It means as of Octoberst. What I'm saying, in the case of a reassignment, theysay you can go back and -- and reassign it. Theapplicable percentage is based on the assignments aparticular company had as of October st.QUESTION: If you can do it with a reassignment,why can't you do it with an initial assignment?MR. ROBERTS: Because there's --QUESTION: Without doing violence to thelanguage? MR. ROBERTS: Because there's a specificexception that allows reassignments. There's no exception th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC for reassignments. And, I would point out, there is noprovision that allows changes in the case of an unassignedminer, and that is what has been going on here primarily. The commissioner has been revisiting the unassigned pool,and that's why this is quite different from a lot of theother deadline cases. This is -- we think thecommissioner did get the job done on time. She just wantsto do a different job. QUESTION: But Congress didn't think so, atleast the Congress that made an appropriation so that the-- the administration could get the job done. There was asupplemental appropriation, wasn't there? MR. ROBERTS: Yes. QUESTION: And part of it was supposed to bespent to enable the administration to finish the job.MR. ROBERTS: Yes, part of it. And the onething Congress did not do, with being told, you know,we're coming up with the deadline, they didn't change thedeadline. They kept that in place. Look at what the Solicitor --QUESTION: I thought that supplementalappropriation was made after October st, . MR. ROBERTS: No, before. In June I believe. It was asked for in February, made in June or early July.QUESTION: It's a little hard for me to accept th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC your argument that the equitable structure of the statuteis enhanced because the commissioner didn't get his workdone on time. MR. ROBERTS: Well, I think the commissioner didget the work done on time. It's just she just wants to doa more perfect job. And what I'm saying is it'sreasonable for Congress to determine we don't need themore perfect job. We need a good-enough job. And thisjob is good enough to get the fund launched. The one thing that's clear is that the way thepetitioners read the statute, if that had been proposedwhen the Coal Act was -- was enacted, it never would havegotten off the ground. The idea of giving thecommissioner significant discretion on an open-endedtimetable was certainly not in the cards. This is thelegislative equivalent of trench warfare, parties fightingover every inch. They had the black lung model which didgive the Secretary of Labor significant discretion inallocating responsibility for that consequence of -- ofthe -- of coal mining, and they wanted nothing to do withit. That's why --QUESTION: How -- how do we know this, Mr.Roberts? I -- I take it there's no helpful statement inthe legislative history saying, you know, by the way, thisis, you know, the linchpin of the deal, that with respect th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC to unassigned miners, there will be no monkeying aroundafter October st, '? MR. ROBERTS: I think we know it primarily --no. There's no statement like that. I think we know itfrom the structure of the statute which is carefullyreticulated. There is no delegation of discretion to thecommissioner. The compromises in the statute are spelledout. And when you talk about revisiting fairness,keep in mind you're looking at one particular provisionand you say, well, that looks unfair. It may be becauseanother provision that's not at issue balances that out.This is, as the Court noted in Sigmon, aninstance of legislative horse trading and log rolling, andthey're setting up a system and everybody has to pitch insome. The older pension funds pitched in some. Theoperators pitched in. Congress came forward with the AMLFund, and it moved forward. And it had to be in place byOctober st or the wheels would have fallen off. This isnot a deadline of the sort you've got days to issue adecision. Thank you, Your Honor. QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. Roberts.Mr. Sutton, we'll hear from you.ORAL ARGUMENT OF JEFFREY S. SUTTON th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ON BEHALF OF RESPONDENTS BELLAIRE CORPORATION, ET AL.MR. SUTTON: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice. Mayit please the Court:I'd like to start with a legal point, and I wantto start by looking at (a), which I'm sure you havehandy. I'm going to -- (a). I'm going to be readingfrom the red brief, Bellaire's brief, at A. And this isthe assignment provision we've been discussing. And thereare two things that are important about the language of(a). The first is, of course, that it says, shallbefore October st, , and I think you understand ourarguments there. But the second point --QUESTION: Which one are you reading from, Mr.Sutton? MR. SUTTON: The Bellaire --QUESTION: I know, but where on the page? MR. SUTTON: A, (a), section (a), (a).QUESTION: Oh, thank you. MR. SUTTON: And the -- the first point younotice is the shall before October st, language. And of course, you -- we've made our point there. But the second point is that it's the same shallterm that modifies other clearly mandatory jurisdictional th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC requirements under the act. The commissioner would agreethat she had no option of assigning these miners tononsignatories or to assigning them to people that wereout of business or to not following the statutoryprescribed order of priority. It's one term, shall. Asthe Court made it clear in another deadline case, Mohasco,we're going to assume the same word has the same meaningthroughout and --QUESTION: No, but -- I mean, that -- that's anassumption we can't make. I mean, I think there is aclear understanding that when someone is given aneither/or choice, shall may be -- mean one thing. Whenone is given a timing or a deadline choice, it may meansomething else. The statute is addressing differentissues and the same verb may well have different meaningsin -- in the different contexts.MR. SUTTON: Well, Your Honor, I -- I'm notaware of a case from this Court that has said one word inone sentence can have different meanings in the statute.QUESTION: It doesn't have different meanings. It has the same meaning. But in fact, it doesn't tell youwhat happens if you don't do it. All right. So theydidn't do it. Now what? If you don't do what it says, thenwhat? And there the statute is silent. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. SUTTON: And the point --QUESTION: And furthermore, the argument is thatthe shall merely enhances and makes more meaningful theother shalls. I mean, that's --MR. SUTTON: Well, there's just one shall. Andthe petitioners would agree that there's a clearconsequence if they had not assigned to a signatoryoperator. Why isn't there the same mandatory --QUESTION: Because it's a -- look. It's not alinguistic point. The point is, what happens if you don'tdo it, what you shall do? And there, the consequence inthe case -- you said you couldn't go back. You'reabsolutely right. And now our question is what's theconsequence here?MR. SUTTON: Well, the consequence here -- andthat's what makes this an easy case -- is the fact thatunlike Pierce County, the statute did provide aconsequence. It did provide a fail-safe safety net forall miners. QUESTION: Well, it provided -- it had a defaultprovision. In effect, it says, if there hasn't been anassignment to an operator, this is where the person goesfor purposes of this tripartite calculation.But the fact that there may be a defaultprovision in the case of -- of inaction, I don't think th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC necessarily is -- is equivalent to saying that there is aprovision for all time about what shall happen. It's justthat their immediate object was there had to be a groupingof these miners as of October or there would have beenno way to calculate the -- the sources of the -- thevarious assessments to pay for it. But that -- all thatdoes is say, okay, you've got a default in place --default position -- provision in place so that you knowwhat to do as of October . But it doesn't answer the --the question here. MR. SUTTON: The proof, Your Honor, that thiswas not that mysterious in terms of language is the factthat the commissioner had no problem doing what -- justwhat we say the statute required. As of October st,, she did just what Congress said she should do, whichis to divide the world of miners into two parts, assignedor unassigned.After October st, -- and keep in mind thiswas a statutory beginning, not a statutory --QUESTION: Well, she could have done that if shehad done absolutely nothing at all. If -- if she had donezero on -- on October st, the -- the default provisionwould have -- would have come into play and there wouldhave been a result of October st. And -- and I assumeyou would not take the position there that a -- a total th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC default by the Government of any action at all would --would be required to go unremedied for all time. MR. SUTTON: Well, no. Of course, the statutewouldn't have worked in that setting. QUESTION: No. MR. SUTTON: There's no doubt, you would haverequired a congressional fix. But the point --QUESTION: But there would have been a result asof October st.MR. SUTTON: But the point I'm making is therewere only , out of these , miners that they ranout of time on. As of October st, what did they do withthese miners? They put them in the unassigned pool. Thestatute has very specific requirements for transferring --QUESTION: Yes, but the unassigned pool wasn'tcreated just for that purpose. It was also created totake care of people who couldn't be hooked up with anyparticular company. MR. SUTTON: But to use Justice Souter's words,all default provisions cover everything. It would be anodd safety net that said, some in and some out.QUESTION: But you would agree that the defaultposition was not just to take care of the timing problem. MR. SUTTON: No, of course, not. But -- butthis gets to -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: The universe -- the universe ofassigned and unassigned was, I don't think, intended byCongress to include people that the commissioner didn'tget around to.MR. SUTTON: Well, there's one thing thatCongress clearly appreciated, and let's make sure we're --I -- I make this clear. Of the , people that havebeen reassigned, i.e., original assignments after thedate, , are folks that the commissioner originallydid, quote, "designate" in the unassigned pool. Theyreviewed the records. They looked at them. They said, wecan't find anyone to whom they belong. They're going tothe unassigned pool. Now, the proof that Congress contemplated thatpossibility is exactly the administrative reviewprovisions we've been talking about. What were theyabout? Fact error. And so they were aware of --QUESTION: Can you give me that number again? What is the percentage of the unassigned we're talkingabout that were initially determined properly to beunassigned for other criteria? MR. SUTTON: , were initially decided. Ifyou look at the Herrin affidavit at JA to , itspecifically says that , were initially designatedunassigned. And this proves Mr. Roberts' point that th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC what's going on here is not a missed deadline case. Theymet the deadline. What's going on is they decided toreinvent the task.QUESTION: So we're talking about ,, and --and what's the total universe that we're talking abouthere of unassigned? MR. SUTTON: Oh, well, they started with ,altogether. I'm making the point that , wereinitially designated unassigned. Out of that ,,, later they decided we can do a better job with that.And our point -- our point is -- I mean, there's acost-benefit analysis here. Congress could have said,Commissioner of Social Security, you can keep doing thisinto perpetuity until you get the job just right. Theydidn't say that. QUESTION: All right. So their -- theirreassignments cost your clients money. I understand that. What I don't quite understand is Mr. Roberts' point whichhe mentioned. If they're right in the case -- I mean, if-- if you're right in the case, then other companiesshould have had to pay more, isn't that right, to balancewhat you paid by way of less? MR. SUTTON: But, Your Honor, I mean --QUESTION: And why weren't they are on the otherside of the case? I'm genuinely puzzled about that. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. SUTTON: Well, that's an important question. But ultimately, it's robbing Peter to pay Peter. All ofthese funds, at the end of the day, came from coalcompanies. QUESTION: Yes, that's my understanding. So Iwould appreciate why they aren't -- I mean, Mr. Robertsbrought that up.MR. SUTTON: Because of the cushion.QUESTION: And I'm just curious why they're nothere.MR. SUTTON: The cushion, Your Honor. Thecushion. A critical part of the compromise that led tothe enactment of the act was a cushion of funds to providefor the benefits of unassigned beneficiaries. Thatcushion has been sufficient. So there's no -- there's --there's not been a concern yet for this pro rata --QUESTION: Yes, but it isn't assumed it willalways be sufficient, is it? It's been sufficient up tonow. But isn't it assumed that in time that they willhave to resort to a -- a company financed pool of money topay for the unassigned miners?MR. SUTTON: Your Honor, the Government all thetime relies on much less reliable proxies than this one. Keep in mind that to percent of these miners'records were reviewed. The risk that somehow this pro th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC rata unassigned beneficiary premium is going to awkwardlyhurt one company I think is fanciful. I can't imagine howthat could happen given the numbers --QUESTION: Well, do you not agree -- I'm notsure you're responding to my question. Do you not agreethat there is a significant possibility, even alikelihood, that you'll reach the third stage of financingfor the unassigned pool?MR. SUTTON: I don't know, and the reason Idon't know is that you -- these AML transfers have donethe job. Since they have done the job, and this is adeclining population. QUESTION: Where would that money go?QUESTION: Assume there is a significant risk. QUESTION: But they haven't eliminated theunassigned pool. MR. SUTTON: No, they haven't. Of course, not.QUESTION: And the question is who -- who shouldpay for those? MR. SUTTON: And the rough justice calculationthat the Congress made is we're going to do it on a prorata basis. If I could just step back for one second, Ithink this, I hope, puts the decision in context. Through -- from forward, they paid forthese benefits in two ways. One was pay for your own. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC The employer paid for his or her employee. And the secondone was pay as a group. They've been doing that through-- since . That's what the AML tax does. That's onall coal companies. QUESTION: Suppose the Secretary had gottenaround to only half instead of what it was.MR. SUTTON: Right. QUESTION: You're saying she couldn't -- she --she should not have tried to make it perfect. It was goodenough for Government work. But suppose it was only --she -- she was much slower and she only did, say, one-third. Then what? MR. SUTTON: There's -- there's -- I'm sorry.There's clearly some point at which the wheelsof the statute would fall off, but I think from theCourt's perspective of construing what the statute means,it's appropriate to assume the commissioner is going toact in good faith. She did act in good faith. She didget --QUESTION: When you say it would fall off, doyou mean that in that event, if she had been slower thanshe was, then she would have been permitted to makeassignments after the deadline? MR. SUTTON: No, Your Honor, I don't mean to besaying that. The point I'm making is that -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: Well, what would have happened? Let's say she did only one-third of the job and you hadthis large pool of unassigned people. MR. SUTTON: Well, the bigger problem would havebeen the assigned miners and they wouldn't have had enoughmoney to pay for them. When I say the wheels fall off thestatute, if they didn't get this job done by October st,they've got a very serious problem on their hands becausethe statutory beginning that starts on that date is theybegan sending out these premium requirements. The firstones went out on October nd, . And if they hadn'tdone a sufficient number, you wouldn't have enough moneyto pay for their benefits. You'd be back --QUESTION: I thought the first years they gotthe money from the pension fund. MR. SUTTON: Those were used primarily forunassigned. They were used some to help with assigned,but most were used to pay for unassigned benefits. Sothat's the point I'm making there. I'd like to make a point about Pierce Countythat I think is helpful in thinking about deadline casesin general. Here's why we're not saying that when astatute says you must complete this FOIA request in days, our -- our case would control it. In Pierce County,as in that situation, these governmental agencies have th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC preexisting general grants of authority to do these acts;i.e., go get misspent Federal funds. There are generalstatutes. There was one in Pierce County. If you look atpage of Pierce County, the plaintiff conceded therewas otherwise jurisdiction to get this money. Here -- and so what Pierce County means is we'renot going to say there's a repeal by implication of thatgeneral grant of authority merely because we now haveanother statute that says do it quickly, get it done. That's not this case. (a) is the only provision either petitionerhas pointed to that gives you this grant of authority. Sothe grant comes with a limit. QUESTION: May I just interrupt with -- with onemore question, if I may? In response to the as ofargument that Justice Scalia identified, Mr. Buscemi gavea -- a list of a whole bunch of things that are as ofOctober st. What would be your response to his -- hislist of as of things that really happened later than thatOctober date?MR. SUTTON: There are express exceptions to theOctober st deadline, and under this Court's decision inSigmon, you follow the Russello rule. They knew about thepossibility --QUESTION: It was an express exception like on th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC the appointment date of the trustees and so forth? MR. SUTTON: Oh, I'm sorry. The other shalls. I'm sorry. The other shall -- I'm sorry. Thank you. The other shalls throughout this statute --you've got two different issues there. One of them isthat they apply -- there's no contingency plan if youmiss. Here we've got a contingency plan. That's oneinference.The second is they all regulate privateentities. This goes back to the point I just made aboutPierce County. If a private entity is told do somethingby this date, they don't do it, a court clearly hasauthority to say, we said do it by this date, do it. Theyhad -- they had -- you don't have a authority problem witha private entity. They can do what they want.With the Government, however, and particularlywhen it comes to these extraordinary retroactiveassignments of liability, the commissioner is not bornwith that authority. It's not inappropriate to ask theGovernment to turn square corners in that kind of asetting as opposed to a setting where they're merelyexercising a general power to get misspent Federal funds,fulfill a FOIA request. There --QUESTION: Mr. Sutton, I -- I thought that ormaybe I just hoped that Justice Stevens was -- was asking th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC about why it is that the -- the crucial languagedetermined on the basis of assignments as of October , is in fact not so crucial, that -- that as Mr.Buscemi said, there are other instances in which somethingwas not determined before October , , butnonetheless, it is deemed to have been determined beforeOctober , .MR. SUTTON: By the statute. It says that ifthey -- if a company goes out of a -- goes intobankruptcy, we're going to alter the applicable percentageas of October st, because they went into bankruptcy.If there's a reassignment, it goes back to October st.QUESTION: Well, does the statute say it goesback to October st? Does the statute say thereassignment shall be deemed to have been made as ofOctober ? MR. SUTTON: Let's go back to it right here. You've got -- in the provision you're talking about,(f), the applicable percentage, it has the generalrule. QUESTION: Where is that? What page? MR. SUTTON: A of the appendix. QUESTION: Okay. MR. SUTTON: The general rule is stated in(f) and then you have the adjustments to the general th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC rule. QUESTION: Right. MR. SUTTON: And then it says, look at number :by making the following changes to the assignments as ofOctober st, . They -- they stuck with it. I mean,they understood what was going on, and that's -- that'swhat's so inappropriate here. QUESTION: Okay.MR. SUTTON: I mean, Justice Ginsburg, you madethe point that there's no interest running on this, butkeep in mind we don't get interest when they make mistakeson our assignments. That's a wash. Right? I mean, ifthey mistakenly assign someone to us, we don't getinterest there. But -- thank you, Your Honor. QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. Sutton.Ms. McDowell, you have minute remaining.REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF BARBARA B. McDOWELLON BEHALF OF PETITIONER BARNHARTMS. McDOWELL: Justice Breyer asked why thereweren't coal companies on our side of the courtroom. It'sbecause we, that is, the Federal Government, has beenpaying through the AML Fund for the benefits for the lastfew years. It appears that in the next few years thatinterest is going to run out, and at that point, therewill be coal operators who will be bearing a larger burden th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC through the unassigned beneficiaries' premium.QUESTION: What would the interest be used forif it weren't being used to make up the --MS. McDOWELL: It would be used for correctingthe severe health and safety problems caused by abandonedmines from the period before .The suggestion was made that coal operators werebeing denied certainty in making transactions. If thathad actually been a concern, there is a remedy provided bythe Administrative Procedure Act, section , an actionfor administrative action unreasonably delayed. A coaloperator conceivably could have brought an action underthat statute. QUESTION: But they said that -- they answeredthat by saying, how did we know there was going to be? Wedidn't know there was going to be anything reassigned tous.MS. McDOWELL: They received initial assignmentsat -- for the first time in October . That was at atime when no reassignments were being made through theadministrative review process. It therefore should haveoccurred to them that these were post-October st, assignments. In terms of there having been a politicalcompromise that the October st, date would have th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC jurisdictional effect, in light of Pierce County andMontalvo-Murillo, no such compromise could be assumed.CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: Thank you, Ms.McDowell.The case is submitted. (Whereupon, at : p.m., the case in theabove-entitled matter was submitted.) th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC 