 IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XNEVADA DEPARTMENT OF HUMAN RESOURCES, ET AL. Petitioners :::v. : No. -WILLIAM HIBBS, ET AL. :- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XWashington, D.C.Wednesday, January , The above-entitled matter came on for oralargument before the Supreme Court of the United States at: a.m.APPEARANCES:PAUL G. TAGGART, ESQ., Deputy Attorney General, Carson City, Nevada; on behalf of the Petitioners.CORNELIA T. L. PILLARD, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalfof the Respondent Hibbs.VIET D. DINH, ESQ., Assistant Attorney General, Office ofLegal Policy, Department of Justice, Washington,D.C.; on behalf of Respondent United States. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC C O N T E N T SORAL ARGUMENT OF PAUL G. TAGGART, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioners ORAL ARGUMENT OFCORNELIA T. L. PILLARD, ESQ.On behalf of the Respondent Hibbs ORAL ARGUMENT OFVIET D. DINH, ESQ.PAGEOn behalf of the Respondent United States REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OFPAUL G. TAGGART, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioners th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC P R O C E E D I N G S(: a.m.)CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: We'll hear argumentnext in Number -, the Nevada Department of HumanResources versus William Hibbs.Mr. Taggart.ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAUL G. TAGGARTON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERSMR. TAGGART: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court:There are three reasons Congress did not validlyabrogate State immunity when it adopted the Family MedicalLeave Act's family leave provision. First, the FMLA iseveryday economic legislation, a national labor standard,not antidiscrimination legislation, second, Congress was not responding to a discernible pattern ofunconstitutional behavior, and third, even if such apattern were discernible, the -week family leave mandateenforced by abrogating State immunity is not aproportional and congruent response.The Family Medical Leave Act is no differentthan the minimum wage and other national labor standards. It is, in its operation and effect, it is simply CommerceClause legislation.QUESTION: Well, but now in the statute, the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC findings, or the beginning, they refer to the Equal -- theEqual Protection Clause. They say it's consistent withthe Equal Protection Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment,don't they?MR. TAGGART: Yes, they do, but they do not --Congress did not invoke Section of the FourteenthAmendment, as it did in the ADA and the ADEA statutes. Ittold us exactly why, in the House and Senate reports, itwas mentioning the Fourteenth Amendment in the text of thestatute.QUESTION: Well, as applied to privateemployers, I suppose Congress had to rely on CommerceClause powers, but as applied to States, there is specificreference in the statute, of course, to section -- toequal protection.MR. TAGGART: Yes, there is specific referenceto equal protection --QUESTION: Yes, right.MR. TAGGART: -- but Congress told us why theymentioned equal protection in the House and the Senatereport, where Congress stated that if --QUESTION: Why do you need the House and Senatereport? I mean, the very text of the statute doesn't say,in order to assure equal protection of the laws in theStates. That's not what it says. It says that what we're th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC doing, what we're requiring, the leave that we'rerequiring, we are requiring in a manner that, consistentwith the Equal Protection Clause, minimizes theprotection, the potential for employment discrimination.I read that as saying what we're doing here isbeing done with an eye to being sure that it's inconformance with the Equal Protection Clause. That'squite different from saying that we're doing it in orderto enforce the Equal Protection Clause, which is beingviolated by the States.MR. TAGGART: We agree with that position,Justice Scalia.QUESTION: But Mr. Taggart, we --QUESTION: But the statement in the text goes tothe manner, goes to the manner, not to the purpose at all. QUESTION: The first rule of statutoryconstruction is to read on, and if you read on with me --(Laughter.)QUESTION: -- you will find it said, to promotethe role of equal employment opportunity for women and menpursuant to such clause, to promote the goal of equalopportunity for women and men.Throughout your opening brief, you neverreferred to that statute. You told us there was only the(), the one that Justice Scalia referred to, and it th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC wasn't until your reply brief that you even acknowledgedthat Congress has said, we're doing this to promote thegoal of equal opportunity for men and women. Why didn'tyou mention () in your opening brief?MR. TAGGART: Well, why we didn't mention (),I -- I apologize if we did not -- if we did not mentionit, but the -- the Senate report and the House reportdescribe exactly why Congress was talking about equalprotection.QUESTION: Well, one would look to the statutebefore one looks to the House or the Senate report.MR. TAGGART: Yes, that is correct, but theoperation of the statute clearly shows that it is justeveryday Commerce Clause legislation. Congress was deeplyconcerned that the Family Medical Leave Act itself would be challenged on equal protection grounds, and that's whyit said it was promoting the goal of equal employmentopportunity. Everything else about the statute, the wayit operates, the economic benefit that it provides, thefact that it doesn't prohibit discrimination at all, showthat this is nothing different from the minimum wage, andthat -- that is what -- that is what this -- this wasadopted in the tradition of.QUESTION: Mr. Taggart, I -- I thought thereason you didn't refer to the reference to equal th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC opportunity for men and women is that that is not areference to the Equal Protection Clause.QUESTION: Pursuant to such clause --QUESTION: People -- people -- people --individuals could fail to provide equal -- equalopportunity for men and women without violating the EqualProtection Clause.MR. TAGGART: That's true, but the --QUESTION: The -- the statute says, pursuant tothe Equal Protection Clause.MR. TAGGART: Well, it does say that, but in ourview, it is more important to look at the operation andthe text of the amendment, and how -- how the -- or of theact, and how the act works.QUESTION: Why? If you're looking at the text, then just a few lines above, in the text, where it talksabout findings, it says that, due to the nature of theroles of men and women, primary responsibility for familycare-taking often falls on women, and then it saysemployment standards that apply to just one gender haveserious potential for encouraging employers todiscriminate against people of that gender. So what Itake that to mean is that, without this, State employersas well as others tend to say to the woman, You go takecare of your sick mother, and because employers know that, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC they won't hire women. That's what it says in () and(), and I would have thought that sounded like equalprotection of the laws, as if this statute is designed tohelp remove one of the major reasons why employersdiscriminate against women. That's what () and () says,and then the -- lines down it says, pursuant to theFourteenth Amendment.MR. TAGGART: Well, Justice Breyer, thestatement here, in our view, indicates why Congressadopted a gender-neutral statute. If it adopted a gender-specific statute, the statute itself would have beensubject to challenge under the Equal Protection Clause.Our -- our concern here is that any everydayeconomic legislation that may have a disparate benefit toone suspect classification or another will all of a sudden be -- have the power to abrogate Eleventh Amendmentimmunity, and then State immunity will be subject toabrogation at -- at any expense where Congress deems thatCommerce Clause legislation is appropriate. Congressshould not be allowed to do indirectly what it'sprohibited from doing directly.QUESTION: Mr. Taggart, would you comment onthis argument, which I think is really an elaboration onthe findings in the purpose statement that Justice Breyerwas referring to. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC I think you can distill those statements down tosomething like this. We know for a fact historicallythat, whenever burdens of family responsibility areallocated, they are allocated to the woman, not to theman. If we do not have an employment standard thatexpressly says you have got to treat them exactly alike,the women will always get the short end, and that will bereflected in hiring decisions, among others.Secondly, in order to make this determination apractical one, we can't simply leave it that whatever youdo for men you should do for women, or vice versa. We'vegot to put some kind of a threshold there that will meansomething, and so we've come up with a particular period,a particular number of weeks. That's the only way to makethis work. I think that is the argument that is based, in effect, on these two sections. That doesn't sound to melike simply an end run, a phony Commerce Clause argument. Would you comment on that argument?MR. TAGGART: Well, even if that were true, evenif that effect occurred from the statute, the failure, theutter failure of the statute to satisfy this Court's Cityof Boerne test shows that it is purely economiclegislation. There were absolutely no findings byCongress regarding State conduct, or whether State conductwas unconstitutional, and it's difficult to discern from th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC the record before this Court or --QUESTION: Well, given the fact that we haveaccepted in prior cases the pervasiveness of thephenomenon that seems to be quite clearly reflected in thefindings and purpose, is that necessary here to say, well,yeah, it -- we've already said, the Supreme Court hasalready accepted its pervasiveness, but we've got to go astep further and say, well, yeah, that pervasiveness evengoes to States. Isn't there a point at which the pointhas been made?MR. TAGGART: Well, first of all, if that weretrue, then any law that Congress passes that has anyarguable fact on discrimination based on gender would besufficient for satisfying an abrogation of State immunity. In --QUESTION: Well, we can't -- what about theFitzpatrick v. Bitzer decision, where the Courtunanimously found Title VII was a valid abrogation of theEleventh Amendment immunity, and there was no inquiry intothe history of gender discrimination, it was justaccepted? Do you think that that case would stand upunder your analysis?MR. TAGGART: Yes, it would. There -- or wewould take the position that it would. There is --QUESTION: Because this is rather similar. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. TAGGART: Well, there is no requirement, andwe are not urging the Court to adopt a requirement thatCongress make findings. Congress simply helps the Courtwhen it makes findings about what it is -- whether thereis unconstitutional State behavior that would justify a-week family leave benefit that's abrogated by Statesovereign immunity. But Title VII is closely hewed tothis Court's section jurisprudence, and there's everyreason to believe that Title VII would stand up to theCity of Boerne test. So the difference with this statuteis that there is absolutely --QUESTION: Mr. Taggart, I thought that part ofyour argument was, if the discrimination doesn't existanymore in the State, even if it did at one time, then theprovision would have to sunset, and as far as Title VII is concerned, many States, the vast majority of States havetheir own Title VII laws, so at this point in time Iguess, under your reasoning, Fitzpatrick and Bitzer wouldhave to go.MR. TAGGART: Well, we are not arguing thatposition and, in fact, in our view Title VII is so closelyhewed to this Court's section () jurisprudence that it --it -- there's every reason to believe that it wouldsatisfy this Court's test.In -- in -- in this case, though, the question th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC is, in was there a pattern and practice of Statebehavior that would justify a -week mandatory familyleave benefit for all State employees that's -- that'senforced through abrogating State immunity, and thestandard --QUESTION: What was the -- in the title of TitleVII what was the pattern and practice that justified thatresult, because when the original Title VII was passedthis Court had never declared any law that differentiatedon the basis of gender unconstitutional, and when it wasextended to public employees -- was it in '? -- thisCourt had just begun to address the issue.MR. TAGGART: Yes, that --QUESTION: And yet the Court said Congress coulddo that in ' with no special record of any kind. Therecord, to the extent it existed, was made for race, notsex.MR. TAGGART: Well, we're not challenging TitleVII in this case. We're challenging that in , whenthe --QUESTION: But she's asking you to distinguishTitle VII from this. We know you're not challenging it.MR. TAGGART: Well, in our view --QUESTION: What about the fact that Title VIIgoes to discrimination on the basis of sex in general, and th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC there was no doubt that States have engaged in that andwere engaging in it at the time. You could have said itwas -- it was general knowledge. But the statute we'reconstruing here doesn't go to sex discrimination ingeneral, it goes to a very particular type of sexdiscrimination, and that is in the granting of leave, andon that, at least I can't say as a matter of generalknowledge that the States were in violation of provisionsof leave. I've no idea what the state -- what the statewas. Certainly you -- you need evidence to show that theywere violating that particular aspect of -- of -- of equalprotection.MR. TAGGART: Well, in order to show a patternand practice in it's this Court's section ()jurisprudence on violations of the Equal Protection Clause that governs, and Washington v. Davis, incorporated intothe gender cases through State Administrators v. Feeney,is a test which requires purposeful and invidiousdiscrimination. There's no showing that there was apattern and practice of State managers in of using agender stereotype when they granted leave.QUESTION: Whoa, whoa, whoa, wait, because ifyou accept, I take it, you accept the proposition thatCongress has sufficiently shown, as far as anyone need do,that State employers discriminated in their hiring against th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC women, the gener -- you accept that, is that right? That's your -- your -- your -- your, for -- because ifthat's not so, I guess goodbye to Title VII, a whole bunchof things, but is -- do you accept that?MR. TAGGART: Well, Title VII, and the circuitshave said this already, is that Title VII is so closelyhewed to this Court's section () --QUESTION: No, I'm not asking you to distinguishTitle VII. I'm asking you if, for purposes of this case,you accept the proposition that it is adequately shownthat State employers, like a lot of other employers, diddiscriminate against women in hiring people, in general.MR. TAGGART: If --QUESTION: I'd like a yes answer or a no answer,if I could.MR. TAGGART: Well, a qualified yes if you'retalking about , when --QUESTION: Okay, so at the time of this statute?MR. TAGGART: Not at the time of this statute.QUESTION: Oh, okay. You do not accept theproposition that it is adequately shown that Stateemployers discriminated against women when they passedthis law?MR. TAGGART: No, and even if there was a --QUESTION: Okay. No, then, I don't see the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC distinction with Title VII. It's goodbye if I accept thatargument, I think. It's just that it was earlier?MR. TAGGART: No, it's that title -- it'sunclear whether Title VII even prohibits things that thisCourt's section () jurisprudence wouldn't also prohibit.Title VII basically codifies what this Courtsaid in Washington v. Davis. It allows a give-and-take inthe courtroom of the evidence to -- to flesh out thetotality of facts that surround an employment activity,and at the end of the day in the Title VII lawsuit aninference can be made of whether purposeful discriminationactually occurred. It allows a defense not based uponheightened scrutiny or strict scrutiny. It allows just asimple defense by the employer.Unlike the Family Medical Leave Act, which just takes away any defense at all for States to defend thepolicies that they have, that it doesn't even elevateState policies to a heightened scrutiny standard, but in State policies were gender neutral, and under thisCourt's section () jurisprudence those policies should besubject to a rational basis review. But instead, the FMLAjust makes all of those policies unlawful. Any policythat doesn't have weeks of leave is simply unlawful. It doesn't give the State the ability to come in and provethat that policy was -- was applied -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: Suppose you have two statutes, one isa congressional statute that says, all States must haveemployment and pay policies that do not differentiate onthe basis of gender, and the second is the FMLA. It seemsto me that the FMLA is much more limited. It's just weeks, the damages are capped, it's simple to operate --MR. TAGGART: But --QUESTION: I would think that that is much moreproportional and congruent than the other statute that Idescribed.MR. TAGGART: Well, the -- this statute, inour -- our position is is not proportionally concurrent,because first, there's no pattern of State behavior thatwould justify a -week leave benefit. But to completelymake unlawful any act, any State policy that's less than weeks would require a substantial showing that Stateswere engaged in discrimination in the employment, inemployment practices.QUESTION: Why? Why? Because if you imagined,and you won't concede this, but I think, take it as ahypothetical, then, if you imagined that State employershad been shown to discriminate against women in hiring,wouldn't Congress have quite a lot of leeway in choosingthe remedy for that discrimination, and wouldn't thisstatute be part of the remedy? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. TAGGART: Absolutely. If yourhypothetical --QUESTION: So in other words, if it'sabsolutely, then the answer as far as you see it in thiscase is whether there has been an adequate showing that atthe time of this statute State employers discriminatedagainst women in hiring, and if the answer to thatquestion in your view is, there was an adequate showing,this is an appropriate remedy, but if the answer in yourview is, it wasn't an adequate showing, then, of course,you would win. That's how you're basically seeing thecase.MR. TAGGART: Well, I don't want to agree withyou percent, but -- but the --(Laughter.)QUESTION: I would think your-- your brief --your brief agreed with him zero percent.MR. TAGGART: Well --(Laughter.)QUESTION: Your -- your --MR. TAGGART: We didn't --QUESTION: Under your brief, the answer is quiteclearly no, you don't think it's proportionate even ifthere had been a violation shown. Isn't that what yourbrief said? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. TAGGART: Well, the hypothetical was, ifthere was enough of a showing, and I think that's thequestion. We argue there was no showing, which wouldjustify no remedy, but even if there was a showing, theremedy has to be proportional, and this -week leavebenefit just goes far out of proportion of any discerniblepattern of conduct by States which would justify it.QUESTION: Mr. Taggart, there have been scoresof Title VII cases where there's a nice, neutral standard,and then there's a decision maker, and the decision makeris exercising discretion under these general standards. And time after the time, the decision maker is duplicatinghimself, whether race, sex, and the people who don't looklike the decision maker say, gee, we suspectdiscrimination. There have been countless Title VII suits thathave prevailed on that, that the standards are nice andneutral, but the discretion whether to hire is made bysomeone who is coming up with results that exclude thesepeople.Now, do you think that State employers, that thepeople who do hiring and promotions for States are sononbiased, so unprejudiced that that doesn't affect thedecision makers on the State level, as opposed to themunicipal level, and in private employment? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. TAGGART: Our position is that thepresumption has to be that States act in a constitutionalmanner, and I'm not going to stand here before the Courtand say that States are perfect, but there's certainly nopattern which would justify a -week mandatory familyleave benefit enforced through the abrogation of Stateimmunity. This -- the FMLA is simply not based uponany -- any pattern of State conduct.The Congress knew in that States hadlaws just like the Family Medical Leave Act. Congresswasn't thinking about whether States were violating lawand whether States needed to be corrected. Congress wastrying to supplement what States were already doing withthe leave benefit.QUESTION: In Title VII, too, the lead was taken by the States. Several States had human rights laws longbefore there was any Federal law. At least as to thoseStates Title VII should not have been valid legislation,should it?MR. TAGGART: Well --QUESTION: Because there was no sign that theywere not at least as good as the Federal Government.MR. TAGGART: Well, Title VII is, in our view, a-- a -- clearly, a law that's clearly antidiscriminatory. It doesn't -- it isn't -- wasn't adopted for Commerce th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Clause purposes, and in our view in this -- the FamilyMedical Leave Act is just a round peg being forced into asquare hole. It's not -- wasn't adopted with theoperation -- with the idea of acting likeantidiscrimination legislation. It, in fact, wouldcompletely allow for discrimination. It would -- and thatwouldn't be prohibited by the law at all.QUESTION: Okay, if they had passed this statutewithout the weeks in it, and the statute had simplysaid, on family leave decisions, the decisions have got tobe the same, the standard for making them has got to bethe same, whether the employer, employee is a man or awoman, would that be constitutional?MR. TAGGART: Well, that --QUESTION: Under section ()? MR. TAGGART: Well, certainly that would soundmore like an antidiscrimination law that would requireleave, if it's granted --QUESTION: Okay.MR. TAGGART: -- to be granted on a genderneutral basis --QUESTION: Now, the difference between that caseand this -- I'm sorry. I didn't mean to interrupt you.MR. TAGGART: I'm sorry, Your Honor.QUESTION: I was trying to get in another th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC question before Justice Scalia did.(Laughter.)QUESTION: The difference between the case Ijust put to you and the case that we've got here is weeks, and I suggested that one reason for the weeks isa decision on the part of Congress that if we don't putsome period of time, some threshold period of time, ournondiscrimination standard isn't going to be worthanything.For example, just outside this case, the Statescould say, okay, we're going to give a -week maternityleave, men or women. Obviously, that isn't going toaccomplish anything. So Congress says, we've got to havesome kind of a threshold in order to make this requirementof neutrality really work. Why is that not a reasonable way to get to the point which I think we both agree wouldbe a perfectly lawful exercise of power under section ()?MR. TAGGART: Well, first on the latter part, aprohibition or a requirement for gender-neutral leavewould -- for -- if leave is allowed, it must be allowed ona gender-neutral basis, I would still argue that thatwould be, that would require some predicate of a patternof unconstitutional behavior, but --QUESTION: Okay. We'll take that as a given. You don't concede that. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. TAGGART: Okay, but on the weeks point,this Court would have to assume, without any indicationfrom Congress, that that's why it used weeks, becausethat is not why it used weeks. weeks --QUESTION: How many States are covered by theact?MR. TAGGART: Well, at the time the act wasadopted --QUESTION: Yes.MR. TAGGART: -- States had family leavelaws.QUESTION: How many are covered by the act? Tohow many States does the act --MR. TAGGART: Every State is covered by the act.QUESTION: of them. How many private employers are covered by the act?MR. TAGGART: Every private employer.QUESTION: Yeah, like how many do you think thatis, hundreds of thousands?MR. TAGGART: Yes. Yes, Your Honor.QUESTION: And the weeks was adopted with the States in mind, is the argument that's beingpropounded. It's clear that the weeks was designed forthe States, never mind the hundreds of thousands ofprivate employers. Does that seem plausible? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. TAGGART: No, and it -- first it's --QUESTION: Doesn't it seem plausible, however,that the period of time was designed in view of thepervasive history of discrimination in and out ofGovernment, and that it is just as applicable when it isapplied to the Government, just as reasonable orunreasonable, however you come out, as it is when it'sapplied to private industry? Isn't that a fair argument?MR. TAGGART: No, because it's not so simple asto draw the conclusions about the society in generaldirectly to States and impute States with unconstitutionalbehavior without presuming first that States act in aconstitutional way.QUESTION: No, I recognize that you're notconceding the -- the -- the point that a predicate for applying it to the States, even a -- a -- a non--weeksantidiscrimination has been shown, but if we assume thatpoint is past, then is the argument, is theappropriateness of the means somehow categoricallydifferent for States from the appropriate --appropriateness of the means with respect to privateemployment?MR. TAGGART: Well, it's our view that the twoquestions can't be split, that -- that the State conductis so critical that -- that it -- the answer cannot be th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC derived from saying that if -- if there's this conduct ingeneral, then weeks fits both State and non-Stateactors. The -- the -week benefit was not designed atall by Congress to target unconstitutional conduct. Itwas designed to give children weeks of childdevelopment time with their parents when they're born.QUESTION: Insofar as the statute applied toprivate employers, could it possibly have been directed atunconstitutional conduct?MR. TAGGART: It may be possible, but -- butany --QUESTION: I presume --QUESTION: But the real question is whether it'sdirected at discriminatory.QUESTION: At discriminatory conduct. QUESTION: If it's private discrimination, it'snot constitutional; if it's State discrimination, it is aconstitutional question. Isn't the question whether it'sdirected at discriminatory conduct? Isn't that the basicquestion?MR. TAGGART: Well --QUESTION: Or do you concede it is directed atdiscriminatory conduct.MR. TAGGART: No, we do not concede that it'sdirected at discriminatory conduct. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: But if it were directed atdiscrimination, discriminatory conduct, that would embraceboth the States and the private employers, wouldn't it?MR. TAGGART: Well, that -- we do not concedethat point, because Congress did not have any predicate onwhich to base the direction of this onto the States, andI'd like to reserve the remainder of my time for rebuttal,please.QUESTION: Very well, Mr. Taggart.Ms. Pillard.ORAL ARGUMENT OF CORNELIA T. L. PILLARDON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTMS. PILLARD: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice, andmay it please the Court:The Family Medical Leave Act is an appropriate response to enduring problems of State sex discriminationbias against women in hiring and promotion becauseemployers assume that women are more likely than men toleave their jobs to go take care of their family members,and bias against men in the dispensing of family leave.Congress gathered ample recent evidence of thesemutually reinforcing problems, and Congress also built ona known foundation of State laws and decisions fosteringdifferent roles for men and women in work and family. Those different roles and beliefs about them persist. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Offering a threshold amount of leave to men andwomen alike is responsive to the problems. The act hassuccessfully encouraged more men to take the leave, and innarrowing the gap between men's and women's leave rates,the act erodes the very basis of employers' bias againstwomen. If you will, it makes men and women equallyunattractive.(Laughter.)MS. PILLARD: The act also responds todiscrimination against men in the dispensing of leave. Abare prohibition against discrimination doesn't do thatand, in fact, the bare prohibition against discriminationin the dispensing of leave had been in place. That'sTitle VII, and that, for the generation during which TitleVII applied to the States, that had not succeeded in eradicating sex-based dispensing of leave, and in the realworld --States?QUESTION: Sex-based dispensing of leave by theMS. PILLARD: By the States.QUESTION: Well, what statistics are there thatsupport that statement?MS. PILLARD: Mr. Chief Justice, I'd like tohighlight four aspects of the evidence of sex-baseddiscrimination in leave specifically about the States. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC First, Congress learned of the pattern of Stategranting leave through the Bureau of Labor Statistics'figures. In , percent of women in State and localgovernment, as compared to percent of men in State andlocal government, were offered parenting leave. Yale alsodid a -State survey to which --QUESTION: Excuse me, what --QUESTION: You know, I presume to get parentingleave you have to be a parent, and it doesn't seem to methat that -- that is a terribly instructive statisticunless it -- it's shown that equal numbers were parents,or equal numbers applied.MS. PILLARD: The statute --QUESTION: Could you tell me what, before we goon with the discussion, what you mean by, were offered parenting leave?MS. PILLARD: Parenting leave was available tothem in their State --QUESTION: Was available, whether they took itor not?MS. PILLARD: Whether they took it or not. Thisis not rates of people taking. This is rates of peoplewho had it available.QUESTION: Who had the opportunity to take it?MS. PILLARD: Should they choose, yes, and the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Bureau of Labor Statistics is very clear on that.QUESTION: How -- how could that be? TheStates' laws were written in such a way that --MS. PILLARD: The States' laws and the States'policies, and this is confirmed by other pieces ofevidence. Yale did a -State survey to which Statesresponded, and of those States themselves said theyoffered parenting leave to women and not to men undertheir policies.QUESTION: Well, that's , out of States.QUESTION: Excuse me, when you say parenting --QUESTION: Let her respond to my question.(Laughter.)MS. PILLARD: That's out of the respondedthat themselves admitted that they -- they had these policies. The president of the labor union thatrepresents State employees said, the vast majority of ourcontracts really cover maternity leave. They're not --QUESTION: Exactly, and that explains thediscrepancy. I'm trying to figure out -- what you'resaying is that some States provided for maternity leave,but did not provide any leave for the father, but that'squite a different thing.I mean, does one have to think that parentingleave, which is the ability to go home and take care of a th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC child, is the same as allowing a woman who's just gonethrough childbirth some leave to recuperate from thechildbirth? I don't think that proves anything at all. It just proves that some States had a policy of maternityleave, and presumably if, you know, if one of their maleemployees gave birth they'd give him maternity leave, too.(Laughter.)MS. PILLARD: Justice Scalia, let me clarify,each of these studies and all the figures that I'm citingare not talking about pregnancy disability leave. We'retalking about maternity leave over and above pregnancydisability leave, so we're talking about whether it'sunconstitutional for a State to assume that women and notmen can appropriately go home and take --QUESTION: I thought we were talking about the medical leave act here. We're not talking aboutparenting, are we?MS. PILLARD: We're talking about both. Part ofthe medical leave provision allows parents to take care oftheir seriously ill children as well as their spouses orparents, and Congress saw these as part and parcel of thesame phenomenon.QUESTION: Did any State have parenting leavelaws which say, we just want you to have time to take careof your family, which applied only to men -- only to women th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC and not to men?MS. PILLARD: Yes, all --QUESTION: I know plenty of States had maternityleave. I consider that a different category entirely. Were there any States that had parenting leave, time totake care of your family, that applied only to women andnot to men?MS. PILLARD: Justice Scalia, each of theseStates, when they called it maternity leave, the importantdistinction is that it encompassed but was not restrictedto a period of pregnancy disability.We're talking about, for example, in our lodgingappendix at page , the Rhode Island agreement thatapplied from to . In provision ., maternityleave is available for up to a year, without regard to pregnancy disability. Another example at page , ofour lodging, maternity leaves not to exceed months, butmay be extended, and paternity leaves are available for months, so someone -- a woman can take a maternity leaveup to a year without a showing of maternity disability,and a man can take months. And on page of thelodging, again the Pennsylvania agreement says that womencan take a period of months, and it may be extended for months, no provision for a man who is so inclined andwho wishes to do so, to go take care of his infant child, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC and I think these stereotypes are very alive and welltoday, and the act was --QUESTION: Kind of the successor of the mangoing down with his babe in arms to ask for an excuse fromjury duty and they said, would tell him no, you don't getany excuse, but you give excuses to women. Yes, becausewomen take care of children. I take care of children. That's the same thing.MS. PILLARD: It's precisely these assumptionsthat have caused State employers and other employers todiscriminate against women in hiring, promotion, andretention, and against men in the dispensing of leave, andthese are really two sides of the same coin. And the actis working. In the years that were studied from to, there was a jump from approximately percent to percent of the percentage of male --QUESTION: Would the act be any less valid if wewere to conclude it weren't working?MS. PILLARD: No, but I think the point is thatthere's an ongoing problem, and that Congress was correctin discerning that this was really at the core of theproblem.QUESTION: And why couldn't Congress have solvedthat problem adequately by simply prescribing that noState shall discriminate in -- in the -- in the giving of th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC -- of family leave?MS. PILLARD: Justice Scalia, Congressalready --QUESTION: No maternity leave, kind of no Statecan have maternity leave as a separate category, and allfamily care leave must be offered equally to men andwomen. Why -- why wouldn't that have been a proportionateresponse to -- to the defect that they had found? Why --why did the Federal Government, in order to solve theproblem, have to impose upon the States weeks, justpulled out of the air, weeks, this is the solution tothis constitutional problem?MS. PILLARD: Justice Scalia, that prohibitionwas already in place from , and the problem also isthat a bare prohibition against discrimination cannot respond to discrimination against men in the dispensing ofleave, because in the real world a facially neutral policywithout a threshold leave entitlement really equates to adiscretionary practice of dispensing leave tainted bystereotypes about who should need it.QUESTION: I don't understand what you said.MS. PILLARD: Even if employers do notaffirmatively provide for any leave, they equally have ano-leave policy for men and women that is formally equal. In the real world, some workers ask for leave and some do th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC get family leave, but by leaving it up to supervisordiscretion we open the door --QUESTION: But there's --MS. PILLARD: -- to discrimination.QUESTION: But where -- is it supervisordiscretion? You -- the supervisor cannot discriminate onthe basis of sex. I think what you're saying is thatwithout this -week period, many men just wouldn't takethe leave. That's probably right, but then many menwouldn't necessarily take the -week leave either, ifit's available.MS. PILLARD: Many men would be deterred, ifthey didn't have an affirmative right to take the leave,by the assumption that their employers would not grantthem leave if they requested it, by the assumption that they would be retaliated against in the employment processif they took it, because it is still much moreunacceptable for men to take family leave than for women.QUESTION: Let me ask this question about theoperation of this law in light of our recent cases on theEleventh Amendment. Is it your understanding that becauseof the exercise of the Commerce Clause power, that theStates are bound by this law --MS. PILLARD: That's right.QUESTION: -- to grant the leave? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MS. PILLARD: That's right, Justice Kennedy.QUESTION: So all we're talking -- and -- and doyou think that State attorney generals like -- probablyMr. Taggart would be the better one to ask thatquestion -- would tell their Governors and their officialsyou are bound, by law, to grant the family -- to followthe Family Medical Leave Act?MS. PILLARD: So the question is, why damages? Once Congress has found a problem, a serious problem ofunconstitutional discrimination, that we assert existshere, the standard remedy to enforce rights in theemployment context is make whole monetary relief, thecenterpiece of which is lost wages. Title VII usesdamages, the Equal Pay Act uses damages, and here, in theFamily Medical Leave Act, these are limited damages. Congress took great care to ensure that they wouldn'toverburden the States --QUESTION: I understand that, but it seems to meif there's a big problem you can have an Ex Parte Youngsuit or, if the Government just is -- the United States isconcerned about this, the Government of the United Statescan intervene, and why isn't that wholly adequate --MS. PILLARD: Congress determined --QUESTION: -- to enforce this law?MS. PILLARD: Congress considered very carefully th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC that damages were needed, and limited the damages. They're just enough to spur enforcement and not burdenemployers, including the States. You need money damagesto make sure cases get the attention of higher-ups inState government as well as in private industry.States at the highest levels may be fullyresponsive, but the application of stereotypes istypically at the lower level of the supervisor withhiring, promotion, and assignment discretion, the linesupervisor in the State university, in the State hospital,in the State troopers, in the State human servicesagencies, like where Mr. Hibbs worked, and without theclear commitment by Congress that a threshold of familyleave is going to be made available not on an ad hocbasis, not according to supervisor decisions about who really needs the leave, but because Federal law requiresit as a remedy for past discrimination. Only then willthat message really reach the line supervisors who aremaking these decisions.So I would emphasize that the act is working,the damages are limited, and the problems at which it aimsare clearly unconstitutional, and petitioners are justwrong that there was no evidence in the legislativerecord. Congress clearly identified the problems, theproblems of the States as on a par with problems of other th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC sectors.Congress was well aware of the body of recentjudicial decisions, finding State sex discrimination inemployment. We've included some illustrative examples inour brief at footnote . The United States has includedsome examples of the most recent cases in their brief atnote and, as I was discussing before, Congress learnedof the patterns of States granting leave to women but notto men, and Congress saw the family medical issue as partand parcel of the parenting leave issue. These were allresponsibilities, family care responsibilitiestraditionally performed by wives. And so Congress aimedin subsections (a), (b), and (c) at a common problem ofemployers' assumptions of women taking leave burdeningtheir employment prospects, and employers' assumptions that men did not need the leave, hindering their abilityto take it, which in turn exacerbates the discriminationproblem against -- against women.So denial of employment opportunity to women andof family leave to men are two sides of the same coin. Congress clearly identified the problems, had factsshowing that they continued. Nearly every State, until ageneration ago, overtly placed discriminatory restrictionson womens' workforce participation. That history --QUESTION: A generation ago. How many years is th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC a generation?MS. PILLARD: Well, when Congress was acting in, it was only years since Title VII had beenextended to the States, and less than that since thisCourt had adopted heightened scrutiny of sex-basedclassifications based on the recognition that publicagencies have a -- have a tendency to rely on overbroadsex-based generalizations, overbroad sex-basedclassifications, so it was -- it was only since the 'sthat we started to recognize that discrimination that wehad previously seen as benign, as often intended to helpwomen, was really hindering their advancement, and to --and to seek to try to dismantle that system.QUESTION: And the changes in the unemploymentand Workers' Compensation laws, those persisted. Wasn'tthe Wengler decision in ?MS. PILLARD: That's right. We havedecisions --QUESTION: And States all have that kind of one-way law, where the woman did not -- if the woman wageearner died, then her husband got nothing because she wasnot considered really an equal worker.MS. PILLARD: Really her wages weresupplemental.QUESTION: And that went on till . th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MS. PILLARD: That's exactly right, and we havethe beginning of a process of dismantling thisdiscrimination.QUESTION: Thank you, Ms. Pillard.Mr. Dinh.ORAL ARGUMENT OF VIET D. DINHON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT UNITED STATESMR. DINH: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice, and mayit please the Court:The Family and Medical Leave Act is just onepart of a broader statutory scheme to eliminate sex-basedemployment discrimination in the hiring, retention,promotion, and granting of leave benefits for both men andwomen, and that's the key point to emphasize here. Congress was acting not simply to remedy discrimination in leave-granting policies, but more fundamentally Congresssought to remedy and prevent sex-based employmentdiscrimination based on impermissible presumptions aboutthe role of women in the home and the role of men in theoffice.QUESTION: I --QUESTION: In our cases, is there any differencebetween Congress' prohibiting something under its section power and creating a substantive entitlement under thatpower? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. DINH: I have not seen a distinction in thecases, in the section cases of this Court. They are fewand far between, as you can --QUESTION: Uh-huh, right.MR. DINH: -- as you can appreciate, but thedistinction is not readily made. One can characterize theentitlement here as simply a prohibition on discriminationfor men and women who take leave. It is simply an --QUESTION: No, it isn't, it's weeks.QUESTION: -- entitlement to come back to a job.QUESTION: Well, it's a -week period.QUESTION: It says you get weeks, and if --if we approve this, we are establishing the propositionthat in order to eliminate, to enforce any of theprovisions of the Fourteenth Amendment, but in particular equal protection, the Government may establish whateversubstantive requirements might further equal protection,and I just don't know where the Government plucks weeksfrom and says that it -- we have to stop discrimination,and therefore everybody's entitled to weeks of leave,and it's an extraordinary leap.MR. DINH: Your Honor, I disagree that there isno limiting principle here, and the limiting principle isprecisely provided by this Court's jurisprudence incongruence and proportionality. That's precisely the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC limiting principle as to what is the constitutionalviolation that Congress seeks to redress, and whether ornot the remedy is congruent and proportional. The constitutional violation here that Congressseeks to redress or to prevent is employment-baseddiscrimination based upon presumptions about leave-takinghabits of men and women.QUESTION: And was that the big fight in thestatute? Is that what was really going on when this -week -- I mean, I -- I was around at the time, and Iremember the big -- the big discussion was whether thereought to be a Federal law that requires all employers, notStates in particular, but all employers to give allworkers weeks of family leave if they wanted it. Thatwas what all the discussion was. I didn't hear any discussion at the time of sex discrimination, and youpresent it to us as though this was the motivating factorof the legislation. I find that hard to believe.MR. DINH: Your Honor, I was not there at thetime, and I --(Laughter.)MR. DINH: But I will take your word for it, butmore importantly, I think we should take Congress' word onits face. Congress says at U.S.C. (b)() that thepurpose of the, one of the purpose of the statute is, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC quote, to promote the goal of equal employment opportunityfor women and men pursuant to the Equal Protection Clause,and the further evidence --QUESTION: Justice Scalia is right, is he not,that it -- the bill that he's talking about was the 'bill, and that didn't say anything about the EqualProtection Clause, and that's the startling differencebetween the bill that actually passed in .MR. DINH: That's precisely right, JusticeO'Connor -- I mean, Justice Ginsburg. Justice Scalia wastalking about S. , the bill. The first time thatthe section (), the promotion goal that entered into thestatute was in the next iteration, H.R. in the House,in , and concurrent with the insertion of thepromotion of equal opportunity, Congress also included the provision for family leave for care of parent illnesses,as opposed to simple -- simply children illnesses. And sothere is some concurrency with respect to Congress'reliance on, for the first time, section () authority andthe grant of family leave, and that's consistent with thelegislative record that was before Congress.Congress was facing a situation where it wasfinding more two-worker families entering in the workforceand increased demand for family care in the workforce, andit said that, based upon the evidence, as Justice Souter th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC had summarized, that when push came to shove, women wouldbe expected to take leave to take care of the family, andCongress was finding that push was, indeed, coming toshove, and was adopting a remedy that was directlyproportional and congruent to the period of constitutionalviolation. It adopted a gender-neutral entitlement toleave so as to eliminate the underlying presumption thatthis Court has said is impermissible.QUESTION: Would weeks have beenproportional?MR. DINH: Your Honor, I'd -- that would be amore difficult case. I do not think that --QUESTION: weeks? Would weeks beproportional?MR. DINH: It would -- the -- the -- I do not think that this Court's jurisprudence on proportionalityhas fine -- is so finely tuned, and this Court's lackof --QUESTION: Of course, that jurisprudence cameafter the statute was enacted anyway.MR. DINH: And I do not think that this Court'sevaluation of congressional enactments under section (),the unique remedial powers of Congress under section (),would turn on whether it's weeks or weeks or weeks. Of course, if it is more an increase, then it th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC would be less proportional, if it is less, then it wouldbe more proportional.QUESTION: I agree that it shouldn't turn on thelength. That's the point I was getting to. I can'timagine that it would turn on the length.QUESTION: Perhaps Justice Scalia should askthis question, but I was just wondering --(Laughter.)QUESTION: -- if you have to get to the --QUESTION: Pass it to me. I'll --(Laughter.)QUESTION: You have to get to the versionof the statute to introduce the equal protection notion,and it's interesting to me that precisely the same remedywas provided after the equal protection became an ingredient of the problem as was provided before the equalprotection rationale was introduced.MR. DINH: You mean, that same remedy, you meannumber of weeks?QUESTION: The same -week period. Wasn't thattrue?MR. DINH: Not exactly, Your Honor. H -- thefirst time that the family leave was introduced and thefirst time the section () authority was invoked was inH.R. , and there were differing leave times for th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC different provisions.I believe there was one that for section (d),for the personal disability, it was weeks. Some was at weeks. It turns out that when Congress passed thisstatute, a prior version of which was , , and thisversion in , it pretty much reached the equilibrium of weeks. This is the normal give-and-take of thelegislative process, and nowhere in this Court'sjurisprudence --QUESTION: And this was the statute that wasrepeatedly vetoed, as I remember it, the bill, byPresident Bush, and the basis for the veto had nothing todo with discrimination, that it really was based on thelength of the provision.MR. DINH: No, Your Honor, you are right, the --I have reviewed the veto statements. They concern theimposition that these types of policies would have onsmall businesses and the economy of the United States,rather than on the discrimination provisions at issue. But it's clear that Congress, in passing the statute, wasrelying on the discrimination, discriminatory effects thatthese types of leave policies would have on women. And Ithink the crux of this case, if I may, turns exactly,Justice O'Connor, on your comparison with the evidencethat was before Congress when it enacted Title VII, when th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC it extended that, when it included that into the gender.As you may recall, this Court in, I believe inPrice Waterhouse v. Hopkins, recounted the legislativehistory of how gender entered into Title VII, and it wasentered there as the legislative equivalent of the poisonpill in order to attempt to kill Title VII, and so notmuch evidence was put into the record regarding genderdiscrimination, and yet, as you noted in , inFitzpatrick v. Bitzer, this Court assumed that that wasadequate in order to invoke section () authority, orjustify section () authority.QUESTION: Do -- do you want us to say thatbefore the Family Medical Leave Act was enacted there wasa discernible pattern of intentional and purposefuldiscrimination by the States in violation of the Equal Protection Clause with reference to the granting of leave?MR. DINH: There was evidence, with respect tothe granting of leave, of such discrimination in therecord before Congress, yes, Your Honor, but in additionto that, there was a discernible pattern of employmentdiscrimination that this Court had taken judicial noticeof and Congress had before it and, in particular, Congresshas evidence of employment discrimination based on leave-taking presumptions that this Court has found to beillegal. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: I guess you're thinking under thisCourt's cases, which we accept as a given, Congress wouldhave more leeway to create a remedy for the generaldiscrimination than it might have if the discrimination,that if the leave discrimination were at issue?MR. DINH: It goes into both the --QUESTION: You think there's enough for both,but the remedial power is greater, is that right?MR. DINH: There's no question that under the --under Kimel the Court has said that difficult, intractableproblems often require more powerful remedies, and thatwould certainly be the, how the Court would evaluate --QUESTION: It's hard for me to see there's adiscernible pattern of intentional and purposefuldiscrimination when in the legislative history of this act the States were cited as being in the forefront ofenlightened policies. That's what the record shows, andyou're up here arguing just the opposite.MR. DINH: Your Honor, some States were in thevanguard, some States were laggards in the granting ofleave policies.QUESTION: But the latter was not mentioned.MR. DINH: Yes, there -- yes, it was, YourHonor. I would refer Your Honor to the United Statesbrief at pages to , and also the brief for the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC petitioner at pages through , which recounts some ofthis -- some of this evidence.The key here -- but nevertheless, the statementin the record that you noted was about States' leavepolicies, whether or not they had leave policies at all. We know States had -- had leave policy. The positionof the United States rests upon not whether States hadleave policy, but the character of such leave policies.QUESTION: Mr. Dinh, would it violate thisstatute for a State to provide the -week family leave tomen and women both, but also to continue a policy of -week maternity leave? Would that violate the statute?MR. DINH: In addition to a -week, Your Honor?QUESTION: In addition to the weeks.MR. DINH: weeks, if I can characterize the weeks not as maternity leave, but as pregnancy disabilityleave --QUESTION: Call it pregnancy disability leave.MR. DINH: Well, this is actually a matter ofquite -- quite good -- quite --QUESTION: What's in a name?MR. DINH: No, no, it is a matter of substance,not form alone, because pregnancy disability, medicallyand in insurance terms --QUESTION: No necessity to prove disability, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC just, if you have a child, you're entitled to weeks off.MR. DINH: If you are --QUESTION: You don't have to prove that youcan't walk, or anything else, just, if you have a child,you have weeks off.MR. DINH: If --QUESTION: Would that violate this act?MR. DINH: If the grant of the additional weeks is on a sex-based basis --QUESTION: Well, it is. It's maternity. Imean --(Laughter.)MR. DINH: If that is the case, then thatwould -- that may very well violate Title VII. It wouldnot violate this particular statute.QUESTION: Would it violate the Equal ProtectionClause?MR. DINH: Yes, it may very well violate theEqual Protection Clause if it is above and beyond thepregnancy disability leave that this Court has recognizedcan be accommodated, unconstitutionally though --QUESTION: That would solve the problem, unlessyour answer is categorically yes, it would violate it,because then the discrepancy, the percent versus percent that we're talking about would continue. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. DINH: Well, the -- the key here, JusticeScalia, is that after the period that is recognized aspregnancy disability, and therefore constitutional underGeduldig, beyond that, parental leave, infant care leaveis simply parental leave, and there's no differencewhether the mother or the father takes care of the child.Indeed, the law would not countenance such adifference, because that would be relying on the verypresumptions that the law condemns. And so the key hereis that if there is an additional grant of leave to eithersex beyond the period of pregnancy disability, that wouldconstitute a violation of Title VII. It would notconstitute a violation of the FMLA. The reason for that is very simple. The FMLAwas enacted as part of the overall antidiscrimination scheme. It supplements and does not supplant Title VII. It paints a little bit more broad -- more broadly thanTitle VII in the sense that it grants affirmative leaverights, but in one further, in one important respect itpaints very much more narrowly, as your -- as yourquestion to my colleague, Mr. Taggart, had indicated,Justice Kennedy. That is because it is very narrowlytailored to the particular problem that Congress wasfacing, which is the problem of employment discriminationbased on leave-taking propensities. And so in that sense th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC it is perfectly congruent to the constitutional problemthat Congress was addressing.Congress could not very well have addressed theproblem of gender-based differentials and the presumptionsin law and in practice that arise from those differentialsby granting additional leave rights only to women, orgranting leave rights only to men that would perpetuatethe discrimination and the presumptions, rather thaneliminate it root and branch.The key to the money damages is the same key asit is in our general antidiscrimination statutes. Thatshould not be a surprising -- Title VII has the same typeof damage remedies, and the reason for that is thatdiscrimination, whether it be for race or for gender, ispervasive and pernicious and historically recognized by this Court, and so Congress has made a judgment that itneeds as many hands on deck as possible in order toenforce the effort to eradicate discrimination, and moneydamages is part of the normal remedy in order to ensurethat plaintiffs are made whole and State actors aredeterred from acting unconstitutionally or, in this case,in violation of the section () legislation that is at the-- the -- at issue here.The fact that -- if I may return to the pointthat the fact that it should not be surprising that this th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Court assumed in Fitzpatrick v. Bitzer that the -- thatCongress had authority under section () to include genderdiscrimination in Title VII, because in the same year wasthe year that the Court for the first time extendedheightened scrutiny in Craig v. Boren, so --QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. Dinh.MR. DINH: Thank you.QUESTION: Mr. Taggart, you have minutesremaining.REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF PAUL G. TAGGARTON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERSMR. TAGGART: First, it's important todistinguish that paternity leave and leave for childbirthand when a child is adopted is not the question that waspresented to this Court today.The question presented to this Court is familyleave, and there's certainly no record of family leavedifferentials, as has been argued with respect toparenting leave, and second, it is not possible under anyjurisprudence of this Court to simply presume that Statemanagers discriminate based upon some stereotype. TitleVII doesn't do that, the Equal Protection Clause, thisCourt's section () jurisprudence that interprets theEqual Protection Clause doesn't do that, the heightenedscrutiny test does not do that, it does not allow someone th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC to simply presume that State managers are using some --some outdated stereotype in making their decisions.The third point I want to make is, it's ourposition that one who reads the text and the history ofthe Family and Medical Leave Act would hardly recognizethe statute that has been described here today. This wassimply every-day economic legislation, and upholding theFMLA would simply tear section () from any remedialmoorings by allowing a general legislative power ofCongress to grant economic benefits so long as there issome incidental benefit to some suspect class.QUESTION: You mean holding, upholding moneydamages under the FMLA, because I take it you concede, ordon't you, that Nevada is bound to follow this law?MR. TAGGART: Since -- I do concede that, and since Nevada has had a -- a State policy of givingour workers Federal family medical leave. We also haveour own State medical leave laws, so States have joined,and have actually led the Federal Government in providingfamily leave for their employees, and to simply say, andignore that -- that pattern and say instead that Statesare engaged in a pattern of discrimination, or wereengaged in in a pattern of discrimination, in ourview does not stand up to any of this Court's section ()jurisprudence. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Thank you, Your Honor.CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: Thank you, Mr.Taggart. The case is submitted.(Whereupon, at : p.m., the case in theabove-entitled matter was submitted.) th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC 