IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XLISA MADIGAN, ATTORNEY GENERAL :OF ILLINOIS, Petitioner ::v. : No. -TELEMARKETING ASSOCIATES, INC., ET AL. ::- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XWashington, D.C.Monday, March , The above-entitled matter came on for oralargument before the Supreme Court of the United States at: a.m.APPEARANCES:RICHARD S. HUSZAGH, ESQ., Assistant Attorney General,Chicago, Illinois; on behalf of the Petitioner.PAUL D. CLEMENT, ESQ., Deputy Solicitor General,Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on behalf ofthe United States, as amicus curiae, supporting thePetitioner.M. ERROL COPILEVITZ, ESQ., Kansas City, Missouri; onbehalf of the Respondents. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC C O N T E N T SORAL ARGUMENT OF RICHARD S. HUSZAGH, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioner ORAL ARGUMENT OFPAUL D. CLEMENT, ESQ.PAGEOn behalf of the United States, as amicus curiae,supporting the Petitioner ORAL ARGUMENT OFM. ERROL COPILEVITZOn behalf of the Respondents REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OFRICHARD S. HUSZAGH, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioner th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC P R O C E E D I N G S(: a.m.)CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: We'll hear argumentnext in Number -, Lisa Madigan, Attorney General ofIllinois, versus Telemarketing Associates.Mr. Huszagh.ORAL ARGUMENT OF RICHARD S. HUSZAGHON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERMR. HUSZAGH: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court:It cannot be true that charitable solicitors arefree to commit fraud just because they are charitablesolicitors. Under long-established common law fraudprinciples, it is unquestionably fraudulent to inducesomeone to make a gift of money by saying it will be used for a specific charitable purpose when, in fact, only anominal amount goes to that purpose and the solicitorkeeps the vast majority. The First Amendment does not --QUESTION: What about --MR. HUSZAGH: -- displace these principles.QUESTION: What about percent going to thecharitable purpose?MR. HUSZAGH: percent may or may not be amisrepresentation, depending upon what the public was toldabout the ultimate purpose of -- th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC QUESTION: The public's told, you know, I'm --I'm soliciting for X charity, would you -- would you givemoney, please, for X charity --MR. HUSZAGH: If the public --QUESTION: -- to help children in Cambodia.MR. HUSZAGH: Well --QUESTION: percent of the money actually goesto that purpose, percent.MR. HUSZAGH: If the public reasonablyunderstands that significantly more than that amount goesto that purpose --QUESTION: I -- I --MR. HUSZAGH: -- then it would be amisrepresentation to rely upon --QUESTION: What do we --MR. HUSZAGH: -- that assumption --QUESTION: -- public opinion poll as to whetherthe public reasonably understood it was going to be morethan percent?MR. HUSZAGH: Assumptions form a fundamentalpart of human communication, assumptions about the meaningof language, assumptions -- assumptions about events andconditions. If somebody were to say that they weresoliciting money to -- for -- for the family of people whodied on September , and the people they were referring th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC to were their parents who died of natural causes inTopeka, Kansas, on September of , that's amisrepresentation, because people are entitled to make areasonable --QUESTION: Sure.MR. HUSZAGH: -- assumption about what thatlanguage means.QUESTION: That was misleading, but it is notmisleading to say, I'm going to -- this money is going togo to this charitable cause when, in fact, you acknowledgemany charities have to pay substantial amounts,substantial percentages in order to, in order to getorganizations to solicit for them, and who -- who is tosay that the percent is too much. I've no idea whetherit is.MR. HUSZAGH: I think that --QUESTION: You're just going to give that to ajury and leave the fundraising to be liable criminally ornot, depending upon whether this jury thinks that percent is too little to go, or -- I -- I just -- I'mnot comfortable with that at all.MR. HUSZAGH: I -- I think the Court needs todistinguish between two different types of circumstances. One is the fact that there may be legitimate reasons why acharity could have expenses above a certain level. It th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC could be that they're an unpopular charity. It could bethat it's a charity that's small, or has recently startedup, but those are the types of reasons that the Court usedto invalidate laws that declared expenses above a certainthreshold to -- to establish that the charity was a shamentirely. Those don't negate --QUESTION: It would still be a misrepresentationeven if they had good reasons for -- for giving thefundraiser percent of the money.MR. HUSZAGH: And --QUESTION: It would still be amisrepresentation, wouldn't it?MR. HUSZAGH: And that's my point, that theFirst Amendment should not displace that principle wheremisrepresentations are determined based upon whether the defendant made a material misrepresentation of fact, andit's -- i is no different from --QUESTION: Well, would this prosecution havebeen brought if the fee, if the amount given to thecharity had been more substantial?MR. HUSZAGH: There's a substantial likelihood,or there's less likelihood that such a prosecution wouldbought, been brought, because --QUESTION: How would anyone know when theAttorney General would be likely to charge them? th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC MR. HUSZAGH: I think really the ultimatequestion is not whether they're going to know whether theAttorney General is going to bring the case, but whetherthey've committed fraud. Ultimately, the Attorney Generalis not going to prosecute every case of fraud that exists,and --QUESTION: Is -- is there an intent requirement,an intent to defraud requirement under the Illinois law?MR. HUSZAGH: As to what we've alleged forcommon law fraud, yes, there is, and we've made thatallegation as -- with respect to all of the statutoryantifraud counts as well, and to the extent that there isa concern about the uncertainty as to whether a specificstatement may be a misrepresentation, depending upon theinability to predict exactly what the public may know, then certainly there's no such objection if the defendant,it can be proved knew that they were creating a falseimpression.QUESTION: But one of your affidavits says thatone of the solicitees expressly asked and was told that percent or more goes to the vets. Now, certainlythat's a classic misrepresentation, is it not?MR. HUSZAGH: Yes, it is, but our position goesfurther, which is that there is no constitutional value inintentional half-truths or artificial, contrived ways of th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC stating something that may be literally true --QUESTION: No, but the concern that we have isthat there's no -- there is no way to predict in advancewhat is going to be treated or what is going to be foundas the half-truth.Let me put the question to you this way. Leaveto the side the moment the particular cases that in --that you include among -- among those you have brought inwhich at least the allegation is that a very specificmisrepresentation was made, no labor cost, percent goesto the -- to the -- the objects of the charity. Put themaside, and consider only the cases in which norepresentation is made beyond the fact that we arecollecting money for this charity, and no representationis made about the amount of money that's going to go for overhead and the amount that's actually going to get tothe charitable donees.I don't see where any charitable fundraisercould in advance draw a line and say, I don't have todisclose anything under risk of being prosecuted. I wouldsuppose that any charitable fundraiser, if you win thiscase, would say, there's only one way I can cover myself,and that is to disclose the percentages when I make the --the solicitation. Otherwise, I'm vulnerable to aprosecution. If that is the way the charitable th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC fundraisers are going to be forced to operate, then, infact, we have totally undercut the precedent that says youcan't require that disclosure, so my question is, how canwe, how could we sanction a system on your theory thatwould be fair, without, in practical terms, whether we sayit or not, requiring the very disclosure that we have saidpreviously need not be required?MR. HUSZAGH: I would agree that if that werethe conclusion as to what would occur in -- in -- if thelaw that we advocate were permitted, then the Court wouldeffectively be forced to reevaluate the validity of itsprecedents, and we are not --QUESTION: And maybe we should. I'm not sayingone way or the other there, but --MR. HUSZAGH: But in this case we are not urging the Court to do so, but it is our -- our premise thatthe -- that that conclusion does not necessarily follow,and it has not been established in this case.Ultimately, these speakers know how much isgoing to be used for various purposes, or they certainlyhave the ability to know that, and they are the masters oftheir own speech, and to suggest that they have no abilityto know what the public is going to believe, or be led tobelieve when they make specific representations aboutseeking money for charity I think is somewhat unrealistic. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC QUESTION: Okay, let's assume that it'sunrealistic in this particular case. /, okay, let'sassume you win. /, /, / -- it's those casesthat we've got to worry about.MR. HUSZAGH: But I think that the -- thequestion then becomes whether the Court should displacecommon law fraud principles, which already provide ameasure of breathing room for that type of uncertainty. Ultimately --QUESTION: I suppose the breathing room is thatthere has to be a false statement, a misrepresentation,let's assume with knowledge of its falsity, which isrelied upon by the -- by the listener, that there'ssome -- has to be damage and so forth. Is that whatyou -- what do you tell the jury, what a reasonable person would believe?MR. HUSZAGH: No. It is important for the juryto decide what, in fact, the donating public did believeas to how much was going to be used for the purposesdescribed, that this is not some normative imposition bythe Government as to what's reasonable. This is anadjudicatory process to determine what the understandingof the public was, and ultimately --QUESTION: What would the instruction, though,to the jury be under the Illinois law? What must the th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC State prove here?MR. HUSZAGH: The State would have to prove thatthere were a material misrepresentation of fact, leavingaside for a moment the intent requirement. The materialmisrepresentation of fact includes three elements whichprovide the defendant with a breathing space for some ofthe uncertainties that the Court seems to be sensitive to. First, the assertion must be factual, not some type ofrepresentation like, this charity is a humdinger thatcan't be disproved in a court of law.The interpretation, the meaning to that statement hasto be a reasonable one, which is an objective requirementsubject to supervision by the courts, so if somebodybelieved that percent of every donation was going togo to charity, that is objectively unreasonable, and the Court would eliminate that.QUESTION: Well, what -- what you say would bevery impressive and would eliminate my problems if youwere willing to go further and say, whenever you say, I'mraising money for Vietnamese orphans, oh, percent ofthe money you collect is understood by the public to begoing to Vietnamese orphans, but you're not willing to saythat.MR. HUSZAGH: No, because that's not reasonable. It's not reasonable -- th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC QUESTION: Because that's not reasonable.MR. HUSZAGH: It's not reasonable for the publicto assume --QUESTION: percent.MR. HUSZAGH: The -- there is no --QUESTION: So -- so the --QUESTION: So it has a reasonable understanding.QUESTION: -- what does -- what does the judgeinstruct the jury? Ladies and gentlemen of the jury, ifyou think it's reasonable to send -- or -- or what? No,no, it wouldn't be whether it's reasonable. It's what youthink the average person would have thought, right?MR. HUSZAGH: It's what the Government provesthat the donating public understood based upon what theywere told, what they were reasonably led to believe. Thatmay include their background assumptions about how muchnormally goes to fundraising costs or other administrativeoverhead, and that can depend upon the nature of thecharity, as well as the statements made by the defendants.The other elements, to finish my answer toJustice O'Connor's and Justice Kennedy's questions, isthat there is in addition a materiality requirement. Itis not enough that the statement be technically false,like a difference between percent and percent. Thedifference has to be material, and that again provides th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC that certain falsity will go unprohibited because themateriality requirement already gives a buffer zone.QUESTION: Look at all -- think of all of the --of the green, dark green briefs. Those briefs are filledwith examples of instances where the telemarketer kept alarge, maybe , maybe percent, which seem perfectlylegitimate. For example, it's a start-up campaign, and atthe beginning they have to keep up more, keep more. Forexample, it's an educational campaign, and what thecharity thinks is, we want to spend this money so peoplewill have heard our name, or will examine themselves forpossible breast cancer, or whatever.Or, it could even be the Nature Conservancy,where for accounting reasons the money that's going topurchase land is not treated as if it were an expense on behalf of the charity, so they're filled with examples.MR. HUSZAGH: Well --Now, suppose in your case the defendant provedthat he was within one of those examples. Would you thensay, if the jury believes that, that you should win, orthe defendant, and the reason I ask is that I think mostpeople feel, and the relevance of your case is that themoney is going to help the charity, indeed, most of it,and what they will have shown is that the money did go tohelp the charity, but in this instance, helping the th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC charity was consistent with the telemarketer keeping avery large percentage, so could you explain how, in yourview, the law works with all those examples in the darkgreen briefs?MR. HUSZAGH: I -- I think there are two basicanswers to your question, Justice Breyer, and one is thatthe reasonableness of the manner in which the expendituresare made is not a proper subject of the Government'spaternalistic bureaucratic oversight to second-guess thatjudgment, and I think the Court made that clear both inMunson and more specifically in Riley, and we are notarguing that the -- whether the -- the plaintiff's fraudclaim for actual specific misrepresentations turns -- theywill win or lose, depending upon whether there is somereasonableness element to the manner of theexpenditures --QUESTION: No, well, if you're saying that theylose, the telemarketer, even if all the money is beingused to help the charity, then I agree with the thrust ofthe questions that have gone before.MR. HUSZAGH: Well --QUESTION: I don't see how you can possiblyprosecute people for fraud where there is no fraud --MR. HUSZAGH: But that leads to --QUESTION: -- and -- and that would seem to me a th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC case where there is no fraud.MR. HUSZAGH: That leads to the second pointthat I was going to make.QUESTION: And it's a charity, too, so there's aFirst Amendment right.MR. HUSZAGH: And I don't dispute that, but --QUESTION: Why -- why is there no fraud, justbecause the charge is reasonable? Fraud exists if youhave represented to the public something, whether thesomething you've represented is reasonable or unreasonableor not. If the public is unaware that percent is aperfectly reasonable charge for this kind of fundraising,and the public therefore believes, given what you've said,I'm raising money for Vietnamese orphans, that at least percent of that is going to go to Vietnam, then it seems to me you have a fraud case.MR. HUSZAGH: That is my answer to the secondpart of Justice Breyer's question.QUESTION: All right. In other words, youintend to convict people -- you intend to convict them,and this may be one of them. You intend to convict theNature Conservancy because percent of its revenue is --is accounted for as -- as telemarketing expense, where inreality, they're buying land with that.MR. HUSZAGH: No, I -- th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC QUESTION: Or you intend to convict the -- theorganization that is simply trying to inform women aboutthe importance of self-examination for cancer. Is thatthe answer?MR. HUSZAGH: No, it is not.QUESTION: Okay, then -- then why don't youelaborate on your answer.MR. HUSZAGH: Let me deal with the NatureConservancy first. I think that's an example in which thepublic who gives money to the Nature Conservancyunderstands realistically that their money is going to beused for the purpose of buying land, and to suggest insome artificial sense by a prosecutor that no, really theythought it was going to be used in an accounting format tobe treated as -- as an expense as opposed to a capital acquisition establishes fraud is -- is simply unrealistic.The other example again focuses upon thespecific nature of the representation made, and there --there is a wide variety of differences, but if therepresentation is made that the money is going to be usedto feed hungry orphans in Vietnam, it does not somehowbecome, per se, nonfraudulent if, in fact, those funds arebeing used to -- to get out the word about the plight ofVietnam veterans, which is different, and materiallydifferent from what the representation was to the donors. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC I think that is our basic --QUESTION: Counsel, let me ask you this. Is --is the State taking the position that there is a materialmisrepresentation of fact here because the amount given tothe charity was a trifling amount?MR. HUSZAGH: It -- yes, because it was atrifling amount --QUESTION: Is that -- is that how you bill thematerial misrepresentation?MR. HUSZAGH: Well, materiality doesn't alwayshave to rise to the level that there will only be atrifling amount that would go to the charity, but therewas a significant --QUESTION: But in this case?MR. HUSZAGH: Yes.QUESTION: And your -- the respondent's briefsays, well, the Governor had a charity ball, and just percent --MR. HUSZAGH: Well, I -- I don't --QUESTION: -- was kept and no prosecution.MR. HUSZAGH: I'd rather not use my time to tryand explain the misleading --QUESTION: Uh-huh.MR. HUSZAGH: -- impression given by thatexample. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC Let me just say that the facts of that case aredramatically different than were represented, and the --the argument that there has been any impermissibleselective prosecution in this case based upon some type ofdiscriminatory element that would violate the EqualProtection Clause, there's nothing in the record to that. If there were such a case, the Court has said that thereis a reserved ability to do so. What I would --QUESTION: Do you want to reserve the balance ofmy time, Mr. Huszagh?MR. HUSZAGH: Yes, I would. Thank you,Mr. Chief Justice.QUESTION: Mr. Clement, we'll hear from you.ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAUL D. CLEMENTON BEHALF OF THE UNITED STATES, AS AMICUS CURIAE, SUPPORTING THE PETITIONERMR. CLEMENT: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court:This Court has repeatedly reaffirmed theGovernment's authority to protect the public from fraud,even though virtually every representation involvesspeech.Indeed, while striking down broad prophylacticlaws, every time this Court has addressed the issue ofcharitable solicitation, it has reaffirmed the th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC constitutional viability of individual fraud actions.Now, part of the reason that this Court hasdistinguished between individual fraud actions and broadprophylactic rules is that an individual fraud action canbring into bear the entire context of a misrepresentation. The difficulty with a statute like that before the Courtin Riley was that it necessarily focused on a singlefactor, fundraising costs, and didn't take into accountwhat was told to individual donors or anything else, andthen categorically --QUESTION: But isn't that essentially,Mr. Clement, what is happening here? That is, theseare -- to the extent that these are telephone calls, andsay, like you to contribute to Vietnam, and this money'sgoing to be spent on veterans, and that's the extent of it, it seems that the Illinois Attorney General ismeasuring the decision whether to bring a fraud claim bythe percent that goes to the charity in comparison tothis -- this portion that goes to the fundraiser.MR. CLEMENT: I think that the fundraising costsare part of the analysis of the fraud action, but Iwouldn't have read Riley as making that factor whollyimmaterial, and I think the important thing is that in thecalls in this case, they weren't just saying, we're hereto raise money for Vietnam vets. The record suggests that th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC there was an emphasis on particular charitable services. We're raising money for food baskets. We're raising moneyto help veterans here in DuPage County.QUESTION: Well, that's fine. I mean, thosespecific misrepresentations that turned out to be false,and some of them said percent is going to go there,those are no problems. The ones we're concerned with arethe -- the fraud allegations that are sustained simply onthe basis of the fact this money is going to go to thiscause and, in fact, only percent of it is going to thatcause.MR. CLEMENT: Well, two responses, Your Honor. First of all, since there are these specificmisrepresentations in this case, that alone is a reason toreverse the decision, because the Illinois Supreme Court seemed to be laboring under the misimpression that thosecases were wholly off-limits because the fundraisingpercentage --QUESTION: We do have to write an opinionthough, you know.MR. CLEMENT: Absolutely.QUESTION: Okay.MR. CLEMENT: So let me bring you to the secondpart of the question, which is, I think there are problemswhen you have a situation where the only thing that is th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC said is, we're here to raise money for charity, but Ithink in reality, you have to give -- you have to trustjuries in common law fraud actions a little bit to takeinto account the broad nature of the representations thatare made. The -- the virtue of a fraud action as opposedto a broad prophylactic rule is that a fraud action cantake into account the entire mosaic of the representationsthat are made, and there's no need to focus on oneparticular tile and see whether it's literally true orliterally false.QUESTION: Would you be able to show to the juryhow reasonable it is for this particular fundraiser to --to retain percent?MR. CLEMENT: I -- I think so.QUESTION: Why?MR. CLEMENT: If every --QUESTION: Why? What does that have to do withwhat the effect of the representation was upon the public?MR. CLEMENT: Because there are other elementsof a common law fraud action. You also have to showmateriality, and reasonable reliance. If every singleperson raised --QUESTION: How does that go to materiality? How does it go to reasonable reliance?MR. CLEMENT: Because if every single person th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC raising money has had these astronomical fundraisingcosts, which of course is not true, but if that were true,then a -- an individual donor who recognized that mightwell not have any reasonable reliance on therepresentations that money is going to charity, becauseno -- no charity, apparently, can get any money to theactual services that money is being raised, but that's nottrue.A very important element of common law fraudthat I think can provide sufficient protection tolegitimate charities is the intent to deceive, and theintent to deceive I think is going to make a bigdifference, because if you have a legitimate charitythat's asked by a donor what percentage of the money goesto the specific service that you're raising money for, let's say, food baskets, and that charity responds andprovides forthcoming information, then I don't see how theprosecution or plaintiff can ever show an intent todeceive.On the other hand --QUESTION: Okay, but let's take -- let's takethe cases, leaving aside the specific misrepresentationshere, let's take the case that we've got. percent isgoing. I take it you believe that on the basis of that,a -- a jury could infer that there was an intent to th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC deceive, from the silence?MR. CLEMENT: I -- I think that's right, butI -- I would say --QUESTION: Okay.MR. CLEMENT: -- that part of the evidence I'dlike to put before the jury on intent to deceive --QUESTION: May I ask --MR. CLEMENT: -- is when a donor asks thatquestion --QUESTION: But the donor --QUESTION: This is not a jury trial, is it? Isn't this an equity proceeding? Everybody's talkingabout the jury all the way through, but I think it's a --QUESTION: A fraud action for damages is ajury --QUESTION: I thought it was a proceeding in --before -- in Chancery in this case.MR. CLEMENT: I'm reliably informed that thisparticular proceeding would go as a bench trial, which Ithink would provide even further protection for freespeech.QUESTION: Yes.MR. CLEMENT: I think that -- my answer is interms of the jury because I do think that the -- thedecision that this Court announces is going to affect jury th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC trials as well, but what I'm saying is, I'd like to getbefore the jury the fact that when these particularfundraisers were asked the question, well, where does themoney go, at least the record suggests that they flatlymisrepresented where the money --QUESTION: You -- you bet, and that's -- that'swhat you've got in this case, but as Justice Scalia said,we've got to write the opinion, and -- and if we considerthe case in which there were not these quite specificmisrepresentations, all you've got is silence about thepercentage, and a statement that the object of the charityis Vietnamese orphans or whatever it may be, it seems tome that when you start getting below the /, you getinto an area in which the -- the result is a dice throw,and if that is the case, the only way the charitable fundraiser can protect himself, with the greatest goodfaith in the world, is to disclose the percentage, and ifthat's what we are going to require in fact, then webetter face the fact that we're going to have to retreatfrom -- from what we've already held.What's your answer to that?MR. CLEMENT: Well, I would say first that wewouldn't have any objection if you wanted to retreat fromwhat you said in Riley.(Laughter.) th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC QUESTION: You wouldn't mind.MR. CLEMENT: But -- but --QUESTION: But isn't that what -- that's whatwe've got to do, isn't it?MR. CLEMENT: No, that is not what you have todo, and I think the important thing is the type of hypo ofjust all they do is call up and say, I'm here to raisemoney for charity, what that hypothetical tends to do isforce the analysis into the single variable analysisthat's reflected in broad prophylactic rules, and theanswer in these cases, and I think what the opinion shouldsuggest, is that the context does matter terribly, so totake some of the questions --QUESTION: Okay --MR. CLEMENT: -- that concern Justice Breyer, if I could, when he's worried about the start-up charity,well, if a start-up charity says, hi, we're a start-upcharity, but we are trying to raise money for a new cause,and here's what we hope to do with the money, that's verydifferent than if a start-up charity picks up the phoneand says, we're a start-up charity, and we're going -- ifyou give us money, we're going to help this particularchild in this foreign country.I mean, if a start-up charity avoids fraudulentstatements, then that's going to have a reasonable effect th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC on the mind of the donor, and the donor's going torecognize that, okay, a) start-up charities may havehigher cost, but more importantly, the representation thatI received was not that you were going to provide foodbaskets in DuPage County, but that you hoped to providespecial services that weren't being provided currently byany extant charity, and I think that context can make allthe difference.And there are many elements of common law fraudactions. You have to show knowledge of falsity, intent todeceive, materiality, and reasonable reliance. InIllinois, as is typical, you have to show those factors byclear and convincing evidence. All of that is going toprovide substantial breathing room for First Amendmentvalues.Indeed, much of this Court's jurisprudence inthe libel and defamation area has been a process of takingthe requirements of the common law for fraud, which weremuch more onerous, and superimposing them on the law oflibel and defamation, where things like falsity waspresumed, and damages could be presumed, upon a showing ofdefamation, and I think if you put it in that context,that all of the safeguards that this Court has carefullyconstructed over the years in the libel and defamationcontext are in place to protect the -- the First Amendment th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC rights and provide breathing room, then I think that theidea that the sky is falling is really mistaken in thesecases.And I think to the contrary, if this Court wereto suggest in a case where the reality is that not just percent is going to the professional fundraiser, butfully percent is going to something other than programservices, because VietNow only spends percent of themoney they receive on program services, if this were --Court were to suggest in this case that there's not afraud action, then it really will be open season forcharitable solicitation fraud.And I think this Court has been particularlyconcerned about broad prophylactic rules in the FirstAmendment area. This is reflected in -- in, most critically in its prior restraint doctrine, and that --that instinct is reflected in Schaumburg, Munson, andRiley, but at the same time, there's a corollaryprinciple, which specific instances of fraud can beprosecuted by the Government, and that instinct is alsoreflected in Munson, Schaumburg, and Riley, and there'ssimply nothing in the First Amendment that suggests thatcharitable solicitation fraud need go unpunished, and withrespect, I think what the Illinois Supreme Court did herein creating a broad prophylactic immunity for charitable th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC solicitation from the law of fraud is just as unjustifiedas the broad prophylactic rules limiting charitablesolicitation that this Court struck down in Schaumburg,Munson, and Riley.If there are no further questions --QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. Clement.Mr. Copilevitz, we'll hear from you.ORAL ARGUMENT OF M. ERROL COPILEVITZON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTSMR. COPILEVITZ: Mr. Chief Justice, members ofthe Court:What charities spend or pay for fundraising,whether based upon a percentage or otherwise, are ameasure of the charity's judgment about how much to investin persuasion, a fully protected activity and it cannot be second-guessed. The First Amendment guarantees the rightof unpopular organizations to zealously pursue theircauses.The petitioner comes to this Court having pledone case, but having argued another case. Thepetitioner's denial of any intent to impose a costlimitation on charitable appeals, and the petitioner'sclaim that its only purpose is to combat fraud, is simplynot supported in this record. What is clear is that thepetitioner's claim is focused exclusively on the amount of th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC the respondents' fee.QUESTION: Well now, I don't read the recordquite that way, Mr. Copilevitz. The affidavit that Imentioned earlier on page , where the -- the woman saidthat she specifically asked the question and was told percent or more goes to the vets, that strikes me as astraight common law fraud action. Are you saying thatthat -- that the State is prohibited by the FirstAmendment from prosecuting that case?MR. COPILEVITZ: No, I'm not, Your Honor. WhatI'm saying is that if that violation had been pled in thiscase, we would have a different result at the IllinoisSupreme Court. Paragraph , at page of the appendix,is the paragraph that incorporates these affidavits, andthe allegation is simply that if the fee of the fundraiser had been disclosed, they would not have madecontributions.The Illinois Supreme Court specifically found,as did the Illinois appellate court and the trial court,that there were no affirmative misstatements made. Inorder for the petitioner's case to be sustained, it has tohave two legs. We know that cost alone is not anindication of fraud, so it has to have some other positivestatement.QUESTION: Well, what if -- th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC QUESTION: Why -- why is it that if -- if weassume that the donors would not have given the money hadthis statement been made, that that is not a large part ofshowing a misrepresentation, I mean, I assume peoplewouldn't buy automobiles or toasters if they knew that themanufacturer was getting percent of -- of the cost andthere was -- only percent went into raw materials, sothere's always some problems here, but let's suppose that percent, percent of the donors would not have giventhe money if they had known the facts. Isn't that thebeginnings, at least, of a misrepresentation?MR. COPILEVITZ: Well, you're dealing with thelesser of two evils. High undisclosed fundraising costsare a lesser evil than compelling a point of solicitationdisclosure of information that is inaccurate, that this Court has held is not material, and risk creating forsmaller --QUESTION: Well, why isn't it material if -- ifthe money would not have been given had the -- had thefact been disclosed?MR. COPILEVITZ: The percentage doesn't --QUESTION: That doesn't -- isn't that anotherway of saying the person is acting under a misimpression?MR. COPILEVITZ: No, because the whole conceptis built on the only return the nonprofit received is the th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC net dollars, and as this Court recognized in Riley, thereis a wide range of values that the organization receivesfrom the appeal itself.QUESTION: Mr. Copilevitz, it seems to me youhave to respond to Justice Kennedy, no, that it doesn'tconstitute fraud simply to refuse to tell somebodysomething which, if he knew, he would not have made thecontribution. I mean, perhaps someone would not have madethe contribution if they knew what an inefficient charitythis particular charity was, or knew that, you know, forthe past several years there had been a lot oforganizational problems. Does the person have to come outwith all this upon pain of being guilty of fraud?MR. COPILEVITZ: No.QUESTION: Certainly you don't have to tell someone everything which, if he knew, would make adifference. That doesn't constitute fraud.MR. COPILEVITZ: I agree.QUESTION: But if you ask a question and yougive a false answer, the two examples were given -- I wasstruck by another -- one of the affidavits' comments. This is the one at joint appendix -- . The receiptsays it's tax deductible, and now the donor asks, on beingtold that only percent went to the charity, is it?MR. COPILEVITZ: Is it tax deductible? Yes. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC QUESTION: Is the percent tax deductiblewhen percent goes to the fundraiser?MR. COPILEVITZ: That presume -- the answer toyour question is yes. The organization receives a benefitbeyond the net dollars. The purpose of the organization,and if you look at the appendix, Article of the articlesof incorporation at joint appendix says that one of theprimary purposes of this organization is to increase thecommunity awareness of the problems faced by Vietnamveterans. The contract that my client had with theVietnam veterans incorporated a part of that. Itincorporated a magazine. It incorporated an number. It incorporated distributing information.The difference between the cents on thedollar that was received and the fee is value that this organization received, so certainly the entire amount ofany contribution is tax deductible, and it's not fair orproper to say that the organization received no benefitother than the dollars.QUESTION: May I ask a question that's notentirely hypothetical? Suppose Congress, trying to get ahandle on fundraising operations that are really operatingto line the pockets of the fundraiser, rather than for thebenefit of the charity, would say, if more than percentof what is collected goes to the fundraiser, then the th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC donor will get a tax deduction only for the amount thatactually goes to the charity.In other words, taking your theory, up to percent, but saying if the fundraiser gets more than percent, then the donor will not get a deduction foreverything the donor gave, but only for the part that wentto the charity, would that be -- would that violate theFirst Amendment?MR. COPILEVITZ: Yes. An organization likeMothers Against Drunk Driving exists to advocate a changeof attitude. They could well enter into a contract thatsays, every cent you raise I am giving to you to call thatmany more people in order to -- to deliver our message, inwhich case they would have percent cost of fundraisingunder the approach of the petitioner in this case, and they would be justified, and your gifts to thatorganization would be fully deductible, as they should be,and they have the First Amendment right to spend what theybelieve --QUESTION: I'm -- I'm sorry, I don't -- that maybe the purpose of the organization, so that's for thecharitable purpose, to spread the word about drunkdriving, but the example that I gave you is, thefundraiser says, you're not a very appealing charity. Ifyou want us to raise money for you, we're going to charge th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC a great deal, and you get -- you'll get something, whereif you were doing it on your own, you'd get nothing. Inthat kind of case, not the example of MADD, where the wordabout drunk driving is being spread, but just, theeconomics of it is that the fundraiser takes percent.MR. COPILEVITZ: You presume that the contractis made at arm's length in the marketplace. Unpopularcharities have the same right to have their messagecirculated as does a popular organization.QUESTION: Well, I -- I presume that just assome charities pay too much for fundraisers, some of themmay pay too much for their corporate offices. They mayenter into exorbitant leases that they could have gottenfor half of that had they been better negotiators. Surelywe wouldn't reduce the tax deduction because some of those expenses were unreasonable. It seems to me that's simplythe way the tax deduction works. If it's an expense ofthe charity, it's an expense of the charity.MR. COPILEVITZ: And the charity may have allmanners of expense that may be relevant to one donor butnot be relevant to another.QUESTION: Mr. Copilevitz, a moment ago you saidthat in the opinion of the Supreme Court of Illinois therewas a statement that the defendants had made noaffirmative representation. I had not read the opinion th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC that way. Could you either locate it during yourargument, or if you can't, file a statement afterwardstelling us on what page of the petition for writ ofcertiorari that -- that statement appears?MR. COPILEVITZ: It appears in page of theopinion, and I quote: Further, VietNow has neverexpressed dissatisfaction with the fundraising servicesprovided by the defendants, and there is no allegationthat defendants made affirmative misstatements topotential donors.QUESTION: What about the allegation inparagraph , from through the present, in conductingtheir charitable solicitations, the donors maderepresentations which induced the donors to contributefunds for charitable purposes by representing that the funds they contributed would go to charitable purposes. Now, that doesn't say what the particular representationswere, but they had a lot of affidavits attached which did.MR. COPILEVITZ: But the affidavits wereinherently unreliable. They're -- the --QUESTION: No, no, I'm saying, in terms ofwhether there is an allegation in the complaint.MR. COPILEVITZ: It's not -- those -- thoseaffidavits are incorporated for the sole purpose ofdemonstrating that there was not a disclosure of the fee th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC paid. If those affidavits were true and correct, each oneof them would have supported an independent action inviolation of a specific statute in the Illinois CharitableAssociation Act --QUESTION: I'm not understanding.QUESTION: No.QUESTION: I thought that the question is simplywhether they've alleged that there were specificaffirmative representations, and the status, I gather fromthe SG's brief and what I've just read, is that theyallege there were representations, and then they attachedaffidavits which have in them, and there's a footnote inthe SG's brief that list the affidavits, statements as toparticular affirmative representations, and -- andtherefore, I want to know is that, if that issue isn't in the case, fine, but -- but I'm somewhat puzzled as to whyit isn't.MR. COPILEVITZ: It's not in the case. Thereare no allegations -- those would have constitutedviolations of specific sections of the statute.QUESTION: But --MR. COPILEVITZ: There was no allegation in thecomplaint. The only place they're found are in theaffidavits which are incorporated as a reference that thefee was not disclosed and, had it been, they would not th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC have given it.QUESTION: Yes, but the --MR. COPILEVITZ: That's the sole purpose of it.QUESTION: The Supreme Court of Illinois didn'tgo off on the ground that there was a separate statuteregulating solicitation, and that therefore you couldn'thave a common law fraud action in Illinois.MR. COPILEVITZ: I'm not sure I understand theChief Justice's question.QUESTION: Well, I -- I thought you weresuggesting that these allegations would have been a -- aviolation of a specific statute governing fraud, governingcharitable solicitation, but the Supreme Court of Illinoisdidn't say that because there's a statute governingsolicitation you could not bring a common law fraud action in this case. What they said was that the First Amendmentprohibits you from doing it, as I understood theiropinion.MR. COPILEVITZ: Yes, sir. What they said isthat the only allegation was that the fees were excessiveand they weren't disclosed, that there was no allegationof any affirmative misrepresentation. They did not saythat an action couldn't be brought for fraud if there wasan affirmative misrepresentation.QUESTION: This case -- th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC QUESTION: But I took the --QUESTION: This is -- this case -- something yousaid I thought was not quite right. This case went off ona motion to dismiss, so there was no trial. There was nofindings of anything and, given the liberality ofcomplaint amendments, even if you're right that theydidn't make those allegations, they surely could, so onething is to say, I thought your position was, no matterwhat they said in the complaint, this kind of operationmust be allowed to go on, not simply that they -- they --there's a defect in pleadings here, but no claim could bestated, not that these -- these pleadings didn't state aclaim.MR. COPILEVITZ: Well, maybe I'm not clear,then. What I am saying, that high fund-raising costs alone, and the failure to disclose those costs, consistentwith Schaumburg, Munson, and Riley, are not an indicationof fraud in and of themselves. The State needed two legsto stand on.They might have had the high fundraising costs,but they needed some form of misrepresentation connectedwith the use of the money, and what the Illinois SupremeCourt found, what the appellate court found, and what thetrial court found on the motion to dismiss, that thesecond leg did not exist, and therefore, the claim could th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC not stand, because to do so would have been contrary tothis Court's holdings --QUESTION: And --QUESTION: Well, why wouldn't --QUESTION: And supporting your, what you'resaying, the question presented gives us the naked questionif the percent is enough. There -- there's nothing inthe question presented that talks about these fringeissues. You're -- you're dead right on that.MR. COPILEVITZ: Thank you.QUESTION: Well, why can't -- why -- why isn'tit appropriate for us to say that the affidavits canfunction for First Amendment purposes like a bill ofparticulars, and that the Illinois Supreme Court ought toconsider that, and if, under Illinois practice, they could function as a bill of particulars, then there's nothing inour First Amendment jurisprudence that prohibits theprosecution.That leaves open the broader question, but inthis particular case, why wouldn't that at least be anappropriate response for this Court to make with respectto the affidavits?MR. COPILEVITZ: Those violations of the statuteare certainly subject to prosecution. That's not the casethat was brought by the State of Illinois. They amended th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC the complaint two times.QUESTION: No, I realize that that's not the wayit was originally brought. All I'm saying is, isn't itappropriate for us to say, if -- if we otherwise believeit, that the affidavits can function consistently with theFirst Amendment, consistently with our First Amendmentcases as a bill of particulars --MR. COPILEVITZ: The --QUESTION: -- and -- and when you get to thatparticular level, it's okay to prosecute?MR. COPILEVITZ: The Illinois Supreme Courtfound as a matter of law that those affidavits were notpart of the complaint, and this Court certainly has theauthority to --QUESTION: So just as a matter of State procedure you can't do that, is what you're saying.MR. COPILEVITZ: That's what the IllinoisSupreme Court found --QUESTION: I -- I see.MR. COPILEVITZ: -- as a matter of law.QUESTION: And they said that in this opinion,too?MR. COPILEVITZ: It's the quote that I justread, Your Honor.QUESTION: Could you give me -- th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC QUESTION: It's all there, isn't it?QUESTION: Give me the citation in thepetition -- the petition for writ of certiorari. If youcan't find it now, file it with -- file it with the Clerklater.MR. COPILEVITZ: Yes, sir.QUESTION: Could I ask you, taking it just asyou want to present it, fine, and I think -- I'm -- I'mconvinced that there are a lot of instances in whichsomebody keeping percent of the money would beperfectly consistent with a charitable purpose, but theremay also be quite a lot of instances where keeping percent of the money serves no charitable purpose, andreally, it isn't much of a charity, and there the publicis deceived.Now, is there anything wrong with prosecutingthat kind of charity, and if it turns out to be the firstinstead of the second, you could raise the claim later,after the prosecution, or during the trial, that we don'tknow what'll happen in such a circumstance?MR. COPILEVITZ: Well, my reservation inanswering the question yes is, again, you are focusedsimply on the value of the net dollars that are received.QUESTION: That -- that's correct. That'sexactly my question. I understand that there are th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC circumstances where that fact, that virtually all themoney goes to the telemarketer and little to the charity,is absolutely justified in terms of charitable purpose,but my question, which I'm repeating, is, there may bemany, many, many instances where it isn't, and so what'swrong with prosecuting those people for fraud?MR. COPILEVITZ: Well, I would -- I would referto the decision of Judge Posner in the UCC case, where wehad virtually that very set of facts, and the Solicitorfor the Internal Revenue Service proposed that, in dealingwith how would we know, the notice issue and the standard,is there would be a case-by-case analysis, and it wouldevolve, and Judge Posner, I believe correctly determinedthat that's no standard at all, and if there's nostandard, we're back to the lesser evil.QUESTION: Oh, no, there's a perfectly goodstandard, that if you're going to keep percent of themoney, you better have documents showing that you're doingit for a good, charitable reason, that's all, and thepeople who will be prosecuted are the people that can'tshow that. Now --MR. COPILEVITZ: Well --QUESTION: Now, I'm not saying that's aconstitutional standard. I'm not saying it's a State lawstandard. I don't know what standard it would be. I want th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC to get your answer.MR. COPILEVITZ: I don't believe that you canmeasure the worth of an organization based upon itsfinancial efficiency.QUESTION: Would -- would you say that the Stateof Illinois or any State could require charities every months to report the percentage of money going totelemarketers and the percentage going to the ultimatebeneficiaries in -- in direct payments and file this every months?MR. COPILEVITZ: Yes, sir, and there are someStates that do require that.QUESTION: I assume that the State AttorneyGeneral or the State Secretary of State can, indeed, closedown charities which are being used as -- as private money-making ventures. Aren't -- aren't -- isn'tthat possible?MR. COPILEVITZ: There is statutory -- yes, YourHonor, there's statutory authority --QUESTION: Not -- not through a fraud action,but through investigating the books of the charity.MR. COPILEVITZ: Yes, sir, and under section --QUESTION: The thing I don't understand, though,is the difference between good charities and bad charitiesdoesn't seem to me to have a particle to do with the th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC question of whether the State was a -- was amisrepresentation or not. You can get percent from agood charity, and percent from a bad charity and keepit, but the statement to the public is equally misleadingin either case. I mean, maybe that's not enough, butmaybe it is.MR. COPILEVITZ: Well --QUESTION: I don't see how the character of thecharity has any bearing on the -- on the kind of --whether there's fraud or not.MR. COPILEVITZ: I would agree, and I wouldpoint to the petitioner's reply brief at the footnotereferring to the brief that was filed by Disabled AmericanVeterans, explaining the problem of donor acquisitionmailings, that it can cost $ or more to acquire $, and that that should be something that the petitioner shouldgive deference to, and in footnote of the petitioner'sreply, they took exactly the opposite position and saidthe fact that it was donor acquisition mailings, trying toacquire new donors, was not a reason to set aside theprinciples that they've enunciated in their complaint.QUESTION: Let make -- let's make an assumptionthat percent of the donors in the case of your client'scharity would not have given the money had they known ofthe amount being kept by the telemarketers. Is there th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC anything the State can do to protect the people of -- ofthe State from having -- from parting with their moneyunder those circumstances?MR. COPILEVITZ: Yes, sir. The State ofIllinois has a series of -- of disclosure requirements.They're content-based, neutral disclosures. You must,before you ask for a donation in Illinois, if you're acompensated professional fundraiser, disclose yourprofessional status.You must also disclose that you can obtaincopies of financial records for the organization from theOffice of the Attorney General.You must also answer, if asked, what your feeis. You must disclose it.You must disclose, if asked, what portion of the monies will go to the charitable organization.You must disclose the primary purpose of, thecharitable purpose of the organization.The State of Illinois can publish reports, theState of Illinois maintains a web site. There are numbers. There are -- there is a requirement that, priorto anyone parting with consideration, in the mail piecethat is sent, when you are sitting in the privacy of yourown home, having made simply a pledge in the mail, inwriting, there is a disclosure that you can obtain copies th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC of the financial information. There is a disclosure --QUESTION: You can -- you said many times youcan ask, you can obtain. It seems that, then, thesophisticated person is protected, the sophisticatedperson will ask, but the person who isn't, who doesn'tknow, I mean, your -- your position is, it's okay, ifasked, must tell, but if doesn't ask, then it's againstthe First Amendment to require a statement of how muchgoes to the fundraising?MR. COPILEVITZ: Yes, Your Honor, because it'sthe breathing space of New York Times versus Sullivan andRiley and Schaumburg and Munson that we require. It's thelesser of two evils. A compelled point of solicitationdisclosure will disproportionately adversely affectsmaller, newer, and less popular charities.QUESTION: And disproportionately affect donorswho are unsophisticated, because those are the ones, byand large, that don't ask.MR. COPILEVITZ: I would point to the concurringopinion written by Justice Scalia in the Riley case thatthe -- that it's the normal presumption of people tobelieve that someone is being compensated. They know whenthey get something in the mail that you had to pay for thestamps, you had to pay for the printing.You have in Illinois a step further, the th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC disclosure of the professional status and the informationbefore you part with any consideration how you can obtainall the information if cost --QUESTION: Is it -- is it --MR. COPILEVITZ: Excuse me.QUESTION: In looking at this picture of thisfundraiser, one of the things that was alleged, it seemedto me, is odd. It said that the fundraiser does not givethe names of the donor to the charity, to VietNow. Inother words, the fundraiser keeps the donor list itself,and it seems if it were in business to collect for thecharity, rather than in business to collect for itself, itwould surely give the charity the -- the names of thedonors.MR. COPILEVITZ: That's a subject of contract, and I would suggest that that's something Illinois couldaddress. There are State laws in New Hampshire andArkansas that I can recall off the top of my head thatspecifically require as a condition of a contract that thelist and the names be made available.There is nothing in this record to refer to thefact that this contract wasn't entered into at arm'slength and, in fact, the Attorney General's web site citesthe percentage of this contract as being the common amountthat professional fundraisers routinely charge, and as the th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC Court addressed in Riley, that the State's paternalisticinstinct in protecting attorneys --QUESTION: Can we go over that again? That thisis the common amount that fundraisers usually charge, percent?MR. COPILEVITZ: It can be. That -- it's on theweb site of the Attorney General, that professionalfundraiser fees generally run between and percent.There's also footnoted in the brief a referenceto a report that was done that veterans groups are amongthe lowest receiving organizations because of the natureof their appeal, and Nation-wide averaged percent, andin this case they allege percent, but the reality issomething different than that. Because of the magazinesthat were published in the last contract they got $, in addition to their percentage. If no phone call hadbeen made, they would have received percent of themoney.They got the benefit of a Nationwide number. They got the benefit of , magazines. They got theopportunity to talk to nine of --QUESTION: You're arguing that it's a goodcharity, and I'll -- I'll -- we'll assume that forpurposes of the decision, that they're -- they're perfect,but it still seems to me -- th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC (Laughter.)QUESTION: -- you've raised the suggestion thatmaybe we should use the New York Times standard, and ifthat were the case, would it not be arguable that yourpeople knowingly made these statements with theunderstanding they would believe that they were literallytrue, and that there was not an over -- you know, thatthe -- that the charity was going to get a larger amountof the money.MR. COPILEVITZ: Well, Your Honor --QUESTION: It seems to me the New York Timesstandard might cut against you, in other words.MR. COPILEVITZ: Well, it -- it's for me in thebreathing space concept, but what they allege is, in thecomplaint is that they raised money for the charitable purpose. What they don't allege is that no money went tothe charitable purpose.It's a question of degrees. Again, we come backdown to what portion of the gross dollar in hard dollarswent to the program purpose.What we can't --QUESTION: No, the question is how -- how truewas the statement? What is the reasonable understandingof the person who listened to this solicitation? I thinkeverybody sort of agrees that if they knew the facts, they th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC wouldn't have given the money and, as Justice Kennedysuggests, therefore they were misled, and then the NewYork Times standard suggests to me that you knew theywould be misled, because you say it in your own brief.MR. COPILEVITZ: No, they would -- there was avalue -- the -- one of the primary program services was toraise the awareness of the plight of the Vietnam veteranand, as a result of a phone call, out of peoplecalled do not make a contribution, but the organizationgot the benefit of every one of those conversations, andmaybe next year or next month they got a bequest, or theygot a donation of a car, or they acquired a donor bydirect mail. They're only focusing on one campaign. Theydon't look at every campaign.In the footnote in the DAV, referring to them, they did not limit themselves. It can be campaign-by-campaign.QUESTION: Well, that's an argument that the percent is an incorrect figure. That's -- then I thinkthe case that's presented by the -- the certiorariposition is, assume that percent is the correct figure,then, is it -- you know, is it fraud?MR. COPILEVITZ: No, sir.QUESTION: Yes.MR. COPILEVITZ: Thank you. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. Copilevitz.Mr. Huszagh, you have minutes remaining.REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF RICHARD S. HUSZAGHON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERMR. HUSZAGH: I'd like to first correct twoclarifications in the record. In fact, the IllinoisSupreme Court never said that the affidavit should notproperly be treated as part of the complaint. They referto the affidavits, but our allegations stand on their ownwithout the need for those affidavits, which would simplybe an elaboration of the types of misrepresentations madeto donors.A second, the web site that the IllinoisAttorney General keeps does not hold up percent kept byfundraisers as the ordinary and usual thing that's regularly practiced in this area. They indicate that asanother one of several egregious examples that peopleshould be warned against, but that is not the only weaponthey should have in their arsenal against actual fraud.This case is not a claim based upon a merenondisclosure of a high fee. It is a claim based upon aparticular instance of actual deception based uponstatements made to donors that constitutemisrepresentations under the common law of fraud, notexplicit misstatements as the Illinois Supreme Court said, th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC or affirmative misstatements, not explicit lies, butmisrepresentations in the form of half-truths, and we askthis Court not to hold that half-truths areconstitutionally protected. I think the Court said asmuch in Milkovich and the Masson cases, and no differentrule is warranted here. There is that semanticdistinction.Let me point out, however, that the keyallegation in this complaint, in the body of the text atjoint appendix page , paragraph , says that the effectof representations that were made was that people weretold that a significant amount of each dollar donatedwould be paid over to VietNow, and the defendants knewthat was false because cents or less of each dollarwould be given to VietNow for its purposes.The allegation is that people were told thattheir money was going to be paid to VietNow and used tobuy food baskets, to provide job training for veterans. That is an actual representation. Whether it constitutesa misrepresentation turns upon whether it reasonably ledpeople to believe something that was false, and we ask theCourt to continue to uphold those principles in thiscontext.There is no plausible claim that in this casewhat these defendants are alleged to have done is beyond th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC the State's power to prohibit by a properly drafted law,that these circumstances are egregious, and there is alsono possible claim that -- that any law invoked here cannotbe applied against anybody.The fallback position of the defendants in thiscase is that the Court should take the draconian step ofsaying that unless there is an explicit misrepresentationof fact, not an implied one, that there should be blanketimmunity for charitable fundraisers to lead people tobelieve that their money is going to be used for specificpurposes and have no liability if that is one percenttrue. That is not something that's justified by the FirstAmendment.They have conjured up dire scenarios about allsorts of charities disappearing from the landscape simply by the type of examples that they have given for achilling effect. There is nothing in the record to showthat, and there is nothing in common experience to showthat, but what they're asking the Court is to say no, it'snot enough for as-applied claims of that variety to bebrought in other cases, but that there should be noprosecution ever. The State is categorically prohibitedfrom bringing a fraud claim in such circumstances. Thatis not a value that the First Amendment supports.The First Amendment value that's most important th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC here is the donor's right to be able to make informeddecisions.I see the light's on.CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: Thank you,Mr. Huszagh. The case is submitted.(Whereupon, at : a.m., the case in theabove-entitled matter was submitted.) th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC 