 IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XKAREN HOWSAM, ETC., Petitioners ::v. : No. -DEAN WITTER REYNOLDS, INC. :- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XWashington, D.C.Wednesday, October , The above-entitled matter came on for oralargument before the Supreme Court of the United States at: a.m.APPEARANCES:ALAN C. FRIEDBERG, ESQ., Denver, Colorado; on behalf ofthe Petitioners.MATTHEW D. ROBERTS, ESQ., Assistant to the SolicitorGeneral, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; onbehalf of the United States, as amicus curiae,supporting the Petitioners. KENNETH W. STARR, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf ofthe Respondent. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC C O N T E N T SORAL ARGUMENT OF ALAN C. FRIEDBERG, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioners MATTHEW D. ROBERTS, ESQ.On behalf of the United States, as amicus curiae, supporting the Petitioners KENNETH W. STARR, ESQ.On behalf of the Respondent PAGE th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC P R O C E E D I N G S(: a.m.)CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: We'll hear argumentnext in No. -, Karen Howsam v. Dean Witter Reynolds.Mr. Friedberg.ORAL ARGUMENT OF ALAN C. FRIEDBERGON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERSMR. FRIEDBERG: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court:There is at least a little irony in the factthat Dean Witter is the litigant here before you, about years past the time when it started with Dean Witter andByrd the -- the move toward closing the courthouse doorsto public investors and forcing them into industry-runarbitration. Dean Witter is now back here attempting toplace a hurdle in the way of the public investor whoironically at this point seeks to enforce an arbitrationagreement. The issue today before the Court is the extentto which the industry and Dean Witter may now invoke courtinvolvement to interfere with a customer's claims beforearbitration and -- and to decide whether the customer'sclaims are timely under a section of an arbitration codeproviding for a time limitation on eligibility. The issueis who decides. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC It is clear that -- that over the years apresumption has developed in favor of arbitrability wherethere is an arbitration clause in a contract. And thecases say that that presumption can only be overcome byclear and convincing evidence that the parties agreed tohave a court decide arbitrability issues within a --within the scope of an arbitration agreement. In thiscase, there is no such evidence. The arbitration clause in the agreementbetween the parties is as broad a clause as one canimagine. The client agrees that all controversies betweenher and Dean Witter concerning or arising from any accountor any transaction involving Dean Witter and the client,whether or not it occurred in the account, or theconstruction, performance, or breach of this or any otheragreement between us. It's an industry-designedarbitration clause, meant to be as broad as possible. Theintent clearly is to move cases against brokers bycustomers out of the courts and into arbitration.That -- that agreement was, of course,followed by a submission agreement signed byMs. Howsam which merely states that as an undersignedparty, she and her trust submit the present matter incontroversy, as set forth in the attached statement ofclaim, to arbitration in accordance with the Constitution, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC by-laws, rules, regulations, and/or code of arbitrationprocedure of the sponsoring organization. In this case,it's the NASD, but the -- the other self-regulatoryorganizations and exchanges have similar rules to the -year rule.QUESTION: It seems to me that some of thelanguage in First Options, which the respondent relies oncuts against your case. How -- how do you deal with that?MR. FRIEDBERG: Well, first of all, FirstOptions is a case in which there was a question aboutwhether an arbitration agreement existed, which is not thecase here. And Justice Breyer, writing for the Court,wrote that -- that in that situation, the presumptionshifts. The AT&T case -- clearly the -- when thequestion is just the scope of an arbitration agreement,but there is no question about the existence of theagreement, there needs to be clear and unmistakableevidence of an intent to have the courts decide ratherthan the arbitrators decide.QUESTION: The respondents here, of course,argue that because of the not to be submitted clause, the years, that limits the scope of the -- of thearbitration agreement.MR. FRIEDBERG: The -- the respondent, of th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC course, is -- is referring to rule , which says that-- that disputes which arose out of transactions or eventsmore than years prior are not eligible for submission toarbitration. First of all, that -- that rule is found in asection of the arbitration code. It's not found in theagreement itself. And it's found in a section of the Codeof Arbitration Procedure. QUESTION: Well, so is which you'rerelying on. That is, the arbitrator shall be empowered tointerrupt and determine the applicability of. I mean,that's --MR. FRIEDBERG: Exactly, Justice Scalia. Andthe point I was -- was trying to make is that -- that thecode has to be read as -- as one code in that -- in thatrespect. The -- it's also, I think, illuminating that the-- the section, the series of the code in which thatis found, is -- is not the eligibility section in thesense that the series is. The series is -- isbasically a procedural, instructive portion of the codefor the arbitrators to apply. There is some -- we -- we've made the argumentand -- and I think it's a valid argument -- that eligiblefor submission can mean a number of things. And -- and th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC that it refers, in this case to -- it could refer in thiscase to when the arbitrators take the case undersubmission, just as this Court takes the case undersubmission after the petition, after the briefing, afterthe arguments are made. There -- there is, of course, the need to getthe case in front of a tribunal in order to -- to decidewhether or not the case is timely. So while the rule mayprevent the case from going all the way to the end zone,it -- it certainly doesn't prevent the -- the litigantfrom or the -- the person arbitrating from -- from gettingout of the starting gate. Moreover --QUESTION: Is -- is that your criterion, that --that -- the -- on -- on the question of what -­arbitrability turns on the question, do you get in frontof the particular person or tribunal at all as opposed tohow long do you stay when you get there? In other words,if -- if it's a question of whether you get there at all,it's -- the question is arbitrability and the presumptiongoes one way. If the question is how long you stay thereif you get in front of that person, that's not anarbitrability question and the presumption goes the otherway. Is that -- that's your point. MR. FRIEDBERG: That -- that is one point, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Justice Souter. The -- the other point that -- that needs to bemade is that whether or not this is part of the code, partof an agreement, it falls within the John Wiley and MosesCone case law as opposed to the First Options holding. And in -- in John Wiley, if the Court will recall, therewere prerequisites, timeliness prerequisites, to filingfor arbitration, which the Court said, because there wasan arbitration agreement and there was no dispute aboutthat, were for the arbitrators to decide. In Moses H. Cone Hospital, there were -- therewere prerequisites of timeliness. The -- as I recall, thearbitration had to be filed within days after anopinion by an architect as to the disputed contractingclaims. And so -- and -- and the Court -- the Courtclearly said in Moses Cone that the Federal ArbitrationAct establishes as a matter of Federal law that any doubtsconcerning the scope of arbitrable issues should beresolved in favor of arbitration, whether the contractinvolves construction of the contract language itself oran allegation of waiver, delay, or a like defense toarbitrability. QUESTION: -- definition of the domain ofarbitrability? You're saying shall be eligible forsubmission just means that the arbitration forum doesn't th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC get to the merits if more than years have elapsed. But-- so you say that's not a question of arbitrability buthow the arbitrator will proceed. What is your definition of arbitrability? MR. FRIEDBERG: Justice Ginsburg, our -- ourdefinition of arbitrability I think has to be broader thanthat. But there is -- there is the merits arbitrability. There is the --QUESTION: Well, the question that doesn't go tothe arbitrator -- you're saying this one does. It's justhe has to take it up first -- or she. But we're dealingwith, if it's a question of arbitrability, the courtsdecide it. If it's not a question of arbitrability, butthe -- the range of other questions, then it's for thearbitrator. So my question is, what -- the domain for thecourt -- the question is it arbitrable is a question forthe court. What is the content of that label, arbitrable?MR. FRIEDBERG: It's a hard question for me toget my hands around, Justice Ginsburg, but there -- thereis no question that in the first instance the court has todecide whether a claim is -- is arbitrable. And -- and ifthe court finds that -- that there is an arbitrationclause that covers the merits of the dispute, then thecourt should defer to arbitrators on any question th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC regarding scope. QUESTION: Well, now --MR. FRIEDBERG: I don't think --QUESTION: -- this -- this is a contract matter.Right? I mean, if -- if the parties clearly didn't wantthe arbitrator to do this and wanted the court to do it,you -- you don't dispute that the court would do it. Right? MR. FRIEDBERG: Right. QUESTION: So it's just a question of contract.Now, you concede the point that arbitrability isfor the courts. Right? MR. FRIEDBERG: Right. QUESTION: So presumably if had read nodispute, claim, or controversy shall be arbitrable, okay,under -- under this code where years have elapsed, thatwould -- would that exclude this from -- from thearbitrator?MR. FRIEDBERG: I believe not, Justice Scalia.QUESTION: My goodness, it's using the exactterm that you concede sends it over to the -- to thecourt. MR. FRIEDBERG: Well --QUESTION: It -- what do you have to do beyondusing the -- the very word that you say bounces it to the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC court? They say it. It shall not be arbitrable. Andeven that will not -- will not get it to the courts. What-- what does one have to do to get it to the courts?MR. FRIEDBERG: Well --QUESTION: And my next question is going to be,is there a whole lot of difference between saying it shallnot be arbitrable and saying, it shall not be eligible forsubmission to arbitration? MR. FRIEDBERG: I'm not --QUESTION: And I don't think there is. MR. FRIEDBERG: I don't think there is either,Justice Scalia. QUESTION: Okay. Which is why you're fightingme so hard on this. Right? (Laughter.) MR. FRIEDBERG: Precisely. I think what we have to do is look to the caselaw, including the ATT case and -- and its progeny, andFirst Options says the same thing really, that the courthas to decide in the first instance is there anarbitration agreement. Having decided -- and in this caseit's undisputed -- that there is an arbitration agreement,then the question is, does it go to the substance of thecase or is it a matter of the scope? And the cases say,starting with the Gulf and Warrior -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: What happened to the intent of theparties?MR. FRIEDBERG: That -- that's what --QUESTION: I mean, you're talking as -- asthough this is some law being sent down from on high. Ithought we established that step one is what did theparties intend. MR. FRIEDBERG: Right. QUESTION: And you say that even if the partiessay it's not arbitrable, well, that doesn't matter. Westill go through this -- this game that seems to come downfrom on high. MR. FRIEDBERG: But the question is who willdecide a certain issue of arbitrability, and AT&T and --and Moses H. Cone and First Options even says that onceyou find that there's an agreement to arbitrate thesubstance of the -- the dispute, then the question is didthe parties, by unmistakable evidence, agree that thecourts, rather than the arbitrators, would decide thatscope issue.QUESTION: So then you're saying arbitrabilityunder our cases is not for the court necessarily.MR. FRIEDBERG: I'm saying --QUESTION: I mean, you can't have it both ways.MR. FRIEDBERG: There -- there's a -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: If you say arbitrability is for thecourts, then if the -- if the agreement between theparties says this is not arbitrable, that question of --of whether those facts exist or not ought to be for thecourts. MR. FRIEDBERG: I think that's true for thatthreshold issue, but if we get to a point where all issuesthat -- that may preclude ultimately submitting the caseto the arbitrators for determination have to be decided bythe court, then we're running afoul of John Wiley.QUESTION: I -- I didn't understand it that way. I thought the question was not what the parties intend. It's how we find out what they intend. And I thoughtwe're trying to decide between a tough burden of proofstandard on that that favors courts and where you apply noburden of proof standard or, if anything, favor thearbitration. In both instances, we're trying to find outwhat the party intended. But we assume that they intendedcourt unless there is clear and convincing evidence theywanted this arbitrable. Am I right? MR. FRIEDBERG: I think you're wrong, JusticeBreyer, although --QUESTION: Because? Then I may not have statedit correctly.MR. FRIEDBERG: I think what -- what the -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC again, what the initial issue for the Court is, did theparties agree to arbitrate the substance of the dispute.QUESTION: Yes, of course, and I thought what my opinion said was that when we're trying to decidewhether they agreed to arbitrate or not, we apply a fairlytough standard. They have to show rather clearly thatthey did. What were the -- what was the word you quoted atthe beginning from the opinion? Didn't you quote a phrasethat said on that -- in deciding whether an issue isarbitrable, we apply the standard of?MR. FRIEDBERG: I believe I quoted from theMoses H. Cone --QUESTION: Yes. I'm sorry. You go ahead.MR. FRIEDBERG: -- decision which -- which says-- which says that the presumption is in favor of thearbitrator's deciding. QUESTION: I'll get the phrase and then -- I'mnot communicating. I'm sorry. QUESTION: I -- Justice Ginsburg asked aquestion that I'm also interested in. Quite apart fromthe reference of -- in the agreement to the fact that thearbitrator shall decide this, your second argument, onyour first argument, what do you want me to say if I writethe opinion or another member of the Court writes the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC opinion in your favor? If the essence of the disputeinvolves the particular issue, then that is arbitrable andthat's for the arbitrators to decide?MR. FRIEDBERG: No. I --QUESTION: I -- I just don't know what you wantus to write. It's the same question Justice Ginsburg had.MR. FRIEDBERG: Justice Kennedy, it's basicallywhat was announced in the AT&T case when it was sent backto the court to decide who decides certain questions. TheCourt should decide in this case that where there's avalid, written agreement to arbitrate the subject matteror the merits of the dispute, particularly where thearbitration clause encompasses all controversies and theparties have not clearly and unmistakably reserved certainissues of arbitrability for a court decision and -- and Imean, within the scope as opposed to the basic dispute --the presumption in favor of arbitrability should apply,and issues relating to the scope of the arbitrationagreement are for the arbitrators. And in this case -- AT&T, when the Court sentthe case back to the lower court said, these issues arefor the arbitrators to decide unless you find unmistakableevidence that the parties agreed -- and this is the intentof the parties -- that the court would decide. I -- I would like to reserve -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: Mr. Friedberg, do you disagree withthe Government? The Government did say there are twoconsiderations. The first one you agree with obviously,whether the parties entered into a binding arbitrationagreement. And then the Government says there's a secondquestion, that is, whether the subject matter of thedispute falls within the scope of that agreement. Thoseare the two things. You seem to be saying there's onlythe one, did they agree to arbitrate.MR. FRIEDBERG: No. I'm not -- obviously I'mnot doing a very good job of expressing our position. Where the subject matter of the dispute, the merits-related issue -- as in First Options, it was the questionof whether the Kaplans owed money or not -- is within anarbitration agreement, then any ancillary type dispute asto timeliness should go to the arbitrators to --QUESTION: What -- what if I have an arbitrationagreement that says all -- all disputes arising from an --an accident on the employer's premises shall bearbitrable, and the issue is whether this accidentoccurred on the employer's premises or not? One of theparties -- or the -- the employer contends that thisinjury occurred elsewhere entirely. Who decides whetherit occurred on the premises or elsewhere? MR. FRIEDBERG: I think in the first instance th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC the court would decide that because the parties did notagree to arbitrate any claims. QUESTION: Why is that different from here? Theparties --MR. FRIEDBERG: Because --QUESTION: -- did not agree to arbitrate anyclaims that -- with -- with regard to an accident that didnot occur on different premises, but that incurred --occurred more than years before.MR. FRIEDBERG: Because --QUESTION: They didn't agree to arbitrate it. They said it shall be -- shall not be eligible forsubmission to arbitration. MR. FRIEDBERG: Because of the principle,Justice Scalia, set out in the John Wiley case and theMoses H. Cone --QUESTION: But I don't see how that principleapplies -- doesn't apply here, but applies in the otherpremises situation. I -- I just don't see any distinctionbetween the two. MR. FRIEDBERG: I -- I think because the Courthas previously said that a timeliness issue is -- is aprocedural issue. It's intertwined with -- withsubstantive issues, of course, but --QUESTION: Well, can't you make it a -- I mean, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC it's up to the parties, who are masters of theiragreement. If they want to make timeliness part of thecondition of the arbitration, surely they can do it, can'tthey? MR. FRIEDBERG: They could but they didn't inthis case.QUESTION: What you're saying, I guess, is thatif the -- if the allegation of harm falls within thesubject of the arbitration clause, everything goes to thearbitrator unless they have unmistakably said that somesubsidiary issue does not. Is that --MR. FRIEDBERG: That -- that is what ourposition is. QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. Friedberg.Mr. Roberts, we'll hear from you. ORAL ARGUMENT OF MATTHEW D. ROBERTSON BEHALF OF THE UNITED STATES,AS AMICUS CURIAE, SUPPORTING THE PETITIONERSMR. ROBERTS: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court:For two reasons the question whetherpetitioners' claims were submitted within the -year timelimit is for the arbitrators to decide. First, as this Court held nearly years ago inJohn Wiley, when the parties have agreed to submit the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC subject matter of the underlying dispute to arbitration,the question whether the dispute was presented within acontractual time limit is presumptively for thearbitrators even if the time limit is a prerequisite thatconditions the duty to arbitrate. Second, the time limit in this case is imposedby the NASD Code of Arbitration Procedure, which theparties incorporated into their agreement in full.QUESTION: What is -- what is the generalprinciple that Justice Ginsburg was asking for thatcontrols your first conclusion? MR. ROBERTS: Okay. Arbitrability is, as usedin the Court's cases, a term of art that includes twoquestions. One of those questions is whether the partiesare bound by a valid arbitration agreement and the otherquestion is whether the subject matter of their underlyingdispute is within the scope of that agreement. And by thesubject matter of their underlying dispute, what I mean iswhether they agreed to arbitrate disputes about theprimary conduct that -- that is given rise to the -- tothe underlying claim. And what the Court held in -- in John Wiley isonce the parties -- once the court has determined that theparties have agreed to arbitrate disputes arising out ofthe -- the underlying conduct that's at issue, then th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC questions about their litigation conduct and how those --how that dispute was processed after it arose -- those arepresumptively for the arbitrators to decide.QUESTION: What was the text in John Wiley &Sons? What was the language of the agreement? Did it --did the agreement say that no controversy shall beeligible for submission to arbitration? MR. ROBERTS: No, Your Honor. The -- theagreement didn't use that -- that language. It said thefailure of either party to file a grievance within thistime limitation shall be construed and be deemed to be anabandonment of the grievance. But the point --QUESTION: Why? That -- that seems to me -- letme put -- it's the same question. Let me put it to -- toyou another way. Is there any difference between yourreading of this clause, shall be -- shall not be eligiblefor submission to arbitration, and the -- the way youwould read a clause which said, no dispute, claim, orcontroversy which -- which occurred years previouslyshall be --QUESTION: Arbitrable.QUESTION: No, not arbitrable -- shall beremediable? No award shall be given for any -- for anyoccurrence prior to years. MR. ROBERTS: There -- there may be -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: Now, that -- that would be a meritsquestion, and that's what I think was at issue in -- youknow, it's a statute of limitations. MR. ROBERTS: The --QUESTION: This is not phrased as a statute.MR. ROBERTS: There may be differences, YourHonor, but -- but the -- the time limit language, theeligible for submission language, what that indicates isthat the timely submission of a claim is a prerequisite toarbitration of the merits of the claim. It doesn't sayone way or the other who decides whether that prerequisitehas been met. It doesn't say that the timeliness questionis not arbitrable. QUESTION: Of course, it says the --MR. ROBERTS: It says the underlying claim isnot arbitrable --QUESTION: Neither --MR. ROBERTS: -- if it's not timely. QUESTION: Neither does a clause which says only-- only events that occurred on the employer's premisesare arbitrable. That doesn't say --MR. ROBERTS: No.QUESTION: -- who decides that either. But --but since it is an arbitrability question, you -- youassume the court will decide. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. ROBERTS: You presume -- you presume thatbecause if the parties didn't -- didn't contemplate thatthey would arbitrate about disputes arising from the --from the underlying conduct, which that goes to, then theypresumably didn't think the arbitrators were going to haveanything to do with any questions connected with such adispute. But when they did -- no. Here -- here we know. QUESTION: They didn't think they were going toarbitrate about any matter that occurred more than yearspreviously.MR. ROBERTS: When --QUESTION: And therefore, they didn't think thearbitrator would be the one to decide whether it occurred years previously or not. MR. ROBERTS: They agreed and there's -- there'sno question about it that they agreed that disputes thatarose from petitioners' securities accounts would bewithin the -- would the kind of disputes that they wouldarbitrate. And so when this claim arose, it was withinthe scope of -- of the agreement. And the question here is not whether it's thekind of claim that the parties agreed that they mightarbitrate about. It's a question of whether a claim thatwas arbitrable when it arose has become not subject toarbitration because of the parties' litigating conduct. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC And ordinarily people -- people would assume that the --the forum that they've selected to resolve the underlyingdispute is going to resolve ancillary questions about howthe dispute has been processed and the litigating --QUESTION: There are all sorts ofcharacteristics of a claim: where it occurred, when itoccurred, the people between whom it occurred, and soforth. You -- you've given us no -- no basis fordistinguishing one of those characteristics from anotheras far as whether the court or -- or the arbitratordecides. MR. ROBERTS: I --QUESTION: I suggest that a very clear basis iswhat the parties themselves have said. When they havereferred to a particular characteristic as being non-arbitrable, it means that the question of whether thatissue -- whether that -- that fact rendering it non-arbitrable exists is a question for the courts. That --that would solve a lot of cases. And I don't know howelse you -- you -- you distinguish where from when frombetween which people. MR. ROBERTS: My -- my distinction is betweenand it's the distinction the Court drew in the John Wileycase and that the courts of appeals have followed for years except in -- in the limited context of the question th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC presented here. It's the -- the distinction that's --that's been embodied in the Uniform Arbitration Act, whichis cited on page of the reply brief. It's thedistinction between the primary conduct and whetherthere's a limit on what primary conduct is subject toarbitrability and other questions about -- aboutlitigating conduct. And the -- the rule that would focus on thelanguage of -- of the parties and parse that language tosee whether it's phrased as a limit of arbitrability, tothen decide whether the presumption in favor of courtsdeciding the question of arbitrability imposes an extralayer of complexity that doesn't -- it's not likely toreflect the -- the real intent of the parties. The -- what we're trying to figure out is notwhether the parties thought this was a question ofarbitrability, but who they intended to decide the -- whothey intended to decide the question. And the -- and whenthe underlying claim is within the scope of theiragreement, it's likely that they intended that ancillaryquestions would be decided by the party that theycommitted the underlying dispute to.But even setting that aside, here we've got.QUESTION: Here where language is not very th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC likely to reflect their intent, it's -- their languagewill --intent --MR. ROBERTS: Their language reflects theirQUESTION: It's more likely to be reflected bysome arbitrary rule that if it relates to place, yes; ifit relates to time, no.MR. ROBERTS: It reflects their intent that --that timely submission of a claim is a prerequisite toarbitration of the merits of that claim. But it doesn'treflect their intent of who is to decide whether theprerequisite is -- is met. There's -- it doesn't sayanything about that. Rule , which is also a part of the parties'agreement, does say something about that. It says thatthe arbitrator shall be empowered to interpret anddetermine the applicability of all code provisions. Andthe time limit is a code provision. The clear import ofthat, regardless of the issue that we're discussing, isthat the arbitrators are empowered to apply the timelimit.And so, even setting aside the years of lawthat's settled by John Wiley and the distinction betweenthe subject matter of the underlying dispute and -- andquestions that go to the parties' litigating conduct, the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC agreement here is clear and that --QUESTION: Mr. Roberts, are you sayingessentially the parties have an agreement to arbitrate,and that looks like very broad, any and all questions, andthen there's this code of procedure? So what the NASDcode is directed to is how, if the arbitrator hasauthority, the arbitrator is to proceed. Is thatessentially what you're saying? MR. ROBERTS: Yes. It's -- it's concerned --the -- the code is concerned with the rules of thearbitrable forum, and it makes sense that the arbitratorsare the ones to interpret and apply those rules. Andthat's confirmed by Rule . But -- but yes, the -- the question whether aclaim is timely submitted goes not to the character of theunderlying claim at the time it arose and whether claimsof that character are subject to arbitration.QUESTION: And haven't we got to take thatposition? Because otherwise we're just going to havelitigation chaos? MR. ROBERTS: Yes. That -- it's going tocompletely undermine the purpose of arbitration, YourHonor. The reason that people agree to arbitration isbecause they want cost effective and efficient disputeresolution, and moving all these questions into antecedent th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC judicial proceedings is going to delay dispute resolution. It's going to impose added costs on the parties, and it'sgoing to undermine the very reason they agreed toarbitrate. And it's -- it's -- that's another reason whyit's just not likely that that's what they intended --intended to happen. QUESTION: Mr. Roberts, am I right inunderstanding that this -year is a statute of limitationsfor the arbitration forum? MR. ROBERTS: Yes. QUESTION: Because it says nothing about if thecase were in court what the limitation would be. MR. ROBERTS: Yes. It's a forum-specific limit,and that's another reason why it makes sense that theforum that the limit applies to should be the one that --that applies it. It says that cases won't be eligible forarbitration under this code. It doesn't refer to whetherthey might be pursued in other -- in other forums or othervenues. It reinforces the -- the expectation that thearbitrators would decide it which, in any event, as Isaid, is -- you know, you can't get any clearer than arule that says that the arbitrator shall be empowered tointerpret and determine the applicability of all codeprovisions. Thank you. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. Roberts. Mr. Starr, we'll hear from you.ORAL ARGUMENT OF KENNETH W. STARRON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTMR. STARR: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice, andmay it please the Court:Let me begin with what we believe to be thefundamental point in the case. It has been mentioned inthe opening arguments, and that is, this is in factdetermined by contract. What did the parties intend?In response to the specific question posed byJustice Ginsburg, the language of AT&T we think is quitepertinent. It says arbitrability simply means whether theparties' agreement creates a duty for the parties toarbitrate the particular grievance, not whether there's anarbitration clause at that level of generality.QUESTION: But doesn't a grievance -- I mean,isn't the point of speaking of grievance just whatMr. Roberts said? The grievance has got to refer to theprimary conduct causing injury. If it is not limited tothat, in the absence of unmistakable language, then we'regoing to have a trial before every arbitration if there isany procedural or other defense that could be raised. MR. STARR: We believe, Justice Souter, that thelanguage is in fact clear, of . Let me return to th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC that.But let me go to your point with respect tolitigation chaos. QUESTION: Wait. Before you do that, do youdisagree with -- what he said the -- I thought that your-- your -- you would accept what he says, but that -- thatyour point is that the primary conduct causing the injuryunder this agreement is conduct that occurred within thelast years --MR. STARR: It is --QUESTION: -- and not conduct that occurredbefore years. MR. STARR: It is going to the issue of what didAT&T mean by the specific word grievance. What I believe is is a clear statement by the parties, leaving theFirst Options presumption aside, which works for us. Ifthere is any doubt as to who decides, the presumption isthe courts decide. But here we know, by virtue of theplain meaning of eligible for submission. When we couplethat, since this is an NASD rule -- and what we did nothear from the SEC was what did the NASD intend. What havethey said this rule, which has been --QUESTION: This is your submission argument,your -- your argument based on the -- on the wordsubmission. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. STARR: It's eligible --QUESTION: Okay.MR. STARR: -- eligible for submission. QUESTION: But submission -- I just don't seehow submission can decide this case because you can saythe -- the ultimate issue is submitted when the -- whenthe whole case goes to the arbitrator, or you can say itis submitted when the arbitrator gets beyond proceduralissues and gets down to the issue of the primary conductthat caused the injury.MR. STARR: Justice Souter --QUESTION: So I don't see how submission is --is going to be the -- the deciding factor. MR. STARR: Justice Souter, we would guide theCourt first to the word eligible for submission. Eligible-- and the NASD has described -- and we set this forth atpage of the brief -- specifically what it means in thiscontext. But eligible is a very familiar term. It isfound in rule of the Court, and what it means is ifyou're not eligible, you don't get to this podium. Youdon't go to the forum. And the parties are -- I think what isessentially dividing the parties here today is that thereis some sense that because of John Wiley & Sons, theparties cannot agree to a temporal restriction. That th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC makes no sense whatever, and indeed it's inconsistent withthe Federal Arbitration Act, Congress' policy. QUESTION: But you can agree to a temporalrestriction and still not commit yourself as to whodecides whether that restriction is true.MR. STARR: And that guides us -- you're exactlyright, and so you then go to what is that temporalrestriction, and let's analyze that temporal restriction. We believe the words --QUESTION: But if the temporal restriction thenwere phrased in terms of no relief shall be granted on aclaim arising, then it clearly would go to the arbitrator.MR. STARR: It might very well go to thearbitrator --QUESTION: But it clearly would, wouldn't it? MR. STARR: -- under -- under thosecircumstances. It all depends upon the specific language.QUESTION: So it depends on the wording of theclause.MR. STARR: Absolutely. But here, Your Honor --Justice Stevens, we know -- and I would guide the Court orrefer the Court to page where we summarize what theNASD has said this is its rule. The rule is applicablethroughout the industry. This is commonplace. This iswhat the rule means, and it is called a -- a th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC jurisdictional limitation, a -- a substantivejurisdictional limitation, and it gives the reason. QUESTION: But how -- how does the party that'sdealing with the NASD know that this is -- I mean, whyshould it be bound by what the NASD has said in othercontexts? I mean, it's not a Government organization, isit? MR. STARR: Well, Mr. Chief Justice, thesubmission agreement in -- and this is commonplace. In that submission agreement, the petitioner did, indeed,agree to submit the issue for arbitration to the NASDunder the rules. QUESTION: No, no. To one of three -- I thinkthey agreed to submit to one of -- one of three or fourdifferent arbitrators, and they happened to pick this one.And if the other arbitrator had different rules, it wouldhave had a different result. MR. STARR: But they -- they don't, and that'sthe assurance I want to give and why it's odd that the SEChas been silent on this. The SEC has had, in terms ofwhat the industry knows -- this is common practice in theindustry, this -- this rule, the eligibility rule that youcould use at a university, are you eligible for admissionto this university? Eligibility means qualified for ourjustice. Chief -- now Chief Judge Becker described in th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC PaineWebber v. Hofmann -- we quote that language at page. years ago he said, looking at the dictionary, atWebster's, it can only have one reasonable meaning, andthat is qualified for it. One doesn't get in the door. And there needs to be a gatekeeper. And it is,under this Court's presumption -- this Court's law andit's consistent with the Federal Arbitration Act as well-- it makes sense for the courts to be the gatekeeper.And I want to come, if I may, to JusticeSouter's concern about litigation chaos. To the contrary. The rule that is being suggested here ushers in all mannerof difficulties and we would describe or refer the Court,in particular -- this is in our brief -- to the EdwardJones v. Sorrells case. The Seventh Circuit had before itthe following kind of question. Eligibility claim made. No one went to court, but an eligibility defense offeredto the arbitrators. The arbitrators simply noted it.Some of these arbitrations go on for years. Literally years is not unknown in the industry. In that particular case, the arbitrators neverdecided the eligibility issue. And the NASD has said this -- we refer you topage of our brief, as well as page . There was a needfor the eligibility rule -- for that rule to be clear andfor there to be a gatekeeper. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: Well, I thought that -- that what itsays, this rule says -- one interpretation of it,plausible interpretation, is arbitrators decide theeligibility question first. Do you agree, Mr. Starr, that this -year ruleis a rule for the arbitration forum? That is, supposethis dispute now goes to court and the court says, wethink that the -year limit has not been met. Then thecustomer says, fine, court, but under New York law, thelimit, if we're in court, is years and I'm well withinthat. This is a limit, as I understand it, this -yearlimit, is for the arbitration forum only, not for thedispute.MR. STARR: That is correct. But the issue iswho then decides whether this forum -- who is thegatekeeper? That's what's before you. QUESTION: That's now -- now, that's my puzzlebecause isn't it odd that a limitation period that appliesonly in the arbitration forum is then decided by a courtwhere the court would have a different limitation? MR. STARR: Not -- not at all because if thereis a different limitation -- and, indeed, draws thevery distinction between the eligibility requirement toget in the door of arbitration as opposed to a statute oflimitation which might vary. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Now, the -year limitation -- the eligibilityrule -- and we would guide the Court back to the meaningof the word eligible for submission. We think that'sclear, but we think it's clear for the reasons Chief JudgeBecker said. But we would again refer the Court to whatthe NASD has said. It is a substantive jurisdictional --QUESTION: It said more than that. I mean, itsaid -- you quote it on page . It said -- and this -- Iwanted to ask you how that got into the Federal Register. It said, the courts determine the scope of the agreementto arbitrate, including whether a matter is eligible forarbitration on subject matter, timeliness, or othergrounds. And that's the NASD in the Federal -- what's itdoing in the Federal Register? MR. STARR: Yes. The self-regulatoryorganization, which is what the NASD and the exchangesare, submit their proposed rules to the SEC which couldchange this at the stroke of a pen. It has not done sofor lo these years while these issues have beenlanguishing in -- in the courts.QUESTION: I -- I would like to get back to thequestion --MR. STARR: Yes.QUESTION: Well, why is these interpretationsthat are not part of the agreement that the respondent or th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC the petitioner here signed -- why are they binding on thepetitioner? MR. STARR: Because she agreed in the submissionagreement to be bound by arbitration under the code ofprocedure. It's an express agreement by her which shesigned, which goes back to paragraph --QUESTION: Well, so we're just talking here,when you say the NASD has said, this is incorporated inthe code of procedure which she agreed to be bound by?MR. STARR: No. QUESTION: Okay. I thought -- I thought yousaid something else. MR. STARR: What I tried to say is that the NASDhas described the reasons for the rule to which sheagrees.QUESTION: Well, why should that bind her?MR. STARR: It binds her only in the sense of ithelps the Court understand what the background of the ruleis. She is bound the rule. We are now moving to whatdoes the rule mean and what's the purpose of the rule. Wethink, Mr. Chief --QUESTION: Well, supposing I enter into acontract with Sears and, say, I'll pay $ for something,and then Sears has a publication which says, you know,here's the warranty and, okay, you get the warranty. And th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC then Sears puts out a magazine and says, what we reallymean in this warranty is A, B, C. Now, certainly thatdoesn't affect the terms -- how you interpret the terms ofthe warranty. MR. STARR: There may very well be, under thosecircumstances, an issue of whether there was a contract. The other side doesn't dispute that there is acontract and that the NASD rule is a part of the contract.QUESTION: But it's the NASD's interpretation ofthe rule. I mean, if you have a private entity expressinga view as to what the contract means, I just don't thinkit binds the other side. MR. STARR: I'm not suggesting bindingauthority. I'm suggesting that illumination is providedby the NASD's explanation, which also goes to the purpose. Why is this? Is this simply an arbitrary rule? No. Itis a rule that is borne of experience of the entireindustry --QUESTION: But, Dr. Starr, can I ask you aquestion about the meaning of the rule? It may not reallybe germane to this ques -- but I've been puzzled. Supposing you had a case in which the conduct occurred years ago and it was fraudulently concealed until yearbefore the arbitration is requested. Would that bearbitrable or not? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. STARR: Well, there would be an issue thatthe Court would then analyze what is the occurrence orevent.QUESTION: Well, I'm talking about theoccurrence is years ago. MR. STARR: And -- and in terms of purchase orsale of security, it might very well that that would notbe arbitrable in this industry because of the occurrenceor event. There are also, as the Court knows, statutes ofrepose in the statute of limitation -- in -- in theFederal securities context as well. But the point is the --QUESTION: So this is an absolute rule withoutany tolling provision.MR. STARR: That's correct. It -- it is aabsolute eligibility rule that simply tells the person --and again, there's no choice here in the sense of if shehad gone to the New York Stock Exchange or the AmericanStock Exchange because the rule is exactly the same.QUESTION: But I'd -- I'd like you to go back towhat I thought was the key question, Justice Ginsburg'sinitial question. What is this term arbitrability?That the context -- I've gotten not to ananswer, but I've gotten to a beginning with First Options. First Options says that the question of whether you agreed th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC to arbitration is basically a matter of intent and applyState law. That's the basic rule. Then there's a subsidiary rule. The subsidiaryis, but if what you're interested in is whether theparties agreed to arbitrate the question of arbitrability-- see Justice Ginsburg says what is that -- at subsidiaryrule, what you do is assume that silence means no becauseonly if it's clear and unmistakable. Then First Options goes on to say we'll give youa couple of examples. An example whether or not aparticular merits-related dispute is arbitrable because itwas within the scope of a valid arbitration agreement,that is not a question of arbitrability. Why not? Because the parties, after all, have a contract forarbitrability. They thought about the question ofarbitrability. It won't -- it -- it's all very likelythat they wanted this whole thing to be arbitrable. Andthen they give you an example of where it is, where thereis no contract, where there is nothing, where the partiesnever thought about arbitration, in all likelihood. Now, with those examples, it seems to me thatwe're honing in on but we don't have yet an answer to thequestion Justice Ginsburg asked. Well, if there's acontract and it's a thing they likely thought about andit's sort of a minor subsidiary thing and, after all, it's th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC something that the arbitrator knows about and courtsdon't, that would all say it's not about arbitrability inthe sense of requiring a special presumption. But ifthere's nothing at all in writing, if it's somethingcourts know about, there is. All right. That's where I am. That doesn'thelp you because I think in this case, yours would fall inthe first category. But, nonetheless, I'd appreciate aresponse because I -- I need my thinking developed onthis.MR. STARR: Justice Breyer, I believe that thequestion of arbitrability, the duty, and who decides thatquestion is guided by the -- is determined by the intentof the parties. QUESTION: And we agree with that. MR. STARR: We now look to the contract. There's some discussion as what does the contract include. The parties have been in agreement that the contractincludes the rules, including . That is the mostspecific and targeted provision, that we then go to thatrule, and we say, what is the parties' intent with respectto whether this issue is eligible -- this matter, dispute,claim, or controversy shall be eligible for submission. It does not say specifically the courts are going todecide that. Right? But the First Options presumption, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC since the language is not clear that the court shalldecide it, is that that is the baseline. That is, infact, the default position unless, indeed, the partieshave clearly and unmistakably provided that that is anissue for the arbitrator.QUESTION: Which brings you to .MR. STARR: And is, in fact, a broadlyworded provision that says on its face that thearbitrators are empowered to decide, to interpret, and thelike, the provisions of the code.Several points. The first is this is a verygeneral, as opposed to a quite specific, provision, andwhen we then analyze it, and we analyze it in the contextof the remainder of the code -- and I would guide theCourt especially to rule -- or section that saysarbitrators shall be appointed --QUESTION: Where do we find that in your brief?MR. STARR: is at page --QUESTION: Thank you. MR. STARR: -- of the brief, Mr. Chief Justice.And that's . And then at the bottomparagraph, says that arbitrators shall be appointedby whom? The director of arbitration only for cases thatshall be eligible for submission under the code. In otherwords, when we take the code and we look at various th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC provisions -- and we refer the Court to our footnote onpage of our brief where we identify, Justice Kennedy, anumber of provisions of the code that cannot, in reason,be interpreted by the arbitrators. The powers of thedirector of arbitration, by way of example. We enumeratesix examples. I think they're more like , but when onegoes through the entire Code of Arbitration Procedure, onewill see a number of provisions that the arbitrators justwill not have occasion --QUESTION: But are not -- but that those --those provisions are not ones that the court decideseither.And I'd like you, Mr. Starr, to tell me why I'mwrong, because I take it from your argument you would sayI'm wrong, in saying we have an agreement to arbitratesigned by the broker and the customer. That seems to beas broad as you can get. And then we have a code ofprocedure which says, if you are going to use the NASDauspices, these are the procedural rules, includingstatute of limitations, which you should decide up frontand not after you've decided the merits. Limitationsfirst, then merits. If I think of this as the agreementis the agreement to arbitrate and sets what's arbitrable,then the code of procedure is how you proceed in thearbitration forum. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC What is wrong with that division?MR. STARR: Because it is building in aprocedural versus subject matter distinction, a sort ofway of looking at the code as opposed to determining --and you used the term, Justice Ginsburg, statute oflimitations. This is not a statute of limitations. Wewould guide the Court again -- refer the Court to thesecond sentence of which draws the distinction --this also goes back to Justice Kennedy's question -- thatwith respect to this -- the first sentence tells us, years eligible for submission. It's not eligible forsubmission --QUESTION: Mr. Starr, can I interrupt? MR. STARR: Yes. QUESTION: Supposing the -- the claimant files apiece of paper saying the events occurred years and months ago, and the -- a company comes in and files apiece of paper and says, no, they occurred years and month ago. It depends on how you interpret it. Who'sgoing to decide which is right? MR. STARR: That would be a question of -- forthe court. It's a question of arbitrability.QUESTION: So just filing a defensive pleadingwould oust the arbitrator of jurisdiction --MR. STARR: Oh. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: -- even though the claim itself saidit was years. MR. STARR: No. Under the -- I'm sorry. Ifyou're suggesting that -- and this is the Sorrellsexample. The -- at -- there, there has been, in effect,an agreement, as it were, to allow the arbitrators to takethat first cut which comes back to Justice Kennedy's rule. They can, if the parties agree, make the eligibilitydetermination, but if they make it wrong, that's Sorrells. If -- if the evidence is it's months --QUESTION: Well, so -- so in my hypothetical --MR. STARR: Yes. QUESTION: -- it would be the arbitrator'sinitial task to resolve the question of fact. MR. STARR: Only under the circumstances that --I want to be very clear. The issue of eligibility is, infact, a question of arbitrability and it's presumptive --it is for the courts to decide absent clear and convincingevidence.QUESTION: So then am I correct --MR. STARR: But --QUESTION: -- that if the -- if the claimantfiles a claim saying it happened years ago, and thecompany files an answer saying, no, it happened -and-a-half years ago, they would immediately refer that to the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC court? MR. STARR: Well, you're suggesting a proceduralissue, namely, filing an answer which suggests to me thatthe company has, under those circumstances, agreed for thearbitrators to decide that issue. QUESTION: Why? Why? The whole reason forfiling the answer is to get it out of the arbitration.MR. STARR: No, I'm sorry. QUESTION: That's why you file. Go ahead. MR. STARR: You can, under those circumstances,say the arbitrators -- I will allow the arbitrators totake this initial cut at that.QUESTION: But you can, but what if you don'tsay that? What if you say, I am saying it was years and month and for that reason this eligibility question isjurisdictional and it goes to a court?MR. STARR: Exactly. Exactly. And that'swhat --QUESTION: All right, and if that's what theysay, then they go to the court. MR. STARR: That's right. QUESTION: So all they've got to do is file apaper and we're out of arbitration and into court. Andyour theory --MR. STARR: You're -- you're in -- you're in the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC court. I was trying to respond to the specific --specific hypothetical, but the principle is yes, you go tothe court. What you would do under those circumstances isnot file an answer. You would, in fact, say you go tocourt and you go to court --QUESTION: And it's the same thing if -- if yousay that the accident occurred somewhere other than in thework place. And it --MR. STARR: There's -- it's the same principle. You're saying this is an eligible arbitration.QUESTION: All right. And -- and doesn'tthat --MR. STARR: Are you going to stand -- I'm sorry.QUESTION: No. You go ahead. MR. STARR: I was just going to say the issue isare you going to stand on your rights under the contract. In your hypothetical, they're filing an answer which isexactly what happened in Sorrells. It goes througharbitration and eventually this is -- I want to providethe Court again with the Sorrells exam --QUESTION: They make --MR. STARR: I'm sorry. QUESTION: They make their submission in amotion to dismiss, not in an answer. They say this is notproper -- suited for arbitration because the time, in th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC fact, is different. MR. STARR: You -- the point is you would filethat in court.QUESTION: Can you step back one second -- onesecond from these details you're in? Because I'm seeingit not as a matter of detail. What we're after is theparties' intent. In most places in the law, the law ofarbitration in this area is either neutral or sometimesfavorable to arbitration. But there is one exception. The one exception is where the parties may or may not haveagreed to arbitrate arbitrability. And there we,interestingly enough, use a presumption that's veryhostile to finding the intent to have the arbitratorsarbitrate arbitrability. Now, in terms of the reason for that hostility,how does that apply here? I would think, at first blush,it shouldn't apply at all. Why? Because we're talkingabout rules of an arbitration forum. And rules of anarbitration forum -- after all, they're more expert in.And moreover, the parties have agreed to go to arbitrationin a lot of circumstances anyway, so they at least knowsomething of what they're talking about. Why would wewant to apply so hostile an interpret -- hostile apresumption as to what their intent really is in this kindof an area? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. STARR: Justice Breyer, we're asking you notto apply a presumption at all. We want you to follow theintent of the parties --QUESTION: Oh, well, fine. If no exception --if no -- if -- if that's really what you mean, then you donot mean that there has to be clear and unmistakableevidence. What I mean by my assumption is these words,clear and unmistakable evidence, because once we're out ofthat box, then I think we're right into what JusticeKennedy said and that's the end of the case. But, I mean,it's only those words, clear and unmistakable, that helpyou, and that's what I mean by the hostile presumption.MR. STARR: But again, the presumption and theanalysis in First Options goes to where, in fact, theparties have not spoken to this issue. We believe theparties have spoken to the issue through the NASD rulesfor the reasons that we have stated, and that is, it's notthat we're seeking to build in some new presumption. Tothe contrary, we're suggesting --QUESTION: No, I know. But would you agree --you want it clear and unmistakable or not? Is that thestandard or not? MR. STARR: That's the standard with respect to-- the First Options presumption works for us. What we'rerelying on is the intent of the parties as articulated in th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC the rules, and again, the NASD has said, here's the reasonfor the rule.QUESTION: Can I -- can I ask you about therules, about in particular which deals with theinterpretation of provisions of code? MR. STARR: Yes. QUESTION: I assume your -- the -- the otherside says that -- that that provision gives the arbitratorthe power to decide whether years have elapsed or not. If it did that, I suppose it would also give thearbitrator the power to decide whether the injury was onethat occurred in the work place; that is, whether thesubject matter was also --MR. STARR: The same logic applies.QUESTION: I don't see how you could limit it tothe one and -- and not apply it to the other, could you?MR. STARR: I don't think that they could. QUESTION: Shall be empowered to -- so how doyou read it? Shall be empowered to interpret anddetermine the applicability of all provisions. How do youread it? Meaning what? Once he has -- once he hasjurisdiction. MR. STARR: Once the arbitrator has juris --QUESTION: Within the scope of --MR. STARR: -- arbitrators have jurisdiction, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC they are empowered to interpret the code. But it would bepassing strange to suggest that prior to arbitration anumber of the provisions of the code precede theappointment of the arbitrators and go to the powers of thedirector of arbitration. Therefore, it makes no sense tosay that the arbitrators can by virtue of the alllanguage, which this Court has said in a variety ofcontexts, TWA, any number of contexts, to the effect thatthat breadth, if anything, raises ambiguity. I just to -- if I may respond, I believe againthe First Options presumption is the default presumption. But we would guide the Court and we rest our case on --QUESTION: So you don't think you even need it. You don't think you even need the presumption. MR. STARR: That's correct, because we think theparties' intent is clear and the NASD is clear withrespect to why this rule exists. It exists because long,stale claims, as good as the arbitration forum is -- andit's a very fine forum. It's been used in the industrysince . But it does not work for long, stale claims. You can't say let's arbitrate a claim from --QUESTION: Well, nobody is questioning the-year limitation, and the question is who decides it. And I'm still left with the anomaly that a limitation, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC applicable only in the arbitration forum, gets decided bya court. It's not a limitation on court action. It's notan all-purpose. It's not saying this -- these partieswill arbitrate -- will -- will have this dispute. Thisdispute will be dead after years. You've conceded thatthat's not so. The dispute might be alive for yearsdepending on what the State law is.Isn't it odd that -- to read a contract to saythat a rule governing only the arbitration forum and notthe court is decided by the court? MR. STARR: It's not odd in this context wherethe original agreement -- there was not, Justice Ginsburg,an agreement, in paragraph of the original clientaccess agreement, to arbitrate in some generic,undifferentiated way. It is to arbitrate under the rulesof either a self-regulatory organization or an exchange --QUESTION: But that would --QUESTION: Mr. Starr, I guess the same anomalyoccurs when -- when the dispute goes to whether theprimary conduct is covered. Isn't there the sameanomaly --MR. STARR: It's the -- it's --QUESTION: -- if the court decides it? And ifthe court decides it, the arbitration can't go forwardeven though the plaintiff may have a cause of action th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC before that court --MR. STARR: It's the --QUESTION: -- for the conduct that -- that isnot arbitrable. MR. STARR: It is the same principle in terms ofto what did the parties agree. And I think JusticeGinsburg is resisting -- I'm inferring -- resisting theidea that something that is in the code could somehow bein the contract. We would respectfully disagree and saythat will, indeed, create havoc in the securities --QUESTION: What I was saying is that there's adifference between a code of procedure that says we agreeto arbitrate and then this is the rules governing thearbitration forum when you're in arbitration. The partieshave agreed to a code of procedure for arbitration. That's how I'm reading this. MR. STARR: But, Justice Ginsburg, I would guideyou back to and its language and the term eligible. I think, with all due respect, that that interpretationdoes grave violence to the term eligible for submission. Eligible cannot mean that you go to the university andthen they said, whoops, you're now out. It cannot -- andthere needs to be a gatekeeper here --QUESTION: But it could be if you say that allthis is is a code of procedure, like the Federal rules. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. STARR: Your Honor --QUESTION: And if that's what you -- if you saywe opt for arbitration and we opt for it to proceed underthis set of procedural rules.MR. STARR: May I briefly respond? QUESTION: Very briefly.MR. STARR: Justice Ginsburg, our submission isrigorously enforce the contract. This is part of thecontract. That is what Dean Witter v. Byrd says.CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: Thank you, Mr. Starr.The case is submitted. (Whereupon, at : p.m., the case in theabove-entitled matter was submitted.) th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC 