 IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XERICK CORNELL CLAY, Petitioner ::v. : No. -UNITED STATES. :- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XWashington, D.C.Monday, January , The above-entitled matter came on for oralargument before the Supreme Court of the United States at: a.m.APPEARANCES:THOMAS C. GOLDSTEIN, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf ofthe Petitioner.MATTHEW D. ROBERTS, ESQ., Assistant to the SolicitorGeneral, Department of Justice, Washington,D.C.; on behalf of the Respondent.DAVID W. DE BRUIN, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; as amicuscuriae; invited to brief and argue as amicuscuriae in support of the judgment below. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC C O N T E N T SORAL ARGUMENT OF THOMAS C. GOLDSTEIN, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioner ORAL ARGUMENT OFMATTHEW D. ROBERTS, ESQ.On behalf of the Respondent ORAL ARGUMENT OFDAVID W. DE BRUIN, ESQ.PAGEAs amicus curiae; invited to brief and argue asamicus curiae in support of the judgment below REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OFTHOMAS C. GOLDSTEIN, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioner th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC P R O C E E D I N G S(: a.m.)CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: We'll hear argumentnext in Number -, Eric Cornell Clay versus TheUnited States.Mr. Goldstein.ORAL ARGUMENT OF THOMAS C. GOLDSTEINON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERMR. GOLDSTEIN: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice,and may it please the Court:Paragraph of section provides that,quote, a -year period of limitation shall apply to amotion under this section. The limitation period shallrun from the latest of -- and it identifies four events,the first of which is, quote, the date on which the judgment of conviction became final.Congress did not define or otherwise explicatewhen the judgment becomes final in that provision, and thequestion presented by this case is that, given that finalcan mean many different things in different contexts, whendoes it -- judgment become final here?Petitioner agrees with the clear majority ofcircuits and the United States that the judgment becomesfinal upon the conclusion of direct review or theexpiration of time for seeking such review. As applied to th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC this case, petitioner's time to seek relief began torun when his time to seek certiorari in this Courtexpired.Congress most likely intended thatinterpretation for two reasons. First, it is the one thatthis Court has consistently used in the most analogouscontext, and that is the dividing line between direct andcollateral review; and, second --QUESTION: Are you talking about now ourretroactivity cases?MR. GOLDSTEIN: Not merely retro --QUESTION: The --MR. GOLDSTEIN: Those included, Mr. ChiefJustice, but also cases like Barefoot versus Estelle,dealing with the presumption of correctness, and also Bell versus Maryland, which addresses the question of when astatute is repealed, when does that repeal affect --what -- what convictions does it affect?QUESTION: Well, those come from quite diversecontexts.MR. GOLDSTEIN: Yes, Mr. Chief Justice, and thatis, in effect, our point. Those -- most of thosecontexts, however, do deal with the dividing line betweendirect and collateral review.The amicus quite rightly points out that there th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC are other meanings of final. We do believe, however, thatthey don't -- they aren't as close as this one, and theyaren't the one that Congress most naturally looked to, andsince Congress didn't tell this Court what it meant, youwould look to the dividing line between direct andcollateral review, because that's the point of thisprovision in section .I mentioned there was a second reason that I'llcome to, and that is that the -- the minority rule doesn'twork textually and would produce anomalous results.The -- as I mentioned, the Court has picked upthe notion of final -- the judgment of conviction becomingfinal, and that language appears almost verbatim inLinkletter, in contexts like Teague, Barefoot, and Bell.QUESTION: Well, Link -- Linkletter was really a bygone era by the time Congress passed AEDPA.MR. GOLDSTEIN: Mr. Chief Justice, but I thinkthe point still would favor us. You're absolutely right,because although the Court has changed the line forretroactivity and changed the test, it has never changedthe definition of what is final, and so for years plusthe Court has consistently included the time to seekcertiorari, and that's a perfectly sensible result, as itwould be applied in this case.The -- the minority rule, by contrast, would th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC produce anomalous results. It would mean, for example,that in the couple of months after the mandate issues inthe court of appeals, a judgment of conviction would beboth final and non-final at the same time, because youwouldn't -- although the statute refers to the judgment ofconviction becoming final, you wouldn't actually know atthat point.QUESTION: I thought that their -- amicus wrote,you know, a pretty good argument on that side, and Ithought one of his better points, which is that if we'relooking at the -- the -year limitation from a person inState proceedings, what it says is, it runs from thelatest of the date on which judgment became final by theconclusion of direct review, or the expiration of time forseeking such review; and then when you look to the parallel for somebody in Federal proceedings, it says itbecomes final from the date on which the judgment ofconviction becomes final.In other words, they use the first half of thesentence, doesn't use the sentence -- the second; and in -- in the State proceeding it has two, and here it has one,and he says you have to give some meaning to thatdifference.MR. GOLDSTEIN: I understand. Justice Breyer,that is exactly what has caused the Fourth and Seventh th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Circuits to scratch their head. It's a conceivableinference. We don't dispute that.Of course, the majority of courts have appliedanother canon of construction here, and that is that whenCongress uses the same phrase in a statute, it'sinterpreted generally, absent some strong contraryindication, to have the same meaning.QUESTION: Oh, no, it doesn't, see, because youhave became final by the conclusion of direct review, andthen we have the date on which judgment of convictionbecame final, and he's saying that he would interpret itso they mean the same thing.MR. GOLDSTEIN: Ah, but he wouldn't, and here'sthe reason, and let -- let me just take you very carefullythrough this, and for anyone who wants to look it up, it's the blue brief on page would be the different statutoryprovisions. says, the limitation period shall run fromthe latest of the date on which the judgment of convictionbecame final. According to the amicus, that means thedate on which the mandate issues.(d)() says -- has the -- has that, and ithas some more, and that's your point. The limitationperiod shall run from the latest of the date on which thejudgment became final, and then he gives that -- that same th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC phrase, judgment became final, a different meaning in thesame statute. He reads that to mean either review in thisCourt, or the expiration of time to seek cert, so itdoes -- it would have actually a -- that phrase, judgmentbecame final, would have a different meaning in --QUESTION: Well, but the -- the -- thatdoesn't -- the sentence doesn't end with judgment becamefinal. It goes on to say, by the conclusion of directreview, or the expiration of the time for seeking suchreview.MR. GOLDSTEIN: That's right, so what we have,Mr. Chief Justice, is , Congress explicates a phrase. , it doesn't explicate it at all, and our --QUESTION: So you are saying that in the --within (d)(), those words are surplusage, they don't do anything, that -- the -- that would mean the samething if there were a period after "became final."MR. GOLDSTEIN: Justice Ginsburg, it is correctthat we think it would mean the same thing even if itweren't there, but it's not surplusage. It does have arole, and so I have several reasons to articulate to theCourt why there's no negative pregnant -- our view is, andthis Court has said, not every silence is pregnant. Whatwe have in is silent.My point, Justice Ginsburg, is that the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC inference that the minority of courts draw, that Congresswas doing something special in , and thereforeimpliedly didn't intend to do the same thing in , isnot correct, and I have several points.The first one goes to yours, Justice Ginsburg,and that is, it's reasonable for this Court to ask, okay,why did it put it in and it didn't put it in ? It would have been easier, obviously, if it had put it in.The reason we think they put it in is notto specify which among the Federal interpretations of"judgment becomes final" applies, but to say that it's theFederal one, not the State one.That's the real difference of force between instead of . cases come out of the State courts, and State courts define finality differently, and so whatCongress did there in was make quite clear that theywere applying the Federal rule.That was very important in particular, becauseState proceedings have the added complication of not justState direct review, but State post-conviction review, andso Federal habeas courts could be terribly confused onwhen the judgment and --QUESTION: But -- but you're going to get Statepost-conviction review in connection with Federal habeas th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC cases because of the exhaustion requirement.MR. GOLDSTEIN: Yes, Mr. Chief Justice, and thatis our point, and that is that Congress really needed todo a better -- a very good job, as -- as good as they didin AEDPA in any context, but they needed to do a good jobin telling Federal habeas cases in the -- courts in the context when the judgment of conviction became final,because if --QUESTION: Well, but you can also say that theyhad to give a special meaning of finality so that we couldrespect the processes of the States and make it clear thatthe -- all of the State procedures had to be exhausted, asthe Chief Justice indicated, because of the intrusivenature of -- of habeas jurisprudence, of habeas ordersfrom the Federal courts, and so you can read this as -- as being an exception to this general Federal rule when, infact -- that brings me to another point -- you can addressboth.I -- I had -- I had thought, as the amicus briefdoes indicate, that finality usually does mean from thedate of the issuance of the mandate, and then you go backand you toll if there's -- if there's discretionaryreview.MR. GOLDSTEIN: Justice Kennedy, this is thesecond point on the question of do -- does this Court have th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC some reason to believe that the presence in -- excuseme, but not creates a negative inference, the sortof Russello presumption, and I agree with you that itwould rest on a view that this interpretation in (d)()is unusual, and our point is that it's not unusual.You are correct that the -- the -- as they saidin Melconian, for example, that the term of art, finaljudgment, does generally mean the judgment of the districtcourt, but everyone agrees that that's not theinterpretation here. In fact, it's very clear that the --the phrase here, if I could again take you back to -- takeyou back to it in , is judgment of conviction becomesfinal. That phrase, judgment of conviction, picks upFederal Rule of Criminal Procedure .Judgment of conviction includes the conviction, the judgment of conviction and the sentence, and it is bynecessity already final and appealable. If this Courtwere to say that the baseline rule is final judgment inthe sense of a district court, that would mean in the context that, although your -- your direct appeal could besitting here in the Seventh Circuit for years, after thefirst year, you need to be back in the district court on, because the judgment of conviction would have becomefinal when it was entered by the district court, and noone thinks that's sensible. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC In fact, the -- the notes to rule of the -- ofthe rules make quite clear you're not supposed to bein on your until the direct review process is over,so that -- my point was that the -- what you're describingas the normal background rule of when a judgment ofconviction becomes final actually describes the term"final judgment," which couldn't apply here.QUESTION: When you're -- when you're appealingfrom the district court to the court of appeals, when doesthe term, final -- what does the term of final mean there,as to the district court judgment?MR. GOLDSTEIN: In this -- in -- in our view,under , Mr. Chief Justice, or --QUESTION: Yes.MR. GOLDSTEIN: It -- it does not become final, in our view. What happens is, if you did not appeal, itwould -- the judgment of conviction would become finalafter the days --QUESTION: Well, characterize for -- for us,then, your understanding of the amicus view. I thoughttheir view is that it just becomes tolled. The minuteyou -- the minute you file the appeal it becomes tolled,so there's no problem.MR. GOLDSTEIN: Well, Mr. -- Justice Kennedy,I do agree with you that that's the amicus's view. Our th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC point is that it doesn't pick up what you're describing asthe normal rule of final judgment. That wouldn't be thenormal process. Our point is that the most --QUESTION: Oh, I should think the normal ruledoes include the tolling exception that I -- that I --we've just explained.MR. GOLDSTEIN: Justice Kennedy, as a matterof -- for example, Melconian, if we go back to what thisCourt has described as the normal backgroundunderstanding, the normal background understanding is thatjust when it's entered by the district court; but if,again if I could come back to my basic point, and that is,we all agree final can mean a lot of things, and theclosest one, it seems perfectly clear, is the one thatdivides direct and collateral review, because that's what this provision does.I won't deny to you, Justice Kennedy, that itcould mean different things. But no one -- and my thirdpoint I wanted to make, Justice Ginsburg, about why youshouldn't draw negative inferences, nobody's got a goodreason. Nobody's got a reason to think that Congresswould have wanted this time to be available to Stateprisoners, but not to Federal prisoners.If I could reserve the balance of my time.QUESTION: Very well, Mr. Goldstein. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Mr. Roberts, we'll hear from you.ORAL ARGUMENT OF MATTHEW D. ROBERTSON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTMR. ROBERTS: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court:When a defendant does not petition this Courtfor certiorari on direct appeal, his judgment ofconviction becomes final within the meaning of section when the time for filing a petition expires. Thatinterpretation accords with the well-settled meaning offinal and the law of collateral review, and it sensiblyprovides Federal prisoners the same time to preparecollateral attacks as similarly situated State prisoners.QUESTION: What about an appeal from thedistrict court to the court of appeals? MR. ROBERTS: The judgment would become final ifthere -- if no appeal was filed at the time -- when thetime to file an appeal expired after the -day period.QUESTION: And yet that's contrary to a lot ofother things, is it not? I mean, you can't go into thedistrict court days after your time -- after thedistrict final judgment was entered and still maybe have more days to appeal, and the district court isn't goingto do anything.MR. ROBERTS: Well, we're talking about finality th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC for -- for a different purpose here. It's not a questionof finality for the purpose of seeking appeal, or when ajudgment -- in the term like final judgment, which is --which would be the sense of finality when, for thepurposes of deciding --QUESTION: Why -- why should those be different?MR. ROBERTS: Well, in -- in terms of -- ofcollateral review, first of all the Congress used theparticular phrase, when the judgment becomes final, thathas an established meaning in that context. Second ofall, it's logical that the time to commence collateralreview should start to run at the conclusion of directreview, which this Court has made clear includes theperiod when -- within which to seek certiorari even if apetition isn't filed, and that's, in fact, what Congress concluded in section , the parallel provision forState prisoners, and there's no persuasive reason whyCongress would have started the -- the time limitation ata different time for Federal prisoners. QUESTION: Except that -- except that they wrotethe two sections differently. That -- that certainly issomething of a reason.MR. ROBERTS: Well, that -- that -- well, I'mtalking about a -- a reason why they would have intendedthat result as opposed to a -- a canon or a textual th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC indication that there might be a difference, but even asto the textual indication --QUESTION: Well, I -- I thought they wouldintend it in order to show special respect for theprocesses of the State, so that a State has completelyexhausted all of its procedures for determining what thelaw ought to be --MR. ROBERTS: But --QUESTION: -- before they're disrupted by aFederal judgment.MR. ROBERTS: But this doesn't concern theprocesses of the State, Your Honor, it concerns reviewin -- in this Court, and this Court's made clear the --the distinction of the time is between whether the -- thetime to seek review in this Court is included or is not included, and that's not a -- a State -- a remedy, thisCourt's made clear that exhaustion of State remediesdoesn't require a petitioner to seek review in this Court,that State remedies are exhausted as long as all avenuesof review are pursued in -- in the State court system. Soconcerns about -- concerns about requiring them to gothrough the full State court system wouldn't justify thedifference in the rule, nor would generalized concernsabout comity, which would suggest that State prisonersought to have less time to seek review from their th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC convictions, if -- if anything, to upset their State courtconvictions, rather than -- than more time.And really, collateral review rules are drivenmore by finality concerns, which are equally strong in theFederal context and the State context. That's why theTeague retroactivity rules and rules of procedural defaultapply equally to both, and because finality concerns arethe same, there -- there isn't any persuasive reason whyCongress would have started the time limit at a differenttime.The negative -- the negative inference points,to address the negative inference point, there are threereasons why it would be inappropriate to draw a negativeinference from the omission of the clarifying languagehere. First, it contradicts the presumption that Congress used final in accordance with its settled meaning in thecollateral review context, which petitioner discussedearlier.QUESTION: But I -- I think, Mr. Roberts, thatas I pointed out in the question to petitioner's counsel, -- (d)() doesn't just stop with the word, final,it goes on to kind of explicate the possible -- possiblemeanings.MR. ROBERTS: Yes, it explicates the meanings,but it explicates the meanings by providing the definition th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC that is the -- is -- by providing an explication that'sconsistent with the background definition that you wouldexpect final to have, and there's a -- there are goodreasons why Congress would have -- might have wanted toexplicate the -- to explicate it more carefully in .Petitioner discussed one, which is that concerned State prisoners, and Congress might have beenconcerned that, absent clarification, courts might importthe definition of finality used by the State ofconviction, and there are varying definitions there. There's not the uniform definition that would includereview in this Court.Second, it's possible that Congress might havebeen concerned that the courts would assume that the timelimit in section starts to run the same time as the time limit in section , which also concerns Stateprisoners, State capital defendants and States subject toexpedited collateral review proceedings, and soCongress --QUESTION: Do you --MR. ROBERTS: -- may have spelled it out here.QUESTION: Do you think it makes any differencethat in Congress used the phrase, judgment ofconviction, and in (d)() it simply used the word,judgment? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. ROBERTS: No, I -- I don't think that itmakes a difference. There are variations in -- inlanguage like that.QUESTION: Well, usually variations in languagemean variations in meaning.MR. ROBERTS: Yes, Your Honor, but it'sreferring back to the judgment of the State court underwhich the person is in custody. The -- the provision(d)() is reproduced in the gray brief on page to .So where it says the date on which the judgmentbecame final, it's -- it's referring back to a -- a personwho's in custody pursuant to the judgment of a Statecourt, and that would be the judgment of the districtcourt -- I mean, of the trial court in -- in thatsituation, but fundamentally, our points are two. One, there's a background rule, and thepresumption is generally of -- of what -- when a judgmentbecomes final in the collateral review context, and it'sgenerally presumed, with good reason, that Congresslegislates against that background rule and uses the termswith their settled meaning in that context; and second, weknow Congress did that with respect to State prisoners insection because they clarified it there; and it makessense that the time limitation should run at the sametime, because there's no persuasive reason for them to run th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC at a different time.QUESTION: Mr. Roberts, refresh my recollection. Was and -- and (d)() enacted as part of thesame statute?MR. ROBERTS: They were enacted as part ofthe -- the same statute, Your Honor, but the -- theproposition that the same word has the same meaning, thesame word becomes final, has the same meaning throughoutthe statute -- same statute would apply by virtue of that. So the -- so that we would expect that when Congress said,becomes final in section -- , and when it said,became final in , both referring to a judgment of thetrial court convicting the defendant, that it -- itintended those phrases to have the same meaning.QUESTION: I wouldn't think that. I would -- Iwould think that where you say, on the one hand, where itbecomes final by (a) or (b), and elsewhere you simply say,where it becomes final --MR. ROBERTS: Right.QUESTION: -- I would think that the lattermeans, even if it becomes final in some other fashion.Now, that happens not -- that happens not tohelp the respondent here.MR. ROBERTS: Yes.QUESTION: But I -- but I do think that that's th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC the more natural --MR. ROBERTS: Well, that -- that would be onepossibility, that here it was restricted --QUESTION: Don't you think that's the morenatural --MR. ROBERTS: -- but it was broader.QUESTION: That's right, broader.MR. ROBERTS: Yes, but it's hard for me toconceive, frankly, what the broader --QUESTION: What the broader would be.MR. ROBERTS: -- understanding of finality is,Your Honor. I do think that -- that not every timethat -- that Congress uses the different language to --that's more amplified and clarifying, does that -- thatmean that --QUESTION: Not necessarily.MR. ROBERTS: -- that the words -- and the Courtdoes not generally -- does not generally apply thenegative inference, the Russello presumption to draw theconclusion that the -- that identical phrases have -- havedifferent meaning.QUESTION: Oh, if -- if you applied the Russellopresumption here, you -- you would be applying thepresumption that I just described, namely in -- in onesection, it limited it, in -- in the other section, it th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC didn't limit it at all. You'd think the latter sectionwould be broader, not narrower.MR. ROBERTS: That -- that would be --QUESTION: That's -- that's what Russello said.MR. ROBERTS: That would be parallel to Russelloand parallel to some other cases where there's beenadditional limiting language, and the Court has saidtherefore, the -- we won't read that limit into theearlier language, but in those cases also what bears noteis that the word that was limited later on, here the wordbecomes -- the phrase becomes final, was by the Court, inthose cases, given its ordinary meaning, what you wouldexpect, apart from the Russello presumption.QUESTION: Yes, but what I --MR. ROBERTS: And here --QUESTION: That gets you into the argument ofwhether there is an ordinary meaning of final.MR. ROBERTS: Yes. Yes, Your Honor, and thereisn't -- there isn't an ordinary meaning across the boardin every context, but here we have a -- a narrow contextin which Congress has acted in the collateral reviewcontext, in particular in the commencement of collateralreview, and in this Court's cases, in the collateralreview context, particularly delineating when directreview ends and collateral review begins, the Court has th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC used repeatedly, over years before enactment of AEDPA,the -- this established definition of finality, andthere's -- there's no reason why Congress would havedeparted from that here.If there are no further questions, we wouldsubmit.QUESTION: Very well, Mr. Roberts.Mr. de Bruin, we'll hear from you.ORAL ARGUMENT OF DAVID W. DE BRUIN,AMICUS CURIAE IN SUPPORT OF THE JUDGMENT BELOWMR. DE BRUIN: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court:There are four points that are dispositive ofthis case. First, the most natural and logical inferenceis that the textual language in section cannot mean exactly the same thing as the very different textuallanguage enacted at the same time in the same statute insection . Second, the text of each provision has anordinary and accepted meaning that is not, in fact, thesame. Third, there are at least three reasons whyCongress logically used a different trigger for thelimitation periods in section and , and fourth,no harmful or absurd consequences flow from adetermination that Congress did not intend these verydifferent provisions with their very different texts to th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC mean precisely the same thing, as the parties herecontend, and for these reasons, I submit the judgment ofthe court of appeals in this case is correct, and itshould be affirmed.The Russello presumption in this case isparticularly strong. Congress, in fact, used threedifferent formulations in AEDPA in identifying triggersfor time limitations under the statute, , , aswe've talked about, and also . In each of thoseformulations, enacted in the same statute at the sametime, Congress explicitly chose different words todescribe what the triggering event was and what theconsequences of subsequent events were.QUESTION: Let's -- let's review the Russellopresumption. Russello had an earlier section where the more general word was limited. What -- what was the --what was the -- the -- what was the general word involvedin that case?MR. DE BRUIN: I believe -- I have the exactlanguage, that in Russello, the -- the general was anyinterest acquired.QUESTION: Any -- any interest acquired. That'swhat the later provision said, and the earlier provisionsaid, any interest in the enterprise acquired.MR. DE BRUIN: Correct, any interest in any th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC enterprise which the defendant has established.QUESTION: Okay, and -- and what Russello saidis, where you have a limitation in the earlier one, aninterest in any enterprise, and then the later one justsays, any interest, we assume that any interest isbroader. It's not limited by, in any enterprise.Now, if you apply -- and I think that's entirelyreasonable, but if you apply that same principle here,what it comes to is that where in the early one it saysfinal by reason of (a) and (b), and in the later one, itjust says, becomes final, you would think the later onewould -- would include (a), (b), and maybe (c), (d), (e),but it certainly wouldn't be narrower than the earlierone, which is what you're insisting it is.In other words, it seems to me Russello cuts exactly against your position, rather than for it.MR. DE BRUIN: Well, I think the -- the meaningof becomes final in is, in a sense, broader, in thatthere are different conditions that can trigger when ajudgment becomes final. The -- the normal rule is thatjudgments of courts become final when the court acts, notupon the expiration of review. That finality, however,may be disrupted, or arrested by subsequent filings.QUESTION: But aren't you picking one of the twomeans of finality that's set forth in the earlier th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC provision? You're saying in the later provision it onlymeans one of those two. That's not Russello at all. That's the opposite of Russello.MR. DE BRUIN: No --QUESTION: I -- I think what you'd have to sayis, it means those two perhaps plus some others.MR. DE BRUIN: No, for two reasons. One,Congress logically can include the first phrase, theconclusion of direct review, as a means of clarifying andcontrasting its inclusion of the second or the expirationof the time for seeking such review.That is the unusual clause. Typically,judgments become final when the court acts. They're notdependent upon the expiration of the time for review forfinality to attach.QUESTION: Or on the issuance of a mandate.MR. DE BRUIN: But that is an action of thecourt, Justice Ginsburg. In other words, the point is,and the parties agree that the word final does havedifferent meanings in different contexts.QUESTION: It surely does.MR. DE BRUIN: And -- and I don't dispute that,but in this case, I think you have to look at final, andit is guided by two things. The meaning of final in is informed by the language in , where Congress th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC provided a very specific definition there that it did notemploy in .QUESTION: You seem to take only one part of thedefinition, because says, on direct review, or theexpiration, but you seem to accept that doesencompass direct review. That is, if someone actuallyfiles a petition for cert, then the finality rule wouldnot kick in.MR. DE BRUIN: Justice Ginsburg, that is notactually clear. It is not clear that Congress in intended either formulation to be the defining point inall cases. Under Rule , there was very similar languagethat triggered a time bar to -- to when the judgmentbecame final and, as interpreted by the courts there,finality was not always coextensive with the conclusion of direct review.The rule there, universally established, wasthat if a court of appeals issued its mandate and a stayof the mandate was not obtained, the -year clock underRule began to run from the date of the mandate whetheror not the defendant, not having obtained a stay,petitioned this Court for certiorari. So although thequestion is not presented in this case, it is notautomatically clear that Congress in meant either ofthe triggers that appear in , but, as this Court th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC recognized in Russello, these provisions do not need to bemutually coextensive. One can be a subset of the other.In this instance, Congress could include thewords, the conclusion of direct review, simply to provideclarity that it also wanted to include the unusual event,which was the expiration of the time for seeking suchreview.QUESTION: You would also -- what -- they --they also -- the Government gave meaning to the -- gavemeaning to the difference by saying, even if you're rightabout that, becomes final, becomes final includesexpiration of time. That's their argument.And as to the first thing, by direct review,that includes expiration of time, too. They just put itin to make sure it was not the habeas route in the States, and then they put the second clause in really to saveFederal judges from being confused about what happens inthe California Court of Appeals, what happens in the lowerinter -- intermediate State courts to make sure that --that this ordinary Federal situation was seen as applyingto cases as they wend their way up through the State courtsystem, too.MR. DE BRUIN: What is --QUESTION: I think that's -- that was -- I heardthat being given, in any case. Are you following? Was I th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC clear enough?MR. DE BRUIN: Yes, I believe.QUESTION: Yes.MR. DE BRUIN: But what is significant, JusticeBreyer, is that that argument essentially undercuts theirargument that Congress, in enacting , was using anestablished meaning of final, coming from this Court'sprecedents in their retroactivity cases.If Congress believed that the word final, asused in , standing alone, without clarification,automatically conveyed the definition this Court has usedin the retroactivity cases, that definition, as this Courtknows, applies equally to State convictions as well as toFederal convictions. In fact, that rule in Linkletter wasoriginally developed in the context of review of a State conviction. In Griffith, the Court applied that sameconcept of finality both to a State conviction and to aFederal conviction, so if Congress thought by using justthe word final, we mean, in essence, the retroactivitydefinition --QUESTION: If you -- if you --MR. DE BRUIN: -- that would have applied toboth.But conversely, if Congress was aware that thatword, final, might mean something different, then the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC obvious differences in wording here make a meaningfuldifference. means what Congress specified.The point is, there is no greater reason tobelieve that the Court's definition in the retroactivitycases applies in but not .QUESTION: Right. If -- if, in fact, you couldread it, as Justice Scalia suggested, which I think maybeyou could, or as the way the SG suggested for the sake ofargument, is there any argument that you shouldn't? I mean, it sounds simple, clear, uniform; everybody'dunderstand it. Is there any reason not to read it thatway if the language permits it?MR. DE BRUIN: I think what you have done is,you've rendered the words of section , as JusticeGinsburg pointed out, wholly superfluous. QUESTION: All right, but then you're answeringmy question, no. You're saying, there is no reason not toread it that way if you could, with the language, but thelanguage doesn't permit it.MR. DE BRUIN: I --QUESTION: That's your argument.MR. DE BRUIN: I believe that's correct. Ibelieve --QUESTION: And I take it as a no, that if it didpermit it, there isn't any good reason. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. DE BRUIN: I think Congress certainly couldhave enacted a statute that had the same trigger. I thinkthere also are significant reasons why it made sense forCongress not to use the same trigger. There are --QUESTION: It wouldn't render that languagesuperfluous if you interpreted it the way I suggested,which is that -- that finality in the second provisionincludes not just the two specifications in the first, butalso some other unnamed aspects of finality, which wedon't have to decide upon in this case, but which doesn'thelp your case.QUESTION: Well, I mean --MR. DE BRUIN: Justice Scalia, what --QUESTION: Go ahead.MR. DE BRUIN: What I think defeats that is that there isn't anything else. There isn't a broader universethat --QUESTION: If -- if you're -- if you're going tosay that , by contrast with (d)() must meansomething broader, then -- though, the broader you definefinality, the more difficult it is for a petitioner tomake his case, it seems to me -- a habeas petitioner. Ifthere are any number of different ways that a judgment canbecome final, that -- that is bad for the person seekinghabeas relief. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. DE BRUIN: I think that's right. As,Mr. Chief Justice, you recognized, the habeas -- there --there's an interest in setting the date and in a non-capital case, as these cases will be, where certiorari hasnot been sought, if claims are to be brought, have thestatute begin, the claims be filed, if relief isappropriate, relief be granted; but what I think issignificant, Justice Scalia, is that there is no broadermeaning of final that anyone has ever articulated.The -- the broadest definition that has beenidentified is that which is set forth in , theconclusion of direct review, or, what is not normallyincluded for finality, the expiration of the time forseeking the conclusion of direct review, as opposed --QUESTION: But that makes sense --QUESTION: I suppose you could answer JusticeScalia by saying that these are exceptions to the ordinary rule of finality, although the statute doesn't quite readthat way. They're -- they -- or they are specialextensions --MR. DE BRUIN: They --QUESTION: -- of the ordinary rule of finality.MR. DE BRUIN: I -- I -- they're extensions, isexactly right, but I think it is clear that finalitynormally occurs when a court acts. Here, when the court th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC of appeals issued its mandate, nothing else happened inthe case. Mr. Clay did not --QUESTION: Mr. de Bruin, I'd like to take youback to that word, mandate, because finality meansdifferent things in different contexts. The most basicfinality rule is when the district court disassociatesitself from the case, and then the case is lodged onappeal. It's final for, say, preclusion purposes at thatpoint.This Court dates from, not from the mandate inthe court of appeals, but take, for example, our rule oncert. Doesn't it run from the entry of judgment in thecourt of appeals, not from the later time when a mandateis issued?MR. DE BRUIN: Yes.QUESTION: So where do you make up the mandaterule as a general rule?MR. DE BRUIN: Well, two points. One, I believe makes clear that whatever means, it can't meanexactly the same thing as , because Congress didn'tuse those words. That still leaves the question, well,what, then, does becomes final mean in ? Does it meanwhen the court of appeals issues its judgment? Does itmean when it issues its mandate? Those questions stillneed to be answered. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: Am I right that our rules don't referto the mandate date at all, that it's always the entry ofjudgment?MR. DE BRUIN: That is correct. The -dayclock runs from the -- from the entry of judgment, not themandate, but in deciding that question, what did Congressmean by final, assuming it's not what it said in . Because it didn't say that here, the Court has to decide,is it the judgment, is it the mandate, and there is, infact, a developed body of law under, I submit, a veryanalogous situation. Under Rule , the defendant had years from final judgment to bring a claim, and thecourts had interpreted finality in that context to meanwhen the court of appeals issued its mandate.QUESTION: I think your case would be persuasive if, indeed, there was a generally understood meaning offinality, and -- and that's the part of your brief Ifocused on, and I just don't think you carry the day. I just think, as Justice Ginsburg points out, it means alot of different things. So once that's the case, all youhave to rely upon is this principle that -- that where --where a thing is said two different ways in a statute,there must be a reason. You have to give them differentmeaning. That isn't an absolute principle, and it -- ithas all sorts of exceptions. I mean, it -- it just th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC depends.For example, if you say, from the day of entryof judgment in one section of the statute, and in anothersection of the statute it reads, from the day judgment wasentered, do you really think you have to give differentmeaning to those two formulations? Of course not. It alldepends on what -- what the other factors involved are,and here --MR. DE BRUIN: I think --QUESTION: -- I don't see any other factor,unless you show that finality has a normal meaning,which -- so that the earlier provision is giving it somepeculiar meaning. That -- that would be persuasive --MR. DE BRUIN: I agree with you --QUESTION: -- but -- but I don't think you carry the day on that point.MR. DE BRUIN: I agree with you that Russellosets a presumption, it's not an automatic rule, but whatis significant in this case is not just that there's aformulation that appears essentially the same, but indifferent words. What you have is two provisions, and , that are markedly parallel. You cannot readthem, going along almost word-for-word, and then you getto this difference -- which is not a minor difference, butthere's an entire qualifying clause added -- and not be th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC struck: "Congress must have meant something different orthey would not have diverged so significantly."QUESTION: But you admit that for one part ofthat clause, Congress didn't mean any different. The --if there is a petition filed, if there is, in fact, a certpetition filed, then State and Federal prisoners gottreated alike, so it's the -- the only place, as Iunderstand it, where you're saying there's a difference iswhether the time for filing a petition counts even whenthe -- there -- no petition is filed.MR. DE BRUIN: Well, Justice Ginsburg, I don'tconcede that. I don't concede that it is true that if apetition is filed, that the clock is automaticallyarrested so that automatically the conclusion of directreview isn't counted. That's not really presented here because there was no petition, it may be Congress did notmean for either of those clauses to be in all cases thedeterminative fact under .QUESTION: So under your reading, it might bethat the judgment becomes final, the court of appealsjudgment becomes final when the mandate comes down, eventhough the petitioner has filed a cert petition. It couldmean that.MR. DE BRUIN: It could mean that, and that was,in fact, the established rule under Rule , which is a th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC very similar time mechanism, and I submit the mostappropriate context is, look at other congressionalenactments imposing time limits on the bringing of claimsafter judgment, and the rule under Rule was cert wasirrelevant unless a stay of the mandate was obtained underFederal Rule of Appellate Procedure ; and, of course,under (c) you can obtain a stay of the mandate if asubstantial question exists for the presentation of apetition for certiorari.QUESTION: Am I wrong in thinking that thegeneral understanding is that when you file a certpetition, that the finality is suspended until thatpetition is disposed of?MR. DE BRUIN: I don't believe that is a generalrule. The most analogous rule, as it existed both under the Speedy Trial Act and under Rule , was that simplypetitioning this Court for certiorari did notautomatically arrest the finality of a judgment for eitherof those two statutes: only if you got a stay of themandate. That's the whole purpose under Rule (c) forproviding for a stay of the mandate; and, of course, it'sthat rule that the simple filing of a petition, that'swhat may engender meritorious petitions, which theGovernment contends is a reason not to interpret theway the court of appeals did below. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC It makes sense, I submit, not to have a rulethat the automatic filing arrests the finality of thejudgment, and that was, in fact, the rule under Rule ,and that's the way the Speedy Trial Act has beeninterpreted, and other statutes of limitations, that thefiling for cert does not automatically trigger the -- ordisrupt the statute.QUESTION: Mr. de Bruin, I think I understandyour argument based on the different wording, but --I think this question was asked before, too: is there anyreason why Congress might want to give Federalpost-conviction petitioners less time than Statepost-conviction petitioners?MR. DE BRUIN: Yes, but first I must correctyou. Under this overall statutory scheme, I submit Federal prisoners have more time, not less, and the reasonfor that, it is wrong for the parties to argue, as theydo, that this construction of is necessary to ensureparity. There is no parity.As the Court knows from its decision in Duncanversus Walker, and just last term in Carey versus Saffold,the -year statute under applies to the preparationof two different things. It applies to the preparation ofyour State collateral petition, and then once that isfiled, but only after it's filed, there is tolling, as was th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC at issue in Duncan versus Walker and Carey versus Saffold;and then after the State petition is resolved, but notincluding certiorari, that's very clear, then you've gotto file your Federal petition. So a State inmate hasone year to do both, prepare his State collateral claim,assuming total exhaustion under Rose versus Lundy, andthen, after the State collateral petition is resolved, theFederal collateral petition.The Federal inmate, by contrast, has a full yearsimply to bring his motion. So it is not true thatonly by forcing this different language in and to mean the same thing, will you achieve parity. Thereisn't parity. Federal inmates have more time. But thereare, in any event, reasons for that difference. Again, claims coming from State court by definition must be exhausted, previously litigated claims. By definition, claims cannot be the same claims thatwere litigated on direct review. I submit it makeslogical sense for Congress to allow the State claim,previously litigated in State court, to run its fullcourse at least through cert on direct review beforestarting the statute.If this -- and I submit Teague here reallyprovides a reason. Since this Court has recognized thatif it were to issue a new rule of constitutional procedure th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC before the time expired to file for cert, and if one ofthe petitioner's State claims was litigated on directreview, it is less an affront to the State system for thisCourt to simply grant, vacate, and remand than for a lowerFederal court to take up that claim on habeas. SoCongress logically could have said that the time to beginthe statute will not run until the expiration of time forthe conclusion of direct review. There are reasons suchas that that could provide an explanation for why Congressdid what it did, which is to provide very differenttriggers in these two statutes. Fourth, it's important that there are no harmfulconsequences that follow from granting these two differentprovisions, with their very different text, differentmeanings. As I mentioned, Federal defendants will always have at least one full year from the issuance of themandate to bring their claim. As this Court hasrecognized, in a non-capital case, the defendant has nointerest in delaying the adjudication of any collateralclaims that may exist. The construction of the court ofappeals in this case is clear and easy to administer. TheFederal inmate has one year from the issuance of themandate if not --QUESTION: Well, it isn't clear on the pointthat I asked you about, because I thought that the court th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC of appeals said yes, if you actually file your petitionfor cert, then the time doesn't run until the petition isdisposed of. I thought -- you -- you said that'sambiguous, but I don't think that that's what the courtof appeals said.MR. DE BRUIN: You are correct, JusticeGinsburg. The courts of appeals have held universallythat if you petition for cert, the -year period does notbegin to run until the petition is resolved, and that ruleis not presented here. There is, in fact -- authoritygoes both ways, that subsequent filings in a differentcourt at times do arrest the finality of a prior judgment,and at times they do not.My only point was, in looking at the language of and asking whether the language there, the conclusion of direct review defeats the Russello presumption, mypoint simply is, it does not defeat it. Oneinterpretation is that Congress didn't mean either toapply here, and instead embraced a rule much like theestablished practice under Rule , but even if -- theCourt does not need to accept that to affirm the court ofappeals here.The rule logically could be that if the court ofappeals issues its mandate, the case is over in the courtof appeals. Nothing else happens, no motion to stay, no th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC petition for cert. The case is final. That's -- that'sconsistent with common understanding of the word.QUESTION: But in terms of confusing things, ifwe were to take that view of it, it would, becauseeverybody assumes, well, you file your cert petition, thenit's on hold until --MR. DE BRUIN: No, but -- I'm sorry, butcontinuing on my thought, if nothing happens, the case isfinal when the court of appeals rules. You have a year.If, however, you petition for cert, then thejudgment, the finality of the judgment is arrested, andthe one year does not begin to run until the petition isresolved. That would be perfectly permissible. In otherwords -- and that is, in fact, the construction of theSeventh Circuit, that --QUESTION: That's -- that's not quite tolling. If -- if you -- if you waited for, say, days before youfiled, does the days count again? Do you tack, or doyou get a whole new period?MR. DE BRUIN: You would get a whole new period,and that is consistent with --QUESTION: So -- so that's not quite liketolling, I think. MR. DE BRUIN: It's not tolling. Now, Congresshas provided tolling under . It has provided tolling th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC under different aspects of the statute. But no, this isnot tolling. There -- there are established rules that ajudgment is final, but yet, if you file a motion forreconsideration, for instance, the finality of thejudgment, even though it was final and the time bars wererunning, finality is arrested; and then once the petitionfor reconsideration is decided, you have a full period,again, and so Justice Ginsburg, that would be a perfectlypermissible construction, and in fact, perhaps the mostlogical construction, that if you petition for cert, thefinality of the judgment is arrested and you have a fullyear.The point is, finality will always be affectedby what the defendant does and does not do, and there willalways be a series of different rules, depending on whether a petition for cert was filed, whether an appealwas filed, and there will be different rules from State aswell as Federal.There's a whole series of different rules; butthe rule of the court of appeals in this case was, ifnothing happens after the court of appeals issues itsdecision, the judgment is final within the meaning of. That's consistent with the fact that judgmentsroutinely are final without being dependent upon theexpiration of the time for review. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC The formulation in is, in fact, unusual. Congress provided for that in , but did not providefor that in .For all these reasons, I -- I urge the Court tofind that the decision of the court of appeals is correct,the construction of the language affords the text itsnatural meaning, does not work any harmful results, andshould be affirmed.Thank you very much.QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. de Bruin, and theCourt thanks you for your help to the Court with youramicus brief in this case.MR. DE BRUIN: Thank you.QUESTION: Mr. Goldstein, you have minutesremaining.REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF THOMAS C. GOLDSTEINON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERMR. GOLDSTEIN: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice. If I could address first the question of whether or notthere is a background understanding of when a judgment ofconviction becomes final, because conceivably that wouldgive rise to the negative inference that Congress wasdoing something special in that it didn't intend in.The amicus points the Court to the pre-amendment th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Rule , and I think it's important to play out exactlywhat finality means there, because in the pre-amendmentRule , there wasn't agreement on whether or not finalityattaches upon the issuance of a mandate.QUESTION: Which set of Rule are we talkingabout?MR. GOLDSTEIN: Before the amendment,Mr. Chief Justice.QUESTION: To what set, what --MR. GOLDSTEIN: I apologize, to criminalprocedure.QUESTION: Criminal procedure.MR. GOLDSTEIN: I do apologize.Under -- before it was amended, some courts saidit was the judgment. Some courts said it was the mandate. That's discussed in the advisory committee notes to theamendment.In addition, most things under Rule , thoseother than newly discovered evidence, ran from the entryof the judgment in the district court, and perhaps mostimportant of all, it's settled under Rule , and this isthe Cook case from the Ninth Circuit that's cited in theamicus brief, that under Rule if a cert petition wasfiled, that didn't stop the time.QUESTION: Well, you say it's settled. It's th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC settled in the Ninth Circuit?MR. GOLDSTEIN: Mr. Chief Justice, there were nocontrary cases, you're quite right. This Court neverpassed on it, and there's no contrary authority.And so my point is this. Even under Rule , itcould mean a lot of different things, and I do think it'sperfectly clear that among all the analogies, the closestone is this Court's collateral review precedents.I do want to pick up on Justice Breyer's and --and the Chief Justice's question about, well, didn't theyexplicate something in that they didn't in , andif I could give a contrary -- give a hypothetical where Ithink that reasoning would apply, if said, when thejudgment of conviction becomes final by the expiration ofdirect -- by the conclusion of direct review, it would be very difficult for a petitioner to say, "and thatincludes the time for seeking cert," because then youwould have a real contrast with . You would have oneof the phrases in , but both in , and there you couldhave a genuine inference.Here we don't have anything, and my point isthat this silence is not pregnant. You don't draw theinference that Congress meant nothing at all, or thatCongress meant -- as Justice Scalia points out, an evennarrower universe. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC The final point I want to make is about --QUESTION: I thought his point was it was aneven broader universe.MR. GOLDSTEIN: Mr. Chief Justice, no, his --the amicus's point would have to be that means somesubset, or some smaller interpretation, or some shortertime.QUESTION: Well, I -- I thought you were talkingabout Justice Scalia's --MR. GOLDSTEIN: I apologize. You're quiteright. Justice Scalia's point is that look, if you usethe word by, it could either mean it's explicating things,or more naturally it means, we've picked a subset, and soyou don't have the subset here. That's Russello. Interest versus interest in an enterprise. Interest in anenterprise is a -- a smaller part of the bigger ball.The final point is about policy reasons. There really is no reason Congress would have intendedthis period of time, the time when you could have soughtcert but didn't, to be available to a State prisonerversus a -- a Federal prisoner. There's no explanationgiven by amicus that makes any sense. For example, GVRsapply only when a cert petition is filed.Thank you.CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: Thank you, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Mr. Goldstein. The case is submitted.(Whereupon, at : a.m., the case in theabove-entitled matter was submitted.) th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC 