 IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - xSECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION, :Petitioner :vs. : No. -CHARLES ZANDFORD, Defendant :: - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - xWashington, D.C.Monday, March , The above-entitled matter came on for oralargument before the Supreme Court of the United States at: a.m.APPEARANCES:MATTHEW D. ROBERTS, ESQ., Assistant to the SolicitorGeneral, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.;on behalf of the Petitioner.STEVEN H. GOLDBLATT, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalfof the Respondent. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC C O N T E N T SORAL ARGUMENT OF MATTHEW D. ROBERTS, ESQ.On behalf of Petitioner STEVEN H. GOLDBLATT, ESQ.On behalf of Respondent MATTHEW D. ROBERTS, ESQ. On behalf of PetitionerPAGE th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC P R O C E E D I N G S(: a.m.)CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: We'll hear argumentnow on No. -, Securities and Exchange Commission versus Charles Zandford. Mr. Roberts. ORAL ARGUMENT OF MATTHEW D. ROBERTSON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERMR. ROBERTS: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court. Stockbrokers like the respondent arethe critical link between the National Securities Marketsand individual investors who trust brokers to buy and sellsecurities for their benefit. Respondent betrayed that trust by selling hiscustomers' securities not for their benefit, but for asecret purpose of misappropriating the proceeds and byembezzling the proceeds as he had planned. In so doing, Respondent violated Section (b)of the Securities Exchange Act and Rule b-. Thoseprovisions prohibit the use of fraud in connection withthe purchase or sale of any security. Respondent --QUESTION: Mr. Roberts, could you clarify for mewhat the government's position is in this case? Suppose -- suppose that the broker had not, whenhe sold the stock, intended to embezzle but then he madethe sale and the sale enabled his embezzling. After th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC selling it, he conceived the scheme to embezzle. Is it the government's position that in thatsituation a (b) would still cover it? MR. ROBERTS: That embezzlement would not be inconnection with the prior sale under the theory that weare asking the Court to adopt here. But the SEC believesthat it would be a violation of (b) under a differenttheory which isn't a necessary consequence of the one --QUESTION: We don't have to agree with that torule for you --MR. ROBERTS: You don't have to agree with thatto find a violation here. QUESTION: Now, the SEC adjudications that yourely upon, what kind of a situation do they involve? Dothey all involve --MR. ROBERTS: They involve both situations, YourHonor. QUESTION: Both situations. MR. ROBERTS: Both situations. QUESTION: Does the SEC routinely audit brokers'accounts or do spot audits to ensure compliance with thetheory you are suggesting here or are they just reactivewhen they find out about a firm? MR. ROBERTS: I am not aware that they routinelyaudit the brokers. The NASD does do that and then refers th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC matters to the SEC and consults with the SEC. The SECalso would respond to complaints that they got or takeinvestigations if they had reason to believe it was calledto their attention. QUESTION: And I take it that if the NASD tellsthe SEC of the existence of a fraud, the SEC can thenrequest the United States Government to prosecute if thereis a wire fraud or --MR. ROBERTS: They could request a prosecution,Your Honor, but it's important that the SEC is the federalagency that's charged with maintaining the integrity ofthe markets and investor confidence in the markets, havedirect authority to prevent and to pursue the kind offraud that's involved here which is very -- potentiallyvery unsettling to the markets. Because since most transactions are made throughbrokers, if customers and investors can't trust theirbrokers to be executing their transactions for thecustomer's benefit rather than for the broker's benefits,the markets can't function effectively. QUESTION: Well, do you say then that any fraudby a broker in connection with a customer is actionable bythe SEC. MR. ROBERTS: That goes back to the questionthat Justice Scalia asked me, Your Honor. And under the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC theory that we are advocating here, and for the Court torule for us here, you don't need to conclude that. TheSEC does take that position. QUESTION: Does take what position? MR. ROBERTS: That any fraudulent conversion bya broker from a brokerage account is a violation of (b)because it's fraud and it's in connection with thepurchase or sale of securities; because the very purposeof the brokerage account is to buy and sell securities. And the broker has access to the customer's assets --QUESTION: That's quite a leap --MR. ROBERTS: -- for the purpose of --QUESTION: That's a leap from any case we'veever decided. MR. ROBERTS: That is beyond any case that I'maware that you have decided. But here the broker actuallyconverted the securities by means of fraudulent sales. And his deception not only caused the sales, it wasmaterial to the sales. And the sales themselves, becausethey were fraudulent, coincided with and completed thefraud. And that's very much in tune -- that's reallycontrolled by past cases of the Court. For instance inthe Bankers Life case, the Court held that corporatefiduciaries violated Section (b) when they deceived the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC corporation into believing that it would receive theproceeds of the securities that the corporation sold. QUESTION: But there were misrepresentationsabout a particular security. That didn't happen here. MR. ROBERTS: There wasn't a misrepresentationin Bankers Life about a particular security, there was amisrepresentation that the corporation would receive theproceeds. And there was that same misrepresentation here,Your Honor, only it was by way of an omission or a courseof conduct rather than an affirmative statement. Because the customers had entrusted Respondentwith the authority to trade on their behalf, with theunderstanding and the implicit representation that hewould trade on their behalf and that they would receivethe proceeds of the sales, that they would be used fortheir benefit in other trades when --QUESTION: So in this case the fraud could havebeen avoided under your theory if the broker had gotten intouch with the clients and said I'm going to sell this butI'm going to use the money for myself. That would haveturned it from fraud under (b) into theft. MR. ROBERTS: That would have turned it fromfraud into theft. It would have also been a breach of hisfiduciary duty if he went ahead and they didn't authorizehim. But just like in O'Hagan -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: But it wouldn't have been fraud. MR. ROBERTS: It wouldn't have been fraud ifthere was no deception. It's critical to a (b)eviolation that there be deception of some kind. QUESTION: Mr. Roberts, there's one point inyour reply brief that I didn't quite grasp. This actionis brought by the SEC. MR. ROBERTS: Yes. QUESTION: And it hinges on the wrong that wasdone to the customer. Could the customer bring this verylawsuit, could the customer have sued the broker for a(b) violation? MR. ROBERTS: In this circumstance, yes, thecustomer could have brought a private action against thebroker, Your Honor. That wouldn't be true in everycircumstance because the customer, a private plaintiffseeking damages has to prove elements of a violation inaddition to what the SEC must prove. A customer has to show causation of thetransaction and loss or damages to the customer. Thecustomer also has to be an actual purchaser seller. Inthe situation where there's a sale by the broker of thecustomer's securities, the purchaser-seller requirementwill be met. But there might not be the damages that are th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC necessary unless the broker follows through with hisscheme to misappropriate the proceeds of the sale. QUESTION: But this time he did. MR. ROBERTS: But he did. QUESTION: There's another curiosity in thiscase. There was a prosecution for wire fraud, therestitution sought was $,. And now the SEC is goingafter the broker for a much larger sum. Why wasn't agreater sum asked in the wire fraud case? MR. ROBERTS: I don't know, Your Honor, why therestitution award in the criminal action was limited to$,. But it's clear that Respondent, it's clear fromthe allegations in the complaint and also from thecriminal trial that Respondent did embezzle far more thanthat amount of the Woods' assets. And that's one of the reasons that it'simportant for the SEC to be able to pursue this action. Because if it had to rely on the criminal action, thenthere wouldn't be a full disgorgement of the impropergains by the broker. And there would be far lessdeterrent to this kind of activity. Of course a criminalprosecution is significant deterrent, but --QUESTION: Mr. Roberts, did the allegations ofyour complaint in this case accord with the narrowertheory that you now say is enough to decide this case? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC That is to say, as I read your description of thecomplaint, it did not say that the sales of the securitywere made with the intention at the time the sales weremade of absconding with the proceeds. All it said is thathe sold the securities and stole the funds. MR. ROBERTS: It does -- it does comport withour theory, Your Honor. It doesn't in so many wordsallege the intent at the time. But the factualallegations in the complaint necessarily give rise to thatinference. Because, first, one of the allegations is thatRespondent issued checks to himself on the mutual fundaccount and that the cashing of those checks caused thesales. And so when he took the money, he necessarily bywriting the checks to himself, he necessarily had theintent at the time. And then there are additionalallegations --QUESTION: Wait. Excuse me. He wrote thechecks before the sales were made? MR. ROBERTS: In the -- in the mutual fundchecks, if you look at Page A, of the petition, inparagraph of the complaint, it describes the beginningof the fraudulent scheme in May of , shortly after Mr.Wood was hospitalized as a result of his stroke, and notesthat between May and June , Zandford, without the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC prior knowledge or consent of Wood and Okstulski, issuedthree checks to himself totaling $,. The checks were drawn on a joint mutual fundaccount held by Wood and Okstulski outside of theirDominick account, and the funds represented therein wereobtained through the sale of mutual fund shares --QUESTION: It doesn't say they were laterobtained. It just says they were obtained. I don't seethat that says that the funds weren't there until the --until the checks were written. MR. ROBERTS: I think the way that that kind ofaccount works is that it's like a checking account withyour mutual funds. You write the check, you write thechecks on the account and the redeeming of the checkcauses the sales of the mutual funds. But regardless ofwhether it precisely states that, that's certainly areasonable inference or facts that can be proved based onthese allegations which is all that's necessary to getpast the dismissal of the complaint, Your Honor. And in addition on the other allegations on thenext page and the paragraphs on the next page, there aredescription of repeated sales and repeated conversionsover a long period of time. And, you know, one time maybehe formed the intent after the sales, although that'sunlikely given that this happened after the allegations in th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC the previous paragraph. But more times, Your Honor, Ithink that it's hard to believe. QUESTION: Who gets the recovery, Mr. Roberts? MR. ROBERTS: The recovery goes to the -- to thegovernment, but the SEC has a policy of if there areidentifiable victims to endeavor to give the victims those-- those funds and to make them whole if they areavailable. So here where there are identifiable victims,they would do that. QUESTION: Well, isn't it a little odd, you havetwo different branches of the government, perhaps notbranches, but two different proceedings, one a criminalproceeding which authorizes restitution. And in thatproceeding the decision was made that $, would beallowed, awarded in restitution. Then the SEC comes along and says, no, thatwasn't enough. We want to get, you know, several hundredthousand more. MR. ROBERTS: Well, the restitution, first ofall, the purposes of restitution and disgorgement aredifferent in that one is aimed on the -- is focused on themaking whole the loss to the -- to the people that areinjured, whereas the other is aimed at requiring thewrongdoer to disgorge any benefit that he got from thescheme. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC But in addition, Your Honor, the statuteprovides for a civil action and gives the SEC the power todo that in order to further its role in ensuring theintegrity of the markets and ensuring investor confidencein the markets. And it empowers the SEC rather than theindividual U.S. attorneys to determine when it's necessaryto ask for that kind of a remedy in order to further thosepurposes. And the SEC properly made that determination,made that determination here. QUESTION: Well, just to explore the point, isthere anything in the record to show that these victimslost only $, and that the broker just made all therest by churning --MR. ROBERTS: No. Their record I thinkestablishes that they lost everything that they hadentrusted to him which was roughly, thousands ofdollars' worth. QUESTION: Mr. Roberts, isn't it the casesometimes in criminal proceedings where restitution isordered that full restitution is not ordered for a varietyof reasons, the victim's family -- the defendant's familymay have certain needs and the Court may decide, well, I'mjust going to order a limited amount of restitution. Doesthat happen sometimes? MR. ROBERTS: Yes, that certainly happens, Your th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Honor. Thank you. QUESTION: And if the family has needs, the SECdoesn't have to worry about it, I take it? MR. ROBERTS: Well, the SEC does its ownbalancing of what's appropriate to further the interestsand it asks for a disgorgement which is an equitableremedy. And the Court takes into account those concernsin deciding whether to award it. And here the DistrictCourt did determine that it was appropriate to awarddisgorgement in the amount of $,. QUESTION: It is odd that there was no kind of,apparently no cooperation here, that the criminal casegoes on for that limited amount and then the SEC comes inafter. Don't the relevant prosecutors talk to each otherin advance about a case like this? MR. ROBERTS: Yes, they do talk to each other. But the decision, Your Honor, whether to bring theprosecution and what to charge and what to ask for is thedecision of the prosecutors, whereas the decision of whatis appropriate to pursue as a civil action in order tofurther the purposes of the securities laws is theresponsibility of the SEC. And if the two arms don't necessarily agree thatthat can all be done in a criminal proceeding, thensometimes a civil proceeding is necessary to accomplish th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC the goals and --QUESTION: The SEC is an independent regulatoryagency, isn't it? MR. ROBERTS: Yes, it is. QUESTION: So it's not within the control of thePresident? MR. ROBERTS: Um --QUESTION: So if the Justice Departmentdisagrees with the SEC, the SEC can still go off on itsown. Is that the way the scheme works in theory? MR. ROBERTS: Well, in theory, Your Honor, yes. Although here in the Supreme Court the Solicitor Generalrepresents the SEC. And in order for the SEC to comehere, the Solicitor General has to authorize the action. QUESTION: Is there any limit, if we have abroker, a licensed broker, is there any limit at all orjust any fraud by a licensed broker falls within (b)? MR. ROBERTS: Well, again, I'd like to reiteratethat to decide this case and under the theory that we areadvancing here, you don't need to reach that. But evenunder the other theory that I alluded to, there are limitsto what would be covered. For instance a broker could defraud customers byconvincing them to pursue an investment advisoryrelationship. And that would not be -- that would not th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC necessarily be covered. In addition, the broker might defraud thecustomers of assets that are outside of the brokerageaccount and that aren't securities because the broker hasdeveloped a relationship of trust with the customer. Thatwouldn't be covered under the other theory. In addition, the broker, I guess it's a similarthing, the broker could defraud the customer into makingsome other kind of investments, real estate investments,because of the relationship of trust that had developed. But the SEC has consistently taken the positionthat with regard to brokerage accounts and the brokeragerelationship that involves the purchase or sale ofsecurities and that exists for the purpose of the purchaseor sale of securities, that it is a violation when thebroker defrauds its customer. QUESTION: Suppose the -- suppose Zandford werenot a licensed broker, he just was pretending to be abroker but he wasn't at all. He went to these people andsaid, I'm a broker, give me your money; and the same thinghappened? MR. ROBERTS: That would still be -- and then he-- they gave him the money and he purchased securities andthen sold the securities? QUESTION: Yes, but he's not licensed to sell th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC any. MR. ROBERTS: That would still be a violation,Your Honor, because he would have the same fiduciaryrelationship with them by virtue of them making him theiragent for securities transactions and entrusting theirassets to him to engage in securities transactions. Andwhen he sold for the secret purpose of misappropriatingthe proceeds rather than for their benefit, and he did notdisclose that he was doing that, he would be deceivingthem in connection with the sale of securities, just asMr. Zandford did here. And that would be a violationunder these circumstances. If there are no further questions, I would liketo reserve the remainder of my time for rebuttal. QUESTION: Very well, Mr. Roberts. Mr.Goldblatt, we'll hear from you. ORAL ARGUMENT OF STEVEN H. GOLDBLATT ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERMR. GOLDBLATT: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court: We do not dispute, I don't think it can bedisputed, that this conduct obviously is covered by anynumber of laws, civil, criminal, state, federal, the rulesof this self-regulatory organization, and the Court belowrecognized that as well. But it treated the question of th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC whether or not Mr. Zandford was also liable under Section(b) as a different question requiring a specific proof. And it is that proof that the Court found wanting. In that regard, I think it's also important thatone of the pivotal factors in our theory of the case wasthat this was a discretionary account. And the SEC wasrelying on the bare facts alleged in the wire fraudindictment to prove its case. And under thosecircumstances, there was no investment decision being madeby the victims in this case. And we argued to the Court below and we submitto this Court that that's a pivotal distinction in (b)context. Because (b) deals with investment decisions. And if no one is being defrauded in the decision they aremaking as to the purchase or sale, all that leaves the SECwith in this case is the conversion of the proceeds. QUESTION: Well, the District Court grantedsummary judgment in favor of the SEC as I understand it. MR. GOLDBLATT: That's correct. QUESTION: And the Court of Appeals reversed andin effect granted summary judgment for Mr. Zandford. MR. GOLDBLATT: That's also correct. QUESTION: So you have to take the allegationsin the complaint as true at that point I think, don't you?MR. GOLDBLATT: Mr. Chief Justice, we don't th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC think so, because those allegations were not beingconsidered by the Court of Appeals. I think the SEC atvarious points has indicated in its pleadings that thefacts alleged in the indictment were the same as thecomplaint, and that may have caused part of the problem. But the only facts alluded to by the Court of Appeals asyou indicated is in effect granting summary judgment tothe non-moving party. In that regard, there's no reference at all inthe opinion of the Court of Appeals referring to any ofthe facts in the complaint. They refer to the indictment.QUESTION: Well, should there have been somereference to the facts in the complaints since they wereabout to render summary judgment against the SEC? MR. GOLDBLATT: That may well be the case. Theproblem we have with that is the question of issuepreservation. When the SEC petitioned for rehearing,ordinarily -- in the ordinary case, if you reverse anorder granting summary judgment, you obviously don't grantsummary judgment to the non-moving party; you remand forfurther proceedings. But when the SEC moved for rehearing andrehearing en banc, it did not raise the issue with theCourt as to why it had remanded with instructions todismiss. So on this record you really don't know what the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC reasoning of the Court of Appeals was. QUESTION: But wouldn't they have to, Mr.Goldblatt? This -- a complaint to be thrown out whenthere's been nothing beyond the complaint doesn't --mustn't you listen to the facts as pled in the complaint?MR. GOLDBLATT: Justice Ginsburg, my point is,is that the question that I think that is presented inthis case is whether the SEC by its own actions limiteditself to the facts asserted for purposes of summaryjudgment which were the facts in the indictment. Now, if the Court of Appeals is operating underthe assumption that that was their case, it could, if thatwas their case and it was clear that was what it had toconsider, if it concluded those facts were insufficient asa matter of law, that would be the only rationale in lightof its opinion which only considered the facts in theindictment. QUESTION: But the government's petition heresets forth some facts. The stockbroker sells hiscustomers for his own benefit. And so it -- and in yourbrief in opposition you didn't challenge that question,did you? MR. GOLDBLATT: Yes, I did. QUESTION: You did? What did you say? MR. GOLDBLATT: I challenged the -- in our brief th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC in opposition, we challenged any consideration of anyfacts beyond the indictment, that any issue with regard tofacts in the complaint were not before the Court ofAppeals and were not relied on by the SEC. QUESTION: But that just seems weird in a way. I mean, this is a civil action. And to insist that it betried on the facts and an indictment in the criminal caseas opposed to as alleged in a complaint in this very caseseems odd. MR. GOLDBLATT: I absolutely agree. But thequestion is not so much whether that was of the making ofthe Court of Appeals or whether that was of the making ofthe SEC. And I think it was the Court's understandingthat that was the SEC's position, that they were narrowingthemselves to the indictment, and that's what the Courtconsidered. But regardless, even with the facts, I mean, ifI'm wrong on that, regardless of the facts even with thefacts that the SEC relies on from the complaint, youessentially have the same problem. And again, it's not a question of whether thisconduct is covered. It's covered under the broker rules. But for purposes of (b) as the SEC now concedes, thiswould also affect private actions. And in that regard, these facts simply do not th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC meet the paradigm for a (b) violation which is eitherthat somebody is duped into buying or selling a security,a particular security, because that's the paradigm for thestatute, or in limited circumstances such as a case likeO'Hagan, where it affects market integrity, the Court hasalso found liability. But that's in a situation --QUESTION: Suppose that the customer comes tothe broker and says, here's shares of the ABC Company,sell these shares for me and put the money in your brokeraccount. And the broker, before he sells, has the intentto take the money for the broker's own account. Is therea fraud under your theory? MR. GOLDBLATT: Under that theory, I wouldsubmit there is a fraud. That is unauthorized to take themoney in that situation and he's duped into turning overthe securities to the broker, and there is an investmentdecision being made. But you have a particular --QUESTION: No. No. He's made the investmentdecision in my hypothetical. He said, I don't want youradvice about selling. You sell these things. I'mdirecting you to do that. MR. GOLDBLATT: In that circumstance, if he thensells the security and places it in the account, then hehas completed the instructions. But if he sells thesecurity and converts it to his own use, then I believe th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC you don't have in that situation, in other words, if thoseare the instructions from the client to the broker -- Icorrect myself. That would not be a (b)e violation. It will be a violation of the broker rules. Itwill be a conversion. It will be a criminal act. Butthere will be no fraud. He will have carried out theinstructions to sell the stock. There's no inducementthere to sell --QUESTION: Well, only in really a Pickwickiansense of the term. He carried out the instructions tosell the stock but he keeps the money. Nobody wouldconstrue the instructions that way. MR. GOLDBLATT: Understood. But nor were -- theinstructions were to sell the stock. He is not beingduped into selling the stock. That is exactly what hewanted done. What he's being duped into is the proceedsare being converted. But the difference with Bankers Lifeis that the (b) violator in that case actually goes tothe person and says we should sell this, with the intentof diverting the proceeds. That person is duped into believing by the actorthat they are making the sale with the understanding thatthey will get the proceeds. Again it -- for purposes of --QUESTION: How does that differ from here? I th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC thought here that what our facts that we are assuming arethat the stockbroker says to the client, I have control ofyour account and I'll sell for your benefit. That's theimplicit instruction. The client says sell for my benefit. And herethe stockbroker sells for his own benefit. What's thedifference between that case which is this one, and theone Justice Kennedy is submitting? MR. GOLDBLATT: I think the difference is forpurposes of the (b) paradigm it requires that the salebe induced by the broker for fraudulent reasons. If allhe's doing is converting the proceeds --QUESTION: But here we also have, as they haveemphasized about times, not simply stealing. What wehave is a sale of stock where the stockbroker has theintent when he sells the stock to keep the money, contraryto what the implicit assumption is about what the clientwants. Now, that seems to be a little extra thing hereso we don't have to reach all these broad issues. Now,what do we -- that's what I find indistinguishable. MR. GOLDBLATT: Justice Breyer, here is thedistinction that I would draw. In the Bankers Lifesituation where you have the sale induced, the (b)violation is complete when the sale is made. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC In the situation you describe, until and unlessthe broker, having followed the instructions and sold thestock, until and unless he actually converts the proceedsto his own use, you don't have a (b) violation.QUESTION: Why don't you? I mean, if we couldever prove it? Suppose in fact the broker, because we hada mind-reading machine, sold the stock in order to convertthe proceeds, puts the money in the account and then dies. I mean, you know, it's a little weird, but nonetheless ifwe could ever prove such a thing, why wouldn't that be aviolation of b-? MR. GOLDBLATT: Because until and unless heactually converts the proceeds, he hasn't violated (b). He has not done anything against his client'sinstructions. QUESTION: He hasn't? He has converted -- hehas sold the shares, contrary to the instruction, sellthem for my benefit, for his own benefit. MR. GOLDBLATT: My point is that until heactually converts, while that money is still in theaccount, while the stock has been sold consistent with thedirections, until and unless he actually converts theproceeds to his own use, he has not violated (b). QUESTION: But what about, never mind the takingof the proceeds. Suppose you have a broker who for some th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC reason because he has an interest in a company orsomething else sells stock in a customer's account whereit didn't really make sense to sell it. The only benefit from selling it is a benefitfor the broker himself. His brother-in-law is with acompany that would profit from this sale of the stock. Would that be covered by (b)? MR. GOLDBLATT: I think that would be covered by(b). QUESTION: Well, why isn't that the samesituation here? Because this sale was not a sale -- nevermind the later theft -- the sale was not a sale for thebenefit of the customer which is what he's promised to do.He's promised, I'll manage these stocks for yourbenefit. And here he sells them when the customer'sinterest did not call for a sale. The only reason thesale happened is that the broker had his own interest inmind. MR. GOLDBLATT: Justice Scalia, the reason whythat doesn't work here is because as the Court of Appealsfound, there's no evidence in this record to establishthat the sales themselves were inconsistent with theclient's interests. Regardless of what Zandford may havebeen thinking, the evidence simply showed that they weresold. He has discretionary power to do it -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: Well, does it have to beinconsistent? Do you have to prove that they wereinconsistent with the interest or is it enough to provethat the broker did not act in the customer's interest? Isn't that enough for the breach of the fiduciary duty? Even if it turns out that, what do you know, it was a goodidea to sell, the market crashes, nonetheless he wasguilty of a fiduciary breach if he didn't sell it becausehe thought it would help the customer but he thought itwould help him. Wouldn't that be a breach right then andthere? MR. GOLDBLATT: It might be a breach offiduciary duty in the trust sense. It does not affect thesale unless you can establish that the sale isunauthorized, it is inconsistent with the client'sinterest. QUESTION: It is unauthorized. I didn'tauthorize him to sell stock for his benefit. The wholeidea was he was supposed to sell it for mine. MR. GOLDBLATT: But the sale itself wasauthorized. The only point I'm bringing out is in asituation like Bankers Life where the broker induces thesale with fraudulent intent, you have a complete violationwhen the stock is sold. It makes no difference after thatwhether the broker is successful or unsuccessful in th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC diverting the proceeds. You have established a fraudulentsale in which an investor's decision has been induced byfraudulent intent. In the situation where the sale is authorized,either because the client calls the broker and says I wantyou to sell XYZ Corporation today, and the broker doesthat --QUESTION: That one I agree with. MR. GOLDBLATT: In that situation, regardless ofwhat the broker is thinking, he may be thinking I'm goingto take the money and run. QUESTION: But that isn't what happened here. The customer didn't call up and say sell. MR. GOLDBLATT: No, but --QUESTION: The broker has authority to sell buthe has authority to sell in the interest of the client. And no interest of the client called for the sale of thesesecurities. The only thing that called for the sale ofthe securities was without selling them, I can't get themoney to steal. MR. GOLDBLATT: Justice Scalia, in that regardwe point to two decisions from the th Circuit in O'Brienand Congregation that deal with discretionary accounts. And when a client turns money over to an investmentcounselor or broker and says, you make the decisions, I'm th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC giving you blanket authority, and that's what we have inthis record; in that situation, that takes you out of the(b) paradigm. QUESTION: Well, it's true in effect that notevery breach of fiduciary duty is a fraud. MR. GOLDBLATT: That's correct. Not everybreach of fiduciary duty is a fraud, and not every breachof fiduciary duty will violate (b). QUESTION: But in your paradigm, you are sayingthe authorization is induced by fraud and that's crucial. But in -- why don't you have the equivalent of it here? Because what you have here is a continuingauthorization. There is an authorization generally givenat the beginning and the theory is that that authorizationcontinues so that at every moment subsequent to that theclient is saying yes, you may sell these things or buy asyou see fit for my benefit, so that at any moment at whichthe client remains silent and allows that authorization tocontinue, if at that moment the broker has formed theintent, which you would take to be sufficient, why doesn'tthat function in the same way as the authorizationspecifically induced? The client is being quiet and he's continuingthe authorization because the broker is implicitly lying.MR. GOLDBLATT: Justice Souter, my answer to th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC that is this: If it is shown, in other words, assumingyou have a discretionary account to invest conservatively,if a broker then goes and buys a penny stock, that isoutside the scope of the discretionary authorization andit would be a violation of (b). What the --QUESTION: Well, it's outside of theauthorization at the beginning because the authorizationunder no circumstances covered that kind of a sale. MR. GOLDBLATT: Yes, it was outside the scope ofthe authority. QUESTION: But the term of the authorizationthat I'm saying is crucial, and what I thought you weresaying is crucial in the case that you succeed is the termof the authorization that in effect says, you may sellthis stock for my benefit. And you are saying if aspecific decision to that effect is induced by fraud,that's enough. It gets you within the rule. And I'm saying if a continuing decision, adecision evidenced by the client's silence is induced,that should be sufficient too. MR. GOLDBLATT: And one of the things that theCourt of Appeals found here was that that was notestablished. With regard to the various sales, when thesechecks were written, the Court concluded there was nothingin the record to conclude that those sales -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: Okay. Then maybe this case shouldcome out your way. But as a matter of theory, isn't itthe same case whether it's a continuing authorization oran authorization which is specifically induced? MR. GOLDBLATT: In either situation if you canshow that the sale itself is a violation of thatauthorization or a breach of it, yes. But in this casethe Court was very careful on that in saying not only thatthis was a discretionary account, but in light of theallegations in the indictment there was just no proof inthe record that any of these sales were in violation --QUESTION: Yes, but you are going back to theindictment and ignoring the complaint. MR. GOLDBLATT: Even with the complaint there'sreally nothing in the complaint that they are relying onother than the mutual fund account, and again --QUESTION: Well, the course of conduct, onetransaction after another is relevant; isn't it? MR. GOLDBLATT: Not given the time factor. Andwe are not talking -- the time factor is actually fromMarch of ' to September of '. And in that regardthere's just nothing in the record -- we don't even knowwhat the securities were that were bought or sold. Andthat's the problem with their theory of this case. It'soverarching in where it goes. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC There's no proof that any of these sales werenot consistent with the authorization, were not in theclient's interests. And they didn't attempt to prove it.QUESTION: In the case of churning --QUESTION: Well, is there any proof that any ofthe proceeds were ever given to the owner of theprincipal? MR. GOLDBLATT: The proof is that the proceedsgo to three contracts that were determined by the jury inthe wire fraud case to be fraudulent that are agreementsthat were between Zandford and the clients. One was apersonal loan, one was an investment that the Courtdetermined to be fraudulent. That's where the fraud takesplace. That's where the conversion takes place, notsooner, under our theory and under what the Court found. QUESTION: You say that there's no evidence thatthe sale was made for the fraud. But if as the governmentsays, some of these sales were made to cover a checkwritten on the account, the sale would not have occurredhad the check not been written. And that check he wroteto himself or to one of these contract accounts. Doesn'tthat make it automatic that the sale occurred in order toget the money to pay him? MR. GOLDBLATT: I don't believe so, JusticeScalia. And I don't believe that was their theory in the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC indictment. The checks were written on the account but hehad authority to do that. There's no --QUESTION: Fine. MR. GOLDBLATT: -- indication that was wrong --QUESTION: And is the writing of the check whatcaused the sale? MR. GOLDBLATT: Positions were liquidated inorder to pay the checks. QUESTION: Right. MR. GOLDBLATT: But there's no indication thatthose sales were not a deliberate decision to sell thosesecurities at that point to take the money and put it intosomething else. There's nothing to indicate that that wasunauthorized to do that. Because we don't know what thethoughts were. QUESTION: It was authorized? QUESTION: I'm missing something. Why do youwrite the check first if all you intend to do is to takethe proceeds and buy another stock for the client'sbenefit? It's the sequence of the check, I think, that'sbothering me. MR. GOLDBLATT: Well, the sequence of the checkis to take the money out of the account and invest itotherwise, which is why you would do it that way or coulddo it that way. But we know very little about it. But th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC there's nothing --QUESTION: Doesn't it matter who the check iswritten to? I mean, I presume these checks that thegovernment was referring to were not checks sort ofpayable to the mutual fund to buy more stock or payablefor the purchase of other stock. It was simply payable tothe broker; wasn't it? MR. GOLDBLATT: Well, it was payable to thebroker or accounts controlled by the broker. But as theevidence establishes in the record on affirming the appealon the sufficiency of the evidence claim, the money wentinto other investments. And that's what Zandford'sdefense was. These were other legitimate investments andthat's what I was doing with the money, and they knewabout it and that's what that was.QUESTION: So they can't -- you are saying theycan't trace any proceeds necessarily from the checks drawninto Zandford's personal accounts or --MR. GOLDBLATT: Well, they -- the way theydescribe it, it goes to accounts controlled by Zandford. So they do indicate that the conversion of the proceedsinto other investments was fraudulent. QUESTION: Well, let me just see what yourtheory is here. Suppose the way it works is that there'sa mutual fund account and the broker decides, I want to th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC take this money for my own purposes to spend on a pleasurecruise. I write the check that causes the sale of thesecurity. Under your theory, is there a b- violation?MR. GOLDBLATT: If the writing of the check isunauthorized, it's going to be a b- violation. QUESTION: Everybody knows he didn't -- theclient didn't authorize the broker to take a pleasurecruise. That's my hypothetical. MR. GOLDBLATT: Then it would be a b-eviolation. What the Court found lacking here was anyevidence that the sale itself of the securities by thewriting of the check established a b- --QUESTION: But it's alleged properly. I mean, Iread on Page A, in July -- there's a misprint in theparagraph, but in July Zandford without the priorknowledge or consent of -- must be of Wood -- sold threesecurities in the Wood account for a total of $,. What their claim is, is that without the client's consent,the broker sold the securities and then after that he usedthe proceeds for himself. All right. Now, on yourtheory, that alleges a violation of the securities law. Is that right? MR. GOLDBLATT: Under my theory, that wouldallege it. QUESTION: All right. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. GOLDBLATT: But the Court of Appeals found --QUESTION: Fine. Then the correct thing ofdisposition in your view of this case, since theallegation is there, and since the Court of Appeals saidthat the criminal case didn't investigate this matterabout whether it was or without the client's consent, yourview is we should have a remand so that they can have atrial on the question of whether Mr. Wood did consent tothe sale. Is that right? MR. GOLDBLATT: No, Justice Breyer, that's notright. QUESTION: Because? MR. GOLDBLATT: Because two things. One, theCourt of Appeals found that there was no evidence becauseit was a discretionary account, that there was anythingunauthorized about it. There wasn't any consent needed. QUESTION: Of course there was no evidence. That's because the government relied upon the criminalcase. So the Court of Appeals says they are wrong to relyon that. Then as you pointed out at the beginning, thecorrect result is to send it back so now the governmenthas a chance to put in other evidence, if you are rightabout what the evidence shows. MR. GOLDBLATT: In the ordinary course I would th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC agree with that. All other things being equal, that wouldbe the result. But if in fact the SEC by its litigationposture chose to rest exclusively on the criminalindictment, this other case --QUESTION: You mean there is something in thisrecord where the SEC says, by the way, if this criminalcase does not provide sufficient evidence, we do notintend to put in any other evidence. Where does it saythat? MR. GOLDBLATT: It doesn't say that. There arerepresentations that the criminal case is the same as thecivil case. At the time of our argument in this case, weargued to the Court that if this is all they have, if thecriminal indictment is -- yes, in the Court of Appeals. If this is all they have, then there's nothing to send itback for. Because this evidence in the criminal case --QUESTION: You mean it's going to be agreed thatthere is no doubt that this retarded individual of a veryadvanced age agreed that his securities would be sold forthe purpose of the broker running off with the money? MR. GOLDBLATT: Justice Breyer, I think that --QUESTION: I say that with some sarcasm in myvoice, because it sounds to me incredible. MR. GOLDBLATT: Obviously these are very hardfacts to argue. But my point is, he went to jail for th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC almost five years. It violates all sorts of rules,provisions, statutes, there's no question about this. This conduct is controlled. The Court of Appeals had nodoubt about that. But a (b) violation is different. And also the SEC's litigation posture is different. Ifthey are going to give up the facts in the complaint andargue the case on the indictment, in a strategical attemptto get the Court to rule the way they want, which is thebroadest possible (b), then they have got to live withit. And when the fact --QUESTION: That's for purposes of theiraffirmative motion for summary judgment. They could thensay these facts are established. That's not a sufficientreason for granting summary judgment the other way around.MR. GOLDBLATT: I absolutely agree, JusticeStevens, and our only point there is --QUESTION: Therefore, we should not ignore theallegations of the complaint that go beyond theindictment. MR. GOLDBLATT: The only objection I have tothat is the fact that they sought rehearing and theysought rehearing and bond, and not one word was mentionedabout a remand for dismissal. They were still arguingcollateral estoppel and on the facts of the indictment wewin outright. They did not even bring it to the attention th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC of the Court. QUESTION: That's because they were trying towin outright. MR. GOLDBLATT: That's right. QUESTION: But that doesn't justify your winningoutright. MR. GOLDBLATT: When they file -- of course. There's no question that both sides agree that BankersLife and O'Hagan control and we say it's clear we win. That's the normal case. But when they don't seekrehearing on that basis so this Court doesn't even knowwhy the Court of Appeals did what it did, and when theyfile for certiori and don't raise that as a claim forreversing or --QUESTION: Well, when you say we don't know thereason why the Court of Appeals did what it did, I mean,it wrote an opinion, which usually gives the reason whythe Court of Appeals did what it did. Are you complainingthat they didn't say anything on rehearing?MR. GOLDBLATT: What I'm saying is when thiscomes up for the first time in the opinion of the Court ofAppeals and they file for rehearing, and they don't evenbring it to the attention of the Court so that the Courtcan determine whether there is something to be correctedor whether this is the Court's understanding from oral th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC argument that is what their case is. QUESTION: You are saying that the governmentdidn't raise this issue in their petition for rehearing tothe Court of Appeals. MR. GOLDBLATT: They did not even mention it. QUESTION: Well, but I don't know that they haveto. I mean, so long as they properly petition here, Idon't know that you need have a petition for rehearing inthe Court of Appeals. MR. GOLDBLATT: Ordinarily I would absolutelyagree, Mr. Chief Justice. But I think when it's somethingthat comes up in the opinion from the Court of Appealsthat on its face doesn't have any explanation thatbasically says instead of going back so you can prove yourcase, we're throwing it out completely, and they don't saya word to the Court of Appeals, that's the wrong remedy. I mean, that's the first thing --QUESTION: But Mr. Goldblatt, the Court ofAppeals decision didn't turn on issue preclusion, itturned on a notion that in order to have a violation of(b) you had to have some kind of misleading about themerits of a certain security, something tied to thesecurity, and not that they regarded this as a common lawcrime as theft. MR. GOLDBLATT: The Court concluded -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: I mean, the point they made was it'sthe same as if what was entrusted to the broker were a carand he sold the car for himself instead of the customer. MR. GOLDBLATT: The point was that thesecurities were incidental to this fraud. They were notan integral part of it, and --QUESTION: May I just interrupt with one. Thequestion presented is whether when the stockbroker sellshis customer's certain securities for his own benefit. Now, do we have to assume he sold them for his own benefitat the time the sale was made or are you saying in fact hesold them for his principal's benefit and later decided toappropriate the proceeds? MR. GOLDBLATT: Justice Stevens, what I amsaying is there is no proof in this record that at thetime of the sales --QUESTION: Well, maybe there's no proof but thequestion we are asked to decide is when he does it for hisown benefit is it a violation of (b)? That's what thequestion is. MR. GOLDBLATT: I understand that, JusticeStevens, and --QUESTION: And what's your answer to thequestion? Your answer to the question is he didn't do it. MR. GOLDBLATT: My answer to the question is it th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC is authorized sale, either on the instructions of the --QUESTION: Well, if it's a sale for his ownbenefit. MR. GOLDBLATT: And at the same time it is alsoconsistent with the client's instructions, until heconverts, he has not violated (b). QUESTION: Even though the sale was for his ownbenefit at the time he made the sale.MR. GOLDBLATT: Even though he -- if it is forhis own benefit -- in other words, it could be both at thesame time. At the time of the sale, if the client callsyou and says sell my XYZ stock, I want it sold today, andyou sell it with the intent to convert the proceeds, thatsale is not simply for the broker's benefit. It isconsistent with the instructions. It is an authorizedsale. Until and unless he actually converts the proceeds,he has violated nothing. QUESTION: But when you say it is consistentwith the instruction, you are assuming the instructionsimply means you can buy or you cancel, whereas theargument is that the instruction is you can buy for mybenefit or you cancel for my benefit. And if we acceptthe latter characterization as true, then even under yourown theory, he was not making a sale that he wasauthorized to make. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. GOLDBLATT: I would disagree, JusticeSouter. On this record it may well be that it was for hisbenefit, but I don't think you can conclude it was not forhis client's benefit as well. QUESTION: Mr. Goldblatt, before you sit down,would you say something about the fact that you haveadjudications by the SEC that adopt the theory that theyare arguing before us, why shouldn't we defer if thequestion is a close one? MR. GOLDBLATT: As I understand it --QUESTION: These are formal adjudications underthe Administrative Procedures Act and they have ruled inaccordance with the theory that the government is nowarguing. Why isn't that entitled to deference? MR. GOLDBLATT: Justice Scalia, assuming -- andbecause my time has run out -- assuming that Congress infact delegated the discretion to the Agency, I don't thinkyou can find in any of the various things that they relyon, any rule dealing with (b) or Section b- thatspeaks to the precise issues that are raised in this caseor even close to them. What they do is they have rulesthat in or so cases, or whatever the number, they haveprosecuted for (b) violations brokers who convert. Butthey are not necessarily, as a matter of fact I don'trecall any of them being discretionary accounts or th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC presenting the type of (b) analysis, fraud in connectionwith a purchase or sale of securities. QUESTION: So you are saying we can defer it,but there's nothing to defer it to. MR. GOLDBLATT: That is correct. Assuming thereis deference, there's nothing to defer it to, and if therewas, it would be a rule that they are ultimately askingfor that a broker any time they convert from the accountviolates (b) and that would be arbitrary. That is notthe way this rule is applied. It is applied on a carefulcase-by-case basis. So whichever way you go on that, Idon't think it gets them the deference they seek. I wouldadd, however, with the little time that I have left, thatI do not believe they would get that deference. On churning, Justice Ginsburg, just to get tothat point, in a churning case, I think that is more theO'Hagan paradigm. You consummate the fraud through thesale itself. It is the sale that completes the violation. It is the sale that consummates the violation of fiduciaryduty. That's the difference between here and a churningcase. Until and unless Zandford converts thoseproceeds, which is done through agreements that areoutside the scope of the securities laws, he has notviolated (b). th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC In a churning case, the sale itself consummatesit and it meets the other conditions that are required inO'Hagan. That is a different situation and it is alsoestablished, of course, in that situation through thepattern of sales you have the proof that you don't havehere, which is that those sales were not in the client'sinterests. If you cannot establish that they --QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. Goldblatt. MR. GOLDBLATT: Thank you. QUESTION: Mr. Roberts. Mr. Roberts, thegovernment wants the Court of Appeals reversed here, I'msure. But does it want the summary judgment granted bythe District Court for the SEC affirmed? REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF MATTHEW D. ROBERTSON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERMR. ROBERTS: No, Your Honor, we didn't seekreview of the reversal of the summary judgment. We soughtreview of a different part of the Court of Appealsopinion. After it reversed the summary judgment, itexplained why it didn't think summary judgment could begranted, it went on to say that the allegations in thecomplaint didn't state a claim under (b). And that'swhat we want reversed. And the Court of Appeals relied on the facts inPage A of the petition. The Court of Appeals states in th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC the part of the opinion that's relevant here that the SEC,I'm in the middle paragraph of that page under the B, andI think it's the third sentence, says it, meaning the SEC,alleges that Zandford defrauded the Woods by failing toinform them that he intended to sell their securities inorder to obtain the proceeds for himself. So the facts that the Court of Appeals wereconsidering are precisely the same facts that we arerelying on here, Your Honor. And the --QUESTION: Go ahead. I have a differentsubject. Finish this one. MR. ROBERTS: Okay. I was just going say thatthe indictment is no different in any event, and on PageA in paragraph of the indictment it alleged thatCharles Zandford caused checks to be issued against thesecurity positions of William R. Wood and Diane Okstulskiand made payable to Charles Zandford, thereby causingtheir securities to be liquidated. QUESTION: But it doesn't say it was withouttheir consent. Nowhere in the --MR. ROBERTS: It says it was part of a schemeand artifice to defraud. QUESTION: That's true. That's true. MR. ROBERTS: So I think that pretty wellencompasses that. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: Mr. Roberts, we have apparently some,I would call it a factual disagreement, as to whether anyadjudications by the SEC adopt the theory that you arearguing before us today. What are your best cases? MR. ROBERTS: Okay. I would point to, on page of our brief we discuss the Southeastern SecuritiesCorporation adjudication, Your Honor, from , sevenyears after the SEC promulgated Rule (b). In that case the facts were that the presidentand director of the brokerage firm sold the customer'ssecurities without her knowledge or consent and convertedthe proceeds of the sale to his own use. And afterexplaining that there was a relationship of trust andconfidence and that he had a fiduciary duty, the SECaddressed the argument that this conduct was authorizedbecause he had discretion over the customer's affairs byvirtue of a general power of attorney, and rejected thatargument, noting that even assuming the power ofattorney's validity, it didn't authorize this conductabsent a showing of full and specific disclosure to andunderstanding consent by the customer. And then the Commission concluded that thestockbroker's taking and sale of the customer's securitiesand his use of the proceeds constituted a willful abuse ofhis trust and a violation of -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: When do you say Rule -- or Section(b) is violated? Let's assume that this scheme isdiscovered before he actually runs off with the money. Hesold the stocks in order to run off with the proceeds, butyou get him before he runs off with the proceeds. Hasthere been a violation --MR. ROBERTS: Yes. QUESTION: -- at the time of the sale? MR. ROBERTS: Yes. There's a violation at thetime of the sale. QUESTION: Okay. MR. ROBERTS: The discretionary authoritydoesn't make the sale authorized because he's authorizedonly to sell for the benefit of the customers. QUESTION: Well, I mean, it seems to me that'slogical and that sort of makes me worry about -- about thegreat scope of litigation that we are inviting if you saycivil actions not by the Commission but by individuals arealso available under this theory. Whenever a broker sells stock, he's always opento the charge that he wasn't doing it in my interest, hewas doing it in his own, and you have a lawsuit.MR. ROBERTS: Two -- two points to address thatconcern, Your Honor. First of all, as I was discussingwith Justice Ginsburg earlier, when there is -- a private th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC action requires proof of damages. And if the brokerdoesn't follow through with his plan to convert theproceeds, there will be -- it will be frequently the casethat the customer can't show damages and needs to be ableto allege those as a required part of the action, couldn'tbring it at all, end, case over. QUESTION: Well, the stock's gone up. I mean,the stock that has been sold has gone up enormously. MR. ROBERTS: Right. QUESTION: And all the plaintiff has to allegeis you really didn't sell it in my interest, you sold itbecause you were going to run off with the proceeds, andlook what happened, the stock went way up. MR. ROBERTS: No, Your Honor. Under the PrivateSecurities Litigation Reform Act, the plaintiff has tostate with particularity facts giving rise to a stronginference that the defendant acted with the requisitefraudulent state of mind. QUESTION: Well, are you saying that everybreach of fiduciary duty is a fraud under (b)? MR. ROBERTS: No, Your Honor. Only secret ordeceptive breaches of fiduciary duty are frauds. QUESTION: What about a standard churning case? Aren't most breaches of fiduciary duty secret? I mean,you don't announce that you are breaching a fiduciary th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC duty. MR. ROBERTS: Many of them, particularlybreaches of the duty of loyalty will be secret, YourHonor. But not every breach of fiduciary duty is going tobe -- is going to be secret or knowing. A breach of theduty of care wouldn't even be knowing necessarily. Abreach of the duty of fairness as in the Santa Fe casewhere all the factors disclosed would not be deceptive,there would be no violation. But in O'Hagan, the Courtexplained that when the -- when a fiduciary pretendsloyalty to the principal and instead embezzles theprincipal's property, that's a fraud. And that's a fraud --cases?QUESTION: What happens with standard churningMR. ROBERTS: This is -- this is just like astandard churning case, Your Honor. A churning case isone --QUESTION: Well, is there authority that this isa b- violation --MR. ROBERTS: Yes. QUESTION: -- and it's a given or are we holdingthat in this case. MR. ROBERTS: Well, you are not addressingchurning because obviously that's not here. But I think th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC that the courts of appeal have unanimously concluded thatchurning is a violation. And that's because the brokerwho has control over the account and who's been entrustedwith trading authority by the customer is making thetrades, not in furtherance of the customer's investmentobjectives but in furtherance of the broker's aim ofgaining commission. QUESTION: So if you prevail in this case, thiscase will be authority which validates all of the circuitopinions holding that churning is a violation. MR. ROBERTS: Well, again, Your Honor, churningis -- it's a different -- it's a different factualscenario because there are repeated sales and because theproceeds aren't taken. And I suppose that a distinctioncould be drawn between when the proceeds are taken and ifthe proceeds -- if it isn't a question of taking theproceeds but just making a commission, which the customerknows that the broker is doing. But I do think this wouldbe strong precedent in support of those cases. QUESTION: Would you want to argue thatdistinction, Mr. Roberts? MR. ROBERTS: Not particularly. I wasacknowledging that I think this would be strong precedent. But I -- Respondent concedes that churning is covered, thecourts of appeals unanimously have held that churning is th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC covered. I have no doubt that churning is covered. TheSEC has no doubt that churning is covered. So youwouldn't be breaking -- wouldn't be breaking new ground inholding that. I mean, it would be in the sense that itwould be your decision, but you can make the distinctionsin future cases that you feel are appropriate andnecessary, Your Honor. (Laughter.) QUESTION: Too true. Too true. (Laughter.) MR. ROBERTS: If there are no further questions,the Government would ask that the decision of the Court ofAppeals be reversed. CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: Thank you, Mr.Roberts. The case is submitted. (Whereupon, at : a.m., the case in theabove-entitled matter was submitted.) th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC 