 IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XLEE M. TILL, ET UX., Petitioners ::v. : No. -SCS CREDIT CORPORATION. :- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XWashington, D.C.Tuesday, December , The above-entitled matter came on for oralargument before the Supreme Court of the United States at: a.m.APPEARANCES:REBECCA J. HARPER, ESQ., Marion, Indiana; on behalf of the Petitioners.DAVID B. SALMONS, ESQ., Assistant to the Solicitor General, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; onbehalf of the United States, as amicus curiae,supporting the Petitioners. G. ERIC BRUNSTAD, JR., ESQ., Hartford, Connecticut; on behalf of the Respondent. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. C O N T E N T SORAL ARGUMENT OF REBECCA J. HARPER, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioners DAVID B. SALMONS, ESQ.On behalf of the United States, as amicus curiae, supporting the Petitioners G. ERIC BRUNSTAD, JR., ESQ.On behalf of the Respondent REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OFREBECCA J. HARPER, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioners PAGE th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. P R O C E E D I N G S(: a.m.)CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: We'll hear argumentnext in No. -, Lee Till v. SCS Credit Corporation.Ms. Harper.ORAL ARGUMENT OF REBECCA J. HARPERON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERSMS. HARPER: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court:Deferred payments under section(a)()(B)(ii) must equal the present value of thecollateral. Historically present value has been anobjective concept equalling the real interest rate andinflation, which is the time value of money. The Seventh Circuit has redefined this conceptin a manner that seriously disrupts two fundamentalprinciples of chapter , that being the equal treatmentof creditors similarly situated and the debtor'srehabilitation, the debtor's access to chapter .QUESTION: When you say traditionally it's beenunderstood to mean real interest rate plus time value ofmoney, it means real interest rate for the particularlender. Isn't -- I mean, the -- the interest rate that isgiven to different lenders is not always the same.MS. HARPER: Under chapter , you're simply th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. trying to value the money. It's not particular to aspecific creditor because you're just trying to equate theamount of money over time to a particular amount of theallowed secured claim.QUESTION: Well, that's right, but the interestrate that I have to pay when I buy a house with a verysmall down payment is much higher than the interest I haveto pay if I make a much larger down payment.MS. HARPER: That's --QUESTION: And the interest I have to pay, if Imake, you know, over $, a year is less than I wouldget if I have a lower income. So you can't just speak ofa fair interest rate in the abstract as though it's a --it -- it's a platonic number floating out there. Itcertainly depends upon the solvency and -- and the recordof payment of the person paying the interest. Isn't thatright? I --MS. HARPER: You're -- you're talking aboutinterest in the open market, though, which is not whatwe're talking about here. We're -- we're talking moreabout --QUESTION: I'm surprised to hear you saying thisbecause I thought your brief acknowledged that even afteryou begin with the -- with a discount rate, you know, the-- the Fed's discount rate -- I thought your briefs th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. acknowledged that the bankruptcy court could add to that a-- a surcharge depending upon the riskiness of the chapter debtor.MS. HARPER: That --QUESTION: You didn't acknowledge that? Ithought your brief acknowledged that. I'm -- you -- youreally want to use the discount rate, period, and nothing-- nothing tagged on top of it.MS. HARPER: I was going to get to that, but incertain circumstances an additional risk factor may berequired, but it is our position that there are many otherstatutory elements under -- provisions under chapter that cover the types of risks that would normally beincluded in a contract, for instance. QUESTION: Well, I -- I think the same thingthat's bothering Justice Scalia, or that prompted hisquestion in any event, is -- is troubling me. When I -- Iread the briefs, I -- I thought that the coerced loanapproach, which you object to, did have certaindeficiencies, because you had to have testimony what theinterest rate is, you have to conform it to the particulartransaction, it's hard to administer. I frankly don't seehow yours is much different because you add a premium tothe prime rate. What is that premium going to be? Whyshouldn't it depend on the transaction? Why shouldn't it th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. depend on the risk of default? Why doesn't your approachhave all of the same problems as the coerced loanapproach?MS. HARPER: Because you need to limit thepurpose of that premium. Most risk elements areencompassed within other sections of chapter becauseyour normal risk of deterioration of the collateral, forinstance -- that's adequate protection. So you don't haveto add on for that. You don't have -- the risk of defaultis covered by the fact that there is a wage assignment ineffect. I'm saying that in certain instances --QUESTION: Well, but if that was true, you couldbring up the same thing when you're cross-examining the expert on the coerced loan approach and say, well, wedon't want percent because there's a wage assignment. It's the same answer.MS. HARPER: No. The percent, such as the percent that was in this record, there was no support forat all. The creditor did not show any basis for --QUESTION: It showed what the creditor had beengetting before, and that, I thought, was the argument,that in -- out of chapter -- , in chapter ourcontract rate was percent, and that represents what itwould cost this borrower if he were today to take those th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. funds, get the same funds. It would cost him percentbecause he's a high-risk borrower. That's -- that's thetheory. But you're saying that that is a wrong theory, asJudge Rovner said in her opinion, but it's -- it's notbecause it's more difficult to apply than some othertheory.MS. HARPER: Well --QUESTION: I think you're -- you're saying thatthat's a wrong approach, and maybe you'll say why.MS. HARPER: Yes. It's the wrong approachbecause the only thing that the creditor is entitled toprotection for under is the value of the collateral. In that percent contract rate, first of all, on therecord in this case the expert couldn't even say what it consisted of. But in your typical contract rate ofinterest, you're going to have transaction charges. You're going to have the risk of default, which hasalready occurred here, the risk of bankruptcy default, forinstance. That risk has already occurred here. Thecreditor has already been compensated for that.QUESTION: You think that makes this a better --a better borrower? It -- it makes it a safer loan whenyou're -- when you're -- you're owed money by somebody whohas already been through bankruptcy once? You thinkyou're in better shape? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. MS. HARPER: In many --QUESTION: Gee, that's -- that's a novelapproach.MS. HARPER: In many respects, it is saferbecause here you're talking about a subprime lender whodid enter into a contract where it assumed a great amountof risk, but now the debtor's debt structure, his paymentobligations have been modified by the chapter .QUESTION: So you think a lender has twodifferent loan candidates in front of him, one he thinksis going to go through bankruptcy and the other he thinksis not, so he's going to give the loan to the first one?MS. HARPER: I think that --QUESTION: That's -- that's very difficult for me to assume.MS. HARPER: -- a lender may charge additionalinterest if -- under State law if the lender hasindication that the debtor may go through bankruptcy, butnormally in the subprime market, that's all factored inbecause most subprime candidates are candidates forpossible bankruptcy in the future.QUESTION: Is it a fact that most chapter bankrupts don't make it to the end of the program?MS. HARPER: Well --QUESTION: In fact, the vast majority fail. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. MS. HARPER: That's not necessarily true whenyou talk --QUESTION: I thought we had statistics on that.MS. HARPER: The problem is most of thestatistics focus on the default rate just from the filing,the number of filings. They don't focus on the defaultrate after the chapter has been confirmed because thereare many -- the case by that point has been reviewed bythe court and it's determined to have been feasible. Thedebtor by that point has been making payments for asubstantial period. QUESTION: Are there statistics on that kind ofcases that you're describing now?MS. HARPER: There -- I have found limitedstatistics. One study that I found said that percentof the chapter 's completed successfully after theyreached the point of confirmation. So there is suggestionthat after the point of confirmation, the success rategets much higher, which only makes sense because a lot oftimes --QUESTION: It's still not a very good risk. Imean, you --MS. HARPER: Well --QUESTION: -- you lend money to somebody. Yourchances of getting it back are out of ? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. MS. HARPER: The subprime lender's risk in theopen market is not good either. So --QUESTION: Well, I think it's better than outof .MS. HARPER: It's five times higher than theprime market.QUESTION: Let -- let me ask you a -- the -- theway I see these two approaches. I'm assuming that -- thatyou're -- you're willing to allow over the prime rate someaddition which the -- the courts that -- that follow your-- your favored approach do allow for risk factor. Sounder your theory, you take the prime rate, and then it isup to the bankruptcy judge to assess what the risk is,something that I think judges are probably not very well qualified to do.You know when -- when you pick the prime rate,that that's not the market rate. It obviously isn't. Soit's well below the market rate. I mean, here you had a percent loan and you're going to take what? I don'tknow. A prime rate of percent at most? You know it'swrong. And then the bankruptcy judge has to make itright. Okay? Under the other approach, you take the marketrate, the rate that was actually adopted between these --these two people operating in a free market. Now, it -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. it may be -- may be high, it may be low. You don't knowfor sure that it's either one. It's -- it's -- it may beaccurate. It is not surely inaccurate the way picking theprime is. And then the adjustment to be made by thebankruptcy judge is much less. If there are some specialfactors that show a lesser risk now than there was whenthe loan was originally made, he might take them intoaccount. Now, as I see it, the less discretion that isleft to the bankruptcy judge and the more weight that isgiven to the -- to the real forces of the operatingmarket, the better off we are. I -- I don't think thatbankruptcy judges are very good risk calculators.MS. HARPER: That totally eliminates the fact that a chapter has been filed and that there arecertain minimal requirements for chapter confirmation. A -- and the problem is that market rate, the way thesecourts have defined it -- has come to mean anything andeverything. We're talking about two different marketrates here. QUESTION: I'm talking about using the rate ofthe loan that was actually made.MS. HARPER: But there is nothing in the statutethat requires the creditor to be compensated for all ofthose items that were included in the pre-petition th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. contract.QUESTION: No, but he has to be given thecurrent value of his security and the current value of hissecurity, which is not going to be received years fromnow or years from now, depends upon how much of a creditrisk there is that that money will actually be paid.MS. HARPER: How could the -- how could youpossibly contract in advance for the present value of thisparticular allowed secured claim, $,? That amountwasn't even known when the contract rate was established. The contract rate was based upon particularcharacteristics of the creditor and the debtor and many --QUESTION: In -- in an open market. And if thedebtor could have gotten -- it's a very competitive market, as I understand it. And if the debtor could havegotten a lower rate elsewhere, he presumably would have.MS. HARPER: That's --QUESTION: I'm just saying that that's -- thatthat's a reasonable starting point. Now, if there has tobe an adjustment because market rates have gone down sincethen, that minor adjustment can be made, but that's goingto be much less of an adjustment than you're going to haveto leave to the bankruptcy judge if you begin with theprime rate which you know is wrong. You know that nobodywould have made this -- this car loan at the prime rate. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. MS. HARPER: That's not the question. Thequestion is not what someone would make a new loan forbecause an allowed secured claim in chapter is a claim. It's not a loan. Once the bankruptcy is filed --QUESTION: Let me ask you this -- this piece ofit. The -- Justice Scalia said to give this kind of you-pick-it discretion to the bankruptcy judge is a worrisomething, but all of the cases that take this approach, theTreasury bill approach or the prime, seem to have a rathernarrow range for that risk factor. They go from percentto percent, and none of them go over percent. Wheredid they -- where did that range -- who invented thatrange that percent would be the ceiling?MS. HARPER: That's a good question. I believethat it just results from the fact that in your typicalchapter , you don't have a lot of special risk that hasto be compensated for because you usually have the fixedasset, there's no hazard -- hazardous use, you've got awage assignment. You -- substantial risk might result,for instance, in a chapter if you had a balloonpayment. QUESTION: A what payment? MS. HARPER: A balloon payment instead ofperiodic weekly payments, which is usually what you havein a chapter . th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. QUESTION: As I understand it, your expert inthis case, your economist, testified that the prime ratewas percent and that in his view a reasonable riskpremium would be .. But he conceded under cross-examination that he was unfamiliar with the relevant ratesof default or costs of servicing loans in the subprimemarket, which --MS. HARPER: That's --QUESTION: -- to my mind is conceding that hehas no basis for picking . percent. MS. HARPER: That . in that case was actuallya local bankruptcy rule. But that same expert alsotestified that prime already includes percent whichcould not be accounted for except for risk and transaction fees.QUESTION: The risk -- the risk of a primeborrower, of a fat cat borrower. MS. HARPER: But, again, we're not talking aboutborrowing on a new loan in a chapter . The -- we'retalking about modification to an old loan, an existingloan. (b)() allows you to modify that contract. Sowe're not looking at what this debtor would have to pay inthe open market were it not for the chapter . That'snot the proper inquiry.If there are no further questions, I would th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. reserve the remainder of my time. QUESTION: Very well, Ms. Harper.Mr. Salmons, we'll hear from you.ORAL ARGUMENT OF DAVID B. SALMONSON BEHALF OF THE UNITED STATES,AS AMICUS CURIAE, SUPPORTING THE PETITIONERSMR. SALMONS: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice, andmay it please the Court:The court of appeals here held that thebankruptcy courts are required to presume that the pre-bankruptcy contract rate of interest, which varies fromcreditor to creditor and could range anywhere from to percent or more in some jurisdictions, is the appropriatediscount rate to use in calculating the present value of plan payments under section . Now, that approach ismistaken, we submit, for three principal reasons.First, it violates the core bankruptcy principleof equality of distribution for similarly situatedcreditors. Under the court of appeals' approach, twocreditors could make car loans to the same debtor thatresulted in allowed secured claims of equal value, and yetone would receive thousands more in plan payments solelybecause the other made its car loan at a time when thedebtor's financial troubles had not yet become obvious.QUESTION: Is that right? I just want to be th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. sure I understand the -- the point. I thought if you hadthat differential before the bankruptcy judge, it's a --the original is a presumptive risk, and the judge couldthen resolve it by maybe compromising between the two.MR. SALMONS: Your Honor, this is an importantpoint because I think there is some misconception aboutwhat the court of appeals held in this case, and I thinkthat's due in part to the fact that respondents, at leastas I read their position, are not really defending theapproach taken by the court of appeals. The court ofappeals did not adopt a presumption in favor of the pre-bankruptcy contract rate because it thought that thatrepresented accurately the relevant market, if you will,for the risks of -- and benefits and protections that exist under the Bankruptcy Code.In fact, under the court of appeals' approach,the risk of nonpayment is really irrelevant. What thecourt of appeals says is that because the -- the creditoris denied use of funds for the period of the payment plan,that it therefore is entitled to whatever rate it wouldhave gone out and funded a new loan at if it had beenallowed to foreclose and reinvest the proceeds. Now --QUESTION: I agree with you, and -- and therespondent is not defending that approach, but rather theapproach that you use the rate of the -- of the original th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. loan as the starting point, and then adjust it asnecessary.MR. SALMONS: That's correct, and I just want toemphasize, though, that -- that the adjustment that thecourt of appeals would make is not one I think thatanybody before the Court now would defend because thecourt of appeals would adjust only if you could prove thatthe -- a particular secured creditor is now making loansat some other rate and there's no reason to think why thathas anything to do with what the present value of planpayments would be under . And -- and the problem --QUESTION: So, but you're saying -- but you'resaying that under the respondent's view, that -- that thecreditors would be treated differently? MR. SALMONS: If respondent's view is that youshould have a presumption in favor of the pre-bankruptcycontract rate, then that would be the result. What's notclear to me is whether it's actually respondent's viewthat you should have a presumption in favor of thesubprime contract rate or the highest contract rateallowed by State law because it's important to rememberthat pre-bankruptcy contract rates are going to vary. Youcould have a percent lender. You could have a primelender, and you could have a subprime lender. And there'sno reason to think that any one of those necessarily th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. captures the unique mix of risks and benefits andprotections that exist under the Bankruptcy Code.QUESTION: Where do you get the principle thatall secured creditors have to be treated equally? Wheredoes -- where does that appear? MR. SALMONS: Well, Your Honor, on -- I wouldrefer you to page --QUESTION: I'm sure it's true of all unsecuredcreditors. I -- I don't know why --QUESTION: Page of what? MR. SALMONS: I'm sorry, Your Honor. I wouldrefer you to page of the Government's brief where werefer to two cases by this Court, Bigeur v. the IRS and --and Union Bank v. Wolas, that stand for the principle that -- that embody the notion that equality of distributionamong creditors is a central policy of the BankruptcyCode. That's this Court's language. QUESTION: Similarly situated creditors.MR. SALMONS: To be sure, Your Honor. QUESTION: Not secured versus unsecured.MR. SALMONS: That's why I gave the example thatI did of two creditors that extend car loans and the onlydifference between them -- they have the exact sameallowed value under the code for their claim. The onlydifference between them is that one made its loan years th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. prior to bankruptcy when the -- when the debtor's credithistory was not quite as bad and the other made it weeksbefore bankruptcy when the only rate the debtor could getis --QUESTION: Well, why isn't that a validdistinction? MR. SALMONS: Because, Your Honor, from thestandpoint of section (a)(), the relevant inquiry iswhat is the present value of the promised future paymentsfrom the debtor. All creditors are now facing the exactsame situation, and I think respondent concedes this. Andthose are the risks of inflation, the time value of money,and the risk that particular payments may not be madeunder a plan. And there's no reason to think --QUESTION: Well, and the risk --MR. SALMONS: -- that those are different forcreditors --QUESTION: The risk of the security will justdisappear too, you know, be totally devalued.MR. SALMONS: Your Honor, I don't think that'sembodied in section (a)(). If anything, that'scaptured in the higher replacement value standard for thevaluing of the underlying claim that this Court adopted inRash. And I would add that -- that one reason to thinkwhy the discount rate here doesn't need to go too far in th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. taking risks of nonpayment into account is that this Courtin Rash adopted the underlying value here, replacementvalue, that's typically significantly higher than whatthe --QUESTION: What has that to do with it? I don'tsee what that has to do with it at all. MR. SALMONS: Well, Your Honor, what --QUESTION: I mean, the reason I say that is Ithought we were following a statute, and what the statutetells us is that the value of what they receive has toequal $,. They receive a set of promises to pay somuch a month and the right to repossess if those promisesare not kept. Now, that's what the statute tells us todo. So let's do it. What do we care how they arrived at the $,?MR. SALMONS: Your Honor, my only point is thatthis Court in Rash noted that the higher replacement --QUESTION: Whatever it said in Rash, reading thestatute, unless they actually contradicted that, doesn'tthe statute say what I just said? So the problem in thecase is how do we value the stream of payments plus therepossession value?MR. SALMONS: I think --QUESTION: I would have thought that that kindof thing is something bankruptcy judges are paid to make th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. judgments about all the time.MR. SALMONS: Well, I -- I generally agree with-- with Your Honor's statement. What -- what I would add,though, is that the dispute in this case is not -- I mean,it's undisputed that inflation and the time value of moneyhave to be taken into account under -- under the discountrate. The only question is whether you have to take intoaccount the risks of nonpayment. We submit that there --QUESTION: Of course, you do. Of course, youdo. There is a risk of nonpayment and anything thatdidn't take that into account would not be equating theproperty with the $,. MR. SALMONS: Your Honor, if -- if this Courtbelieves that risks of nonpayment need to be taken into account, then we submit that the best way to do that is tostart with a market indicator such as the prime rate thatcaptures the time value of money and the risk of inflationand then -- then allow -- and -- and some risk ofnonpayment, and then allow the bankruptcy court, which --which, by the way, has just made a determination under(a)() about the likelihood that -- that the paymentswill be made. And it has made --QUESTION: Start with a figure that you know forsure is wrong. You know for sure that this person who gota percent car loan because he was a bad credit risk was th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. never going to get the prime rate of percent. MR. SALMONS: Your Honor --QUESTION: Why begin with -- with something --MR. SALMONS: Your Honor, the answer to yourquestion --QUESTION: -- that you know is going to beabysmally low except for the fact that it will mean lessmoney for the secured creditors and more money for theunsecured creditors, among whom is often numbered theUnited States? MR. SALMONS: Your Honor -- Your Honor, theanswer to your question --(Laughter.) MR. SALMONS: The answer to your question is because there is no rate you can find that -- thatprecisely reflects the unique mix of risks and benefitsand protections that are available under the BankruptcyCode. And so by definition, everyone here is talkingabout a proxy in some form or another. Now, what the prime rate does do is is itaccurately captures the time value of money and inflation. Now, we submit that the bankruptcy court, which has justexamined the plan -- it has made a determination. Infact, it has found that the payments -- that the debtorwill be able to make the payments under the plan -- that th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. bankruptcy court is in the best position to make adetermination about plan-specific risks of nonpayment ifthose risks are going to be included. And that's a muchmore efficient system than forcing the bankruptcy court togo out and try and find some -- some elusive market that-- that would serve as a proxy for that determination.QUESTION: Well, you could ask them to just lookat the contract rate and, if need be, make some adjustmentto that because of the fact that they won't have to --MR. SALMONS: Your Honor --QUESTION: -- go through the collection process.MR. SALMONS: -- the difficulty with thecontract rate approach is that it varies from creditor tocreditor, and there really is no reason to think that --that either secured creditors, or unsecured creditors forthat matter, for purposes of -- of this case, should betreated differently. They all face the exact same risksof nonpayment, the exact same problems of inflation andtime value of money. They are similarly situated. QUESTION: In this case, as I understand it,this lender always charged percent. It didn't differfrom -- from lender -- borrower to borrower. Every one ofthem was charged percent. That was the market.MR. SALMONS: And -- and another securedcreditor may have made a loan prior to that at a prime th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. rate to the same debtor, and it always charges the primerate, neither of which is particularly relevant to thequestion of what's the value of the promised paymentsunder the plan. QUESTION: But if the second one was so stupidas to do that, why should he be protected? MR. SALMONS: Well, Your Honor, it's not amatter of stupidity. It's a matter of the fact that adebtor's position changes over time and that what may be agood rate years out from bankruptcy and that is stillowed would not be the rate you'd give immediately beforebankruptcy. And it may not be the relevant risks ofnonpayment that exist under bankruptcy.The point is that -- is that as -- as this Court understood in Rash, the -- the creditor is entitled to thevalue of its allowed secured claim, and this Court notedin Rash that already compensates significant risks ofnonpayment. Now, I would add, if I may --QUESTION: Because if this had been foreclosurevalue, then if we were going through this exercise, well,the creditor would -- would then sell the asset and -- andcharge a -- a new borrower with the same rate of interest. But the asset would be worth much less than the price --MR. SALMONS: That -- that's correct, and Your th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. Honor, I would add that in fact we think it's possible toread the statute so there's no risk of nonpayment at allbecause the statute refers to property to be distributedunder the plan, and it requires the bankruptcy court tomake a finding that the debtor will be able to makepayments. And there's no guidance whatsoever that wouldgive bankruptcy courts a way to do anything more, and sowe think in fact that an appropriate rate could even bethe Treasury bill rate which --QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. Salmons. MR. SALMONS: -- excludes that. Thank you. QUESTION: Mr. Brunstad, we'll hear from you.ORAL ARGUMENT OF G. ERIC BRUNSTAD, JR. ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTMR. BRUNSTAD: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court:The formula approach is surely inaccurate. Itsystematically under-values the true risks and costs of achapter promise of repayment. We know at beststatistically that chapter debtors at best have a percent rate of -- of payment on the plans.QUESTION: How -- how many default? QUESTION: Your -- your opponent says that the-- that that's -- if you're taking after the thing is th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. confirmed, after -- that it's a percent.MR. BRUNSTAD: Yes, Your Honor. There -- thereis one study that suggests that, but I must -- I must addthat -- that there are other studies that say that thesuccessful completion rate is as low as percent in somejurisdictions. Some percent of chapter fail.QUESTION: After confirmation.MR. BRUNSTAD: Those are -- that's a totalnumber, Your Honor. QUESTION: Okay. That's the difference betweenyour statistics --QUESTION: Yes.QUESTION: -- and hers.QUESTION: Since -- and since this is an after-confirmation case, why -- why don't we take thatpercentage? MR. BRUNSTAD: Well, Your Honor, giving them thebenefit of the doubt, we -- the best we can say, basedupon what we know, is approximately a percent successrate.QUESTION: After --QUESTION: What do you say to Mr. Salmons'argument that in fact the -- the plan is not supposed tobe confirmed unless the judge makes a -- a determinationthat it can be followed, and it therefore isn't legitimate th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. to take this kind of risk into consideration at all?MR. BRUNSTAD: It's what we call the feasibilitystandard, Your Honor, and it applies in every single oneof the reorganization chapters. The bankruptcy court mustmerely determine that the bankruptcy judge feels that thedebtor will successfully complete the plan. We know,however, that given the extremely high rate of default inchapter , which far exceeds chapter , for example,that the feasibility standard doesn't even come close toensuring --QUESTION: Well, how do we know how -- how many-- what's the percentage of people in this chapter thatdefault within a year on -- on a payment of about $ amonth I guess, that was a small percentage of what they were paying into the court? What's the figure?MR. BRUNSTAD: Well, there are two sources. Thebest statistics that I've been able to come up with isthat it's about a percent failure rate.QUESTION: percent fail within a year? Yousaid that percent failed overall. MR. BRUNSTAD: percent fail within the - to-year period.QUESTION: No. I asked you how many -- this is-- or let's take it then giving you the benefit of thedoubt. The payment plan was for months. What is the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. percentage of people who fail to make a -- I guess it wasabout percent or percent of the amount he was payinginto court. How many fail to make that kind of paymentwithin months?MR. BRUNSTAD: The statistics are notdisaggregated on that basis, Your Honor. QUESTION: Correct. That's what I would think.So what is wrong with us saying just by chancewhat the statute says? What the statute says is,bankruptcy judge, here's what you do. You create a streamof payments such that that stream of payments plus thevalue of the repossession equals $,. Now, that's yourjob. Go do it. So I would have thought, if I were thebankruptcy judge, the way I'd do it would be by looking to the prime rate and then asking me -- asking you or othersto tell me how much riskier this is than the prime rate,and I'd choose a number. And I can't imagine how we'regoing to come one whit closer than that generalinstruction, but you'll tell me why it is possible to comecloser.MR. BRUNSTAD: Your Honor, the contract rate isthe best evidence, the single best evidence of the marketrate. QUESTION: Contract rate -- if there has to be anumber that's wrong, it has to be that one. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. MR. BRUNSTAD: But it is less --QUESTION: The contract rate by definition wasentered into at some significant period of time prior tothe present, and the present, by chance in this instance,is years later, and we know that interest rates fell atleast or percent during that time.MR. BRUNSTAD: But not for subprime --QUESTION: So -- what?MR. BRUNSTAD: But not for subprime loans.QUESTION: That's impossible. The prime rate --MR. BRUNSTAD: No, Your Honor. This is why. QUESTION: If that's so, then the risk went up.MR. BRUNSTAD: No, that's not correct, YourHonor, and this is why. QUESTION: No. It isn't? MR. BRUNSTAD: Because State law caps themaximum rate that can be paid. QUESTION: Oh, okay. Okay. MR. BRUNSTAD: So it increases the pool --QUESTION: All right. All right.MR. BRUNSTAD: -- of who can be lent to, but notthe rate. QUESTION: All right, because it's a usuryproblem. MR. BRUNSTAD: Correct. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. QUESTION: So -- so you would be free with yourexperts to come in and say why it happens to be that thebankruptcy judge is wrong to take the prime rate and add arisk factor, but ordinarily a contract entered into inadvance would not be good evidence of what the interestrate is today. Now, where am I wrong in that?MR. BRUNSTAD: Because, again, the contract rateis the best evidence of a market rate between thisborrower and this lender with this particular --QUESTION: At a prior time. MR. BRUNSTAD: At a particular time --QUESTION: Yes. MR. BRUNSTAD: -- particularly if it'scontemporaneous to the filing. It reflects it and --QUESTION: Oh, yes, of course. I'm -- but I'm-- I'm simply saying isn't it true by definition that acontract entered into at an earlier period of time whereinterest rates fluctuate is not going to be very goodinterest -- evidence of what that interest rate is today.MR. BRUNSTAD: Well, Your Honor, the contractrate is not perfect, but it's far superior to the formulaapproach, and what you see happening -- Justice Ginsburg,the Second Circuit in the Valenti case came up with a -point factor, just simply canvassing some lower courtdecisions and decided prime rate plus , , or points. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. It's not based on any evidence. It's just simply basedupon what the court felt was an appropriate range.QUESTION: Your --QUESTION: If you take Mr. Salmons' point thatnow we're in bankruptcy, it's a different world, and we'vegot one creditor -- let's say $, is the principal forboth, but one lent at prime and one lent at subprime. Once we're in the universe of bankruptcy, why shouldn'tthose two lenders, both with $, principals, be treatedthe same? MR. BRUNSTAD: If their risks are different,they should be treated differently, Your Honor. QUESTION: But once you're in the bankruptcy,the risk of getting back the $, is the same for both creditors, isn't it? MR. BRUNSTAD: Not necessarily so, Your Honor. You can take a situation. Say you have a hotel, a commonasset in bankruptcy. The hotel may have a senior securedcreditor and a junior secured creditor. The number onesecured creditor's risks are materially less than thejunior secured creditor's. They would be separatelyclassified. Because their risks are different, theinterest rates are different. In this very case at page of the jointappendix, you can see how the debtor broke down its four th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. secured creditors into four separate categories, and theyhave different rates. Two secured creditors are offered. percent and two are offered percent interest for thepayments the debtor is going to make. The concept of equality of distribution isprecisely equality of distribution among similarlysituated creditors. Secured creditors are each unique bytheir own definition of the risks that they take. Theyhave collateral. QUESTION: And your response to Justice Breyer'squestion, as I understand it, is that percent may notbe precisely what the rate is today for a loan made years ago, but it's going to be a lot closer to it than percent is.MR. BRUNSTAD: That, plus the fact that the percent is often going to be actually too low to reflectthe actual risk being assumed.QUESTION: Well, that may be. Well, that maybe, but what I didn't understand about your answer is whenyou said that the contract rate must be more accurate thanthe formula.MR. BRUNSTAD: It seems to be.QUESTION: Since the formula by definition isperfect --MR. BRUNSTAD: No, Your Honor. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. QUESTION: Since the formula is an instructionto equate the value of the stream of payments plusrepossession with $,, the formula by definition isperfect. So --MR. BRUNSTAD: No, Your Honor. QUESTION: Well, why isn't it?MR. BRUNSTAD: The formula rate is essentiallystandardless, and what we have seen how bankruptcy courtsapply the --QUESTION: You're saying I take -- you're sayingthat --QUESTION: But yours is in theory perfect.QUESTION: Wait. No, no. Answer --MR. BRUNSTAD: Imperfect. That's correct. QUESTION: No, no. Yours is in theory perfectjust as -- as the formula is in theory perfect. In bothof them you -- you begin with a starting point, and thenyou make whatever adjustments the reality of the riskrequires. That brings you theoretically in both cases aperfect answer.The only question is, as a practical matter,which of the two is likely to come closer to the correctanswer, starting with percent that you know is way offthe mark and then letting the bankruptcy judge figure outhow much you add to that, or starting with percent th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. which, you know, is -- is -- it could be high, it could below. It's much fairer to both parties, but then let thebankruptcy judge adjust that a little bit. That's thequestion: what -- what the practical consequence is notthe -- the theoretical. They're both perfecttheoretically. MR. BRUNSTAD: In theory, Your Honor, yes, butwe must be faithful to is the statutory command. And herewhat we see happening is what happens in this case. Abankruptcy judge takes the formula approach, a --basically a low rate, the prime rate, and is supposed toadjust it. And what do they do? Well, there's noevidence to support any adjustment in this particularcase. The debtors' expert did not testify that he knew anything about the risks of these particular debtors. There's no basis for the adjustment. The bankruptcy courtdid what bankruptcy courts do in these cases; it simplypicked a number.QUESTION: Well, couldn't the creditor havebrought in an expert?MR. BRUNSTAD: The creditor did bring in twowitnesses, and the witnesses testified that theseparticular debtors with their particular credit historieswould be charged a percent rate of interest. QUESTION: Well, can you tell me why is it that th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. the petitioners tell us that their standard is so mucheasier to administer? Is it because the courts aren'tadministering it in the right way? As I listened to it,it seems to me I have two choices. I can begin with a lowrate and add or I can begin with a high rate and -- andsubtract. Why -- why is one any more easy to administerthan -- than the other?MR. BRUNSTAD: Because --QUESTION: In fact, it -- it would seem to me --and this I suppose helps you -- that if the courts whichare using the petitioners' formula are doing it the rightway, it might even be harder to administer. They -- theyavoid that problem by just accepting some interest factorof to percent out of the blue although I don't know how they do that. MR. BRUNSTAD: Well, Justice Kennedy, what wehave is we have three circuits which have adopted theformula approach, and so we have the experience of thecourts in those circuits, and we have the balance of thecircuits, approximately seven, that have taken more of themarket rate approach. And what we see happening is thatin those situations where the bankruptcy courts areapplying the formula approach, they are systematicallygiving chapter debtors a rate of interest pretty closeto prime. Now, that can't be correct. That gives the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. debtors with the single highest default rate in bankruptcythe lowest rates available in bankruptcy.QUESTION: Would it satisfy you if we said this? Suppose we said we see what we're after here. Theobjective is to equate the stream of payments plusrepossession with $,. Now, on the one hand, we knowit can't be lower than the prime. On the other hand, ifthe creditor wants to come in and give a -- present hisevidence, the contract, of how risky this person is, thenin fact it is evidence absolutely. And the bankruptcyjudge will look at it, and he'll try to figure out thepluses and the minuses, what's happened to the interestrate, whether this particular person is a good or badrisk, and he'll choose a number. Don't judges do things like that all the time? MR. BRUNSTAD: And apparently incorrectlysystematically in chapter cases.QUESTION: But no. But does what I say satisfyyou? MR. BRUNSTAD: No, Your Honor. And here's why.QUESTION: If not -- because? MR. BRUNSTAD: Because the true market rate ofinterest is almost always going to be at least thecontract rate, presumptive contract rate, because thecosts in chapter are so much more extraordinarily th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. higher than the costs of collection outside of chapter . The automatic stay stays in place for the duration of theplan. If you have a default, the secured party has tocome back to the bankruptcy court, hire an attorney, pay a$ filing fee, argue the case. Bankruptcy judgesroutinely give the debtor a second chance to cure thedefault. They have to come back. The costs of collection-- that's even before you get to foreclose on yourcollateral. The costs of --QUESTION: But don't you get certain advantages? I mean, you do have the wage order. So there's a courtsupervising that this wage -- every month that thisperson, this borrower, is going to have to pay.And in the -- in -- in that setting you also have -- going back to Rash, the one thing I don'tunderstand about it because it seems you want to take itthe high side both ways. You've already been given thereplacement value rather than the foreclosure value.MR. BRUNSTAD: Correct, Your Honor. QUESTION: So if we're going to do it your wayand say, well, now, suppose the lender foreclosed on theasset, made a new loan at the percent rate -- but youwould have to use not the replacement value, the highervalue. You could only use what you could get onforeclosure if we follow your theory about we should make th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. it just like you sold the asset, got money, and made a newloan. But the -- but you -- but the amount that you gotwould be much less than the replacement value which iswhat you're getting inside the bankruptcy.MR. BRUNSTAD: Your Honor, the secured creditorin the chapter cramdown context is not trying to makeany profit. It's simply trying to mitigate against theenormous losses that it suffers. QUESTION: But isn't that one of the adjustmentsthat would have to be made? You couldn't say adjust percent against $,. You'd have to say $, minusbecause your foreclosure price is going to be much lowerthan the replacement costs that you've got in thebankruptcy.MR. BRUNSTAD: But taking the extremely highrisks of default and the costs of actually having toforeclose in the chapter context, the relevant marketrate for the value of the stream of payments is alwaysgoing to be at least the -- the pre-bankruptcy contractrate. In fact, it should --QUESTION: Mr. Brunstad --MR. BRUNSTAD: Yes.QUESTION: -- let me suggest a scary thought.(Laughter.) QUESTION: Is it -- is it possible that the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. statute does not provide an answer to this question? (Laughter.) QUESTION: That since both of these schemes,your proposal and the other side's proposal, aretheoretically perfect, if they are done correctly, thebankruptcy court is free to use either one so long as hecomes up with the right answer.MR. BRUNSTAD: No, Your Honor. QUESTION: I mean, the only thing the statutesays is what -- what Justice Breyer keeps coming back to. You have to provide him $, in value.MR. BRUNSTAD: No, Your Honor. The -- thebankruptcy statutes sometimes are obscure until we seewhere they come from, which is why we often look at their history. The master concept of cramdown is indubitableequivalence. It comes from Judge Hand's opinion in theMurel Holdings case. And the example in (a)()(B)that we're talking about is simply an example ofindubitable equivalence. The secured party must be fullycompensated for the risk that it must assume. The conceptof indubitable equivalence must be completelycompensatory. The secured party is not supposed to takeuncompensated risk.QUESTION: Nobody is disagreeing with you aboutthat. That -- what we're -- I think what we're trying to th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. get to -- it's a practical question. I actually think myapproach is more perfect than Justice Scalia's perfectapproach. (Laughter.) QUESTION: But the reason is it asks the rightquestion. Now, what you're telling me is that by askingthe right question, the bankruptcy judges systematicallyhave not done it right. And -- and I see your point. So-- so what we're -- so we're trying to think of a form ofwords we could say which would lead -- I can't say takethe contract rate because I know that must be wrong.MR. BRUNSTAD: No, Your Honor. QUESTION: We could say take the contract rate and go down, and then they'll have the same problem. I --I mean -- all right. But that's what we want them to do,is to honestly equate the value of the payments with the$,.MR. BRUNSTAD: Yes, Your Honor. QUESTION: I think everybody wants that, andwe're searching -- at least I am -- for a way of how to dothat. You keep telling me you take contract rate. I hateto tell you I keep thinking no.MR. BRUNSTAD: As a presumptive rate, YourHonor. And it's important to understand just after this th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. Court's decision in Rash set the valuation standard forsetting the principal amount, what you see now is thatsince we got the standard right, in percent of thecases, the parties come to an agreement as to what thevalue of the collateral is. Once we get the standardright here, you should expect the same thing. It won't belitigated over and over again. The correct standard is I think to recognize,which I think Your Honor does, that this concept ofpresent value is an economic concept, not an equitableone, and that essentially what we're doing is we're sayingthere is a stream of payments to be made here and we haveto figure out what it's worth. The best test for whatit's worth would be what the market says. Now, the problem is, is that in chapter thereis a market. People do lend to chapter debtors, andthe standard is the same in chapter as : value as ofthe effective date of the plan under . So what we --we have to be very careful about is in chapter , themarkets do value debtors' promises to pay and they lendmoney and they charge very high interest rates. Exitlenders or finance lenders charge very high interestrates, , , percent. It can't be true that inbankruptcy, in chapter , who are the riskiest chapter --riskiest debtors with the highest default rate, that we th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. systematically give them a rate which approaches prime. So I think what you need to do, recognizing it's aneconomic concept, is say what's the best evidence of amarket rate.QUESTION: I understand. Tell me an -- aquestion I don't know the answer to.MR. BRUNSTAD: Yes, Your Honor. QUESTION: When -- when -- if you repossess --if he defaults again -- I mean, the first time he got intobankruptcy. Now, we've got the plan.MR. BRUNSTAD: Yes. QUESTION: And suppose he doesn't make thepayments on the truck. Does it then cost you a lot ofmoney to go back even though you say to the judge, judge, this is the second time? We'd like our truck now. It'sonly worth $, now. And you still have to pay the $,get your witnesses and everything the second time?MR. BRUNSTAD: What happens the second time,Your Honor, is if the debtor defaults under the plan, theautomatic stay is still in effect. Unlike chapter cases, where the automatic stay terminates when the planis confirmed or becomes effective, here the automatic staystays in place until the end of the repayment period. Soif the debtor defaults under the plan, someone has to goback to court and say, I need relief. I need relief from th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. the automatic stay to exercise my collection rights. A corporation like SCS can't go back to courtpro se. It needs a lawyer. You have to hire somebody togo and represent them. You have to pay a filing fee. Oftentimes the bankruptcy judge gives the debtor a secondchance to cure the default under the plan. Then thedebtor says I'll cure, and then you come back a secondtime, sometimes a third time, sometimes a fourth time,sometimes a fifth time, incurring costs at each juncture. On loans that typically range between $ to $,,having to go to court even once --QUESTION: Is that compensated for to someextent --MR. BRUNSTAD: No, Your Honor. QUESTION: -- that factor by the fact they'reusing Blue Book value to value the car rather than whatit'd actually be worth in your hands once you repossessit?MR. BRUNSTAD: No, Your Honor. I think thatcovers the depreciation problem. As we have delay and notpayment, we have a rapidly depreciating asset, which thedebtor is continuing to possess and drive around. Thisinterest rate compensate for the risk of nonpayment of thepromises to pay after confirmation and the costsassociated with the debtor's default if the debtor does th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. default under the plan. QUESTION: I -- I don't think it's certainlyconclusive of the point, but the initial percent rate,I take it, did take into account the risk of default. Soin a sense, the creditor has received up front somecompensation for the risk that in fact has occurred.MR. BRUNSTAD: Yes, but at the time the loan ismade, Your Honor, we don't know who in the pool of -- ofdebtors is going to default. Once the default happens --QUESTION: Well, but -- but overall, you accountfor that.MR. BRUNSTAD: Overall the risks are spread, butif you force the secured party to systematically subsidizeinterest rates to chapter debtors, who have now demonstrated by their filing they are the riskiest of therisky, what you will eventually have happen is acontraction of the ability to lend.QUESTION: But -- but your original -- youcharge percent, and a lot of people are going tosuccessfully pay that and that stream there takes intoconsideration some account for those who don't pay and gointo bankruptcy, doesn't it? MR. BRUNSTAD: Yes, Your Honor, but we shouldn'treward those who file bankruptcy with a rate that is less,since they are the riskiest of the risky, than we would th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. charge the other members of the pool who avoid bankruptcy.QUESTION: Maybe they're not.QUESTION: The -- the Bankruptcy Code, I takeit, has solicitude for debtors. Isn't that one of itspurposes?MR. BRUNSTAD: Yes, but --QUESTION: Or does that just drop out when wecome to the cramdown problem? MR. BRUNSTAD: As this Court indicated in theJohnson case, section (a)()(B) is for the protectionof creditors. It is a limit on the debtor's ability toadjust or restructure the creditor's rights. It is thecreditor's protection. The debtor has options. If thedebtor wants to surrender the collateral, it may and discharge the debt. That is the protection for thedebtor.QUESTION: But what about then taking this idea? I'm trying to figure out how -- we say, okay, we reallymean it. It has to equate those two things. Now, thatput -- and -- and then stop and say, you can do it with --I -- I think, you know, prime plus or whatever, maybe theother. But -- but then put the burden back on you toproduce some real evidence and statistics about whathappens to people we don't know about.Now, who are those people? We agree they've th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. gone into bankruptcy, so they're risky, but they're alsotrying to get a second chance, and they also want to keepthings like the truck because it will help them in theirbusiness. And the bankruptcy judge has sat there andlooked them in the eye. And you have all those thingsabout it which you don't have about the people you'regiving the percent to which is a great mass ofundifferentiated people.So then you have the burden of trying to bear itout with statistics and so forth that these people reallyare risky. And the bankruptcy judge can't just sit thereand say, oh, I feel sorry for them. All right? Whatabout something like that?MR. BRUNSTAD: Well, Your Honor, when we get to the chapter confirmation stage, we're in a similarposition as when we are at the beginning of making loansto a pool of applicants. We don't know who's going todefault and who doesn't. We do know that a largepercentage will. We do know that the best evidence of amarket rate for these particular class of borrowers is thecontract rate. And the question then becomes, do we wantto have a system which requires us in each bankruptcy casethen to take evidence complicatedly in , chapter cases as to, gee, we need statistics and evidence as tothis individualized debtor? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. QUESTION: No, I mean, you wouldn't have to gothat far. Maybe you just have to do it in one or two. But at least we'd get to the stage of people who havetrucks and use them for a year and, you know, at leastwe'd have somewhat better information than just knowingabout the default rate in bankruptcy cases in general. And we get a little finer than that. You see, that's whatI'm trying to work with. I don't have an answer. MR. BRUNSTAD: I understand. QUESTION: I'm asking.MR. BRUNSTAD: I understand, Your Honor, and Iwish I could give you a precise formula. The problem isthat these things are normally left to the market to do. Congress has said -- Congress has said basically use an economic market concept here in a context in which thedefault rate is so high that lenders are just not willingto lend to chapter debtors. Again --QUESTION: But -- but I -- I thought thedifficulty of administration charge was the one that thepetitioners were making against you. How -- how do I sortthat out?MR. BRUNSTAD: And I think -- I think it wasYour Honor who also mentioned that -- that our standard isno less cumbersome than theirs. We think it is superiorbecause it will yield the correct result more often. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. QUESTION: No more cumbersome. Surely, you meanit's no more cumbersome than theirs. MR. BRUNSTAD: Yes, Your Honor. I -- Imisspoke. Excuse me.QUESTION: Well, Mr. -- Mr. -- it is to thisextent. Most of these debtors are very small debtors. You say take the contract rate as the presumptive rate andthen we're going to knock down for all these other things. The high replacement cost that -- is one thing. Theinterest that they got before bankruptcy is another. Thetransaction cost that they're saved, another. And so letthe debtor come in and show that. But the debtor has nomoney at all and certainly you don't want the debtor'smoney eaten up hiring an attorney and further depleting the money that could go to the creditors.So it seems to me wildly unrealistic to expectthat if you say the presumptive price is the contractprice, you're going to get a debtor who will be able to --I mean, I was surprised, looking at this record, that thisdebtor got an expert. Who -- who paid the expert? Maybebecause the union was involved? MR. BRUNSTAD: I do not know the answer to that,Your Honor. QUESTION: But isn't it typical that thesechapter debtors don't have lawyers and don't have th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. experts? MR. BRUNSTAD: No. They often have lawyers,Your Honor. But let me suggest this. If the Court were toset the rate at the presumptive -- the contract rate asthe presumptive rate, this is what would happen and thisis what has happened in circuits where that is so. The --the contract rate becomes the presumptive rate, and inmost cases the debtor will offer that in its plan -- inhis or her plan as the appropriate rate. If the debtordoesn't like that, we'll offer less of a rate and thenwhat happens is a negotiation. And the debtor and thesecured party get together and they negotiate based uponthe debtor's presentation of this is why I think it should be adjusted off of that because my circumstances haveimproved or there's a lot of equity in this particularcollateral, so your risks are less, so you're moreprotected. And those various reasons can then be given,and then the parties can negotiate. If, however, you set a standard where thebankruptcy court is just simply going to decide based uponthe evidence that the parties put in, we're not going toadopt the formula approach, then you'll be back to theproblem where we are before, lots of litigation. Again,because the contract rate is the best evidence of a -- of th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. a market rate between these parties, it should be thepresumptive rate and we should work from that.QUESTION: Is there any --QUESTION: May I ask you a question that's runthrough my mind listening to this argument? Going back tothe Rash case, was it, that we --QUESTION: Yes. QUESTION: -- we did not there -- the majoritydid not there. I was in dissent in that case. MR. BRUNSTAD: Yes, Your Honor. QUESTION: -- did not take the case to try andreplicate what would have happened if there had been nobankruptcy. They said, we won't -- won't treat it as a --now, you're in effect asking we do treat the case as close as possible to what you would have negotiated in a freemarket.MR. BRUNSTAD: Not quite, Your Honor. I thinkactually this is the same analysis as in Rash. What theCourt said in Rash that the parties had to do was thedebtor had to go out -- the debtor already has the truck-- had the truck in Rash -- is go out and see what itwould have cost the debtor to replace that truck. Itdidn't actually do it, but simply say what would it havecost.The same principle applies here. The debtor th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. should actually go out and see what would someone pay. How much would someone charge to finance this debtor'sloan?QUESTION: Yes, but in doing that, they weresaying, we're going to do that instead of trying topredict what would happen to -- in the normal course ofevents between the contracting parties if bankruptcy hadnot intervened. MR. BRUNSTAD: Well, that's true. In this case,though, that also applies. What would happen ifbankruptcy had not intervened is the secured party wouldhave foreclosed, repossessed the collateral, and avoidedall the costs. QUESTION: But not at replacement value. Youwould not have gotten replacement value. MR. BRUNSTAD: That's true, Your Honor, but thereason why you have replacement value is because thedebtor is going to keep the -- the collateral and preventsthe secured party from exercising its rights and forcesthe secured party to incur costs that it otherwise wouldavoid. Now, the whole purpose of the value requirementand the indubitable equivalent concept and the wholecramdown standard is to make sure the secured partydoesn't -- isn't shouldered with uncompensated risk. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. So the question becomes what's best method ofcompensating the secured party for its risk. And thestatute, because of what it requires, value as of theeffective date of the plan using an economic concept, sayswe basically have to value the stream of payments. Nobodyreally is willing to say I would give this debtor $,or take this debtor's promise of payment of $, at --at a prime rate or anything close to a prime rate. Again,the contract date is the best evidence of a marketvaluation that we have. And so that's what I think wehave to work with --QUESTION: Is there any --MR. BRUNSTAD: -- to be faithful to the statute.QUESTION: Is there any indication that if wetake that, that in fact it will increase the likelihood ofdefault under the plan simply because the higher contractrate will tend to put more pressure on the -- the debtorthan the debtor in fact ultimately can -- can satisfy?MR. BRUNSTAD: Well, Your Honor, in the circuitswhere that already is the standard, that the -- that thepresumptive rate is basically the rate that we use.QUESTION: Yes. What is their experience? MR. BRUNSTAD: There -- there is no informationto say it's higher default rate. And certainly the fact th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. that most of the circuits have this standard has notstopped chapter from being filed. They keep -- everyyear the number goes up. So we're now at about ,chapter cases a year.QUESTION: But it seems pretty obvious if it's ahigher rate, there are going to be more defaults.MR. BRUNSTAD: Well, not necessarily, YourHonor, for this reason. Because the debtor makes -- the-- the debtor does not make payments directly to creditorsunder the chapter plan. The debtor makes payments tothe chapter trustee as a dispersing agent, and thechapter trustee then distributes the money. Whatyou're doing here is you're reallocating in this case afew hundred dollars away from unsecured creditors toward the secured creditor because, again, the statute says thesecured creditor is not required to take -- shoulderuncompensated risk for the benefit of anybody else. That's --QUESTION: Why not take the credit card rate?MR. BRUNSTAD: Sorry, Your Honor? QUESTION: Why not take the credit card rate? Why not take his mortgage rate? I mean, you see, thosearen't the right rates, are they?MR. BRUNSTAD: Here we have a situation in whichthe correct rate for auto loans is evidenced by -- I think th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. best evidenced by the auto loan contract. It is a loanbetween this lender and this debtor, decided in themarketplace, with this particular collateral. It is thebest evidence of a market rate that we have. It's notperfect, Your Honor. I concede that, but it is the bestevidence. QUESTION: It's evidence at a different timebefore you had all the considerations. I mean, we'regoing in circles, and I mean, in some respects it's good,in some respects it's bad.QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. Brunstad.Ms. Harper, you have minutes remaining.REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF REBECCA J. HARPERON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERSMS. HARPER: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice. First of all, we need to get back to the conceptof present value. Present value is the time value ofmoney, which is the real rate of interest plus inflation. The record in this case shows that the real rate ofinterest was -and-one-half percent, and inflation was -and-one-half percent. Now, in this case, the debtors made all thepayments. They actually paid the contract off early, butwe need to start with as pure a base as possible and thenif there are special circumstances, sure, the bankruptcy th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. court could have discretion to add on if there isparticular jeopardy to the property. But we're measuring two different things here. The -- the statute doesn't say contract. The statutedoesn't say market rate. This market rate concept hasbeen misabused. And it -- right now under the bankruptcycourt's interpretation anything is okay as long as you putthis market rate label on it, and that's not a properstandard for chapter confirmation.The other problem is with the respondent'sapproach, the respondent uses words out of the BankruptcyAct, pre-Bankruptcy Act, that simply were never enactedunder chapter . Full compensation, full value of theirrights. That's nowhere in chapter . It's not a part of the chapter requirements. Indubitable equivalence. That's not a chapter confirmation concept. That's a --that's a concept that was brought in to confuse thisissue, but it is not chapter .Respondents -- their amicus said that undertheir interpretation of the statute, basically anythinggoes. A rate from percent to percent would bejust fine with them. Congress has not chosen to protectsubprime creditors. This goes against --CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: Thank you, Ms. Harper.The case is submitted. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. (Whereupon, at : p.m., the case in theabove-entitled matter was submitted.) th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. 