 IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - XDOUG DRETKE, DIRECTOR :TEXAS DEPARTMENT OF CRIMINAL :JUSTICE, CORRECTIONAL INSTITUTIONS DIVISION, Petitioner ::: v. : No. -MICHAEL WAYNE HALEY :- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - X Washington, D.C. Tuesday, March , The above-entitled matter came on for oralargument before the Supreme Court of the United States at: a.m.APPEARANCES:R. TED CRUZ, ESQ., Austin, Texas; on behalf of the Petitioner.MATTHEW D. ROBERTS, ESQ., Assistant to the Solicitor General, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on behalf of the United States, as amicus curiae, supporting the Petitioner. ERIC M. ALBRITTON, ESQ., Longview, Texas; on behalf of the Respondent., Inc. ORAL ARGUMENT OF R. TED CRUZ C O N T E N T S PAGE On behalf of the Petitioner MATTHEW D. ROBERTS On behalf of the United States, as amicus curiae, supporting the Petitioner ERIC M. ALBRITTON On behalf of the Respondent REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF R. TED CRUZ On behalf of the Petitioner , Inc. P R O C E E D I N G S (: a.m.) CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: We'll hear argument firstthis morning in No. -, Doug Dretke v. Michael WayneHaley. Mr. Cruz. ORAL ARGUMENT OF R. TED CRUZ ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER MR. CRUZ: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it please theCourt: This case concerns the continuing vitality of theprocedural default rule, an important bulwark to federalism,comity, and finality of judgments. This Court hasconsistently maintained that cause and prejudice can addressproblems with procedural default, and that the actualinnocence exception should be applicable only in exceedinglyrare cases. QUESTION: Can -- can you tell me -- I don't wantto derail the argument -- you've conceded that this sentenceis unlawful? MR. CRUZ: Yes, Justice Kennedy. QUESTION: Well, then why are you here? Don't -­is there some rule that you can't confess error in yourstate or? MR. CRUZ: No, Justice Kennedy, but the state is, Inc. here, because the state is concerned about the impact on theprocedural default rule, in particular the Fifth Circuit'sdecision. QUESTION: Well, so a man does years so you canvindicate your legal point in some other case? I -- I justdon't understand why you don't dismiss this case and move tolower the sentence. MR. CRUZ: Implicit in the procedural default -­QUESTION: And I'd say the same for the Governmentof the United States. MR. CRUZ: Implicit in the procedural default ruleis the premise that petitioner has a valid claim. In -- insome ways this case, as the Fifth Circuit remarked, as thejudges dissenting from denial of rehearing en banc, in someways this case presents an usually pristine form, I mean,it's almost a law school hypothetical, because the error isso clean. There's a -day disparity -­QUESTION: At -- at the prisoner's expense. MR. CRUZ: But that is inherent in any claim withprocedural default. QUESTION: No, but it's not a -- it's not a -- asif there's some new trial and -- and it's in doubt. It'svery clear he should not be in jail for, like what, , , more years. MR. CRUZ: It is very clear that there was an , Inc. error, and that if Mr. Haley had raised the error at trial,that the trail judge would have and should have sustained -­QUESTION: But is it -­QUESTION: Well -­QUESTION: -- not also very clear that he's goingto spend over year in jail when he shouldn't spend years in jail? MR. CRUZ: It is clear that he will spend yearsin jail when he had an objection he could have raised thathe did not. QUESTION: Well, I understand that, but -- but ifthe law were followed and everything went perfectly, hewould spend less than or -- what is it, or years? MR. CRUZ: Two years would be the max. QUESTION: And he's going to spend years injail, is that right? MR. CRUZ: Yes, Justice Stevens. QUESTION: Now, is that just, do you think? MR. CRUZ: Maintaining the procedural default ruleis --QUESTION: I understand that you want to preservethe procedures, but do you think justice is being done? MR. CRUZ: I think justice is being done because hehad a full and fair trial and an opportunity to raise hiserrors, and there's no greater -­ , Inc. QUESTION: Well, let me ask you this. Why -- whyisn't there still an inadequate assistance of counsel claimout there, and why shouldn't the court address that beforeit gets into the question that it dealt with? MR. CRUZ: Justice O'Connor, I think there is avery strong argument that there was inadequate assistance ofcounsel. QUESTION: Well, why don't we vacate and remand andlet them deal with that? MR. CRUZ: Justice O'Connor, I think that issomething that is open to the Court to do and I think thatis one of the fundamental problems with what the districtcourt did. QUESTION: You don't think that that claim waswaived here? You don't urge us to make that finding, doyou? MR. CRUZ: There is an argument that it was waived,but I think the Fifth Circuit -­QUESTION: Well, except the court below didn'tdecide that question. MR. CRUZ: And I think the Fifth Circuit couldcertainly deem the petitioner's pleading sufficient topreserve that claim. QUESTION: Yeah, I would think so too. I can't -­QUESTION: Are you saying you won't -- you won't, Inc. argue a waiver if it's sent back? MR. CRUZ: If it's sent back, we would be preparedto address the ineffective assistance claim on its merits. QUESTION: And not raise any procedural impedimentto -­MR. CRUZ: Yes, Justice Ginsburg, that's correct. QUESTION: The -- the -- another feature of thiscase, what makes it so disturbing, is that the initial errorwas the prosecutors, in -- when the prosecutor indicted him,that indictment was incorrect, and then the rest followed,relying on that original mistake of the prosecutor. So itseems a -- really an ideal case for the prosecution to say,we missed it, and then as a result of we -- what we, theprosecutor missed, the court missed it, defense counselmissed it, but it was our error and we should correct it. MR. CRUZ: And, Justice Ginsburg, this case maywell, if the Court finds ineffective assistance, that wouldsuffice to correct this, because ineffective assistancecounts as cause, and in many ways this case illustrates whycause and prejudice is ample to address error in sentencingin non-capital sentencing and why there's not a need to openthe door to a new category of exceptions to proceduraldefault. QUESTION: Well, this defendant certainly raised -­he raised the point in his pro se petition in the state , Inc. court and he raised it in the Federal court, the ineffectiveassistance, but nobody paid any attention to him. MR. CRUZ: The -- the claim was denied in statehabeas and the Federal habeas court did not address itbecause it had already granted relief based upon his claimthat he was actually innocent of the sentence. QUESTION: Did the prosecutor suggest that maybethe court should have dealt with it, because neither courtgave any reason for rejecting that claim? MR. CRUZ: I -- the -- the district court jumpedahead in the process. Rather than address cause andprejudice, the district court said that it didn't need toaddress cause and prejudice because it found actualinnocence, and that's one of the -- the significantproblems, much like statutory interpretation, where a courtshould -­QUESTION: Mr. Cruz, let me -- let me make -- getclear what -- what -- what your position is. You're --you'd be totally content if we don't resolve this questionthat's before us about whether whenever there's a proceduraldefault that has clearly resulted and -- and with noineffective assistance of counsel, that has clearly resultedin an injustice, you know, we -- we throw away all theprocedural rules. You -- you don't want us to address thatand just send it back and say, well, before you get to that , Inc. question, you have to resolve the cause and prejudice andthen leave -- leave dangling in the air the question, thesignificant question, it seems to me, on which we grantedcert? MR. CRUZ: Justice Scalia, the first preference ofthe State of Texas is for the Court to address the circuitsplit and to clarify that there is no actual innocenceexception to non-capital sentencing. If the Court is notinclined to do so, the State of Texas, our second preferredoutcome is to vacate the decision of the Fifth Circuit so wedon't operate under that precedent. QUESTION: Why should we -- why should we not beinclined to do so? Is it a constitutional question that weshouldn't reach? I mean, do we have to do a sort ofjurisprudential striptease and decide this one case, leavingopen this question? I don't understand why we wouldn'tdecide it. MR. CRUZ: And Texas is not urging the Court not todecide it. It is simply saying that is an avenue should theCourt decide to decide -- to rule on this case in a morenarrow ground, that is an avenue that would provide somerelief to Texas because it would vacate the Fifth Circuitdecision and it would allow ultimately for some relief forMr. Haley as well. QUESTION: So you come back and fight another day? , Inc. MR. CRUZ: Well, or perhaps someone else wouldfight in a different circuit. QUESTION: But if the court views this as apreliminary question, a question that the Fifth Circuit andany other Federal court should have reached logically beforeit reached the question on which it decided the case -­MR. CRUZ: Yes, Justice -­QUESTION: -- then we should put the court back inthe position that it should have been in if it handled thecase correctly. MR. CRUZ: Justice Ginsburg, we certainly agreethat as a matter of thinking through procedural default,that courts should begin with cause and prejudice, that theactual innocence exception as a potential trump card shouldnot be jumped to first. QUESTION: Well, that just means it made twomistakes. Number one, if this theory that you're opposingdid exist, it shouldn't have reached it first, okay? Itshould have reached it second. Mistake one. And numbertwo, according to you, is this theory doesn't exist anyway. MR. CRUZ: And -­QUESTION: I don't see why it's more intelligentfor us to reach the first question than the second if -- ifthere isn't any such thing as number one and number two. Ifthe only one that exists is number one, it seems to me we, Inc. should say so. MR. CRUZ: And, Justice Scalia, I agree entirelywith your characterization of the errors made by the courtbelow. QUESTION: May I ask this question? I alwaysthought there was a manifest injustice exception to theprocedural default rule, and as I understand it, theGovernment concedes there was injustice at the end of theirbrief. They say it's less significant, it's a less -­qualitatively less significance than if you put an innocentman to death. But is it not manifest that there wasinjustice in this case? MR. CRUZ: Justice Stevens, I -- I do not believeit is. It -- it is manifest that there was error -­QUESTION: Well, can you give me an example of whenmanifest injustice would exist other than a death case? MR. CRUZ: There are a host of instances in whichthis Court has held that actual constitutional errors shouldnonetheless not be addressed because the defendant hasprocedurally defaulted that. QUESTION: Well, I understand that, but is thereany -- any content to the manifest injustice exception inyour view? MR. CRUZ: Absolutely there is. The paradigmaticcase -­ , Inc. QUESTION: Well, give me an example. MR. CRUZ: -- is an individual was is innocent ofthe crime. QUESTION: Well, he's innocent of the crime he's in-- in prison for. MR. CRUZ: He is innocent only in the mosttechnical of legal sense. In the ordinary sense of theword, he committed the theft, he committed the predicatefelonies -­QUESTION: No, but if the law were followed, hewould have been released a long time ago, would he not? MR. CRUZ: If he had raised his objection. QUESTION: What -- what actually -- what was hecharged with, Mr. Cruz? What was the substantive offenseand what were the recidivist offenses? MR. CRUZ: He was charged with theft, and that wasenhanced to a state jail felony because he had committed twoprior thefts. And then upon sentencing, his sentence wasaggravated because he was a habitual offender and had twoprior felony convictions. Now, the indictment alleged thatthey were sequential and it turned out that allegation wasincorrect. QUESTION: Well -­QUESTION: They -- they were sequential. I mean,one followed another. Isn't what it comes down to is that, Inc. he should have been -- he should have been given this longersentence for the second theft instead of for the thirdtheft? MR. CRUZ: No, actually, Justice Scalia, the waythe statute reads -­QUESTION: As I understand it, the -- the -- thetheft that -- that was used for recidivism occurred daysafter, right, the --MR. CRUZ: It's a -- it's a -day disparity. Thefirst crime was delivery of amphetamines. QUESTION: Yeah. MR. CRUZ: And he committed that in , but thatconviction did not become final until October th, . Three days before October th, , he committed attemptedrobbery, and the way the Texas statute reads, he has tocommit the second felony after the first felony convictionbecomes final. QUESTION: But why did the first felony take solong to become final? It took -- you say it took years? MR. CRUZ: It -- it did. I don't know the extentto which that was discovery in the trial, but that -- that'sultimately what the record reveal in terms of when thatconviction -­QUESTION: At -- at trial, do you think theprosecutor would have, if he had noted this error, have the , Inc. duty to call the attention of the trial judge before thetrial judge imposed sentence? MR. CRUZ: Absolutely, absolutely. And -- and -­QUESTION: But the trial obligation -- the triallawyer's obligation to do justice is -- is somehow missingin your office? MR. CRUZ: The state has an obligation to be candidwith the court, so at any point in which the state becameaware of this error, the state would be obliged to informthe court, but that's a very different thing to say thatwhen there is a procedural default, when the defendant hasnot preserved his error, that the state should not act tovindicate that procedural default. There is an importantvalue in protecting the procedural rules in the State ofTexas, and that value is not served. I mean, ultimately,this Court has said that the very narrow exception of actualinnocence should apply in very narrow circumstances. Sothis Court has ultimately engaged in a balancing, abalancing that derives from prior language in the -- in theFederal habeas -­QUESTION: Well, narrow circumstances, when therecord makes it perfectly clear that an error has beencommitted and an innocent person is in jail, that's -- whatmore do you need? MR. CRUZ: The difficult -­ , Inc. QUESTION: There aren't many cases like this. MR. CRUZ: It is true that there are not many caseswhere the state concedes error, but the difficulty withpivoting the test on that is the basic operating premise ofevery habeas petition. Where procedural default is raisedis that the petitioner has valid claim and this Court hasnot hesitated to allow far more significant claims not to beaddressed because of procedural default. QUESTION: Yes, but usually the valid claim is someprocedural error in the trial, something of that character. It's not that he's totally innocent and everybody agreeshe's totally innocent. MR. CRUZ: This -- this Court has addressedprocedural default in the context of forced confessions, inthe context of statements without Miranda rights, in thecontext of psychiatry -­QUESTION: But that -- but -- but -- no, what youneed to satisfy Justice Stevens is -- is a case where themistake unquestionably caused the outcome of the -­unquestionably caused the outcome of the trial to be wrong. All of the ones you just mentioned, it may have caused it tobe wrong, may not have, you don't -- the jury might haveconvicted him without the confession, et cetera, et cetera. Do you have any cases where -- where, as here, there is nodoubt that the procedural default produced a different, Inc. outcome in the trial? MR. CRUZ: We do not have any cases like that, butthat aspect simply goes to prejudice, and this Court hasrepeatedly cautioned that the actual innocence exceptionshould not be used to transform cause and prejudice just toprejudice. There's no doubt that this error causedprejudice. The only question is if there was cause for notraising it, and in terms of asking -- I mean, JusticeStevens asked me about, is this a manifest injustice. Thereseems nothing on the face of it that is plain to me thatallowing an individual to be convicted and to remainconvicted and serve in jail or even be executed based on aforced confession is somehow a lesser injustice thanallowing Mr. Haley to serve a sentence -­QUESTION: I think it's a lesser injustice if he'sreally guilty of the crime. MR. CRUZ: But in this case, Mr. Haley is guilty ofthe theft, he's guilty of the predicate offense -­QUESTION: He is not guilty of what he's in prisonfor. MR. CRUZ: Only in the sense -­QUESTION: And I don't think the days is anargument that has any merit. You'd make the same argumentif it was years. You'd make the same argument. MR. CRUZ: It is -- it is true that days or , Inc. days or whatever does not matter. What matters, and what weare urging, is that Mr. Haley had multiple avenues tochallenge this. He could have challenged this at trial. Hecould have challenged this on direct appeal. QUESTION: If he could deliberately refuse to do itin order to trap the state into some kind of mistake, isthis a case of, you know, in our original case that we talkabout gamesmanship and so on, do you think this isgamesmanship on his part? MR. CRUZ: You know, we don't have reason tosuggest that Mr. Haley in this instance was engaged ingamesmanship with respect to this error, but the record issusceptible to an interpretation that his counsel wasengaged in gamesmanship with respect to whether or not Mr.Haley pleaded to the enhancements. Because what happened attrial is Mr. Haley's attorney urged the trial court, myclient doesn't want to plead, please go ahead, he's notgoing to plead. The trial court did what the counsel askedand he immediately, on direct appeal that was his principalchallenge, and that is one possible interpretation of therecord is the counsel was attempting to sandbag. There wasa line of state court cases saying it was mandatory errornot to plead. QUESTION: Well, if the counsel sandbagged for thepurpose of getting a -year sentence instead of a -year , Inc. sentence, doesn't that demonstrate that he was incompetent? (Laughter.) MR. CRUZ: It may well, and I certainly wouldn'turge that counsel engaged in good strategic decisions, butit may have been a strategic decision with respect to urgingthe court to commit an error under state law that caused thecounsel not to notice the disparities in the enhancements. QUESTION: In one of the proceedings, Texas didtake the position that there -- this was not ineffectiveassistance of counsel. The reply brief I think makes itclear that you're not disputing that the -- that theineffective assistance of counsel claim is alive and well. But there was a time you took a different view. MR. CRUZ: That -- that is correct, and we agree atthis point there is a very significant argument ofineffective assistance of counsel, and I would note that thecourt of criminal appeals in Texas has found ineffectiveassistance of counsel in almost precisely the samecircumstance where a counsel failed to notice the non­sequential nature of felonies used to enhance a habitualoffender in the decision of Ex parte Scott, which is foundat S.W.d . If there are no further questions, I'd like toreserve the balance of my time. QUESTION: Very well, Mr. Cruz. , Inc. Mr. Roberts, we'll hear from you. ORAL ARGUMENT OF MATTHEW D. ROBERTS ON BEHALF OF THE UNITED STATES AS AMICUS CURIAE SUPPORTING THE PETITIONER MR. ROBERTS: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it pleasethe Court: The actual innocence exception applies in theextraordinary case where a prisoner has been convicted of acrime that he did not commit. The Court shouldn't extendthat narrow exception to the very different situation wherethe prisoner is guilty of the crime of which he wasconvicted. QUESTION: Well, what should we do in this casewith someone who -- who is serving an unjust sentence underthe law? MR. ROBERTS: Well -- well, Your Honor, even ifthis Court holds that the actual innocence exception doesn'tapply to non-capital sentencing, respondent may well beentitled to relief here. QUESTION: On the inadequate assistance claim? MR. ROBERTS: On the ineffective assistance claim,and I -­QUESTION: Do you urge that that's waived, or canthe court below address it? MR. ROBERTS: We don't believe that it's waived,, Inc. Your Honor. QUESTION: Thank you. QUESTION: Why not go to that first and tell themto do that, because this is just very difficult, that thatwould be the reason? The reason it would be difficult isbecause actual innocence is simply a way at getting atmanifest injustice, I think, and a reason that this fits inthe manifest injustice is we feel differently aboutsubstantive laws that govern how long a person is going tobe in prison than we do about procedural laws, andsentencing is an aspect of that. But if you take that and say, look, this is anabsolute obvious case where there was just wrong sentencing,it's not actual innocence, it's wrong sentencing, but it'sso obvious, it's so clear that this is just unjust. Oncewe're down that path, I mean, how do we draw a line betweenthat and every sentencing error? Now, I'm just -­MR. ROBERTS: That -- that's -­QUESTION: -- I'm getting you to -­MR. ROBERTS: -- but that's right, Your Honor -­QUESTION: -- I know that's just what you weregoing to say -­MR. ROBERTS: -- and that's our primary -- that'sour primary concern here. QUESTION: All right. But is the answer then not , Inc. to deal with it when it's clear? MR. ROBERTS: Well, the -- the Court certainlycould do that. There is a danger I think in -- inaddressing the actual innocence exception in a case wherethere's cause and prejudice and so you don't need to addressit, and in a case where the error is -- is clear when whatthe real concern is when it's not that clear about whethersomebody's actually innocent. QUESTION: So you're saying it would be wise tosend it back, is that right? MR. ROBERTS: It -- it -- yes, except that, youknow, certainly our -- our primary interest in the questionhere is in the question that's divided the circuits and inmaking clear that there isn't a broad actual innocenceexception as applied to -- to non-capital sentencing. QUESTION: Perhaps when it's clear it will alwaysbe the case that there's been ineffective assistance ofcounsel. How -- how could it be, you know, clear as day andineffective assistance of counsel not -- not haveintervened? MR. ROBERTS: That -- that's -- that's right, YourHonor. It may well frequently be the case, which is why youwouldn't need the actual innocence exception for that -- forthat circumstance. But -- but our concern is that a rulethat applies to the exception where the prisoner is guilty , Inc. of the crime and is claiming only that he's suffering anexcessive prison term, if taken to its logical conclusion,that would open up final judgments where a criminaldefendant is belatedly claiming that a sentencing guidelinewas incorrectly applied to him and that he's thereforeinnocent of the sentence. QUESTION: Well, suppose -- suppose this were theFederal system. Would the Department of Justice take theposition that it would not ask sua sponte that this sentencebe reduced? MR. ROBERTS: We -- we well might not have appealedfrom the district court judgment in this case. If theGovernment takes an appeal, the Solicitor General office hasto -- has to approve those appeals and we would certainly -­QUESTION: That's one tremendous advantage theGovernment has over individual criminal defendants' lawyers,isn't it? They choose the facts they want to bring here. (Laughter.) QUESTION: Well, they do, don't they? MR. ROBERTS: Well, we certainly would -- wouldtake into account the entire situation in -- in making adetermination on that, Your Honor. QUESTION: You think there might be some doubt thatthe Department of Justice would insist that -­MR. ROBERTS: I -- I hate to predict it -­ , Inc. QUESTION: -- a -- a -year -- an unlawful ­year term? MR. ROBERTS: -- in any case, but I would expectthat if it was clear that there was cause and prejudice thatwas -- that a case involved a situation where the prisoner ­-QUESTION: Forget cause and prejudice. Suppose theterm is unlawful and it's conceded to be unlawful. Are youtaking the position the Department of Justice says he has tobe held anyway? MR. ROBERTS: I -- I -­QUESTION: I'm -- I'm astounded by that. MR. ROBERTS: I'm not -- I'm -- I'm not taking theposition of that, Your Honor. I just -- I hesitate to -- tomake a prediction about some future case where I don't knowall the facts. I certainly think that if -- if, in a caselike this where a prisoner was clearly entitled to -- had -­had cause and prejudice and was entitled to relief, that wewould call that to the attention of the -- of the districtcourt or to the attention of the court of appeals. QUESTION: Mr. Roberts, you now say ineffectiveassistance of counsel claim, I think you answered that thatwas preserved. But I noticed that you were very careful inyour brief to say twice if -- if Haley preserved theineffective assistance of counsel -­, Inc. MR. ROBERTS: Right. QUESTION: -- argument. MR. ROBERTS: We -- I -- I -- we think that it's aquestion to be decided by the -- the court of appeals on -­on remand, Your Honor, and the state had made argumentsabout whether it was preserved or not. Justice O'Connorasked me my opinion as to whether the -- whether the claimwas preserved, and in -- in our view it was, but that wouldbe a question for the lower court to -- to decide, andapparently the state is no longer arguing that -- that itwasn't preserved. As I said, our -- our -- the -- the issue thatwe're primarily concerned about here is a broad extension ofthe actual innocence exception to an erroneous prison term,and that would involve substantial societal costs, becausethe challenges to the findings -­QUESTION: Would it involve all those costs if wecan find the exception to cases in which the stateacknowledges the error? MR. ROBERTS: Well, that would certainly be a farless problematic exception. QUESTION: Would it be problematic if we limit itthat way? MR. ROBERTS: No, Your Honor, except to the extentthat it -- it extended -- extends actual innocence beyond an, Inc. offense which has a special constitutional status. QUESTION: Are we free to write this code ofcriminal procedure? I mean, I can understand all thesearguments being made to, you know, to Congress or -- or tothe state legislatures for writing a code of criminalprocedure, but what is -- what is the -­MR. ROBERTS: Well, well, the -­QUESTION: -- justification for this -­MR. ROBERTS: -- these rules are -­QUESTION: -- something which has never been donein -- in a couple of hundred years is -- is -- is part ofdue process? MR. ROBERTS: No, Your Honor. My understanding isthat the actual innocence exception and the proceduraldefault rules are court-made limitations on the jurisdiction-- on the exercise of discretion by the Federal habeascourt, and so the court's exercising its -- its supervisoryauthority over the courts. QUESTION: No, but the Federal habeas court has tobe relying upon some law to -- to undo the state conviction,right? MR. ROBERTS: Yes, Your Honor. There has to be anunderlying claim. QUESTION: Yeah. MR. ROBERTS: But we're talking here about the , Inc. actual innocence exception, which is a gateway toconsideration of that underlying claim. There -- therestill has to be an underlying constitutional claim, and -­and that -­QUESTION: Mr. Roberts, why is it -­MR. ROBERTS: -- that's an issue that's not beforethe Court whether there is -- is such a claim. QUESTION: Why is this qualitatively different fromthe rule in Jackson against Virginia that if there's noevidence to support the conviction, we set it aside, thenyou presume the guy's innocent? MR. ROBERTS: Well -- well -- Jack -- Jackson, YourHonor, is based on Winship, which is based on therequirement of proof beyond a reasonable doubt of theelements of the crime. When you're talking about sentencing--that -­QUESTION: Well, when the record is perfectly clearMR. ROBERTS: -- there is no such constitutionalrequirement. QUESTION: When the record is perfectly clear thatone of the elements hasn't been proved, why he had a -- whyisn't it the same here? The record establishes that one ofthe elements necessary for this conviction has not beenproven, the order of the -- the two crimes. , Inc. MR. ROBERTS: Well, I -- I respectfully disagreewith that, Your Honor. That -- the elements of the crimehave all been proved. They're not -- they're not disputed. What's disputed is -- is a factor leading to enhancement inthe sentence. If this was an element of the crime, we wouldagree with you that the actual innocence exception applieshere. QUESTION: If Apprendi had come out the other way,or if we extended Apprendi to recidivism? MR. ROBERTS: If you overruled Almendarez-Torres,we would agree that the actual innocence exception appliesin this particular case. QUESTION: Doesn't scare me. MR. ROBERTS: But again, our concern is with broadapplication of the actual innocence exception to sentencingand to the many findings that are involved there, and thefact is that the Court hasn't overruled Almendarez-Torres. We're talking about even in this case just an erroneoussentence. We're not talking about an innocence of anoffense with the special constitutional status that thatentails and the special stigma that's attached to innocent,to an offense. QUESTION: But Mr. Roberts, aren't we talking aboutjustice? You -- at the end of your brief you say, this isqualitatively less significant than it -- than killing, Inc. somebody for the wrong crime, but it is injust, isn't it? MR. ROBERTS: It -- there's -- there's certainunfairness involved, but the -- the manifest injusticeexception is not directed at -- at every -­QUESTION: The manifest injustice -­MR. ROBERTS: -- at every unfairness, and -­QUESTION: No, but it's a -- it's a -- it'sdirected at injustice that is manifest, not thedisqualitatively more than severe than it, and here it'smanifest. MR. ROBERTS: I -- it -- what the Court has done in-- in determining the application of exception is to weighthe -- the degree of injustice that would be involved indenying review against the substantial costs involved in -­in reviewing claims when there's -- the prisonersinexcusably failed to raise them in the proper forum and theproper time, and -­QUESTION: And you have difficulty weighing years of an unlawful sentence and saying that that's not amanifest injustice? That's a difficult exercise? MR. ROBERTS: I -- Your Honor, the -- the -- it --it's certainly an unfairness, but there are substantialcosts to -- to extending it to these many -- there are manyfactors that are involved in sentencing, and the fact is theprisoner's still guilty of the offense of conviction here, , Inc. Your Honor. QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. Roberts. Mr. Albritton. ORAL ARGUMENT OF ERIC M. ALBRITTON ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT MR. ALBRITTON: Mr. Chief Justice, may it pleasethe Court: This Court has repeatedly recognized that the -­the systemic concerns that underpin the procedural defaultdoctrine must yield to the imperative of correcting afundamentally unjust incarceration, an incarceration that isbeyond the statutory maximum sentence, whether it be acapital sentence or a non-capital sentence, is fundamentallyunjust. The Court has never limited this exception to acapital sentence context and it should not do so today. QUESTION: Well, it has never extended it beyondthe capital sentence context either, has it? MR. ALBRITTON: That is correct, Your Honor. However -­QUESTION: And there is some suggestion in ourcases that other claims ought to be addressed beforeresorting to that, such as inadequate assistance of counsel. MR. ALBRITTON: Your Honor, I agree that thisCourt's precedents suggest that ineffective assistance ofcounsel, cause and prejudice, should be addressed first. , Inc. However, this Court has never expressly held that. YourHonor, in relation to the question that I've been askedabout, should this Court just remand for consideration ofthe ineffective assistance of counsel claim, I wouldrespectfully suggest that that is not appropriate. In this case, Your Honor, the petitioner -­QUESTION: Why not? You think that counsel'sperformance was adequate here? MR. ALBRITTON: Your Honor, I think it was grosslyinadequate. However, the question presented by thepetitioner in this case, Your Honor, is only whether theactual innocence exception to the procedural default ruleconcerning Federal habeas corpus claims should apply to non-capital sentence here. QUESTION: Yes, but if it's our view that the courtbelow addressed that out of order too soon when it had analternative, certainly we could vacate and remand. MR. ALBRITTON: You could, Your Honor. QUESTION: Yes. MR. ALBRITTON: Again, I would respectfully suggestthat's inappropriate. The State of Texas could have arguedand presented the court with that particular question, thatis, whether or not the court should have reached cause andprejudice first. However, the State of Texas did not askthe court to consider that claim. , Inc. QUESTION: But we -- we haven't in -- in at leasttwo or three cases when we have a question of certiorari,we've said that there's a logically preceding question thathas to be decided before we can get to that. So it seems tome this might be that kind of a case. MR. ALBRITTON: Your Honor, I am familiar with thatprecedent, and I understand that the Court could -­QUESTION: Well, I guess you'd like your client outof jail? MR. ALBRITTON: That's absolutely correct, YourHonor, and the state didn't -­QUESTION: Doesn't sound like it. (Laughter.) QUESTION: Well, you -- you'd rather do it soonerrather than later, right? You'd rather have us say let himfree rather than send it back down and try it all overagain? MR. ALBRITTON: Absolutely, Your Honor. QUESTION: That seems reasonable. MR. ALBRITTON: If it's remanded, he's going to beincarcerated while it goes back through the court of appealsand through the district court, and if this Court decidesthat, this issue, that it cannot reach the issue presented,the Court can certainly dismiss this case as improvidentlygranted and Mr. Haley will no longer have to suffer under, Inc. the danger of this clearly -­QUESTION: Mr. Albritton, let me -- let me ask youthis. In this case there is a statute that would not haveallowed the additional sentence to be imposed unless thesethings were sequential. Suppose that wasn't the situation. Suppose what you are -- we're dealing with was a realsentencing factor of the sort that a judge can take intoaccount under a law which says the judge may sentence from to years, all right? MR. ALBRITTON: Yes, Your Honor. QUESTION: It's up to the judge. And in sentencinghim to the maximum, the judge makes a mistake of fact. Itis later found that when the judge said I'm giving him years because, you know, he's been a really bad person inlight of this background, and it turns out that backgrounddidn't exist, all right? Would you be making the sameargument here? MR. ALBRITTON: I absolutely would not, Your Honor. As we've argued in our brief -­QUESTION: That does make it sound like what thisis is Almendarez-Torres, that -- that -- the -- thedifference between the hypothetical I just posed to you andthis case is simply that the law would not allow theadditional time to be imposed unless the fact was found,whereas in the discretionary case, the law would have , Inc. allowed it. MR. ALBRITTON: Your Honor, we do not believe thatthe Court need reach Almendarez-Torres. However, the rulewe propose is certainly consistent with this Court's SixthAmendment rule in Apprendi. It's also consistent with -­QUESTION: Well, how -- how do you limit it to thatkind of a situation then? How -- how do you -- how do yougive me the answer that you've just given me, that eventhough you -- you -- you show that the judge who imposed adiscretionary sentence was absolutely wrong for the basis onwhich he imposed that discretionary sense, you wouldn'tallow that to be reviewed. Why -- what's the basis forthat? MR. ALBRITTON: Several reasons, Your Honor. Firstof all, this Court's decision in Sawyer v. Whitleyspecifically adopted an eligibility test, and thateligibility test draws the line at where that person isstatutorily eligible. This Court specifically rejected thenotion that it should consider discretionary factors in thecapital context mitigating evidence. Thus, Your Honor, our rule about statutoryeligibility is tethered specifically to the Court's rulingin Sawyer. Additionally, Your Honor, that rule that wepropose is well-rooted in this Court's habeas doctrinedating back to Townsend v. Burke, Your Honor. This Court , Inc. has recognized that a sentence that falls -- the severity ofa sentence that falls within a statutory range is notamenable to habeas review. Additionally, the recent case,Your Honor, of Harris v. the United States, where the issuewas whether Apprendi applied to mandatory minimums. ThisCourt held -- actually, part of the opinion is a pluralityopinion, but the holding is that the -- it does not matterif the sentence is more based on some false fact. The issueis, is it within range of punishment authorized by thelegislature, Your Honor. QUESTION: I understand that. I just don'tunderstand why it makes any sense if you've shown and canknow for sure that the only reason the judge imposed the years was that he believed a certain fact was true which infact was not true, and that is demonstrated, and he said,I'm opposing years because of this, otherwise, you know,this would be a -year sentence. And I -- there's just asmuch injustice there, it seems to me. MR. ALBRITTON: Well, Your Honor, the difference isin an error in what constitutes a fundamental miscarriage ofjustice, and we would respectfully suggest that when asentence is imposed outside of any range authorized by thelegislature, that is fundamentally unjust. QUESTION: But the other could be, couldn't it? I mean, that's -- what I don't understand about this area, and , Inc. you've read the cases and so you may able to be clearer thanI am and can correct me, I've thought that the real keyconcept is not actual innocence. It's very hard to applythat to a sentence. You're guilty of the crime, you're notinnocent of the sentence. That doesn't make sense, butrather manifest injustice, and the key word is manifest. And so one could have manifest injustice inmillions of possible situations. You don't need absoluteclarity as to it applies to in between the guideline but notbeyond the guideline, but the key word is manifest, and ithas to be unjust and injustice first and foremost has to dowith being behind bars when the law says you shouldn't be,directly and simply, not through some procedural device. So thinking about it in that way, I would like youto tell me what cases of this Court stand as obstacles tothe way I'm thinking about it? MR. ALBRITTON: Your Honor, I believe that Sawyer, we believe that Sawyer v. Whitley stands as an obstacle tothat approach, because in Sawyer, Your Honor, the Courtspecifically rejected the notion that factors that affectthe sentence within the discretion of the sentencing bodyare not to be considered in the determination of whether ornot somebody -- or a petitioner is actually innocent of thatsentence. QUESTION: You see what I -- what I'm basically , Inc. interested in is, is the -- the concept actual innocencesimply a subdivision of the broader concept manifestinjustice? And so that actual innocence of the crimeitself, where manifest, is a basis for doing whateverhappens in habeas law. And if I know whether that's asubdivision, I then would have a better handle on the case. MR. ALBRITTON: Your Honor, I -- it is our positionthat innocence has been adopted as a touchstone for thedetermination of whether or not there is a manifestinjustice. The Court has determined that that properlytakes into consideration, that focus on innocence takes intoproper consideration the systemic interest in federalism,comity, and finality. Your Honor, although the -- the concept ofinnocence of punishment is awkward and recognized, Mr. Haleyis actually innocent of the fact alleged that caused for thesentence that is more than eight times the statutory -­QUESTION: Everybody's going to say they'reactually innocent. All -- I mean, you know, not everybody,but, you know, a very high percentage of prisoners in prisonsay, I was actually innocent, and the prosecution says, no,you're not actually innocent. So if that's really anexcuse, actual innocence, and if in fact that's really anexcuse in respect to a sentence, then why wouldn't everycase be open to the Federal habeas judge relitigating the , Inc. lawfulness of the conviction in terms of the evidence andrelitigating the sentence in terms of what was reasonable? MR. ALBRITTON: Those concerns, Your Honor,underpin the reason for the high standard of proof in thefirst instance, that is, clear and convincing evidence. Those concerns also, Your Honor, inform the reason for therule we proposed, and that is there is only a fundamentalmiscarriage of justice when a sentence is imposed that underthe true facts no sentencing body, judge or jury, could haveever done. QUESTION: All right. In your view, under the truefacts, a prisoner says the true facts are X, the state saysthe true facts are not X, and what's supposed to happen? MR. ALBRITTON: The court has to decide if thepetitioner has shown by clear and convincing evidence thathe or she, but for a constitutional violation, would nothave been eligible for that sentence. QUESTION: So -- so in your -- in your view, everycrime in a state court and every sentence in a state court,at least a big subset, are open to relitigation in theFederal court on the standard of whether there is clear andconvincing evidence that adds the factual matters, it wasthat the -- the state court was wrong? MR. ALBRITTON: No, Your Honor, not a large subset,only the subset of cases where the petitioner receives a , Inc. sentence for which he or she is statutorily ineligible. QUESTION: In -- in your -- in your view, Mr.Albritton, there's no requirement that this evidence benewly discovered, I take it? MR. ALBRITTON: That is correct, Your Honor. QUESTION: Mr. Albritton, it's a small subset ofthe state court cases, but it's a -- it's a -- it's a total-- it's not a subset at all of the Federal cases, right? Because we have a guideline system where, by statute, youare not allowed to impose any more than what the guidelinespermit, right? MR. ALBRITTON: That's not actually entirelyaccurate, Your Honor. QUESTION: Well, unless you -- sure, you -- you canmake a finding that -- where that finding hasn't been madethat this is somehow extraordinary, you cannot, by law,impose more than a certain amount of sentence. MR. ALBRITTON: In the -- in the Federal context,Your Honor, there are two things that are operating. Oneare the guidelines, but the second is the statutory range ofpunishment. The legislature has determined that within theapplication of the guidelines, that a sentence, up until andincluding the statutory maximum under some circumstances isappropriate. QUESTION: Oh no. , Inc. QUESTION: Yeah, but this guideline says thestatute says, Judge, you must apply the guideline rangeunless. Now, there are many situations where it isn't evenarguably unless, okay? MR. ALBRITTON: Yes, sir. QUESTION: So that means there is a statutoryrequirement that the judge impose the guideline sentence,four extra units or points if you had a gun, say. Theprisoner says, I didn't have a gun. The state says, I didhave a gun. And now you want to relitigate whether he had agun or didn't have a gun, whether the victim was seriouslyhurt or only gravely hurt, whether there was a threat or abrandishment or an actual use of the gun, all of which addpoints, and what you're saying is all of those things wouldbe relitigated in a habeas court, as long as the prisonercolorably can say, I have evidence that will show clearlyand convincingly the judge was wrong. MR. ALBRITTON: That is not correct, Your Honor. Under the rule we propose, the Federal court would only haveto engage in this exercise if the petitioner could establishby the requisite proof that he or she received a sentenceabove the statutory maximum. While it may be error in theapplication of the guidelines and there can be factualinaccuracies -­QUESTION: No, you were saying that, but judge -- I, Inc. knew you were saying that, but I think Justice Scalia'squestion was that he can't find, nor can I find, a logicalbasis for making that distinction. That's the problem. QUESTION: The sentence is unlawful if it goesabove the guidelines, which is why it can be set aside bythe appellate court. It is unlawful. MR. ALBRITTON: Your -- Your Honor, the differencebetween unlawful and a fundamentally unjust is an importantdistinction. As this Court has historically held from theearly notions of habeas when, even when habeas review in thefirst right, regardless of default, was much morecircumspect, the Court could always reach and always issuethe writ where a petitioner received a sentence that isoutside the statutory range. So it's a difference in the -­a situation where there may be an error and there may besome injustice, and a situation where the -- the injusticeis fundamental, Your Honor. That's the distinction. QUESTION: Mr. Albritton, there's -- there's onemisfit here. You -- you're trying to transpose to thesentencing area the actual innocence of the crime, precedentfrom the death penalty area. But this Court has said inHerrera that the actual innocence, first it has to be newevidence, and second, that it's only a gateway. And yousay, well, sure, it's only a gateway here, the gateway isJackson, sufficiency of the evidence. But the very same , Inc. thing that proves the actual innocence of the sentence iswhat establishes that you win on the constitutional point. And in the -- in the death cases, there isn't that -- thisis not overlap, this is total coincidence. MR. ALBRITTON: Your Honor, in this Court's opinionlast week in Banks v. Dretke, the Court recognized, as ithad previously in Stickler v. Greene -- Strickler v. Greene,that it is not unusual for the same facts to be used and anoverlap between those facts for the inquiry as to whether ornot the merits of the claim can be reached and the merits ofthe claim. As the Court held in Banks last week, YourHonor, the -- the same evidence was used to establish bothcause and prejudice, as well as the underlying merits of the-- of the Brady violation. It's not surprising that the same evidence wouldbe involved in this situation, Your Honor, because, afterall, the inquiry is extremely similar, and that is theinnocence of the petitioner and whether or not the stateproved as a due process matter the allegations that it wasrequired to. Your Honor, this -- this rule is a narrow rule forthe reasons we discussed. It does not reach the sentencingguideline issues. This holding under Apprendi -- under -­this Court's holding in Apprendi, Your Honor, requires allelements other than arguably some or some recidivist , Inc. allegations under Almendarez-Torres are required to bealleged and proved to a jury beyond a reasonable doubt sothat if a person is charged with a drug offense and thedifference in grams and grams affects the statutorymaximum, his or her actual innocence of that quantity isalready covered subject to -- subject -- is already subjectto the fundamental miscarriage of justice exceptionirrespective of what the court holds in the application ofSawyer to non-capital sentences. QUESTION: What -- and what -- what's yourauthority for that? Where -- where have we said that? Isthat part of your submission or are you saying that that'sexisting authority? MR. ALBRITTON: Your Honor, that's -- first of all,I believe, Your Honor, the Government just conceded that. Secondly, Your Honor -­QUESTION: But do you know on what basis? MR. ALBRITTON: Yes, sir. This Court has held inSchlup -­QUESTION: Okay. MR. ALBRITTON: -- that if you're actually innocentof the elements of the offense, then -- and you're able toestablish that -- then the fundamental miscarriage ofjustice exception applies. If the quantity of cocaine is anelement of the offense for Apprendi purposes -­ , Inc. QUESTION: Okay. MR. ALBRITTON: -- the failure to -- the innocenceof that fact would make the petitioner subject to the -­QUESTION: And that goes back to the Almendarez-Torres discussion you had with Justice Scalia? MR. ALBRITTON: Your Honor, it -- no, sir, it doesnot, because Almendarez-Torres only concerns certainrecidivist allegations. Apprendi applies to every otherfactors that raises -­QUESTION: I -- I -­MR. ALBRITTON: -- the statutory maximum. YourHonor, this rule can -- the exception that we're talkingabout can be administered with relative ease. As the Courtdiscussed in Sawyer, that's an important consideration indetermining whether or not the exception should be applied. The issue presented to a Federal district judge of actualinnocence of a non-capital sentence is easier to determineand it's more objective than, for instance, thedetermination Federal district judges are called upon todetermine whether or not a petitioner is statutorilyeligible for the death penalty. For instance, in the State of Texas, the statemust prove beyond a reasonable doubt that the petitionerconstitutes a future danger. In the State of Louisiana, forinstance, the state has to -- one of the statutory, Inc. aggravating factors are that the crime was committed in aheinous manner. Those inquiries are more subjective andless objective than the inquiry required under theapplication the -- of the exception that we propose. Additionally, Your Honors, the equities weighstrongly in favor of applying the rule in non-capitalsentences. Justice Scalia asked a question as to why thisrule may be necessary because there would always beineffective assistance of counsel, and frankly there's ananswer to that. And that answer is, there will not alwaysbe a meritorious -- under a meritorious claim and there willnot necessarily be ineffective assistance of counsel for onereason at least, and that is, under Carrier, this Court heldthat to rely on the ineffective assistance of counsel ascause in Federal court, that claim had to have been raisedbelow in the state court. So there could be a scenario, this scenario, ifMr. Haley had not properly raised ineffective assistance ofcounsel below in state habeas or on state appeal as requiredby state law, he would not be entitled to rely on thatineffective assistance of counsel for cause in Federalcourt, and so the court would be presented again with thisfundamentally unjust situation. QUESTION: Well, and there are also cases underFeretta where the defendant decides to represent himself. , Inc. MR. ALBRITTON: That is correct, Your Honor. YourHonor, what is unusual about this case additionally, aspointed out by the Court, the prosecutors -- we're -- wedon't suggest purposefully -- but the prosecutorsnevertheless caused the injustice in this case. The Stateof Texas prop -- improperly alleged that Mr. Haley's secondconviction or second prior offense was committed before -­or after the first became final. QUESTION: Well, are -- would you say, taking itfrom there to the future dangerous, that the -- theprosecutor was in error in the sense you refer to if healleged that the petitioner is going to be a future danger? Are all these allegations just going to be turned out thatway? MR. ALBRITTON: Not necessarily, Your Honor,because a prosecutor in good faith could certainly believethat the evidence would be sufficient to prove futuredangerousness beyond a reasonable doubt. QUESTION: Well, are -- are you suggesting theprosecutor in this case deliberately, when he alleged thething, knew that it was not -- wouldn't stand up? MR. ALBRITTON: I'm not suggesting that, YourHonor. However -­QUESTION: But then -- but then it really isn't abasis for distinguishing the two examples I gave you for, Inc. just you to say, well, in the first case the prosecutoracted in good faith. MR. ALBRITTON: Even if the prosecutor did not dothis intentionally, Your Honor, the error and the injusticeoriginated with the prosecutor. Not only did the prosecutor--QUESTION: Well, but you could say that about anallegation of future dangerous too. You have the -- that'salleged in the complaint, isn't it? MR. ALBRITTON: If future dangerousness is alleged,in reviewing the evidence there's a good faith belief tobelieve that there -- that person constitutes a futuredanger, that would be different than in this situation whereall the prosecutor had to do was look at its state's exhibitnumber , Your Honor, and read the dates. The prosecutorcould have discerned -­QUESTION: Well, or the defendant's attorney couldhave done that too, I suppose. MR. ALBRITTON: Absolutely, and he should have,Your Honor. Additionally, Your Honor, one of the -- thereasons for the narrow fundamental miscarriage of justiceexception is this notion of gamesmanship, and as pointed outin the briefs, it is our position that there would never beany rational incentive for a petitioner to engage ingamesmanship when there was conclusive evidence that , Inc. established he or she was not statutorily eligible for thesentence. Mr. Haley's case is a perfect example. Eventhough Mr. Haley was diligent and filed his state writ veryshortly after the court of criminal appeals in Texas denieddiscretionary review, he's ended up spending years more inprison than he was even authorized for under the statute. Additionally, Your Honor, in discussing thestate's interest in this case, it is the Federal habeascourt that in actuality is vindicating the Texas substantivelaw. Now that does not mean, of course, that there is nointerest of the state in its procedural laws. However, thatrecognition indicates that, in effect, there's a wash of theinterest here, which would not undermine the application ofthe fundamental miscarriage of justice exception in thiscontext. QUESTION: And it's -- it's a little, I suppose,patronizing in -- in some sense for us to say that thedistrict courts, Federal courts are vindicating Texas'interest in its own laws, although it's pretty obvious Texasdoesn't care about it in this case. MR. ALBRITTON: Certainly the -- the state doesn'tseem to care about that interest with its position here. However, I don't think it's -- we do not think it'spatronizing, Your Honor, because the Court is always , Inc. required to balance the equities of the situation anddetermine whether the exception to the procedural defaultrule should apply. And in this case, we think that it isquite relevant that you're discussing -- and it would be soin all cases such as this that, under the rule we propose,because the sentence would always be outside the rangeauthorized by the legislature for this particular conduct. Your Honors, in relation, briefly here at the endto Almendarez-Torres, we agree with the Solicitor Generalthat if Almendarez-Torres does not control, then this caseis -- is very easy and there need not be any application ofSawyer, and that is because, as I said earlier, he would beactually innocent of the enhanced offense of theft byhabitual offender. As pointed out in our brief, Almendarez-Torres is not controlling because in this case there is anadditional -- there is something else that must be proven inaddition to the fact of the prior convictions, and that isthe date of the commission of the second prior felonyoffense. For that reason -­QUESTION: Well, isn't that pretty much the tailwagging the -- the tail wagging the dog, I mean, if -- ifyou say that the date of the offense is -- is a separateelement? MR. ALBRITTON: Your Honor, the State of Texas inits judgment specifically required not only the -- in this , Inc. circumstance, not only the existence of two prior felonyconvictions, but that the second was committed after, excuseme, the conviction of the first. QUESTION: Yes, but you're -- you're telling usthat the -- that the existence of the prior offense is notan element, right, but -- but that the date of the prioroffense is -- is -­MR. ALBRITTON: That -- that is incorrect, YourHonor. What we allege is that it is not the focus on thesequence of the convictions. When sequence is used, it isshorthand to describe the -- when the second offense wascommitted, and the date of commission of that offense issomething separate and apart from the fact of those prior -­of that prior conviction. So, Your Honor, we wouldrespectfully suggest that takes this outside of Almendarez-Torres, and therefore the Court can -- can determine thatMr. Haley is actually innocent of the enhanced offense oftheft by habitual offender. Finally, Your Honor, in conclusion, I wouldrespectfully request the Court not to remand to the State ofTexas -- excuse me, to the courts below, unless it reachesthe question presented and decides it contrary to the FifthCircuit. If the Court decides that the ineffectiveassistance of counsel claim should have -- or cause andprejudice should have been reached first, since it was not , Inc. presented in the question presented, the Court should notreach any issue in this case. Mr. Haley should be able togo about his life and not be subject to a day more in prisonthat the state concedes is unlawful, and as the courtadvised -- as the state advised the district court, if thisCourt were to reverse, it intends to put Mr. Haley back inprison for an additional years that it specificallyadmits is unlawful and not authorized by the legislature,and a remand presumably would result in the same sort ofinjustice visited upon Mr. Haley by the state. For those reasons, Your Honor, I respectfullysuggest that the Court affirm the judgment of the FifthCircuit and hold that Mr. Haley has sufficiently establishedthat he is actually innocent, reach the merits of the claim,and -- and that's the only issue the Court needs to resolve. Thank you very much. QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. Albritton. Mr. Cruz, you have three minutes remaining. REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF R. TED CRUZ ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER MR. CRUZ: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice. I'd liketo quickly revisit an exchange Justice Scalia had with Mr.Albritton concerning Almendarez-Torres, and make the pointthat even if this Court were at some future date to decideto overrule Almendarez-Torres, which I don't believe is , Inc. presented in this case, that would not necessarily mean thatthe actual innocence exception would extend to non-capitalsentencing. The inquiries are altogether different. Theformer, what was at -- the case at common law at the time ofthe founding. The latter is, as the exchange illuminated, aquestion of what U.S.C. Section provides. And I would note , with respect to Federalhabeas, explicitly includes in its statutory text as one ofthe grounds for granting habeas that a sentence is, quote,in excess of the maximum authorized by law. That's in . It is not in . The only ground for granting habeas in with respect to a state conviction is if someone isheld in custody of violation of the laws or Constitution ofthe United States. And so it is altogether possible that this Courtcould decide at some future date to -- to overruleAlmendarez-Torres and then yet nonetheless decide that inlooking to the ends of justice that now repeal language fromthe habeas statute, that there is not an obligation toexcuse procedural default for every single conceivablesentencing error. QUESTION: But can I -- I just -- this is a case inwhich you yourself concede he shouldn't be in jail under thesubstantive law of Texas, and it is a case where youyourself agree there is a very big claim that the lawyer was , Inc. incompetent. If we send this back, is Texas going to moveto revoke his bail? MR. CRUZ: The -- the state is willing to allow theineffective assistance case to be litigated beforeproceeding to reincarcerate Mr. Haley, so we will wait untilthat -- that claim is resolved before -- before -­QUESTION: He's out while it's being litigated? MR. CRUZ: He -- he is out right now and the statewill leave him out until his claim is resolved with respectto that. With respect to the balance, which is -- which isultimately how this Court has analyzed the actual innocenceexception, on the one side I would submit there is verylimited need for extending the actual innocence exception tonon-capital sentencing. Cause and prejudice can addresssituations where relief is merited, such as perhaps Mr.Haley's. On the other side, there is the risk of expandingthat. Non-capital sentencing, unlike actual innocence, Ididn't do it, of the crime, unlike actual innocence ofdeath, non-capital sentencing is virtually ubiquitous. Interestingly, Mr. Haley's amici law professors in footnote of their brief acknowledge the ability of the slipperyslope to extend beyond just increasing the statutory maximumto sentences within a range and to a whole host of factorsthat the states used for sentencing factors, facts -­ , Inc. factors such as the amount of drugs, such as the value ofstolen goods, such as the status of a victim, whether thevictim is elderly, whether the victim is a police officer. QUESTION: What has been the -- the experience inthe circuits that have adopted this rule applying the actualinnocence to sentencing? There are two circuits, aren'tthere? MR. CRUZ: There have been relatively few casesthat have come up since those decisions, but I would notefirst of all we don't know what unpublished decisions areout there, and secondly, there's a significant differencebetween a circuit decision allowing an exception and adecision of this Court. CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: Thank you, Mr. Cruz. Thecase is submitted. (Whereupon, at : p.m., the case in the above-entitled matter was submitted.) , Inc. 