 IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XMICHAEL YARBOROUGH, WARDEN Petitioner ::v. : No. -MICHAEL ALVARADO. :- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XWashington, D.C.Monday, March , The above-entitled matter came on for oralargument before the Supreme Court of the United States at: a.m.APPEARANCES:DEBORAH J. CHUANG, ESQ., Deputy Attorney General, Los Angeles, California; on behalf of the Petitioner.JOHN P. ELWOOD, ESQ., Assistant to the Solicitor General,Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on behalf ofthe United States, as amicus curiae, supporting thePetitioner. TARA K. ALLEN, ESQ., Malibu, California; on behalf of theRespondent. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. C O N T E N T SORAL ARGUMENT OF DEBORAH J. CHUANG, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioner JOHN P. ELWOOD, ESQ.On behalf of the United States, as amicus curiae, supporting the Petitioner TARA K. ALLEN, ESQ.On behalf of the Respondent PAGE th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. P R O C E E D I N G S(: a.m.)CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: We'll hear argumentnext in No. -, Michael Yarborough v. MichaelAlvarado.Ms. Chuang.ORAL ARGUMENT OF DEBORAH J. CHUANGON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERMS. CHUANG: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court:For nearly decades, the ultimate inquiry as towhether a person is in custody is whether there is formalarrest or restraint in freedom of movement to the degreeassociated with formal arrest.The Ninth Circuit acknowledged that the Statecourt had identified the correct legal standard fordetermining custody, that no Supreme Court case hadaddressed whether age and experience needed to beconsidered for that determination, and that it wasborrowing legal principles from another area ofjurisprudence. Yet, it held that it was objectivelyunreasonable for the State court to have abstained frominnovating such a new role.This case illustrates why Federal habeas reliefcannot be granted under U.S.C., section (d), when a th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. State court decision does not extend Supreme Courtprecedent to a new context. Such relief is incompatiblewith the provisions of section (d) for three reasons.First, to require a State court to extrapolateSupreme Court precedents from the voluntariness context tothe custody context cannot be fairly characterized asapplying this Court's custody precedents.QUESTION: Ms. Chuang, there are two questionspresented in the petition for certiorari. One is what Itook it to be -- is the rule that the Ninth Circuitannounced correct under our precedents, and the second,under AEDPA, was it objectively unreasonable for the Statecourt to rule otherwise. Are you going to address boththose questions? MS. CHUANG: Yes, Your Honor. QUESTION: Thank you. MS. CHUANG: The Ninth Circuit fundamentallychanged the rule for resolving custody claims by juvenilesand, second, Federal law as determined by the SupremeCourt refers -- is limited to the Supreme Court'sholdings. The Ninth Circuit substituted its holding forthat of this Court when it recognized that this Court hadnever held so in the custody context.And third, to say that an extension of SupremeCourt precedent to a new context is clearly established th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. law would define clearly established at such a high --QUESTION: But how is it a new context? I mean,the -- the rule was how a reasonable man in the suspect'sposition would have understood his situation. So is itnew to say you -- I mean, it might be new if in fact therewas blind person and the agent who was holding him wroteon a note, you are free to leave. You know, he can't readit. Now, would you need a new, special Supreme Court caseto say that's ridiculous?MS. CHUANG: No, Your Honor. You -- you wouldnot. What --QUESTION: Then why do you need a new, specialSupreme Court to say a very young person might feel verydifferently about whether he's in custody from a person who's a -- not -- not a child and not a minor?MS. CHUANG: Well, because this Court'sprecedence as for custody determination has onlyconsidered the circumstances encountered by the person --QUESTION: Well, we haven't considered blindpeople either. We haven't considered deaf people whomsomeone might whisper, you're free to go. I mean, thepoint is it's so obvious that -- that being a child or ajuvenile would make a difference, that you don't have towrite it in all the cases. So my question is, why isn'tthat obvious? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. MS. CHUANG: I believe that the answer is thatthe ultimate inquiry for custody determinations is whetherthere is a formal arrest or restraint in freedom ofmovement. QUESTION: How old was the respondent in thiscase? -and-a-half, wasn't he?MS. CHUANG: Yes, Your Honor. He was -and-a-half years old during the interview.QUESTION: And I suppose, in the view of theNinth Circuit, he would have had to be treated quitedifferently if he were months older, if he were .MS. CHUANG: Yes, Your Honor. QUESTION: I thought --QUESTION: What -- what if he were ? Would --would you acknowledge that -- that that factor should betaken into account? MS. CHUANG: No, Your Honor, I don't believethat a -year-old -- that age and experience should beconsidered because the test -- the ultimate inquiry iswhether there is a formal arrest or restraint in freedomof movement.QUESTION: No, but that depends upon what areasonable person in the circumstances would understand tobe his situation whether a reasonable person would believehe was being detained. Isn't that the test? So, I mean, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. it doesn't -- it doesn't help to simply say that, youknow, the question is whether there's an arrest. Yes,there is. That is the question.But our standard for whether there has been anarrest is what would a reasonable person believe. Wouldhe believe he was arrested? Which gets you right backinto the determination of what a person would believe.Now, would we take into account the fact thatsomebody is years old?MS. CHUANG: We don't deny that a -year-oldwould certainly be more vulnerable to overall coercion. Yet, that is -- overall coercion is addressed by thevoluntariness test and really the custody question is onlyconcerned with one aspect of coercion and that is custody. And to --QUESTION: Why -- why isn't it? Look, I'm not-- I guess let me try again because I can understand you'dsay there's only months difference here. So in thiscase, being a juvenile didn't matter. But that's not whatyou're talking about.You're talking about the standard that says thenature of a person as a child or an adult is somethingthat can make a difference. All right? To custody. Youagreed being blind could make a difference to custody. You agree being deaf could make a difference to custody. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. Why can't being a child in principle make a difference tocustody? That's the question. And it has only to do withwhether the first part of your argument, not the second.MS. CHUANG: Well, Your Honor, I suppose that ablind person, if you hand the blind person a note saying,you are free to leave, would not -- you could not use thatnote as an indication that he was free to leave. Youcouldn't use that as a circumstance to show that he wasfree to leave.QUESTION: Well, isn't what you're objecting toin the Ninth Circuit's decision the idea that there issome sort of a bright line cutoff date when the personturns ? You don't deny that a person -- years oldwould be treated differently than a -year-old, I suppose, for determining the objective test. MS. CHUANG: That's correct, Your Honor. QUESTION: Is that -- I thought you said age isirrelevant.MS. CHUANG: Yes.QUESTION: That age is -- you -- you said age isirrelevant to the custody determination.MS. CHUANG: That's correct. Age --QUESTION: Other things like language is --language is relevant if the person doesn't -- is notconversant with English. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. MS. CHUANG: Language might not be relevant,Your Honor, because -- or -- or it might relevant becauseif the person did not understand English and the officersaid, you are free to leave, that is -- that is acircumstance that the person encountered that is withinthe officer's control that the -- and the person doesn'tunderstand English, that would be something that could notbe relied upon later on to show that he was -- heunderstood that he was free to leave. But then again,that might not mean that he could use it to show that hewas in custody as well. QUESTION: Let -- let me ask you about two factsin -- in this particular case. The first one is this. And correct me if I'm wrong. I think I'm right on these. When the -- when the sheriff's department wantedto question this -- this young man, they went to hisparents and the parents said, in effect, yes, we will --we will bring him down or take him down with us, and theytook him to the station, so that as I understand it, thesheriff's department didn't ask him to make a choice as towhether they would go down to the headquarters and talkwith him. The parents did that.The second fact I want you to comment on is thatwhen they got down there, the parents said, in the boy'shearing, can't we go in with him or can we go in with him? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. They -- they made it clear that they would like to go intothis interrogation. And the deputy sheriff said no, keptthem out. The sheriff and the boy disappeared. Are those two facts relevant in making thedetermination of whether he would reasonably understandthat he was being under -- held under conditionsequivalent to a formal arrest?MS. CHUANG: No, Your Honor, I don't believethey are relevant.QUESTION: Why -- why not? Why not?MS. CHUANG: Because once -- again, if his -- ifhis parents were asked for permission to interview, thedetective had asked the parents for permission tointerview him, and his parents said yes, the meaning of that question was that he could have said no, and --QUESTION: Wait a minute. You just lost me. How -- how is it that he could have said no?MS. CHUANG: He could have refused to havesubmitted to the interview, and there's no indication inthe record --QUESTION: Well, but he -- but he -- he didn't. His parents said, yes, you can interview him. We willbring him down, and the boy came along. That's all weknow.MS. CHUANG: That's correct, Your Honor. That's th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. -- that's what we know.QUESTION: And why is that? And that isirrelevant you say because the boy might have said, well,I won't go?MS. CHUANG: That -- yes, Your Honor. It's --QUESTION: You don't know whether he would havefelt free to say that or not, do you? Do we have anythingin the record on that?MS. CHUANG: There's no indication one way orthe other. But there was no indication that he was notvoluntarily being interviewed.QUESTION: Well, there is an indication. I -- Imean, that's what I'm trying to get at. The -- theindication is that he was taken down to the station houseby his parents. He didn't make the choice. And when theygot down there, the parents, who wanted to be presentduring the interrogation, were told that they couldn't.The -- the -- it seems to me that the objectiveappearance of -- of these two facts is, number one, theboy appears to be under the control of his parents and hisparents appear to be under the control of the sheriff'sdepartment when they get down to headquarters. And onthose two facts, I would think it would be difficult --standing alone, those two facts, it would be difficult toinfer that this boy would have felt that he was free to th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. turn around and -- and walk out of the interview andleave. And -- and I don't understand why those facts arenot relevant.MS. CHUANG: Well, Your Honor, I -- I -- there'sno indication, though, that he was at the stationinvoluntarily. Certainly he came with his parents, but --QUESTION: Well, the indication is that hisparents brought him. That's all we know.MS. CHUANG: Well, Your Honor, Mr. Alvarado --it indicated in the record that Mr. Alvarado lived at homewith his parents and that he did not have a car.QUESTION: He's a minor, isn't he?MS. CHUANG: Yes, Your Honor. QUESTION: He has to go where his parents tell him to, doesn't he? Isn't that what being in the statusof -- of a minor means, that if your parents tell you stayat home, you're grounded, you're grounded? Isn't thatessentially the disability of being a minor? So I guess maybe the proper inquiry is whetherhis parents thought that they could let him leave if theywanted to. Either that's the proper inquiry or perhaps nominor can be interrogated in -- in a police stationbecause it always requires the consent of the parents, andwhen the parents tells him, you know, you go beinterrogated, he thinks he can't leave. It's a terrible th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. problem, isn't it?MS. CHUANG: Well, Your Honor, I -- I believethat custody by -- custody in the sense of a parental andjuvenile situation is not the same as custody as you areunder formal arrest or restrained in freedom of movementto the same degree --QUESTION: Well, then that's the whole point. That's why I think Justice Souter asked that question,saying, look, you're -- you're used to your parentstelling you what to do and maybe even sometimes you do it. All right? (Laughter.) QUESTION: So the parents bring them down --bring him down. He doesn't think he has any choice. Hethen asks Ms. Comstock, I guess, who was the arrestingofficer that brought him in there, can I take my parentsin this room. The parents say we want to go in the room. And the policewoman -- I think it was a woman, wasn't it? I think she said no. And they, who desperately -- orcertainly want to get into the room, can't. So he'ssitting there and that, together with all the other thingsthat are going on -- and there are quite a few -- wouldlead a reasonable person, who's used to being under the --the rule of his parents, to think, my goodness, thispolice woman controls the situation. Of course, I have to th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. do what she says, and of course, I can't leave until, asshe said, I've finished answering the question and she can-- tells me I can leave. I'm in custody. Now, maybe anadult wouldn't be thinking that. Maybe he would. Butthat's a reasonable question.But our standard here is, you know, not whetherthey were right in the State but whether they werereasonable. But a juvenile certainly would be thinkingthat. That's -- that's I think what the point is. Now, I'd like to hear sort of a full-blownresponse to that. MS. CHUANG: Yes, Your Honor. Well, first a --QUESTION: Just as full-blown as the question. QUESTION: I mean, not just yes or no. (Laughter.) MS. CHUANG: Yes, Your Honor. A juvenile -- unless the Court is willing to saythat the parents in this case operated as agents of lawenforcement by bringing him into the sheriff's station andthat when the officer -- the detective had asked him if he-- if the parents would give permission, that somehow thatreally wasn't an option that the detective was giving, Mr.Alvarado was not in custody.QUESTION: What I -- what I can't understand --and this was Justice Souter's question. Forget how these th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. factors play out one way or the other. Are these factors-- the circumstance that the parents brought the juvenileto the station; two, that the parents wanted to go in orasked someone -- asked to go in and they couldn't -- arethose objective factors that the Court can consider in thecustody determination?MS. CHUANG: No, Your Honor, because --QUESTION: So -- so if -- if the defense counselbring this up, the judge rules that it's to be excluded. It's irrelevant. MS. CHUANG: Yes, Your Honor. QUESTION: All right. MS. CHUANG: Because as this Court alluded to inColorado v. Connolly what the Fifth Amendment is concerned with is government coercion, and to the extent that theparents brought Mr. Alvarado to the station, that is notgovernment coercion. And as far as the parents not being allowed inthe interview room, there -- Mr. Alvarado actually did notpresent any evidence that his parents were not permittedinto the interview room. And indeed, the interview roomdoor was open, as indicated at joint appendix page .QUESTION: Well, would yo just correct me on thefacts? I thought the -- the record indicated that theparents had asked to go in, and as Justice Breyer pointed th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. out, that in fact the boy at one point said, you know, doI have to go alone? Isn't anybody coming with me? Are --are -- is there testimony to that effect in the record?MS. CHUANG: No, Your Honor. There is notestimony to that. Indeed, it was only argued by hisattorney, but his attorney relied upon the transcript ofthe interview.QUESTION: This was at the suppression hearing.MS. CHUANG: Yes, Your Honor. QUESTION: Okay.MS. CHUANG: And --QUESTION: Did -- did the State object to thosefacts as being untrue and not in evidence? MS. CHUANG: Well, the State didn't -- no, Your Honor. The State did not, but the -- the State wasrelying on the fact that it was the interview transcriptthat Mr. Alvarado's counsel was using, and indeed, at thetrial when Mr. Alvarado testified, he never stated that heasked for his parents to be in there, and he had testifiedthat he didn't feel coerced or --QUESTION: May I --QUESTION: Where -- where did this fact comefrom? It's in the interview transcript?MS. CHUANG: I'm sorry?QUESTION: Where did this fact or factoid come th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. from that -- you know, that -- that his parents wanted togo in but they were told they couldn't? Where did it comefrom?MS. CHUANG: His -- it came from his attorney'sargument during the suppression hearing.QUESTION: It's not in any evidence. MS. CHUANG: No, Your Honor. It's not in anyevidence. And to say that -- to require the State courtto extrapolate from this Court's voluntariness precedentsthat predated Miranda to decide what types of individualcharacteristics needed to be considered for a Mirandacustody, is not what section (d) requires. Section(d) --QUESTION: May -- may I ask this one question? I thought you conceded that if he were only years old,that would be relevant. And the question presented iswhether age is ever relevant. What -- what is yourposition exactly? Is it it's okay to consider it if he's but not if he's -and-a-half?MS. CHUANG: No. Actually, Your Honor, it --yet -- we -- my position is that a -year-old age wouldstill be irrelevant. It might be relevant for thevoluntariness as to overall coercion.QUESTION: But not as to whether he thinks he'sfree to leave. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. MS. CHUANG: That's correct. The Californiacourt of --QUESTION: Do you know any other category whereage is ever and always irrelevant, any other category inthe law?MS. CHUANG: Yes, Your Honor. In the FourthAmendment seizure area, this Court has held that it's areasonable person, and indeed in Hodari D. v. California,this Court used the -- the reasonable person standardwithout considering age. While this Court did mention agein the Kaupp case, which was cited by Mr. Alvarado, it'suncertain to what degree age actually was relevant for theseizure question, whether a person felt free to leave.A better reading of Kaupp is that it was -- the Court may have mentioned the Mr. -- the age of thedefendant in that case for the voluntariness ofaccompanying the officers to the station, as this Courtindicated with a citation of Royer v. -- Royer and alsoSchneckloth. Both of those cases indicate that age doesgo to the voluntariness of consenting to go with officers.The California Court of Appeal in this caseidentified the correct standard for making a custodydetermination, and it engaged in a reasonable applicationof existing custody precedent. The Ninth Circuitrecognized no Supreme Court case has required age and th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. experience to --QUESTION: Thank -- thank you, Ms. Chuang.MS. CHUANG: Thank you. QUESTION: Mr. Elwood, we'll hear from you.ORAL ARGUMENT OF JOHN P. ELWOODON BEHALF OF THE UNITED STATES,AS AMICUS CURIAE, SUPPORTING THE PETITIONERMR. ELWOOD: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court:The Ninth Circuit erred when it held that ajuvenile's age and experience must be considered indetermining whether or not he is in custody for purposesof the Miranda test.QUESTION: Do you agree that the fact that the parents brought the person to the station and that theywere -- requested to be in the room it -- are -- are notrelevant to the custody determination?MR. ELWOOD: I think that they can be consideredby the court in determining the -- the circumstancessurrounding the interrogation, just as in Oregon v.Mathiason they considered the fact the -- the person cameto the station on his own power.QUESTION: So that they are relevant to theobjective inquiry whether or not a reasonable personthought he was under custody in these circumstances. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. MR. ELWOOD: I think that they are facts thatcan be considered by a -- under the reasonable personstandard to determine whether a reasonable person wouldhave felt that he was not free to leave or rather that hewas under formal arrest at that point.QUESTION: So you disagree with the State onthat point.MR. ELWOOD: I -- I think it's a -- it's aslightly different viewpoint because I -- I don't thinkthat's what the Ninth Circuit was getting at. What theNinth Circuit was basically saying is that you don'temploy the reasonable person standard. You, rather,employ a reasonable juvenile standard, and you view allthe circumstances differently. I think, though, that you can consider the factthat he -- particularly the alleged fact that he -- hisparents were excluded from the interview in determiningwhat a reasonable person would have felt from that. Unfortunately, because it was simply argued by hisattorney at the suppression hearing and there were nofindings on it, we don't know exactly how that happened. If --QUESTION: But it is true there was testimony onit, is it not?MR. ELWOOD: I -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. QUESTION: The -- the -- page of the red briefgives transcript cites for -- as Michael -- his parentsasked if they could come in and Detective Comstock refusedto do it.MR. ELWOOD: I -- I -- I don't -- unfortunately,I -- I left my transcript at my seat, but it may be thatthe defendant testified at the trial itself that that iswhat occurred.QUESTION: J.A. --MR. ELWOOD: In any event, we don't have anyfindings from the State court about what exactlytranspired. I think that if the --QUESTION: But your view is different from yourcolleague. She said there was nothing in the record. Yousay there are just no findings on it.MR. ELWOOD: That's correct, that there are nofindings on it and that we have the lawyer's assertion andwe may have -- I -- I don't recall -- the defendant's owntestimony at the -- the trial itself. But in any event, our point with respect to theexclusion is you have to look at what -- how a reasonableperson would view that, not necessarily a reasonablejuvenile, but a reasonable person. And if the --QUESTION: But do you think the child whoseparents were denied permission to come into the room would th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. draw any inference about whether he could leave at --anytime he wanted to?MR. ELWOOD: Again, I think it depends on how itwas put because if they just say, no, you may not come in,I think a reasonable person could conclude from that thatthey're exercising control over the interrogation and thatthey -- that might extend to whether or not he's free togo. However, if it -- the officer says something morealong the lines of, no, we'd rather you not because he'll-- he'll be able to be more candid if there's no one elsein there with you, I think that that would express a verydifferent --QUESTION: Do you think it would make adifference in that inquiry if the person being interrogated was years old, on the one hand, and years old on the other hand?MR. ELWOOD: I think that it doesn't make alegal difference for Miranda purposes, and that's ourbasic argument, is that Miranda doesn't -- didn't developa rule that provides protection tailored for the specificcircumstances of -- of the person who's underinterrogation. Rather, it's a uniform rule that providesthe same level of protection for all people, regardless ofwhether they're very experienced of inexperienced. And Ithink -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. QUESTION: And you're telling me that the -year-old example and the -year-old example should betreated precisely the same.MR. ELWOOD: I think that they should be treatedthe same for purposes of the Miranda prophylactic rule. They should not be treated differently for voluntariness.QUESTION: For the purposes of determiningwhether he thinks he's in custody.MR. ELWOOD: Yes, that is correct. And I thinkthat traditionally what the Court has done is it hasviewed the circumstances that you look to, the totality ofthe circumstances, as being external to the reasonableperson. I think that's the inference you get fromThompson v. Keohane.QUESTION: A person of borderline competency whodoesn't speak the language is -- we don't consider thata --MR. ELWOOD: You don't consider that forpurposes of the -- of the altering the reasonable personview. You don't say a reasonable person of borderlinecompetency. You can, I think, consider it for differentpurposes like in Justice Breyer's example of the blindperson. One of the very important things to figure outbefore you apply the reasonable person standard and ourbasic objection to the Ninth Circuit's rule is it altered th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. the reasonable person standard and said it's a reasonablejuvenile standard when you're determining --QUESTION: All right. So your point is insteadof having a standard of a reasonable blind person, youhave a standard of a reasonable person and one -- in thecircumstances and one of the circumstances is that he'sblind.MR. ELWOOD: But one of the reasonable under thecircumstances --QUESTION: Is that the point?MR. ELWOOD: It's not quite right, but it'sgetting there.QUESTION: No. And -- and then you say it soit's right.MR. ELWOOD: The point is that one -- one of theimportant factors to determine when you're figuring outwhat the totality of the circumstances is that you applythe reasonable person test to is what police officers toldthe person about his freedom to leave. And if you --QUESTION: I understand all that. I'm trying toget what your objection is to the standard. I'm nottalking about this case now. And is the right way to sayit that we don't apply a reasonable blind person test, weapply a reasonable person test in the circumstances, andone of the circumstances is that he's blind. Now, you th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. said, no, that isn't the right way. Then what is theright way?MR. ELWOOD: I -- I think that you can consider-- I think we might be saying basically the same thing butjust slightly different --QUESTION: I want you to say it --MR. ELWOOD: I'm trying to get --QUESTION: -- so that I understand what yourstatement is. MR. ELWOOD: Is that the -- is the -- is thatthe person -- you can consider what the police officercommunicated to them, and when you're figuring out whatthe police officer communicated to them, the policeofficer doesn't get to, you know, pretend that a blind person can see. They have to take into consideration thatwhen you hand them a written notice, they're not going tosee it, just as though -- just as if you whispered it tothem in a voice too low for them to hear. The basic pointis that you didn't communicate anything to them. And our objection to the Ninth Circuit'sstandard is they're trying to make you view the entireworld through the viewpoint of a reasonable juvenile,which means that we're not talking about whether or notthe person was unable to leave the room when they wantedto because they couldn't reach the doorknob because they th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. were short. The point is that we're trying to infersomething about the way they view the entire world becausethey're a juvenile. Because they're a juvenile, they'remore likely to be submissive to authority. Becausethey're a juvenile, they're more likely to feel that --that anything that the police officer says is a command.And I think that it's very different to adopt awhole different world view thing versus simply askingpolice officers to take notice of things that areobjectively very plain or rather observable and veryplain, such as a blind person cannot see the warning thatyou give him. And I think that that is the basicdifference between what is permissible under thereasonable person test, as it has always been applied, and the Ninth Circuit's innovation of it.Now --QUESTION: On -- on your view of this case, isit -- suppose we say, all right, reasonable person doesn'tmean . Could -- would a remand be appropriate to viewthe totality of the circumstances and see if they add upto in custody using the reasonable person standard?MR. ELWOOD: Justice Ginsburg, I think that aremand isn't necessary because I think that what the Statecourt of appeals did is approximately right, or at leastit's within the range of reason. So, no, I don't think th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. that you would need to do that.Now, if I could get back to one -- one of thequestions that Justice Scalia asked, which was do we applythe same standard for a -year-old. And although it mayseem kind of intuitively wrong, yes, we would apply thesame reasonable person standard that we would to anybodyelse, with the point being that it's a very difficultthing to require police officers not only to know that a-year-old is more vulnerable, but also to know exactlywhere along the continuum of custody versus non-custodythat -- that puts them because they have to takethemselves out of their reasonable person mind-set thatthey're used to applying and figure out how it appliesdifferently here.And I think that it doesn't make a lot of senseto develop this whole different kind of sideline to thenormal Miranda reasonable person test for -year-oldsbecause the very factors that would make them more likelyto view themselves to be in custody would also make themless likely to be able to use these Miranda rules if theywere actually -- Miranda rights if they were given them. If -- if a -- if a -year-old is going to feel toosubmissive to authority, it doesn't make a lot of sense toapply a lower custody threshold if then he's not going tobe able to take advantage of it. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. QUESTION: I really don't understand. If youseem to agree that a -year-old would be more likely tofeel submissive to authority, is -- does it not followinexorably he, therefore, would reasonably feel he couldnot leave when -- where an older person would?MR. ELWOOD: Justice Stevens, our point is thatbasically we don't require police officers to figure outthe mind-set of , --QUESTION: I wish you would tell me yes or no onmy question. MR. ELWOOD: I -- I think the -- well, I'vealready forgotten what it is. (Laughter.) MR. ELWOOD: But I think the point is --QUESTION: Let me -- let me restate it. You --you say that you -- the -year-old would feel moresubmissive to -- to an officer. Does it not, therefore,follow that he would be less likely to think he was freeto leave than an older person would?MR. ELWOOD: I think if -- in generalities, yes,that's true, but I also --QUESTION: But then isn't age relevant?MR. ELWOOD: No, it's not relevant because Ithink Miranda -- we -- because it's a prophylactic rule,it's a supplemental protection in addition to the -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. QUESTION: No. MR. ELWOOD: -- voluntariness test.QUESTION: Just relevant to the question whetherhe's in custody. That's the only thing we're askingabout, not the Miranda warning.MR. ELWOOD: Right. And our point is that --QUESTION: And if it -- if it makes a differenceof his age, why doesn't that make it relevant?MR. ELWOOD: Because what we're talking abouthere is not just -year-olds. We have to have a rule thatis workable for police officers with respect to -year-olds and people who are years and months and yearsand month. And when you -- when you can say with somecertainty that a -year-old is going to be feeling more vulnerable, but you can't say with a lot of certainty thatan average -year-old is going to be feeling morevulnerable than an average -year-old, and if so, by howmuch. So that, for example, they know that when theysay --QUESTION: But it's relevant by even a tiny,tiny bit if you've got a totality of the circumstancestest. To say it isn't very much -- I don't see thedifference between a -year-old, the -year-old, and the-year-old in your presentation.MR. ELWOOD: Justice -- Justice Stevens, our th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. point is that it's not relevant because the law says it'snot relevant, that the police officer -- all they'reaccountable for is the way a reasonable person would viewthe circumstances, and they shouldn't be required tofigure out -- get inside the head of a reasonable -year-old, a reasonable -year-old. They just have toapply one reasonable person standard to the circumstancesthat are before them.QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. Elwood.Ms. Allen, we'll hear from you.ORAL ARGUMENT OF TARA K. ALLENON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTMS. ALLEN: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it pleasethe Court:I would first like to start by clearing up somethings about the record that the Court was asking aboutearlier. As far as the parents' being refused permissionto attend the interview, that was a finding of fact madein the Federal district court. It is contained in themagistrate's report and recommendations in this case, andit can be found at joint appendix and also thepetitioner's brief, appendix B.QUESTION: Was that based on testimony presentedin the district court?MS. ALLEN: There was no evidentiary hearing in th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. the district court. As far as --QUESTION: Then how -- how did the districtcourt know to make a finding?MS. ALLEN: I believe they based it on thepetition for habeas. This contention --QUESTION: Well --MS. ALLEN: I'm sorry, Your Honor. QUESTION: A written petition? And what -- whatwas the basis for the district court's finding or themagistrate's finding? There was no testimony? MS. ALLEN: No, there was no evidentiary hearingin the Federal court.QUESTION: Then --MS. ALLEN: And there was no testimony in theState court either.QUESTION: Then what is the basis for thefinding?MS. ALLEN: At the motion to suppress in thetrial court, in the State court, the argument was, in boththe written motion to suppress and the oral argument infront of the court, that the parents were refusedpermission to attend the interview. The State neverobjected to that. They never contested it. It was in thebriefs on direct appeal and it wasn't contested there. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. The -- the first time it's been contested is now.QUESTION: So -- so you're saying it was thesubject of evidence at one point, but in a differentproceeding, and -- and when the record of the differentproceeding was used here, no one objected to it.MS. ALLEN: No one objected to it. And theState has a right to object --QUESTION: You're saying it was -- it was thesubject of allegation, not of evidence. MS. ALLEN: Yes, certainly. And when amagistrate files a report and recommendation, either partycan object to any facts that are not correct, and theydidn't do that in this case.QUESTION: Okay.MS. ALLEN: Secondarily --QUESTION: What's RT? It refers to RT asthe cite.MS. ALLEN: That was the reporter's transcriptfrom the motion to suppress at trial -- pretrial.Secondarily, there was some contention aboutwhether Detective Comstock was armed. That is also foundin the joint appendix, page , note , and it was in thepetition for writ of habeas corpus in the district courtas well, citing the -- Alvarado's interview, which is inthe joint appendix. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. There was some contention about whether Mr.Alvarado, Michael, was referred to as a suspect. That canbe found in the joint appendix, page . That wasargument of trial counsel during the motion to suppress. It was not disputed at that point. It hasn't beendisputed until now. But I would assert that in additionto that, even if he had not heard another officer refer tohim as a suspect, it was obvious by Detective Comstock'sword and deed to him during the interrogation that he --he indeed was a suspect. And the last contention is my --QUESTION: Well, and your -- your argument isthat you think the fact that he thought he was a suspectwould make him less likely to feel he was free to leave? MS. ALLEN: Yes. And this Court in Californiav. Stansbury found that anytime that it's communicated toa suspect by word or deed that he is a suspect, that thatgoes into the totality of the circumstances of whetherthat person would reasonably feel free to leave.Secondly, I would like -- well, one more thingon the facts. The fact that Michael said, can't somebodycome in here with me, is found at the joint appendix, page. That's also trial counsel's argument at the motionto suppress that was not disputed until now.But next I would like to -- to move to this idea th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. of this being a new context. Miranda is the son ofvoluntariness and coercion. This Court found in inHaley v. Ohio that juveniles in general are moresusceptible to police coercion than adults.QUESTION: That -- that was not a Court opinion,was it?Honor. MS. ALLEN: I don't know, Mr. Chief Justice. QUESTION: You're citing it and you don't know?MS. ALLEN: Is it a plurality?QUESTION: It was a plurality opinion. MS. ALLEN: Plurality of this Court, yes, YourIn that case, it recognized that juvenile statusbe taken into consideration when determining the proper procedural safeguards. In Miranda in , this Court found that thoseprocedural safeguards would be the Miranda warnings.And then in In re Gault in , the Court foundthat the greatest care must be taken to assure a minor'sconfession was voluntary not only in the sense that it wascoerced, but also that it's not a product of ignorance ofrights.It follows --QUESTION: What -- what good does -- does aMiranda -- I mean, you know -- warning -- what -- what th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. good does it do if you -- if you recite it to a -year-old? I mean, isn't it -- isn't it really a -- a warningthat is designed for a reasonable person, meaning areasonable adult? And so that the situation is as -- ashas been portrayed. It's just an objective thing that --that the police are supposed to do.MS. ALLEN: If you were to recite a Mirandawarning to a -year-old, in the waiver determination theywould decide whether that -year-old understood the waiverof his rights, and the evidence would come in there aswell.QUESTION: Oh, so -- so that even the giving ofa Miranda warning would not suffice.MS. ALLEN: The giving of a Miranda warning doesn't suffice. It severely cuts down the cases in whichyou can contest coercion.QUESTION: Well, coercion of what? I'm nottalking about coercion, whether the statement is -- iscoerced. They are not contesting that -- that you cannotget in the age of the -- of the individual when it comesto deciding whether the confession was voluntary or not. They -- they agree that you can for that.But just for the question of whether the personwas in custody and therefore has to be given a Mirandawarning. It seems to me strange to say that you take into th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. account for that purpose the age of the individual eventhough you don't take it into account for the purpose ofwhether he can understand -- can get any benefit out ofthe Miranda warning at all. You recite a -- a Mirandawarning to a -year-old. It's not going to mean anythingto him.MS. ALLEN: However, if you cite a Mirandawarning to a -year-old, it may.QUESTION: Well, counsel, the -- the person towhom the warning is given must be found to have waived therights so warned and to have understood that a waiver wasbeing made. Isn't that true?MS. ALLEN: That's correct. QUESTION: So I -- I think that's the answer, isn't it?MS. ALLEN: That's correct, Your Honor. QUESTION: So -- so that means you cannotinterrogate a -year-old, neither in custody nor out ofcustody. Right? -year-olds just skip away. That can'tbe right. MS. ALLEN: Usually --(Laughter.) QUESTION: Isn't the question whether we'regoing to --MS. ALLEN: I -- I -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. QUESTION: Isn't the question whether we'regoing to treat them and prosecute them as adults?MS. ALLEN: That's -- that's right.QUESTION: And we don't -- we don't do that with-year-olds.MS. ALLEN: And in most circumstances you're notprosecuting -year-olds. You're -- you're prosecutingteenagers.QUESTION: What is the evidence or theindication here that the State did not take account of thefact that he was a juvenile, but having taken account ofit in the State proceedings, they just reached theconclusion that it didn't in this case matter that much? Now, why do we think that that isn't what happened? MS. ALLEN: When you read the California Stateopinion in this case, they don't mention Michael's age. They don't mention anything about the fact that he was ajuvenile or how a reasonable juvenile would have assessedthe situation.QUESTION: I can understand why they might not-- they would mention things that did matter, but if theythought it hadn't mattered here, why would we haveexpected them to mention it?MS. ALLEN: Is your question if they thought itdidn't matter? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. QUESTION: Well, I mean, is our only indicationthat they didn't take it into account the fact that theydidn't mention it? Because maybe they didn't mention itbecause they thought it's only months. It doesn'tmatter that much. That would be a reason for notmentioning it. Or maybe they didn't mention it becausethe lawyers then didn't make that much of an issue of it. I mean, there are a lot of reasons why, when I write anopinion, I don't mention things. Usually it's because Idon't think it matters.MS. ALLEN: Well, the objectively unreasonablething about what the California court did in this case wasthey recited the correct test for custody, yet theycompletely failed to imply it. When they were looking at the totality of the circumstances, they spent their entiretime distinguishing a State case from this case andfinding that --QUESTION: To -- to what extent do we require aState court, when we're talking about the AEDPA rules, tobe absolutely accurate in following, say, precedent ofthis Court? I mean, I -- I thought the rule was that itwas up to the other -- the other side to point out howthey had departed from it.MS. ALLEN: As this Court has found, a totalitymeans a totality. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. QUESTION: Well, then you say that in any --every single Miranda case, a court must take into accountin its opinion every single circumstance that is mentionedin the record?MS. ALLEN: No, Your Honor. QUESTION: Well, then what -- why do you saytotality?MS. ALLEN: Most certainly they should discussthe factors that make a difference, and in this case theydidn't. They didn't discuss any of the factors that madea difference. QUESTION: Well, why should they have said thatthe age of a -and-a-half-year-old made a difference? MS. ALLEN: It's more than the age in this case. Not only is it a reasonable juvenile standard, but alsoit's the enlisting of the parental authority to bring himto the station, the refusing of permission for the parentsto attend the interview in front of him.QUESTION: Well, that's mentioned in the court'sopinion, that they brought him to the station house.MS. ALLEN: When they're talking about thefacts, they take the facts from Detective Comstock'sinterview where she says, I called the parents and hadthem come down. She doesn't say anything about refusingthem permission. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. QUESTION: That both Mr. and Mrs. Alvarado cameto the sheriff's station with their son.MS. ALLEN: Yes.QUESTION: Well, so then they did talk aboutsome of these circumstances. It's not correct to say theymentioned none of them.MS. ALLEN: They --QUESTION: It's right in the opinion. MS. ALLEN: They didn't mention that they wererefused permission, and they didn't mention that Michaelwas . I guess you can infer from the fact that shecalled the parents that he was under the age of majority.QUESTION: Well, maybe they didn't mention thatbecause it's not in the record. I -- I -- maybe they were being a little more precise about what -- what should bein their opinion than -- than we have been here today. Imean --MS. ALLEN: Well, part of the record were the --the trial transcripts which included the motion tosuppress hearing, and -- and the briefs cited to that andthe motion itself. So it was in the record.QUESTION: I -- I didn't -- well, I -- I'm notsure that you're required -- or it's even proper to takeinto account allegations that are made in -- in a motionto suppress when there's been no evidentiary hearing on th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. them. I don't --MS. ALLEN: Well, where they're not disputed bythe prosecution and -- and the judge finds no contraryfinding and they're argued in all the briefs without therespondent saying that that's not correct, it seemsreasonable that the court of appeal would -- would takethat as fact.QUESTION: Why should it matter in the -- in the-- why would a court say, oh, yes, I know that age couldbe -- could be relevant, but this was a and more --more than -and-a-half-year-old, closer to than ? Ithink in this case age was irrelevant. I mean, it seemsto me you have a rather bad case on the facts to press thedifference in age of somebody who's almost . MS. ALLEN: I think even if Michael had been and the court had no duty to apply a reasonable juvenilestandard, there are plenty of facts that point towardcustody in this case not only the parental involvement,but the very fact that this interrogation took place in aninterrogation room at a police station.QUESTION: That's the question I asked Mr.Elwood and he -- his answer was a remand wouldn't beappropriate because what the State court held was a -- wasreasonable.MS. ALLEN: What the State court held was th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. objectively unreasonable because they -- they failed toapply the clearly established Federal law from this Court,which is Thompson v. Keohane. The recited it, butcompletely failed to apply it in any meaningful way.QUESTION: In -- in what respect?MS. ALLEN: In the respect that that case saysyou need to look at all of the circumstances surroundingan interrogation, and once you add up those circumstances,you decide whether a reasonable person would have feltfree to leave. That's a cumulative totality of thecircumstances test.The California court did not look at the factorstogether cumulatively. They took two factors todistinguish this case, neither of which was proper: one,that the police did not tell him affirmatively that hecould not leave until he told the truth, which would be afinding of custody straight off. You would never even getto the totality test. And two, that the tactics weren'tintense and aggressive enough to prove coercion.And as this case said in Kaupp, interestingly,just as you can't require the perversity of resistingarrest to prove coercion, here you can't require theperversity of -- of this being coercive to prove custody. You can't use a -- say that the -- the police had to haveenlisted intense and aggressive tactics in order for this th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. to be custody. That's not even part of the custodydetermination. There are things like location. Here itwas at a police station. Who initiated the contact. Hereit was initiated by the detective. Whether the defendantvoluntarily came. Here he was brought by his parents atthe behest of the detective. Whether he was informed thathe was not under arrest. Not only was he not informed ofthat, he wasn't given anything to sign to say theinterview was voluntarily -- voluntary. The length of theinterview. He was interrogated for over hours. Thefamiliarity of the surroundings. And this is where hisinexperience may go into a -- a circumstances test. Hehad never been in a police station or an interrogationroom. And whether it was communicated to him that he wasa suspect, which it was certainly by Comstock --QUESTION: You're -- you're not meeting theirargument, though. Their argument is it doesn't matterthat although voluntariness of the confession later on isindeed a subjective inquiry, was it really voluntary onthe part of this person, custody or not, is not asubjective inquiry. It is purely objective. Was thisperson in custody or not in custody? And their argumentis that determination is to be made from the standpoint ofwhat a reasonable adult would -- would deduce from thesituation. It is objective. It has nothing to do with th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. the subjective feelings of the particular individual,whether because he's too young or because he's -- he'smentally not -- not competent or anything else. It is anobjective determination. Did the police have this personin custody?MS. ALLEN: That's correct, Your Honor. QUESTION: Now, what is -- what is your responseto that?MS. ALLEN: It is an objective determination,and nobody is arguing that it should be subjective. Thepetitioner is the one who has created this facade thatwe're trying to turn an objective test into a subjectivetest. We're not. The Ninth Circuit is not trying to dothat. No one is asking whether Michael Alvarado felt free to leave. We're asking whether a reasonable person in hisposition would have felt free to leave because of suchfactors as his age and the parental involvement.QUESTION: Well, every subjective inquiry usesobjective factors. I mean, you're -- you're not making itnon-subjective simply because you say whether it's a --you know, an objective -and-a-half-year-old who had beenabused by his parents and who was, you know, off fromSunday school or whatever and put in every factor in hislife and say, well, of course, you know. That -- that'ssubjective. That's not an objective test at that point th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. when you're using all sorts of factors that -- that go towhat his thinking was. When -- when you use all of that,you're using the subjective test.MS. ALLEN: There's a fine line here. Becausethe custody test asks how a reasonable person in thesuspect's position would have felt free to leave, it'ssaying how would a reasonable person have felt, how theywould have felt free to leave. And that soundssubjective, but you're using objective factors. And thefact of juvenile status -- it's not subjective. It's nota state of mind. It's a status. It's a class that thisCourt has recognized from the beginning.QUESTION: Yes, but not in this particularcontext.MS. ALLEN: In the context of custodialinterrogations and the Fifth Amendment and FourteenthAmendment. These are two sides of the same coin. Mirandais concerned with exactly the context that this Court hasrecognized. QUESTION: But up -- up to now, it's beenconcerned with respect to the custody inquiry to theexternal circumstances of -- of the person. You know, howwould a reasonable person have reacted to thesecircumstances? Now, you're -- you're saying we don't anylonger limit it to that. We look inside the person and th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. try to figure out on his background how we would react,and that of course, is -- Justice Scalia says I think --is -- is not a -- an objective standard.MS. ALLEN: Mr. Chief Justice, I -- Irespectfully disagree. We're not asking what was in themind of the person. We're simply saying that this Courtand other courts in the land and the police need torecognize what is obvious, that juveniles do not assesstheir freedom to leave the same way as adults do.QUESTION: Well, but you say juveniles, andyou're saying the -and-a-half-year-old will not assesshis freedom to leave in the same way an -year-old. Thatjust doesn't make any sense at all.MS. ALLEN: This Court in its juvenile jurisprudence has drawn lines with juveniles versusadults. When things are close to the line, it's going tobe fuzzy, but to say what the petitioner is arguing, thatit never matters, that a -year-old would assess theirfreedom to leave the same as a -year-old, it can't betrue.QUESTION: Well, it certainly matters fordetermining voluntariness of any statement. Was that everchallenged at trial?MS. ALLEN: No, it wasn't. The --QUESTION: That's kind of odd, isn't it? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. MS. ALLEN: It is. The main contentions attrial were, one, that the Miranda wasn't read and he wasin custody, and two, that when he said, can't somebody bein here with me, that that as a request for counsel.QUESTION: But never an assertion that thestatements were involuntary.MS. ALLEN: No, no.QUESTION: And all of these things would berelevant in the voluntariness inquiry, would they not?MS. ALLEN: Yes, sure.QUESTION: If juvenility must be taken intoaccount for the custody determination, how -- how is itthat it is not taken into account for the purpose of whatthe nature of the warning has to be, assuming custody? I mean, we have one Miranda warning that presumably I havealways thought is given to everybody from the -year-oldto the senior citizen.MS. ALLEN: And --QUESTION: Now, if -- if, indeed as you say,relevant to this whole thing is -- is the age of theperson, we ought to have different Miranda warnings, an -year-old Miranda warning, a -and-a-half-year-old Mirandawarning, and so forth.MS. ALLEN: I have two things to say about that,Justice Scalia. One is many States do employ a different th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. Miranda warning for juveniles in their statutes. Secondly, this Court in Miranda, when putting down thewarning, I assume it applies to both juveniles and adults,and ignoring the -- the juvenile status is basicallymaking it an adult standard. If you're applying an adultstandard to juveniles instead of providing for thegreatest care, you would actually be giving them lessprotection to which they're entitled under the clearlyestablished Federal law.QUESTION: And is it also not true that in many,many cases, voluntariness may remain an issue, forexample, as in Oregon against Elstad. If there's apreliminary question followed by Miranda warnings, youfirst have to look at the voluntariness of the firstinterrogation. So we haven't abandoned voluntariness as arelevant issue in these cases.MS. ALLEN: No, not at all, Your Honor. QUESTION: Does that help your case or hurt yourcase? I -- I -- I would think -- I thought that was theargument of the other side, that you -- you can raise allof this on the voluntariness point. You don't have to getit in on the -- on the quite objective factor of whetherthere is custody or not.QUESTION: Sure you can, but voluntariness isretrospective, and Miranda is prospective. So if you're th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. trying to protect people's rights from the beginning, itshould be taken into account at the beginning instead ofwaiting until the end when it's too late essentially. It's very hard to meet a voluntariness test when thiscould be taken care of on the front end by police givingpeople their -second Miranda warnings, particularlyjuveniles who they know are going to assess their freedomto leave differently than adults.So unless the Court has any other questions. CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: Thank you, Ms. Allen.The case is submitted.(Whereupon, at : a.m., the case in theabove-entitled matter was submitted.) th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. 