 IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XMARYLAND, Petitioner ::v. : No. -JOSEPH JERMAINE PRINGLE :- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XWashington, D.C.Monday, November , The above-entitled matter came on for oralargument before the Supreme Court of the United States at: a.m.APPEARANCES:GARY E. BAIR, ESQ., Baltimore, Maryland; on behalf ofthe Petitioner.SRI SRINIVASAN, ESQ., Assistant to the Solicitor General,Department of Justice; as amicus curiae, supportingthe Petitioner. NANCY S. FORSTER, ESQ., Baltimore, Maryland; on behalf of the Respondent.Page th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC C O N T E N T SORAL ARGUMENT OF GARY E. BAIR, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioner SRI SRINIVASAN, ESQ.As amicus curiae, supporting the Petitioner NANCY S. FORSTEROn behalf of the Respondent REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OFGARY E. BAIR, ESQ.PAGEOn behalf of the Petitioner Page th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC P R O C E E D I N G S(: a.m.)CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: We'll hear argumentnext in No. -, Maryland v. Joseph Jermaine Pringle.Mr. Bair.ORAL ARGUMENT OF GARY E. BAIRON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERMR. BAIR: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it pleasethe Court:When the officer stopped the car respondent wasriding in and found drugs packaged for distribution in therear seat armrest, and then also found a large amount ofcash in the glove compartment -QUESTION: What - the rear seat armrest waspushed up -MR. BAIR: Yes, Your Honor.QUESTION: - and then the drugs were behind the -the armrest?MR. BAIR: Yes, Mr. Chief Justice. The rear seatarmrest was pushed up against the rear seat. The officermerely folded it down and then the drugs appeared, andthese are drugs that were packaged in five separateindividual packages that were packaged for distribution at$ a bag. The officer also found $ in a rolled-upball of cash in the glove compartment, and there - at thatPage th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC time there was individualized probable cause that focusedon all three people in that car, and this is so for threeprincipal reasons. First -QUESTION: At the end of the day, what happened?MR. BAIR: At the end of the day, all three werearrested, respondent confessed, and said the -QUESTION: And respondent was a front seatpassenger?MR. BAIR: Yes, Justice O'Connor.QUESTION: He's the one who confessed?MR. BAIR: Yes.QUESTION: And was found ultimately guilty of -MR. BAIR: He was found -QUESTION: - some drug-related offense?MR. BAIR: He was found guilty both of possession and possession with intent to distribute.QUESTION: And the other two?MR. BAIR: The other two were not chargedformally after respondent confessed. The officer made adiscretionary decision not to charge the other two at thestation house after respondent confessed to this crime.QUESTION: Do you say that there was probablecause for the arrest of all three at the time they werefound?MR. BAIR: Yes, Your Honor.Page th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC QUESTION: Was there probable cause sufficient tosupport charges at a preliminary hearing -MR. BAIR: I think there would have been.QUESTION: - against all three?MR. BAIR: I - yes, Justice O'Connor, I thinkthere would have been. I think, given the circumstancesof this arrest, the mere fact that one of the threeconfessed doesn't ultimately determine that the other twowere not culpable.QUESTION: Is there any additional requirementfor establishing probable cause at a preliminary hearingabove and beyond what's needed for the arrest, or are theyidentical, in your opinion?MR. BAIR: I would say they're identical, YourHonor.QUESTION: So - so under - under that view,assume no confession, hypothetical case, under that view,these people, all of the three could have been bound overfor trial?MR. BAIR: I believe so. I believe so.QUESTION: And under that view, any motion todismiss prior to trial would have to be denied?MR. BAIR: I believe there would have beenprobable cause to charge and to take the cases to trial.QUESTION: And I suppose what happens in thatPage th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC case is the judge says, and I want to tell you right upfront I think this is a very skimpy case, you'd bettercome up with something - I guess that's the way it works -MR. BAIR: I think so -QUESTION: But there's - but the - as JusticeO'Connor said, it's probable cause and it's the samestandard - excuse me - it's the same standard to bind overon arraignment as it is for the officer to arrest?MR. BAIR: My understanding from the case law,Your Honor, is that probable cause is probable cause, beit to search, to arrest, or it - I think it's a fluidconcept, obviously depending on the exact context, and I'mnot saying that a prosecutor would not exercise discretionas would a police officer in a given case not to take a case forward.QUESTION: Well, a preliminary hearing is largelya matter of Maryland law, isn't it, or State law?MR. BAIR: It is and -QUESTION: I mean, is there any - anyconstitutional requirement that there be a preliminaryhearing before a criminal case is tried?MR. BAIR: Not that I know of, Your Honor, no.QUESTION: Well, I take it even under theConstitution, if it's a Federal case, both the indictmentPage th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC and the - or the information shows simply probable cause,that's enough to bind over?MR. BAIR: I believe so, Justice Kennedy, Ibelieve so. Now, in this case, of course, there was -QUESTION: But if you say it's fluid, that - thatconcerns me. I was somewhat puzzled by what theGovernment said in its brief, page to , it says,well, you know, it's fluid, the prosecutor takes a secondlook and it - it sounds as if the prosecutor has a greaterburden, but I - I'm not sure that that's the law.MR. BAIR: I'm not sure it's a greater burden. Ithink the prosecutor's decision, of course, is lookingforward to trial where they know that they have to provethe case beyond a reasonable doubt. They know they haveto get past a motion for judgment of acquittal. Thepolice officer on the scene is making the same type ofdecision vis-a-vis probable cause but it's in a verydifferent context. I think that's the difference.QUESTION: In your view, is this very fact-specific so that it might come out differently if themoney and the drugs had been located in some little pocketnext to the driver as opposed to some rear seat passengeror other passenger?MR. BAIR: I think one factor that wouldsignificantly change the totality of the circumstancesPage th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC here would be, for instance, if the drugs had been foundon the person of one of the passengers.QUESTION: No, that wasn't my question. What if-MR. BAIR: If it had been -QUESTION: - they were found very close to thedriver, you know, sometimes there's a little pocket rightnext to -MR. BAIR: In the door?QUESTION: - on the door, on the driver's side. Suppose it were there but you had a passenger in the frontand in the rear. Any different result?MR. BAIR: Not in this case, no. I think - Ithink if - if the drugs are found in a common area of thepassenger compartment of the car -QUESTION: How about the trunk?MR. BAIR: I think the trunk changes things alittle bit, but of course you have to look at the totalityof the circumstances, Justice Ginsburg.QUESTION: Why a little bit? I thought thiswhole case was predicated - your whole case was predicatedon those drugs between the armrest and the backseat wereaccessible to all three people in that car.MR. BAIR: That's -QUESTION: Now, if you have something in a lockedPage th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC trunk, it truly is not accessible to the passengers.MR. BAIR: It certainly is not as accessible, andof course it's not as immediately accessible, but, forinstance, if there had been a large quantity of drugs inthe trunk or if there had been a dead body in the trunk, Ithink then there is a - the calculus changes in terms oftotality of the circumstances, and I think if it were thatsituation, even though that particular evidence was in thetrunk, I think there's still a - a strong inference thatcould be drawn that everyone in the car knew about it,because who would take the chance in terms of taking alonginnocent passengers -QUESTION: Well, let's stick to the five - thesefive bags that were stuck in a Ziploc bag. The Ziploc bagis in the trunk, not a dead body.MR. BAIR: I understand. I think in that casethere would be a much closer case, it would be a much moredifficult case vis-a-vis all three occupants of the car.QUESTION: But under -QUESTION: Okay, what about the -QUESTION: - under - under your view, if - if thecar is in a high crime area and some mother gets a ridefrom her son who she perhaps doesn't know has beeninvolved in drugs, then if drugs are found anywhere inthat car, she's subject to arrest and - and sufficient forPage th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC charge?MR. BAIR: Not - not -QUESTION: I mean, suppose it's at - in themiddle of the day and she's going to the grocery store, wedon't have it at : a.m. in an area where drugs arefrequently sold. Does that enter into the calculus?MR. BAIR: I think it does, Your Honor. I think,obviously with - with - with the totality of thecircumstances, anytime you change - and, of course, someof these are going to have more minor impact, some aregoing to have more major impact. But in this case youhad, of course, : in the morning, three men who wereroughly of the same age who appeared to be intimatelyconnected with one another, you had the drugs and themoney. I think here's a very strong case, but I agree, Justice O'Connor -QUESTION: What if there had been four people inthe car?MR. BAIR: I don't know that four people wouldchange things.QUESTION: How about six?MR. BAIR: I think within the -QUESTION: Or what if it was a minivan and therewere eight in the minivan?(Laughter.)Page th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC MR. BAIR: I'm not sure it changes itsignificantly, Your Honor. I think that the mostsignificant -QUESTION: You think with eight people in theminivan you could arrest all eight and hold them over fortrial?MR. BAIR: I think if you have identicalcircumstances to these in terms of the time, how well-acquainted they all appeared, the fact there was money,the fact that there were drugs packaged for distribution. It appeared to the officer, a reasonable inference, thatthere was a drug distribution common enterprise.QUESTION: But the distribution, as I understandit, was just enough to take care of a big party. Therewas no evidence that they were for sale, was there? MR. BAIR: Well, the evidence, at the time theofficer made the arrest, I think he could draw aninference that there was cash proceeds perhaps of formerdrug sales, prior drug sales, and there were fiveindividually packaged crack - hits of crack cocaine. QUESTION: And the charge was possession withintent to distribute, wasn't it?MR. BAIR: Yes, it was both simple possession andpossession with intent to distribute, and he wasconvicted.Page th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC QUESTION: How about if it had been a bus? Now,we've gone from the sedan to the minivan, how about thebus?MR. BAIR: I think a bus is different, YourHonor. I think a bus changes things significantly in the- in the context of, of course, the numbers of people aremuch greater, and then there's -QUESTION: Are you talking about a public bus oryou're talking about a chartered bus?(Laughter.)MR. BAIR: I think that would affect obviouslythe totality of circumstances as well.QUESTION: What - what is - what is the rule thatyou're - there's the restatement hypotheticals -Restatement of Torts, where there's the dead body, two people are each accusing the other, and add - I don't knowhow the hypothetical would work - but add to the mix thatonly one could have done it. Can you arrest both?MR. BAIR: I think you can, Your Honor. I thinkboth the Restatement of Torts, the Model Code of Pre-Arraignment Procedure, and just the - the nature ofprobable cause would permit that, because we're talkingabout -QUESTION: The Model Code of Pre-ArraignmentProcedure just talks again about probable cause?Page th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC MR. BAIR: Same situation where you have, say,two people, only one of whom could be guilty of the crime. You could still have - you still would have probable causeto arrest both.QUESTION: But that's two people and here you'vegot three.QUESTION: What about three? I was going to ask,what about three?MR. BAIR: I think three is - is -QUESTION: You can arrest all three?MR. BAIR: I think so.QUESTION: What about five? You're going toarrest all five? Even - I mean, you know, it gets worseand worse -MR. BAIR: Well, of course.QUESTION: - percent chance, there are ofthem now -MR. BAIR: And - and -QUESTION: - so the chance that any individualone did it is percent. That's still enough?MR. BAIR: I think we can't draw - the Court inGates said that you cannot quantify probable cause. Youhave to - in those circumstances -QUESTION: It doesn't mean probable.MR. BAIR: No, it does not mean probable. Page th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC Clearly -QUESTION: Why do we call it probable cause?MR. BAIR: I'm not - I think there's a bit of amisnomer there, but clearly from the case law of thisCourt, it means a fair probability, it means somethinggreater than reasonable suspicion under Terry -QUESTION: But if you had to reduce it to apercentage figure, what would you call the percentagerequired for probable cause?MR. BAIR: I don't know that I could, Your Honor. I really don't know that it's useful to -QUESTION: But it's less than , though, Igather?has said -MR. BAIR: Yes. Your - the cases of this CourtQUESTION: So that takes care of the two peoplein the room, but when you get down to -/ with threepeople?would be -MR. BAIR: I think - I think three people clearlyQUESTION: And with four people it would be percent. Is that enough?MR. BAIR: Probably, probably.QUESTION: Probably.(Laughter.)Page th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC QUESTION: You - you agree - you agree that atsome point the probability is - when the numbers of peoplepresent keep increasing, at some point the probability isgoing to be too slim?MR. BAIR: Yes, I agree with that. I agree withthat, but again, in Illinois v. Gates, this Court said wewill not, we cannot, it's not useful to try to quantifyprobable cause in that way, we still have to look at thetotality of the circumstances beyond whether there are twopeople or three people or whatever.QUESTION: And one is -MR. BAIR: Of course, on the Government's theoryI don't think it would matter, because they say you caninfer a conspiracy, and I suppose then the whole bus couldbe in the conspiracy, but if it's an individual approach, which I think you're taking, then the number of peoplemight make a difference.MR. BAIR: I think so. Now, of course, it woulddepend on - on the crime that the probable cause was goingto. In this particular crime, of course, drugs can bejointly and constructively possessed, so clearly in thisparticular car, all three of the people could be guilty ofthe crime, not just one.QUESTION: Do you accept Justice Stevens'suggestion that your position might differ from thePage th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC Government here?MR. BAIR: I don't know that it does. I thinkour positions are basically the same.QUESTION: So - so you do think a conspiracy cangenerally - can be inferred as to all people in these - inthe instance like this?MR. BAIR: In our case, absolutely, absolutely. In our case, clearly -QUESTION: But if one of them -QUESTION: But you didn't argue the - excuse me -you didn't argue the conspiracy theory in the Statecourt, I don't think, did you?MR. BAIR: Well, I think we did, Your Honor. Ithink we argued in the State court that because drugs canbe jointly and constructively possessed, that any one, two, or three of the individuals in the car were - wereguilty of this crime.QUESTION: If you know nothing more than what youknow here - I mean, I take it that if - if it wereundisputed that one of the three was a hitchhiker, you -you would not make the argument with respect to thehitchhiker?MR. BAIR: I think if - if it's undisputed, andof course, that's going to be a difficult situation to -to know that there's no actual connection -Page th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC QUESTION: That's the wonderful thing about beingon the Supreme Court.MR. BAIR: If it's -QUESTION: You can make those assumptions.MR. BAIR: If it's undisputed, then I think thatsignificantly changes, because I think a lot - a coreconcept here is this notion of common enterprise, thatwhen you have people in a car together, particularly asmall passenger car, there's an inference, I think in thiscase a very strong inference, that all three of thesepeople were engaged in a common enterprise. So -QUESTION: But do you have - do you need the -QUESTION: What if the car - what if the carincluded a driver and two hitchhikers and the drugs werefound exactly as they were here, and there's obviously no common enterprise, would there be probable cause?MR. BAIR: I guess it would be - of course, thatwould be a more difficult case because you had the moneyin the glove compartment of the car and the drugs in thebackseat of the car, so that -QUESTION: I'm not sure the money really addsanything to the analysis, to tell you the truth.MR. BAIR: I think it adds -QUESTION: Because there's certainly nothingillegal about carrying money in the glove compartment,Page th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC where it is illegal to carry drugs in the - behind theseat - the armrest.MR. BAIR: Well, certainly the money without thedrugs would be a - a different case than the drugs withoutthe money.QUESTION: But you -QUESTION: The hitchhiker - the hitchhikerexample poses a question for the arresting officer,because does he have to accept the declaration of someonethat I'm just a hitchhiker here?MR. BAIR: No, and - and that, of course, goesback to whether it's undisputed in some way, I don't knowquite how it would be undisputed. You've always got the -the officer who on the scene is making a reasonablejudgement from all the facts and circumstances, and one of those is, I don't have to believe the criminal orcriminals in this car. I know there are drugs in the car,we have a known crime here being committed in the presenceof the officer, possession or possession with intent todistribute drugs.QUESTION: Well, I'm still curious about theanswer to my question. Assume the officer did accept thetruth of the representation they were two - twohitchhikers picked up at different times, and maybe he wasfollowing the car, for instance, so he knew that was true,Page th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC and then there's the driver and then there are drugs inthe backseat just as there are here. Would there beprobable cause in that case?MR. BAIR: Two - two answers to that, JusticeStevens. One, of course, is you would measure theprobable cause by an objective standard and not by thesubjective standard of that particular police officer. The other is -QUESTION: But what is the answer?MR. BAIR: The other is, it could be that -QUESTION: I thought you were going to say thetwo answers were yes and no.(Laughter.)MR. BAIR: It could be, Your Honor, that the -the driver knew the hitchhikers and that's why he picked them up. I mean, a lot of times people -QUESTION: No, no, no. I'm just assuming theonly relevant facts are that it's undisputed they were two- two unrelated - they're three unrelated people, they'rejust entirely different backgrounds, one doesn't evenspeak English and one doesn't speak Spanish, but there arethree of them in the car and the drugs are found exactlyunder the circumstances here. What I'm trying to say - ifthere were no conspiracy theory, would there be probablecause?Page th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC MR. BAIR: I think so, yes. Yes, I think therewould be.QUESTION: You - you have - you really have tosay that based on the dead victim hypothetical that youanswered earlier.MR. BAIR: I think so, I think so, that - that ifthe, again, one - the other inference among the - the -the indicators of a common enterprise would be, I thinkit's unusual that several people are going to be taking achance driving around, either with evidence of a murder orevidence of a drug conspiracy. They're not simply as amatter of reasonable inferences that an officer can draw,take the chance of having innocent people along. Unless there are any further questions, I - I'dreserve the remainder of my time.QUESTION: Very well, Mr. Bair.Mr. Srinivasan, we'll hear from you.ORAL ARGUMENT OF SRI SRINIVASANON BEHALF OF THE UNITED STATES AS AMICUS CURIAESUPPORTING THE PETITIONERMR. SRINIVASAN: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice,and may it please the Court:The totality of the circumstances apparent tothe officer at the scene established probable cause forrespondent's arrest. Of particular significance, thePage th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC officer uncovered drugs that were packaged fordistribution and that were concealed in the location inwhich they were readily discoverable by the otherpassengers.QUESTION: Your brief reads to me - at about page - to suggest that you're proposing a broad rule thatprobable cause exists to arrest all occupants of a caranytime commercial quantities of narcotics are found inthe passenger portion of the car.MR. SRINIVASAN: It's - we don't intend -QUESTION: Is that your position?MR. SRINIVASAN: We don't intend to suggest abroad rule, Justice O'Connor.QUESTION: Do you agree that it is a totality ofthe circumstances test?MR. SRINIVASAN: Yes, it's a totality of thecircumstances test, and it will turn on contextual factorsthat are present in any particular case. QUESTION: Well, you do say at page , beginningof the first full paragraph, for these reasons, thediscovery of an amount of narcotics suitable fordistribution in the passenger compartment supports aninference that all of the car's occupants were aware of,and hence, involved with the drugs. That's a sweepingstatement.Page th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC MR. SRINIVASAN: Well, what - what we intend tosay is that ordinarily when drugs that are packaged fordistribution are found in a location in which they'rereadily discoverable by the other passengers, a reasonableofficer can fairly conclude that there's a fairprobability that each passenger is - is aware of thedrugs, but of course in particular cases -QUESTION: But it - it might - wouldn't differentfactors enter into it? Suppose it's a young child -MR. SRINIVASAN: Absolutely, Justice O'Connor.QUESTION: - in the vehicle, and it's in themiddle of the day and they're dropping the child off atschool or something. Are you suggesting there wouldnonetheless be this inference and the child could behauled up and sent to the juvenile court?MR. SRINIVASAN: No. The inference is tetheredto the particular facts of this case. In cases thatpresent different facts, for example, if a child was inthe car of - if, as was earlier discussed, a hitchhikerwere in the car, the probable - probable cause calculuswould be different. But in this case there was no reasonto suspect that any of the individuals was uninvolved inthe possession of the cocaine. In fact, what'sparticularly significant in this case in our view is thelocation in which the drugs were found, because they werePage th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC found wedged behind the rear seat armrest, whichapparently is the type of armrest that's adjustable in anup or down position. The very purpose of that type ofarmrest is to give the passenger an option according tohis preference whether the position - the armrest in oneposition or the other, so it's highly -QUESTION: The only evidence that supports thenotion that some were uninvolved is that as soon as one ofthem confessed, the police immediately dismissed thecharge against the other two, and therefore abandoned thenotion that it was a common enterprise.MR. SRINIVASAN: Well, I - it - there's a - Ithink there's a different question concerning whetherthere was probable cause for an arrest and thedetermination by an officer whether to proceed with charges. Just because the officer -QUESTION: You'd think if the - if the backseatperson or whoever it was that confessed had confessedwhile the officer was arresting him, there would haveremained the probable cause as to the other two? Could hehave said, I don't believe you, I'll take all three of youin anyway?MR. SRINIVASAN: There might well have been,Justice Stevens, because an officer's not required tobelieve the version of events that's given to him byPage th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC people on the scene. It might well be the case that theyhave a coordinated plan in advance to pin the blame on aparticular person as opposed to the other two, and anofficer can take into account the totality ofcircumstances in making that type of assessment.QUESTION: May I - may I clarify whether you areindeed relying on common enterprise? I thought the viewwas it may or may not be a common enterprise, but here isa situation, drugs equally accessible, drugs accessible toany one of the three. We can't say whether all three orwhich one, so looking at the three, and we say, well, it'snot more - not more likely the driver than the front seatpassenger, who's there behind the money, or the backseatpassenger, because any one of them could have pulled downthat armrest. I thought that was your theory, not a - not necessarily a common enterprise.MR. SRINIVASAN: That's correct, JusticeGinsburg. It's not necessarily a common enterprise. Itcould be any one of the three or it could be all of themor some combination of the three of them, and thecombination of those various scenarios rose to the levelof a fair probability that respondent was involved withthe cocaine. And as I was - as I was saying, that'sparticularly the case because they were concealed behindthe armrest, which is a type of instrument thatPage th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC affirmatively invites manipulation by a passenger, so ifone of the occupants of the vehicle alone were responsiblefor carrying cocaine, it seems quite unlikely that hewould have chosen the area behind the armrest as a placeto conceal it from the other passengers.QUESTION: Do - do we demand the same standardfrom the arresting officer as we do from the districtattorney who decides whether or not to proceed topreliminary hearing?MR. SRINIVASAN: The probable cause standardworks the same. In both situations the question would bewhether there's a fair probability. Now -QUESTION: But - but do we demand a higherstandard -MR. SRINIVASAN: Well, it's -QUESTION: - from either of them in making thatassessment?MR. SRINIVASAN: It's often the case thatprosecutors will have more rigorous standards as a matterof internal - matter of internal guidelines. And forexample, in the U.S. Attorney's manual, it dictates thatprosecutors in the Federal system need to ensure that it'slikely that they'll be able to obtain a conviction on -QUESTION: Well isn't - isn't that - that meansthe - the probable cause standard is the same, but thePage th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC prosecutor has an obligation to try to find out more andget more evidence before he goes forward. Isn't that thedifference?MR. SRINIVASAN: Right. The nature of theapplication of the probable cause standard is different inthe prosecutorial stage because the prosecutor isidentifying a particular offense, laying out the facts tosupport that offense, and the -QUESTION: But the - but the standard - thestandard that determines the - the - the degree oflikelihood of inference, that is the same standard,whether we're talking about the police officer or whetherwe're talking about the district attorney later?MR. SRINIVASAN: Correct. That remains constantin both scenarios.QUESTION: I - I'm not sure what you're saying. You're saying it - it can get to the jury with no morethan probable cause and should not be thrown out by thecourt?MR. SRINIVASAN: There's a different - there's adifferent question whether the evidence is sufficient toconvict as presented by the prosecutor and whether theprosecutor has enough to go forward with the charges.QUESTION: No, but you're saying the prosecutordoes not have an obligation to refrain from bringing aPage th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC prosecution where he plainly on the face of it doesn'thave enough evidence to convict?MR. SRINIVASAN: As long as there's probablecause to go forward, the prosecutor can go forward withthe charges.QUESTION: To say plainly on the face of it issomething that a - a prosecutor is seldom confronted with. I mean, you've got different people telling differentstories usually and it's usually a question of who'sbelieved.MR. SRINIVASAN: That's correct, Mr. ChiefJustice, and -QUESTION: Well, I'm assuming he has three peoplein the car and the chance for each of them is -/percent -MR. SRINIVASAN: Well, he could go -QUESTION: - and he prosecutes one of them and hehas nothing else. That's all he has, three people in thecar, stuff in the back seat -MR. SRINIVASAN: Well, that's -QUESTION: - and he picks the passenger andbrings a prosecution. The passenger, it could have beenme, it could have been the other two, -/ percent.MR. SRINIVASAN: Well, that's - that's differentfrom the facts of this case, but even assuming that itPage th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC were an equal likelihood that each of them independentlywere involved in the offense, the prosecutor could goforward in that situation, but it's highly unlikely thathe would go forward in that situation because - becausehe's unlikely to obtain to a verdict in his favor. Sothere's institutional incentives -QUESTION: And the district court probably wouldnot let the case go to the jury if the motion was made atthe end of the prosecution's case and this was all youhad?MR. SRINIVASAN: That's correct, Justice Kennedy.QUESTION: The prosecution should - theprosecutor should bring cases which clearly will not beable to go to the jury?MR. SRINIVASAN: No, not should bring cases -QUESTION: May, may.MR. SRINIVASAN: May, under the Constitution.QUESTION: Okay, that's not my understanding ofthe prosecutor's -MR. SRINIVASAN: And that's why, I think,prosecutors typically enforce upon themselves a morerigorous obligation than the probable cause standard.QUESTION: But we have no case saying that theymay not proceed?MR. SRINIVASAN: No, there's no case that I'mPage th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC aware of that says that they can't proceed where there'sprobable cause.QUESTION: But you just said the manualinstructed them not to bring cases to trial.MR. SRINIVASAN: In - in the Federal system -QUESTION: Yes.MR. SRINIVASAN: - there's Federal guidelinesthat spell out when Federal prosecutors are supposed tobring cases to trial, but I'm not aware that that'srequired by Federal law or by the Constitution. Eachprosecutor's office might have their own -QUESTION: Do you have readily at hand the - thecitation to the manual?MR. SRINIVASAN: I don't - I don't have theparticular provision.QUESTION: Of course, the - the manual wouldn'tin any way bind Maryland authority.MR. SRINIVASAN: That's correct. Eachprosecutor's office might have different standards.QUESTION: If - if the Federal manual bindsanyone.MR. SRINIVASAN: Right. Well, the deficienciesin the Maryland court's probable cause analysis, we think,are particularly are apparent when one considers theimplications for officers at the scene in circumstancesPage th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC like this case, because apparently the up-shot is thatofficers either could arrest no one or that they couldarrest the driver alone, and the latter situation seemsunsound because perhaps the least likely scenario incircumstances like this case is that - that the driver wasacting alone and carrying the contraband in the car,because if the driver in fact were acting alone, one mightexpect that he would conceal the contraband in a locationin which it was not so readily discoverable by the otherpassengers.QUESTION: What about the respondent's positionthat your position means two innocent people may be lockedup in jail, because suppose Pringle hadn't fessed up, andhe exercised his right to remain silent. Then you mighthave a prolonged periods, assuming they couldn't make bail, three people stuck in the brig and two of them areinnocent.MR. SRINIVASAN: Yes, Justice Ginsburg, it'spossible that innocent persons will be arrested and boundover in circumstances like in this case, but the probablecause standard accepts that possibility as the cost ofensuring the effective enforcement of the criminal laws. In fact, this Court reiterated in Wardlow recently thatthe probable cause standard accepts that innocent personsmay be arrested on occasion. That's simply the cost of aPage th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC functioning criminal justice system.QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. Srinivasan.Ms. Forster, we'll hear from you.ORAL ARGUMENT OF NANCY S. FORSTERON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTMS. FORSTER: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court:This is a unique case with highly unusual facts,and the reason it is unique is because of the facts - notbecause of the facts that exist so much in this case, butbecause of those that do not exist here. There was notestimony whatsoever in this case that Mr. Pringle hadcontrol over or knowledge of the drugs hidden in the backseat of the car -QUESTION: Ms. Forster, when you say testimony, you're not referring to any scheduled hearing or formalhearing, are you?MS. FORSTER: Well, Your Honor, what the court inMaryland reviews on appeal is the motion to suppresshearing, and at that hearing there was no evidencepresented whatsoever that the officer in this case noticedany furtive movements by Mr. Pringle, any furtivegestures, that he said anything suspicious at the scene,or that he acted in any unusually nervous manner. All wehave here -Page th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC QUESTION: Well, I thought we were consideringthis on the basis offered, which is the three people at: a.m. in a high crime neighborhood in a sedan wherethere were a certain quantity of drugs behind the armrestand money in the glove compartment.MS. FORSTER: A few corrections, if I may,Justice O'Connor -QUESTION: Three people in the car.MS. FORSTER: This is - : a.m. is accurate,: a.m. It is in a residential area. This was not infact a high crime area. And I think that under thetotality of circumstances we have to put that in context,and the context is this, that it's : a.m. on a Saturdaynight with a car of three young men in their twenties in aresidential area, and I think that anyone who has children of that age knows that often their Saturday night does noteven begin until : or : p.m.QUESTION: Well, a lot of people wouldn't referto children as being in their twenties, I think.(Laughter.)MS. FORSTER: Young adult children, Your Honor.QUESTION: You - you make an interesting openingstatement that this is a highly unusual - we've - a lot ofus read a lot of these cases. It seems to me this happensall the time, that drugs in the car, the person says, it'sPage th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC not mine. It seems to me that that's commonplace.MS. FORSTER: But what we have here with respectto Mr. Pringle is simply presence and nothing more. Wehave no further -QUESTION: But isn't there - isn't theresomething more than presence here? Isn't the significance- isn't the significant evidence of this case somethingthat appears when you contrast it with Houghton from acouple of years ago? Houghton, you had evidence that thedriver of the car was a recreational, a personal druguser. We don't, I think, in this society, at leastcertainly today, assume that everyone who is in thecompany of a recreational drug user is also a drug user oran accessory to the first person's drug use. Here,however, what the police officer had was evidence, not merely of the time, but of - of three people in arelatively small car with commercial quantities of drugs,an amount of money that was enough to suggest that drugdealing was going on, and I think a - an inference waspossible that someone in that car was dealing in thedrugs.And it seems to me that the different inferencethat can be drawn about the others here as distinct fromthe inference in the Houghton case is, most drug dealersdo not go around in their place of business, the car, withPage th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC people who are totally innocent of drug activity -MS. FORSTER: If I -QUESTION: - and isn't that the basic differencebetween this and Houghton and doesn't that inferencesupport - amount to probably cause?MS. FORSTER: Your Honor, if I - if I may, withrespect to this being packaging - the drugs packaged thatis indicative of sale or for distribution, there wasabsolutely no evidence in this record that this wasanything inconsistent with personal use.QUESTION: Five - five crack cocaine hits?MS. FORSTER: Yes, Your Honor. In fact, I thinkthat there are a lot of crack cocaine addicts for whichthat is a small amount of personal use.QUESTION: But is -QUESTION: How about a big roll of money?MS. FORSTER: And, Your Honor, also, there's aproblem with the record in this respect with regard tomoney -QUESTION: Well, you pointed it out, but I thinkit - I thought, and tell me if I'm wrong here, I thoughtthat it was - it was - the evidence was, regardless of howhe first described the quantity that he saw, I thought theevidence came out that there was and some odd dollarsin it, so I think the judge could infer that it was fairlyPage th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC - a fairly sizable roll of bills.MS. FORSTER: Justice Souter, the actual amountdid not come out until the trial. That never came out atthe motion to suppress hearing, and in fact, the amount ofmoney was never characterized at the motion to suppresshearing by the officer who testified, other than to say hesaw the sum of money, that's all.QUESTION: And what is in - and it was in theglove compartment?MS. FORSTER: It was concealed in the glovecompartment?QUESTION: And it was open, it wasn't in a walletor something like that?QUESTION: A roll of bills.MS. FORSTER: We don't - we don't know. In fact,the officer who - Officer Snyder, when he testified at themotion to suppress hearing, simply said that when Mr.Parlo, the driver of the automobile, went to retrieve hislicense and registration from the glove box, that is whenI saw the money.QUESTION: So it's reasonable -QUESTION: But he - he must have seen it in theform of a - a roll of bills or something, rather than, asJustice Souter said, just not in a wallet.MS. FORSTER: The record is unclear.Page th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC QUESTION: Well, but, I mean, you - you don'thave to have been born yesterday to decide that.MS. FORSTER: Well, the - Your Honor, I guess thepoint is, is that all that was before the trial - thetrial judge at the motion to suppress hearing - there wasnever any characterization of the denomination, theamount, nothing, just the only thing that was said was themoney.QUESTION: Do you have a roll of bills exposed inyour glove compartment?MS. FORSTER: At times I do, Your Honor.QUESTION: You do?MS. FORSTER: Yes.QUESTION: You better be careful if you do.(Laughter.)MS. FORSTER: I might also point out that at theactual trial, the expert who did testify for the Statewith regard to the - whether or not this was an intent todistribute - testified that without Mr. Pringle'sconfession and this statement, he could not in fact saythat this was consistent with an intent to distributebased solely -QUESTION: So it was at least possession. Sowould you concede that a crime - in the officer's presencethere was evidence of the commission of a crime?Page th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC MS. FORSTER: Yes.QUESTION: Then - so the officer says, I knowthat a crime has been committed. In the whole world thereare only three possible people who could do it. Whatinstruction would you give to the officer on the scene whoknows that a crime has been committed, there are threepossible people, but he can't say which? Is it the answerthat he can make no arrest?MS. FORSTER: No, that's not the answer.QUESTION: What arrest can he make?MS. FORSTER: Justice Ginsburg, in this case, theofficer could arrest Mr. Parlo, the driver of theautomobile, because I think it is universally acceptedthat we can impute the driver owner of an automobile withthe knowledge that he knows what is in his car and he has exclusive control over that which is in his car. So theofficer here should have arrested Mr. Parlo.QUESTION: And no one else?MS. FORSTER: Your Honor, I would suggest thatperhaps - I mean, and of course, this is not the issuebefore the Court, that perhaps because of Mr. Smith, thebackseat occupant, may also have been arrested given thatthe nature of an armrest is not really a normal repositorythat one would place personal items in -QUESTION: So maybe - definitely the driver,Page th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC maybe the backseat passenger -MS. FORSTER: Maybe Mr. Smith.QUESTION: - but not the one who in fact -MS. FORSTER: But definitely -QUESTION: - who in fact committed the crime.MS. FORSTER: Definitely not Mr. Pringle, but ofcourse, if we're going to use Mr. Pringle's confession indetermining in hindsight, we need not have -QUESTION: If this were - if this were a bus or atavern or a theater or some of the examples, then itcertainly would unreasonable to assume that the front seatpassenger could reach back to the last row of the theater. But here, this was a small car. It isn't hard forsomebody in the front seat to turn around and push downthe armrest.MS. FORSTER: Justice Ginsburg, I agree with that- that perhaps it would not be difficult, given thecompact nature of this car. However, there was notestimony that in fact that anyone saw Mr. Pringle dothat, number one, and number two -QUESTION: Well, that's because they - theydidn't have a buy committed in the presence of the officerat the scene.MS. FORSTER: Well, I - I understand that, YourHonor.Page th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC QUESTION: I mean, I don't know why that countsagainst -MS. FORSTER: Well, my second response would bethis, that I think that it would be highly unreasonablethat Mr. Smith, the backseat passenger, would allow Mr.Pringle to turn around and store the drugs in the armrestright next to him.QUESTION: Why?QUESTION: Ms. Forster, the Maryland Court ofAppeals, which ruled in your favor, says, during thesearch Officer Snyder seized $ from the glovecompartment, so they are - they accepted that as a fact.MS. FORSTER: Your Honor, the Maryland - with alldue respect, the Maryland Court of Appeals made a mistakein this case because what they said in their opinion -QUESTION: Well, but no, we take the facts as thelower court found them. I mean, I don't think it will doto say that the court of appeals is wrong on the facts.MS. FORSTER: Your Honor, what the court ofappeals incorrectly did in this case was - and theydropped a footnote to suggest that it was unclear to themwhether or not there was a separate motion to suppresshearing or whether there was a combined motion to suppresstrial proceeding. In fact, that's incorrect. There was aseparate motion to suppress hearing.Page th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC QUESTION: But the - but they nonetheless saythat Office Snyder seized $.MS. FORSTER: That's true, Your Honor, and forpurposes of Mr. Pringle's position, the fact that thatmoney is concealed, really it makes no difference theamount. However, if the - as the petitioner and the U.S.Solicitor find the amount to be significant, I think weshould have a clearer record.QUESTION: Why - why did you say the driver, Imean, on your theory? I think it would be harder for thedriver who's driving along to put the bags back in thebackseat than it would be for the passengers.MS. FORSTER: Well, Justice Breyer, that assumesthat the driver did not put it there before he picked uphis passengers.QUESTION: Well, if he put it there before,wouldn't they all know it was there?MS. FORSTER: I don't think so, Your Honor. Ifit's - if it's sandwiched between the armrest as it'spushed up against the seat, no, I don't.QUESTION: But the driver consented to have thecar searched, so one might think, my goodness, if he knewthere were drugs there, why did he say yes when he couldhave said no?MS. FORSTER: Justice Ginsburg, I can tell you asPage th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC a criminal defense lawyer that defendants consent all thetime when they have a car full of drugs and they know thedrugs are there. It's not unusual and it -QUESTION: This is not like the - one of thecases that you relied on is the Di Re case. Your answerto me was, arrest the driver. There, the informer hadfingered the driver, so the police knew that they had theright man when they arrested the driver. Here, it isn'tat all like Di Re because the driver may or may not havebeen the right person.MS. FORSTER: Except that - how this case issimilar to Di Re is that in Di Re this Court held that ifthe act - the criminal activity, the ongoing criminalactivity, is not visible to the occupants, the merepresence is not enough on which to have probable cause to arrest. And here we have concealed drugs and nothing morethan Mr. Pringle's presence in the front seat.QUESTION: But there - there's - there's anotherdifference. The drugs are not locked up in the trunk. They are at a place where the backseat person could pushit down. There wasn't a serious attempt to hide thosedrugs securely.MS. FORSTER: Yes, Justice Ginsburg, I agree withthat. But however, that would only point more closely toMr. Smith, the backseat person sitting directly next toPage th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC the armrest, not to Mr. Pringle, the front seat passenger.QUESTION: Well, except if - if you accept theproposition that the - that there probably was a roll ofbills visible in the glove compartment, Mr. Pringle waswithin easy reach, not even arm's reach of the rolledbills.MS. FORSTER: Well, Justice Souter, the - theproblem with that, of course, it's pure speculation, butwe don't even know if this glove compartment was locked orunlocked. What we know is that it was opened by thedriver at the time he was asked to retrieve his licenseand registration. Whether he had to unlock that glovecompartment is not clear at all for the record.QUESTION: Well, we - we don't know that and wedon't know whether the armrest had come down during the time the backseat passenger was there. There are lots ofthings at a probable cause stage that one does not know,but the very fact - if - if we're going to talk - if we'regoing to find it significant that something is withinreach of one of the passengers or not, I would havesupposed that for probable cause purposes, the fact thatthe money was in reach was a relevant fact.MS. FORSTER: But, Your Honor, I - I think thatif we want to speculate that perhaps then we could saythat that would be enough, but probable cause requires farPage th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC more than speculation. It requires a fair probability, atleast of complicity, and we simply don't have the facts inthis case that would support that fair probability withrespect to Mr. Pringle, because all the record shows isthat Mr. Pringle was present in a car where drugs werefound hidden.And if I may address the common enterprisetheory that both the petitioner and the U.S. Solicitorrelies on in this case, the problem with the commonenterprise theory is that the cases that they cite insupport of that involved ongoing criminal activity thatwas conducted in plain view. You have the Ulster Countycase, where the Court found that the weapons, one of whichwas described as as large as a cannon, that was in plainview of all of the occupants of the car. And in theHoughton case - so it was reasonable in the Ulster Countycase, or if that had in fact been the issue in that case,which it was not -QUESTION: Those I just think that - look, itjust doesn't strike me as plausible that when you havethree people in a car, one of them would stuff some drugsbehind an armrest where they're very easy to find, unlesshe thought the other two were in on it, I mean, unless youthought the other two at least didn't care, and if theydidn't care they're out there transporting the drugs withPage th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC them.MS. FORSTER: Well -QUESTION: So - so how - I don't even know, Imean, what I'm struggling for is, that seems like areasonable inference so how - how do I know, I mean, I'mmaking this kind of inference. How do I know whether Ishould or not?MS. FORSTER: Justice Breyer, the inference thatthe backseat passenger may stuff the drugs in the armrest-QUESTION: Any of the three, I mean, any of themmight, and why would they? Why - you'd have to be crazyto be stuffing crack into a car like that without thinkingyour friends are - have - don't give a damn at the veryleast -MS. FORSTER: But certainly -QUESTION: - and probably are in on it.QUESTION: But certainly, I think that even ifthey - he does that in the view of Mr. Pringle, that - sothat Mr. Pringle has knowledge that the drugs were shovedin the armrest - that certainly does not also go to thenext level, which is that Mr. Pringle possesses thosedrugs. I may see one - a passenger -QUESTION: Would - would - would the - theofficer at that point then be able to say, ah, but, in anyPage th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC case I could arrest the other two because they'reharboring a felon? In other words, you said that youcould maybe arrest the ones who sitting next to the - theother, since the drugs are barely concealed?MS. FORSTER: Well, no, Your Honor, I - perhaps I- I was not clear.QUESTION: Here's what she's thinking, and theremight be a million different crimes. You say to the frontseat passenger, everything's the same, but you say to thefront seat passenger, Mr. Front Seat Passenger, did youknow that there were drugs down there in the armrest? Andhe says yes, and that's all he says. I would imagine hecould be arrested then, couldn't he?MS. FORSTER: No, Your Honor, I -QUESTION: You couldn't arrest him then? MS. FORSTER: I don't think he could be arrested.QUESTION: For transporting the drugs or helpingto transport them or being an accessory or doingsomething?MS. FORSTER: Well, certainly if he's the frontseat passenger and not the driver he's - he's along forthe ride. He's not necessarily the person transporting -QUESTION: Well, he doesn't say anything. Wedon't know anything about it. He just says, sure I knewPage th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC there were drugs back there, that's all.MS. FORSTER: Under those circumstances, YourHonor, I think you'd have a much closer case.QUESTION: No, no, but - but no, look, eitherthere is a crime of being in a car knowing that or thereisn't. Is there or not? I don't know.MS. FORSTER: Well, the crime of possessionrequires not just knowledge, but it also requires theintent to exercise dominion and control over the drug.QUESTION: All right, so - so you'd have to thenmake an inference that a person who says, yes, I knew thedrugs where there, was also going to help later on.MS. FORSTER: Yes. That would -QUESTION: All right. But that's -MS. FORSTER: - there would have to be some reasonable inference -QUESTION: And you think that's not reasonableeither?MS. FORSTER: I think it is not just on thosefacts alone.QUESTION: Okay.QUESTION: Am I right in assuming that the othertwo people in the car didn't testify at the suppressionhearing?MS. FORSTER: No, they did not, Your Honor.Page th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC QUESTION: Or at the trial?MS. FORSTER: No, Your Honor, nor at the trial. Only Officer Snyder testified at the motion to suppresshearing for the State.If I may go back to the common enterprisetheory, as I said, the cases that the State and the U.S.Solicitor rely on here involved criminal activityconducted in plain view, and - which, from which anofficer could reasonably infer, I think, a commonnefarious enterprise. We have a - less than one gram ofcocaine in this case that is hidden, hidden, concealed inthe backseat armrest, and secondly, again, with respect tothis being a commercial quantity of drugs, there is simplynothing in the record that supports that. This was -QUESTION: Well, it was in separate little packets, right?MS. FORSTER: Yes, it was, but that, again -QUESTION: A kind that people would buy for asingle dose?MS. FORSTER: That, again, your Honor, is notinconsistent with personal use, and certainly I shouldthink that if this police -QUESTION: Yeah, and one of their charges waspossession, was it not? I mean, we're not dealing onlywith intent to distribute but -Page th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC MS. FORSTER: That - that is correct. The chargewas possession -QUESTION: Pure possession is what -MS. FORSTER: - and possession with intent.QUESTION: Well, to say it's not inconsistentwith personal use, I don't think gets your client totallyoff the hook, because something can be both consistentwith personal use and consistent with commercial intent. You know, something can - you can infer both ways.MS. FORSTER: However, Justice Rehnquist, herethis amount is not indicative of an operation thatrequires the participation of more than one person. Thisis an amount that, if it's for sale, it's for sale -QUESTION: But - but how about the combination ofthat with the - with the $ roll in the glove compartment?MS. FORSTER: Well, Your Honor, I think then itwould still require speculation on the part of this policeofficer to assume that one was connected to the other. Ithink that the only common enterprise that reasonablycould have been inferred from the facts of this case is acommon enterprise to go from one destination to anotherand nothing more than that, and given the concealed natureof the drugs in this case, the lack of any suspiciousactivities on Mr. Pringle's part, and the lack of, IPage th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC think, any reasonable inference pointing to complicitythat he possessed the hidden drugs, the Maryland Court ofAppeals in this case correctly held that there was noprobable cause to arrest Mr. Pringle, and this rulingshould be affirmed.QUESTION: Thank you, Ms. Forster.MS. FORSTER: Thank you.QUESTION: Mr. Bair, you have minutesremaining.REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF GARY E. BAIRON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERMR. BAIR: Thank you, Your Honor. I just wantedto first clarify any record inconsistencies or - orclarifications that might be in order. I believe that thecourt of appeals' opinion, which is at appendix page A to the petition for cert, makes very clear that the court ofappeals, the highest court in Maryland, construed therecord as the officer seeing a large amount of moneyrolled up in the glove compartment, and it totaled $. That is clearly stated in the court of appeals' opinion,and I would direct the Court's attention to the trialtranscripts at pages to . It is not in the jointappendix but it is in the record in the case, the trialtranscript pages to from the trial on April th of. The police officer who arrested respondentPage th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC testified at the trial that he saw a large roll of moneyin the glove compartment and that it totaled $, soclearly there is record support and the court of appealsso found.With regard to the glove compartment beingclosed or locked, there's nothing in the record everindicating that the glove compartment was locked. I thinkthe only natural inference from this record is that it wasclosed at the time the car was stopped. The officer sawthe drug - excuse me - saw the money in the glovecompartment when the driver went to retrieve his vehicleregistration, and then after the officer obtained consentto search the car, he then opened the glove compartmentagain and seized the money.I think it's ironic that the rule that is being suggested by respondent is the bright line rule that thedriver should always be arrested. I think that'sabsolutely inconsistent with this Court's Fourth Amendmentlaw. In closing, unless the Court has any questions -QUESTION: Yeah, I do have one -MR. BAIR: Yes.QUESTION: - which is, I think she said, look,there are three possible inferences. One is that thepassenger had nothing to do with it, didn't know about it. Two is, everybody knew about it but that's all. AndPage th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC three, they knew about it and wanted to help sell thedrugs. All right. Now, she says, one plus two are sogreat that three isn't probable cause, but about, at leasttwo.MR. BAIR: Your Honor, I think all - the natureof probable cause is that the officer is entitled toaccept under the totality of the facts any of thoseinferences. I think any - any -QUESTION: Two - two isn't a crime, I mean, ifthey just all knew about it?MR. BAIR: Under Maryland law, they have to havean intent to exercise control over the drugs. If theysimply knew about it, that would not be enough for aconviction, but I think -QUESTION: It has to be all three - it has to be three is great enough, so despite one plus two - okay.MR. BAIR: Yes, but I think for probable causepurposes, clearly that would be sufficient. Thank you,Your Honor.CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: Thank you, Mr. Bair. The case is submitted.(Whereupon, at : a.m., the case in theabove-entitled matter was submitted.)Page th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC 