 IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XSOUTH FLORIDA WATER MANAGEMENT DISTRICT, Petitioner :::v. : No. -MICCOSUKEE TRIBE OF INDIANS, :ET AL. :- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XWashington, D.C.Wednesday, January , The above-entitled matter came on for oralargument before the Supreme Court of the United States at: a.m.APPEARANCES:TIMOTHY S. BISHOP, ESQ., Chicago, Illinois; on behalf ofthe Petitioner.JEFFREY P. MINEAR, ESQ., Assistant to the SolicitorGeneral, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; onbehalf of the United States, as amicus curiae,supporting the Petitioner. DEXTER W. LEHTINEN, ESQ., Miami, Florida; on behalf of theRespondents. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. C O N T E N T SORAL ARGUMENT OF TIMOTHY S. BISHOP, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioner JEFFREY P. MINEAR, ESQ.On behalf of the United States, as amicus curiae, supporting the Petitioner DEXTER W. LEHTINEN, ESQ.On behalf of the Respondents PAGE th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. P R O C E E D I N G S(: a.m.)CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: We'll hear argumentnext in No. -, the South Florida Water ManagementDistrict v. the Miccosukee Tribe of Indians.Mr. Bishop.ORAL ARGUMENT OF TIMOTHY S. BISHOPON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERMR. BISHOP: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court:Congress in the Clean Water Act provided that asection permit is required for an addition ofpollutants from a point source to navigable waters.Now, the South Florida Water Management District concedes that the S- pump, through which it conveysnavigable waters from a canal to a water conservationarea, is a confined, discrete, discernible conveyance, andwe agree that the water in the C- canal containspollution which enters that water from a wide variety ofpoint and non-point sources. What we do say is that our pumps do not addpollutants to navigable waters. There is no addition ofpollutants to navigable waters when navigable waters aresimply moved around, which occurs all the time every dayall around the country as public water management agencies th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. allocate and transfer the navigable waters to servebeneficial public purposes.QUESTION: The obvious question on your thing isyou have one of these rivers that's so filthy that you canset fire to it, and next to it is the most pristine,beautiful trout lake ever. And so what we build is alittle pipe and the pipe takes these filthy, absolutelydisgusting water and pours it into this beautiful,pristine trout pond. All right?Now, you're saying that that doesn't fall withinthe statute, and --MR. BISHOP: No. It does fall within thestatute.QUESTION: I mean it doesn't require a permit. MR. BISHOP: It -- it would not require asection permit. There are all sorts of layers ofprotection from that occurring. That would never --QUESTION: Well, as far as this statute isconcerned, EPA, it wouldn't. And -- and, of course, theobvious thing is that --MR. BISHOP: No. That -- that's not trueeither, Justice Breyer. QUESTION: I mean, EPA through the permit. Through the permit.MR. BISHOP: Through the , but this -- this th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. is a complex statute with many, many layers of protectionsfor the Nation's waters.QUESTION: And it would protect --MR. BISHOP: To begin with, there is always alayer of State protection. The statute requires thatwater quality standards be established for portions of thenavigable waters. Those water quality standards areimplemented through total maximum daily load requirementsthat the States are -- are required under the statute to-- to design. The States implement the TMDL's and thewater quality standards through non-point source pollutionprograms that include land use restrictions, that includeadvice to and requirements on landowners as to bestmanagement practices.QUESTION: I -- I suppose it's beyond thepurview of this case. Do we know whether or not thetransfer of waters in this case would violate those otherregulations? MR. BISHOP: No, it does not. The -- the --there are exceedances. Understand that the S- pump,while not permitted under , is permitted by the Stateunder The Everglades Forever Act. But there are waterquality standards for the canal and for the waterconservation area. The -- there is compliance with bothof those. There are exceedances, phosphorus exceedances, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. from time to time, but those are built into the permit.The -- the cleaning up of the Everglades, whichis something that everyone is committed to and thedistrict is deeply committed to, is not an overnightprocess. And so there are plans through the ComprehensiveEverglades Restoration statute and also under TheEverglades Forever Act to address these exceedances in thelong term, but --QUESTION: Mr. Bishop, the Eleventh Circuit saidthat moving water within a single, distinct body of watercould never result in the addition of pollutants to thatbody of water. Now, I assume you agree with thatstatement? MR. BISHOP: Well, I agree with that, but we and the United States go further here in arguing that thestatute -- what the statute prohibits is the addition ofpollutants to navigable waters. Navigable waters aredefined in the statute as the waters of the United States. It's our position and the position of the United States,if I read their brief correctly, that an addition ofpollutants from a point source occurs when the pollutantis introduced to the navigable waters for the first time. And that is what the --QUESTION: So in -- in Justice Breyer's example,if the pristine trout pond is waters of the United States, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. then there would not be an addition of the pollutant towaters of the United States when the filthy river waspumped into the pond.MR. BISHOP: No. That would violate State waterquality standards which are --QUESTION: No. I -- maybe it would violate thestandards, but I'm -- I'm just talking about the provisionrequired here.MR. BISHOP: It would not require a section permit, Justice Souter. QUESTION: And -- and it would not do so becauseit would not be the addition of a pollutant to waters ofthe United States. MR. BISHOP: That is right.QUESTION: Assuming the river is navigable, thefilthy river. Right?MR. BISHOP: Assuming that it's a navigablewater under the Clean Water Act --QUESTION: Right.MR. BISHOP: -- and that -- which is a broaderconcept than waters that one can run --QUESTION: Well, what I'm driving at here is --is the following. You have ambiguous language. I thinkit's a very difficult question. If I accept your side ofit, it seems to me I live -- leave the EPA without any th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. power to deal with what I just called the filthy riverproblem, or at least not the -- I'm not trying to betricky in my words. I -- I understand they have otherauthority and so forth. But there is a filthy riverproblem if I take your side of it.And if I take their -- if I take your side ofit, that is some kind of a problem. You can explain to mein second why it's no problem whatsoever. I'd like tohear that. I want to say the opposite thing.Your problem that you raise, if I take theirside, is suddenly everybody in the California waterproject, which is huge, central valley irrigation, has torun off and get permits, and that too is a big problem. So it sounds to me that that second problem could be dealt with by EPA through rules that would, ineffect, not make them come in because they'd automaticallyget permits in certain circumstances. But if I take yourside of it, the opposite filthy river problem, there'snothing to be done. MR. BISHOP: Your premise --QUESTION: So that's what I say moves me at thesecond for hypothetical purposes towards their side, butI'm asking you to move me back.MR. BISHOP: Your premise is incorrect, JusticeBreyer. Of course, moving filthy water to a pristine th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. water is a problem. I've already explained that it'saddressed and addressed comprehensively and rigorously atthe State level, as Congress contemplated in the statutethrough the water quality standards and TMDL's. But beyond that, it is simply wrong to say thatthe Federal Government lacks power in these cases.First of all, it has broad power under section of the Rivers and Harbors Act to protect navigability,and that -- that provision also includes power for theCorps to engage in a broad public interest review wheneverthe course of a waterway is changed. Second, there are other provisions that dealwith emergency type situations. If public health orwelfare, for example, is implicated, then section of the statute gives EPA broad powers to go into court andget a restraining order not just for the discharge ofpollutants, but much more broadly than that.QUESTION: Mr. Bishop, can we see -- take thisconcrete case? I mean, this is a case about phosphorusbeing dumped into a relatively unpolluted body of water. What is the State of Florida or anybody doing to reducethe level of phosphorus that comes from this pump and getsdumped into the pure water?MR. BISHOP: Well, this has -- this has been thefocus of not only our attention but of the Corps and EPA's th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. attention for a long time through the -- the ComprehensiveEverglades Restoration Project. If I can -- and there area lot of things that are happening to -- to reduce thephosphorus level, some of which are sort of purely Statewater quality standard implementation projects, such asprohibiting the sale of certain types of fertilizers,restricting the use of fertilizers that containphosphorus. But the long-term CERP plans here haveessentially two components. The first one is that much of the water in theC- basin, in the canal, actually comes from theconservation area through seepage. There's an enormousamount of --QUESTION: Yes. May I ask you a question right -- I know some seeps through, but what is the principalsource of the water in the C- basin?MR. BISHOP: Well, my understanding is that itis seepage. I mean, obviously there are --QUESTION: You think that's the principalsource? It seeps in. You're just pumping it back intothe Everglades?MR. BISHOP: That is my -- that is myunderstanding. There is an enormous amount of seepage,and the seepage involved --QUESTION: But where does the water that the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. people in the western part of Broward County use to watertheir lawns and bathe and so -- where does that water comefrom?MR. BISHOP: From -- from the aquifer. I mean,obviously, in -- in --QUESTION: There's an aquifer to the east of the-- of the levees?MR. BISHOP: There is an aquifer that -- anunconfined aquifer that is really indistinguishable fromthe surface water that underlies the levee. But it's --it is not divided by the levee. It underlies the water,the surface water, on both sides --QUESTION: Are you telling me there's an aquiferto the east of the levee?MR. BISHOP: To the east of the levees and tothe -- it's --QUESTION: Which is a separate source of waterthan the source that feeds the large -- the WCA- --MR. BISHOP: No, no. This is an aquifer thatunderlies both sides of the levee, the WCA and the basin.But if I can get back to -- I mean, your -- yourquestion. Obviously, the seepage is an enormous source. What I am told is that seepage alone will be enough toflood out towns like --QUESTION: But the seepage can't -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. MR. BISHOP: There is other --QUESTION: But the seepage can't contain any ofthe pollution --MR. BISHOP: No. QUESTION: -- because the water on the west sideof the levee is -- is clean.MR. BISHOP: Well, it's not clean. I mean, itdoes contain pollutants under the definition of the CleanWater Act because that's a broad definition.QUESTION: Well, it's certainly cleaner than thewater on the east side or you wouldn't have a lawsuit.MR. BISHOP: There is a substantial amount ofwater in the C- canal that comes from a -- a wide arrayof sources within the basin.QUESTION: But the water -- the seepage clearlyis not what causes the problem. MR. BISHOP: And that is -- just to go back toJustice Ginsburg's question, one way that we areaddressing the phosphorus here is with the Corps. TheCorps has built a new set of pumps right next to the S-that is intended to intercept that cleaner seepage water,and it will pump that seepage water right back into theWCA before it is mixed with the more polluted waters fromthe C- basin. So that is one part of the effort. It isto get the seepage water back into the water conservation th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. area before it mixes with more polluted water.QUESTION: Which -- which means --MR. BISHOP: Those pumps are --QUESTION: Which means that the water to theeast will be even more polluted and when you pump thatback in, you'll be pumping more polluted water back in.MR. BISHOP: And the solution to that problem isthat with the Corps and the task force and the EPA, anumber of huge storage basins are being built. Theserequire, obviously, buying a lot of land, putting togetherthe land necessary for these STA's. But the -- thepurpose of the plans under CERP is to stop as much wateras possible getting from the C- to the waterconservation area. And so storing as much water as possible in these basins will allow the phosphorus andother pollutants to settle out, and so water that is --and will also reduce the total amount of water that needsto be sent back into the conservation area.The combination of these new pumps getting the-- the cleaner water back into the -- into theconservation area and the storage basins, which willreduce the amount of flow and allow the pollutants to --to seep down, is -- is the essential way in which underCERP the problem of the phosphorus will be addressed. No one disputes -- and the district least of all th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. disputes -- that cleaning up the Everglades and reducingthe amount of phosphorus that gets into the waterconservation area which, in turn, feeds the Everglades isa very important consideration.But you also have to understand that ourpurposes -- we are not -- we are not just dumping thiswater in -- in the water conservation area. This watercould be sent to the ocean. In fact, on the easternportion of the canal, the water is sent to the ocean. Butthe -- there are other functions, important functions,that are served by the water conservation area,maintaining water in there. One is the ability to --QUESTION: This is all very important, but onthe legal question that we have, do you take the position that it's a single body of water --MR. BISHOP: We take --QUESTION: -- and therefore no permit isrequired?MR. BISHOP: We take the position, first of all,that all of the navigable waters of the United States areunitary for purposes of determining whether they are --QUESTION: That's an extreme position, and youprobably have a fall-back position. MR. BISHOP: And the alternative --(Laughter.) th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. QUESTION: You -- you go --MR. BISHOP: We do argue --QUESTION: What -- what's the fall-back?MR. BISHOP: The fall-back is precisely the onethat you have described, Justice O'Connor, which is thatthese were -- these were unitary waters. They are dividedsolely by manmade structures that are changeable and arechanging.QUESTION: Well, they have been altered bymanmade structures so that they perhaps are no longer asingle body. Is that what the Eleventh Circuit concludedin effect? MR. BISHOP: Yes, I think the --QUESTION: That the manmade structures haveseparated them and they're no longer unitary.MR. BISHOP: It -- it did, but in doing that, itignored a number of important considerations. One is theunitary aquifer that I have talked about. The second isthe constant circulation --QUESTION: Does the record describe thataquifer? Does the record describe that aquifer? MR. BISHOP: The -- yes. I -- I believe it'sJ.A. .QUESTION: While you're looking for that, I -- Ifind it hard to understand how you can interpret -- I can th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. understand how you can interpret the phrase, navigablewaters, to mean all navigable waters. I can't understandhow you can interpret the phrase, navigable waters, tomean only those navigable waters that are within a singleaquifer or within a single drainage district. How -- howcan you possibly derive that interpretation from the text?MR. BISHOP: No, I agree, Justice Scalia.QUESTION: Which is -- which is why you took theextreme position, that is really textually not veryextreme at all.MR. BISHOP: No. I agree with that, JusticeScalia, obviously. But I -- but I do think that if therewere a level of discomfort with that argument, which Ithink is -- you know, it's fully justified by the statute. And I'd like to come back to that, Justice O'Connor, andexplain the other textual basis for -- for that argument. Nevertheless --QUESTION: Mr. Bishop, as I --MR. BISHOP: -- the concept of an addition --QUESTION: -- as I understand, that was theGovernment's brief and it was spelled out very clearly. Ididn't understand your brief to be taking the positionthat all we have to worry about is the term, navigablewater, then that's the end of it.MR. BISHOP: Well, we think that there is more th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. to it than just the term, navigable water. We think that-- that we do -- we have argued throughout this case,including in the lower courts, that the navigable watersare a unitary concept for purposes of section .QUESTION: Mr. Bishop, isn't the problem withthe unitary concept idea that given the purposes of theClean Water Act, it makes great sense if there is a way ofdistinguishing between bodies of water to distinguish themin terms of their -- their pollution? And the -- in -- ineffect, the -- the function of the kind of unitarydefinition is a function that -- that works against theprotection of clean water as against to dirty water thatcan be added to it. And -- and shouldn't the -- shouldn'tthe purposes of the act be taken into consideration in defining what is a body or a unified body of water?MR. BISHOP: The act does distinguish. Congressdistinguished, when it wanted to, between the waters ofthe United States and specific portions of the navigablewater. And there's an example of that at the bottom of ain the addendum.QUESTION: Are -- are you talking about a -- adistinction based on the -- the quality of the water aspolluted or clean or relatively polluted/relatively clean?MR. BISHOP: The statute specifies that waterquality standards which identify what the goal is for the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. level of pollutants in the water and the TMDL's, the totalmaximum daily loads, that are used to achieve those waterquality standards are set for specific portions or partsof the navigable water. That is, the State -- a Staterole is to identify, implement, and to enforce those waterquality standards which do apply to separate bodies ofwater. The regulations talk about bodies of water.QUESTION: So you're saying -- you're sayingthat the problem that I'm raising is a problem that isdealt with solely by water quality standards and cannot bedealt with by -- by point source emission regulation. MR. BISHOP: Well, I mean, that's -- that's -- Imean, because of the complexities of the act, that's notquite right. As a definitional matter, the Congress clearly distinguished between the navigable waters andthose portions as to which water quality standards were tobe set. In implementing water quality standards, a Statemay take account of the -- of effluence reaching the waterthrough point sources. And in fact, there is a separateprovision of the statute --QUESTION: All right, but assuming a State maydo that, why does it follow that in defining bodies ofwater for point source purposes, we may not do that?MR. BISHOP: Well, just let me run through, if Imay. I mean, first of all, there -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. QUESTION: No, but answer my question before yourun through because I -- I tend to lose the answers in the-- in the run-throughs.You're -- you're saying, look, when we'retalking about water quality standards, there aredistinctions made within a given body of water or withinnavigable water. And I think you're saying that for apoint source emission issues, we don't make that kind ofdistinction. My question was, if the distinction can bemade and in fact is made, with respect to water qualitystandards, why should it follow that the same distinctioncannot be made for purposes of definition in point sourceproblems? MR. BISHOP: Because Congress recognized that this is a cooperative federalism statute where the FederalGovernment and the State government has their role --QUESTION: As I understood you --MR. BISHOP: -- and in the plain language --QUESTION: -- you didn't say it cannot be made. You said it has not been made --MR. BISHOP: Well, it hasn't --QUESTION: -- in the statute.MR. BISHOP: It has been made in the statute.QUESTION: It has not been made and you'resaying it would be illegitimate to make it as a matter of th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. interpretation. And my question is, why would it beillegitimate as a matter of interpretation?MR. BISHOP: Well, that's my run-through. Theplain language of the statute is navigable waters definedas the waters of the United States. That is backed up bythe use of the broad term discharge in section (a)where Congress meant to reach much more and which isn'tlimited by this language of an addition to the navigablewaters.It is backed up by (f)()(F) where Congressdescribed as non-point source pollution pollutionresulting from the changes in the flow and circulation ofnavigable waters or ground waters caused by flow diversiondevices like the pump.And it's backed up by the fact that neitherCongress nor EPA has ever at any time since suggestedthat these sorts of movements of water should be governedby section .If I may reserve the balance of my time.QUESTION: Then what did -- what did the tribemean when it said that there are, I think -- majorcomponents of the Everglades construction project arealready under NPDES programs? MR. BISHOP: Those are the STA's. Theregulation ., the definitional regulation, defines th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. treatment areas as not being navigable waters. So whenyou move water from a treatment area to a navigable water,that requires permitting.If I may reserve the balance of my time.QUESTION: Very well, Mr. Bishop.Mr. Minear, we'll hear from you.ORAL ARGUMENT OF JEFFREY P. MINEARON BEHALF OF THE UNITED STATES,AS AMICUS CURIAE, SUPPORTING THE PETITIONERQUESTION: Mr. Minear, before you start, if Imay just -- could you tell me if you think the recordexplains where the water in the eastern -- east of theC- basin originates?MR. MINEAR: I'm not sure the record is clear onthis, Your Honor.QUESTION: Because the part that Mr. Bishopbrought my attention to does not answer the question. MR. MINEAR: I'm -- I cannot give you assurance.QUESTION: You don't -- you don't know theanswer.MR. MINEAR: I do not know the answer to that,Your Honor. Mr. Chief Justice, and may it please the Court:The United States submits that the Clean WaterAct does not require the South Florida Water Management th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. District to obtain a section permit for the operationof water control facilities like the S- pump which simplymove water from one location to another. We believe thatposition is correct on the basis of both the text of thestatute, the overarching purposes of the statute and itsstructure, and also EPA's actual practices.I'd like to turn first to the text of thestatute. Section states that a NPDES permit isrequired when there is an addition of a pollutant tonavigable waters from a point source, and section goes on to state that a -- the waters -- the navigablewaters are the waters of the United States.Under that definition and those statutoryprovisions, when an industrial out-fall introduces pollutants for the first time into the waters of theUnited States, an NPDES permit is required. However, whena water control facility like the S- pump simply moveswater from one place to another, together with anypollutants that might be contained therein, thatregulatory regime is not called into play.QUESTION: But if in fact an industrialist addsquite -- something quite filthy out of a pipe into a cleanbody of water, there is no addition if, at the same time,in some other body of water, he's taking out an equivalentamount. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. MR. MINEAR: I think that the -- the textprecludes that understanding because it states anyaddition of any pollutant. And we think the use -- thesedefinitions are written quite carefully, and we think thatthose -- the term any --QUESTION: So a single body of water is --MR. MINEAR: -- indicates you can't rule it out.QUESTION: A single body of water, which seemsto have been a concept that the EPA has used for years andyears -- that's irrelevant.MR. MINEAR: That is -- that's not the case thatEPA has used a single body of water.QUESTION: They haven't. They've never said --MR. MINEAR: No. I think that in fact the --the approach that EPA has taken in this is -- can be seenfrom a number of sources. First of all, EPA has neverattempted to regulate water control facilities like theS- pump in the years that the NPDES program has beenin place. And what's more, in cases, the closelyanalogous cases, of dams where water is simply beingpassed through a dam, EPA has taken the position that anNPDES permit is not required. Part of the reason for this is there are otherregulatory programs that deal with these problems. Justice Breyer mentioned the problem of taking a polluted th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. river and combining it with a pristine river. Thatactually implicates a number of different programs. Firstof all, in the case of the polluted river, that river issubject to requirements, and so there will be stepstaken to prevent the discharge of pollutants into thepolluted river.The States also are required, or at leaststrongly urged by the Government and with strong carrotand stick type incentives, to adopt non-point sourcepollution programs to reduce any non-point pollution thatmight be going into that polluted river. If there's an attempt to connect that river toanother river, it does implicate, as Mr. Bishop indicated,the section of the Rivers and Harbors Act which dealswith regulations that result in the change in the flowof --QUESTION: What about -- C- doesn't comewithin that because it's not polluted enough?MR. MINEAR: C-, when it was first constructedat that -- at the time that the C- canal was built backin the 's, most likely -- well, it was in factconstructed by the Corps of Engineers. So it was subjectto the public interest review provisions that the Riversand Harbors Act envisions. When the -- the Corpsinvestigates private connections of this type, it conducts th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. what's called a public interest review, and this isdescribed in your case, United States v. Alaska at U.S. .QUESTION: What about the other half of what Isaid, that I'm thinking if you were to be wrong on that,if I thought you were wrong on what you've said --assumption -- then it's not so bad for you because EPA canhandle what I call the California central river valleyproject by the Costle -- you know what I'm thinking of. Leventhal's opinion in Costle. Does that ring a bell? NRDC v. Costle. Does that ring a bell to you?MR. MINEAR: I'm afraid I'm not familiar withthat. That's --QUESTION: He lists -- in that opinion there, he lists -- he lists a set of things that EPA could do underthe permit requirement that would, in fact, alleviate theadministrative burden and would make sure that all thesepipes and things in California don't really have anadministrative problem or other problem by having to go toEPA to get the permit. MR. MINEAR: EPA has substantial discretion tominimize the types of regulatory burdens that might beimposed here. Nevertheless, they're likely to besubstantial. And what they amount to in this case isreally a belt and suspenders approach, and you know, the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. additional haberdashery is fine except for the cost thatit does entail. In this case it could be very substantialfor projects throughout the Nation.QUESTION: Don't you think there would beanother lawsuit quite promptly if -- if EPA simply saidyou automatically get a permit for this type of operation?MR. MINEAR: I think that's correct. And inaddition, I think we have to consider what would a permitaccomplish in this case that the CERP project that theCorps of Engineers has -- is implementing is not alreadydoing. That project is designed to deal with theseproblems.The permitting program is really designed todeal with the specific problem of introducing pollutants into waterways for the first time. It's really notcapable of dealing with this problem of water transfersthat move from one place to another. Rather, there areother programs that deal with this. If it's a Federalprogram, it would be subject to NEPA, for instance, andthere would be an environmental analysis before any actionwas taken. In the case of the Rivers and Harbors Act that Idescribed before, that would also implicate section ofthe Clean Water Act, which requires a water qualitycertification, a determination from the State that in fact th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. waters would be -- would not violate water qualitystandards.I'd like to make the point also that ourposition is not an extreme one in saying that the -- thetext requires that we only look at the pollution when itfirst enters the water. Rather, it's a -- it's a approachthat recognizes that cleaning up polluted water requires anumber of different control strategies. The NPDESpermitting program is only one.QUESTION: Well, what do we make of informationsuch as that provided by the State of Pennsylvania,talking about the application of the permit system tointerbasin transfers in that State and saying howbeneficial it has been?MR. MINEAR: Well, the State of -- theCommonwealth of Pennsylvania can, of course, adopt thattype of program on its own under its State law to dealwith those types of programs. Any State can.QUESTION: It tells us that it's been gettingpermits under this Federal scheme and that it's beenhelpful.MR. MINEAR: That might very well be, and it isallowed to supplement the Federal scheme with its ownState additions. But other States, such as California,have found -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. QUESTION: I don't understand that. Youconceded that in Pennsylvania EPA permits are obtained?MR. MINEAR: No. These -- the -- EPA hasdelegated authority to implement the permitting program toa number of States, including Pennsylvania. SoPennsylvania is issuing the permits in lieu of theFederal Government. My point is --QUESTION: It's done the same thing in Florida. EPA has delegated to the State agency, hasn't it?MR. MINEAR: That's true. In fact, it has inmost States. So in fact, in most States the States areissuing these permits with substantial guidance from theFederal Government. The Federal Government is setting thefloor for what the permit requirements are, but the States are free to supplement their permitting programs withadditional State requirements and many do so. Many Stateslike California actually operate with additional programsapart from the Clean Water Act. I think that JudgeKennedy when he was -- or Justice Kennedy -- excuse me --when he was a judge on the Ninth Circuit, wrote an opinionconcerning the New Malones project where he talked aboutthe imposition of water quality standards at -- at theState level on Federal projects and indicated that theStates, in fact, do have that authority as well.My -- my point here is that there are a number th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. of different mechanisms here in which these problems canbe addressed, and the important point is to choose theright one. In this context, the NPDES permitting programis not the correct mechanism for dealing with the problemsthat the Florida Everglades faces. Instead, that problemis being addressed comprehensively through Federal andState programs. QUESTION: Is that the view that EPA takes?MR. MINEAR: Yes, that is the view. The briefof the United States here is it reflects a consensus of anumber of agencies, not only EPA but the Department of theInterior, the Corps of Engineers, and the Department ofArmy. And I'd like to mention there's been somesuggestion that this Court should draw inferences from thenames that are on the cover of the brief, and thoseinferences should not be drawn. The names on the briefhave no relationship to whether or not -- the absence ofthe names of an agency does not indicate the brief does --does not represent the views of a particular agency. Thatcan be seen in a number of briefs, including the Swankbrief from two terms ago in which Administrator Brownerwas a party in that case, a party to the proceeding, andyet there are no EPA counsel names on the brief.QUESTION: But I notice that there's a brief th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. filed by former administrators and general counsel whichsays that the position of the EPA back in ' was that ofyour opponent.MR. MINEAR: They're relying on a generalcounsel opinion that addressed the question of irrigationreturn flows. Congress repudiated the position that wastaken there years later in the amendments. Itmentions this point only tangentially. It's not evenamong the questions presented that are listed in thatopinion. And I think what's more telling is the practiceof EPA since that time. EPA has not required permits fromwater control facilities to do no more than move water.QUESTION: Can I make one thing clear? You donot endorse the position of the petitioner that it has tobe the point source itself that -- that causes thepollution.MR. MINEAR: That is correct. We do not endorsethat addition.Thank you, Your Honor. QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. Minear.Mr. Lehtinen, we'll hear from you.ORAL ARGUMENT OF DEXTER W. LEHTINENON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTSMR. LEHTINEN: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. please the Court:The Miccosukee Tribe and Friends of theEverglades contend that a pollutant is added to navigablewaters whenever it's put into navigable waters where itwould not otherwise be, whenever it's put somewhere whereit's not already there or would not naturally flow.The receiving navigable water body is the pointof focus under the Clean Water Act because the actspecifically provides for designating different waterbodies with specific designated uses and with associatedwater quality standards that will protect those uses. Andthe associated permitting system of the act rests onthe assumption that the proprietary of the -­proprietariness of the proposed addition of a pollutant will be measured against the receiving navigable waterbody's designated use and against the receiving navigablewater body's water quality standards.QUESTION: What -- what says that? I mean, the-- the text we're dealing with here talks about addingpollutants to the navigable waters of the United States ifyou read the two definitions together. And as I seewhat's happened here, no pollutants have been added to thenavigable waters of the United States. The total amountof pollutants is the same.MR. LEHTINEN: Yes. Justice Scalia, it says any th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. addition of any pollutant to -- to navigable waters. Thereason navigable waters need not have and would beconfusing to have any adjective is because the location ofthe point source inherently dictates the receivingnavigable water.QUESTION: You -- it could -- it could say to aparticular navigable water. It could have said that veryeasily. It doesn't -- it doesn't say that. It says tonavigable waters. MR. LEHTINEN: It could, Your Honor, but sincethe permitting system is from a point source, it would notmake sense to say to any other navigable water that thepoint source is not discharging to. The point sourceitself makes the location of the navigable waters specified by the fact that the point source can onlydischarge --QUESTION: No, it doesn't. It doesn't -- itdoesn't do what you say the provision does, that -- thatis, to make it unlawful without a permit to add to aparticular navigable water a pollutant that is not alreadythere but that is elsewhere in the navigable waters. Asit's written, all it says is you shall not add pollutantsto the navigable waters of the United States. That's howthose definitions work out. And that has not happenedhere. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. MR. LEHTINEN: Yes, Justice Scalia, but if thatwere the meaning of that text and the lack of anadjective, any navigable waters were to mean that once innavigable waters, that pollutant could be spread to anynavigable water with any different designated use or anydifferent water quality --QUESTION: As far as this provision isconcerned.MR. LEHTINEN: That's correct, Your Honor. Andthis provision has been recognized as being the mainmethod by which the Clean Water Act cleans up water.The -- the problem of the polluted river ordirty river is one problem with the interpretation thatthere's a singular navigable waters. An example -- a specific example is the Dubois case, in which thePemigewassett River was, in fact, so bad that the FirstCircuit said it peeled paint off of the adjoiningbuildings on the bank. That river, under thisinterpretation, would have been put into Loon Pondstrictly for the purpose of resupplying Loon Pond. Itdidn't always go through snow-making equipment. The FirstCircuit made it clear that sometimes it is directly fromthe east branch to Loon Pond. Furthermore, it would make it impossible toactually administer the permitting system because a permit th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. writer is told to evaluate the propriety of the proposedaddition of a pollutant based on the designated use andthe water quality standards of the receiving navigablewater. It wouldn't be effective if thereafter that permitwere deemed, as a matter of law, to have authorized theaddition of that pollutant throughout the entire UnitedStates to any navigable water no matter what itsdesignated use and no matter what its water qualitystandard.QUESTION: Is it just the First Circuit case oris there any history in the EPA over the years, I guess years, where they did make clear that the navigable watersof the United States -- the discharge is not just like onebig water where the Sacramento River and Hudson are part of the same big water?MR. LEHTINEN: Yes, the United States, JusticeBreyer, on many occasions -- starting in EPA generalcounsel issued the opinion that surface water runoff andreturn flows from irrigation, even when in navigablewaters, that is to say an agricultural canal, when thendischarged to other navigable waters, would require apermit. Congress did not repudiate that because what --Congress, if it had repudiated it, would have said thatwas not an addition. In fact, Congress --QUESTION: Return flow from -- from irrigation th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. seems to me quite different. I mean, that is takingsomething out of the navigable waters, adding something toit, and then returning it to the navigable waters. It's-- it's the fertilizer and -- and other pollutants thatare picked up in the irrigation process that -- that isthe problem. MR. LEHTINEN: But the question --QUESTION: That's quite different from justtransferring from one navigable water to another.MR. LEHTINEN: Well, those elements of it are,Justice Scalia, but what the EPA opinion --QUESTION: But why are they different? They goalong and the water is pure and it sort of picks up somedrainage from Tallahassee or someplace, and now it's not quite the same, and by the time they get it next to thebig lake there, it's filled with stuff, just like the --just like the stuff that drains off the land.MR. LEHTINEN: Well, it is not different when itgets into the canal. The C- canal, which is a drainagecanal that receives surface water runoff, like an -- aagricultural canal that receives irrigation return flow,is itself a jurisdictional navigable waters under thisCourt's decisions in Riverside Bayview simply because it'sconnected to, in this case, the Atlantic. In other words,it's not navigable in fact itself. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. QUESTION: Well, apart from the -- what -- --MR. LEHTINEN: Yes.QUESTION: -- general counsel opinion, which --which applied to -- to return from -- from cultivatedland, do you -- do you deny that -- that the EPA has neversought to require permitting of this kind of a facilityfor years? Is -- is that inaccurate?MR. LEHTINEN: Yes. Well, it is inaccurate inthe sense that in EPA told the South Florida WaterManagement District, to its chagrin, that it would have tohave NPDES permits for all of these Evergladesconstruction project features that were motivated by theUnited States v. South Florida Water --QUESTION: So that States have been violatingthe Federal law for years and nobody knew about it?MR. LEHTINEN: I'm sorry, Your Honor? QUESTION: The States have been violating theFederal law for years.MR. LEHTINEN: Well, in most cases --QUESTION: That's kind of an extraordinaryinterpretation.MR. LEHTINEN: In most cases, Your Honor, thesimple movement of water does not end up, even underMiccosukee -- this case, requiring a permit. Most of them th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. are -- are not covered. They return to the same waterbody. The dam cases make it clear that that's a return tothe same water body. If they're --QUESTION: You don't -- you think the dam casesare correctly decided and you don't need to distinguishthem?MR. LEHTINEN: We distinguish them, Your Honor,because the dam cases dealt with the condition -- the D.C.Circuit made it clear in the Gorsuch case in ' that dam-induced changes in condition such as super-saturation andso forth, and that that was not a pollutant. They didn'tsay dams weren't point sources. They said that was not apollutant.QUESTION: I thought same water body made no difference to you. I thought neither side thought thatthe answer to this case depended upon whether it was thesame water body or not. If -- do you think that if it --if -- if it is established that -- that this is the samewater body, these pumps would be okay without permitting.MR. LEHTINEN: No, Your Honor, because --QUESTION: I thought so. Neither side takesthat position.MR. LEHTINEN: Neither side takes the position,but it is true that the phrase, water body, because it'sused in so much of the EPA regulations, is a shorthand for th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. saying that the pollutant is added to a navigable waterthat wouldn't otherwise receive it. The fact is that asthe First Circuit said, the argument about whether LoonPond, well up here -- uphill from the Pemigewassett River,east branch, was hydrologically connected or not wasirrelevant because Loon Pond would never receive waterfrom the Pemigewassett River, even though that Loon Pondeventually flowed through the watershed to the river.QUESTION: The dam --QUESTION: May I ask you a question about --QUESTION: -- our problem, aren't they, that --that the -- for you. That is that it seems to me thatunder your definition, it's going to be the same body ofwater. And then if you say, well, it didn't add any pollutant that wouldn't have been there otherwise, I betthat with most dams that isn't so, I mean, because there'sa lot of mud stirred up in that lake behind the, say,Boulder, Hoover Dam and so forth. A big problem. And if we think of California and the centralvalley water project, my goodness, you're not going to saythat's all one body of water. You have the Sacramento,San Joaquin, Los Angeles. You know, it goes all over theplace. And so that's their big problem. They aresaying if you -- if you don't take a strong reading of the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. dam cases, one that hurts you, we're suddenly going tofind ourselves with -- with water valley projects all overthe United States and million permits required, and itjust won't work. All right. So what's your response to that? MR. LEHTINEN: Well, Your Honor, first withrespect to the same body of water, if you were referringto the Everglades, this is a -- C- is a canal that hasgas stations, urban shopping malls, industrial parksaround it. And the canal itself was dug out. It's not asthough . percent of the Everglades were removed. Sothat canal has been dug deeper. The Everglades' ecosystemremoved. It's distinctly different. QUESTION: That's why I think we need a separate body of water requirement there. But what about the otherpart of what they say?MR. LEHTINEN: Well, with respect to theselarger water projects, Your Honor, first of all, ifthey're withdrawing water, they're not going to come underour condition, withdrawing and then being used for aconsumptive use and so forth. That's already dealt with adifferent way. If they're returning the water throughirrigation return flow, that's already exempt.Otherwise, if they're -- the State doesdesignate the use and does designate the water quality th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. standards. So these large movements through canals andwater projects -- the State controls the designation ofthose uses.And even if they were found to be a movementfrom one navigable water to another, they're likely toqualify for a general permit. As Colorado said on page of its brief, none of their movements of water, throughany structures in Colorado, interbasin transfers, resultin a water quality standard violation. Accordingly,Colorado solves any problem it has with one generalpermit.As well, most of these big movements of watermove water that doesn't distinctly, as in this case, movewater that's four times higher in a certain content than the receiving water body's water quality standard. TheState law for the Everglades and only the Evergladesprotection area, not the C- canal, is now parts perbillion. That actual number was changed and becameeffective January of , but it had a separatedesignation and water quality standard throughout all ofthe time of this case. QUESTION: May I ask you two questions that I --I think you may have answered, but I'm just not sure? Doyou -- in your view is water conservation area and theC- basin the same body of water, or are they different th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. bodies? That's my first question. My second question is in your view does therecord tell us where the water from the C- basinprimarily comes from?MR. LEHTINEN: Yes, Justice Stevens. Withrespect to the first, they're distinctly different bodiesof water. The C- canal is a canal that has been dugartificially deep, surrounded by gas stations, shoppingmalls. QUESTION: I understand that.MR. LEHTINEN: And it does not have the ecologyof the Everglades. Nobody stands at a gas station andsays to their child, there, John, is the Everglades. It-- it has -- and it doesn't have Everglades water because Everglades water would naturally flow west to east, andthey have blocked that flow from the Everglades into thesloughs and into the Atlantic Ocean.QUESTION: Then what about the second question? MR. LEHTINEN: With respect to the second, therecord shows the trial court found that substantialsurface water runoff goes into the C-, and --QUESTION: That's right, but why does the --what is the source of the runoff?MR. LEHTINEN: Well, the source of the runoff issometimes rainfall. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. QUESTION: I understand. MR. LEHTINEN: And it is sometimes from theaquifer --QUESTION: But surely it didn't get all theirwater from -- from rain.MR. LEHTINEN: And it is sometimes from theaquifer below the C- because the C- basin, as opposedto the canal -- the C- basin is a -- has been drainedand substantial fill put in for the gas --QUESTION: But that -- that thing in the -- thewater in the aquifer in turn comes largely from theEverglades, does it not?MR. LEHTINEN: Your Honor --QUESTION: It filters down to the aquifer from the Everglades and then seeps through to the other side ofthe levee. I thought it was -- I thought it wasacknowledged on both sides that there's -- that there'stransfer of water from the west to the east below thelevee.MR. LEHTINEN: Yes, Your Honor, from west toeast, but not east to west, and when the water transfersthrough the --QUESTION: Well, but that doesn't -- thatdoesn't go to the point of whether it's the same body ofwater or not. I mean, whether it flows east to west or th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. west to east, the point is it's -- it's the same water.MR. LEHTINEN: Well, Your Honor, the fact thatwaters will flow from the -- in that case, there would beperhaps three bodies of water in the United States: eastof the Appalachian Divide, west of it, and -- and thenseparated by the Continental Divide in the west. The factthat one water will flow eventually into the other doesn'tmake them the same water body. That is to say, Loon Pond,which was a substantially different ecology and waterquality standard and different classification by theState, flowing eventually into the polluted PemigewassettRiver much further downstream, did not make them the samewater body. QUESTION: You say that subsurface flow doesn't count then in this question. MR. LEHTINEN: That's correct. In this casesubsurface flow -- that water is substantially changed inthe aquifer. By the time it's underneath the C-, itdoesn't have the biological or ecosystem characteristicsof the water that is in the Everglades protection area. It's been substantially changed by the -- by the aquifer.QUESTION: But you say this doesn't matteranyway. You wouldn't care if it was the same water body. That isn't -- that isn't what you're arguing.MR. LEHTINEN: We do argue that it is the same th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. water body and you pump it substantially upstream. Youwould also need a permit. QUESTION: Right, right.MR. LEHTINEN: The downstream PemigewassettRiver --QUESTION: If -- if -- do you know any place wecould look for a definition of what is the same waterbody? Is -- is there some -- some -- can I -- you know,I'm not sure.MR. LEHTINEN: Well, there is a -- there is a --QUESTION: We could try Genesis --(Laughter.) QUESTION: -- or then the second --(Laughter.) MR. LEHTINEN: There is -- there is EPAguidance, but the fact that of the act itself mandatesthat States designate different water bodies and thephrase, water bodies, used in the EPA specification ofwhat water quality standards is means that, as a matter offact, it's done all of the time. And in the State ofFlorida, the State legislature has designated theEverglades protection area quite distinct from the canal,a different water quality standard and a -- and adifferent use for that water. And as a hydrologicalmatter, they are -- they are able to -- to deal with that. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. They've given them different water body numbers in theState of Florida. The C- canal is a different waterbody number from the Everglades -- various parts of theEverglades protection area and -- and so forth.The --QUESTION: Could you explain what's at stakehere practically? We're told that there are other meansto deal with this phosphorus problem. If the permit youenvision were required, what would that permit demand?MR. LEHTINEN: This permit would most likelyrequire simply that the plan that the district already has-- has on the books and which they mentioned in theirbrief would be implemented within a reasonable period oftime and under a reasonable compliance schedule. The Everglades restoration project was firstmotivated, as -- as is admitted in all briefs, bylitigation against the district for discharging phosphorusthat caused an imbalance of natural populations of floraand fauna, and furthermore, all of the congressional actsthat deal with the Everglades restoration projects --that's -- and they're referred to in our brief calledWRDA, Water Resources Development Act ' and WaterResources Development Act -- both refer to thepending litigation and make the statement that they don'tintend to interfere with pending litigation. And WRDA th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. specifically says that nothing in these Evergladesrestoration -- this section shall be deemed to eliminateany permitting requirements under law.QUESTION: What is -- what is then the -- thereason for this litigation? I mean, you -- you say you'rejust trying to get them to do what they have already saidthey are doing.MR. LEHTINEN: Yes.QUESTION: You don't believe that they're doingit.MR. LEHTINEN: Well, Your Honor --QUESTION: And you don't believe they're goingto do it, you know, in the foreseeable future.MR. LEHTINEN: We -- we believe, as -- as Congress did, that the Clean Water Act -- that theprograms in place were not always implemented and that theClean Water Act was necessary as a backstop to stop thebacksliding. The Federal Government's litigation in required the State to do no more than the State in pressreleases was saying that it was doing and intended to do,but the litigation, reinforced by Congress thatspecifically said we don't intend to interfere with any ofthat litigation, indicates why Federal enforcement is a --is a useful and necessary tool to ensure that States underdifferent pressures don't backslide. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. Our brief appendix indicates that years agothey indicated they would meet water quality standards inthe S- by , and then with the pendency of thislitigation, they have eliminated any commitment to reachit by , hoping that this litigation will first relievethem of the oversight of the NPDES on S- and then theywill use this litigation to eliminate the NPDES's thatwere required from forward on the other projects. The only thing that keeps those -- those other dischargestructures under the restoration project from not beingextended or otherwise modified by the State are the EPA-placed NPDES permits that already exist on all of thoseEverglades restoration projects. We simply want the samepermitting backstop on the S- structure.With respect to the question of singular waters,the singular waters approach of the United Stateseliminates the different designated uses and the abilityto actually determine the effects of a permit. TheMinnesota amici brief is very useful in this sense becauseit points out that St. Paul now, like the Commonwealth ofPennsylvania and others, does get an NPDES to remove waterfrom the Mississippi to its lake and water reservoir. However, if the Solicitor General's position were correct,St. Paul would no longer need that NPDES permit, and St.Cloud, substantially up-river on the Mississippi, would -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. would be under a -- a review for does its discharges tothe Mississippi, which have been found to meet the NPDESrequirements, not changing the designated use or violatingthe Mississippi's water quality standard -- it -- itsdischarges should be deemed to be somehow removableartificially downstream in the Mississippi so thatanyplace anyone at any time might construct the pipe andmove them into a more pristine water body, you, St. Cloudnow have to anticipate that and will be put under that --that mandate.So the inability of a permit writer to constructa permit because he doesn't know that the evaluationis now to the receiving navigable water, but instead Ihave to evaluate where anyone with a pipe might move it, hundreds and hundreds of miles, without an NPDES permit,that permit writer essentially has to permit only for thehighest designated use and the highest water qualitystandard anywhere in the United States, notwithstandingthat where the discharge -- point source is discharging tois a particular designated use. That would make the acteither impossible to administer or place burdens on thegovernments that the petitioner says should not be placedon the governments. Instead of placing it on thegovernment that for some purpose, some economic purpose,is able to -- to determine the costs and to -- and to th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. clean the water or at least subject itself to review, whenit takes it from a navigable water into a pristinenavigable water, you place the burden instead on anyoneelse who might discharge so -- and -- and whose -- whosedischarge, might, if removed anywhere downstream by anyonefor any reason, might end up causing a violation of awater quality standard.QUESTION: Look -- look, when -- when the Statesrequire permitting, as -- as they're allowed to do, theycan presumably limit the permitting to just the -- thekind of difficult situations you're talking about, when itis into a pristine body of water from a more polluted bodyof water. But if we agree with you on the meaning of theact, permitting will be mandatory not just when -- when there are differences between the pollution levels of thetwo bodies of water, but whenever there is a transfer fromone body of water to another. Even when the two bodies ofwater are equally polluted, you would need a permitbecause you are adding -- you are adding pollutants.MR. LEHTINEN: Well, Your Honor --QUESTION: Now, it may well be you're addingpollutants to a body of water that already contains it,but you will need a -- a permit in every case whenever anyState tries to do flood control projects or any projectthat requires the transfer of water from one body to th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. another.MR. LEHTINEN: Well, in the so-called worstcase, Justice Scalia, they'd be qualifying because theydon't have a -- they're not impairing either water body --qualifying for one general permit issued in the State. But under other circumstances --QUESTION: Excuse me. Can you do that? Can --I mean, can EPA issue a general permit, say anybodythat --MR. LEHTINEN: Yes, Your Honor. General permitsare authorized and they are often written to say under thefollowing conditions, you qualify for the general permit,and -- and --QUESTION: You don't have to get it. You just-- just --MR. LEHTINEN: That's correct, Your Honor. Youdon't have to get it.QUESTION: You just go ahead.MR. LEHTINEN: The general permit might or mightnot say to do certain monitoring to make sure that youstay within the conditions of the general permit. Thosegeneral permits are very common, and even individualpermits are usually system-wide permits. You have structures --QUESTION: You say a general permit. You mean th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. that applies to a number of different people? MR. LEHTINEN: Yes, Your Honor. A generalpermit can be statewide. The permit looks almost like arule, but the permit says -- and in the case of the Corps,they do nationwide permits, but is not at issue here. The general permit statewide could say that under thefollowing circumstances, when you are an unimpaired waterbody discharging to an unimpaired water body ordischarging at levels that have pollutants but don'timpair the receiving water body, you automatically qualifyfor this permit. Do some monitoring. Let us know everyyear. That general permit is -- is frequently used and --and is very close to rulemaking.But it's also possible, under those circumstances -- and this is not our case. Our casedischarges at almost four times the water qualitystandard, parts per billion, for the receiving waterbody. It clearly impairs the receiving water body. Butif the standard for a water body were of a substance,its actual receiving level was and you discharged at ,not to get too complex, but you're discharging at a lowerlevel than the receiving water body and the water bodiesare not impaired, it's possible mathematically, but notour case here -- these hypotheticals should be left toanother time. It's possible that the gallon in the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. receiving water body that had , with gallon added toit that had , the gallons now have , or in fact,-and-a-half per receiving unit. That may be determinedby rule or other appropriate analysis in the westerncases, if they ever come up, to not be an addition. Butthat's not our case here. The Court, in an abundance of caution, couldpoint out that our case here is an artificial canal thatreceives substantial surface water runoff, itself probablya conveyance under the Clean Water Act definition ofchannels or discrete conveyances, that it discharges atlevels up to four times the receiving water body's waterquality standard, that it is itself an impaired waterbody. So that the hypothetical situations or application to western States or elsewhere is -- are not beingaddressed by the Court.Now -- now, the -- the amici from the Tongue andYellowstone River Irrigation District point out actuallythat in the west, they believe that ranchers and farmerswill suffer from the Federal Government's unitary watertheory because they will now be subject to water that isnot of sufficient quality for their irrigation districtand so forth. It's not simply a west -- and the State ofWashington also joined in our brief. We, of course -- we th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. don't count States, but more States support the tribe intheir briefs saying this is essential than do support the-- the district and the United States. The -- it's particularly important to recognizethe C- was itself dug, is not a residual part of theEverglades, and that it's -- the C- basin is not simplya -- a water body divided from the WCA or the Evergladesprotection area by a levee. Looking at pages a and a ofour brief, which are the appendix to our brief, are fromthe district's own web site, which it cited in its brief,and it shows the urban construction right to the boundary. So it's not that the C- basin is water just divided. It's an artificial canal. It's no -- no more part of theEverglades protection area than Fenway Park in Boston is part of the Charles River because it's built on thelandfill where the Charles River once was. They're quitedistinct.With respect to federalism issues, the CleanWater Act itself is a federalism instrument because itprovides for the States to do the designation of uses. Itprovides for the States to -- to create the water qualitystandards, and it does protect the ability of the Statesto allocate quantities of water, but this is not aquantity allocation.The record shows clearly that the S- pump is th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. turned on when you get to foot of -- turned off when --when the C- basin is at foot and turned on when it'sat foot. It is strictly a drainage mechanism to takesurface water runoff and other water out of the C-. They're disposing of water. They don't want the water. They're dumping the water wherever they can put it.And actually the water is not our concern. Itis the pollutants. Whenever they say merely conveyingwater, we would say conveyance is defined as a pointsource and they convey pollutants. If they didn't conveythis massive amount of pollutants, we would not be beforeYour Honors.The district, by pumping pollutants contained inthe water against the natural flow of that water into the specially designated Everglades protection area, addedthat water to the Everglades protection area within theplain meaning of -- of the Clean Water Act and within thecommon usage of -- of language. The district put thosepollutants in the Everglades and nobody but the districtput those pollutants in the Everglades.An effort to reconstruct the term, addition tonavigable waters, to allow them to dispose of thosepollutants anywhere in the United States with a navigablewater of any designated use or of any water qualitystandard would decimate the Clean Water Act's protection th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. not only of the Everglades, but of the case law that --that Your Honors have had cited in the brief. Now, the circuit court cases are notparticularly precedent for your Court, but it does pointout that Loon Pond would have had water that peeled paintoff of the adjoining buildings put into it and not justthrough snow-making devices. The -- the court clearlyindicated that sometimes the Pemigewassett water was putdirectly to Loon Pond to -- to increase the amount ofwater in Loon Pond. Now, the -- the United States would try to saveits singular water theory in some cases by saying, well,water might be removed. They said on the Dubois case, theFirst Circuit Loon Pond, that it was removed for snow-making, but I point out that the court said in severalplaces that it also went directly, never through snow-making devices. They would say that when you put it throughtunnels or so forth, perhaps it loses its navigable watercharacter. The State of New York, of course, is stronglyin favor of the tribe because the -mile Shandaken Tunnelto them needs --CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: Thank you, Mr.Lehtinen.Mr. Bishop, you have only seconds left, so th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. we'll consider the case submitted. (Whereupon, at : p.m., the case in theabove-entitled matter was submitted.) th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. 