 IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XALASKA DEPARTMENT OF :ENVIRONMENTAL CONSERVATION, :Petitioner :v. : No. -ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY, ET AL. ::- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XWashington, D.C.Wednesday, October , The above-entitled matter came on for oralargument before the Supreme Court of the United States at: a.m.APPEARANCES:JONATHAN S. FRANKLIN, ESQ., Washington, D.C., on behalf ofthe Petitioner.THOMAS G. HUNGAR, ESQ., Deputy Solicitor General,Department of Justice, Washington, D.C., on behalf ofthe Respondents. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY C O N T E N T SORAL ARGUMENT OF JONATHAN S. FRANKLIN, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioner THOMAS G. HUNGAR, ESQ.On behalf of the Respondents REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OFJONATHAN S. FRANKLIN, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioner PAGE th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY P R O C E E D I N G S(: a.m.)CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: We'll hear argumentnow in No. -, Alaska Department of EnvironmentalConservation v. the Environmental Protection Agency.Mr. Franklin.ORAL ARGUMENT OF JONATHAN S. FRANKLINON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERMR. FRANKLIN: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court:The question in this case is whether the FederalEnvironmental Protection Agency has the legal authority tooverride by fiat a discretionary determination thatCongress expressly directed be made instead by the State of Alaska, which Congress trusted to exercise its ownindependent judgment according to local priorities andlocal conditions. We submit that the answer to thatquestion is no. When Congress wanted to give EPA the authorityto -- under the Clean Air Act to review and approve thesubstance of individual State determinations of the bestavailable control technology, or BACT, Congress said soexpressly. It gave EPA no such role in the circumstancesof this case.QUESTION: Well, do you think that the statute th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY allows EPA to at least say, Alaska, you didn't go throughthe proper analysis here, you didn't consider, ascontemplated by the statute, some of the costs andconcerns that would enable a State to say, fine, you goahead with less than the ultimate equipment? Now, canEPA, under the statute, say, Alaska, you just didn'tfollow the required procedures? MR. FRANKLIN: EPA can say, yes, Alaska, you didnot consider the statutory factors, but that is not thecontention that's being made in this case, Your Honor. QUESTION: Well, isn't that an element here infact? Wasn't that part of EPA's concern? Is it true thatthe owner of the mine wouldn't even furnish certainfinancial information to enable the State to make thatanalysis? MR. FRANKLIN: Two points, Your Honor. Thecontention that's being made here is not that Alaskafailed to consider the factors that Congress set forth. The contention is that they didn't do it in the way that-- that EPA might have done it if EPA were the permittingauthority with regard --QUESTION: Well, that's a -- that's a prettyfine line. I mean, I'm -- I'm really surprised by -- byyour concession. I -- I would have thought a much morerational interpretation of the statute is that, yes, the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY State has certain obligations under the statute toconsider the factors, but if they were not considered, theperson who would bring them to account for not consideringthem is initially the State courts and then, oncertiorari, to this Court. I thought your position wasthat this is none of EPA's business --MR. FRANKLIN: It is our --QUESTION: -- that this -- that thisdiscretionary determination is given to the States, andwhen the States are reviewed, they should be reviewed incourt.Honor. MR. FRANKLIN: That is our -- our position, YourQUESTION: Well, why isn't it for -- for the --for the hypothetical that Justice O'Connor gives as wellas for everything else?MR. FRANKLIN: I think that the -- the line iswhether the requirements of the statute were followed ornot. In this case, Alaska has done precisely that whichit --QUESTION: Well, assuming they weren't followed,is your position that when they are not followed, EPA cancall them to account? MR. FRANKLIN: EPA has the authority to enforcethe requirements and prohibitions of the act, but we th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY believe that authority should be narrowly circumscribed tothe bounds that Congress set for the EPA. QUESTION: Well, let -- let me intervene and --and suggest this. Could you have answered JusticeO'Connor's question this way? Oh, yes, the EPA can -- cancomplain and make its case that the State did not exerciseits discretion the right way, but it can't do so by justissuing an order. It has to go through the judicialreview process. Would -- would that -- would that answeryour case or --MR. FRANKLIN: Yes.QUESTION: -- or am I misstating the theoryhere?MR. FRANKLIN: No, you're not, Your Honor. The-- the question in this case is not whether the claimsthat EPA raises here will be subject to review. Thequestion is how, when, and in what manner, and --QUESTION: Okay. Now, could -- could the EPAhave gone to Federal court and say, oh, well, thisdiscretion was exercised in good faith and so forth, butit was -- it was wrong? It didn't comply with thestatute. Could it go to Federal court?MR. FRANKLIN: if it's contention is it didn'tcomply with the express terms of the statute --QUESTION: In -- in this case -- in this case -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY MR. FRANKLIN: In this case, no.QUESTION: -- as Justice O'Connor said, itdidn't give -- oh, it cannot go to Federal court? MR. FRANKLIN: Not in this case, Your Honor. Itcould under the State review procedure, and I thinkthere's an open question as to whether --QUESTION: Well, why couldn't it? Why couldn'tit? They simply proceed under U.S.C. .MR. FRANKLIN: Exactly.QUESTION: Now, what they do is they say, we'renow in Federal court. There's a State law here. TheState law happens to say that you cannot be arbitrary.MR. FRANKLIN: Correct.QUESTION: And so now they say, we're making the same claim identically. They were arbitrary, capricious,abuse of discretion. But it's under State law. And now,my goodness, what is this case about? MR. FRANKLIN: Exactly.QUESTION: You say that they should have goneinto the Ninth Circuit under arguing it wasarbitrary, capricious under State law, and they say thatthey should be in the Ninth Circuit arguing that it'sarbitrary and capricious under Federal law, where I'venever heard that there's any difference between arbitraryand capricious under State law or under Federal law. It's th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY just whether it's arbitrary and capricious.MR. FRANKLIN: There are two importantdifferences, Your Honor, and -- and I think they wouldhave -- is the statute I was just about to cite, andI think they would have the authority to go into Federalcourt under State law. Two important distinctions.First, Your Honor, the -- the -- going throughthe State process would require that they go through, inaddition to the State judicial review process, the Stateadministrative review process. In Alaska, that would haveallowed Alaska's Department of Environmental Conservationa de novo administrative hearing at which they could havepresented a full administrative record, additionalwitnesses, and they would have had the opportunity to further clarify and defend their decision. The second point, Your Honor, is that under thefiat that they have exercised here by order, it does notaccord Alaska's determination the kind of deference thatit would have received under the State process.The point that we're making, Your Honor, is thatthe State review process is adequate to address all theconcerns --QUESTION: They do go into Federal court, and Ido see your point.What I am curious about is I think there are th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY like maybe a handful of administrative law experts whomight have thought there was really some kind ofdifference between whether you're in Federal court underthe State words or in Federal court under the Federalwords when the words are identical. And there may besomebody who thinks there's a difference between what youtold Justice O'Connor and what you've told Justice Scalia,but I'm not one of them. I don't understand how youreconcile those things. So if we assume Congress is not an expert, whywouldn't they have just meant by this, well, EPA, you stayout of it unless you think what they're doing isunreasonable? If what you think they're doing isunreasonable, you have the authority to come in and go to Federal court if you want. That would be simple.Everybody would understand it. MR. FRANKLIN: If Congress had made that clearin the statute, Your Honor, we would not be here. Thereason that Congress did not is that when Congress wantedto give EPA the authority to review and approve thesubstance of individual State BACT determinations, it saidso expressly in section --QUESTION: Mr. Franklin --MR. FRANKLIN: Yes.QUESTION: -- perhaps I misunderstood your th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY brief, but I thought that you were making the distinctionin your brief between the substance of a decision and theprocedural motions. I thought you conceded that if theAlaska agency simply said, well, the company wants LowNOx, so they're going to get it, and we're not going to gothrough any feasibility analysis. I thought your briefconceded that if that were the case, there would be accessto the Federal court on the part of EPA. MR. FRANKLIN: Yes, Your Honor, but that is notwhat we are here about today. What we are here abouttoday is EPA --QUESTION: Well, why isn't it, going back toJustice O'Connor's question, when the EPA is saying, inessence, you didn't really go through the feasibility analysis because you didn't even ask for the relevantinformation? MR. FRANKLIN: To get back to that, Your Honor,the -- what EPA is saying is that we did go through thefactors, but we didn't weigh them the way EPA would.And with respect to the economic considerations,Your Honor, Alaska has followed EPA's own guidance on thiswhich says quite clearly that the individual circumstancesand finances of a permit -- an applicant are not to beconsidered in the analysis. So it was not relevantwhether the technology would have bankrupted this company th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY or not. What Alaska found to be relevant and what it wasits statutory prerogative to find relevant and as a matterof its own local priorities was a comparison of the costsbetween this applicant and other similarly situatedapplicants in recent decisions.QUESTION: So you want --QUESTION: Mr. Franklin, it's not just aquestion of coming into Federal court. MR. FRANKLIN: No.QUESTION: It's not just a question of theagency coming into Federal court the way a private citizenwould and challenging the State action. It's a matter ofthe agency issuing an order --MR. FRANKLIN: Exactly.QUESTION: -- which order is presumptively validand which would have to be deferred to by the Federalcourt presumably unless the order was arbitrary orcapricious.MR. FRANKLIN: And that is what I was --QUESTION: So you'd be deciding in Federal courtwhether it was arbitrary or capricious for EPA to find theState to have been arbitrary or capricious, a very -- avery refined determination, to put it mildly.MR. FRANKLIN: Yes, Your Honor, and that is --QUESTION: But isn't that the problem? It isn't th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY just a matter of getting into Federal court. It's amatter of how you get into Federal court. MR. FRANKLIN: Exactly. As I was saying before,it's not a question of -- of whether these things will bereviewed but how, and more specifically, whether theseissues which are --QUESTION: But it is. There's a differencebecause you're -- you said that the review -- thereviewing authority would be the State court. So youaren't talking about whether there would be Federal courtreview, and I think in response to Justice Scalia, now youare saying that the route is the State court. You'reagreeing with him when he said the route is the Statecourt and this Court on cert. Do you see any role for the Federal courts? MR. FRANKLIN: Well, as Justice Breyer pointedout, it's an open question. We believe that the Federalcourts -- if EPA were instituting this, the State reviewprocedure, under section -- U.S.C., section , theremay be Federal jurisdiction because that confers originalFederal jurisdiction on any action brought by a Federalagency. But that's a narrow, limited scope.QUESTION: Well, but the action has to properlylie in order for it to be successful, and when you have --on what basis would the agency be suing? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY MR. FRANKLIN: They would be suing under theState review procedure, Your Honor. It would be theiroption we think, and it's an open question. It's not onethat I think this Court --QUESTION: I don't think they could do it.Suppose that the -- a State agency decides thebest available control technology is a ceiling fan thatthey brought up to New Orleans -- from New Orleans. Theybought it and brought it up to Alaska. Now, EPA looks atthat and says, no, no, this is going too far. Now, whatin your opinion is supposed to happen?MR. FRANKLIN: Well, in -- in our opinion inthat situation, Your Honor, it would be subject to theAPA-type review and it would be struck down. Again, thequestion is not whether that kind of review of --QUESTION: What's the role of the Federal court?MR. FRANKLIN: Well, if EPA is the one bringingthe action, I -- I would accept Your Honor's premise thatonce it has proceeded through the comment process, once ithas proceeded through the administrative review process --and frankly, we think that that particular matter wouldend there. No State would do that because the States taketheir responsibilities seriously to implement thesestatutes. If, however, there were any question that th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY remained at the end of that process, which EPAcircumvented in this case by fiat, then and only in thatevent would EPA be able to seek judicial review, but itwould be an APA case. It would not be --QUESTION: Well, I don't -- I don't understandanyway because the statute that we're looking at, section(a)() says that if EPA finds a State is not acting incompliance with any requirement or prohibition of the PSDprogram --MR. FRANKLIN: Yes. QUESTION: -- EPA can stop construction andissue orders. It can also bring a civil suit forinjunctive or monetary relief. Suppose it just puts out an order and says, look, Alaska, you did not determine what costs would meanto the mine in terms of profitability, employment, orglobal competitiveness, and therefore you didn't meet therequirements of the PSD statute, and you stop anyconstruction now on the mine expansion. That would putthe onus on the mine owner or the State to go to courtsomewhere, wouldn't it? MR. FRANKLIN: It would and -- and that'sprecisely the reversal of the kind of presumption ofregularity that the States are entitled to in these kindsof cases. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY QUESTION: Mr. Franklin --QUESTION: So under -- or what is it --(a)()(C), which is a of your brief toward thebottom, you say that in this case the agency cannot invokethat section to issue an order or to go to court.MR. FRANKLIN: That is correct, Your Honor. QUESTION: All right. You have to say that tobe consistent.MR. FRANKLIN: Yes. QUESTION: Now, if you want us to write theopinion your way, you would say under -- (a)(),the State -- the EPA cannot issue an order barringconstruction unless. Now you fill in the blank.MR. FRANKLIN: Unless a State has -- if therewas a demonstrated violation of an express statutoryrequirement. For example, a State has not --QUESTION: Well --MR. FRANKLIN: -- issued a permit to begin withor a State has not put a BACT limitation into a permit. Those are the kind --QUESTION: Unless there's a violation of anexpress statutory requirement, but the Government is goingto come up and say, there was a -- there was a violationof the statute defining BACT.MR. FRANKLIN: But in this case, Your Honor, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY that is not with respect to -- to the EPA, that's not whatthey're saying. They're saying that we did go through thevarious factors that the BACT statute requires us to gothrough. In their opinion we didn't weigh them the properway and under the proper policies. We, in fact, disagreestrongly with that, but that is a contention that israised every day of the week under administrativeprocedure law. It's not a contention that the expressrequirements of the statute --QUESTION: What your formulation is, is thatthey did not follow a requirement of the statute. And Ijust don't see how that gets you there.QUESTION: You're making a distinction betweenthe express requirements of the statute and the obviously implicit requirements of the statute? Certainly it -- itis implicit in the statute that the State's decision mustbe made rationally and not arbitrarily. Don't you thinkthat that's a requirement of law?MR. FRANKLIN: It is certainly a requirement oflaw, Your Honor, but it is a background principle thatderives ultimately, we think, from the Due Process Clausenot a unstated requirement of the Clean Air Act.And the important thing is what did Congressintend for EPA to be able to --QUESTION: I mean, that isn't going to get -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY the reason I think we're -- I'm having the same troubleJustice Scalia is because the kind of -- in my mindanyway, I tend to think of a classical definition ofarbitrary and capricious as sometimes involving theydidn't follow what the statute told them to do. Sometimesthey did what the statute told them not to do. Sometimesthey didn't get the weight right. And I put all thosethings -- and I think a lot of people do -- in the samebox called arbitrary and unreasonable, capricious, and youtry to draw some kind of line between those things. Idon't know how to do it, and I don't think many judgeswould.MR. FRANKLIN: Well, I think that judges would,Your Honor. It doesn't usually come up because a court, reviewing such a procedure, could -- could find the -- theorder invalid under either basis, either it didn't complywith the statute or it didn't comply with the APA. Here, though, Congress specificallycircumscribed the EPA's authority and it did so for a goodreason. QUESTION: Where is --QUESTION: But the language of (a)() doesn'treally seem to be limiting -- I'm over here. (Laughter.) MR. FRANKLIN: Yes, Your Honor. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY QUESTION: It doesn't seem to be limiting theauthority of EPA. And I'm just wondering just -- I'm notsure I totally follow the argument, but I'm just lookingat the -- that statutory provision. And are you sayingthat statutory provision does not apply even if the Stateacted arbitrarily and capriciously?MR. FRANKLIN: The statute governs how theagency's -- gives the agency the discretion. How the --the agency exercises that discretion is a separatequestion and one that is traditionally reviewed on a fulladministrative record by a court, not by EPA acting on itsown fiat.QUESTION: Well, but this -- that provisiongives the -- the EPA the authority to issue certain orders.MR. FRANKLIN: Yes.QUESTION: And is it your position that they didnot have the authority to issue the order here or that theorder was wrong?MR. FRANKLIN: Our -- that they did not have theauthority because there was not a -- a violation of therequirements of the act, which is the only basis --QUESTION: Even if there were a violation of therequirements of the act, would you say they -- if -- ifthere were a violation of the act, would they have the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY authority to issue it -- issue that order?MR. FRANKLIN: If there -- if there were aviolation of the express requirements of the act, then --then that's what the statute says. But it has to be readin context. It has to be read in context. Particularlywhen Congress wanted to give EPA the authority to reviewand approve the substance of these determinations, it saidso expressly in one narrow instance that is not applicablehere. When a State has --QUESTION: That's in advance of the permit. Thefact that -- that Congress specified that for certainpollutions, you must, before you give any permit, go tothe EPA doesn't exclude that you could have the reviewafter. But I would -- after the permit issues. But I would like to ask you. You seem to besaying, well, this is just a determination. They appliedthe statutory factors. EPA didn't like the way they didit. There seems to be lurking in this a -- a differenceon what the statute means to this extent. EPA seems to be taking a single source approach. That is, you want a new generator? That generator has tohave BACT for that generator. Never mind if you tell usvoluntarily you're going to put Low NOx on all of them andthe result would be lowering the emissions. In otherwords, EPA seems to be taking a no-bubble approach to th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY this. You go at it machine by machine --MR. FRANKLIN: Right. QUESTION: -- generator by generator, whereyou're taking the position or Alaska is taking theposition that if you can reduce overall emissions byputting the Low NOx on all six generators and in the endhave cleaner air, well, then do that and forget about theSCR on one machine. That seems to be a substantivedifference about whether BACT applies to the whole setupor machine -- generator by generator.MR. FRANKLIN: Yes, it is, and we believe thatEPA is -- is wrong on that. But they're wrong as a matterof policy, Your Honor. The BACT statute gives the Statesthe discretion to weigh, among other factors, environmental factors. We think that is clearly broadenough for the State to take into consideration theoverall environmental effect that this --QUESTION: But that's -- it's either that you goat it machine -- source by source, new source by newsource, modification by modification, or you can have thebubble concept. In Chevron, EPA was -- was espousing thebubble concept and the Court -- this Court said, EPA,that's a reasonable construction of the statute.Now EPA seems to be saying as to this programthere is no bubble. You have to look at that machine, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY that generator in isolation. MR. FRANKLIN: Right.QUESTION: And that seems to be a basicdifference on what the statute means, not on -- mix it allup and is it arbitrary and capricious.MR. FRANKLIN: We think that it's -- in fact,there is a difference on -- on how it's to be implemented. Congress was very clear here. They understood that Stateswould have different policies, that one State could choosethe approach that EPA might choose, which says we are notgoing to consider the environmental -- overallenvironmental impact here. Another State might view itdifferently, but that's what Congress wanted to havehappen. When EPA issued its orders in this case --QUESTION: But on the facts here I thought --now, tell me if I'm right about this. When I startedreading it, I was quite sympathetic to your view that itmakes no sense to have more emissions coming out as aresult of trying to control this one generator. Their jobis to get fewer emissions not more. But then when I readinto the record a little bit, it seemed to me that thefacts are that by the time this generator came up, itwas perfectly apparent that the company had to put the --whatever, some low technology, NOx technology or somethingon four of the other generators anyway. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY So that the bottom line is that this bubble hasnothing to do with this case because we're talking aboutone generator coming in in circumstances where the othergenerators have to be controlled regardless. Am I right?MR. FRANKLIN: You're almost right, Your Honor,but the -- the difference is that there -- there were fourother generators that were subject to the cap, but therewere six other generators total.QUESTION: I know, but then we -- I had my lawclerk go through and do the extra emissions from thoseother two, and it didn't really make any difference. MR. FRANKLIN: It did -- it does make adifference, Your Honor. QUESTION: It does?MR. FRANKLIN: Because of the assumption thatAlaska made, and that is that if you used SCR on MG- --and this has never been challenged -- that -- that MG-would be the backup generator. It would not be used.Therefore, any emissions savings that you can get offthose other two engines, and , no matter how small theymight be -- and I think that they probably come in theneighborhood of tons or so. Any emissions savingsthat you can get off and add to the bottom linebecause the assumption that the State has made, which is a-- a reasonable and in my view correct assumption, is that th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY MG- is not going to be used if it's SCR because SCR hasenormous operating costs associated with it.Again, these were the -- the policydeterminations --QUESTION: If I go --QUESTION: I still don't -- I don't -- I don'tsee where Justice Breyer's question fits with -- with theissue, does the statute dictate BACT on an individualgenerator? Never mind the rest. In other words, does theact say, no bubble, and that's how EPA seems to be readingthe act, that it's not a matter of discretion, that thiscalls for a new source, modified source, and you just lookat that new source and you don't look at the oldgenerators at all.MR. FRANKLIN: You look at the new source, YourHonor, but you're allowed to consider environmental impactin looking at it. And there EPA is wrong, if that's theircontention. Their -- for example, they -- they do notrequire States, nor could they, to use their top-downmethodology. EPA understands -- and that is the nub ofthis case -- that the BACT determination is not supposedto be a uniform Federal standard.QUESTION: What -- what other method is therebesides the top-down? I know both briefs have said it's-- it's the way it was done here. That's what EPA th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY recommends, but it isn't inevitable. What else would theyuse other than top-down?MR. FRANKLIN: It could -- it could be bottom-up, Your Honor. They could look at each technology andeliminate the ones going up. There's a number ofdifferent ways that a State could do it.The point that's being made here, when EPAissued --QUESTION: Is that in fact the situation, thatthere are other ways, or is it just in theory, but theyall use top-down?MR. FRANKLIN: Your Honor, I don't know whatevery State uses, but I do know that Congress made clear-- and the legislative history at page of the Senate report is crystal clear on this point -- that each Statewas to have the discretion to weigh the factors in its ownjudgment. And -- and Congress made clear that a State --it would be permissible for a State to consider suchthings as anticipated and desired economic development, aswell as the amount of the available increment that theState wished a particular source to consume. When --QUESTION: Mr. -- Mr. Franklin, the -- thedifficulty that I'm having with -- with your argumentabout the meaning of the statute goes back to your answerI think to Justice Kennedy's question awhile ago. He th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY asked you, in effect, what's the role of the statute onyour theory, and -- and you said, well, if they -- if theysimply ignore one of the stated statutory factors, theysay we're not going to consider this, or if there's atechnical defect in the order, if the order is incomplete,that would be a -- a circumstance in which EPA couldexercise this authority. But you also said -- and I -- I assume you saidcorrectly -- that later on that these kinds of obviousviolations are going to be rare.MR. FRANKLIN: Yes. QUESTION: And that leads me back to -- as Isaid, I guess, to Justice Kennedy's question, and that isthis. It seems to me that on your view of the -- the two statutory sections, there really isn't very much role forthem to play, and I can't imagine why Congress would haveenacted separate order sections if all they were meant todo is what you say.So my question is, why -- why doesn't yourexplanation trivialize these two statutes to a point thatis implausible?MR. FRANKLIN: They don't trivialize it, YourHonor. There are numerous Federal requirements that if aState does not meet those express statutory requirements,then EPA can step in. There are ambient air quality th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY standards --QUESTION: And -- and EPA could do the samething by following the State review process, couldn't it?MR. FRANKLIN: It --QUESTION: It could go in and say, look, theyforgot X. They refused to apply Y.MR. FRANKLIN: But if its contention is one thatthe statute gives the discretion but it was simply notexercised in the proper way that we would have exercisedit, that is not a contention that Congress wanted EPA tobe able to resolve by fiat.QUESTION: Well, but I mean, that's -- that'sthe question. I mean, the -- the difficulty I'm having isthat if -- if it is unlikely that Congress would have provided this entire separate track simply to deal withthe problems that you say the track is meant to deal with,then it is not so implausible at all that Congress wouldhave intended the statute to be applied as it has beenapplied here.MR. FRANKLIN: I think it is implausible becauseCongress made clear that EPA's authority was circumscribedto enforcing the -- the statutory requirements, and thoserequirements were met in this case.If I might reserve the balance of my time.QUESTION: Very well, Mr. Franklin. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY Mr. Hungar, we'll hear from you.ORAL ARGUMENT OF THOMAS G. HUNGARON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTSMR. HUNGAR: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court:Petitioner's fundamental contention is that oncea State issues a determination of best available controltechnology so labeled, no matter how arbitrary, factuallyunsupported, or unreasoned it may be, the FederalGovernment has no enforcement authority under the act totake actions to stop the invalid permit from takingeffect. Nothing in the text, structure, or history of theact supports the implausible contention that Congressintended to immunize arbitrary, unreasoned State decision making from Federal enforcement review.QUESTION: Well, I don't think he is -- I mean,my impression of their argument was, yes, you can reviewthat. What you have go is through the State procedure andthen after you go through the State procedures, in fact,you can go into a Federal court and have them apply theState review procedure if you want.MR. HUNGAR: Yes, but --QUESTION: I think that's what their argumentwas, or at least one of their arguments.MR. HUNGAR: But, Your Honor, Congress enacted a th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY Federal regulatory scheme and a Federal enforcementscheme.QUESTION: That's a different thing. Maybeyours is better, but you can't say they're leaving itwithout review. So I just wanted to --MR. HUNGAR: Review only under State law, YourHonor, and -- and our point is that Congress has enacted acomprehensive Federal regulatory scheme and authorized EPAto serve as a backstop to ensure compliance with all ofthe requirements of the act, or this -- this portion ofthe act. QUESTION: That's begging -- I mean, that --that is exactly the point at issue, it seems to me. Whyis -- why is it irrational to envision a scheme such as --such as the petitioners here propose, which is, look it,Congress set certain, absolute requirements? Ambient airquality, you know, shall be this. But as long as thoserequirements are met, below that we also want each State-- each emission source in a State to be examined to seewhether it is using the best available technology.But what constitutes the best availabletechnology under the circumstances is a very difficultquestion. It involves issues of -- of the State economy,as well as scientific issues. We are content so long aseach State meets the absolute standards that the statute th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY sets forth. Below that standard, we're going to let eachState decide whether the best available technology underall the circumstances is being used. That seems to me aperfectly sensible and rational system. MR. HUNGAR: Your Honor, the definition of bestavailable control technology does not simply leave it tothe discretion of the decision maker, the unbridleddiscretion, to -- to select whatever it wants --QUESTION: Well, let's see what it says.MR. HUNGAR: It imposes meaningful constraints,Your Honor. Maximum emissions reduction that isachievable taking into account specified factors. Afailure, for example --QUESTION: But you're -- you're missing the --the first part of it. It doesn't say which is the bestavailable. It says the best of means and emissionlimitation, best on the maximum degree of production ofeach pollutant subject to regulation under this chapter,blah, blah, blah, blah, which the permitting authority ona case-by-case basis, taking into account these variousmethods, determines to be the BACT. I mean, there it is. Which the permitting authority determines.MR. HUNGAR: Yes, Your Honor. Two responses. Number one, the -- the United States Code isfilled with examples of instances in which Congress th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY defines that it's the initial decision maker for aparticular question, but that is not generally taken tomean that delegation of absolute, unreviewable discretion. Number two -- particularly when, as here, the statuteimposes --QUESTION: But they're -- they're not saying --MR. HUNGAR: -- these constraints on thedecision maker.QUESTION: They're not saying that thediscretion is unreviewable. They're just saying it'sreviewable in a different manner than you think it is.MR. HUNGAR: They're saying that it's notreviewable as a matter of Federal law, Your Honor, andthat is what we're talking about here.QUESTION: Well, Federal -- are you aware of anyState in the United States that does not have in its lawthe requirement that its own agencies have to actrationally, that they can't act arbitrarily, abuse ofdiscretion? MR. HUNGAR: I don't know, Your Honor, but --QUESTION: Well, I don't know of any either.MR. HUNGAR: But I know there are --QUESTION: And so that seems to be the samestandard that you argue that applies, and since there isno State that doesn't have that standard and no Federal th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY Government that doesn't have it, we all have the samestandard. And that's why I think the argument does boildown to which courts will apply it: the Federal court asa matter of Federal law, or the Federal court as a matterof State law.MR. HUNGAR: Well, number one, I believe variousStates have standing requirements that may be morerestrictive than those applicable under -- under Federallaw.Number two, the question is not merely whichcourt will apply it but whether the -- the comprehensiveadministrative authority confirmed on EPA to issue ordersand not just the administrative orders at issue here, butalso the possibility of the -- of the administrative sanctions proceeding, which is separately provided byCongress in subsection (d) of . Under petitioner'sinterpretation, none of that would apply as long asthere's some element of discretion in the State'sdecision. And it's simply not correct to say that BACT isthe only area in which the States enjoy some range ofjudgment or -- or in which there may be factualdisputes --QUESTION: It's some range of judgment. This isthe only provision that reads this categorically. I -- I-- which the permitting authority on a case-by-case basis th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY determines.MR. HUNGAR: With respect, Your Honor, that'snot correct. Under -- under (a)(), which is the--the subparagraph prior to (a)() which imposes the BACTrequirement -- (a)() is on -- I believe it's on aof the appendix to the gray brief. (a)() is -- is wherethe -- is where the requirement that permittees meet otherprovisions of the act such as the national ambient airquality standards and the increments.QUESTION: Tell me again where -- where --MR. HUNGAR: (a)() on -- on a of the graybrief appendix.QUESTION: On a.MR. HUNGAR: Yes.QUESTION: (). Right?MR. HUNGAR: () is the BACT requirement. ()is the national ambient air quality standards, otherstandards of performance, the increments, and so forth.All of the other requirements that -- that petitionerconcedes EPA should be able to enforce.But if you turn -- and that (a)(), in turn,references --QUESTION: (j).MR. HUNGAR: (j). (j), which is on page aof the appendix, says that the permittee must -- the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY permit applicant must demonstrate to the satisfaction ofthe permitting agency that all of these requirements havebeen met.So under petitioner's interpretation, EPA'sauthority to enforce all of -- all of the requirements ofthe prevention of significant deterioration program wouldbe eviscerated to the extent there is discretion in thosedeterminations and there is necessarily discretion. Allof those other determinations require modeling, and to domodeling, you have to determine what the inputs to themodel are and you have to determine what the boundaries ofthe ambient air area are, and if EPA cannot review any ofthose discretionary decisions, it has essentially noauthority to do anything under this act except to require that permitting authorities mouth the words of thestatutory definition. And that's it. And if that'sall --QUESTION: Well, could -- could we get specificin this case? Looking at the Clean Air Act provision,(), which the permitting authority on a case-by-casebasis determines is achievable, after considering economicimpacts and other costs. Now, EPA says what's wrong. Alaska did make a determination, did it not?MR. HUNGAR: Alaska made a determination, but itdid not determine best available control technology within th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY the constraints of the statute, and the -- and theeasiest --QUESTION: Well, how so? Let -- looking at thestatute, what provision did they fail to comply with?MR. HUNGAR: Well, they -- they didn't determinethe maximum degree that is achievable, taking into accountthese factors, because the only basis for their rejectionof the best technology selective control -- I mean,selective catalytic reduction was their reliance oneconomic impacts, and specifically what they said was theforemost consideration -- the foremost consideration --for their rejection of SCR, according to the State -- thisis at page of the joint appendix -- was impact of thecost of SCR on the competitiveness of the mine. Andyet --that?QUESTION: What's wrong -- what's wrong withQUESTION: And --MR. HUNGAR: What's wrong with that, Your Honor,is that on the previous page, on page of the jointappendix, the State admits that because Cominco refused toprovide the financial information, they had no basis formaking a judgment. That's a -- they quote judgment.QUESTION: Well, let me just ask you --MR. HUNGAR: They couldn't make a judgment about th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY that very issue. QUESTION: -- a technical point. Suppose at theend of the day -- and I'm not sure this is what we woulddo or that I would favor, but suppose at the end of theday we agree EPA had authority to issue a stop order andthat it was proper. Could Alaska then go back and say,well, okay, we're going to run through this drill oncemore and do consideration of costs, and they're now goingto allow Low NOx's instead based on that? Now, can theydo that? Is that all right?MR. HUNGAR: On -- on an appropriate record,absolutely they could do that. And -- and EPA made itclear --day.QUESTION: So this wouldn't be the end of theMR. HUNGAR: That's correct. The State has the-- has discretion, but that discretion is not unlimited,and that is the point that --QUESTION: Can you tell me, Mr. Hungar --QUESTION: Speaking of it's appropriate --QUESTION: Can you tell me, Mr. Hungar, whetheror not as -- as a matter of past practice, the EPA hasintervened in any State administrative review proceedingsin State courts?MR. HUNGAR: In State court, no, I don't believe th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY so, Your Honor. QUESTION: All right. Has -- has it gone toFederal court under -- was it -- , the United StatesDistrict? MR. HUNGAR: I don't believe so. It's anunsettled question I think whether would authorizeEPA to --QUESTION: So the EPA has been consistent insaying that it -- it is not in any case like this or withparallels to this gone through an administrative reviewprocess. It's simply issued a stop order?MR. HUNGAR: That's correct. The EPA hasconsistently maintained and -- and has -- has announcedthis interpretation in a variety of administrative documents, including through notice -- in the course ofnotice and comment rulemakings and in the very orders inthis case. EPA has consistently taken the position for years, at least, that it has authority under thesestatutes, and (a)() to do exactly what it did inthis case --QUESTION: That doesn't surprise me. You -- youmention on an appropriate record. That is one of thethings that makes me uneasy about the -- the resolutionthat you propose.When this thing comes to a Federal court of th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY appeals, which is not a fact-finding court, it comes onthe basis of nothing except EPA's order. We -- we do notknow the record before the administrative agency on thebasis of which the EPA acted. Now, if you had gonethrough the State administrative procedure, that recordwould have been examined. That would -- the action inquestion would have been the action of the State agencyand -- and you would examine the record before the Stateagency.But -- but the administrative action we'rereviewing here is not the State administrative action. It's your administrative action, and the only relevantrecord is the record before the EPA. And -- and as I saidbefore, the court of appeals ends up determining whether it was arbitrary and capricious for the EPA to determinethat the State agency was arbitrary or capricious.You combine those two weird factors and -- andI'm just dubious that this is the kind of review thatCongress intended.MR. HUNGAR: Taking the last part of yourquestion first, Your Honor, there's nothing particularlystrange about an appellate court reviewing a priordetermination of whether an agency decision was arbitraryand capricious. Courts do that all the time --QUESTION: Square. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY MR. HUNGAR: -- under the APA when a districtcourt -- no. If a -- a district court determines whethera -- whether the -- an agency decision was arbitrary andcapricious, the court of appeals, to the extent there arediscretionary issues, they would review deferentially, butreally as a general matter, it's going to boil down to aquestion of law, which is I think the case here, which iswas it -- was it or was it not arbitrary and capriciousfor the State of Alaska to do what it did here. Fundamentally that is a question of law upon review of theEPA's determination. QUESTION: All right. It's a question ofjudgment and whose judgment gets some weight.In respect to that, what I'd really suddenly stirred up again here -- suppose we reach the secondquestion. Suppose we reach the question of whether Alaskadid, in fact, do something that was pretty unreasonable,and suppose I accept your argument that this was totallyunreasonable to say that they didn't have to put in thisspecial technology because of cost when Alaska didn't evenknow what the cost was. That's about like the fan. That's close to the ceiling fan. That's what you'rearguing.But then they've made another argument, and theother argument is bothering me a lot more. And that is th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY that the EPA has taken the position that you have to putthis extra special converter or whatever on number ,even if the consequence of that, because of theinteraction of the regs and their desires with number and number , is more pollution. Now, that does bother mebecause it seems to me a State agency that's trying to geta result that is less polluting is not acting arbitrarilyand capriciously except in rather unusual circumstances. Now, what do I do with that argument? Does thatmean if I accept everything you say -- but that worries me-- I should send it back for another determination ofwhether this really is arbitrary and capricious? Whatshould I do with that argument? MR. HUNGAR: Your Honor, the State agency did not justify its final permit decision on that rationale. The State is now arguing in its brief in this Court --QUESTION: That's a -- that's one point. I'vegot that point. That's a kind of technical point in mymind. In other words, Alaska might really be pollutingmore, but because of this sort of which paper they wrotewhich in, we should just accept it. Now, I got thatargument. But is there any other?MR. HUNGAR: But it's more than that, YourHonor. The State agency expressly rejected that analysis,refused to conduct that analysis, refused to base its th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY permit decision on that approach because it agreed it wascontrary to the requirements of the act. That's at page of the joint appendix. The State agency said we are-- we agree that's not an appropriate way in which toanalyze the BACT question. That's consistent with EPA'sregulations, in answer to Justice Ginsburg --QUESTION: Yes. I asked that question before.MR. HUNGAR: Yes.QUESTION: And -- and it is a question ofinterpretation of the text of this statute. I thoughtthat EPA was taking an anti-bubble approach, that it said,you want to have generator . We look at generator and that's what the statute means by new source. Ithought you were taking that view, but maybe you're not. MR. HUNGAR: Your Honor, and -- and Chevronitself actually discusses this, as you -- as yousuggested, but Chevron recognizes that EPA has -- hasconstrued the -- has applied the bubble concept or notdifferently. It -- the bubble concept applies at theinitial stage in determining whether a modification has togo through prevention of significant deteriorationanalysis.But once -- once that -- once it is determinedthat the total emissions are going to increase so that the-- the modification does have to go through that analysis, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY it is then -- the bubble concept no longer applies and theanalysis is done on an individual basis. That's set forthin EPA regulations promulgated through a notice andcomment rulemaking --QUESTION: That's what I thought. So it isn't aquestion of just loose, arbitrary, and capricious. EPA istaking the position that you look at generator becauseyou've already made the determination that adding agenerator, modifying another one, is going to add to thepollution. MR. HUNGAR: As a matter of law, what EPA hasdetermined in -- in exercising in -- its rulemakingauthority is that the statute requires that once it'sdetermined that the BACT analysis must be made, it must be made on an individual unit basis, which is exactly whatthe State ultimately did here. The State conceded that iscorrect as EPA's regulations state. Only in its recent --in this Court is the State now trying to back away fromthat.QUESTION: Mr. Hungar, can I ask you, going backto Justice Scalia's question earlier, is there asignificant difference in the record before us in thisproceeding than what the record would contain if they hadfollowed the route of applying a review of the Alaskaorder through the State system? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY MR. HUNGAR: We don't believe so, Your Honor. The EPA gave the State ample authority and Cominco ample-- I mean, ample opportunity to place in the recordwhatever materials they wanted --QUESTION: That was my impression, the recordreally was the same no matter which way you went.MR. HUNGAR: The Ninth Circuit, when this casewas in -- in the court of appeals, issued an orderdirecting the preparation of a record and asking theparties what -- to -- to address whether the record wascomplete or not. Cominco and the State said the recordwas sufficiently complete. The only things that -- thatthe State identified --QUESTION: Well, did they -- did they put in the whole State record --MR. HUNGAR: I don't know that the whole --QUESTION: -- before the State agency?MR. HUNGAR: The -- the administrative fills abox. It contains internal ADEC communications, memoranda,analysis, the Cominco application. It's quite detailed.QUESTION: But in any -- I take your answer isthey can put in the entire State record to go before thecourt of appeals. Is that the answer? MR. HUNGAR: Absolutely. And -- and again,under Overton Park and under this case's precedents, if th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY the EPA record is incomplete for some reason, the Courtcan remand it to the agency for -- for further -- tocomplete the record. But that doesn't -- that doesn'tsuggest that EPA doesn't have the authority to act. Itmerely suggests that EPA needs to exercise that authorityin a procedurally correct manner. QUESTION: It goes back to a question that hasnow dropped out of the case entirely it seems. In theNinth Circuit, I think EPA was arguing this is not a finalorder. You have to wait until we go into court and thecourt that we would go into is a district court where afull record could be developed.I take it you have now abandoned that argumentand seen the error of your ways, and now you accept that this is final. What led you to change?MR. HUNGAR: Upon further consideration of thisCourt's more recent precedents in the -- in the area offinality, the -- the Whitman case and Bennett againstSpear and given the particular circumstances of this casewhere the agency -- where EPA was not simply issuing anorder to someone saying you're violating preexistingrequirements of the act, but was in fact changing thestatus quo and stating that a -- a permit that had beenissued by the State that allowed construction could nottake effect, in those circumstances we -- we concluded th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY that this Court's precedents regarding final orders aresatisfied and that this is indeed a final order because itimposes legal obligations, new legal obligations, onCominco.QUESTION: Mr. Hungar, you -- you've just toldus that the reviewing court can have the full State recordbefore it when it makes its determination. What about EPAwhen it makes its determination, when it issues its order? What -- what does it have in front of it? It doesn't haveto have anything, does it?MR. HUNGAR: Well, it has to have evidencesufficient to make a finding that the State is notcomplying with the requirements of the act, Your Honor.QUESTION: Well, but it doesn't -- it doesn't have to do that on the basis of the record presented tothe agency, does it?MR. HUNGAR: Well, it's difficult --QUESTION: Did it in this case? Is that -- isthat what it did? Did it review the agency record here?MR. HUNGAR: Well, in this case it's -- althoughthey had extensive record materials before them, the --the flaw in the State's decision making is apparent on theface of the State's own decision. As I said before, pages and of the joint appendix revealed that the Stateadmits it doesn't have factual support for what it views th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY as the foremost consideration justifying its decision. But -- but if EPA issued -- issued an orderunder this act without -- without the record materials infront of it, and -- and had -- therefore, had no basis forissuing an order, a court of appeals could set it aside.QUESTION: Can you tell me? I want to be veryclear on what I didn't hear in answer to my question. What I was concerned about -- and I understand your legalarguments, but I was concerned about their claim. If youwin this case, what it means is more expensive technologygoes onto number . They run number less. They run and more, and the net result in Alaska is morepollution. Now, you haven't said -- I haven't heard yousay, no, that's wrong. What you have said is we shouldn't reach it. There -- there -- they didn't make the claim inthe right place with the right words. And I want to giveyou a chance to say, no, that's wrong, if it is wrong.MR. HUNGAR: I think it is wrong, Your Honor. It is -- it is theoretically possible that if theyinstalled this expensive generator and spent millions ofdollars on it and never once turned it on and they ran allof their other -- other generators percent of the timewithout ever stopping them, it is theoretically possiblethat there could be slightly more pollution. However,that is highly implausible, number one, and number two, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY there is no finding by the State that that is in fact whatwould happen. This is merely argument in their appellatebriefs.And what is clear on the record is that under --if the State had adopted SCR as BACT, the total cap onemissions allowable by this facility would be hundreds oftons lower than the cap that was imposed by the State. That's undisputed and perfectly clear that SCR wouldresult in a total emissions cap far lower than the onethat the State wanted to impose. And so the State'sargument, unsupported by any findings, is that -- is thesheer speculation that Cominco would spend millions ofdollars to install a generator that it would never use. We submit that's highly improbable.QUESTION: So, do I -- I understand you to saythat they would be forced -- I take it you're --implicitly you're saying they'd be forced to use thisgenerator because the use of this generator would be theonly way that they, in fact, could comply with the cap?MR. HUNGAR: No, Your Honor. If -- if theyinstalled this generator and if -- if selective catalyticreduction were deemed to be required, the total -- there'sa total emissions cap of , tons in the State's permit.QUESTION: For --MR. HUNGAR: For all seven generators. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY QUESTION: -- for this -- all seven. Okay.MR. HUNGAR: And if -- and that includes MG-under -- using the Low NOx. Under Low NOx, MG- -- itsoutput is tons if it's used throughout the year, tons. Under SCR it would output -- put out only a tenthof that at full capacity. So the total cap under BACTwould be hundreds of tons lower, slightly less than ,tons. QUESTION: The cap -- the cap wouldn't be lower.The total emissions would be lower. The cap would --MR. HUNGAR: The -- the total emissions capwould be lower. The -- the company is free to -- tochoose how to -- how to meet the cap, how to -- whichmachines to operate at what times, as long as it doesn't exceed that cap. But the cap is determined by adding tothe preexisting cap total for the other six generators theadditional amount that is deemed permissible to --QUESTION: So -- so the answer is it wouldprobably -- most probably use the new generator.MR. HUNGAR: Absolutely. QUESTION: Theoretically it wouldn't have to.MR. HUNGAR: Correct.Your Honor, we -- Your Honors, we submit thatCongress clearly intended EPA to exercise meaningfulenforcement authority in the prevention of significant th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY deterioration program. Indeed, it specifically authorizedin that very context EPA to issue the types of orders atissue here. We, therefore, ask that the judgment of thecourt of appeals be affirmed.QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. Hungar. Mr. Franklin, you have minutes remaining.REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF JONATHAN S. FRANKLINON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERMR. FRANKLIN: Thank you, Your Honor. Responding to Justice O'Connor's colloquy withcounsel as to whether EPA could simply remand the case andthen there might be a back and forth that could take --QUESTION: I didn't ask if it was -- couldremand it. I asked whether it would be open to the State to go through the drill that EPA said it didn't do beforeand that the State said it didn't have the information toenable it to do.MR. FRANKLIN: And -- and that is precisely theproblem in our view because EPA, if the Court upholds itsauthority in this case, can act by fiat at any time itwants on the basis of any information that it deemsrelevant, even after a permit has gone through the entireState process, even after it has become final under Statelaw, and even after the source may have invested millionsof dollars in the technology. Then EPA could step in. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY What we are saying here -- and, Justice Breyer,we don't care which court --QUESTION: Well, there are courts -- there arecourts with doctrines that would not allow suchinequitable conduct. I mean, you brought up it could beyears and years later; anytime, years later, EPA couldwake up. The answer to that was that no court would givean ear to EPA having just slept on --MR. FRANKLIN: With respect --QUESTION: -- on the situation.MR. FRANKLIN: With respect, Your Honor, EPA'senforcement authority in this case is mandatory. Undersection , they shall take appropriate measures to stopconstruction. Therefore, if the Court upholds their authority in this case, they have to exercise it at anypoint.And, Justice Breyer, we don't care which courtconducts the review. We care that a court does and notEPA acting at any time by fiat according to anyinformation that it may have at -- at -- on the basis ofwhat it thinks may or may not be reasonable orunreasonable.The point of the matter is, is that the Stateprocedures are fully adequate to address any concerns thatEPA has raised here, and its injecting itself into the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY process, disrupting the orderly process -- and, JusticeStevens, the record would be different and it would bedifferent because Alaska law allows, when a party hasproperly objected, for a de novo administrative hearing,at which the agency is allowed to present additionalevidence, witnesses, and further refine and clarify itsdecision.If there was any legitimate concern as towhether the State's decision wasn't clear, as it shouldhave been, that is the manner in which it should have beenresolved, through the administrative process. And we areconfident that it would have been resolved there, JusticeO'Connor. That's where the back and forth would haveoccurred, not in the manner of here where we're now years later and we still don't have a decision as to whattechnology this company can use. And finally, Your Honors, the -- the point ofthe matter is there's no legitimate dispute here that theresult of Alaska's decision is cleaner air and that cannotbe unreasonable. CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: Thank you, Mr.Franklin.The case is submitted.(Whereupon, at : a.m., the case in theabove-entitled matter was submitted.) th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY 