 IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES- - - - - - - - - - -- - -XTENNESSEE, Petitioner ::v. : No.-GEORGE LANE, ET AL. :- - - - - - - - - - -- - -XWashington, D.C.Tuesday, January , The above-entitled matter came on for oralargument before the Supreme Court of the United States at: a.m.APPEARANCES:MICHAEL E. MOORE, ESQ., Solicitor General, Nashville, Tennessee; on behalf of the Petitioner.WILLIAM J. BROWN, ESQ., Cleveland, Tennessee; on behalf of Respondents Lane and Jones.PAUL D. CLEMENT, ESQ., Deputy Solicitor General, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on behalf ofRespondent United States. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. C O N T E N T SORAL ARGUMENT OF MICHAEL E. MOORE, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioner WILLIAM J. BROWN, ESQ.On behalf of Respondents Lane and Jones PAUL D. CLEMENT, ESQ.On behalf of Respondent United States REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OFMICHAEL E. MOORE, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioner PAGE th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. P R O C E E D I N G S(: a.m.)CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: We'll hear argumentnow in No. -, Tennessee v. George Lane.Mr. Moore.ORAL ARGUMENT OF MICHAEL E. MOOREON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERMR. MOORE: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice, and mayit please the Court:Whether the Court chooses to view Title II ofthe Americans with Disabilities Act in the entirety of itsindiscriminate application through every facet of everystate program, activity, and service, or in thealternative, as the private respondents urge, in the narrow courthouse access context, presented by theparticular allegations of the complaint they have filed inthis case, the Court should conclude that Title II exceedsCongress' enforcement authority under section of theFourteenth Amendment for essentially two reasons.First, because there was no evidence beforeCongress that the states were involved in a widespreadpattern of violations of the Fourteenth Amendment rightsof disabled persons when the ADA was enacted in . Andsecond, because Title II shares all of the incongruent anddisproportionate features that proved fatal to Title I of th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. the same statute in the Garrett case and then some. Title II's lack of congruence andproportionality to any identified constitutional injuryinflicted upon disabled persons by the states is apparent,we say, on the face of the statute. Congress made noeffort to tailor its provisions to those contexts whichmight conceivably pose a threat to the exercise offundamental constitutional rights by individuals withdisabilities. Instead, Title II applies indiscriminatelyto every service, program, or activity of the states.QUESTION: Let's assume that the - that the state- and it's just an assumption - would concede thatsovereign immunity could be abrogated insofar as access tocourthouses for handicapped people, so that Congress could have drafted a congruent and proportional statute. Thefact that this injury comes within a statute which has amuch larger coverage is grounds for striking the statutedown, even though this case involves what we will assumeto be a - an injury that could be remedied under theFourteenth Amendment with money damages?MR. MOORE: Your Honor's question focuses on adebate that we really haven't engaged in. It's - it's onebetween the respondents and the United States, because inour view, whether the Court views the statute in its - inoverall operation, or as focused narrowly on the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. courthouse access context, either analysis leads to thesame conclusion.Having said that, I would say that theprohibition of Title II is a single, unitary, very elegantone-sentence prohibition in section of Title . Itdoesn't purport to subdivide the statute - the statute'sprohibitions into particular subject matter areas. And asthe United States points out in its brief, this Court'sprior congruence and proportionality cases in - in theabrogation context suggest that the Court looks usually atthe overall operation of the statute.If the Court chooses that perspective on thisproblem, we think yes indeed, even if the statute,assuming the statute, a narrowly-tailored statute could have been drafted that would validly abrogate sovereignimmunity in the courthouse access context, Title II's flawis that it is not so targeted. In fact, of the myriadactivities it covers, Your Honor, a very small percentageconceivably implicate the exercise of any constitutionalright.QUESTION: Mr. Moore, does Tennessee provide anycause of action for the alleged violations here, the lackof access to the courthouse?MR. MOORE: No private right of action under ourState Public Buildings Act. Our State Public Buildings th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. Act, Your Honor, was enacted in . It applied to allbuildings constructed on or after that date.QUESTION: So you're satisfied that underTennessee law, there would be no monetary reliefavailable?MR. MOORE: I think that is - I think that isright. QUESTION: And would there be any enforcementaction at all available to compel under Tennessee law thecourthouses to be accessible?MR. MOORE: No, Your Honor, because underTennessee law, the - the injunction to build fullyaccessible buildings applies to buildings constructedafter the enactment of the Public Buildings Act in . There is no provision in the Public Buildings Actrequiring retrofitting. But, of course, in this case,Tennessee does not dispute its obligation to comply withTitle II, and we do not dispute that our state officialscan be called to account for a failure to comply with theprovisions of Title II in an Ex parte Young action.QUESTION: Well, do you take the position thatTitle II, even if this Court were to find monetary damagesare not available, is there a way to enforce Title II bythe Federal Government against the State of Tennessee?MR. MOORE: Yes, Your Honor, there is, in an th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. enforcement action by the United States, injunctive reliefand monetary damages would be available against the state. In addition -QUESTION: Under what power? I guess - I guessyou're arguing that there's no section authority -MR. MOORE: Yes, Your Honor.QUESTION: - for enactment of this provision. And that would leave what, the Commerce Clause?MR. MOORE: Yes, Your Honor.QUESTION: And you think it would survive theCommerce Clause challenge, do you, as applied to states?MR. MOORE: Your - Your Honor, of course, this -this case doesn't present that question.QUESTION: Right.MR. MOORE: But -QUESTION: But I'm asking.MR. MOORE: But we have not challenged and do notquestion Congress' -QUESTION: Other states have though, have theynot?MR. MOORE: I - it's my understanding that thatclaim has been raised in certain lower Federal courts,yes.Young -QUESTION: How about an action under Ex parte th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. MR. MOORE: Absolutely, Your Honor.QUESTION: - against a state official, not formoney damages, but for compliance?MR. MOORE: Absolutely, Your Honor.QUESTION: Well, I can understand that if thestate official was standing at the door saying, no, youcannot bring a wheelchair in here. But if the buildingitself simply does not allow for - for - for ready access,how would an Ex parte Young action be a source of remedy?MR. MOORE: Well, of course, Your Honor, Title IIdoesn't really apply to buildings. It applies toservices, programs, and activities, and so long as they -QUESTION: Well, if the - if the activity - the -the conduct of - of the business of courts is taking place in a courthouse, I think that gets us to focus onthe building, doesn't it?MR. MOORE: But so long as the - so long as thecourt in question offers the service in - in a - inanother venue, for example, as occurred in this case, Mr.- at every step of Mr. Lane's interaction with the PolkCounty criminal court, an accommodation was offered tohim, albeit it was rejected.QUESTION: So they're - they're saying, look, you- you could have an Ex parte order - Young order - sayinghold court on the first floor. That's - that's what th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. you're getting at? Okay.MR. MOORE: Yes, Your Honor. I mean, the - I - Ishould think a - a court could fashion whatever remedy is- is deemed appropriate to ensure that a - a person in Mr.Lane's circumstance enjoys the full panoply of his - ofhis constitutional rights in - in -QUESTION: But I - I take it your position wouldbe that under Ex parte Young, a court could not say to astate official, build an elevator?MR. MOORE: Well, I think courts have widediscretion to fashion injunctive relief in Ex parte Youngactions, and if, in a particular circumstance, that werethe only reasonable way of delivering the service, I - Ithink that would be inappropriate.QUESTION: So you would as - as a last ditch, youwould concede that?MR. MOORE: Yes. I think - I think in an Exparte Young action, courts have enormous discretion tofashion equitable relief that is appropriate to - towhatever the particular facts and circumstances arepresented -QUESTION: But that would still be CommerceClause-based, right? Because you're excluding theFourteenth Amendment altogether.MR. MOORE: That would be true, Your Honor, yes. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. QUESTION: And there is something strange aboutthat, given that it was Congress' purpose to enable peopleto exercise the rights - the full rights of citizenship. I mean, it's a kind of a dignity right that Congress wasrecognizing, and it doesn't fit as comfortably under theCommerce Clause, does it, as it would under the FourteenthAmendment?MR. MOORE: I think it fits quite comfortablyunder - under the Commerce Clause, Your Honor. But, ofcourse, under this Court's case law, in order to invokeits Section power, Congress had to have evidence beforeit or some reason to believe that the states were engagedin a widespread pattern of violating the constitutionalrights of disabled or - or - of - of whatever group is involved, and here there was no such evidence, certainlynot in the courthouse access context.QUESTION: Well, what about the - that's what Iwant to get to. I - I mean, to put the whole question toyou, I'm assuming we're talking here to use the statuteabout judicial or courthouse-related services, programs,or activities. So I was seeing this as a kind of as-applied challenge, and if it's constitutional in thisarea, maybe we leave the other areas for a later time.Now, on that assumption, as you well know and Ido, the majority criticized my appendix in Garrett - th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. (Laughter.)MR. MOORE: Yes, Your Honor.QUESTION: - for certain inadequacies. And amongthose inadequacies which it highlighted was, one, theinadequacy that it talked about public employment insteadof, says the majority, public accommodations and publicservices. Here we're talking about public accommodationsand public services. Second, the majority criticized it -I'm, you know, aware of these criticisms, I read themcarefully.(Laughter.)QUESTION: The - the - the - criticized itbecause the Senate reports hadn't said anything. Well,here the committee report talks - says discrimination still persists in such critical areas as publicaccommodations and public services. And third, the - theconcurring opinion says there is no record of litigationon this point and the SG has filed a whole brief withloads of - and fourth, the majority made a major point ofthere being a relaxed, rational basis standard of judicialreview, but here we have access to a courthouse, somethingthat would seem to call for more strict scrutiny thanthat.All right. Those are the four things that Icould see as distinguishing this case, and I think it's th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. reasonable to ask you, why don't they?MR. MOORE: They don't, Your Honor. Let me takeeach one in turn. First of all, in the appendix to theSolicitor General's brief, indeed, if the Court will lookat all of the hundreds of pages of briefs filed in thiscase by respondents and their amici, the Court will notfind a single case from a single jurisdiction that hasheld that anytime, anywhere in the United States, aperson's fundamental constitutional rights of access tothe courts has been denied as the result of architecturalbarriers at courthouses. And if there's one context inwhich one would expect to find case law, it is in thecourthouse access context, because after all, the businessthat takes place there is litigation. We think that is aparticularly telling point.Similarly, in - we find in the Government'sbrief, who has - the Government has called from YourHonor's appendix the pertinent entries, and we find eightof them that have sufficient detail that would permit oneto actually ask the question, was a constitutionalviolation involved? And we say that under the - even themost creative interpretation of any of them, they don'tmake out a constitutional violation. All of the otherreferences to courthouses in appendix C to Your Honor'sopinion, we've pulled every single one of them, and they th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. simply - they simply label courthouse facilities asinaccessible.But, of course, under the ADA, inaccessible is aterm of art. It doesn't mean there's literally a wallaround the building and no one can get in. It means thatthey are inaccessible in the sense that the - theamenities required by the ADA are not present, so thatthere are not - there is no evidence before this Court,and there was no evidence before Congress, that anyone'sconstitutional rights, rights of access to the courts,were being violated as the result of the existence ofthese architectural barriers. And for those reasons, wedon't think the - the so-called task force report, whichis summarized in the appendix to Your Honor's dissent in Garrett, helps the respondents. There is no mention in the text of the actitself, of course, of courthouse access, and if one looksat the Senate and House reports on the legislation, onewill discover that there is not a single mention of thesubject anywhere and no other indication that Congressthought courthouse access was a matter of particularconcern.QUESTION: Mr. Moore, I'm sort of concerned aboutthis. Our prior cases dealing with this issue of - of thescope of Congress' - whether Congress' power under the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. Fourteenth Amendment has been properly exercised, none ofour prior cases parse it out issue by issue. Boerne, forexample, doesn't - doesn't just limit it to, you know, to- to whether, given that there was no - no discriminationin this case, Congress could move. You're - what you're -the State of Tennessee is entirely happy to have uschange course and begin to rule upon congressionallegislation of this sort, case by case -MR. MOORE: No, Your Honor.QUESTION: - whether there was enough evidence oncourthouses, whether there was enough evidences - enoughevidence on each of the other innumerable state functionsthat - that were covered by this bill. But, I mean,that's the argument you're making. You - you just want us to - to say there's not enough evidence about courthouses,and therefore, in this case, they can't do it. And we'llhear - we'll hear another case further down the lineabout, you know, any of the other innumerable statefunctions that are impinged upon by this law.MR. MOORE: I would agree with Your Honor that -that the Court's prior abrogation cases, each one of themlooks at the overall operation of the statutory scheme anddoes not look at its application in a context-by-contact -context basis. And we would agree that if the Courtchooses to continue that practice and - and for many of th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. the reasons discussed in the United States brief, we thinkthat is probably the better view of it, this statuteclearly falls, because under no circumstances can - canone say that it - it - it is congruent and proportional toa valid, remedial objective.QUESTION: How - how do you do that? Because ifI think of the antitrust laws, for example, or othercongressional statutes in olden days when the Court, youknow, was worried about the scope of the Commerce Clause,what would happen is they would say, of course theantitrust law is valid, the statute's valid, but it's notvalid to apply it to baseball, because baseball's not aninterstate commerce, or it's not valid to apply it toinsurance. Well, why wouldn't the Court take the same approach here, that this statute may be valid as appliedto X, Y, and Z, where they did have enough evidence, butnot A, B, and C, where they didn't?MR. MOORE: I - because I think the abrogationinquiry is fundamentally different. The abrogationinquiry focuses on whether Congress invoked its powerunder Section in a fashion that is congruent andproportional with a valid, remedial objective, that beinga - a - an identified pattern of unconstitutionalbehavior.QUESTION: In City of - th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. MR. MOORE: And in order to - excuse me, Mr.Chief Justice.QUESTION: In City of Boerne, we certainly didnot go in and analyze whether the church has a claim underthe Constitution or not.MR. MOORE: That's true. That's true, and - andthe same can be said of the Kimel case. The Court didn'tfocus on the peculiar allegations of the complaint in thatcase.QUESTION: Justice Breyer's question, how can youdo that, reminds me of, you know, there's a story aboutthe Baptist minister who was asked whether he believed intotal immersion baptism, and he said, believe in it, I'veseen it done.(Laughter.)QUESTION: And that - that is surely thesituation here. We've done it before in - in each of theother cases involving this area.MR. MOORE: Yes, Your Honor. The statute lackscongruence and proportionality also, not just because ofits sheer breadth, which Justice Scalia's questionhighlights, but also because in the myriad contexts towhich it applies, it imposes obligations on the state thatgo far beyond what the Constitution itself commands.It really does so in two ways generally. First, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. most of the rules under Title II promulgated by theJustice Department to enforce its provisions requirestates to modify otherwise disability-neutral policies andpractices in order to eliminate adverse, disparate effectsthose policies may have on the interests of disabledpersons, whereas, as this Court noted in the Garrett caseitself, under the Fourteenth Amendment, disparate -disparate effects of that - those sorts, without more, donot make out any sort of constitutional violation. Second- yes, Your Honor?QUESTION: I was going to ask you to get out ofthe courthouse area of the case for a minute. TheGovernment's brief contains a statement that in ,approximately one million disabled students were excluded entirely from the public school system. If that weretrue, and if - because of their disability, if that weretrue, would that constitute a constitutional violation?MR. MOORE: I don't think we have enough facts todraw any conclusion.QUESTION: And then my next question is, there'snothing in the record - suppose you had severalCongressmen who said, I'm going to vote for this statutebecause I'm convinced that this fact is true, but there'snothing in the hearings, but - but it definitely motivatedthe voting of people who voted for this statute, could - th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. would it be valid in that fact, that situation? Or do wehave to have evidence in a - in a congressional hearing inorder to justify a congressional decision?MR. MOORE: I think there must be evidence of apattern of constitutional violations, and merely sayingthat a particular class of persons is excluded from publicschools, for example -QUESTION: Is it - is it -MR. MOORE: - without more information doesn'tpermit a conclusion necessarily that a constitutionalviolation is going on.QUESTION: Is it true then that in a case likethis, we must examine legislative history in order todetermine the validity of the statute?MR. MOORE: Unless - I mean, there are certaincontexts where - where the - the history of discriminationis so well known and has been documented in this Court'sown opinions, that perhaps that's unnecessary.QUESTION: Well, it hasn't been - I'm assuming ithasn't, but it's just clear that the Congressmen who votedfor the statute thought it was true. They got lettersfrom their constituents and acted on that sort ofinformation, and that - but that can never be sufficientunder your understanding of our cases? It must besomething in the congressional record? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. MR. MOORE: I think there must be something inthe - in the record that establishes a state - stateparticipation in a widespread pattern of unconstitutionalbehavior, yes, Your Honor.QUESTION: Mr. Moore, you - you don't concede, Iassume, that the Constitution is violated by not - notproviding educational - public educational facilities thatwill be accessible to all handicapped persons? You don'tconcede that that's a constitutional violation, do you?MR. MOORE: No, I do not. No, I do not.QUESTION: I didn't think it was.MR. MOORE: The - the - and in fact -QUESTION: I mean, you - you need a rationalbasis.MR. MOORE: That's right.QUESTION: And - and if - if the - the additionalexpense for constructing the buildings in - in a mannerthat would render them accessible to all handicappedpersons is excessive, it's not a constitutional violation. Now, it may be a very bad idea, but we've never held thatthat's a constitutional violation.MR. MOORE: I - I think that's right, Your Honor. The only -QUESTION: So saying that so many handicappedpersons couldn't get into public schools would prove th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. nothing at all, would it?MR. MOORE: I think you're absolutely right, YourHonor. The only context in which this Court has appliedheightened scrutiny in - in the education context is wherethere was a - a - a punitive class-based exclusion, and -and there only in the K through context, and so merelyreciting that a certain number of students were beingexcluded without more information, Your Honor, I thinkwould not make out a constitutional violation.QUESTION: Just out of curiosity, in your view,is the requirement that Congress have a kind oflegislative - I've called it an administrative or courtrecord - to document the evidence of unconstitutionalityof practices applicable only in Section of the - of the Fourteenth Amendment, or is something - is it aconstitutional requirement that applies to all theprovisions of Article I, including the Commerce Clause andother provisions?MR. MOORE: Quite frankly, I focused only on thisCourt's cases construing Section requirements in thiscontext. But I - I think - I think Congress - whenCongress invokes one of its powers in a way that intrudesupon the sovereignty of the states, it must document thatit has an adequate basis in fact for concluding that thatpower exists. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. QUESTION: It's like - it's like a mean question,because if you - if you answered the question that theyhad to be different, I'd said why, and if you answered thequestion they'd have to be the same, each of us can castour minds over dozens of pieces of important legislationwhere, let's say, the underpinning - let's take theCopyright Clause or let's take any one of a dozen wherethere isn't really much of a legislative record. I mean,that's - do you want to say anything about that? I mean,that's the problem I see there.MR. MOORE: Well, of course, here, this casedeals with a specific context, the - the - the invocationof Congress' power to - to abrogate the state's sovereignimmunity, and it seems entirely reasonable for the Court to construe section as requiring that before theCongress alters the Federal-state balance in such a graveway, that it document very carefully its basis for doingso.QUESTION: Of course, the - the commerce powerexists whether or not other - other facts are - areestablished. It is a power that Congress always andeverywhere possesses. Congress does not always andeverywhere possess the power to subject the states to - to- to lawsuits.QUESTION: Yes, but - th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. QUESTION: That power exists only - only when, as- as we - we found was not well-enough established inBoerne, only when there has been a constitutionalviolation by the states, so why isn't that an adequatereason for the difference?QUESTION: But is that quite correct? Isn't ittrue that under section they prohibited the poll tax andliteracy tests, even though they'd been held permissible? They were not unconstitutional, they were prophylacticmeasures.MR. MOORE: But that was, Your Honor, only aftera - a well-documented history of discrimination anddiscriminatory application of those -QUESTION: But you would agree that it's not essential that there be a constitutional violation?MR. MOORE: I - I think there must be evidence ofa pattern of a unconstitutional behavior.QUESTION: The answer is no. The answer is no.(Laughter.)QUESTION: You don't agree with that. There hasto be a constitutional violation.MR. MOORE: There has to be -QUESTION: The remedy may go beyond theconstitutional violation, but there has to be aconstitutional violation, does there not? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. MR. MOORE: I agree with you, Your Honor, percent, and I would like, Mr. Chief Justice, to reservethe rest of my time for rebuttal.QUESTION: Very well, Mr. Moore.Mr. Brown, we'll hear from you.ORAL ARGUMENT OF WILLIAM J. BROWNON BEHALF OF RESPONDENTS LANE AND JONESMR. BROWN: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it pleasethe Court:Unlike Garrett and Kimel, and entirelyconsistent with this Court's opinion in Hibbs, Title II asapplied to the case that is before the Court todaypresents a constitutional application of the powers ofCongress under section of the Fourteenth Amendment. QUESTION: When you say, Mr. Brown, as applied tothe case that's before the Court, you're suggesting thatit can be kind of sliced up and just, say, addresscourthouses?MR. BROWN: Your Honor, please, I think thehistory that this Court has used in the past is to focuson the case and the circumstance and the issue that'sbefore the Court. The case that's before the Courtinvolves the fundamental right of access to the court.QUESTION: Well, but in - in our other casesdealing with Congress' section power, I don't think th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. we've taken that position. We have said, particularly inthe City of Boerne, the Government response must becongruent and proportional, which suggests that there maybe constitutional violations, but they're simply notsufficient to justify what Congress did. That's themeaning of - I understood - of the term, congruenceproportionality.Now, if you - if you simply focus down narrowlyenough and say, was there a constitutional violation indenying the church the zoning, the - that reallyeliminates the idea of proportionality entirely.MR. BROWN: Respectfully, Chief Justice, the waythat I took Boerne was that this Court made a directstatement to Congress that they had overstepped their bounds in interpreting the First Amendment and theFourteenth Amendment and its applications. The Courtlooked directly at Congress and said not that in theseparticular circumstances, but on this particularconstitutional issue, you went too far.Now, what we're talking about in this case todayis not about whether or not Congress dealt with afundamental right. That's unquestionable. Today whatwe're talking about here is what I would suggest to theCourt the quintessential element of the FourteenthAmendment, and that is the right of each of us as th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. individuals to due process of law, to life, liberty, andproperty.QUESTION: The legislation doesn't deal with thatconstitutional right. It doesn't - doesn't mention, youknow, due process and - and - and courthousesspecifically. It - it embraces innumerable things. Andwhat you're saying is, because one of the innumerablethings that it embraces happens to involve aconstitutional right, the legislation is a valid exerciseof - of section power as to that particularconstitutional right. And I - that doesn't strike me as - as accurate. If Congress wants to enact such a sweeping statute, astatute that - that, in effect, as we said in Boerne --what was going on in Boerne was that Congress wasrewriting the First Amendment, and here Congress isrewriting the Equal Protection Clause essentially, sayingthat - that - that there must be constitutionally or byvirtue of this - of this supposedly constitutionallyremedially statute, there must be equal treatment of - ofhandicapped people. And it - it seems to me it's exactly parallel towhat was going on in - in Boerne, rewriting the FirstAmendment versus rewriting the Equal Protection Clause,and we looked at the whole sweep of - of Congress' action, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. not just at the particular First Amendment claim.MR. BROWN: Justice Scalia, respectfully,Congress does not have a real good record of writingmemorandum opinions. What it said specifically was, thislaw deals with the Fourteenth Amendment, and what thestatute says is that citizens, qualified citizens forprograms and services and activities of the state, have aright to participate in those activities without havingthe onerous issue of their disability come into play.QUESTION: Mr. Brown, are you saying that these -what fits within this statute would independently violatethe Constitution, and all that the statute does isprovide, in this case, a damage remedy?MR. BROWN: I think it does.QUESTION: So that in - in all the cases thatwould fit under this legislation, someone could come in,say, and seek injunctive relief -MR. BROWN: Well, absolutely.QUESTION: - for a violation of a constitutionalright?MR. BROWN: Well, the beauty of Title II is thatwe don't have to chase all those rabbits. I mean, TitleII gave me the benefit of a trial lawyer in Tennesseewhose sole purpose and interest was, one, to make surethat our courthouses in Tennessee were accessible, and th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. two, that individuals that were harmed, that sufferedpain, embarrassment, humiliation, as they individually, ontheir own, by virtue of their right under the FourteenthAmendment to represent themselves had to crawl up thestairs of one of our courthouses -QUESTION: But let's take, say, it's a - it's aseat in - in a public stadium, which is also covered, or atheater, and it's inaccessible to certain people withdisabilities, would that be a violation of theConstitution, for which this statute provides a remedy?MR. BROWN: It may not provide or deal with aconstitutional violation, but it certainly deals with aprophylaxis issue. And - and let me give you thisexample. Suppose there was a political rally in that stadium, suppose the President came to address a largeaudience of individuals in that particular stadium, andthose individuals who have mobility disabilities decidedthat they wanted to go and hold up a sign that says, Mr.President, make our buildings accessible. Is that notreally a fundamental First Amendment right, and the factthat they can't get there implicates their right topetition their government?The concept that we as individuals have a rightunder the Fourteenth Amendment to be citizens in all ofits aspects, not just simply in one context that may or th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. might - may not ever come, surely today in the year ,Congress has the power to ensure that we as individualshave all the rights of citizenship without reference toany individual context.QUESTION: Then - then would you -MR. BROWN: That doesn't make any sense.QUESTION: Would you explain to me the differencebetween your position and the Government's position then? Because you've - you've gone beyond - at least, as Iunderstand your answer, you've gone beyond a - a kind of astrict, as-applied argument, and - and I'm not sure whereyou and the - and the Government part company at thispoint, if you do.MR. BROWN: Your Honor, I represent six people in Tennessee who are trying to get access to the courts ofour state. If I can win their cause, then I will besatisfied with the results that I initiated in when Ifiled this lawsuit. If I have a responsibility to gobroader and to defend all the other aspects of Title II,but lose my clients' case, then I have not done them aservice, nor have I done a service to other individualswho are seeking access.QUESTION: Is - is your argument still that whatyou are complaining of would independently be aconstitutional violation, so that the virtue of this act, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. in effect, is to provide a remedy, and that's all we needto consider?MR. BROWN: Absolutely, Your Honor.QUESTION: Okay.QUESTION: You - we don't have to just say thisone individual, do we? I mean, there is a pretty goodrecord here. I - well, I better not characterize it,because I come from a certain point of view on this, butthere's a pretty good record, and I felt the ChiefJustice's question was getting to this. I mean, are youarguing that if this - this statute could constitutionallybe written giving you constitutionally this lawsuit as aremedy, in respect to your client that's good enough, thatis a harder argument possibly than to say, well, if it's valid in respect to the general problem of providingjudicial services, which is a big category, one wholebranch of the state. I mean, that category might bevalid.MR. BROWN: Let me say, Your Honor, respectfully,I think we do have to establish a category. I don't thinkthat Title II nor this Court would ever suggest thatliterally every person who comes in with a Title II claimhas to state a constitutional violation, because then ittakes away from the prophylaxis benefits of Title II.What is says, what Title II fundamentally says, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. and literally adopts what I think is the fundamentalpurpose of the Fourteenth Amendment, is back to what Isaid before. We as individuals have a right to be therewhere our government works and where it operates. AndGeorge Lane is a classic example of that. George Laneconfronted as an individual with a misdemeanor charge, adriving on a revoked license case, the proposition thatthe only way he could get to the courtroom where hisliberty was at stake was by crawling. The state suggeststhere were alternatives. Where were the people offeringto carry him up the stairs the first time? Where werethey?QUESTION: There has to be an affirmative offer? He could not have asked for assistance getting up the stairs?MR. BROWN: Your Honor -QUESTION: It's a constitutional violation not tooffer it as opposed to refuse it when he asks for it?MR. BROWN: Your Honor, please.QUESTION: I mean, he appears downstairs and -and he sees one of the constables there and says, youknow, I can't make it upstairs in my wheelchair, could Ihave assistance get - getting upstairs? Now, is that a -is that a constitutional violation not to have anelevator for him, but to say, you know, we'll - we'll see th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. that you are carried up by - by constables? Is that aconstitutional violation?MR. BROWN: I think that it is, Your Honor,because the presumption is that somebody would be there tocarry him.QUESTION: I - I don't understand that. It isbecause the presumption is that somebody -MR. BROWN: There is no constitutional right - ifhe doesn't have a constitutional right generally to getthere, what gives him the constitutional right to havesomebody carry him up there? You're asking what GeorgeLane to rely on -QUESTION: He has a constitutional right for thestate to provide him the means of being present at his trial. Now, does the means have to be an elevator orcould it be someone assisting up the stairs? Now, there -it - it may be less dignified in the latter - in thelatter situation, and that's a proper subject forstatutory activity, but is it a constitutional violation,so long as the state assures that he can - he can bepresent at his trial?MR. BROWN: His safety, Your Honor, is a criticalissue. Ralph Ramsey, who is one of my clients, weighs pounds. To say that he has a constitutional expectationthat one or two or five or the whole battalion of deputy th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. sheriffs in Cocke County would and could carry him upthose stairs, I mean, what's he going to do, file aFederal lawsuit to make sure that somebody will carry himup there? I don't think he has that right. What he has is the prophylaxis benefit of a lawthat says we're going to create buildings where people cangain access to their rights as citizens. That is asimportant to say as it is to say that we all have a right,no matter what our circumstances, our background, ourclass, to get to the civic center of life, public life inour communities, and that should be done, Your Honor, andI don't know that you all have ever said that, but thatshould be done with dignity and respect that theFourteenth Amendment speaks about all of us as individuals. And today I think that is what is soimportant and at stake. This case is not just aboutindividuals with disabilities.QUESTION: Probably this is universally acceptedwhat you're saying, and what I wonder is, is why, if youcould explain it, what your opponent is saying is that togive people a remedy for the violation of that principle,it is adequate to have the Federal Government bring alawsuit or they bring an Ex parte Young, et cetera,action. Now, why isn't that sufficient?MR. BROWN: Your Honor, please, the Federal th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. Government was not there the day George Lane confrontedthose stairs. George Lane could not call upon the FederalGovernment that day to ensure that he didn't go to jailbecause he refused to crawl those stairs.QUESTION: Neither was a Federal judge who couldhear his lawsuit.MR. BROWN: And that's why the -QUESTION: I mean, the Federal Government bringsa lawsuit or he brings a lawsuit.MR. BROWN: That's -QUESTION: Neither one of them is thereinstanter.MR. BROWN: Respectfully, Your Honor, that is whyTitle II is there, to make the State of Tennessee anticipate that problem, solve that problem, so ourcitizens don't have to confront those obstacles and facepain, suffering, and public humiliation as a condition ofcitizenship.Respectfully, Your Honor, please, this dealsagain, as I have said, not just with the rights ofdisability individuals, but the rights of all of us to go,to petition our government, to have a right to representourselves in a court of law.QUESTION: There is a difference, though, if youtalk about non-discrimination, say, with respect to race th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. or religion, you - you use the word dignity to say thestate has to respect the dignity of every human being, butto respect the dignity of certain people with disability,the state has to do more than not harm them, notdiscriminate against them. It has to have a kind ofaffirmative action that's permanent, isn't that so?MR. BROWN: Respectfully, Justice Ginsburg, anelevator to an individual with disabilities is nodifferent than stairs are to me as a person withoutdisabilities. It's the way I get there. The fact that Ihappen to have an opportunity to walk upstairs doesn'tmake those accommodations any different to me than it iswith an individual with disabilities. The point of thematter is, suppose as in Meigs County, where you've got a stairway getting to the second floor that barely oneperson can climb up, it's creaky, I mean, are we going tosay if they shut down those stairs, we can haul people upwith a pulley and a rope?QUESTION: That's not the point that I'm making.MR. BROWN: I'm sorry, Your Honor.QUESTION: The point is that sometimes to respectthe equal dignity of a person, we have to treat themspecially, and I think that that's what the elevator is. It is special for a class. It isn't the same as everybodyelse has. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. MR. BROWN: Your Honor, I think the word specialaccommodation is something that is a problem. I - I hopethe Court will understand that -QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. Brown.MR. BROWN: I'm sorry, Your Honor.QUESTION: Mr. Clement, we'll hear from you.ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAUL D. CLEMENTON BEHALF OF RESPONDENT UNITED STATESMR. CLEMENT: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice, andmay it please the Court:Unlike Title I of the ADA, which regulatesstates as employers and treats public and privateemployers alike, Title II of the ADA focuses on states andstate governments as governments in their distinct role as providers of public services. As a result, Congressfocused specifically on the conduct of state and localofficials rather than simply extrapolating from theexperience of private employers.Equally important, Congress in the statutoryfindings and legislative reports, the same reports thisCourt found lacking in the Garrett case because they didnot include specific findings of public sectordiscrimination in employment, those same findings andreports found persistent discrimination in such criticalareas as access to public services and voting. Moreover, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. as this Court -QUESTION: That - that - that's persuasive ornot, depending on what was meant by the termdiscrimination. If it simply meant that - that thehandicapped were not accommodated by special provisions,such as elevators, that might be quite true, but it wouldalso not be a constitutional violation, would it?MR. CLEMENT: Well, Justice Scalia, I think thatbrings us to the second important distinction betweenTitle I and Title II, which is because -QUESTION: Well, let - let's stay on your firstone. I'm - I'm - I'm waiting to hear what - what findingsCongress made that has anything to do with constitutionalviolations by the states -MR. CLEMENT: Well, and - and -QUESTION: - which is the premise for thislegislation.MR. CLEMENT: And again, Justice Scalia, I thinkthe problem in Garrett, when this Court saw findings ofdiscrimination in an area like employment discrimination,that's governed by rational basis review, then there'svery little reason to think that the small "d", if youwill, discrimination Congress found resulted inunconstitutional discrimination. But because Title IIfocuses on government services, many of which implicate th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. fundamental rights, there's every reason to believe thatwhen government - when - when the Congress found - takevoting for example - discrimination in voting, that theywere actually finding unconstitutional discrimination invoting, because voting and access to polling placestriggers fundamental rights and heightened scrutiny. Andas this Court recognized in -QUESTION: Well -MR. CLEMENT: - in the Hibbs case, when -QUESTION: These two sections - these - these twothings were debated and - and passed simultaneously, or atvery different times?MR. CLEMENT: Title I and Title II?QUESTION: Right.MR. CLEMENT: They - they passed at the sametime.QUESTION: And - and they're - they're usingdiscrimination to mean one thing in - in one half andanother thing in the other half? That's - that's what youwant to argue to the Court?MR. CLEMENT: I think whatever way they wereusing discrimination, I think that that finding ofdiscrimination is going to be much more likely to becorrelated with actual constitutional violations in anarea that implicates fundamental rights. And I think when th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. there's a specific finding in the text of the legislationitself of discrimination in voting, I think it's verylikely, given the heightened scrutiny that applies tovoting -QUESTION: Okay. You said - but now what - whatdoes it mean to say discrimination in voting? Does thatmean that a person was actually not allowed to vote?MR. CLEMENT: In - in some cases, Mr. Chief -QUESTION: How - how many cases do they - do youhave where the person was not actually allowed to voteinstead of not being facilitated in the ability to vote?MR. CLEMENT: Well, Mr. Chief Justice, let me saythe - the relevant congressional committee heard testimonyof individuals that were turned away from the voting place on - on election day, so there is that kind of evidence. Now, I can't articulate for you how many instances of thatthere were.QUESTION: What - what do you mean by turnedaway? Turned away because there was no elevator?MR. CLEMENT: Turned away because there was noelevator, turned away because -QUESTION: Is - is that a constitutionalviolation?MR. CLEMENT: If - if the voting official tellsthe individual, we - you can't vote here, because this - th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. QUESTION: He tells them -MR. CLEMENT: - this is not accessible -QUESTION: - we - we don't have an - we don'thave an elevator.MR. CLEMENT: Right. If he tells them -QUESTION: So if you want to get up to vote, youhave to find assistance to get up there. It's very bad,and this legislation is directed against it, and canremedy it upon a suit by the United States, but is it aconstitutional violation?MR. CLEMENT: With respect, I think maybe you'dneed to know more, but if the individual in the pollingplace is turning people away because of their disabilityand they're not offering, don't worry, we have a school down the road that is accessible, that's not the facts. They're saying, you can't vote, I'm sorry, we don't havethe facilities. I think that would state a constitutionalviolation.QUESTION: How - how many of these instances didCongress find of people who were actually refused theright to vote?MR. CLEMENT: Well, Mr. Chief Justice, there wastestimony of individuals, I don't have the exact number,and -QUESTION: What - what order of magnitude? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. MR. CLEMENT: I - I think it was anecdotalevidence, and I would say - I mean, to give you a feel forthe - the - the sort of order of magnitude, in the statetask force reports that Congress authorized, there were instances of inaccessible voting places. Now, I can'ttell you the breakdown of how many of those involvedpeople refused at the door and how many of those involvedsimply physical barriers. But I do think it shows thatthere was a significant problem in this area.QUESTION: I don't think it does at all. Inaccessible voting place proves nothing at all. It justproves that the state did not go out of its way to make iteasy for the handicapped to vote, as it should, but as itis not constitutionally required to do. To simply say many voting places are inaccessible proves nothing at all.MR. CLEMENT: And again, Justice Scalia, I thinkthat when you couple an inaccessible voting place withlocal officials who are saying, you can't vote today, wedon't have any facilities for you, that does violate theConstitution.QUESTION: They're not saying you can't vote,they're saying we don't have facilities for you to get tothe voting place.MR. CLEMENT: I - I guess I fail to understandthe difference in that in a practical way. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. QUESTION: I do too.MR. CLEMENT: And I think this Court has said ona number of occasions, in areas of fundamental rights, itis simply not true that only intentional discrimination ofthe kind you have in mind would violate the Constitution. In the access to court context, in particular, thisCourt's decision in M.L.B against S.L.J. suggests that inmany instances in order to avoid unconstitutionaldiscrimination, the courts have to waive filing fees ofindigent defendants or indigent individuals trying toprovide their constitutional right.If that's true in areas of fundamental rights,it's not clear why - why state officials don't have someobligations under the Constitution itself to make accommodations for individuals with disabilities.QUESTION: I'm not under - I really don'tunderstand one - one argument that's going on. I don'tknow why one violation wouldn't be enough to justifycongressional action. It often is that one - one incidenttriggers a legislative response. Why wouldn't one - oneexample be enough?MR. CLEMENT: Justice Stevens, I think oneexample might be enough, especially when coupled by otherevidence in the record that is reinforcing and suggestiveof the problem, especially when coupled with judicial th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. decisions that we provide in appendix A of our brief. Ifyou put all that evidence together, it's clear thatCongress was reacting to a real problem in this context.QUESTION: And solve that problem by requiringaccess to - to state-owned hockey rinks or any state-owned buildings, whether it's a courthouse or anythingelse. I mean, you're - you're talking about it as thoughall Congress was directing this legislation at was - wasthe problem of people getting to the voting place or theproblem of people getting to - to courthouses. That's nothow the legislation reads. It's all public facilities runby the state, hockey rinks, whatever.MR. CLEMENT: That's true, Justice Scalia. Andlet me say two things in response. First of all, I think Congress was entitled, once it found a problem in areas offundamental rights, to say that it's permissibleprophylaxis to - to provide a remedy for a broader arrayof government services.QUESTION: Well, there - do -QUESTION: Where there are no conceivableconstitutional rights involved.MR. CLEMENT: Well, if I could respond to that, Idon't think it's that there's no conceivableconstitutional rights involved. Even in areas that don'timplicate fundamental rights, this Court itself has found th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. a constitutional violation in the disability context in acase like Cleburne. And I think if Congress finds thatstates are engaging in unconstitutional discrimination inareas implicating fundamental rights, that may lead to aninference that they're simply not turning off the switchwhen they get into other areas.QUESTION: Well, would it - would it be aviolation - a constitutional violation to refuse to affordspecial access to a hockey rink?MR. CLEMENT: I - I don't think standing alone,Mr. Chief Justice, it would, and I think I would defendthat in part as part of the permissible prophylaxis of thestatute. If I could say -QUESTION: This is what I'd like to get at. I -I have the impression from your brief that you weresuggesting that we could just address the fundamentalrights aspect of this case and forget about the rest, butyou seem to be saying now that we should consider thewhole thing and consider it all valid as a prophylaxisproposition. Which is it -MR. CLEMENT: Well, I guess -QUESTION: - that you're proposing?MR. CLEMENT: In fairness, Justice O'Connor, it'sboth. I mean, I'm here defending the constitutionality ofthe statute as a whole, but I also think it would be fair th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. for this Court to follow the practice that I think wassuggested in a case it decided called United Statesagainst Raines, and focus in on the aspect of the statutethat is constitutional, that is valid, and that would befundamental rights.QUESTION: Well, we haven't really done that inother cases of this type, of the sovereign immunity of thestates, have we?MR. CLEMENT: You have not, Justice O'Connor.QUESTION: No.MR. CLEMENT: And we pointed that out, and Ithink there is some tension between the proportionalityand congruence test in this as-applied mode of analysis. But I do think the Raines case points out -QUESTION: It was decided maybe years ago,before any of our more recent cases. MR. CLEMENT: I think that's fair, Mr. ChiefJustice. I simply point to Raines because Raines showsthat there's nothing inherently inconsistent betweenanalyzing a section of the Fifteenth Amendment orsection of the Fourteenth Amendment piece oflegislation, an as-applied analysis. And I think there'san important relationship between this Court and Raines,because in Raines, this Court in a sense identified afault line in a statute that was broadly applicable. It th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. applied both to state actors and private individuals. Andin a case in which it applied to state actors, they said,we may have some concerns about whether it can validlyapply to private actors, but we're going to uphold thestatute as applied to state actors.And in the same way, I think if this Courtthinks that the statute is constitutional as applied tofundamental rights, but has concerns in its applicationsto non-fundamental rights, that it could, in effect,decide the case along the same lines. And, of course, thenarrowest ground this Court could decide the case on wouldbe to simply focus on access to the courts.QUESTION: Suppose the state is building a newstadium, a new hockey rink. Does it have a constitutionalobligation to make it accessible to the handicapped?MR. CLEMENT: I'm not sure that it does, JusticeKennedy. I think that if you isolate the example of thenon-fundamental right and ask the question of whether ornot that standing alone violates the Constitution -QUESTION: So - so the Government - theGovernment's position is citizens don't have some rightsof access to public facilities as a matter of theConstitution?MR. CLEMENT: I think they have - they might havesome access under the Constitution and some right. I'm th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. not sure though that I'd be able to make an argument thatthat constitutional right is protected by something morethan that rational basis review. I think that -QUESTION: You're - you're saying that if theonly public facility without a ramp was a hockey rink,you'd have a tough row to hoe, but if every publicfacility, courthouses, schools, et cetera, have no ramps,then you've got a broader context and you've got adifferent argument?MR. CLEMENT: That's exactly right, JusticeSouter. And one other thing I think that's worth bearingin mind is that -QUESTION: And what is - what is theconstitutional right? Freedom of movement?MR. CLEMENT: In - in - in the hockey ringcontext?QUESTION: What is the - what is the basis forthe constitutional right that you accepted in yourresponse to your question - in response to JusticeSouter's question?MR. CLEMENT: Well, I think it would depend onthe facility in particular. I think in the access to the- in - in trying to get access to a court, it would beaccess to the courts. In trying to get access to apolling place, it would be the right to vote. I think one th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. thing I'd like to emphasize though is that the - thatTitle II -QUESTION: There's - there's no - there's nogreater right to freedom of movement or general - on thepart of citizens, freedom of access to all governmentalfacilities?MR. CLEMENT: I - I'm not sure that - that thisCourt has said that yet. If it's interested in -QUESTION: I'm asking your position whether ornot in your view there is such a right.MR. CLEMENT: It's certainly not one that thisCourt has ever articulated, and - and - what I would saythough is that -QUESTION: So you don't have a position on the point?MR. CLEMENT: I have - it's not - it's not amatter I've really given any thought, Justice Kennedy. Iapologize for that. I think the one thing I would like toemphasize is that Title II does not just give an access tobuildings, it doesn't give an access to hockey rinks. Itgives an access to programs, services, and activities, andin many cases, it's going to be the same municipalbuilding that has the courthouse in it as well as othernon-fundamental rights, and that's exactly a goodillustration of why Title II is appropriate prophylaxis, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. because by making the municipal building accessible, evenfor something like a kiddie concert that might notimplicate fundamental rights, you're also making thecourtroom in the same building accessible to individualswho have a constitutional right to access to thatbuilding.One other point I'd like to make is with respectto the damages remedy, which is precisely what seems to bethe gravamen of the concern of the state here. As JusticeO'Connor pointed out, this is not a situation like othercases, where, if the Court strikes this down asinappropriate section legislation, there's going to belots of other remedies. The state provides none andpeople are raising constitutional challenges to the Commerce Clause legislation. The damages remedy that's particularly providedin Title II of the ADA is provided by double cross-reference. Title II incorporates the remedies availableunder the Rehabilitation Act, which in turn incorporatesthe remedies available under Title VI. Those remedies areentirely judge-made, and as the Thornburgh amicus briefspoints out, to the extent that those remedies are thegravamen of the constitutional concern, their judge-madeorigins gives this Court unique flexibility to interpretthe compensatory damages remedy in a way that renders the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. statute as a whole constitutional.Broadly speaking, Congress, in passing thisstatute, found a real problem with the individuals and theentities that are responsible for protecting the civilrights of everyone, denying the rights of individuals withdisabilities. One element of its solution was the elementof compensatory damages. Those compensatory damages arean appropriate response, but it would be very sad if thatone element of the statute was used to bring down theentirety of Title II, given that it remains vitallynecessary to make the promise of the Fourteenth Amendmenta reality for individuals with disabilities.QUESTION: Is there a reason why there's a damageremedy in Title II and not in Title III?MR. CLEMENT: I think there is, Justice Ginsburg. I think that one thing, I think, is that Congress - thedifference in remedies between Title II and Title IIIreflects two things. One, it reflects a judgment that -that unconstitutional action by a state is worse thanunconstitutional action by a private entity.QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. Clement.Mr. Moore, you have four minutes remaining.REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF MICHAEL E. MOOREON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERMR. MOORE: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice. Very th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. briefly, the type of discrimination Congress was referringto in the statement of findings of - and purpose of theact itself is made clear if the Court examines the fifthfinding, which - which tells us what sort - what - whatconcept of discrimination was in Congress' mind when theyused the term throughout those findings. And it talksabout not just outright intentional exclusion, but ittalks about discriminatory effects of architectural,transportation, and communication barriers. It talksabout overprotective rules and policies and their effects. It talks about failures to make modifications to existingfacilities and practices, and exclusionary standards thatscreen people out, in other words, an another disparateimpact sort of conception of discrimination. And I think for that reason one can reliablyconclude that - that - that Congress was not usingdiscrimination in the sense of completely arbitrary andirrational discrimination of the sort that's prohibited bysection of the Fourteenth Amendment with respect todisabled persons, but rather, in the findings and purpose,Congress makes clear that it is addressing a very realsocial problem, one that needs addressing, but one thatdoes not arise to the level of a - a widespread pattern ofconstitutional violations on the part of the state.QUESTION: But it begins section by saying, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. individuals with disabilities continually encountervarious forms of discrimination, including outrightintentional exclusion. So it seems to want to deal withit all.MR. MOORE: Right, but out - of course, outrightintentional exclusion is not necessarily unconstitutionaleither if it is rationally based, with respect to disabledpersons. So one - the use of the term discrimination -QUESTION: What - what's your authority for thatproposition?MR. MOORE: The City of Cleburne case, YourHonor. Action by the state that intentionally andexpressly classifies on the basis of disability is subjectto minimum rational basis scrutiny, and in the examples discussed during the Solicitor General's argument, forexample, the hockey rink example, I mean, one impact of alack of ramps or - or -QUESTION: May I ask you about the hockeyexample? Supposing building a new hockey example, thearchitect said you could do it with equal cost, providingaccess and not providing access. Would it beconstitutional assuming there's no extra expense toprovide no access?MR. MOORE: I - I think so, depending upon ifthere were other reasons for doing it. If - cost isn't th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. the only factor that dictates the design of a building. It might be that the site -QUESTION: Well, supposing the general manager ofthe hockey team doesn't like handicapped people. Wouldthat be a sufficient reason?MR. MOORE: Your - your hypothetical is that thearchitect expressly designs the building to spite disabledpeople? QUESTION: No, the - he has two - two plans, onelets them in and one doesn't, and the manager says, oh, wedon't want these people, they're too much trouble tohandle for the ushers when they get them in their seatsand so forth.MR. MOORE: Your Honor's question posits a rational basis for that decision.QUESTION: And that would be a sufficientrational basis in your view?MR. MOORE: That - under this Court's minimumrational basis jurisprudence, yes, it would.QUESTION: Do you think the Cleburne case was aminimal rational basis case?MR. MOORE: I - I know, Your Honor, there - therehas been a lot of scholarly debate about that, but as alawyer for a state, we must take what the Court said atface value. Thank you very much. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: Thank you, Mr. Moore. The case is submitted.(Whereupon, at : a.m., the case in theabove-entitled matter was submitted.) th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. 