 IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XVERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC. Petitioner ::v. : No. -LAW OFFICES OF CURTIS V. TRINKO, LLP. ::- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XWashington, D.C.Tuesday, October , The above-entitled matter came on for oralargument before the Supreme Court of the United States at: a.m.APPEARANCES:RICHARD G. TARANTO, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf ofthe Petitioner.THEODORE B. OLSON, ESQ., Solicitor General, Department ofJustice, Washington, D.C.; on behalf of the UnitedStates, as amicus curiae, supporting the Petitioner.DONALD B. VERRILLI, JR., ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalfof the Respondent. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY C O N T E N T SORAL ARGUMENT OF RICHARD G. TARANTO, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioner THEODORE B. OLSON, ESQ. On behalf of the United States, as amicus curiae, supporting the Petitioner DONALD B. VERRILLI, JR., ESQ.On behalf of the Respondent REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OFRICHARD G. TARANTO, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioner PAGE th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY P R O C E E D I N G S(: a.m.)CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: We'll hear argumentnext in No. -, Verizon Communications v. the LawOffices of Curtis V. Trinko, LLP.Mr. Taranto.ORAL ARGUMENT OF RICHARD G. TARANTOON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERMR. TARANTO: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court:On the facts alleged, Trinko cannot sustain itscomplaint unless the Court newly recognizes a section duty of a monopolist to turn over its sales to rivals bysharing its assets at specially discounted prices, thatis, a duty to dismantle itself.Our argument is that that hasn't ever been asection duty and shouldn't now be made into one.QUESTION: We have an Illinois Brick problembefore we even get to the substantive question, don't we? I mean, why -- why should we entertain this -- this caseat all?MR. TARANTO: I don't think that Illinois Brick-- in fact, I think Illinois Brick is not a jurisdictionalpoint. It is a question of cause of action that goes tocertain kinds of damages. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY QUESTION: Well, I understand, but -- but those-- those standing rules that are not jurisdictional arestill standing rules, and we normally apply them. Whyshould we not apply our normal rule of standing in thiscase?MR. TARANTO: Well, we -- we do think youshould, but that it shouldn't preclude the Court fromreaching the merits, which are of much broader importance. That is, in the absence of the rule being a jurisdictionalone, the Court has the option of considering either of twogrounds for reversing and reinstating the dismissal, justas the Court did in the sovereign immunity case involvingIsrael last year where there were two alternative grounds.QUESTION: Well, it seems to me --MR. TARANTO: The merits question is a much more --QUESTION: It seems to me you're just trying torush to the merits. I -- I think the standing and theissues are very serious issues here.MR. TARANTO: Oh, we -- we think so as -- aswell, and let me -- let me address that briefly.QUESTION: What you're -- what you're sayingbasically it's a claim for relief issue rather than a --than a jurisdictional issue.MR. TARANTO: Yes, yes. The -- the statutory th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY standing question has always been treated as a question ofwhat the meaning of section of the Clayton Act, thedamages provision, is here, and both the indirectpurchaser rule and the more general indirectness aspect ofAssociated General Contractor has to do with who can getwhat kinds of relief. That's not a jurisdictionalquestion, and therefore it remains open to this Court todo what we think the Court should do, which is also toaddress the question that is directly dividing thecircuits, what is the scope of section . And --QUESTION: Mr. Taranto, you made a -- aninteresting classification, and I think I tend to agreewith it, but I'm not sure that these Court's cases fitthat mold.I had thought that the things that are put under the head of, quote, prudential standing sound like doesthis person have a claim under this statute for relief. That's a (b)() question. But the Court seems to have-- think that there's something in between constitutionalstanding, which everyone agrees exists here, and (b)(),and that's this prudential standing notion.Is there a difference between the (b)()inquiry, does this statute afford this plaintiff a claimfor relief, and what this Court has called prudentialstanding? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY MR. TARANTO: The best that I can do with thatis to describe what the Court has done in the cases thatwe rely on for saying there's no statutory standing. Associated General Contractors and Illinois Brick and itsfollow-on, Kansas against UtiliCorp, are all about theinterpretation of section of the Clayton Act. In thatsense, they are classic (b)() questions. The entireanalysis in Associated General Contractors is about whatthe term injury to business or property means. They areinterpretive questions in that way. They're not separateprudential standing questions somewhere betweenconstitutional standing and statutory coverage. Andthat's why we think it is both proper and really quiteimportant for purposes of the several other circuit casesthat are now sitting in cert petitions in this Court on the merits question that divides the circuits.There is no section duty on the merits now toturn over your sales to a rival. This Court said, as farback as in the U.S. Steel case, section does notcondemn mere size. Section does not compel competition. The act does. It has a quite different policy. Itsays we will mandate creation of competition. Section says we protect against affirmative interferences inindependently arising competition. They're fundamentallydifferent statutory approaches to a highly general goal of th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY competition.QUESTION: Is this a kind of refusal to dealcase? So it could be covered in theory by section ?MR. TARANTO: It is a kind of refusal to deal. It is -- all of the claims in this case, all of the factsallege inadequate help to rivals to come and displaceone's own sales. This Court has broadly recognized thatsection protects the right to just make your sales andnot turn them over to rivals with a category ofexceptions. Every one of those exceptions, the refusal todeal cases, involves discrimination. The firm wasvoluntarily in the business of selling the product thatthe plaintiff wanted, and the plaintiff wanted it at theterms that the firm was selling it to others, and thedefendant said, no.That threshold condition has so far been theonly sufficiently reliable one to trigger the inquiry, ifyou're selling it to some -- to everybody else, why not tothe particular plaintiff? And the answer, we're notselling to the plaintiff because the plaintiff is a rivalor the plaintiff is dealing with a rival, has been the oneexception to the general rule that forced sales to helprivals is not adequate. Discrimination doesn't mean that-- mean illegality. There may be good reasons, but it sofar has been the necessary threshold condition for th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY demanding an inquiry. This case does not involve any kind ofdiscrimination like that. There's no allegation here. There couldn't be an allegation that Verizon was in thebusiness of renting out its facilities to rivals atspecially discounted prices before the act compelledthat.So for Trinko to prevail here, it would have to-- the Court would have to recognize something brand newunder section . It would have to expand section towhere it has never been before, and we submit there areextremely good reasons for not doing that. QUESTION: And the reason Otter Tail -- OtterTail seems like the strongest precedent against you. Before you say the reasons against expansion, I'd just like to hear seconds on why in your opinion Otter Tailis different than this.MR. TARANTO: Otter Tail was also a case ofdiscrimination. If -- the opinion in Otter -- in OtterTail is a little bit shy on full explanation for whatfactors matter, and so one has to look at what the factswere. If you look at the extensive findings of fact bythe district judge, which are in the -- not the appendixof this case but the appendix in Otter Tail, there's anentire section called discrimination. Otter Tail at -- at th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY JA to .Otter Tail was undisputedly in the business ofwholesaling power and of wheeling power to others. Whenparticular communities came and said we want from you thesame thing that you're happily selling to others, OtterTail said no.That's exactly the same kind of discriminationthat existed in Aspen Skiing where the three mountaindefendants said, we won't even take full price ski ticketsfrom people who are using the fourth mountain becausethat's a rival. So discrimination was the predicate theretoo.This is not a case of discrimination. In theabsence of discrimination, any court entertaining asection duty would have to undertake tasks that antitrust has never viewed as appropriate. It would haveto ask what are the effects on long-run investments, thelong-term effects on investments.QUESTION: Well, now you're back into themerits, aren't you?MR. TARANTO: Yes, yes. QUESTION: Yes. Did you finish with the inquiryof whether we should recognize this plaintiff? MR. TARANTO: Well, I -- we think not really for-- for a combination of reasons. All of the factors in th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY Associated General Contractors I think point in the samedirection. The injury here is indirect. That is, Trinkowas a customer of AT&T which was a customer of Verizon,and Trinko's injury was only an indirect result of thealleged injury to AT&T. The additional considerationspoint in the same direction. There's obviously a betterplaintiff. AT&T.QUESTION: But AT&T didn't bring an antitrustaction.MR. TARANTO: Well, the -- the final -- finalreason I'll mention here is that recognizing the statutorycause of action here would also interfere with thevoluntarily agreed upon nonjudicial dispute resolutionmechanism that AT&T and Verizon entered into.QUESTION: Mr. Taranto, Judge Katzmann in the Second Circuit, whose decision we're reviewing, seemed tothink that AT&T was not, as you expressed it, the bettercomplainant, but that the remedy for AT&T was theadministrative context. I -- I thought his opinionsuggested that for AT&T the remedy was the administrativeroute, but for the customer who has no place else to go,it was court or nothing because the customer would nothave access to that administrative process.Now, is there -- first of all, is -- would AT&Thave standing or state a claim for relief if AT&T had been th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY the plaintiff here?And second, if you're right that this plaintiffhas no claim in court, is there anyplace that thisplaintiff can go with the complaint? The reality is --and we accept what the complaint alleges as true forcurrent purposes -- I have gotten the worst service. It'sa constant embarrassment. I've lost clients. I've lostmy professional reputation. That's a legitimatecomplaint. Is there anyone in the world that that can beasserted against?MR. TARANTO: Let me take those in -- in order,if I may.AT&T could, of course, have brought a ShermanAct suit had it not expressly waived its right to go tocourt. It adopted instead a mechanism by which it secured relief far more promptly than any antitrust case wouldhave -- would have obtained. So it's like --QUESTION: But it had no choice in that. Imean, that's a statutory mechanism. There's noindependent waiver that AT&T, as apart from others, whatthey call them, CLEC's. It's -- it's an -- it's a regimeimposed on all the participants, isn't it?MR. TARANTO: Well, that -- that -- nondisputejudicial -- dispute judicial -- nonjudicial disputeresolution was here part of an agreement. It's not in the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY statute. Many agreements contain it. Some agreements donot contain it. This one does. And it serves veryimportant statutory functions of providing what here tookonly months or so fully to resolve the problem and toprovide compensation to AT&T. And that's --QUESTION: Okay, and if -- if there hadn't beenan agreement, AT&T would go where? To the commission? MR. TARANTO: It -- it could go to thecommission or it could bring a Sherman Act suit unless, ofcourse, as we do contend, there is no legitimate section-- section claim. But as far as standing is concerned,the customer, that is, AT&T, has standing.QUESTION: Mr. Taranto, would you clarify onething for me? Did the AT&T settlement just settle the NewYork area problems or was it nationwide?MR. TARANTO: The New York Public ServiceCommission settlement settled the New York problem. Therewas an FCC national level consent decree that on a going-forward basis settled -- solved the problem. The problemwas in fact a -- a New York-specific one, and here we'retalking about the only concrete instance in --QUESTION: Well, I was under the impression AT&Tretained the right to sue in other parts of the country. In fact, they filed an amicus brief in this case, whichsuggests that they still have an interest in the ongoing th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY controversy, but not in New York.MR. TARANTO: I -- I'm -- I'm -- I don't knowthat AT&T has signed similar agreements for the rest ofthe country. This particular problem that gave rise tothis problem was fully resolved in New York withcompensation to AT&T and nationally at the FCC level. SoI -- I -- AT&T certainly, wherever it hasn't adopted anarbitration agreement, the way any other plaintiff canadopt, certainly has a right to go to court and to argueas -- as Covad has in the Eleventh Circuit case, asCavalier has in the Fourth Circuit case, to argue thatthere is a Sherman Act claim, and that's the merits claimthat is before this Court as part of this case as well.QUESTION: Of course, their position is thatthis isn't the best test case because this plaintiff didn't make all the right allegations, as I read theirbrief.MR. TARANTO: Well, I -- I don't think therecould have been any different allegations on thedispositive point. As long as the allegations are theincumbent insufficiently helped the rival --QUESTION: Yes, but they -- they alleged that inother areas, that there had been -- that there's been shamlitigation, fraudulent misrepresentations, and -- andaffirmative misconduct, in addition to failing to comply th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY with all the requirements of the ' statute.MR. TARANTO: And -- and those -- those claims,to the extent that they're not helping hand kinds ofclaims, would of course be outside the analysis. TheCavalier case, the Covad case are overwhelmingly, as thiscase is, helping hand cases, as the Goldwasser case in theSeventh Circuit was, and that's the core issue that --that all of these cases are about.Now --QUESTION: Would you get to the --MR. TARANTO: Yes.QUESTION: -- the last part? Does this customerof AT&T have any remedy for the bad service that thecustomer attributes not to AT&T but to Verizon?MR. TARANTO: Yes. Well, first, in this very case the Second Circuit reinstated the section claimof this plaintiff and this Court denied cert on that. Sothat claim is alive in this very case.QUESTION: Are damages available on that claim?MR. TARANTO: The claim is -- is a claim underthe damages provision of section for an allegedviolation of the substantive Communications Act provisionin section . They, of course, also have any remedies anycustomer has for lousy service here against AT&T, the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY provider of the service, which received compensation.QUESTION: But you -- you say that under --under that there would be if -- if plaintiff prevailson that claim against Verizon, not AT&T, there would be adamage remedy for the loss that the plaintiff could prove? In other words, does it give the plaintiff the same thingthat the plaintiff is seeking here except it's nottrebled?MR. TARANTO: The plaintiff certainly asks forthe same damages. Section -- section is theliability damages provision of the Communications Act. The Second Circuit said that that provision was availableto this plaintiff to seek recovery for injury from thealleged violation of section .QUESTION: Then why did Judge Katzmann say a couple of times the only opportunity for the plaintiff toget damages is if there is this second section suit?MR. TARANTO: I'm -- I'm afraid I can't answerthat question, having -- the court having reinstated that-- that claim. That is a damages claim.If the Court has no further questions, I wouldreserve the balance of my time.QUESTION: Very well, Mr. Taranto.General Olson, we'll hear from you.ORAL ARGUMENT OF THEODORE B. OLSON th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY ON BEHALF OF THE UNITED STATES,AS AMICUS CURIAE, SUPPORTING THE PETITIONERMR. OLSON: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it pleasethe Court:It is not a Sherman Act violation to breach atelephone interconnection agreement. The telephone -- theTelecommunications Act created an extraordinary, carefullycrafted, comprehensive regulatory and remedial regime toforce lawful monopolies --QUESTION: Mr. Solicitor General, before you getinto your argument, do you have a position on the standingissue?MR. OLSON: We did not brief and we did not takea position in our briefing on the standing question. We-- and our reason for doing that, Justice Stevens, is that we believe that in order to ascertain antitrust standing,one has to connect the injury, the alleged injury, to anantitrust violation. We feel that the question of whetheror not there's an antitrust violation in this case comesbefore the determination of the antitrust injury. Andtherefore, the United States did not brief that question. We do believe that the ' statute is, as thisCourt characterized it in its previous review of thatstatute, extraordinary in that it -- it set out to createcompetition in an area where the antitrust laws would not th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY have accomplished that objective. The --QUESTION: Excuse me. I've just been thinkingabout your prior answer, and I -- we certainly don't --don't do this for standing normally. We -- we say thequestion of whether there's been an injury comes beforethe question of whether there's been a violation. That'swhat standing is all about. And -- and you -- you saythat the Government has just concluded that -- that bothquestions are -- are of equal priority, and that -- that'sjust not the way we usually work.MR. OLSON: We -- we felt, Justice Scalia, notin the context of Article III standing, but in the contextof prudential standing in the context of antitruststanding which relates specifically to something thisCourt has called antitrust injury, which ties into the particular violation, and in order to determine that here,we felt that the Court would have to first answer thequestion whether there is an antitrust injury itself. Isthere any violation of the antitrust laws that would giverise to a section , Sherman Act claim in this case.QUESTION: But you're asking us to do that in acase where a -- a plaintiff without a real interest may bethe one that's -- that's demanding that -- thatadjudication. This is very odd.MR. OLSON: Well, we do think -- we do think -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY and had we briefed the question, we would have -- we wouldhave thought that there was -- that -- that Trinko hadsome points here, that it -- this is not an Illinois Brickcase -- that Trinko was depending in part upon serviceprovided by the Verizon loop and that it had a choice, asthe plaintiffs -- the plaintiff -- that Trinko has allegedin this case, that it had a choice between deficientservice from AT&T or -- or paying perhaps a higher priceor something else from Verizon, that there aredistinctions.And we think that they might -- but because wedidn't brief that, because we thought it was -- the Courtfirst -- we have a litigant here that alleges, and we havea Second Circuit decision, and we've got other circuitdecisions that have addressed this very antitrust issue --that it's very important to resolve that case,particularly in the context of where we have an -- asignificant, extraordinary effort by Congress to create acomprehensive, complex, carefully modulated effort tocreate something. QUESTION: And do you -- do you take theposition that that effort gives Trinko a cause of actionunder the statute?MR. OLSON: That we take -- I'm sorry.QUESTION: Can Trinko sue -- does Trinko have a th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY cause of action under the statute?MR. OLSON: Under -- well, yes. In fact, thisis in answer I think to Justice Ginsburg's question. QUESTION: Yes. MR. OLSON: There is a -- there would be -- andthe Second Circuit did decide that there was a right toaction under the discrimination provisions of section . And this appears -- it's the -- the first full --QUESTION: Is --QUESTION: But I -- I thought Mr. Taranto saidthis -- there is no discrimination in this case. So thatif that's true, then there wouldn't be a remedy under .MR. OLSON: Well, first of all, to the extentthat there is and to the extent that there are allegationsof that, the court addressed that and reinstated that very cause of action. This Court decided not to review that. That --QUESTION: Okay, but on the -- just on the factspleaded, do you take -- does the United States take theposition that -- that Trinko has pleaded a cause of actionunder or any other section of the statute?MR. OLSON: We do not dispute, Justice Souter,the existence of the cause of action recognized by theSecond Circuit on page a --QUESTION: Do you dispute that he has pleaded a th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY cause of action?MR. OLSON: We do not.QUESTION: Okay. MR. OLSON: With respect to that section of theCommunications Act.QUESTION: But is there any reason he can't goto the -- the PSC like anybody else can and say I haveducks on the line? MR. OLSON: That's --QUESTION: I can't hear anything. It's terribleand then they issue an order. And if they don't followthe order, you go to court and sue them for damages.MR. OLSON: That's also true and there's also anaction against the -- the -- Trinko had a contract withAT&T to supply it with adequate telephone service. It mayhave a cause of action against AT&T. To the extent thatAT&T attributes its inability to provide that service toVerizon, AT&T has already addressed that under theexclusive remedies it had available to it under thecontract.QUESTION: To -- to get to -- to the merits partof the case, the sacrifice test that you want us to adoptassumes that certain acts are not pro-competitive. But inthis case, doesn't the telephone -- doesn't the Communications Act tell us that certain acts are not pro- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY competitive?MR. OLSON: Actually we submit, Justice Kennedy,that what the Communications Act does is something thatthe antitrust laws never did do. And the reason that theCommunications Act was in -- in fact necessary to break upthe monopolies, to cause legitimate, lawful monopolies todo something that the antitrust laws wouldn't require,that is, to open up their markets, which they had noobligation under the antitrust laws to do, at a subsidizedrate to invite in competition -- that entire regulatoryscheme was something that Congress decided was necessaryto do which no other laws in existence had been able todo.Therefore, not only -- and I think that this isclear from the Court's jurisprudence as well, but also well articulated in the Town of Concord decision that wasauthored by Justice Breyer on the First Circuit. Thatregulatory regime, which monitors the conduct on anongoing basis, which the antitrust laws are not wellequipped to do, prevents the occurrence of antitrustinjury and inhibits the ability to accomplish antitrustbenefits and monitors the process in a way that succeedsin dealing with the possibility of anti-competitiveconduct, but conduct that was not required at all underthe antitrust laws, that on opening of the markets to th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY selling one's assets at a discount, to going into abusiness that the lawful monopolist was not already in. The additional point there is that the trebledamage remedy is considerably more draconian. It acts inan ad hoc, specific case under the supervision ofgeneralize -- generalist judges and ad hoc juries. Whereas Congress decided that the scheme was most -- thatwas most appropriate -- the regime that was mostappropriate to create this new world that this Courtspecifically recognized in the two previousTelecommunications Act cases was this regulatory regime,inhabited by experts, administered by experts, where thereare prompt, efficient, effective remedies, and -- and ascheme which is adjustable from time to time to deal withany anti-competitive conduct.So it's not only a reason why Congress said wedo not change the antitrust laws by this statute. There'sgood reasons why Congress decided to do that. But there'salso additional reasons why the section remedy would bea sledge hammer in an area where Congress has enacted ascalpel to deal --QUESTION: Why -- why do we have to accept orbuy into your broader no-help theory of the antitrust lawsif we -- we accept what you've just said? Why can't wejust say in this particular instance, we don't have to th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY adopt any general principles of antitrust law, but in thisparticular instance the Communications Act has justsuperseded the Sherman Act?MR. OLSON: I agree with that, Justice Scalia --QUESTION: You do.MR. OLSON: -- that the Court does not need togo into broader general principles. And this Court -- we-- we addressed those principles because we felt we had anobligation. And we have addressed -- the Government hasarticulated those same principles not only in thisCourt --QUESTION: How can you say the CommunicationsAct has superseded the Sherman Act when the statute itselfsays it didn't? MR. OLSON: It does -- no, we are not suggesting -- we're not saying that the -- that the act provides anyimmunity. The act still exists side by side. What we dosay is that this was not -- this conduct was not a ShermanAct violation before the act, and the act specificallysays --QUESTION: Well, that's a different point thanthe one Justice Scalia made. You're saying there was noantitrust violation whether or not there was aCommunications Act or not.MR. OLSON: That's correct, but it's th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY specifically true in the context of this regime thatexists. To the extent that there is any anti-competitiveactivity, this Court has repeatedly said that it must lookfrom -- at the antitrust laws and the application of theantitrust laws in connection with the particular industryand in a particular regime in which it exists. So whenthis Court -- this case comes to this Court, it isentirely consistent for this Court to look at the allegedviolation of the antitrust laws in that context.The method that Congress selected to create --to --QUESTION: Thank you, General Olson.MR. OLSON: Thank you. QUESTION: Mr. Verrilli, we'll hear from you.ORAL ARGUMENT OF DONALD B. VERRILLI, JR. ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTMR. VERRILLI: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court:I'll address the standing question first andexplain why consumers in Trinko's position have standingand why General Olson is correct that Illinois Brick isnot a problem. Then I'll show why it would be unwise andunwarranted to adopt the discrimination test that myfriends on the other side advocate as a matter of section law and why the act is crucially relevant and why th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY the antitrust laws in that act should be enforced intandem, as Congress indicated. Now --QUESTION: And at some point in -- in yourstanding discussion, could you address whether or notTrinko could just have sued AT&T, say you're giving uslousy service, we want our money back?MR. VERRILLI: I think Trinko could have broughta suit like that. Of course, AT&T would have then said itwas Verizon's fault, which it was, and there would be --QUESTION: That's not usually a defense, thefailure of the contracting party to deliver adequateservices under the contract.MR. VERRILLI: Well, that -- that's correct, butin this situation, there -- there might well be filed rate doctrine problems with a suit like that. There would beall kinds of a problems with a suit like that. And in anyevent, because Trinko has -- has an is a proper plaintiffunder section of the Clayton Act, is entitled to invokethe Sherman Act, the fact that they had -- it has otherremedies seems to me beside -- beside the crucial point.Now, under Reiter against Sonotone, this Courtheld that consumers have standing under section of theSherman Act -- under section of the Clayton Act to suewhen they are injured by anti-competitive conduct that th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY raises prices or lowers quality in the market where theypurchase. That is what Mr. Trinko is alleging. Illinois Brick is not a reason to cut off thatstanding here, as General Olson indicated, for thefollowing reason. Illinois Brick applies when HanoverShoe applies, and Hanover Shoe does not apply here. Illinois Brick is just the flip side of Hanover Shoe.Hanover Shoe says that in a case of a price-fixing overcharge -- the same as in UtiliCorp -- price-fixing overcharge -- when a middle man pays too much, themiddle man is entitled to sue under the Sherman Act forthe entire amount of the price-fixing overcharge, and the-- and the defendant can't assert a pass-through defense. And -- and the reason for that is to ensure full andeffective use and enforcement of the Sherman Act's damages remedy.Now, in that situation, what Illinois Brickholds is that, well, once the -- once the middle man hassued for the full value of the overcharge, then the peoplesubsequently down the chain can't bring antitrust claimsthemselves because that would create a problem ofduplicative recovery. But the -- but the reason that youdon't have --QUESTION: Or even if he hasn't sued I thought.MR. VERRILLI: That -- well, that's correct, but th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY there were -- because he could sue and there will beproblems of duplicative recovery. But that -- it onlyapplies, Justice Scalia, in situations where the measureof damages that the middle man would have is theovercharge damages. And here, of course, AT&T is acompetitor of Verizon. AT&T would bring a monopolizationclaim, and it's been clear since the Southern Photo casein that AT&T's measure of damages would be its lostprofits, not an overcharge, but its lost profits. And --QUESTION: So as long as the consumer can bringan action for something that AT&T couldn't bring, noIllinois -- no Hanover, no Illinois Brick.MR. VERRILLI: Correct. In fact, it woulddisserve the very policies of Hanover Shoe here because itwould result in the -- the monopolist not being responsible for the full value of the antitrust injury itinflicts. So there's no Illinois Brick problem here.And I think that's why my friends on the otherside in Verizon relied so much on Associated GeneralCounsel -- Associated General Contractors rather thanIllinois Brick. But, of course, all that case states, as-- as this Court made clear in Holmes, is a rule ofproximate cause.And remember the facts in Associated GeneralContractors. The allegation was that a landowner th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY pressured a contractor to hire non-union subcontractors,and as a result the union subcontractors had lessbusiness, and as a result, they had fewer employees, andas a result, the union had fewer dues to collect. And theCourt quite properly held that proximate causation can'tpossibly extend that far.QUESTION: Yes, but isn't there a proximatecause problem in this case too? You -- you represent aclass, I think. Your -- and is it not likely that the --there are many, many members of the class who havedifferent kinds of injuries from the other members of theclass? It's a little hard for me to understand preciselyhow the wrongdoing that affected AT&T necessarily carriesover to customers of AT&T.MR. VERRILLI: The means by which Verizon was trying to monopolize the market, as the complaint alleges-- and I think this is clear from paragraphs and and of the amended complaint -- was that it was -- Verizonwas using its control of the local loop that competitorsneeded to lease to get service going to degrade theservice that its competitors, including AT&T, were able toprovide to customers. That was the means by which the --the antitrust scheme was effectuated, and as a result --QUESTION: Well, are you -- are you allegingthat they not merely failed to perform their duties, but th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY they actually interfered with A&T's performance of its --MR. VERRILLI: Correct. QUESTION: -- retail obligation?MR. VERRILLI: I think -- you know, remember --QUESTION: Because that's a little differentfrom the way the court of appeals described the complaint.MR. VERRILLI: Well, I -- I understand it, YourHonor, but the -- but the complaint -- one of thedifficulties of this case, of course, is that we're hereon a complaint and the test under rule is a noticepleading test, and it can -- and the complaint can only bedismissed if there is no conceivable set of facts thatcould be proved consistent with the allegations in thecomplaint that would support relief. And --QUESTION: Yes, but you have to have alleged in your complaint just how it was that -- that Verizon'smisconduct hurt your clients.MR. VERRILLI: Yes, Your Honor, and I think the-- I think paragraph of the amended complaint says thatBell Atlantic deterred and will continue to deterpotential customers from switching to another company forlocal phone service or cause customers that switch back toBell Atlantic in frustration for the poor servicesrendered by their local phone service provider. There areother places in the complaint where it's specifically th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY alleged that the quality of service that AT&T customersget and other competitors' customers get is degraded incomparison to --QUESTION: Under the -- what bothers me aboutthe Illinois Brick problem is -- I completely agree withyour characterization, but the law would seem odd thatwould say when Smith, a price-fixing ring, charges Jones$ extra, we don't let Jones' customers sue for the actualovercharge he undoubtedly suffered. But in fact, whenSmith, the monopolist, drives Jones through predatorypricing out of the market, we let Jones' customers come inand say, oh, my service isn't as good, I -- I may -- Idon't know exactly. I might have switched. I -- I gotbad service, et cetera. You see how much more ephemeralthat is, how much more uncertain it is, how much more vague it is? And the more precise thing we don't let themrecover for. The more vague thing on your theory, whichis highly speculative, we will, on your view, let themrecover for.MR. VERRILLI: Well, I think it's the rightanswer to let them recover, and -- and it's notspeculative. They -- their -- the -- this conductdirectly raises the cost of -- and degrades the servicethat consumers in the market receive. And they areentitled under Reiter against Sonotone to sue for the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY damages that those occur.And it -- you know, Illinois Brick -- I'm nothere to defend the wisdom of Illinois Brick in the contextin which it exists, Justice Breyer, but it has beennarrowly confined to that context. And -- and if youdon't have an overcharge case, you don't have HanoverShoe. If you don't have Hanover Shoe, you don't haveIllinois Brick.QUESTION: The other thing on -- on the -- thatI had as a question on the merits of the complaint is I --I -- if this complaint had said that Verizon went to thecustomers who were trying to use AT&T and said, Mr.Customer, we're going to wreck your service unless you buyfrom us, or indeed carried that out in -- throughsurreptitious ways, but that's what he was saying. Youbuy from us or you'll be sorry. If that's what thecomplaint said, you might well have a complaint. But Idon't see that in the complaint. MR. VERRILLI: Well, under --QUESTION: Rather, what I see in the complaint-- and I want you to point out where it's the contrary --is that every claim of bad service is connected through abecause or some other word like that to the refusal ofVerizon to hook up AT&T, i.e., to provide them with theVerizon service so they can provide service to the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY customer.Now, I've read the complaint a few times, but Iwant you to point out to me the part that you think mostclearly contradicts what I just said.MR. VERRILLI: First, paragraph , which is atpage --QUESTION: is the overview.MR. VERRILLI: Yes, but what it says, JusticeBreyer, is that they degraded service. Well, the -- thedegraded service has to occur not only during the -- theprocess of switching over, but after the switching over,and of course, under Swierkiewicz and under Leatherman,the test here is whether there's any set of facts thatcould be proved consistent with these notice pleadingallegations that would support a cause of action. And Ithink Your Honor's question proves that there is, thefirst set of facts that Your Honor described. So --QUESTION: Well, I'm not with you completely forthe reason that the overview seems to be an overview whichis explicated by the specific complaints of exclusionaryconduct which appear later in the complaint.MR. VERRILLI: But I think those complaints arefairly construed to -- to include denial --QUESTION: And I would like you to point out.MR. VERRILLI: I think it's true about paragraph th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY . I think it's true about paragraph . I think thatthat is the essence of the complaint here. And of course,that makes sense because these are exactly the kinds ofallegations -- this is -- this is the way monopolizationoccurs. This is the way maintaining monopoly power occursin this -- in this arena. There's a long and unfortunatehistory that goes back to MCI against AT&T andcontinuing --QUESTION: All right. MR. VERRILLI: -- to this present day.QUESTION: Then with paragraph , which Ithought was the heart of the complaint, what it seems tosay at the end is when they did these bad things, theplain effect was that AT&T was prevented from offeringlocal phone service of the quality, as was offered by Bell, and thereby to impede the ability of AT&T tocompete. And so I took as being essentially acomplaint that AT&T is kept out of the market.MR. VERRILLI: Well, what it -- what it says --QUESTION: Yes.MR. VERRILLI: I -- I don't --QUESTION: If you don't, in other words, have anobligation to bring them into the market --MR. VERRILLI: Well, I think you do.QUESTION: -- under the antitrust laws, you th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY lose.MR. VERRILLI: I think -- well, I think you dohave an obligation under the antitrust laws, and I'll tryto get to that as fast as I can.QUESTION: If you don't --MR. VERRILLI: But --QUESTION: If you don't, do you lose?MR. VERRILLI: No, because this says --QUESTION: Where -- where are you reading from,Mr. Verrilli?MR. VERRILLI: I'm sorry, Mr. Chief Justice. It's at page of the joint appendix, paragraph of theamended complaint. What it alleges is that AT&T and othercompetitors weren't able to provide service at the -- at the level of quality -- provide service at the level ofquality that -- that Verizon could. It doesn't only saythat they weren't able to provide service at all. It saysboth of those things. And so I think the allegation isthere in , and I think the -- and it's described in the-- the overview, and . And paragraphs and of theamended complaint explains how it works.And I'd like to -- if I could, go to -- to thecore antitrust issue here. I think it is common groundwith my friends on the other side that a monopolist's th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY right to refuse to deal with competitors is not anunqualified right. They acknowledge one qualification. That's where the monopolist discriminates. They arguethat's the only time a section duty ought to be imposedbecause that -- in that situation you can be confidentthat it's anti-competitive conduct, and you won't haveproblems with dampening incentives and you won't haveadministrability problems because you can refer back tothe prior course of dealing.But where they're wrong is in suggesting thatthat's the only time that you can find liability undersection for monopolist refusal to cooperate with itsrivals. It is equally true in this case, in thissituation where, as Justice Kennedy, your question earlierindicated, there is a regulatory regime in place that requires competitive access on the part of the monopolistin order to bring competition into the market. And whatyou have -- and -- and I think these allegations areconsistent that -- what I am about to say is consistentwith the allegations in the complaint, and what you haveis a course of conduct on the part of the monopolist thatis intended to subvert the competitive entry that thoseregulations require. QUESTION: Well, you -- you say then that the act gives you affirmative momentum that you wouldn't th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY have with -- that you wouldn't have if it were just theantitrust laws? MR. VERRILLI: I wouldn't put it quite that way,Your Honor, but I -- and I will answer Your -- YourHonor's question directly. The -- the test, under theSherman Act, for exclusionary conduct applies in the sameway that -- it's the exact same test whether the ' actis there or not. The test is whether the conduct impairsrivals' opportunities to compete in the market and whetherthe -- the conduct does or does not further -- by themonopolist further competition on the merits.That test would apply to a different factualscenario after the act was passed than before. Andit's clear that that must be the case.For example, Your Honor, one thing that the act did -- this is section of the act, which I thinkis at page of the appendix to the petition -- iteliminated, preempted State monopoly franchises. Now,prior to passage of the act, if -- if Trinko went tosue -- bring a section claim against a local telephoneprovider in a State where -- where there was a monopolyfranchise law, Trinko would be out of court on the Stateaction doctrine. There would be an ironclad defense. Well, section of the act preempted the defense.So obviously in that situation, there is an th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY antitrust claim that wasn't there before, and so it can'tbe the case that what -- that -- that the passage of the act has no relevance whatsoever to the application ofsection of the Sherman Act. And indeed, we think itwould impermissibly -- it would violate the savings clauseand impermissibly modify the applicability of theantitrust laws to conclude that the act is the soleremedy here for a person in Trinko's position.QUESTION: Well, you're modifying it either way,aren't you? I mean, you're modifying it if you say soleremedy. You're modifying it if -- if it gives, in theChief Justice's words, momentum.MR. VERRILLI: I don't think so.QUESTION: It's modification either way.MR. VERRILLI: I don't think so, Justice Souter, because the -- the statute says that nothing shall modifythe -- modify, impair, or supersede the applicability ofthe antitrust laws.QUESTION: And the momentum theory, in effect,says the applicability is being modified because there's adeclaration of certain anti-competitive conduct.MR. VERRILLI: Well, I don't -- I don't thinkso. I think it -- the exact same test applies before theact was enacted and after, so it doesn't -- it doesn'tmodify the substantive antitrust rule one iota. What it th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY changes is the facts to which the rule applies. Now, inthis case it would not be true --QUESTION: But I thought you were invoking theact for the characterization of those facts as anti-competitive.MR. VERRILLI: Well, yes, in the followingsense, Justice Souter. But I don't think it constitutes amodification of the applicability of the antitrust laws. It might change the result under the antitrust laws, butnot modify the applicability because the general ruleunder the antitrust laws is that one takes the regulatorycontext into account, and the fact that conduct violatesextrinsic norms, and in particular, when it violates, asit did in MCI v. AT&T and in the Litton Systems case andthe court -- cases in the court of appeals, when it violates extrinsic norms that are designed to promotecompetition, that counts against the --QUESTION: Are -- are you saying that theTelecommunications Act imposes new duties and theviolation of those duties now becomes an antitrustviolation?MR. VERRILLI: No. That's --QUESTION: You want to talk about the -- about-- about the facts of -- of the -- of the market. Iunderstand that. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY MR. VERRILLI: They -- I --QUESTION: But it seemed to me the thrust ofJustice Souter's question as well was that theTelecommunications Act imposes new duties, and violationof those new duties is -- is really the gravamen of yourcomplaint.MR. VERRILLI: I don't think that -- I don'tthink that's quite right, Justice Kennedy, and let me tryto explain why.The test is whether the monopolist's conductprevents competition, obstructs competition, whether itdoes so on a basis other than competition on the merits,and whether it is -- there's otherwise a legitimatebusiness justification. That's the general rule, as theUnited States acknowledges at page of its complaint. That's the rule that was applied in Aspen, the rule thatwas applied in Kodak. That's the rule. That rule applies here. When one answers thefirst part of that test that -- which is does themonopolist's conduct obstruct competition, the -- the --it's not the case that any violation of the act wouldobstruct competition. What has to be shown there is thatthe monopolist's conduct is sufficiently grave,sufficiently serious, sufficiently sustained that it --that it amounts to an overall pattern that obstructs th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY competition. So it's not the case that there is a -- that-- that there's a -- an automatic transference of a -- ofa duty under the act into an antitrust duty.But where the -- where the act becomesrelevant is when you get to the next stage of the inquiry. And I think -- and it's just what Your Honor said earlier. At that stage in the inquiry, it is -- the monopolist doesnot have open to it the argument that this is pro-competitive behavior and that I have a legitimate businessjustification for it because in that circumstance, it isunlawful to do it. And so it can't be a legitimatebusiness justification to say I don't want to do somethingthat the law compels me to do because I'll be better offas a competitive matter if I don't do it. So it doesenter the analysis. It's not irrelevant by any means. But it doesn't transform or change in any way theantitrust standard.But it -- it does have this -- this additionaleffect --QUESTION: Or does it say we define pro-competitive in a -- in a new way based on theTelecommunications Act? The Telecommunications Act ispro-competitive.MR. VERRILLI: Well, I think -- I think it doessay that this is conduct that it -- that it -- I think you th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY can no longer say that it is -- that it is consistent withcompetition on the merits for a monopolist to refuse tocooperate when a law designed to promote competitioninsists on the cooperation. So I think in that way, Iagree with Your Honor, that's what's happening here.And then the other thing that's critical isthat --QUESTION: What is cooperation? I mean, the --the main obstacle in my mind to your argument is that ifwe accept your argument, it will be a violation of theantitrust law not to agree to interconnect with the newcompetitor coming in. Immediately it will be a questionof was that refusal reasonable or not. What were theterms? What were the pricing? What was the leasearrangement, et cetera? Because there's no way to know whether it's justified or not justified under the lawwithout going into those details. You and I both knowthat there have been opinions written in this Court thatjust skim the surface of the complexity of answering thatkind of question. And the main obstacle to your argument in mymind is it seems to be a question of whether thatincredibly complex question will be answered by aregulatory agency in a regulatory proceeding brought bycomplainants or by judges and juries in antitrust th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY cases throughout the country, each potentially reaching adifferent answer.MR. VERRILLI: I -- I disagree with that, YourHonor, and the reason why is this. Because I think thatquestion -- if I may say so, I think it picks up on what Ibelieve to be a false choice that my friends on the otherside are presenting, and that's a choice between, on theone hand, a -- a duty to deal relegated solely to thecircumstance of discrimination and, on the other hand, awholly unqualified duty to deal that -- that might raise alot of the problems that Your Honor has identified.But there's a middle ground here, and it's themiddle ground that I -- that I submit to Your Honor that-- that Professor Areeda identified in a article andthat makes a world of sense. And that is, when there is a regulatory regime in place that supplies the backgroundnorms, then the juries don't answer those questions. Thejuries decide something very different. What the jurieswill decide in that set of circumstances is whether theregulatory requirements have been violated or not, andthey'll also -- and -- and remember, many of theseregulatory requirements are contractual terms.QUESTION: And many of those regulatoryrequirements consist of something called TELRIC blankslate, which happened to cover, you know, an unbelievable th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY number of pages and I'm sure would come into the argumentabout whether the pricing condition is or is not areasonable one.MR. VERRILLI: I don't -- I don't think that'sright, Your Honor. I -- I think it is -- it's an obviousdefense in a case like this for -- for an incumbent tosay, well, I'm -- I'm in compliance with the law and I'min compliance with my contractual obligations. I thinkit's also a defense for an incumbent, as it was in the MCIv. --QUESTION: But does that go to the jury then? Well, I mean, so you say it's -- it's a -- a defense, butit's always going to be argued, no, you're in compliance;yes, I am in compliance.MR. VERRILLI: Yes. I -- I think the answer is if it can't be resolved on summary judgment -- of course,Matsushita says that summary judgment has a particularlyimportant role to play in antitrust cases, but if itcan't, then -- then it will go to the jury.But that's really not any different --QUESTION: Well, but then you have the jurydetermining whether -- whether TELRIC pricing is -- hasbeen properly applied or not. Don't you --MR. VERRILLI: No, I don't think you do becausethe way this is going to -- what we're talking about here, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY Your Honor, is -- is something very different. Theremight be a contractual provision, for example, that saysyou've got to cut over the loops from your own switchingsystem to our switching system within an average of days. Now, if a plaintiff were able to come into courtand show, well, you know, the contract says days, butactually it's taken them months and as a result, we'rebeing disabled, that's not anything different than what --what an antitrust court and what an antitrust jury isasked to decide in any case. These antitrust cases arecomplex. There's no getting around that. They -- but --but they go to a jury if there's a dispute of fact. There's no getting around that either. And this is nodifferent from any other one in those respects.QUESTION: You're saying only when the claim relates not to the refusal to interconnect, but to thefailure to provide adequate service after interconnectionpursuant to a contract.MR. VERRILLI: Well, I'm sorry, Your Honor. I-- I think there would be -- I think there would be claimsof both kinds possible certainly under the antitrust laws.QUESTION: Well, let's suppose it's a refusal tointerconnect. MR. VERRILLI: But the --QUESTION: The refusal to enter into a contract. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY MR. VERRILLI: That's also governed by the sameset of regulatory norms, and it takes away -- it --QUESTION: But in that case at least you'd haveto put to the jury the question of whether the refusal toenter into this contract was an unreasonable one, whichwould depend on these very subtle pricing determinations. MR. VERRILLI: I -- well, I think there might besome circumstances, Your Honor, in which it will be aharder case to make, and that might be a case where ajudge could appropriately say, it's too complicated, itcan't go to the jury, or might appropriately say, this isa matter for primary jurisdiction. But it is not a blackand white situation in which the -- the right answer hereis to cut off an antitrust remedy that Congress clearlyenvisioned when it enacted that savings clause. Congressenacted the savings clause to make clear that antitrustwas to operate in conjunction with the regulatory regimeshere, and with all due respect --QUESTION: Mr. Verrilli? QUESTION: Yes, but this is in some ways a sortof derivative cause of action that Trinko brings with --with the primary injured party probably being AT&T. Andso it is a concern when you address it in this context,isn't it?MR. VERRILLI: I think that it is a concern, but th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY it is not a concern that defeats standing for the reasonsI gave earlier, and it is a concern that can be overcomethrough the normal processes of discovery under theFederal rules. And -- and with respect to the -- to thesubstantive antitrust claim that's before the Court -- andin fact, the existence of the regulatory regime solves theproblems. It sets the benchmarks. It functions as abenchmark in just the same way that a prior course ofdealing would function as a benchmark in a discriminationcase, and --QUESTION: Mr. Verrilli, in attempting todetermine whether these two pieces of legislation operateon separate tracks, Telecommunications Act, section ,Judge Wood said one of the problems with reading the Telecommunications Act effectively into section is thatit then -- then section of the Sherman Act might eclipsethis elaborate regime that Congress set up because whywould any player want to use that mechanism instead ofcoming into court with the possibility of getting trebledamages. MR. VERRILLI: Well, I -- I think the answer is,Your Honor, because in -- in the absence of an effort by a-- an entity, a competitor, to use the mechanisms that theact put in place, then that -- in that situation, the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY entity doesn't have an antitrust claim where they couldshow exclusionary conduct based on subversion on theregulatory requirements and lack of a legitimate businessjustification based on refusal to abide by the regulatoryrequirements because they haven't invoked the regulatoryrequirements. QUESTION: But after because -- becausecertainly AT&T could go back to the regulator and say --MR. VERRILLI: Yes, Justice Ginsburg, that'sright, but that's a far -- but -- but I think that's a fardifferent situation from the one that Judge Wooddescribed. And I think it's important, criticallyimportant, here to understand where the regulators are onthat very question. The regulators don't think there'sinterference if there's mutual enforcement. It's notablethat the Federal Communications Commission is not on thebrief for the United States and the Federal TradeCommission today and that's because their position, whichis articulated in orders which we cite in the footnotepage of our brief, is that the duties that they impose,the -- the access duties and specific obligations, oughtto be enforced under the antitrust laws as well as underthe -- as well as under the Telecommunications Act andthat -- and that -- you know, the lessons of history arebehind that and the lessons of common sense are behind th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY that.The fact is that the regulatory regime that theFCC tried to put in place to bring long distancecompetition and to bring telephone equipment competitionwas insufficient, standing on its own with all of thoseregulatory mechanisms, to make that competition occur. That competition occurred only when vigorous antitrustenforcement was brought to bear in part to enforce thosevery regulatory requirements.And that makes a great deal of common sense, ofcourse, because the incumbents in this situation haveevery incentive in the world for this system not to workbecause they want to retain as many customers as they canand they want to make as much money as they can, and theyhave ample ability to do it. There's a thousand ways in which they could subvert this -- this regulatory regime by-- with -- with using low-level, low-intensityobstructionist conduct that history has shown is beyondthe power of the regulators to -- to capture and prevent.And that is why antitrust law needs to applyhere. It's why the FCC says it should apply. It's whythe States who have submitted a brief in support of ourposition on this said it should apply because that's theonly way, operating in tandem, that we're going to get tothe competition that Congress tried to bring about. And I th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY submit to this Court that is exactly why the savingsclause is in the act. Thank you. QUESTION: Thank you -- excuse me -- Mr.Verrilli.Mr. Taranto, you have minutes remaining.REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF RICHARD G. TARANTOON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERMR. TARANTO: Thank you, Your Honor. The words competition, obstruction ofcompetition, pro-competitive mask a fundamentaldistinction between the act and the Sherman Act. The' act creates competition. Section of the Sherman Acthas always gone no further than protecting independently-developed competition. The ' act is a comprehensive regime for policing the thousand ways, as Mr. Verrillisaid, in which the obligations to create competition mightbe violated.This complaint, if you look at the twoparagraphs that Mr. Verrilli cited, paragraph andparagraph , are all -- is all about helping to createcompetition. Paragraph says the conduct we complain ofis that Verizon was making it difficult to obtain full useof Verizon's local loops. There is no allegation ofobstruction of AT&T's independent efforts to create th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY seller/buyer transactions on its own without help.What we ask the Court to say on the merits hereis not that there is a rigid requirement of discriminationor anything else. What we ask the Court to recognize isthat up till now -- till now -- helping hand cases havebeen limited by the requirement of discrimination betweencustomers, not between self and others, but betweencustomers, and there are compellingly strong reasons notto expand section beyond that. For institutionalreasons, the antitrust courts are not capable of reliablymaking the necessary determinations and for fundamentalincentive reasons, the incentives of incumbents to invest,the incentives of rivals to invest rather than piggy-back.In this context, a common law-like context,there's no question of overriding preexisting, settled antitrust obligations. The question is should the Courtcreate something new. And in a common law-like area, theexistence of another regime is one strong reason not tocreate something new. The Court said so in the Black &Decker case only last term involving the common law ofERISA obligations when the Court said the scope ofpermissible judicial innovation is narrower where otherFederal actors are engaged. That's what we ask the Courtto decide, that the act is one compellingly goodreason not to create new section law here. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY Thank you. If the Court has no further --CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: Thank you, Mr.Taranto.The case is submitted.(Whereupon, at : a.m., the case in theabove-entitled matter was submitted.) th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY 