 IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES- - - - - - - - - - - - - -XSHAKUR MUHAMMAD, AKA JOHN E. MEASE, Petitioner :::v. : No. -MARK CLOSE :- - - - - - - - - - - - - -XWashington, D.C.Monday, December , The above-entitled matter came on for oralargument before the Supreme Court of the United States at: a.m.APPEARANCES:CORINNE BECKWITH, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf ofthe Petitioner.THOMAS L. CASEY, ESQ., Solicitor General, Lansing,Michigan; on behalf of the Respondent. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. C O N T E N T SORAL ARGUMENT OF CORINNE BECKWITH, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioner THOMAS L. CASEY, ESQ.On behalf of the Respondent REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OFCORINNE BECKWITH, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioner PAGE th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. P R O C E E D I N G S(: a.m.)CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: We'll hear argumentnow in No. -- it's -, Shakur Muhammad, also knownas John Mease v. Mark Close.Ms. Beckwith.ORAL ARGUMENT OF CORINNE BECKWITHON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERMS. BECKWITH: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice, andmay it please the Court:The petitioner in this case, Shakur Muhammad, isa state prisoner who has brought a civil rights actionalleging that a prison guard framed him on a falsedisciplinary charge in retaliation for his having exercised his constitutional right to seek redress in thecourts for this same prison guard's previous misconduct. For three reasons, this Court should not engraft onto thistype of Section claim a favorable terminationrequirement that would make this prisoner have to win hisclaim in another forum before he can seek his remedy inFederal court.First, the favorable termination requirement isa habeas protecting advice - device - that was borne ofthis Court's recognition that Congress would not havewanted a general civil rights action to be the vehicle for th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. undoing a state criminal judgment, particularly given themore specific habeas exhaustion requirement.Second, extending the favorable terminationrequirement beyond this original rationale lacks any basisin the statute's terms or history, and it's devoid of thekind of common law pedigree that might suggest Congressenvisioned a broader application to cases that do not looklike habeas cases in that they don't involve a direct oran indirect challenge to the fact or duration of custody.And finally, any remaining qualms aboutCongress' intent are resolved by the Prison LitigationReform Act, where, after carefully weighing the interestsof overburdened courts and of prison officials, Congressimposed an administrative exhaustion requirement, not a favorable termination requirement.QUESTION: But I don't understand this about thiscase. I'm having an awfully hard time understanding thiscase, and - and it seemed to me what had happened was thatthe - your client, who's certainly well represented, he issitting there at lunch and he makes some faces or gesturesand the prison guard then has him up for a couple ofcharges and he basically is acquitted of the more seriousone and they punish him for the more - less serious,threatening behavior, no, it's insolence or something likethat. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. He never says a word about retaliation, neversays a word about it. He never appeals, which he couldhave done, his conviction. He never says to the prisonauthorities, hey, throw this out. The whole thing wasbased on the guard's desire to retaliate. And nowsuddenly have his - not having done any of that, we're inFederal court, and the Federal magistrate says, you know,he has no evidence of retaliation, or at least not enough.And now we're up here arguing about Heck v.Humphrey, sort of like the Finnegan's Wake of the habeascorpus law, and I - I can't really understand how we evengot here. I - I don't understand why, if you're right,this isn't an unexhausted claim, or at least themagistrate said you don't - your client, unfortunately for him, has not enough evidence. How do we get into this?QUESTION: Well, I suppose one of the reasons yougot into it was that the Sixth Circuit said that you had -had to comply with Heck against Humphrey, and you didn'tagree with it.MS. BECKWITH: Well, that's right, and you know,this is undoubtedly a valid First Amendment retaliationclaim. The idea here is our - our client is saying, youknow, he - he made perfectly appropriate allegations inthe courts against this prison - this prison guard inprior lawsuits, and the guard set out to get him - th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. QUESTION: Can we reach this - I can't reach theSixth - the question that the circuit thought was here. Idon't see what we're supposed to say. What are wesupposed to say? That - that this unexhausted claim,nonetheless, in states a claim?MS. BECKWITH: It's not - I don't believe it's an-QUESTION: If I said what I said, is that correctwhat I've said?MS. BECKWITH: I don't think so, because it's notan unexhausted claim, and I believe the whole point ofthis case is the - is the misstatement of the law by theSixth Circuit that would deem this a non-civil rightsclaim, basically a habeas claim completely contrary to this Court's precedent in Preiser. We have, you know,Preiser v. Rodriguez, which set up the way, you know,followed up on by Heck v. Humphrey, the way that we decidewhich way these cases should go. Is this a civil rightsclaim? It should go through . Or is it somethingwe're worried might swallow the habeas exhaustionrequirement?QUESTION: Well, does the Heck Humphrey issuethat comes to us one that is affected by whether good-time credits are lost?MS. BECKWITH: The - whether good-time credits th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. are lost is a - is a consideration and whether this is afact or duration case.QUESTION: Right.MS. BECKWITH: And this case is nothing about -QUESTION: So after all the briefing, theadditional briefing that's gone on, do we know now forsure whether good-time credits are affected here?MS. BECKWITH: I think we do. The most importantpoint on that question, Justice O'Connor, is somethingthat I - a point I unfortunately made in a footnoteinstead of in the text, footnote on page of the yellowbrief, which I wish had been the first sentence of myissue in bold, and that point is that it doesn't matter,because we're not - no part of our constitutional claim challenges the insolence conviction.QUESTION: But is - is that really the point? It's not what you challenge, it's the implication of whatyou want to be held.MS. BECKWITH: It - that's right.QUESTION: And those are quite different things. I mean, if in fact good-time credits are lost, even thoughyou are not asking for any adjudication on good-timecredits, then it necessarily follows that the length ofthe sentence can be affected, and it necessarily followsthat at some point there could be a habeas claim because th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. the individual was not being released.MS. BECKWITH: That's right, but there's nothingabout this claim that would ever, you know, ever lead tothe result, under the test necessarily imply theinvalidity of the deprivation of good-time credits, which,by the way, I don't believe we were deprived of good-timecredits, because of the reasons I state in my brief. Ourclient is a habitual offender and this claim was notraised in the lower court but -QUESTION: Well, let - let's - could we just makea short excursus there? Assuming that no good-timecredits are lost with respect to the minimum sentence, thepoint of - determining the earliest point at which hecould be paroled, isn't it the case under state law that good-time credits still would be applied to the maximumsentence?MS. BECKWITH: That - that is true. I don'tbelieve that would ever -QUESTION: Then - then isn't that the end of yourargument -MS. BECKWITH: I don't think so.QUESTION: - because doesn't it - I mean, let mejust finish -MS. BECKWITH: Sure.QUESTION: - my - my question so you know where th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. I'm going. If - if - if the good-time credits would applyto the maximum sentence, then it seems to me that if he isnot released at the point at which he says he should beentitled to good-time credits, he's got a habeas claim.MS. BECKWITH: I don't think that - I think thatthat aspect of the claim, you know, aside from waiver andaside from not challenging the conviction that led to thegood-time credits, if they exist, is still not true, Idon't think. It - it's too hypothetical. Most of thesecases are like Preiser, where there would be immediaterelease. He has to serve his minimum sentence underMichigan law, so he's not ever going to get out earlierthan his minimum. He - those will not be shortened bygood-time credits.After that, he's going to see the parole boardseveral times. He's going to be years old when hehits his maximum sentence. The likelihood that he wouldactually not be dismissed until his maximum sentence, youknow, be discharged as opposed to paroled earlier thanthat and have his sentence terminated long before hismaximum, you know, just makes it impossible that thiswould be anything but hypothetical -QUESTION: Well, but for ease of judicialadministration, do we really want to have to look at howold he's going to be and all of these things? Is it not th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. possible to say at the end of the day, good-time creditsstill apply to the maximum, so you're out of here?MS. BECKWITH: Well, that may be true in anothercase, but it's not true in our case, because we're notchallenging, you know, nothing about our constitutionalclaim would necessarily imply the invalidity of thatinsolence conviction.QUESTION: Well, sticking with Justice O'Connor'squestion, suppose good-time credits were involved here,but insofar as the prisoner is concerned, it was whollyperipheral, and assume that the good-time credits wouldnot click into operation for another years. Would itmake sense for us to insist on Heck v. Humphrey in thosecircumstances?MS. BECKWITH: In - I mean, I think that - thatPreiser created a clean line, and this Court has decidedrepeatedly that good-time - the loss of good-time creditsfalls on the fact or duration side of that line, and Ithink it makes sense to continue to maintain that cleanline, and it's the kind of thing where good-time creditsare the hard case. There's -QUESTION: So you think it does - so you thinkthat if good-time credits were unequivocally involvedhere, that the Heck rule would apply?MS. BECKWITH: I don't - I - I think that's what th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. this Court's precedents would suggest. There might beroom for reconsideration of the good-time credits in thefuture when it - when it starts to get real hypotheticalor when there - if there might be some abuses, such asprison, you know, evidence that prisons were, you know,had the perverse incentive of tacking on good-time creditsto -QUESTION: Well, this is - this is very strangewhen we - when the original idea, I thought, of Heck wastyping the kind of claim. I think the Court said in thatcase, this is not a prison condition case like my dietarylaw is not observed, am I not getting medical treatment,but it - it is like - there was an analogy to maliciousprosecution, and here this has the same flavor, that this is - the complaint is that this guard had it in for me,and there were trumped up charges.And the way you get around - would you sayyou're not really attacking the insolence, what he - hewas convicted, so you're only concerned with the six dayspre-hearing detention, but I don't see how you can, in allcandor, chop up your complaint that way, because if theofficer hadn't been retaliatory, the officer wouldn't haveconfronted him in the first place, he wouldn't have beeninsolent, and nothing would happen. So how you can sayis, well, we'll accept the insolence but really we don't th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. because this is a retaliation and there never would havebeen any charge at all.MS. BECKWITH: Well, I - that's - part - alongthe lines of the argument the respondent makes in tryingto use a - sort of a but-for kind of take, or test, or arelevance kind of test, but that is not the test. Thetest is whether the claim, the constitutional claim, wouldnecessarily imply the invalidity of the conviction orsentence -QUESTION: I - I thought your response to thatwas that provocation was no defense to the charge -MS. BECKWITH: That's right.QUESTION: - to the charge of insolence.MS. BECKWITH: The respondent is - is arguing that - that it goes to credibility. Credibility is notenough. That's about relevance or admissibility.QUESTION: But is not your position, and I don'tknow that the other side has contested it, thatprovocation would not have been a defense to the charge ofinsolence?MS. BECKWITH: That's right. There's no -QUESTION: And therefore, your provocation claimdoes not invalidate the insolence conviction.MS. BECKWITH: There's - there's - that'scorrect, Justice Scalia. There's no way of litigating - th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. QUESTION: How - how do I decide that, becausethat, it seems to me, is why I kept thinking I'm havingtrouble with this case? MS. BECKWITH: Well -QUESTION: It is inconceivable to me that underany law of any place that if a guard has gone and broughtthis whole thing about as a way of retaliating against aFirst Amendment right, I can't imagine a tribunal thatwouldn't throw out the whole thing. I mean, I know yousay, oh no, that isn't what they would have done. If hehad gone to that disciplinary body and it said, look, Ihave proof here that this is total fake by the guard inretaliation for my First Amendment right, what that bodywould have said is, we convict you still of insolence but not of the greater charge.That to me is inconceivable, but whether that'sso or not is a pure matter of state law, and - and itseems to me that this case then turns on a pure matter ofstate law, because I think if it is totally separate maybeyou're right. If it isn't totally separate, I don't seehow you could be right.MS. BECKWITH: And it is. I have several answerthat. It is totally separate. You - you can't litigatethe retaliation claim in - in a - in a prison misconducthearing, just as Rodney King couldn't - th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. QUESTION: You couldn't - you couldn't say,hearing examiner in the prison, I want to tell yousomething. The guard's doing this because I filed someearlier claims against him. What - what would be so hardabout doing that?MS. BECKWITH: In fact, we actually - the hearingofficer himself, in his deposition, which is at jointappendix to , indicates he - he - retaliation wasnot a defense. It might go to credibility, but he can'tconsider that -QUESTION: No, but that's a - that's an issue offact. And the thing that's bothering Justice Breyer isthe same thing that's bothering me, and that is it seems a- it seems like a very strange statement of law to say that there would be no retaliation defense, and if - andyet it seems to me you've got to say that in order toavoid Heck and Humphrey. So what's your basis for sayingit? Do you have -MS. BECKWITH: It's -QUESTION: - any state law authority for sayingthat so that we could make that assumption that you arecorrect in your statement when we decide this case?MS. BECKWITH: To tell you the truth, I justassumed it as - as a logical matter. It's like, as I wassaying before, Rodney - th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. QUESTION: You assumed that in - in the - in thedisciplinary proceeding for - that, let's say, in adisciplinary proceeding for insolence, he would not be -the prisoner would not have the opportunity of saying, hegot me into this situation in retaliation for filing theseactions? You just assumed that?MS. BECKWITH: Right. It's just like assault ona police officer. If you're arrested because you're blackand then you assault that police officer, you - you know,your - your claim on the illegal arrest is not, youknow, it's - it's separate and apart from -QUESTION: But we're talking here aboutinsolence. I mean, he gave him a dirty look or somethingor other.MS. BECKWITH: The - the hearing officer himselfsaid that -QUESTION: Well, is there any state law authoritythat we could look to?MS. BECKWITH: I'm not aware of any and I'm sorrythat I -QUESTION: Well, it doesn't seem unreasonable tome. A police officer who's charged with a civil rightsviolation for - for whacking a demonstrator cannot please- plead as a defense, I was provoked. Doesn't matter ifyou're provoked, you're not supposed to do - do the act, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. and I don't know why it would be any different with - witha prison inmate if - if he was provoked -QUESTION: But he doesn't admit that.QUESTION: - to resist the provocation. MS. BECKWITH: And in any event -QUESTION: What's so unreasonable about that?MS. BECKWITH: - I think that what - whether wechallenge the - the misconduct - the result of themisconduct proceeding in this case is really not relevantbecause -QUESTION: Well, his - his complaint doesn't saythe kind of thing you just said. I think his complaintsays, I'm sitting there, the officer made some faces,lured me into this whole thing, and then what he charged me with was false. So I - I didn't see - it's whatJustice Ginsburg, I think, was talking about at thebeginning. I'm just - maybe you have nothing else to sayon it, but I saw this being chopped up. I saw oneincident, it being chopped up as if there were severalthings, one insolence, one threatening behavior, and thenseparating that out, and I got totally confused about theHeck v. Humphrey part, the exhaustion part -MS. BECKWITH: The - the complaint is very clear. I mean, the gist - the most tangible part of - of thecomplaint is that I was overcharged, you know, and I had th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. to do pre-hearing detention, six days in pre-hearingdetention that I would not otherwise have had to dobecause this guard was retaliating against me for suinghim, for exercising -QUESTION: This is the amended complaint. It wasnot his original complaint, and one of the many puzzlingfeatures in this case is the Sixth Circuit is addressingthe original complaint, where this man says, I want thewhole thing expunged, not that, yes, I was insolent, but Iwasn't engaged in threatening behavior. The initialcomplaint said, this officer retaliated against me, thewhole thing is no good, court, expunge the discipline. And it was only in the amended complaint that they came upwith this theory, oh, insolence was all right, and the only thing that we're attacking is the threateningbehavior.MS. BECKWITH: Well, the two complaints areactually very similar, maybe identical, except for the -removing the request for expungement. And, of course, theSixth Circuit's -QUESTION: Well, isn't that a rather significantdifference, because that says the whole thing is no good,the insolence is no better than the threatening, the wholething is no good?MS. BECKWITH: Mr. Muhammad was - was not th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. represented by counsel. He was - he was working pro se,and he amended his complaint. The amended complaint wasaccepted and that's - that's the complaint that's - that'sbefore -QUESTION: But that's not what - that isn't thecomplaint that was before the Sixth Circuit, so at aminimum, shouldn't we send it back to the Sixth Circuit -MS. BECKWITH: No.QUESTION: - and say, look, you looked at thewrong complaint?MS. BECKWITH: Well, it was the complaint thatwas before the Sixth Circuit. They just made a factualerror, and I think both parties agree it was a factual error, but it's one that didn't matter.QUESTION: Nonetheless, they ruled on a complaintthat is not the one he was complaining about.MS. BECKWITH: But - but it doesn't matter,because they relied on Huey v. Stine and the case law inthe Sixth Circuit. It wouldn't matter whether you askedfor expungement or not if you are challenging the result,which the Sixth Circuit thought -QUESTION: Excuse me. All of this is relevantwhy? Because of the issue of whether he's lost any good-time credit, isn't that right? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. MS. BECKWITH: I don't -QUESTION: Wasn't that issue waived by the otherside and wasn't - wasn't there a finding? As I understandit, there was a finding by a - by the magistrate thatplaintiff is no longer in the more restrictive custody oftoplock or administrative segregation, nor in the moreextended custody that would still faced him had he lostany good-time credit, and an issue was never made by theother side as I understand it, nor before the SixthCircuit, that he had lost any - any good-time credit. AmI wrong in that?MS. BECKWITH: That's absolutely right. Theissue wasn't presented -QUESTION: So it's waived. Why should we get into that here?MS. BECKWITH: Right. And if - but if -QUESTION: Especially having granted cert on a -on - on a significant question, to which that - that is -is preliminary.MS. BECKWITH: That's correct, Justice Scalia,and if good-time credits are not at issue, it doesn'tmatter if we're challenging the insolence conviction,because nothing about this claim is going to affect thefact or duration of - of confinement, so that, you know - th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. QUESTION: Though the state does dispute you onthe good-time credit, does it not?MS. BECKWITH: The state does dispute. You know,I think they're wrong for four reasons.QUESTION: But too late, but too late. Isn'tthat your point? They dispute you, but too late.MS. BECKWITH: That is my point. I mean, that ismy best point. My second best point -QUESTION: Okay. If you're right on that point,then it's the easiest case ever, you're obviously right. If it has nothing to do with good-time credit -MS. BECKWITH: Well -QUESTION: - if you can chop up the - the actionin that way, if all you're complaining about is six days that he spent in pre-trial detention and your winning onthat would have nothing to do with anything else, wouldnot set aside the rest of the - of the loss of good timeor anything else, then you're obviously right.MS. BECKWITH: That's right.QUESTION: That's what she says.(Laughter.)QUESTION: Why is it an issue for us?MS. BECKWITH: I agree. It's an issue becausethe respondent is trying to push the test of, you know, ofHeck v. Humphrey into the context of misconduct th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. proceedings, regardless of the punishment imposed. Theysay even -QUESTION: You don't - you don't say that Heckagainst Humphrey should never apply to misconductproceedings, do you?MS. BECKWITH: No.QUESTION: You just say it shouldn't have -MS. BECKWITH: As in Edwards, it shoulddefinitely apply when good-time credits are lost orsomething else happens, you know, in the proceeding. Ican't imagine what besides good-time credits, but if factor duration is affected - in this case, fact or durationwas not affected. This is a classic civil rights claim. We're talking about the First Amendment. It could havebeen about religion. It could have been about race.QUESTION: Know what is very strange about thiscase is you've got these two threshold requirements. Ifit's a habeas line, then you can't skirt exhausting statejudicial remedies. If it's a prison condition case, thenyou have the PLRA, you have to exhaust the internalremedies. Here, you didn't do either. I mean, if youtake it on your case, this is really in the prisonconditions line. You didn't even appeal internally.MS. BECKWITH: But that's - that's not at issuein this case. The - the respondent complained in the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. courts below about exhaustion. It was considered by thelower court. The respondent said, you didn't seekrehearing, and the magistrate judge said, I disagree withyou, he didn't have to seek rehearing because he's notcomplaining about the insolence -QUESTION: But, nonetheless, you are saying thatthis is a case that can go into court under eventhough there was - it's not on the habeas side so youdon't have to exhaust the judicial remedies. It's not onthe prison conditions side and you don't have to - youdon't have to exhaust internal administrative remedies.MS. BECKWITH: Justice Ginsburg, I absolutelydisagree. He did exhaust. This was a question -QUESTION: What did he exhaust?MS. BECKWITH: He - he did everything he neededto do. The magistrate judge held that and the districtjudge affirmed that and it wasn't appealed -QUESTION: Where? Because it seems to me that hedidn't. He didn't ask for anything.MS. BECKWITH: In -QUESTION: He said - and he said, indeed, I'm notchallenging, I'm not challenging the insolence conviction.MS. BECKWITH: Record , the district courtrecord in , unfortunately it's not in the joint appendixat - at to - pages to , the magistrate held that th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. Mr. Muhammad exhausted, without seeking rehearing heexhausted. And there was also a -QUESTION: But can you tell me exactly what thatwas, because I don't see how he - he had?MS. BECKWITH: Well, the -QUESTION: He might have said he didn't need toexhaust.MS. BECKWITH: No, the - the - the governmentfiled a brief, a motion to dismiss, saying, you know, manythings, but one of the things was he didn't exhaust hisadministrative remedies and they said because he didn'tseek rehearing, respondent, or the - Mr. Muhammadresponded, I didn't have to seek rehearing because I'm notcomplaining about the insolence. I agree I'm guilty of insolence. And the magistrate agreed. That's the end ofexhaustion.QUESTION: Exactly. But did he exhaustadministrative remedies for what he's complaining abouthere, which is -MS. BECKWITH: Right. There was no -QUESTION: - which is not the insolenceconviction, but rather the sixth - the six day lockdown orwhatever he had pending the hearing on the higher charge.MS. BECKWITH: As far as we know, he exhaustedeverything that he needed to exhaust. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. QUESTION: Well, how - how could that be,because -MS. BECKWITH: The government -QUESTION: I know they said that, and that's oneof the reasons I'm having difficulty. You would havethought that if he was retaliated against, he would havesaid to the hearing examiner, I was retaliated against me,the whole thing is no good, I had six days that I spent,at least deduct the six days from the seven daysadditional punishment you're giving me. He didn't saythat. Nobody knew a thing about it. He didn't ask for arehearing. He didn't ask a judge - I mean -MS. BECKWITH: I -QUESTION: - what I'm worried about is writing an opinion in this that says you're completely right, and inthe course of doing that by every assumption I have tomake, so mixing up the law that nobody can understand whatit is.MS. BECKWITH: I understand. There - there's nodoubt that the PLRA requires exhaustion of administrativeremedies. It's not at issue in this case. It's notjurisdictional. Every circuit court to consider the issuehas said it's not jurisdictional. The government raisedthe - the question. The lower court considered it. They- they ruled in our favor. It's not a part of this case th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. anymore.QUESTION: Was it raised on appeal?MS. BECKWITH: It was not raised on appeal.QUESTION: Was it raised in the brief inopposition?MS. BECKWITH: In - in cert?QUESTION: To the petition for cert?MS. BECKWITH: No.QUESTION: Not the state, from the district courtor the court of appeals?MS. BECKWITH: That's right, but it was not partof - of the government's response, failure to exhaust. Itwas decided in the lower court. It's - it's over.QUESTION: Is - is it clear that the wrong of which he's complain - complains - is one of the wrongs setforth in the Prison Litigation Reform Act, or is this - isthis some -MS. BECKWITH: Yes. And in fact, that - that'sone of our arguments that the Prison Litigation Reform Actreaffirms the - the clean line that was created inPreiser. You have fact or duration claims and you haveconditions claims, Prison Litigation Reform Act, in - increating an exhaust - an administrative exhaustionrequirement for conditions claims, you know, indicatesthat this is the kind of claim that needs to exhaust. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. QUESTION: If he had been charged initially justwith insolence instead of threatening behavior, that isbondable, but that doesn't mean that he would have beenbonded, right? That's a discretionary determination.MS. BECKWITH: That's right.QUESTION: So it might have been the very samething. The officer might have said, this is a bad guy,don't let him out until after the hearing. So, in onecase, he can't get out because it's mandatory pre-trialdetention. In the other - so this case is not about hehad a right to be free, or free in the prison populationthose six days, but he could have argued that he shouldhave been not locked up. Is that's what the - that's thewhole thing that this case is about, right?MS. BECKWITH: I mean, his - his claim is a FirstAmendment retaliation claim. The damages are this, youknow, the chilling effect, the six days of pre-hearingdetention, but that's just a remedial question. The claimis a valid one.QUESTION: I thought he's suing for damages andthat's the only thing he's suing for, not injunctive,nothing else. All he wants is money.MS. BECKWITH: That's right. That's right.QUESTION: And what he wants money is for the sixdays that he might have spent anyway. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. MS. BECKWITH: He wouldn't have spent it anyway,and you can see from the joint appendix at page , creditwas not given -QUESTION: No, I'm not talking about - it'sbondable. There's nothing that shows that if the chargehad simply been insolence they wouldn't have held him forthe six days. He wasn't entitled not to be held.MS. BECKWITH: That's purely speculative and amatter of remedy, not - not the right. Mr. Chief Justice,if I may reserve the balance of my time.QUESTION: Very well, Ms. Beckwith.Mr. Casey, we'll hear from you.ORAL ARGUMENT OF THOMAS L. CASEYON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTMR. CASEY: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it pleasethe Court:I agree this is a very confusing case. Webelieve there are several reasons why summary judgmentshould be affirmed. The first is that because Mr.Muhammad did lose good-time credits, and because thenature of his challenge necessarily implies the invalidityof his misconduct determination, we think this case iscontrolled by Edwards v. Balisok.QUESTION: Why didn't you waive the question ofgood-time credits? I mean, why - you - you heard the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. discussion before.MR. CASEY: Yes.QUESTION: Why - why is this something we shouldconsider?MR. CASEY: First of all, we believe it's - it'sa matter of straightforward statutory - not eveninterpretation, just reading the text of the Michiganstatutes on good time, so it's not some fact issue that -that can be waived. Secondly -QUESTION: Excuse me? Only fact issues can be -legal issues can't be waived?MR. CASEY: No, it's not a legal argument. Thisis a straightforward - a straightforward application ofthe statutory language that says he did lose good time. QUESTION: You did not - did you make the pointbelow that the other side has to lose because he lostgood-time credit?MR. CASEY: In our first motion for summaryjudgment, which was in , we argued that Heck andEdwards controlled the case, that he was in effectchallenging his good - or his misconduct hearingdetermination. The magistrate of the district courtdenied that motion, saying he is not challenging hismisconduct. They agreed with his theory that this was astand-alone retaliation case. So nobody - neither party th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. nor the district court nor the Sixth Circuit got into thefine points of the argument about whether this was aduration case or a conditions case.QUESTION: Then why isn't it waived?MR. CASEY: Well, we submit it's - it's astraightforward matter. It appears that the magistrate,in his opinion or his recommendation denying our motionfor summary judgment, was under the impression he did notlose good time.QUESTION: Okay. And let's assume the magistratewas wrong. As I understand it, you did not go to thedistrict court and say, the magistrate is wrong on thispoint and this point can be dispositive under Heck. Am Icorrect?MR. CASEY: We did not argue it in those terms. We argued, as I say, the broader application of Heck andEdwards to the effect that he was - the nature of hischallenge necessarily implied that his -QUESTION: But your position - your position as Iunderstand was that even if he did not lose any good-timecredits, that you - nevertheless, Heck controls.MR. CASEY: Yes.QUESTION: And that's the question -QUESTION: And that's what -QUESTION: - on which we granted certiorari. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. That's the question we - whether a plaintiff who wishes tobring a suit challenging only the conditions ratherthan the fact or duration of his confinement must satisfyHeck v. Humphrey. Now, that question is not in the case,if indeed the duration of his confinement is what isaffected. And did you respond in the brief in oppositionby saying, actually, this question is not even in thecase?MR. CASEY: Yes. We -QUESTION: But even if you did, it's not in thecase, none of it's in the case on the assumption yourcolleague there was making, or your opponent. Imaginethat Mr. Muhammad wins his claim in the action, whichthe fact that they thought didn't have enough evidence suggests he wouldn't, but suppose he did. Then he says,what I've showed was illegal under the Constitution orwhatever, was, by being put in confinement for six daysbefore my hearing, and my being charged with threateningbehavior, that's it, that's all. The rest of it is allbeside the point. I don't complain about my insolence. Idon't complain about the seven days. I don't complainabout the loss of good time. I don't complain aboutanything except the six pre-hearing days and the laterdropped charge of threatening.So, if he's right about that, if you can do th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. that, if in fact his winning on that in no way calls intoquestion the conviction or the loss of good time or theseven later days for insolence, then under Heck, of coursehe can bring it.MR. CASEY: Yes, that - that's correct. Heck -the favorable termination requirement of Heck only applieswhen the nature of the challenge necessarily implies -QUESTION: Fine. So now I've got to the pointthat either she's obviously right or you're obviouslyright, and what it depends upon is a matter of state law,which is whether, as a matter of state law, should he winthis claim, it is true that his showing the retaliation inrespect to the six previous days and threatening in no waycalls into question the validity of the insolence conviction, the seven days, and the loss of good time. SoI say, what is the answer to that question of state law? Or a sister concluded - it's fairly obvious under the lawthat they are separate. Now what do you conclude?MR. CASEY: We argue that they are not separate,that the nature of this challenge does in fact necessarilyimply the invalidity of his misconduct determination. What he's challenging in this Federal lawsuit isretaliatory disciplinary action. That - that's thelanguage that he used in his amended complaint. What he'ssaying is that the guard acted with an improper motive and th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. that these adverse consequences flowed from that. Theonly adverse consequences that he's alleging are involvedin the misconduct hearing. So we don't think that thefact that he was found guilty of insolence and notthreatening behavior has any bearing at all on thisquestion. It was one incident, one charge that thisparticular hearing officer felt should be reduced to alower charge, but the nature of his challenge, if - if Mr.Muhammad is correct that this guard actedunconstitutionally, there should not have been anymisconduct charges, should not have been a hearing, shouldnot have been any pre-hearing detention or post-hearingpunishment.QUESTION: Is - is - is that so? You - you think it, as a matter of constitutional law, you - you could not- you could not say that a prisoner has no right tothreaten a guard even if he - even if he claims to havebeen provoked or has no right to insolent behavior even ifhe claims to have been provoked? As a matter ofconstitutional law, the prison cannot have such rules?MR. CASEY: The Heck v. Humphrey analysis saysthat there were certain claims that are not cognizable ona money damage action under . Our argument is this issuch a claim. If a punishment imposed affects theduration of confinement, the loss of good time, then under th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. Edwards v. Balisok, termination requires -QUESTION: I'm saying it - it does not affect itif he would have been convicted anyway, and the contentionof the other side is that he was guilty of the offense,both the major offense, if he had been guilty of that, andthe minor offense, regardless of whether there wasprovocation on the part of the guard.MR. CASEY: Correct. That - that's his claim. Our argument is that -QUESTION: Well, why - why do you - why do youassert the opposite?MR. CASEY: Well, that - that implicates theelements of the common law tort of malicious prosecution,as discussed in Heck and Edwards, and those elements include favorable termination and probable cause.QUESTION: But I think what you're not - it isn'tthe issue of whether provocation is a defense to a chargeof insolence. I thought what you were saying is that thiswhole string never would have happened, nothing would havehappened. If he - if he establishes the retaliation, thennone of this would have happened, and it's just oneepisode.MR. CASEY: Well, if - if he's correct that thisretaliation is independent of the hearing process, that's- that's his argument. Our argument is that the only th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. thing he's complaining about is the retaliatory action,and the retaliatory action was charging him withmisconduct. He -QUESTION: Is not - not retaliation separate inthe hearing process. You're saying, is his point thatwhen the guard looked at him from outside the cafeteriaand made faces at him, and then he came in, and then theprisoner stands up and gives him some very dirty looks,according to the guard. Now, if you can separate outthere the retaliation, if you can separate out there whatthe guard did by way of retaliation, making some very badfaces through the window, and insolence under state law,which would exist even if the guard were badly motivatedin making the bad faces, then you've got your two separate things.MR. CASEY: Under Sixth Circuit law, to establisha claim for retaliation, there has to be protectiveconduct that the inmate engaged in and there has to beadverse action taken against that plaintiff that woulddeter a person of ordinary firmness from continuing toengage -QUESTION: Fine. And the - and the conduct -MR. CASEY: But that's -QUESTION: - of the prisoner that's retaliationis that - that - has to do with that - th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. MR. CASEY: No, conduct of the guard.QUESTION: - would be his threatening look, butnot his insolent look.MR. CASEY: If this situation had proceededexactly as petitioner alleges up to the point where theywere nose to nose for a few seconds and then they had bothwalked away, there would be no retaliation claim, therewould be no constitutional violation at all. The onlything that gives rise to a constitutional right is theadverse action of charging him with misconduct. That'swhy we say that this charge is necessarily implicated inthe hearing process. It necessary - necessarilyimplicates that his misconduct determination is invalid. If he's right that there should have been no charge at all, if he's right on that, then the Heck v.Humphrey analysis doesn't even come into play. We thinkhe's wrong on that. The - the district court felt he wasright on that and - and ruled against us on our Heck v.Humphrey motion. The Sixth Circuit in effect said we wereright on that, that the nature of this challenge doesimplicate the hearing process, and under Sixth Circuitprecedent, they said, therefore, it falls.QUESTION: But the Sixth Circuit was addressing acomplaint that looked like it was attacking the wholething, because it asked for expungement of the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. disciplinary - of the disciplinary action. Why didn't youcall to the - or whoever was representing Michigan at thatstage - call to the attention of the Sixth Circuit that ithad addressed the wrong complaint?MR. CASEY: The Sixth Circuit issued its order. The petitioner filed a motion for rehearing. Under thecourt rules, we're not permitted to respond to that, butour argument is that even though the Sixth Circuit -QUESTION: You could have made a motion to remandor something.MR. CASEY: We could have, but we did not. Inretrospect, I wish many things had been done differentlyin this case.QUESTION: Well, do you aggrieve, looking at the Sixth Circuit opinion, that it was examining the originalcomplaint, not the amended complaint?MR. CASEY: It referred to the originalcomplaint, but the - the holding of the Sixth Circuit onpage of the joint appendix, they say in an earlierSixth Circuit case, and they quote it, in order to grantthe plaintiff in this case the release he - relief heseeks, we would have to unwind the judgment of the stateagency. That is the basis on which they affirmed thejudgment.QUESTION: I thought you agreed that the Sixth th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. Circuit was looking at the initial, original complaint,not the amended.MR. CASEY: That they - they mentioned theinitial complaint and not the amended complaint. That'scorrect.QUESTION: Yeah.MR. CASEY: But we believe that the rationalethat they used, that his challenge did implicate thevalidity of his misconduct hearing, is correct on both hisoriginal complaint and his amended complaint.QUESTION: May I ask you a hypothetical question? Assume we had the case with the same facts except theremedy a different - if the, say the prison authoritieshad said you can't use your television set for days and that was the only remedy and otherwise everything else wasthe same, and he said it was - they did that inretaliation because I exercised my First Amendment rights. If that were the discipline, would Heck v. Humphreypreclude relief in this case?MR. CASEY: Yes, we believe - that's the questionthe Court granted cert on. If a punishment affects onlyconditions -QUESTION: And that's the one we probably oughtto hear some argument about.MR. CASEY: That's - that's correct. I - I th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. agree, Your Honor. We argue that -QUESTION: And why would it preclude relief inthat case? That's what I'd be interested in hearing.MR. CASEY: Because as in the Edwards v. Balisokand - and Heck v. Humphrey, the proper method of analysisis to look to the most closely analogous common law tort,look to traditions of common law, public policyconsiderations in light of the purposes of Section . In Heck v. Humphrey and Edwards v. Balisok, the Courtsaid, in the prison context - prison disciplinary context,the favorable termination requirement applies. On thefacts of those cases, there was good time involved, soduration -QUESTION: More than the facts of the case, we -the reason we - we - we adopted that common law rule wasto prevent a collision between and habeas corpus lawand prevent from being used as an end-run aroundhabeas corpus limitations.MR. CASEY: Again, on - on the facts of the case,that's - that was the situation presented, because in thatcase there was a collision between the habeas statutes andthe -QUESTION: And that collision was - was in thereasoning of the Court. It isn't -MR. CASEY: Yes, it was. But additional th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. reasoning was based on common law traditions and we arguethat that same rationale applies even if good time is notinvolved, even if it's just conditions of confinement aspunishment.QUESTION: So that even if setting a - a rulingin favor of the plaintiff would not in any way call intoquestion the prison disciplinary proceeding, it stillshould - Heck should still apply?MR. CASEY: No. If - if the nature of thechallenge does not imply that the misconduct determinationis invalid, then the Heck v. Humphrey analysis doesn'tapply. It's not analogous to the common law tort ofmalicious prosecution. We don't assert that the favorabletermination requirement applies to all conditions cases. We say it only applies when a claim for money damages isattempted which - the nature of which necessarily impliesthat the misconduct hearing is invalid.QUESTION: Well, it looked like the Sixth Circuitis on the short side of a five-to-one split among thecourts of appeals on how Heck v. Humphrey is to beapplied, that the Sixth Circuit views it differently thanthe other circuits that have addressed it.MR. CASEY: I believe that's correct.QUESTION: Do you agree?MR. CASEY: I believe that's correct. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. QUESTION: Yeah, based on -QUESTION: How - how is -QUESTION: - its own Huey decision, and I reallythought very likely that was why this Court granted certhere, to see whether the Sixth Circuit rule is out of stepwith what we said in Heck v. Humphrey.MR. CASEY: The Sixth Circuit, and all of thecourt of appeals' decisions that have attempted to applythe Heck v. Humphrey analysis to conditions cases, arenecessarily involved in - in extension of the Heckrationale to this other factual context, because Heck andEdwards involved good-time losses. I agree that's - weassume that's why the Court took the case. When we filedour brief in opposition, we suggested that there are these alternative reasons why the Court should not grant cert. One of them was the loss - that he did in fact lose goodtime, but -QUESTION: But, of course, that conceivably waswaived, because you didn't get into it below. If we - ifwe disregard that and think that you waived this issue ofgood-time credits, and if we reach the merits on which Iassumed we granted the case, then what justifies the SixthCircuit rule? Do you say just because damages potentiallyare at issue that the claim can't go forward?MR. CASEY: A - a claim for damages cannot go th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. forward unless there's favorable termination. If hisclaim was for an injunction changing the hearingprocedures somehow, as in Edwards, that type of claimcould go forward.QUESTION: I don't see the difference in theSixth Circuit rule anymore. What - in what respect is itin the minority? I thought you were reading now, as Iheard you, the last or the next to last sentence in theopinion -MR. CASEY: That's - that's correct.QUESTION: - that the Sixth Circuit simplythought that if this individual wins, if Mr. Muhammadwins, they would have to unwind the entire judgment of thehearing, which would include the judgment having to do with insolence.MR. CASEY: That's correct.QUESTION: And so if that's what they base it on-MR. CASEY: That's correct.QUESTION: - is their rule different from that ofany other circuit?MR. CASEY: The way the Sixth Circuit isdifferent from most of the other circuits is that theyapply the Heck v. Humphrey analysis to punishments ofconditions and not just to punishments affecting the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. duration of confinement.QUESTION: What is the condition -QUESTION: They meaning the Sixth Circuit?MR. CASEY: The Sixth Circuit applies it toconditions, punishments, and duration punishments.MR. CASEY: What do you mean by a conditionspunishment?QUESTION: The - the punishments that Mr.Muhammad received were the loss of good time, confinementto administrative segregation, essentially remaining inhis cell, plus loss of privileges for days. So only theloss of good time affects the duration of his sentence -QUESTION: Thus, only the loss of good time couldhave been challenged in habeas?MR. CASEY: Correct.QUESTION: And the conditions couldn't have beenchallenged in habeas?MR. CASEY: Correct.QUESTION: And that's the distinction -MR. CASEY: The distinction in this case -QUESTION: - that the other circuits think iscrucial?MR. CASEY: Correct. In - in conditionschallenges, habeas corpus relief is not available, sothere will be no other Federal court remedy if a Federal th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. civil rights action is not available.QUESTION: And it - it's your position that thereshould be no remedy whatever for this person?MR. CASEY: It's our position that if he is -QUESTION: If - if - we're disregarding the good-time credits. That's waived, that's out of here. Let'sjust make that assumption. And you say that he's out ofluck on pursuing any remedy for anything else?MR. CASEY: Prisoners who seek to challenge thenature of their complaint seeks to challenge or call into- whose challenges necessarily imply that a prisonmisconduct is invalid, do not have a Federal Civil RightsAct cause of action, whether it - whether the punishment -QUESTION: And other circuits disagree. They saythat in this case it would relate to conditions, andtherefore, the suit could go forward.MR. CASEY: Correct.QUESTION: That's the difference?MR. CASEY: Correct. And the difference wascreated because the majority in Heck based much of itsdecision on a rationale of the common law. A concurringopinion in that case, signed by four justices, said, no,we're not going to base it on that rationale because thatmight mean that there would be no Civil Rights Act remedy th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. in any such case. Subsequently, in the Spencer v. Kemna,one of the judges who - or justices - who had been in themajority changed her mind and is now agreeing with therationale of the concurring opinion in Heck. So that'swhy the Sixth Circuit, or that's why the courts of appealsare split on this. On the facts of Edwards and Heck itinvolved just duration claims, but depending on therationale for the rule, it may or may not apply toconditions cases. We say it does apply to conditions casesbecause -QUESTION: And the condition here - and one thingis the abstract level on which you're speaking, the otheris concretely what this case is about. This case is aboutsix days spent in pre-hearing detention. It's the only thing that money is sought for. Now, we're told thatinsolence is bondable, threatening behavior is not. Doesbondable mean it will be bond? What is the incidence? What practically is the effect?MR. CASEY: Some - some major misconducts aremandatory non-bondable. Threatening behavior, theoriginal charge, was mandatory -QUESTION: So insolence is not mandatory. What isthe practice in the prison? Is it common to let people -MR. CASEY: On - on page of the joint appendixwe've quoted from the policy directive, and the standard th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. is, if there is a reasonable showing that failure to do sowould constitute a threat to the security or good order ofthe facility, so on a case-by-case basis, a prisonercharged with a bondable major misconduct could be placedin pre-hearing detention.QUESTION: Well, when you say bondable, I mean,you don't mean if a person posts a bond they're out on thestreet?MR. CASEY: No, no. That - that's the phraseused in these prison directives.QUESTION: But that's what this case is about,those six days when he was in administrative detention.MR. CASEY: Those are the six days for which heis seeking damages.QUESTION: And - and do you have, rather thanbeing in the general prison population, do you have anystatistical indication of - on charges of insolence, arepeople more often than not, or is it rare that they wouldbe in administrative detention awaiting the hearing?MR. CASEY: I - I don't have the statistics of -the Department of Corrections probably could compilethat, but I don't know. I do know that there were lastyear more than , major misconduct hearings of allkinds, bondable and non-bondable. I do not know how manyof those , resulted in pre-hearing detention. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. QUESTION: But was - was this argument raisedbelow that there's no cause of action because there's noassurance that he wouldn't have been kept for six daysanyway, even if it was bondable? You - you didn't defendon that ground, did you?MR. CASEY: It was not argued in those terms, no. As I said, the case was argued -QUESTION: Why do we want to get into that? I -I don't understand.MR. CASEY: No. We did not argue the - the termsof the bond versus non-bondable, because it simply didn'tcome up.QUESTION: So suppose now - I think JusticeO'Connor may be causing the light to dawn in my head -suppose you're right, suppose that there is just one ballof wax. Suppose the - this is all a waste of time tryingto separate those two things. There's just one thing. There's a conviction, all right?MR. CASEY: Correct.QUESTION: Now, we look to see what happens if hewins. If he wins, we set aside the whole conviction, butgood time is out of it. And since good time is out of it,of course he can bring a action, because this wasn'tthe kind of thing that habeas was designed for. Habeaswas about duration of - of staying in prison, and with th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. good time out of it, it doesn't matter whether it's oneball of wax or two. He can go in on since there's noconflict with the habeas statute. What's your response tothat?MR. CASEY: Our response to that in - in - inresponse to the question that the Court granted certiorarion is that even if good time was not at issue in the case,if the only punishment he received affected the conditionsof confinement, our argument is, it's still appropriate tolook to the traditions of the common law and public policyconsiderations to determine whether a cause of action inthose circumstances is cognizable in . We've arguedthat it is not cognizable. If he is challenging thevalidity of his misconduct determination, that's analogous to the common law tort of malicious prosecution.The elements of that tort require favorabletermination before it can succeed. We believe that - thatsame element applies in a case. So if he does notget favorable termination of his prison misconduct, hecannot bring a suit for damages under .QUESTION: It is essential to your argument, isit not, that provocation would be a defense?MR. CASEY: No.QUESTION: No?MR. CASEY: Whatever - whatever charge - th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. QUESTION: If provocation would - would not be adefense, then even if he establishes provocation, forwhich he can get damages, he would not be impairing thejudgment against him.MR. CASEY: One of the elements of theconstitutional cause of action for retaliation is adverseaction against the prisoner because of his protectedconduct. The adverse action in this case is not thestaring down and the nose-to-nose confrontation. Theadverse action is charging misconduct, and we say, if he'sright in his complaint that there would not have been amisconduct charge but for this action, that necessarilyimplies that the misconduct proceeding is invalid, andthat triggers the analogy to malicious prosecution and its element of favorable termination.QUESTION: So that you say basically, theimportance of Heck and Humphrey here is the way it saysyou ought to refer to common law analogies in analyzingwhether there ought to be a action, and that hasnothing to do in the final analysis with whether there's acollision between habeas corpus and . That is an -that is an independent requirement of the way you go aboutanalyzing actions.MR. CASEY: Yes, that's correct.QUESTION: So that even though there isn't a th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. habeas corpus problem, you still go through the samemethodology?MR. CASEY: Correct. You say the samemethodology applies whether it's just conditions orduration of confinement. If it's a -QUESTION: Are you essentially making anexhaustion of - of state remedies then? It seems to me -are you - you're not saying that this person would haveno complaint, no Federal complaint, not in habeas, not in? Are you saying that -MR. CASEY: Yes.QUESTION: - or are you saying is premature?MR. CASEY: If he gets favorable termination. Wesay -QUESTION: Where does he get the favorabledetermination?MR. CASEY: The - if he got favorable terminationby review of the misconduct - if he - if he had won at themisconduct or if he had appealed and won on appeal, thatwould be favorable termination.QUESTION: So you're saying essentially he hasn'texhausted his internal administrative remedies, and that'swhy the is improper?MR. CASEY: We say the - his failure to exhaustis another independent reason why he does not have - th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. QUESTION: You're saying he has to both exhaustand prevail?MR. CASEY: That's correct. They're independentrequirements.QUESTION: And that seems somewhat inconsistentwith at least the negative implication of the Federalstatute, which says all he has to do is exhaust.MR. CASEY: Well, the - the Court addressed thatquestion in Heck v. Humphrey, and it said that even if aperson exhausts his remedies, if he has not favorablyterminated, he cannot bring the lawsuit unless and untilhe gets favorable termination. They're - they'reindependent. The exhaustion requirement -QUESTION: Well, that's the Heck v. Humphrey's gloss, but that's an additional requirement. Usuallyexhaustion does not require prevailing.MR. CASEY: Well, that's correct. That'scorrect. The - the reason he has to get favorabletermination in this case is because of the analogy to -QUESTION: Yes.MR. CASEY: - malicious prosecution. QUESTION: Right. It - it usually does notrequire prevailing, but it does require prevailing when -when your cause of action is that - that you have beensubjected to the law improperly. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. MR. CASEY: That's correct. That's our argument.QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. Casey.MR. CASEY: Thank you very much.QUESTION: Ms. Beckwith, you have minutesremaining.REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF CORINNE BECKWITHON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERMS. BECKWITH: Turning to the actual questionpresented in this case, there is no justification for theSixth Circuit's rule extending the Heck favorabletermination requirement to prison hearings that don'tinvolve the fact or duration of custody. Congress couldhave amended to say that, but we know from the PLRAthey looked at the same considerations, they did something different. The Sixth Circuit is an outlier here, asJustice O'Connor said, because there's no - there's noconflict with habeas in a - in a matter like this. As to all of the other questions that have comeup during this argument, this case came to this Court inthe posture where there were no good-time credits andthere was no exhaustion question. Now, we think we canovercome those problems, but I don't think this Courtneeds to.And the - the government has never cited any lawthat says the guard's retaliatory conduct violating Mr. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. Muhammad's First Amendment rights would have been adefense, and we know of none. They argued that it was -it was relevant to credibility. They argued that that wassome kind of a but-for relationship, but victory in the suit does not affect the adjudication for insolencein this claim. All of this only matters if good-timecredits are at issue.And putting all of that aside, we just agreewith Justice Breyer that then this is an easy case in ourfavor. If there are no further questions from the Court,we'd ask that you reverse the Sixth Circuit.CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: Thank you, Ms.Beckwith. The case is -(Whereupon, at : a.m., the case in the above-entitled matter was submitted.) th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. 