 IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XGENERAL DYNAMICS :LAND SYSTEMS, INC., : Petitioner : v. : No. -DENNIS CLINE, ET AL. :- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -X Washington, D.C. Wednesday, November , The above-entitled matter came on for oralargument before the Supreme Court of the United States at: a.m.APPEARANCES:DONALD B. VERRILLI, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf of the Petitioner.MARK W. BIGGERMAN, ESQ., Cleveland, Ohio; on behalf of the Respondents.PAUL D. CLEMENT, ESQ., Assistant Solicitor General, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; as amicus curiae, supporting the Respondents. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. C O N T E N T SORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGEDONALD B. VERRILLI, ESQ. On behalf of the Petitioner MARK W. BIGGERMAN On behalf of the Respondents PAUL D. CLEMENT As amicus curiae, supporting the RespondentsREBUTTAL ARGUMENT OFDONALD B. VERRILLI, ESQ. On behalf of the Petitioner th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. P R O C E E D I N G S (: a.m.) CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: We'll hear argumentnow in No. -, the General Dynamics Land Systems,Inc. v. Dennis Cline. Mr. Verrilli. ORAL ARGUMENT OF DONALD B. VERRILLI ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER MR. VERRILLI: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court: The very essence of age discrimination is thedisparate treatment of older workers based on the falseassumption that productivity and competence decline withold age. The Age Discrimination in Employment Actprotects workers and older from that kind of disparatetreatment. It should not be stretched to cover claims byworkers and older that they have been treateddisparately on the basis of their comparative youth. QUESTION: Well, Mr. Verrilli, it - perhaps youcan say that the language in the statute, because of anindividual age - individual's age - is somehow ambiguous. But to what extent do we have to give some deference tothe agency position on the thing? Because the Governmentis here taking a position contrary to yours based onagency interpretation. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. MR. VERRILLI: They - they are, Justice O'Connor. That interpretation deserves no deference for threereasons, which I'd like to summarize and then firstelaborate on. The first is that, under Chevron, thequestion - the question of deference is not dependent onwhether there's a definitional ambiguity in the - in thespecific operative language, in this case of Section(a), but on what the - what that language means as readin the context of the Act. And Chevron says, using all ofthe traditional tools of statutory construction, andapplying that test we submit, as - as I hope to elaboratethis morning, one cannot come to the conclusion that there- there - that this statute can be fairly read toauthorize the kinds of youth discrimination claims thatare at issue here. The second reason, however, is that even ifthere were - even if there were ambiguity in general,which we submit there is not, under the holding, theexpress holding in Mead, the - the EEOC's regulation hereis not entitled to Chevron deference, and the reason forit is this, and this is at page of the Mead opinion in U.S. The very sentence that states the holding inMead says, a regulation is entitled to Chevron deferenceif it is - if it is promulgated in the - if the agency hasbeen given by Congress the authority to promulgate rules th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. with the force of law, and we acknowledge that is truehere. But the second half of the test - this is in thestatement of the holding in Mead - is that the rule has tobe promulgated in an exercise of that authority, and theregulation that the EEOC is here defending today was not a- a rule that was given the force of law by the agency. In fact, the agency made - the Department of Labor, whenit initially promulgated this regulation, made adeliberate decision not to promulgate it as a rule withthe force of law, but instead to promulgate it solely asguidance to the public about its - about its enforcementauthority and it was - QUESTION: How - how do we know that? MR. VERRILLI: Because that is what theDepartment of Labor said in the Federal Register when itpromulgated this. QUESTION: What - what - what did it sayspecifically? MR. VERRILLI: It said, we are promulgating thisas a matter of enforcement guidelines for the - guidance - so the public knows how we intend to enforce the - the - the statute. It did not promulgate a rule of law. Andthen when it was re-promulgated by the EEOC in - andagain, the cites for this are on page of our reply th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. brief - when it was re-promulgated by the EEOC in ,the EEOC made a deliberate choice, which it explained inthe Federal Register, not to have this be a substantiverule with the force of law, and in fact it did not complywith, and stated it was not going to comply with, the -day notice period that is required for substantive rulesof law so that - QUESTION: Well, if we could call this anenforcement position or an enforcement policy on the partof the agency, and you're going to probably say we can't - shouldn't call it that - but if we could, doesn't theGovernment get some deference? You say it gets nodeference at all? MR. VERRILLI: If - well, it would get Skidmoredeference, Justice Kennedy, and I think Christensenspecifically says that, that it gets Skidmore deference ifit's an enforcement guideline and not - and not a - a ruleof law - substantive rule of law. But here, Skidmore -applying Skidmore, no deference is due to this regulationprincipally because it is a regulation that the - that hasnot been enforced in anything like a consistent manner. To the contrary - QUESTION: That - that's a different issue, butlet's - let's come back to the point of whether it ispromulgated as an interpretive regulation or a substantive th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. regulation. You are taking the position that onlysubstantive regulations are entitled to Chevron deference? MR. VERRILLI: The - the holding in Mead, JusticeScalia - QUESTION: Only - only - only substantiveregulations? Mead does not say that. MR. VERRILLI: The - the holding in - thesentence that's in Mead that says - QUESTION: All of the regulations of the SEC, forexample, virtually all of them are interpretiveregulations. MR. VERRILLI: The question under Mead is whetherit was a regulation that was promulgated that - that hasthe force of law, and they - QUESTION: No, but your - your - point is - QUESTION: That does not equate withinterpretive. MR. VERRILLI: Not necessarily. But here theymade a deliberate decision that it wasn't going to havethe force of law and they, for example, in - QUESTION: No, they didn't. They - theypromulgated it, on page of your brief, as aninterpretation rather than a substantive regulation, andthat's what it is. MR. VERRILLI: Right, right, Justice Scalia. But th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. they did not comply with the -day notice period, whichis required - QUESTION: You don't have to for - forinterpretive regulations. MR. VERRILLI: But for rules with the force oflaw you do. QUESTION: For substantive regulations you haveto. You do not have to for interpretive regulations, butthat does not mean that an interpretive regulation doesnot - is not entitled to Chevron deference and is notfully as - as effective as - as laying down the rule oflaw as a substantive regulation. That's never been the - the rule. MR. VERRILLI: The question here is whether theagency intended this to be a rule of law or - or guidanceof its own enforcement authority, and it - and it clearlyintended the latter and it has acted in a mannerconsistent with the fact that it's the latter and not theformer, because it routinely refuses to enforce theprinciple that the Government is here advocating today. Indeed, in every single instance in which this issue hascome before the Department of Labor and the EqualOpportunity - and the EEOC - since the mid-'s, inevery single instance the - the Department of Labor or theEEOC has blessed a - an employment practice that provides th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. comparatively older workers with a benefit not availableto workers - to all workers and older so - QUESTION: Mr. - Mr. Verrilli, I - I will assumeyou're - you're right on the - the application of Meadhere, so far as the reg goes. What about the - I think itwas the adjudication? MR. VERRILLI: The adjudication, it seems tome, is not something that can give rise to Chevrondeference, because that - they were just acting pursuantto their own view of what the - of - of what their - whatthe statute - QUESTION: Wasn't it binding - wasn't it bindingon the parties before them? MR. VERRILLI: It was binding on the parties,Justice Souter, but, of course, even if - if the Courtwere to conclude that under Mead you get Chevrondeference, and I don't think you can for that reason, youstill have the problem, in our view, which is the morefundamental problem, which I'd like to address, which isthat - QUESTION: Before you leave me, can I just readyou two sentences from Mead? First sentence says, it isfair to assume generally that Congress - that Congresscontemplates administrative action with the effect of thelaw when it provides for a relatively formal th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. administrative procedure, which you say doesn't existhere. Next sentence, that said, and as significant asnotice and comment is in pointing to Chevron authority,the want of that procedure here does not decide the casefor we have sometimes found reasons for Chevron deferenceeven when no such administrative formality was requiredand none was afforded. So, as I read that last sentence, I certainlythought that if Congress so intends, we should giveChevron deference to a rule that has not complied evenwith notice and comment. MR. VERRILLI: Yes - QUESTION: So I couldn't read Mead as saying youhave to have that or you don't get the deference. MR. VERRILLI: But I think the fundamental pointfor us under Mead, and then I'd like to move back to themain - the Chevron analysis, if I could, but thefundamental point for us under Mead, Justice Breyer, isthat the agency made a deliberate decision here not tohave this rule be one that was a binding rule - QUESTION: Well, I - I don't know how often anagency says what this agency said here, that we arepromulgating this as an indication of how we intend toenforce the law. And you're saying there is a chasmbetween rules that are issued with that kind of a th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. statement and rules that are issued otherwise. The agencysays, in one case, this is the law, and in the other case,this is how we interpret the law. I - I don't see thatthat makes the difference. MR. VERRILLI: I don't see how the agency could,Justice Scalia, think that this had the force of law,because they didn't follow it themselves in the manifoldin this decision of which the issue - QUESTION: Well, that's - that's a differentpoint. That's a different point. QUESTION: Well, isn't - isn't that your - isn'tthat your stronger point that - that combined with the -the relatively abbreviated procedure, they have, in fact,in a number of instances not followed it and they havenever affirmatively, as - as a - as an administrativemovement, they have never affirmatively enforced it. Isn't - isn't - MR. VERRILLI: That's - that's all correct and we- I think that does summarize our point more strongly. QUESTION: Which I think goes to the Chevronpoint. MR. VERRILLI: Going - I agree with that, JusticeSouter - but going back to the main question of whetheryou even get to ambiguity under Chevron, we submit thatthe answer to that question is no, because Section (a) th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. is not to be read in isolation. The fundamental principleof statutory construction is that it needs to be read incontext, and the relative contextual indicators here, wesubmit, foreclose the argument that Congress intended inthe ADEA to authorize the kind of youth discriminationclaims that are at issue here. QUESTION: Why, Mr. Verrilli, when we have - whatis it - (f)()(B) - that makes an express provision forolder worker versus younger worker. If that were thegeneral interpretation of the statute, then this specificprovision relating to an older worker vis-a-vis a youngerworker would be unnecessary. MR. VERRILLI: I respectfully disagree with that,Justice Ginsburg, and - and - I'm - I'm looking now atpage a of the statutory appendix to the Government'sbrief where the - where provision is located. (B)(i) isin the statute, as the preamble to the Older WorkerBenefit Protection Act states, to - to provide employerswith an affirmative defense to a charge that they havediscriminated against comparatively older workers byproviding them benefits at a lower level thancomparatively younger workers. And what - what (B)(i) says, which I take it isthe provision Your Honor is referring to, is that, in thatsituation, even though the comparatively older worker is th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. being disfavored, the comparatively older worker has anaffirmative defense, if the older worker can - if theemployer can show that the - that it spent as least asmuch on the benefit for the older worker as it did for theyounger worker, even if the benefit is less, and so that - QUESTION: Well, does that provision cover yoursituation, do you think, here? MR. VERRILLI: We - we - QUESTION: I mean, could you fit yourself, yourclient's situation, under that provision? MR. VERRILLI: Yes, Justice O'Connor. We canshoehorn ourselves into that provision. QUESTION: And why - is that still pending in thecourt below, that argument? MR. VERRILLI: It is - it is still pending in thecourt below. That's correct, Your Honor. QUESTION: So, no matter what we do, you wouldtake the position that that provision will cover thiscase? MR. VERRILLI: We do think so, Your Honor. Ofcourse, the respondents won't agree with that, I'm quitesure, and I - and I don't think that that's going to solvethe many problems that the Sixth Circuit's decision gaverise to here. For example - th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. QUESTION: Well, that - that's my next point. The - the briefs try to tell us that there's going to be cataclysmic consequences if we don't rule your way. Thissafe harbor provision gives very substantial protectionagainst that, does it not, or - or does it? MR. VERRILLI: Yeah - let - if I - I think itgives some protection, not complete protection, but Ithink there are a whole range of other negativeconsequences, Your Honor, that I'd like to address, if Icould, and then - and I will certainly directly addressthe safe harbor provision. First, there are a number of employmentpractices out there where the nation's major employershave engaged in efforts to retain older segments of theworkforce and to bring back elderly citizens back into theworkforce by doing such things as providing for workersover a certain threshold age, very often , the abilityto work part-time rather than full-time, to have flex-time schedules, to have - to have jobs that don't involvetravel. They've changed the terms, conditions, andprivileges of employment for people over a certain age tokeep them in the workforce. The safe harbor here applies only to benefits,Justice Kennedy, and therefore, would not protect thatkind of behavior, and although the United States talks th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. about the safe harbor with respect to benefits, I wouldpoint out the brief of the United States is notably silenton the question of whether the interpretation beingadvocated here would make illegal that kind of conduct. And we submit it would because it clearly prefers thecomparatively older to the comparatively younger withrespect to terms, conditions, and privileges ofemployment, so - QUESTION: Has the EEOC taken an enforcementposition with reference to some of the practices you'vejust - MR. VERRILLI: Yeah. QUESTION: - or - or non-enforcement positions? MR. VERRILLI: Yes, yes, they have. There areDOL and EEOC letters which approve those practices, butit's hard to see how one could possibly approve thosepractices consistent with an interpretation of Section(a) that imposed a rigid rule of equality for everyone and over. QUESTION: One of the amicus briefs pointed to anumber of Internal Revenue Code provisions and ERISAprovisions that appear to be implicated if you go with theSixth Circuit view here, and perhaps would be inopposition to the interpretation, given the language - MR. VERRILLI: Yes - th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. QUESTION: - by the Sixth Circuit. Now, have youcommented on those various provisions? MR. VERRILLI: We have, Justice O'Connor, andthis is actually the second category of adverse effect, itseems to me, that you have if the - if this decisionstands and if the rule of law is what the - what theGovernment advocates. Many of those provisions, which aredetailed quite effectively in the ERISA Committee brief,provide for - for things such as employees with - employeestock option plans, ESOP plans, are allowed, once theybecome years old, to diversify their stock holdings. Employees, when they retire at -/ can withdraw moneyfrom their retirement plans without facing the taxpenalty. There are a host of provisions like that. One point to be made is that it seems to meirreconcilable with the existence of those provisions tointerpret (a) this way, but the other point my - myfriends the respondents say, yeah, but you don't have toworry about that because the rule that the later-enactedstatute governs over the former-enacted statute will takecare of it. I'm afraid that's not so for the followingreason. All of the examples I just gave, and many othersin the - in the ERISA Committee brief, were statutes thatCongress enacted before , and I submit that isthe relevant date for the later-enacted statute, because th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. it has - has - that's the - the Older Worker BenefitProtection Act was passed after Betts and it was passed in, and it was that statute that made the ADEAapplicable for the first time to fringe benefits of thekind that those regulations govern. So you have a serious problem, at a veryminimum, with respect to all of those regulations, itseems to me - QUESTION: Mr. Verrilli, what do you do withSection (e), which prohibits any advertising by anemployer indicating any preference, limitation,specification, or discrimination based on age? Now, agethere could not possibly mean what you say it means in(a), that is, old age, because then it would justprohibit preferring older people. So what do you say itmeans then? MR. VERRILLI: Well, I say - QUESTION: It means young - MR. VERRILLI: I - I - QUESTION: In (a) it means old age and in (e) itmeans young age? MR. VERRILLI: I have a lot to say about it,Justice Scalia. The first thing is this: The critiquethat the Government levels at us with respect to thatprovision is equally applicable to their interpretation. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. What they say is that, you know, if it were lawful underthe statute to grant a preference for old age - it doesn'tmake any sense to say that's it not lawful to advertisefor old age - of course, what - if - if age meanschronological age here, then you wouldn't be able to statea preference for chronological age in an advertisement,even though it would be perfectly lawful substantively tohave a policy that said you're going to open positions toonly people or older. So I don't think they get any mileage out ofthat - out of that, because I think they've got the samekind of linguistic difficulty that we have here withrespect to it. And I think what that shows, JusticeScalia, is - QUESTION: No, but it - it still has some meaningand some beneficial effect with their interpretation,whereas with your interpretation of age, it has noconceivable beneficial effect. You have to read it thereas meaning young age and you read it in (a) as meaning oldage. MR. VERRILLI: Well, I think you could read it asmeaning old age, but I think the truth of the matter isthat the word age is something of a chameleon. It's aword that is very sensitive to context and it's going tohave somewhat different connotations throughout this th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. statute, and I think it's quite clear that it does. It'sa different connotation, for example, in Section B of thestatement of findings and purposes, where it's quite clearthat Congress is not talking about chronological age. Ithas a different connotation in the seniority provision,which you can find at page a of the Government'sstatutory appendix, which talks about involuntaryretirement, down near the bottom of the page, that anemployer's plan cannot require the involuntary retirementof any individual specified by subsection of thistitle because of the age of such individual. Now, in a sense, that means chronological age,but not in the sense that my friends on the other side sayabout (a), because what it means really is once you'vebecome old enough that you've bumped up against the agelimit, and there are other provisions in in which agefunctions in exactly that way. I just don't think - Ithink this really is a case like Robinson against ShellOil, where the word employee takes on differentconnotations in different sections, like - like Scheidler,where the word enterprise in the various subsections ofRICO takes on different connotations depending on exactlyhow it's being used. I think the word age here takes ondifferent connotations in different sections in thestatute. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. QUESTION: You must have thought of this andtried it out. It doesn't work, but as I was reading it Ithought perhaps individual might refer to olderindividual. MR. VERRILLI: Well, I think - I - QUESTION: If - I mean, but that must not, butI'm sure - why didn't it work? Because if you - if you - if you have - if you read individual throughout - cite()(a)(i) is older individual. The only place it has biteis where you get to the end, because of such olderindividuals - MR. VERRILLI: I think - we've thought about itin this sense, Justice Breyer, and I think it dovetailswhat I - what I think is our key contextual point, whichis that statute only protects people and older, and ifwhat Congress was concerned about was a rule thatprecluded arbitrary discrimination in favor of thecomparatively old as well as the comparatively young, it'san exceedingly strange thing to do to draw a line at age, because, of course, people under are much morelikely to be subject to discrimination on the ground thatthey're comparatively too young than are people over . QUESTION: I - I thought it was a big deal whenyou had your th birthday, I mean - (Laughter.) th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. MR. VERRILLI: Not anymore, Your Honor. (Laughter.) QUESTION: But is it - MR. VERRILLI: But in any - QUESTION: - isn't the - isn't the answer to - tothe - to the argument that you've just made is that as -as a general proposition, anything that in effectinterrupts or skews employment for somebody over the ageof is very difficult for somebody over the age of todeal with, regardless of which way the discrimination isworking? That is not as a general rule true of youngerpeople, and that's why it would make sense for - for the -for the interpretation that - that was being suggested, todraw the line at . MR. VERRILLI: I - I think - I think that's the - the best statement of the argument on the other side andI think it's the Government's effort to defend the line onthat basis, but I don't think it works, because the reasonthat people and over have a problem once they suffer anadverse employment action - and the Government itselfacknowledges this in its argument - is because they arethen subject to discrimination on the ground that theyperceive - they are perceived as being too old. That'sthe problem, and that's the only problem the Governmenthas been able to identify that people and over suffer th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. is that kind of - QUESTION: Well, the -year-olds are perceivedas being too old in relation to people less than , andit still means that when somebody looks at a -year-old,they - the -year-old is just not as attractive anemployee as somebody, you know, a year - a year younger ortwo years younger. MR. VERRILLI: Yes, Justice Souter. I thinkthat's true, but - but (a) isn't an all-purposeprohibition of arbitrary employment decisions respectingpeople and over, and after all, that same kind ofcritique could be made of - if an employee is firedbecause they're not fit enough or they have the wrongcolor hair or - QUESTION: Mr. Verrilli, it does - what JusticeSouter suggested does fit with the comment of SenatorYarborough that was put out, that said that the -year-old would have a claim if the -year-old were preferred,say, for hiring or promotion. MR. VERRILLI: It - it does. That's the onlything in the voluminous history of this - of thisenactment and all of its amendments that provides anysupport for the Government's view here in response, but it- and it - but it does provide some support for that, Iagree. But I really think - th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. QUESTION: The - the part of your explanationabout the - the diminished hurt to the -year-old waswithin the - was within the universe of society as awhole, but within the context of his own or her owncompany, this is hurtful. These are people at that agewho have younger children being educated and so forth, andif they find discrimination within their company, itdoesn't help much for you to say, well, society as a wholedoesn't discriminate against. MR. VERRILLI: I think - I think, JusticeKennedy, that it's - it's important to go back to thesource for this statute to understand what Congress wastrying to do, the circumstances of enactment of thisstatute. After all, Congress could have, either in ,when it passed Title VII, or in , when it enacted thisstatute, simply have put the word age into Title VII andhad it operate in exactly the same manner Title VII does. But it made a deliberate choice not to do that. The reason it did, I submit, is because therecommendations of the Secretary of Labor in response tothe directive of Congress were that the problem of agediscrimination in the workplace is fundamentally differentthan the problem of - than the problems that wereaddressed by Title VII. And the critical difference isthis, that the - the kinds of discrimination that Title th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. VII addressed was discrimination on the basis ofcharacteristics that are always irrelevant to a decisionabout who should be hired, fired, or promoted, or demoted. And what the Secretary of Labor said is that age isdifferent, the age is not always irrelevant, agedistinctions are not always arbitrary, and I submit theCourt - the opinion for the Court in Betts identifiedexactly that principle, that this is a different kind ofproblem warranting a different kind of solution. The problem was that there are stereotypes thatexist that - that - on which employers act that - thatprospective employees are - don't have the competence orthe productivity to handle a job because they are too old,and that was the problem that this statute tried toaddress and it's why it tried to address it in such afundamentally different manner than Title VII. Contextmakes all the difference here. Again, and - and I thinkthe Court really did recognize that in Betts. JusticeKennedy, in Betts, you had the operative languageprivileges - terms, conditions, and privileges ofemployment, identical in Title VII to - and the ADEA. But what the Court concluded in Betts was thatthat language had a different meaning. In Title VII itincluded fringe benefits. In the ADEA it did not includefringe benefits, and the reason for that was because th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. reading the provision not in isolation, but in the contextof the rest of the statute, it was quite clear that Title- that the ADEA was meant to address a different kind ofproblem, and that there was age-based decision-making thatwas appropriate and not invidious and that ought not to beprohibited by law. And I submit that the kind of age-based decision-making that's at issue in this case isprecisely the kind of age-based decision-making thatCongress did not want to make unlawful. And the reason for this is quite - is quitesimply that people at the end of their working lives arein a different position, especially with respect toretirement security measure, which is what at issue - isat issue here, even than a -year-old, someone else inthe protected class. And so when an employer acts, asGeneral Dynamics did here, with the union, to come up witha solution that protected them from a harsh outcome andprotected their reliance interests, it's simply notanything remotely within the contemplation of Congresswhen it - when it - in the prohibitory - prohibitorysections of the ADEA. If the Court - QUESTION: Do we know the numbers, Mr. Verrilli? We have, I think, some people in the class that'ssuing the to -year-old. How many were grandfatheredin the - th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. MR. VERRILLI: I - I believe it's - I believeit's a comparable number, but I have to confess, YourHonor, I don't know for sure what the exact number is. Ifthe Court has no further questions, I'd like to reservethe balance of my time. QUESTION: Very well, Mr. Verrilli. Mr. Biggerman, we'll hear from you. ORAL ARGUMENT OF MARK W. BIGGERMANON BEHALF OF RESPONDENTS MR. BIGGERMAN: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court: The real issue here is whether this Court shouldadd an additional element to the ADEA's prohibitionlanguage. And the answer, we submit, is no. The ADEAprohibits discrimination against individuals years oldor older because of their age, not because of their olderage. Petitioner would have this Court change thatlanguage to require that individuals and older also berelatively older than any other group of employees withwhom they - QUESTION: Mr. Biggerman, how do you deal withthe relaxed physical tests for, say, or over? As Mr.Verrilli mentioned, the flex-time, the reduced hours forpeople who are well over - , say, so that the - could- could the to age group then sue because they have th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. to meet in full the physical fitness requirements, theycan't have the flex-time, they can't have the reducedhours? MR. BIGGERMAN: Your Honor, those are encompassedin affirmative defenses. What we are asserting here issimply whether the respondents have a cause of action. QUESTION: So is your answer yes, that would bediscrimination? It might be a defense but it would beprohibited discrimination under this Act to make thosespecial accommodations to older workers? MR. BIGGERMAN: That would be prohibited subjectto an affirmative defense. QUESTION: What would the affirmative defense be? MR. BIGGERMAN: For example, a bona fideoccupational qualification. QUESTION: Why in the world would that be a BFOQ? You don't have to be over to do the job, quite thecontrary. Special accommodations are being made so thatthey're able to do the job. It doesn't fit with any BFOQdecision that I know. It's a very extraordinaryapplicational definition of BFOQ, bona fide occupationqualification essential to the job. QUESTION: So what happens is that a piece oflegislation that everybody thought was meant to aid olderworkers, especially those towards the end of their working th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. careers, ends up harming them. You - you - you cannotmake special arrangements to let them do flex-time. Youcan't make these accommodations - a very strangeconsequence of this legislation. MR. BIGGERMAN: Your Honor, we - we - we submitthat Congress set forth specific examples as to when thereare exceptions that can be made. QUESTION: But do you have - the exceptions arein the statute. You gave me the BFOQ, I think it's quiteclear that that wouldn't work in this case. What elsewould be? We have, as you said, this would bediscrimination. How could the employer then defendagainst it? What is there in the statute that would givethe employer an affirmative defense? MR. BIGGERMAN: Your Honor, what would give theemployer an affirmative defense to have, as you said, amore - to permit - if you could repeat the example? QUESTION: To make special accommodations toolder workers, no physical fitness test, shorter hours,flex-time, and that's not available to people who areunder , say. MR. BIGGERMAN: Well, I - I think that - let meexpand a little on my answer. I think that Congress' goalhere was to make age a neutral factor in employment. Now,I don't think that Congress intended to permit any special th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. considerations for age unless they're set forth in thestatute. QUESTION: But what about all the sections inERISA and in the Internal Revenue Code that allow variousprovisions for benefit plans, for retirement, and forstock option exercise and so forth that are going to be atodds with your interpretation. MR. BIGGERMAN: Your Honor - QUESTION: I mean, there are a whole array oflaws that will be directly affected if the Sixth Circuitview is affirmed. Now, what do we do about all that? Doyou think Congress really intended such a result? MR. BIGGERMAN: I don't think that the ADEAconflicts with those provisions because a cause of action,unlike in this case, (b)(), this case should not havebeen dismissed, it should have been allowed to go forward. And in the employer - in any situation which thoseregulations or those statutory provisions under some otherlaw - IRS - QUESTION: One thing - I see that point - thatone thing that everybody, I think, is saying in one formor another, is one thing that isn't covered in is hiringand firing people. So every time an employer dismisses aperson over the age of , he will either be hit with alawsuit by the older one, or if he tries to lean over a th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. little backwards in favor of the older - and I don't wantto be too prejudiced in favor of the older though I am inthat category - the - the point is that every time he thentries to be at all sympathetic to the older person, theyounger one hits him with a lawsuit. And so what the Federal courts become is anemployment court to discover in each instance whetherthere was cause, and moreover, no employer could possiblylean over even a little bit favorable towards an olderperson, and that's why I think what we're saying is your - I would say it - your interpretation will blow up thisAct, destroy it. An Act that was intended to help olderpeople will now suddenly become an Act which turns Federalcourts into labor courts, deciding in each case thatanything happens to a person over the age of , whetherthe employer was or was not justified. Now - now that is- I'm putting it strongly, but I want to hear what I thinkthey're telling you on the other side, which is what Ithought I was articulating. MR. BIGGERMAN: Your Honor, I would - I wouldanalogize that to this Court's decision in McDonald v.Santa Fe, when, prior to that in McDonnell Douglas, thisCourt said - set forth the first prima facie requirementas requiring a minority under Title VI. Yet in McDonaldv. Santa Fe it said no because of sex. That is when you th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. can sue like in the Age Act. QUESTION: Well, that - that brings me back tothe answer you gave to Justice Ginsburg's question and itwas again reflected in Justice Breyer's. Am I correct ininferring from your answer - I don't think you said itquite this way - that in Justice Ginsburg's hypotheticalregarding flex-time and - and no physical fitness test,you would say that there is a violation there? That'swhat I carry away from your - from your answer to her, andthat directly relates to Justice Breyer's concern that hejust expressed. MR. BIGGERMAN: Your Honor, I must - I musthumbly confess that I don't have a grasp of the entirestatute in every situation in every regulation. I wish atthis moment I did. But I would give you the generalanswer, that Congress intended to make age neutral, and ifthere were no exception, no exemption in the statute or noregulation that provided an affirmative defense, then thatwould be impermissible if it was based on age. QUESTION: Now, I - I have to tell you that -that as currently advised, that seems to me so fanciful aversion of what Congress intended that I would notinterpret the statute that way. Now, I will go along withyou if you can tell me that, with respect to thisambiguous statute, I am bound by Chevron or Mead to - to th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. accord deference to the agency's interpretation. Your -your - the people on the other side say that there's nosuch requirement. Do you think there is a requirementhere? MR. BIGGERMAN: Your Honor, I definitely thinkthat deference is - QUESTION: What are you relying on? The agencyguideline? MR. BIGGERMAN: . of the interpretiveguideline. Is that what you're referring to? QUESTION: Yes. MR. BIGGERMAN: Yes, which was also supported bythe agency adjudication in the adjudication, whichwas confirmed by the entire commission, which is the only- QUESTION: Do - do you agree with the descriptionof the other side that that was not promulgated by noticeand comment rule-making? MR. BIGGERMAN: It was my understanding that theEEOC promulgated it by notice and comment. QUESTION: Yes, but they said that they did itsimply to go along with the Carter administration'srequest or requirement that even interpretive rules bepromulgated by notice and comment rule-making even thoughthe ADA does not require that. Now, that's what they th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. actually wrote in their brief, and is that accurate? MR. BIGGERMAN: It's - it's my understanding thatthat is accurate. QUESTION: All right. If that is accurate, whywould Congress have intended, and the relevant pages ofMead use the word Congress in one paragraph five times totry to figure out what Congress wanted in this respect,why would Congress have wanted the courts to defer to thiskind of interpretive regulation, which if it's takenseriously would destroy Congress' own ends? That's apretty tough question. MR. BIGGERMAN: It is. QUESTION: I'm putting it - I'm overstating theseslightly because I want to elicit clear answers from you. MR. BIGGERMAN: I - I - it's not my belief thatthis goes against Congress' intentions. I think theCongress set out to set forth specific exemptions,including the Older Workers Benefit Protection Act, inwhich there are instances when older workers can befavored, and so therefore I don't think it went againstCongress' intention. I mean, the Older Workers BenefitProtection Act set forth a whole bunch of additionalexemptions after this regulation was already in place. QUESTION: Mr. Biggerman, may I ask you twoquestions? The first question is, when was the statute th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. enacted? MR. BIGGERMAN: The ADEA? QUESTION: Yes. I think the sponsor of thestatute, the Secretary of Labor, was a former lawprofessor of mine, so I think it goes back quite a ways. (Laughter.) MR. BIGGERMAN: Your Honor, I - I think you'reright. QUESTION: Well, it's a good many years ago,wasn't it? MR. BIGGERMAN: It was a good many years ago. QUESTION: And the second question is, what -what is your comment on this sentence in the districtcourt's opinion: Every Federal court to address the issuehas held that a claim of reverse age discrimination is notcognizable under ADA. This suggests that there's a longhistory of viewing the statute in one - one way and thatperhaps there are substantial reliance interests out therethat would build up over a period of many, many years. Would you comment on that aspect of the case? MR. BIGGERMAN: I - that statement by thedistrict court was incorrect. The decision in theMississippi Light - Mississippi Power and Light decisionhad been rendered before the district court's decision andthat was at least one decision that - th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. QUESTION: When was that case decided? Justshortly before the district court's decision? MR. BIGGERMAN: No, Your Honor, it was a littlebit before that and I'm looking for the cite. QUESTION: Well, isn't it true though, as ageneral matter, the courts had generally read the statutethe way the district court read it? MR. BIGGERMAN: As - as a - see, Your Honor,Hamilton came out and then all of the district courtsfollowed the Seventh Circuit's decision in Hamiltonwithout really interpreting the ADEA. They just simplyfollowed that. So, yes, there is a body. The majority ofthe body did go in that direction, but simply relied onthe Hamilton - QUESTION: But do you think that the - thebusiness community has - was justified in relying on thatrule for a good many years? MR. BIGGERMAN: I don't think so, Your Honor. Ithink in light of the EEOC - QUESTION: You think the statute's so clear? MR. BIGGERMAN: The statute and the EEOC - QUESTION: The EEOC during all this periodcontinued to say that - that it worked both ways, didn'tit? MR. BIGGERMAN: Not in its only binding opinion. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. In its only binding opinion it followed the language of. The letters, the opinion letters by the Secretary - the Department of Labor - and the EEOC before, thosearen't binding. The binding - QUESTION: Well, the question isn't whetherthey're binding. The question is whether the businesscommunity could rely on them. I mean, here are your -your - you have this guideline out there, this regulation,I would say, and incidentally I don't know why you acceptthe proposition that interpretive regulations are somehowdifferent from substantive regulations insofar as theirauthoritativeness is concerned, but you have theregulation out there, but you have the agency saying tothe business community in an opinion letter, don't worryabout it, we're not going to enforce it that way, andindeed we're going to amend the regulation. Now, youknow, what - what - what am I to make about that as far asChevron deference is concerned? MR. BIGGERMAN: Your Honor, I would - I would askthat you look at the top at the commission and what theydid in the binding opinion, and I think that is what isentitled to Chevron deference. QUESTION: But the - the regulation itself seemsto have some internal tension, if not inconsistency,because what you're relying on is what it says in th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. .(a) and then (b) goes on to say, but the extensionof additional benefits, such as increased severance pay toolder employees within the protected group, may be lawfulwhen the employer has a reasonable basis to conclude thatthose benefits will counteract problems related to agediscrimination. That seems to be just a recognition thatthe older you get, the more problems you have, and so ifyou can - if this - this regulation says, yes, you cangive benefits. MR. BIGGERMAN: Your Honor, again I would comeback to the - the statement that in order to fulfill therequirements set forward in (b), a reasonable basis, youneed facts. That's an affirmative defense, which we don'thave here. That goes above and beyond a simple cause ofaction. The employer could use that as an affirmativedefense to defend its action. QUESTION: Not unless there's a law allowing it. I don't see one. I mean, there is no provision unless youshoehorn it under this (B)(i) section, that allows any outfor the employer, is there? MR. BIGGERMAN: I - I don't understand. QUESTION: For the employ - well, I'm taking upyour time. You have only a few minutes left. I justdon't see a provision allowing the affirmative defense. MR. BIGGERMAN: Am I to understand you, Justice th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. O'Connor, that you don't see a provision in the statutethat allows the same affirmative defense as in thisregulation? That's correct. This - this is outside, butagain, it's the EEOC interpreting the Act. As we allknow, a statute doesn't cover every instance. Does thatanswer your question or would you like me to go - QUESTION: Go ahead. MR. BIGGERMAN: Okay. I - I would just like tosay that the Age Discrimination Act, the prohibitionlanguage says, because of age, and this Court has before,in Consolidated Coin, ruled that the fact that oneindividual loses out to another individual within theprotected class, it doesn't matter. It's because - it'swhether the individual loses out because of age. That -that's the critical thing here. The - QUESTION: The example that's given in the paperis the - the -year-old and a -year-old are bothapplying for a job and no matter which one gets it youcan't discriminate on account of age. How could adecision to employ the -year-old be a discrimination onaccount of age? What - what would be in the employer'smind if it's an age-based decision? MR. BIGGERMAN: Your Honor, are you asking me foran example as to why someone might want to hire - QUESTION: How - how could that - how could that, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. within the meaning of the statute, be a discrimination onaccount of age if they hired the older person? MR. BIGGERMAN: Congress found that at age andover any discrimination on the basis of age injures theindividual. QUESTION: But the decision to hire the olderperson, how could that be a - would it have to be just theunique situation where the employer doesn't like -year-olds? MR. BIGGERMAN: Well, it - there may be - theemployer may want a situation where they want the prestigeof having someone with gray hair as opposed to less grayhair for a consultant position or for a televisionanchorman. QUESTION: Well, that wouldn't be discriminationon the basis of age. You just like gray-haired people. Some young people have gray hair. QUESTION: They'd be just in favor of gray-haired people, yeah. (Laughter.) MR. BIGGERMAN: But - but if - if they had arequirement in their policy that it had to be only orolder - QUESTION: Well, it's - MR. BIGGERMAN: Right. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. QUESTION: You could be and still have darkhair. Some of us - (Laughter.) QUESTION: Maybe they're moved by humanity, or isthat an unfortunate thing to take into account in the law? MR. BIGGERMAN: It - it is not, Your Honor. QUESTION: So maybe they want to keep this olderperson around because it's the decent thing to do - MR. BIGGERMAN: But the statute - QUESTION: - and then the younger person comes inand sues. MR. BIGGERMAN: The statute prohibitsdiscrimination on the basis of age. It just simply setsthe protected class at and over. That's our argument. If there are no further questions. QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. Biggerman. Mr. Clement, we'll hear from you. ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAUL D. CLEMENTON BEHALF OF THE UNITED STATES AS AMICUS CURIAESUPPORTING THE RESPONDENTS MR. CLEMENT: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court: Absent an affirmative defense, the AgeDiscrimination in Employment Act prohibits discriminationon the basis of age against members of the protected class th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. and is not limited to claims brought by the older membersof the class. QUESTION: Mr. Clement, now, Justice Ginsburggave some examples of employment practices that favorolder persons, for which I don't think there's anaffirmative defense. Am I correct that there isn't? MR. CLEMENT: There's no affirmative defense inthe statute, Justice Stevens, and let me address thosehypotheticals, because I think these seemingly benevolentinstances of using age may be beguiling, but I think inreality even those benevolent uses of age implicate theinterests and concerns of the Age Act. Take, for example,an employer who's willing to exempt employees over froma physical fitness test. Well, the first question I wouldask is, if you're willing to exempt workers over fromthe physical fitness test, is the physical fitness testreally a legitimate occupational qualification? Andshould that be used to exclude workers between and from the workplace? QUESTION: Let's take the hours because youcertainly couldn't use that claim that that - that maybeyou didn't need this test. The claim isn't that itnecessarily screens out the older workers, but theemployer doesn't want to put them through the strain ofthe test. But let's - let's move to the flexible hours, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. reduced work hours, we're not going to give those benefitsto younger people within the protected class, only andover. MR. CLEMENT: Justice Ginsburg, it seems to methat stereotypes that older workers are going to be morestrained and can't work as hard and need time off areprecisely the stereotypes the Act is designed to prohibit. Now, it's different if a worker - QUESTION: Well then, how - how in the worldcould the agency then adopt .(b) that allowsincreased benefits to older workers if the employer canshow that those older people have more problems? MR. CLEMENT: Justice Ginsburg, .(b) islimited to benefits, and Charles Shaner, who's the generalcounsel of the EEOC at the time that the Older WorkerBenefit Protection Act was passed, explained that thestatutory affirmative defense that would be implicatedhere on remand, (f)()(B)(i), is a simplification ofthat regulatory defense. And I think what the Act as ageneral matter does is it recognizes that benefits aremore difficult because it's tied up with issues ofretirement age and the like, and so a more flexibleapproach is necessary with respect to benefits. But with respect to core employment, hiring,firing, promotion, and compensation, the Act reflects a th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. judgement, as stated in the purpose, that they want topromote the employment of older people on the basis - QUESTION: Now, Mr. Clement, just - I want to besure I have an answer to my question. With respect toemployment practices, such as that described, am I correctin - in agreeing that if an employer uses a stereotype to- to reach that conclusion, there would be no affirmativedefense for it? MR. CLEMENT: I - I think that's right. Unlessthis Court were, I mean, if this Court has a - has a veryflexible view of age in the prohibition, I suppose itcould allow the agency to adopt a flexible affirmativedefense along the lines of Weber. Let me also - QUESTION: Why not? MR. CLEMENT: Let me also say that the statutespecifically gives the EEOC, in U.S.C. , theregulatory authority to make exemptions, and I think ifthere are specific concerns with particular practices thatseem benevolent and are benevolent, then the EEOC can makea regulatory exemption. But with respect to theseseemingly benevolent - QUESTION: Where - where is that authority? MR. CLEMENT: U.S.C. . It's in thestatutory appendix, I believe at page a, and that - andthat is - that is a sweeping authority. It gives the EEOC th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. both the authority to make interpretive regulations andsubstantive exemptions from the statute. QUESTION: Well - well if - if your submission isthat stereotypes are - are deplored and prohibited by theAct, how could the EEOC make an exemption to the contrary? MR. CLEMENT: Well, I think, as I said, if - Ithink that - that the Act is perfectly consistent with theidea that these stereotypes should play no role. Thepurpose clause of the statute says it wants to promote theemployment of older workers, but how does it say it wantsto promote the employment of older workers? By havingthem judged on their ability rather than age. And I thinkit reflects a judgement that an employer that has age inmind and not ability when trying to favor an older workeris not going to be able to reverse the process whenthey're working to the detriment of a worker. QUESTION: So then in any instance in which theemployer quite honestly is moved by some human feelingthat is related to an older person, that the Act wouldrule out? MR. CLEMENT: I - I think that's right, JusticeBreyer, but what's - QUESTION: All right. Now, is there any reasonto think that that's what Congress had in mind, any reasonto think that it - that it - that it really wanted in this th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. respect, because most human beings are moved by thesekinds of emotions, they wanted to prohibit that? MR. CLEMENT: Two responses, Justice Breyer. First - QUESTION: Helps other people. MR. CLEMENT: First, I think that the naturalhuman instinct to favor an older worker would be to cut abreak to a worker who's been with the company many years,and if that's what an employer wants to do, it's perfectlyfree under the Age Act to say, if you've been with us years or years, we're going to cut you a break. To theextent that's not the motivation, but it's purely age-based, then there is an indication in the statutoryhistory, and that indication is the colloquy betweenSenators - QUESTION: I thought that was ambiguous, somewhatambiguous. MR. CLEMENT: Well, the colloquy is not at allambiguous. QUESTION: Who - who heard that colloquy? Imean, were they the only two people on the floor? I'mreally supposed to get - (Laughter.) MR. CLEMENT: Justice Scalia, all I can tell youis that - th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. QUESTION: We don't really know, do we? MR. CLEMENT: Justice Scalia, I can tell youthis. The same number of people heard that colloquy asheard the colloquy that this Court relied on between thesame two Senators in interpreting the Age Act in Betts andin United Airlines against McMann. On two occasions thisCourt has recognized that those two Senators haveimportant views on the Age Act because they were theprincipal sponsors and the floor managers of the bill, andas the icing on the cake, the Court relied on SenatorJavits again in the Criswell case. But - QUESTION: How - how much use has the EEOC madeof Section when it can issue exemptions or that sortof thing? MR. CLEMENT: Mr. Chief Justice, I don't know theexact number of times, but I know there is a pendingexemption right now that's been - that's been promulgated- QUESTION: Are there - are there - are thereother exemptions that have actually been granted? MR. CLEMENT: There - there are, Mr. ChiefJustice, and the one that they're working on now is togive employers greater flexibility to coordinate theirretirement benefits with Medicare benefits in response toa Third Circuit decision in the Erie County case - th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. QUESTION: Well, may I ask - MR. CLEMENT: - so that's not just statutoryauthority that's never been used. QUESTION: May I ask you a similar question? Towhat extent has - how many enforcement proceedings has theEEOC commenced to - to enforce the reverse discriminationaspect of this statute? MR. CLEMENT: Justice Stevens, there's one timewhere they did enforce it and that was a full committeeproceeding. The decision was circulated to the fullcommission, so that is a binding decision on thecommission. QUESTION: So they did - there is one example ofan enforcement action? MR. CLEMENT: Right. QUESTION: In all these years, only one? MR. CLEMENT: Well, but there are only a handfulof examples that go the other way and with - I think it'simportant to understand that with respect to the entireuniverse of EEOC decisions, as opposed to Department ofLabor decisions, there's this one decision that comes upin a non-benefits context where they apply the regulation. There are three other decisions that come up in a benefitscontext - QUESTION: In that - in that very context, Mr. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. Clement, you didn't mention this Court's decision inO'Connor against Consolidated Coin, where was it the -year-old had a claim for relief when the -year-old waspreferred. If I understand your argument, you - you aresaying that equally the -year-old would have - have aclaim if the -year-old were preferred? MR. CLEMENT: That's correct, Justice Ginsburg. That's exactly what the Senate colloquy said that - andthat colloquy was picked up in the regulation, which is abinding regulation with notice and comment rule-making. QUESTION: It says in the colloquy - QUESTION: Well, leave - leave - no, please goahead. QUESTION: It says in the colloquy, could notturn down either. MR. CLEMENT: Right. There would be - QUESTION: It doesn't - they were clear, turndown either - MR. CLEMENT: Right. QUESTION: - and choose the other. It could be - can't - MR. CLEMENT: No. It said there would bediscrimination whichever way the decision went, and Idon't think that's all that unusual. I mean, anytime inthe Title VII context that you have an employee who's th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. fired for sex or race - QUESTION: Whichever way it went, if it was - MR. CLEMENT: - somebody will sue. QUESTION: - whichever way it went, if it wasbased on age, I still don't understand how one could hirethe because he discriminates against -year-olds. MR. CLEMENT: I - I think, Justice Stevens, youcould have a presumption or a stereotype that olderworkers are going to be better. I suppose it's also truethat you could have a situation where, for some otherbenefits reason, an older worker wasn't going to have asmany benefits or would get paid less - QUESTION: But the problem with your stereotypeargument that the Government's trying to drive out ofpeople's minds age, just the way it's trying to drive outof people's minds race, sex, and the other things againstwhich you can't discriminate, is that the Governmentdoesn't try to drive it out of their minds, it only - onlyover . Under it's perfectly okay to have these -these - these thoughts of age. You just simply cannotregard this statute as a statute that is directed againstsome moral disapproval of - of taking age into account. MR. CLEMENT: Justice Scalia, the statute, whenit was originally enacted, had the protected class onlybetween and , so I don't think the fact it's - now th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. only has a lower bound tells you anything in particularabout the prohibition. QUESTION: Mr. - MR. CLEMENT: And I thought you said it well forthe Court in the Consolidated Coin case that this is not astatute about protecting individuals against the burden ofbeing over or to protect against over-ism. Itprotects people in the protected class, which is crystal-clearly defined to be individuals over , fromdiscrimination because of age. The Act doesn't care ifthe worker in the protected class who loses out is theyounger of the two. The Act is triggered whenever anindividual in the protected class loses out because of hisor her age. Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice. QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. Clement. Mr. Verrilli, you have minutes remaining. MR. VERRILLI: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice. We're prepared to submit our case. CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: Very well. The Court - the case is submitted. (Whereupon, at : a.m., the case in theabove-entitled matter was submitted.) th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. 