 IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XIOWA, Petitioner ::v. : No. -FELIPE EDGARDO TOVAR. :- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XWashington, D.C.Wednesday, January , The above-entitled matter came on for oralargument before the Supreme Court of the United States at: a.m.APPEARANCES:THOMAS J. MILLER, ESQ., Attorney General, Des Moines, Iowa; on behalf of the Petitioner.MALCOLM L. STEWART, ESQ., Assistant to the SolicitorGeneral, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; onbehalf of the United States, as amicus curiae,supporting the Petitioner.THERESA R. WILSON, ESQ., Des Moines, Iowa; on behalf ofthe Respondent. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. C O N T E N T SORAL ARGUMENT OF THOMAS J. MILLER, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioner MALCOLM L. STEWART, ESQ.On behalf of the United States, as amicus curiae, supporting the Petitioner THERESA R. WILSON, ESQ.On behalf of the Respondent REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OFTHOMAS J. MILLER, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioner PAGE th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. P R O C E E D I N G S(: a.m.)CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: We'll hear argumentnext in No. -, Iowa v. Felipe Edgardo Tovar.General Miller, we'll hear from you.ORAL ARGUMENT OF THOMAS J. MILLERON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERMR. MILLER: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court:The modern guilty plea colloquy, by focusing onand clearly articulating the consequences of pleadingguilty, paralleling the Patterson case, clearly constitutethe -- the intelligent and knowing waiver of counsel inthis particular context. In the modern guilty plea context, among other things, the defendant is told theelements of the crime, the range of the sentence, thefactual bases developed between the judge and thedefendant to assure that his guilt, and in addition,the --QUESTION: Well, if someone is going to pleadguilty, I guess the question may boil down to whether hehas a right to be told the he could be represented by anattorney in making the decision to plead and that it mightbe useful to him to have an attorney's advice in makingthat decision. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. MR. MILLER: Yes, Your Honor. You know, we --QUESTION: It's a guilty plea. It wasn't agoing to trial and he was told certainly of all the thingsthat could be involved in a trial and how an attorneywould be helpful but was not told, I guess, expressly thatif you plead guilty, you can be represented by counsel andthe attorney might give you useful advice.MR. MILLER: Separating the -- the two issues,first, the question of whether he was explicitly told inthis proceeding that he had a right to counsel at thisproceeding. He was not told in that many words. But, youknow, there's -- there's a presumption of regularity herebased on the Johnson case.QUESTION: My goodness, he wasn't told. You'reconceding that he wasn't told he had a right at the pleastage. I thought what they said to him right off the batwas, Mr. Tovar, you're without counsel. I see you waivedapplication for a court-appointed attorney. You want torepresent yourself at today's hearing. So what I thoughtthe State was saying is that that's sufficient.MR. MILLER: Yes.QUESTION: And I didn't even think that was anissue in this case. I didn't see it in the petition. Ididn't see it in the response to the petition. Maybe itwould be an issue for the lower court. So I'm not sure th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. what to do with that. I can see it's ambiguous, but ifyou want to concede it, that's fine with me.MR. MILLER: What -- what I'm saying, YourHonor, is -- is this, that in -- in the total context, heclearly knew that he had a right to counsel and, indeed,that really is the -- the words that submit that --QUESTION: I mean, nobody is really -- at least,is that an issue in front of us?MR. MILLER: You know, I -- I don't -- I don'tthink -- I don't think it should be, Your Honor. QUESTION: I thought it was very much the issuebefore the Iowa Supreme Court because that court said whatwas missing here was information about the utility of alawyer at the plea stage before you enter the plea with you at that hearing. And here, all of the statements maderelate to what you're giving up by pleading guilty and notgoing to trial.Now, I thought, as Justice Breyer did, from thatopening colloquy there was information to the defendantthat he could consult with a lawyer before entering theplea. And I wondered particularly about the form that hesigned. Tovar signed a form waiving counsel before theplea hearing, but that form is nowhere in the record orthe lodging. Does it exist?MR. MILLER: Your -- Your Honor, I -- I don't th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. think he actually signed a form. What -- what did happenis that he was informed at the -- informed at the arrestthrough the Miranda warnings that he had a right tocounsel. And then he went for a initial appearance, andthis is -- this is the part that -- that I think we focuson.At the initial appearance, the judge marked theform saying application for court-appointed counsel, andthen wrote waived. In other words, he had given theopportunity at this initial appearance for counsel. Goingforward, there -- there was no reason to -- to interruptthe initial appearance and having to have counsel at -- atinitial appearance. It was going forward. And then the words that Justice Breyer referred to, when he went to -- went to the plea hearing, the judgesaid, you know, I see that you've -- you've waivedcounsel, and then he says I assume that you want toproceed to represent yourself. So we think that -- that that really satisfiesthe requirement --QUESTION: But do we have the transcript of the-- of that initial hearing where he waived counsel?MR. MILLER: The initial hearing -- thechecklist is in -- is in the documents that -- that weregiven -- given to this Court. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. QUESTION: Well, that wasn't the basis. I -- Ididn't understand that to be the basis of our decisionhere. The -- the Supreme Court of Iowa did, indeed, focuson whether he was advised at -- about how useful counselcould be --MR. MILLER: Yes, Your Honor, that --QUESTION: -- in -- in connection with theguilty plea --MR. MILLER: Yes, Your Honor. That's --QUESTION: -- not that he wasn't advised that hehad a right to counsel. The problem here is he was toldhe had a right to counsel, but it wasn't said, boy, youknow, you'd really be stupid to turn it down. That --that wasn't done. Right?MR. MILLER: That -- that's exactly right.That's what the Iowa Supreme Court held. You know, itwasn't -- it wasn't raised at the district court level. It wasn't raised in the opposition to the cert petition.QUESTION: So what is your -- what everybody Ithink is trying to do is ask you what is your argument onthe point that we thought was why we granted the case, orat least I thought why.MR. MILLER: Yes. QUESTION: What -- what is the reason that theIowa court is wrong -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. MR. MILLER: Yes.QUESTION: -- on -- on the point just as JusticeScalia put it?MR. MILLER: Yes, Your Honor. I think -- Ithink the -- the point is this, that in the plea settingit is very analogous to the Patterson setting and notanalogous to the Faretta setting at -- at going to trialwithout counsel. And -- and the reason for that is, YourHonor, that going through the plea and hearing theelements and going through the factual basis and knowingthe punishments, that's something a person can comprehendand can make a decision on, just like the Court held inPatterson that the decision to answer a question underinterrogation or not under interrogation is something someone could do. But in -- in the trial setting, it is just sodifficult for a person to represent himself in terms ofthe rule of evidence, in terms of strategy, witnesses,choosing the jury. Those are the kinds of things that itis just so difficult. What we do is two things. Weinform the defendant of all those difficulties and byinforming him as -- with a -- with an authority figurelike a judge, we're -- we're pushing him towards counsel.QUESTION: Well, but -- but in -- in the contextof entering a plea, it certainly would be useful for the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. defendant to know that if he had an attorney, the attorneymight take a look at -- at the sobriety tests. He mighttalk with the prosecutor about a plea to the lessercharge, reckless driving. He might talk to the judgeabout a reduced sentence. It didn't happen here becausehe got the minimum. But just as -- as a general matter, your briefseems to suggest that there's -- there's not really muchrole for the attorney at -- in entering a guilty plea. I-- I suggest that there -- there's a very important rolefor him.MR. MILLER: Well, Your Honor, I think -- Ithink there are a number of useful -- useful functions,the ones you described, also collateral consequences. QUESTION: And collateral consequences, yes.MR. MILLER: But -- but generally in exercisingthese rights and describing these rights, you give thegeneral -- the general right, not -- not the specificservices. The -- the Ruiz case indicates that. And inthe Patterson setting, the -- you know, the things that alawyer could do about strategy on the questions or makesure that you weren't tripped up on the questions, thatwas not required by Patterson. It's the -- it's the mainconsequences. It's the direct consequences that Pattersonrequires and that this requires. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. And, Your Honor, if we go into all the usefulthings that an attorney can do -- and -- and certainlythere are many -- then it's -- it's almost an endlesslist. It's a fairly long list. And then we're clutteringup the -- the colloquy. It's already a -- a rather longcolloquy.QUESTION: This -- this comes after, I take it,General Miller, the discussion between the judge and thedefendant as to whether or not the elements of the offenseare present?MR. MILLER: It would -- it would have -- Iguess it would have to come after that. I mean, I think-- I think the factual basis is really the key here.QUESTION: Yes. MR. MILLER: The -- because that's -- that's the-- that's our -- that's our real assurance that guilty --QUESTION: Well, and if -- if the defendantrepresents to the court that the factual basis for theplea is there, that he committed the offense charged, whyis there any great interest in trying to persuade him notto do that?MR. MILLER: You know, I -- I don't think thereis a great interest, Your Honor, and I don't -- I don'tthink -- I don't think the -- the system is served hereparticularly what -- what the Iowa Supreme Court required th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. that, you know, a -- and a lawyer can give you anindependent assessment of -- of whether it's wise to pleadguilty. Obviously, that's something that -- that we knowabout lawyers.And also really subsumed in that, to someextent, is the -- the question of defenses, but it's not a-- it's not a particularly helpful litany that theydeveloped. QUESTION: I --QUESTION: Well, the Iowa court made rather along laundry list of requirements. I suppose you wouldn'thave to go along with all of those things, but I aminterested to know whether you think there is a baselinerequirement that the court advise the defendant in making a plea that he has a right to counsel and the attorneycould be helpful in making that decision. MR. MILLER: Well, I -- I think that -- that hehas to know that he has -- has the right -- right tocounsel. But --QUESTION: You don't think he has to know thatcounsel would be helpful.MR. MILLER: The -- he knows that counsel is --would be helpful. QUESTION: He doesn't have to be told thatcounsel would be helpful. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. MR. MILLER: He doesn't have to be told. Anindividual knows that -- that -- it certainly follows muchlike in Patterson -- knows that the counsel would advisehim whether to ask -- answer the questions or not. Butthat's something someone --QUESTION: But you do agree that he's -- you doagree that the advice should include explicit advice thathe has a right to counsel at the plea hearing.MR. MILLER: He should -- he should know at theplea hearing that he had a right to counsel.QUESTION: But he doesn't have to be told by thejudge that he has a right to counsel at the -- he was not-- this -- in this case he was not told by the judge hehad a right to counsel at that hearing.MR. MILLER: The -- the judge said, you know, I-- I see you -- you made application, which would havebeen for this hearing, for -- you -- you did not makeapplication --QUESTION: Well, why -- why is it clear that itwould be for this hearing because the judge followed up,after saying that, did you want to represent yourself attoday's hearing, which would seem to me to imply that thejudge did not know whether or not he had already decidednot to have counsel at that hearing?MR. MILLER: Well, I think that question was th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. really did you change your mind. I mean --QUESTION: Well, of course --MR. MILLER: -- you made -- you made a decisionat the initial hearing going forward towards this hearingthat you wouldn't have counsel. Have you changed yourmind?QUESTION: Maybe -- maybe you -- you should saythat he should be advised of his right to counsel, but ifhe isn't, it is a harmless mistake if it is clear from therecord that he knew it.MR. MILLER: That -- that certainly would --QUESTION: Even -- even if there is a -- a -- anabsolute right to have the judge tell you you're entitledto counsel, if it's clear on the record at least that you were told, there's -- there's no foul.MR. MILLER: Yes, Your Honor. QUESTION: But it's not clear on this record,though. QUESTION: But that you knew.MR. MILLER: Yes. You know, I -- I think it is. You know, this -- every -- every presumption is -- is inour favor in this kind of collateral setting.QUESTION: Well, if you draw -- drawpresumptions, maybe it is. You presume everything wasregular. Why sure, then it is. But if you just look at th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. what was said to him at the hearing itself, it's not clearthat he knew that he had -- he had waived application fora court-appointed attorney. He didn't necessarily say hewanted to represent himself.MR. MILLER: Well, I -- I think, Your Honor, in-- in the context of the discussion at the initialappearance and then drawing that towards the -- forwardinto the -- the plea -- plea hearing, that -- and -- andcertainly indulging the -- the presumptions here, that --that that -- that he did know. And indeed, to this datehe's not asserted that he didn't know.QUESTION: Well, but the -- all I'm saying isthe record doesn't establish it, and we've been -- in somesituations been rather meticulous about what ought to be on the record because then you solve all the problems ofcollateral attack if the record does disclose it ratherthan relying on presumptions and inferences. That's thepoint. MR. MILLER: Yes. Yes, Your Honor. QUESTION: Where did this case come out of? Ajustice court? It was a misdemeanor, wasn't it, an OWI,operating without a --MR. MILLER: It -- it was, Your Honor. It wouldbe associate district court. It would be a situationwhere there -- there would be a -- would be a judge and -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. who, you know, went through a -- you know, a long colloquywith the -- with -- went through a colloquy concerningrepresentation. QUESTION: But that was basically the rule --what would be in the Federal system, a rule colloquy,and it's all canned. I mean, the -- as the transcriptshows, he -- he went through the -- almost precisely thesame litany on both times. So --MR. MILLER: Yes, Your Honor. It -- itparallels rule . It's -- our rule is -- is verysimilar to -- to rule . And at the -- at the pleahearing, of course, he was asked three times whether hewanted to plea or whether he wanted to -- to go forwardand -- and contest the case and that's -- in that setting. QUESTION: He does have a right to counsel atthe plea hearing. He does have a right if he asserts itto consult with counsel before the hearing takes place,but I -- I think your argument is he doesn't even have tobe told that bare information, never mind the -- thecontinuing spiel about how much a lawyer would be worth tohim, but just the simple statement before you enter thisplea, you're entitled to consult a lawyer. And if youwant a lawyer to be with you at the hearing, you'reentitled to that too.MR. MILLER: What -- what we're saying, Your th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. Honor, is that -- that that was covered by the -- thewords that Justice Breyer mentioned at -- at the outset,that you know, I -- I see you waived application forcounsel at -- at the prior -- it would have been at theprior proceedings, which would have been for thisproceeding, and do you -- you know, do you continue towant to represent yourself.QUESTION: But I think there's somethingimportant afterwards. It's or did you want to take sometime to hire an attorney to represent you, which --QUESTION: That was at the sentencing.QUESTION: -- certainly one inference is that torepresent you at this kind of proceeding. MR. MILLER: Yes, yes, Your Honor. The --the --QUESTION: That -- that was not said at -- athis plea hearing. That was said at his sentencing hearingwhen he pled to another crime that he had committed in theinterim.But at -- the lines of what went on at the pleahearing is I see, Mr. Tovar, you waived application for acourt-appointed attorney. Did you want to representyourself at today's hearing? Period. That was it.MR. MILLER: That -- that was at -- at thatproceeding, and -- and we argue that that -- those are the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. -- those are the key words that really -- really wrap upthis issue, that he was told before he had a right tocounsel at this hearing. There's a referral back. It wasreaffirmed that he wanted to represent himself at -- atthe hearing. As I say, that -- that -- you know, it was notraised by the -- by the defendant at the trial court levelor in the -- or in the resistance to the cert petition. And to this day, they -- they've not asserted that hedidn't know that he had the right to counsel at the -- atthe plea -- at the plea hearing.QUESTION: The States seem to take variouspositions on this. Do you know if any of them have takenit as a matter of their own constitution rather than theFederal Constitution? MR. MILLER: The State has -- has not on this --on this particular issue.QUESTION: Iowa hasn't, but have other States?MR. MILLER: Not -- not that I know of, YourHonor. QUESTION: This -- this being? This being theissue on which we granted cert or the issue of whether youhave to advise him of his right to counsel?MR. MILLER: I -- I was assuming on -- on thematter that was before the Court as -- as a matter of the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. cert petition, that -- that I do not know of otherjurisdictions that decided solely on -- on State grounds.Your Honor, I'd like to reserve my time.QUESTION: Very well, General Miller.Mr. Stewart, we'll hear from you.ORAL ARGUMENT OF MALCOLM L. STEWARTON BEHALF OF THE UNITED STATES,AS AMICUS CURIAE, SUPPORTING THE PETITIONERMR. STEWART: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court:The plea colloquy conducted at respondent's prosecution adequately informed respondent of the dangersand disadvantages of proceeding without counsel. Respondent's waiver of counsel and the guilty plea itself were therefore knowing and intelligent. The judgment ofthe Iowa Supreme Court should be reversed. I think it may be helpful to look first at theprecise language that the Iowa Supreme Court employed inannouncing the warnings that it thought wereconstitutionally required, and if the Court looks at page of the appendix to the certiorari petition, that's theparagraph of the Iowa Supreme Court's opinion that'sentitled Summary and Disposition. And it --QUESTION: Page of what?MR. STEWART: Of the appendix to the certiorari th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. petition.And if you -- if you look in -- in the middle ofthe page, the Iowa Supreme Court in summarizing itsholding said, rather, the trial judge need only advise thedefendant generally that there are defenses to criminalcharges that may not be known by lay persons and that thedanger in waiving of the assistance of counsel in decidingwhether to plead guilty is the risk that a viable defensewill be overlooked. The defendant should be admonishedthat by waiving his right to an attorney, he will lose theopportunity to obtain an -- an opinion on whether underthe facts and applicable law it is wise to plead guilty.In addition, the court must ensure the defendantunderstands the nature of the charges against him and the range of allowable punishments. But the third paragraph is -- is more -- thethird sentence is more or less irrelevant because there'sno dispute here that the defendant was informed of thenature and -- of the charge and the applicablepunishments, and that would be done in any standard pleacolloquy. So it's really just the previous two sentencesthat are at issue, and I think there are some noteworthypoints about these. The first is that the warnings mandated by theIowa Supreme Court don't contain any declarative sentence th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. to the effect that you have a right to represented bycounsel at this plea proceeding. The Iowa Supreme Court Ithink took it as given that respondent had been madeadequately aware that he had a right to counsel and thatwhat was missing was adequate information about theservices that counsel could perform in connection with theplea decision. The second thing is that there's no reference inthese warnings to case-specific issues such as possiblesuppression of evidence or the potential for pleabargaining. The -- the warnings are designed to bewarnings that could be given in every single case. And inour view, the warnings are either vacuous or misleading,depending on how they're interpreted.If they are accurately interpreted asgeneralizations about the criminal justice process, theyreally say nothing more than that as a class lawyers knowmore about the law than people who are not lawyers, andit's at least possible that consulting with a lawyer wouldimprove your chances in this criminal prosecution. And Ithink any defendant who is aware that he has the right tocounsel would be aware of those facts, would be aware ofat least the possibility that a lawyer could help him andthe certainty that a lawyer would know more about thecharges than he would. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. On the other hand, if the defendantmisunderstands these warnings as directed to himpersonally as availed suggestion that there is actually ameritorious defense in his own case, then the defendantmay be given an artificial disincentive to plead guiltyand in the case of a non-indigent defendant may be led tospend his own funds consulting with a lawyer when in factno valid defense exists.QUESTION: Would a Miranda warning be sufficientto advise the -- the defendant that you have a right tocounsel? Period. It's pretty obvious to me that if youhave a right to counsel at interrogation, you certainlyhave a right to one at the plea bargain. Would that besufficient?MR. STEWART: I think it would beconstitutionally sufficient, but it's certainly betterpractice to make sure that the defendant understands thatthe right extends beyond the questioning itself. And Ithink that was done in the initial appearance. Thedefendant -- there's -- there's a form. The defendant isrepresented as having waived his right to application forappointed counsel. I suppose that still leaves open thepossibility that he could have retained counsel if he hadchosen to. But I think that certainly apprised thedefendant of the right -- of -- of the fact that his right th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. to counsel extended beyond the initial questioning itselfand would continue for the duration of the proceedings. And we'd also point out that because this is acollateral challenge, the defendant bears the burden ofestablishing that no knowing and intelligent waiveroccurred. And to the extent that there's a gap in therecord on this point, I think the defendant is properlychargeable with that.I'd also like to return to the point thatJustice Kennedy made earlier about the possibility that insome cases an attorney might be able to obtain suppressionof incriminating evidence or might be able to negotiatewith the prosecution about possible plea bargains. Ithink first it's noteworthy that the standard rule colloquy mentions several constitutional rights that anindividual gives up by pleading guilty, but it doesn'tmention the possibility of suppressing evidence and itdoesn't mention the possibility of plea bargaining. So itwould be odd to think that you could have aconstitutionally valid waiver even though the defendantwas not informed of those substantive possibilities butwould, nevertheless, have to be informed of the assistancethat a lawyer might provide in connection with those --QUESTION: Mr. Stewart, do you know what thegeneral practice is in Federal courts? Are there th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. instructions given to prosecutors to make sure, forexample, that the defendant at a guilty plea is told thatmaybe the -- that he has a right to a lawyer and he mightbe helpful?MR. STEWART: Well, as to the -- it does --Federal Rule of Criminal Procedure in its current formsays that if the defendant appears at the plea hearingwithout counsel, he is to be informed that he has a rightto counsel at trial and at every other stage of theproceedings. So there's clearly a requirement that thedefendant be made aware that he has a right to counsel atthe plea hearing.Neither the Federal Rules of Criminal Procedurenor the bench book for U.S. district judges requires that the defendant be given additional information about theservices that an attorney might provide or the likelihoodthat an attorney could be helpful by --QUESTION: Do you know the practice in -- inother States generally? MR. STEWART: My sense is that there is probablya great deal of variation not only from State to State,but among different courts within different States Ithink, and I think that's probably the -- the likelihoodin the Federal system as well.QUESTION: Well, I -- I suppose my comment was th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. in response to the argument that, well, it really doesn'tmake any difference, which is the -- the intimation I -- Isaw in -- in the brief. And I suppose it doesn't make anydifference because we assume that anybody knows thisstuff?MR. STEWART: I don't think we would assume thatany -- necessarily any layperson would be aware of thepotential for suppressing evidence or the possibility ofnegotiating a plea arrangement. I think any defendantknows more generally that lawyers have legal expertisethat lay people lack. But I think if -- if we try to -- to think abouthow warnings about suppression and plea bargaining mightwork, I think we realize why the Iowa Supreme Court shied away from something like that because, on the one hand, ifthis Court instructed, as a matter of constitutional law,that whenever an uncounseled person pleads guilty, he hasto be informed that in some cases it may be possible tosuppress incriminating evidence and in some cases it maybe possible to negotiate with the prosecution for areduced charge, a lot of defendants are going to be givenfalse hope because the possibility that those modes ofprocedure might succeed would vary enormously.QUESTION: Why -- why wouldn't the same argumentapply to all of the rights that you're going to lose if th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. you plead guilty? Why -- why wouldn't rule be reallylargely unnecessary under your view?MR. STEWART: Well, I -- I think those rulesreally do focus on things that will actually happen in anycriminal trial if the defendant decides not to pleadguilty. That is, the defendant is informed if you pleadguilty, you are waiving the right either to testify or nottestify on your own behalf. You're giving up the right tocounsel. You're giving up the right to cross-examinewitnesses. The defendant really is being told aboutthings that are likely to occur in virtually any criminaltrial, and I think that's -- that's the idea of astandardized plea colloquy.On -- on the other hand, if you're talking about suppression of evidence or talking about plea bargaining,if you give that advice in every case, it's often going tobe misleading. A trial judge is going to find himself inthe position of saying you might be able to bargain withthe prosecution over a reduced charge even though he knowsthat the policy of the prosecutor is not to engage in pleabargaining with respect to a category of cases thatincludes that one.QUESTION: Mr. Stewart, as I understand yourargument, you're -- you're arguing not only are thesewarnings not constitutionally mandated, you're also saying th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. they're probably unwise in a number of situations. Areyou arguing that they're so unwise that we should tell, asa matter of Federal law, a State judge could not givethese warnings?MR. STEWART: No, I don't think there would beany Federal law barrier to States requiring warnings suchas these. And I -- I think the -- the vacuous warnings,the warnings we regard as vacuous, that were mandated bythe Iowa Supreme Court are less likely to be harmful thanmore specific warnings about --But the other point I wanted to make is if theCourt decided that it wouldn't be a good idea to warnabout suppression of evidence or plea bargaining in everycase but maybe it would be advisable to do that in some cases, that would really be thrusting trial judges in anuntenable position because the point of having astandardized plea colloquy is to give judges a -- a safeharbor, to give them some assurance that if they providestandardized advice in every case, that's going to beenough. And if a trial judge had to decide is thelikelihood of a successful plea negotiation sufficientlygreat in this particular case that the defendant should beadvised about it or do I see a viable basis for asking forsuppression of evidence, it would really make the trialjudge's life much more difficult. And if the Court were th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. to hold, as a matter of constitutional law, that the trialjudge is required to do that and can be reversed forfailure to, it would really cause disruption.QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. Stewart.Ms. Wilson, we'll hear from you.ORAL ARGUMENT OF THERESA R. WILSONON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTMS. WILSON: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court:Before a court may accept a guilty plea from anuncounseled defendant, the Constitution requires that thedefendant be advised of the following: of his right tohave counsel present prior to and during entry of theguilty plea, including appointed counsel if necessary; that by waiving counsel, he will lose an independentopinion of his case and on the wisdom of pleading guilty;and that by waiving counsel, he risks overlookingpotential defenses that he as a layperson may notrecognize. These are the minimal standards required for awaiver of plea counsel.QUESTION: Where is it --QUESTION: That -- that isn't what the SupremeCourt of Iowa required in this case, is it? I mean, the-- their warning, as read by Mr. Stewart, was not nearlythat specific. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. MS. WILSON: Correct. The Iowa Supreme Courtapplied the rules of Patterson and Faretta, determiningthat a uncounseled defendant who chooses to plead guiltymust be given a meaningful discussion regarding theusefulness of counsel at the plea proceeding and thedangers of proceeding pro se. The court determined thatthe best way to fulfill that obligation is to advise thedefendant of the risks of overlooking potential defensesand of the loss of an independent opinion regarding hiscase.QUESTION: My -- I guess the difficulty that Ihave with that is no -- no question about the -- thesoundness of those general statements, but they are sogeneral that they -- they raise the question whether there are really very many defendants that don't know that tobegin with and whether there is a real utility inrequiring those warnings and hence paying the price in themistaken cases when they're not given. Do -- dodefendants really need this?MS. WILSON: Yes. We simply cannot infer fromthe fact that a defendant is told that he has counsel orhas a right to counsel that he necessarily understands thesort of assistance counsel could provide. The AmericanBar Association has discussed this particular problem intheir criminal justice standards, specifically part , th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. .. The American Bar Association recognizes that to manydefendants the word counsel may not necessarily have anyclear meaning.QUESTION: Did they say how they knew that?MS. WILSON: No, Your Honor. QUESTION: Did they say -- did they -- I mean,I'm -- I am impressed by the fact that rule (b), whichis a product of the rulemaking process and presumably, I'msure, it reflects the experience of trial lawyers, whichis not my experience, and -- and they try to get in thingslike the ABA. Yet, they do not require that you tell thelawyer how useful -- you tell the -- the individual howuseful the lawyer will be. They do require that you tellthe defendant how -- that he has a right to a lawyer at every stage of the proceeding. So I took from the factthat the ABA and everybody else lobby nonstop for thiskind of thing that they felt it was very desirable but notso important that you had to actually include it in thecolloquy. Otherwise, it would be there in rule (b). So now, what -- what does the ABA say? Do theysay it's a constitutional requirement? Do they try tochange even the rule? No. I don't think they do.MS. WILSON: No.QUESTION: But you're -- you're saying that theConstitution requires the thing that the lawyers th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. themselves through their groups have felt is desirable butnot important enough to put in the rules. Wouldn't we goto the rules first?MS. WILSON: Not necessarily. Under -- underPatterson, under Faretta, even as -- back as far asJohnson v. Zerbst, this Court has required that any waiverof a constitutional right be a voluntary, knowing, andintelligent abandonment or relinquishment of a known rightor privilege.QUESTION: But, Ms. Wilson, you know, as to howmuch that requires, when we invented the Miranda warning,we -- we simply required that -- that the defendant betold you have a right to counsel. We didn't -- we didn'tsay that he be told, and by the way, the first thing counsel will tell you is to shut up, which would be verygood advice. (Laughter.) QUESTION: We didn't require that. We just saidyou have a right to counsel. And -- and you want us to --to elaborate upon the Miranda warning as well?MS. WILSON: The -- those particular warningswere used both in the Miranda case and in the Pattersoncase, Sixth Amendment right to counsel at post-indictmentquestioning. In both of those cases, a defendant stillhas other alternatives even if he does make statements to th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. the police. He can attempt to recant his statement. Hemay have other available defenses. If a defendant appearsbefore a court to enter a guilty plea uncounseled, thatadmission is going to be conclusive proof of guilt,leading to a final conviction that isn't revocable.QUESTION: Why -- even on this very record, whenhe came for the sentencing, the judge did say, as JudgeKennedy -- Justice Kennedy pointed out, that are you sureyou don't want more time to consider having counsel. Andone of the questions I was going to ask you is given thatthe judge was so solicitous at the sentencing hearing,could the defendant at that point have said, judge, I'vethought about what I did at the plea hearing and I'dreally like to withdraw my plea? I think you're right. I need more time to consult a lawyer.MS. WILSON: He -- the defendant would have beenable to file a motion in arrest of judgment. I do notrecall off the top of my head if that deadline had passedby the time of his sentencing. I believe it needs to befiled within days of sentencing. So he may not havebeen able to do that procedurally.QUESTION: But the judgment is entered onlyafter the sentence, I would assume. Is that correct inIowa?MS. WILSON: Correct. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. QUESTION: So it -- it just seemed to me that ajudge, being so solicitous about this crime that didn'tcarry any jail time, would -- would certainly say the onethat does carry jail -- jail time, yes, you think you wantto talk to a lawyer? It's okay. We'll hold it inabeyance and you talk to your lawyer.MS. WILSON: Correct. The -- the discussionthat the court had with Mr. Tovar was very abbreviated atthe arraignment. At the time the court gave itsdiscussion, I see you're appearing here today withoutcounsel, do you wish to proceed pro se, the district courthad no idea whether Mr. Tovar was going to enter a plea ofguilty or not guilty. And unfortunately, a defendant inthat situation may come into a court believing that he does not have a right to counsel simply because he's goingto plead guilty. Nothing that district court would havetold him up to that point would have dissuaded him fromsuch a belief.QUESTION: Is -- is there any allegation in thiscase that the defendant didn't know he had a right toappointed counsel for the plea? That allegation has notbeen made before, has it? MS. WILSON: No, and I do want to address that.QUESTION: Are you making it now?MS. WILSON: I am indicating that the record th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. simply doesn't show whether the defendant had anyknowledge of the right to plea counsel, andunfortunately --QUESTION: No, but that's not an issue in thiscase, is it?MS. WILSON: It is and -- and the -- the Statedid say that this issue was not addressed in the IowaSupreme Court. And it may be an error on my part I didnot raise it as a denial of counsel case. But in fact, inthe brief filed before the Iowa Supreme Court and the IowaCourt of Appeals, I did raise the fact that Mr. Tovar wasnot informed that he had a right to plea counsel, that theonly discussion of the right to counsel at that pleahearing was in the context of the right to counsel at trial he was waiving.QUESTION: But in any case, you -- you didn'tcross petition and you didn't raise this in the brief inopposition I take it.MS. WILSON: Correct.QUESTION: We're -- all of this -- it goes backto a prior conviction not his most recent one I take it,and all the facts we're talking about were at -- thoseassociated with the prior conviction, not this more recentone.MS. WILSON: Correct. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. The -- the reason that the issue of whether hewas informed of plea counsel is important is because thatis the first requirement for a valid waiver of counsel. The first requirement is an intentional relinquishment ofa known right. This means that a defendant must be madeaware that he has a constitutional right. According toMiranda v. Arizona, the only way to ensure that is to tellthe defendant that he has the right.QUESTION: All right. So if we agree with youabout that, the thing to do is send it back. MS. WILSON: Yes.QUESTION: Is that right?MS. WILSON: Yes. QUESTION: And they can decide it. MS. WILSON: Correct, Your Honor. QUESTION: I mean, we can't decide it. I mean,we could decide it but I guess it's not really fairlyraised, is it?MS. WILSON: Correct. That -- that is an optionfor the Court, Your Honor. Correct. QUESTION: Send it back.QUESTION: Do we usually do that, send -- say,you know, search the record for other possible failures ofthe lower court --MS. WILSON: No, Your Honor. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. QUESTION: -- that haven't been raised and thensend the thing back?MS. WILSON: No, Your Honor. QUESTION: Why should we do it here?MS. WILSON: Again, it -- it was raised below. Unfortunately, the Iowa Supreme Court did not directlyaddress it. And it is part of the waiver analysis. QUESTION: Well, but you didn't cross -- asJustice Souter --MS. WILSON: No.QUESTION: -- you didn't cross-petition.MS. WILSON: No.QUESTION: You didn't put it in your brief inopposition.MS. WILSON: No.QUESTION: Well, I guess if we just -- what we'dnormally do here is we say -- suppose we didn't agree withyour -- on your basic argument. We say, well, you lose onthat one. Now we send it back from appropriateproceedings, whatever is appropriate. I don't know. Atthat point, I guess you'd go back to the Iowa court andyou'd say you didn't address this other issue which I hadin my brief.MS. WILSON: Correct.QUESTION: Is there a reason we can't do that? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. I don't know. MS. WILSON: No, Your Honor. There -- there'sno -- I don't see any reason why this Court couldn't dothat.QUESTION: The -- the Court usually remands forproceedings not inconsistent with this opinion. MS. WILSON: Correct.QUESTION: And -- and if the Court justaddresses what's before them, whether the sentences thatMr. Stewart read to us whether the -- if the Court decidesit, that's not what the Constitution requires, then itvacates or reverses and remands and Iowa could take itfrom there.MS. WILSON: Correct, Your Honor, but the -- the point at which the Iowa Supreme Court did decide is -- isstill a valid point, that regarding whether there needs tobe a brief discussion regarding the usefulness of counseland the dangers of proceeding pro se.QUESTION: So how do you deal with the questionthat was posed that it raises a false hope, and if youtell a defendant a lawyer might know defenses that youdon't know, but wouldn't the defendant then ask the judge,Judge, would you please tell me what those defenses mightbe?MS. WILSON: And then the appropriate response th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. from the court would be, I can't advise you. I'm not yourattorney. If you believe anything I've said here raisessome doubts, speak with an attorney. Otherwise, we couldproceed with the guilty plea if you wish.QUESTION: But the attorney is going to cost me$ an hour. Give me a break. Let me know whether it'sgoing to be worth it or not. And the judge will say,sorry, I can't say anything about that.MS. WILSON: That's exactly correct, Your Honor.QUESTION: You ought to know that attorneys areuseful. That's -- that -- do you think that's aconsiderable help? You ought to know that attorneys areuseful?MS. WILSON: It at least indicates that thedefendant has been given some warning regarding how anattorney may assist him. And again, the -- the ABA saysthat the fact that you just merely tell a defendant thathe has a right to counsel, it doesn't necessarily help.QUESTION: Was it in this case that the judgetold the defendant he was not entitled to free counselbecause he was dependent on his parent where he was goingto Ames or something like that?MS. WILSON: That was at the sentencing hearing. Mr. Tovar did make an application for court-appointedcounsel that was denied because he was dependent upon his th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. parents as a college student.This case essentially falls into a -- a gapbetween Patterson and Faretta. Both of those casesrequire some discussion regarding the usefulness ofcounsel and the dangers of proceeding pro se. The IowaSupreme Court attempted to fill that gap by requiringthese particular admonishments. But these admonishmentsreflect the core responsibility of defense counsel at aplea proceeding and also are responsibilities this Courthas recognized in previous cases.QUESTION: Do you know any other jurisdictionthat has required such a -- a litany of warnings before aplea could be accepted?MS. WILSON: Specific litany? No. I do believePennsylvania rules do provide a -- a six-point litany, Ibelieve. But I would direct the Court's attention to thebrief filed by the National Legal Aid and Defender -- yes-- National Legal Aid and Defender Association in thiscase that outlines the various requirements in both thecircuits and the States. The majority -- about half ofthe jurisdictions in this Nation have not discussed thisparticular issue, waiver of counsel at a plea proceeding. Of those that have, the majority have either required orpreferred a Faretta type colloquy for waiver of counsel at th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. a plea proceeding. All the Federal circuits that havediscussed this issue have applied that standard. States --QUESTION: You say applied that standard. Youmean imposed it as a constitutional requirement? MS. WILSON: Have either required or preferred adiscussion of the dangers of proceeding pro se at a pleaproceeding. QUESTION: When you say preferred, what do youmean by that? MS. WILSON: It -- the failure to use thoseparticular standards may create a rebuttable presumption,but the other factors in the case may show that adefendant did validly understand or did understand the right to counsel.QUESTION: And did the -- you're talking aboutnow Federal courts of appeals? MS. WILSON: Federal circuits.QUESTION: And -- and they held this as a matterof Federal constitutional law?MS. WILSON: I -- I believe so. I believe theNinth Circuit did.QUESTION: Any other circuits?MS. WILSON: I can't remember off the top of myhead. Again, I would -- I would direct the Court's th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. attention to that brief. Only States that have considered this issuedo not require a Faretta type colloquy. Some of those douse the -- the plea colloquy. But I guess it -- it's -- this issue, though ithasn't been directly addressed in the brief, but obviouslyit's a concern of the States whether this may haveretroactive effect or whether it's prospective effect asfar as its effect on recidivist statutes. Mr. Tovar wouldargue that these standards, if adopted, could be appliedprospectively because they do create a new rule. Althoughthey are certainly inspired by Patterson and by Faretta,these particular admonishments are not required by thosecases, and again, those cases do not address the particular context of a plea proceeding. It --QUESTION: In your brief, Ms. Wilson -- let memake sure I've got the right one. Yes. In your table ofauthorities, you have a number of cases from this Courtand then you have a number of State cases which seem to bemostly Iowa cases. MS. WILSON: Correct.QUESTION: And then you don't cite any Federal-- Federal cases such as the ones I presume you werereferring to. Was there some reason, if -- if they th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. support you, why you didn't put them in your brief?MS. WILSON: It was a cooperative effort betweenmy office and the National Legal Aid and DefenderAssociation. QUESTION: And which one dropped the ball? (Laughter.) MS. WILSON: I -- I can't honestly answer that,Your Honor. But even assuming other jurisdictions do not usethese particular standards, the burden upon the State willbe alleviated for a number of reasons. First, if for example, Iowa wanted to use aguilty plea from another jurisdiction for enhancement, adefendant would have the burden of proof on a collateral attack. If these standards were not used, that may createa presumption that the waiver was invalid. However, theState could certainly attempt to prove the validity of thewaiver through other means.In addition, if the other jurisdiction does notuse these standards -- some of the claims are simply goingto be time-barred. For example, in Iowa after directappeal, there is a -year window of opportunity for adefendant to apply for post-conviction relief. So Mr.Tovar, who did not apply for a direct appeal of his guiltyplea and did not for a post-conviction relief, would be th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. time-barred from challenging it now. The --QUESTION: Now, what if under -- under Iowa lawyou have a case like the present one? When this case --the -- Tovar pleaded -- rather, he -- he pleaded notguilty. He went to trial, didn't he? And supposing thatthe prior conviction is years old, can he not challengethat under Iowa law when he appeals as -- as an enhancingfactor?MS. WILSON: Do you -- can you rephrase thequestion. I'm not quite sure.QUESTION: Yes. What -- what I'm concernedwith, take the -- the present case. The defendant pleadsnot guilty, goes to trial, the jury finds him guilty. Andone of the bases for sentencing is that years ago hepleaded guilty to a similar crime but didn't get thesewaivers. Under Iowa law, could he challenge that -year-old conviction as an aggravating -- or whatever you wantto call it on appeal from his present conviction?MS. WILSON: I -- I would assume so, Your Honor. There's also a procedure in -- in Iowa law, Iowa Rule ofCriminal Procedure .() that would actually permit adefendant to challenge the use of that prior convictionprior to the sentencing enhancement. Now, the State mayhave an argument if he did not do that. Then the argument th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. would be waived.QUESTION: Is there any limit on how many yearsback you go for enhancing prior convictions?MS. WILSON: It depends on the particularstatute, Justice Ginsburg. In -- in Iowa for the OWI,it's years. For domestic abuse, it's years. Forharassment, it is years. There's habitual offendersentencing enhancement that does not contain any deadlinefor use of prior convictions.QUESTION: What was the sentence imposed in thiscase for the -- for the third offense?MS. WILSON: Third offense. It's -- the -- theparticular sentence in this case was days, all but suspended, and a $, fine. The maximum permitted by statute would be years in prison.Also, I do want to address a point that Ibelieve Justice Kennedy raised earlier regarding howcounsel may have been useful here given that he -- giventhat Mr. Tovar received the mandatory minimum for aconviction in his guilty plea.It is true Mr. Tovar did receive the mandatoryminimum for his conviction for OWI first. Unfortunately,under the statute in effect at the time, Mr. Tovar alsowould have been eligible for a deferred judgment. This issomething apparently the prosecutor did not offer to Mr. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. Tovar and it's something the district court did not advisehim regarding. It is something that had counsel beenpresent, it would have benefitted Mr. Tovar who would havebeen a prime candidate for a deferred judgment. Also, I want to address the contention that a --the factual basis discussion inherent in a guilty pleahelps to ensure that a defendant is pleading guilty to thecorrect crime. Unfortunately, that's not always the caseand I can provide an analogy. Defendant is charged with forgery for writingchecks on another person's account. The district courtholds a factual basis colloquy with the defendant, asksthe defendant did you make out these checks, and beforedoing this, advises the defendant that it cannot accept his guilty plea unless it has a factual basis to supportthe conviction. The court asks the defendant, did youmake out these checks? Defendant says, yes. Minutes of testimony don't indicate whether hesigned his name or the other person's name. The defendanthimself does not say at the guilty plea whether he signshis name or the other person's name. Under Iowa law, inorder to be guilty of forgery, a person must do an actpurporting to be the act of another. If defendant signshis own name to that check, it's not forgery.QUESTION: Well, that would be the judge's fault th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. then in -- in not assuring that he was aware of all of theelements of the crime. MS. WILSON: Correct. QUESTION: I mean, all you're saying is thejudge can make a mistake.MS. WILSON: Correct. QUESTION: But I mean, even if we grant what youwant in this case, judges will still be able to makemistakes.MS. WILSON: Correct, but unfortunately --QUESTION: If he doesn't make a mistake, hewould know all the elements of the crime. Right? MS. WILSON: Um-hum. And unfortunately, in -- in the situation of an uncounseled defendant, as in that case, the defendantwouldn't know that he's not legally guilty, that there wasno factual --QUESTION: But in this case -- this case I don'tthink you can raise any such --MS. WILSON: No.QUESTION: -- thing because it was a -- a bloodalcohol test that did him in, and he didn't dispute theresults of that test.MS. WILSON: Correct. There may have -- in anOWI case, your mostly likely defenses are going to be th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. suppression, implied consent. Mr. Tovar didn't make anyof those challenges in this case. He may have had them.QUESTION: Well, I'll ask you the same questionI -- I asked of General Miller. If in fact the defendanthere, Mr. Tovar, says, yes, I was guilty of driving underthe influence and I know that the test said that and Idon't disagree with it, what public policy is there to tryto get him to change his mind because you might havesuppressed some of that evidence? MS. WILSON: We're not attempting to makedefendants change their mind. What Mr. Tovar and the IowaSupreme Court is hoping to do is to ensure that adefendant knows exactly what they're getting into whenthey plead guilty, that they know that they have the availability of counsel and the basic services counsel canprovide, and therefore they will be pleading guiltyuncounseled with their eyes open.The -- the plea colloquy suggested -- or thewaiver colloquy suggested by the Iowa Supreme Court is notunduly burdensome.QUESTION: Can I ask? Like the Chief, I'm --I'm not sure that as a matter of public policy I -- I even-- even like what -- what you're suggesting even if itwere made very, very simple. That is to say, we've gonethrough the elements of the crime and you acknowledge that th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. you've committed all of them. What you ought to know,however, is that if you got an attorney, he might findsome gimmick that would allow you not to be convicted ofthis crime even though you have committed it. You shouldknow that because it's your right, you know, to know thatyou can get off even where you're guilty. Now, is thissomething that we really want to encourage? (Laughter.) QUESTION: So long as you've told the individualthese are the elements, are you sure you did it, why --why isn't that all that the State should require? We wantto encourage people to -- to confess. We want toencourage people, when they're guilty, to pay what used tobe called their just debt to society. Why do we want to encourage them to -- to hire a lawyer so that they'll getoff on a -- on an irrelevancy?MS. WILSON: It is doubtful that these -- these-- well, I'll rephrase that.The colloquy suggested by the Iowa Supreme Courtis certainly not going to prevent anyone from pleadingguilty. The State speaks of the defendant who wants toexpeditiously accept responsibility. That person is morethan likely going to plead guilty regardless of the lengthof the colloquy given by the court. However, what -- theonly person that may possibly be deterred by this sort of th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. a colloquy is the defendant who's already experiencingdoubts as to -- to his decision of whether to pleadguilty.QUESTION: Do you think it would be valuable inCalifornia to have somebody there to say, by the way, thisis the second time you've stolen a chicken and if youplead guilty and do it again, you may go to jail the restof your life? Or if you're in, say, Alaska, this seems tobe an assault case but it's connected, in fact, with thecharge of sexual assault. So if you plead guilty, therest of your life you're going to have to be registered asa sex offender. Or to say, for example, if you'reimmigrant, you know, it may not seem to be important toyou because it just happened to be hitting your child or something, you know, a slap or something like that, butyou're going to be deported likely if you plead guilty. Would it be useful to have a lawyer there to tell themthat?MS. WILSON: Absolutely, Your Honor, because thedistrict court isn't necessarily required to tell thedefendant such things and we're seeing in cases likeLockyear v. Andrade, Ewing v. California where pettyoffenses, because they are tied in with recidiviststatutes, are creating life sentences. And it would makesense to have an attorney. If we're going to have this th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. robust system of recidivist statutes, then we should alsohave a robust system of safeguards to ensure that adefendant's due process rights are protected.The -- the plea -- the waiver colloquy suggestedby the Iowa Supreme Court is not going to inhibit the pleaprocess. Again, it's adding a few lines to the colloquythat's already required for the acceptance of guiltypleas.Furthermore, such a standard would actuallyassist the State in the long run. These standards placesthe waiver colloquy on the record for all to see. Thisassists not only the initial court in making the waiverdecision as an initial decision, but it also assists anyfuture court that may have to make a determination of the validity of the waiver.QUESTION: Well, if the Iowa Supreme Courtthinks so, it could put it in the Iowa rules.MS. WILSON: Yes.QUESTION: And that -- that's how it would be.MS. WILSON: Correct. They could do that.QUESTION: In this case, the Iowa Supreme Courtis projecting what it would be law for the Nation.MS. WILSON: Correct. It was making aninterpretation of -- of Patterson and Faretta to the pleacontext. That's correct. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. But for all these reasons, we would respectfullyrequest that this Court affirm the decision of the IowaSupreme Court. QUESTION: Thank you, Ms. Wilson.General Miller, you have minutes remaining.REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF THOMAS J. MILLERON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERMR. MILLER: I would just pick up on -- onJustice Ginsburg's question or comment there that in termsof usefulness of counsel, there's a -- you know, we'veexplored a lot of difficulties and cross currents heretoday. What should happen is the States, as a matter of-- of the legislature or as a matter of the -- the court,making rules that -- that deal with these issues, rather than having a constitutional mandate for the wholecountry.With that, I would close except if there areother questions from the Court.CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: Thank you, GeneralMiller.The case is submitted.(Whereupon, at : p.m., the case in theabove-entitled matter was submitted.) th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. 