IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XKEVIN WIGGINS, Petitioner ::v. : No. -SEWALL SMITH, WARDEN, ET AL. :- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XWashington, D.C.Monday, March , The above-entitled matter came on for oralargument before the Supreme Court of the United States at: a.m.APPEARANCES:DONALD B. VERRILLI, JR., ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalfof the Petitioner.GARY E. BAIR, Solicitor General, Baltimore, Maryland; onbehalf of the Respondents.DAN HIMMELFARB, ESQ., Assistant to the Solicitor General,Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on behalf ofthe United States, as amicus curiae, supporting theRespondents. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC C O N T E N T SORAL ARGUMENT OF DONALD B. VERRILLI, JR., ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioner GARY E. BAIR, ESQ.On behalf of the Respondents DAN HIMMELFARB, ESQ.On behalf of the United States,PAGEas amicus curiae, supporting the Respondents REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OFDONALD B. VERRILLI, JR., ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioner th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC P R O C E E D I N G S(: a.m.)CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: We'll hear argumentnext in Number -, Kevin Wiggins versus Sewall Smith.Mr. Verrilli.ORAL ARGUMENT OF DONALD B. VERRILLI, JR.ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERMR. VERRILLI: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court:Under the clearly established law of Stricklandv. Washington, a lawyer's decision about how to defend aclient facing a death sentence must be supported either bya thorough investigation or by a reasonable professionaljudgment supporting limitation on investigation.In this case, the Maryland Court of Appeals and the Fourth Circuit applied that rule in an objectivelyunreasonable manner. Kevin Wiggins' lawyers did notfulfill what this Court described in Williams againstTaylor as their obligation under Strickland to investigatethoroughly their client's background, and no reasonableprofessional judgment in fact supports or could supporttheir failure to do so.QUESTION: Do you think the Williams case is awhite horse for you, that is, I mean, that it's exactlyidentical to this case? th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC MR. VERRILLI: I do not think it's exactlyidentical to this case, Your Honor, but we think itclearly informs this case both by explaining what an --what an objectively unreasonable application of Stricklandamounts to and in emphasizing the critical importance ofinvestigating a -- a -- your client's background as -- asa prerequisite to making informed, reasonable choicesabout how best to defend your client.QUESTION: But -- but wasn't Williams decidedafter the Maryland Supreme Court's opinion here?MR. VERRILLI: Yes, it was Justice Scalia,but --QUESTION: So, therefore, it can't be used forpurposes of deciding whether what Maryland did was anunreasonable application of then-existing Federal law. MR. VERRILLI: I disagree with that, JusticeScalia, for the following reason. Williams, like thiscase, was an AEDPA case and all Williams could do wasdecide whether Strickland had been unreasonably applied. Williams was -- because Williams was an AEDPA case, was a(d)() case, Williams could break no new ground bydefinition, and therefore, the -- the fact that Williamsconcluded what it did about Strickland's requirement,means that that is what Strickland requires. And that --and -- and so we don't think it -- we're going beyond th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC AEDPA in the least.QUESTION: Yet, you go back to Strickland andyou can't find the principle that you're now enunciating.MR. VERRILLI: Oh, no, no. I disagree withthat, Mr. Chief Justice. We think it's right on page and of -- of Strickland, and here's the principle thatwe think -- Strickland specifically says, as we read it,that a lawyer's judgment about how to defend a client haseither got to be based on complete investigation or, ifit's based on less than complete investigation, it'sreasonable only to the extent that reasonable professionaljudgment supports the limitation on investigation. That'sthe rule.QUESTION: Last year in Bell -- Bell versusCohen -- Cone, we stressed that it is a tremendously deferential regard that we have to the lawyer's action ina case like that.MR. VERRILLI: Yes, but there's a fundamentaldifference between this case and Bell v. Cone, Mr. ChiefJustice, and it's this. Bell v. Cone was not a case aboutthe failure to investigate. That was purely a case aboutcounsel's decisions about what information to present tothe sentencer after having done what was indisputably athorough investigation.And the reason that's critical is because as -- th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC as we read Strickland, the whole point of the deferencegiven to counsel's choices about what to present ispremised on the adequacy of the investigation thatprecedes them. That is what the source of the deferentialstance towards presentation is. It's the adequacy ofinvestigation.QUESTION: Is that what this case is about,Mr. Verrilli, about failure to investigate?MR. VERRILLI: This case is about both, but it'sprincipally about --QUESTION: It would seem to me if it were, youwould have to establish pretty clearly that counsel didnot know these many things that you say he did not know. And in fact, counsel was never asked the question, did youknow this, did you know that, did you know -- we don't know what counsel --I -- I'm looking at the joint appendix onpage . He knew a lot of these things. He's -- he's --he's asked did you know that Wiggins had been removed fromhis natural mother as a result of a finding of neglect andabuse when he was years old? Yes, he says, I knew that. That was in the social service records. So you knew it. Yes.You also knew that there were reports of sexualabuse at one of the foster homes. Yes, he knew that. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC You also knew he had his hands burned as a childas a result of his mother's abuse of him. Yes, he knewthat.You also knew about homosexual overtures madetowards him by his Job Corps supervisor. Yes.And you also knew he was -- he was borderlinementally retarded. Yes.Now, that -- that examination could have --could have gone further, but you didn't know, did you,this, this, this, this, and this. There's no examinationlike that. We know that he knew many things about thisperson's background, but we don't know that he didn't knowthe rest of it.MR. VERRILLI: I disagree with that, JusticeScalia.know it?QUESTION: Well, how do we know that he didn'tMR. VERRILLI: Well, here's how. There -- thereare two absolutely compelling reasons, but before I get tothem, I think it's important to look at the very nextthing that the lawyer says in that colloquy. And the verynext thing the lawyer says is, well, yes, at least I knewwhat was reported in other people's reports. And that iswhat led the Maryland Court of Appeals to the conclusionit reached, which was that the social service records and th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC the pre-sentence records, other people's reports,contained that information, and we have shown by clear andconvincing evidence that they do not.But there are two additional points that arecritical here, and the first one is this. The trier offact, the actual judge who heard that testimony --QUESTION: I -- I have to correct you. That --he -- he didn't say that all of this that he knew he onlyknew because it was in other people's reports. Thequestion was -- he had just said -- and you also knew thathe was borderline mentally retarded. Yes.He -- then another question is begun. You knewall -- he interrupts the question and he says, at least Iknew that as it was reported in other people's reports,yes. The that was the fact that he was borderline mentally retarded.MR. VERRILLI: Justice Scalia, that is not howthe --QUESTION: That's how it reads.MR. VERRILLI: -- Maryland Court of Appeals readit. It is not how the Fourth Circuit read it.QUESTION: The court of appeals and the FourthCircuit must have read it wrong because that's the way itreads.MR. VERRILLI: But -- but, Justice Scalia, what th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC matters here for AEDPA purposes under (d)() is whetherthe court of appeals based its determination on anunreasonable factual finding, and there are two -- thereare two critical indicia here that it did. The firstone -- the first one is this. Well, there are three.First, the records don't contain theinformation.Second, the trier of fact, the judge who heardthis testimony, concluded -- and this is at page and of the joint appendix -- that Mr. Schlaich, the lawyerwho gave that testimony, did not know what was in thesocial -- what was in the social history subsequentlyprepared.QUESTION: This was in the trial itself or in aState habeas proceeding?MR. VERRILLI: In the State habeas proceeding,Your Honor. His -- at the conclusion of his testimony andduring closing argument by the -- by the government inthat State habeas proceeding, the -- the trier of fact whoheard the testimony, could assess demeanor, could assesscredibility, heard all the other evidence, saw all theother evidence, concluded that he didn't know and found itwas error.And then -- and the next point that we thinkconclusively demonstrates that -- that the lawyers did not th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC know is this. Remember that -- that at the close of thesentencing proceeding, not the post-conviction proceeding,Mr. Chief Justice, but the actual sentencing proceeding,counsel for Wiggins made a proffer of what mitigatingevidence they would have submitted to the sentencing juryhad their motion to bifurcate been granted. That profferdoesn't mention any of the mitigating evidence that --that we have shown in the social history -- doesn'tmention the terrible abuse of the first years of hislife. It doesn't mention the horrible burning incident. It doesn't mention the sexual abuse. It doesn't mentionthe homelessness. There's no conceivable reason whycounsel would have withheld all of that information fromits proffer at the conclusion of the sentencing phase ofthe proceeding if counsel knew that and could --QUESTION: So that counsel referred to otherpeople's reports and other reports. Can we draw anyinference from the record that there were some reportsother than the -- I take it it's the social -- socialservices report?MR. VERRILLI: Well, I think there was --QUESTION: And the pre-sentence and social --MR. VERRILLI: Pre-sentence.QUESTION: -- and social services? Were thereany other documents that -- th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC MR. VERRILLI: The -- there is a document whichthe State has lodged which indicates that there weretranscripts of interviews with family members. Thosearen't in the record, but I think the same exact analysis,the same exact inference has to be drawn. If those hadincluded the kind of terrible descriptions of -- of abuse,it would have shown up in the psychologist's reportbecause, after all, what that document shows is thepsychologist got those interviews and it would have shownup in the proffer because that is the most --QUESTION: And -- and the psychologist's is thesocial -- social services report.MR. VERRILLI: No. That's separate --QUESTION: That's a separate report.MR. VERRILLI: That's a separate --QUESTION: That's exactly my -- look, there is adocument here called lodging and it says, Baltimore CityDepartment of Social Services Department File. Now, inlooking through it briefly, I cannot find in it all thereferences that you say are not in it.MR. VERRILLI: They are --QUESTION: I don't think they're there.MR. VERRILLI: They are not there.QUESTION: But this says, other people'sreports, and I'm perhaps going to hear in about minutes th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC from now that there could be other reports to which he wasreferring which are not in this document and which mightbe those other -- those other interviews with otherpeople, et cetera. In other words, I don't want you tosit down -- it's -- it's one thing if I'm supposed to lookat this document and say did this lawyer investigate thebackground, and the answer I think would be no. But it'squite another thing if he knew all kinds of other thingsfrom other sources, namely about the burned hands, all thethings you've listed. So I want to be sure.Now, you're referring me one other thing, theproffer. But in respect to the proffer, since I've readthe briefs, I suspect I will hear the following. Ofcourse, he didn't want to proffer this. His strategicdecision was to make the jury think that this man might not have done it, and the more lunatic we make him sound,the more the jury is going to think the opposite.MR. VERRILLI: Justice Breyer, let me -- letme --QUESTION: Or I suspect I'll hear that becauseI've read it.MR. VERRILLI: Let me address --QUESTION: So I would like you --MR. VERRILLI: Let me address that directlybecause I think this goes the essence of why the Maryland th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC Court of Appeals judgment was an unreasonable applicationof -- of the Strickland rule, and it's this.The proffer occurred in the following context. Counsel for Wiggins made a motion to bifurcate thesentencing proceeding so that they could first retry thefactual case of eligibility, and then if they lost, theycould then put on the full-blown mitigation case.QUESTION: That would have involved theprincipal issue had they -- as a separate --MR. VERRILLI: Right. Bifurcation would havefirst involved the principalship, and then hadprincipalship been established to the jury's satisfaction,they would have moved to the issue of mitigation. Andthe -- and the trial judge denied that motion. Now, hedenied that motion -- this is critical -- on the first day of the sentencing hearing. So up to the first day of thesentencing hearing, Kevin Wiggins' lawyer's strategy wasobviously to prepare both a principalship case and amitigation case because they made a motion that wasdesigned to allow them to do precisely that. So there isno conceivable justification for them to have failed to doeverything a reasonable lawyer would have done to developa mitigation case.And they -- and what the proffer shows -- I'mafraid the proffer cannot, Justice Breyer, be explained on th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC the basis that Your Honor described for this reason. Thepoint of the proffer -- the point of the proffer was toshow the judge and to create a record on appeal of whatthey would have shown had the bifurcation been granted andthey could have tried their mitigation case. This profferwas their mitigation case.QUESTION: What about the first part which wasJustice Kennedy's part, I think so far all of our parts --questions, which is when you read just the part thatJustice Scalia read to you -- and he says it's on thebasis of other people's reports -- will the other sideconcede or how do we know it's -- what he's referring tois this document rather than some other set of documents?MR. VERRILLI: Well, I think what's critical inthat regard is what the Maryland Court of Appeals found because what AEDPA requires deference to is factualfindings made by a State court. And what the -- and thefactual finding that the Maryland Court of Appealsfound -- made is on page of the appendix to thepetition in the -- in the second paragraph there. It --it says, counsel was indeed aware of Wiggins' unfortunatebackground. They had available to them not only thepre-sentence investigation, but detailed social servicerecords documenting sexual abuse and physical abuse.That is the sum and substance, the total, of th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC what the Maryland Court of Appeals said in terms of thefacts here. It's the sole factual finding. That factualfinding --QUESTION: Did it say, and nothing else? Did itsay, and nothing else?MR. VERRILLI: It said --QUESTION: You're -- you're making it as thoughit was a factual finding that this is all that he knew. Now, they knew that he knew that, but they didn't make afactual finding that he didn't know anything else.MR. VERRILLI: They -- the factual -- the onlyfactual finding they made -- the only -- the only -- theonly thing that supports and explicates the generalstatement at the outset of that paragraph that they wereaware of his unfortunate childhood is the specific factual finding that the social service records documented sexualabuse and documented physical abuse. We've shown by clearand convincing evidence that that finding is wrong.And then under (d)() in AEDPA the question iswhether the Maryland Court of Appeals' judgment was -- wasbased on an -- an unreasonable factual determination. Andwe've shown that the only thing that they found --QUESTION: Mr. Verrilli, I'd like to come backto the habeas -- the State habeas decision that you --that you cited us to, which is on the joint appendix th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC page . Now, as I understand it, if you're making aclaim of failure to investigate, the burden is on you toshow that counsel did not know things that he would havelearned on investigation. The burden is on you.As I read this court's decision, what the courtis simply saying is, I don't ever remember a death penaltycase where there was not a social history done. And so itwas simply unthinkable not to have a social history.Then when you go across the page, so, therefore,based upon the evidence that I have seen, I'm concludingit was error for them not to investigate it because Idon't have any information before me to believe that theydid not have this information available to them.You see the context? And I understand whatyou're saying, but the context of this case is that I have no reason to believe that they did have all of thisinformation. That's not -- that's not enough to satisfyyour burden. That court would have had to find I believethat they did not have this information, not I just haveno reason to believe that they had it.MR. VERRILLI: But --QUESTION: The court should have had to findthey did not have this information. It doesn't find that. It just says I have no reason to believe that they had it.MR. VERRILLI: Justice Scalia, I disagree. I do th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC not think that is a reasonable reading of what the trialjudge held. What the trial --QUESTION: You -- you tell me what it means. Itsays --MR. VERRILLI: The trial --QUESTION: -- I have no reason to believe thatthey did have all of this information.MR. VERRILLI: The trial judge said that he wasconcluding that it was error not to investigate. If theyknew the information, it wouldn't have been error not toinvestigate and --QUESTION: No. Earlier the -- the trial judgesays, I just don't think -- I -- I don't know anycapital --MR. VERRILLI: With all due respect, Justice Scalia --QUESTION: -- I don't know any capital case inwhich a social history wasn't done.MR. VERRILLI: With all due respect --QUESTION: I think he -- I think he reversedsimply because you're always supposed to do a socialhistory.MR. VERRILLI: With all due respect, Your Honor,the very sentence that you pointed to said, based on theevidence that I have seen, I'm concluding it was error for th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC them not to investigate it. If they knew the information,he never would have reached that conclusion.QUESTION: No. He reached the conclusionbecause --MR. VERRILLI: And that's completely supportedby the proffer.QUESTION: He reached the conclusion becausehe --QUESTION: No two voices at the same time. Justice Scalia is asking you a question.MR. VERRILLI: Excuse me.QUESTION: He reached the conclusion because hesaid, I have no reason to believe that they had theinformation. He never made the finding that they didn'thave it.MR. VERRILLI: I think that's implicit, JusticeScalia, in his conclusion that it was error not toinvestigate, and I think it's completely confirmed by theproffer which didn't include any of this information andfor which there would have been absolutely no explanationfor its exclusion. Absolutely none whatsoever. So Ithink with respect to the -- to the factual finding thatthe Maryland Court of Appeals made, that the socialservices records documented abuse and provided the sourceof his knowledge, that's clearly erroneous. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC QUESTION: Mr. Verrilli, you said absolutely noreason why it wouldn't come in if they had it. Whycouldn't counsel for the defense think if we introducethis, it's going to be subject to cross examination? Andif we look at that social history, we find out that thewhole thing is -- the defendant himself was the source ofthe information about the horrible sexual abuse he hadbeen exposed to as a child. The jury might find that aperson who had been so abused would be full of hate andtherefore very likely would have had the mental state tocarry out this brutal murder that -- in other words, thatthis kind of information could be a two-edged sword. Thejury could infer from it he's not fully responsible forhis acts or, on the other hand, that this person wasviolent, full of hate, and indeed committed this brutal murder.MR. VERRILLI: Well, I think, Your Honor, I'mgoing to answer Your Honor's question directly, but I -- Ineed a minute to do it.QUESTION: Yes.MR. VERRILLI: The question under Strickland, itseems to us, is that once you've concluded that there wasa failure to investigate adequately, the question iswhether there is a reasonable probability that the outcomewould have been different as a result of that failure. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC And in this case, it seems to me, that means that whatwe -- and Strickland also stresses that that is anobjective test. That is not based on the idiosyncraciesof the individual decision makers. It's an objectiveanalysis.And so the question here is whether had thisinformation been investigated, if it was in the hands ofcompetent counsel, is there a reasonable probability thatcompetent counsel would have used it and introduced it,and then is there a reasonable probability that it wouldhave affected the sentencing jury's outcome.And the second half of that analysis, it seemsto us, is answered a fortiori by Williams against Taylor.The first half of that analysis seems to usclearly to support relief here because, as I take Your Honor's question, it's a question of, well, there might bea justification for not submitting this evidence to thejury. Yes, there might. We think in a case like thisone, it would be an unreasonable choice not to do sobecause this evidence has so little of what this Court hasdescribed in other cases like Burger and Darden as a sharpdouble edge, and it is so powerfully mitigating that wedon't think it would have that effect.But we -- we respectfully suggest that's not therelevant question. Once you've established deficient th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC performance with respect to investigation, then we shiftto the prejudice inquiry, and it's an objective analysis. And so long as there is a reasonable probability thatcompetent counsel would have used this information incombination with the case that they made, then -- andthere's a reasonable probability that the outcome wouldhave been affected, which I think Williams v. Taylorestablishes for us, then we have shown what we need toshow to be entitled to relief.QUESTION: Do you --QUESTION: What are the --QUESTION: What do you think the test is thatWilliams against Taylor lays down as to determining a -- aprobability of a different outcome?MR. VERRILLI: Well, I think, if I may just draw from Justice O'Connor's concurring opinion with respect tothat. If there's an obvious failure on the part of theState court to consider the totality of the record, that'san unreasonable application with respect to prejudice. And with -- in Williams, of course, as Your Honor'sdissenting opinion pointed out, there was a much moresevere case of aggravating information than here. Williams had a terrible, long record of violence. Wigginshas none. And the mitigating evidence here is evenstronger than the mitigating evidence that existed in the th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC Williams case.And so we think it follows directly fromWilliams that -- that if you look at whether there's areasonable probability that the outcome would have beendifferent here on the basis of submitting this evidence,that we think that's a very clear and easy case under thestandards that Williams sets.QUESTION: Are -- are you making any argumentthat the ruling on the bifurcation motion might also havebeen different if there had been a proffer of this? Ordid the judge rule on the bifurcation motion withoutknowing what the mitigation evidence might be?MR. VERRILLI: The -- factually, JusticeKennedy, it's the latter. The -- he ruled on thebifurcation motion at the outset of the -- of the trial. QUESTION: Is -- is that a common motion inMaryland capital cases, to try to bifurcate the sentencingproceeding?MR. VERRILLI: At the time it was, and thereason it was, Mr. Chief Justice, is because sometimeshortly before this case was tried in Baltimore County,another Baltimore County judge had allowed such a motion.And we think that fact reinforces the utterlyunreasonable character of the failure to investigate here. These lawyers had a -- had -- had to think there was a th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC reasonable prospect they were going to be able to put on amitigation case, but we know that all they had to put onthat mitigation case was the psychologist's testing. Andafter all, that -- all that psychologist did was test.QUESTION: But they would -- they would befighting over the principalship too, would they not?MR. VERRILLI: Yes, but that -- the point ofbifurcation was to do principalship first, and if theyprevailed on principalship, they wouldn't go to the secondphase. And only if they didn't prevail on principalshipwould they go to the second phase where they wouldn't haveany of the tactical cross currents they were worried aboutbecause principalship was already established and theycould go whole hog and make the fullest mitigation casepossible.And the fact that they were -- that they wereendeavoring to follow that strategy until the first day ofthe sentencing hearing, October th, , shows thatthey didn't -- that all they had as of October , ,was the psychologist's report -- shows that they did notinvestigate at the level that Strickland requires.QUESTION: Mr. --QUESTION: What about the psychological reports,Mr. Verrilli? Those were available to defense counsel?MR. VERRILLI: Yes, Justice O'Connor. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC QUESTION: And indeed, obtained by defensecounsel.MR. VERRILLI: Yes, Justice O'Connor.QUESTION: And what did they reveal in this areaof mitigation?MR. VERRILLI: They were -- the -- the -- thereare two things that are important about the psychologist'sreport: one, what it does contain; the other, what itdoesn't contain.The psychologist was commissioned in this caseto do testing of Mr. Wiggins, intelligence testing andthen psychological profiling, MMPI-type testing. Theevidence is undisputed about that. That's what thepsychologist did.The thing that's significant about what was discovered was the fact that Mr. Wiggins was of borderlineintelligence, which seems to us quite relevant andentirely consistent -- it would have been entirelyconsistent, even absent bifurcation, to use that evidence,in addition to an effort to disprove principalship,because the borderline intelligence would easily andstrongly have supported the conclusion that Mr. Wigginswas an accomplice and not a principal.But the thing it doesn't show is any of thehistory of abuse, and that's because the psychologist th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC wasn't commissioned to do that. They didn't do what theyneeded to do here, which was to do the social history. The evidence is clear that it was routine practice inthese public defenders' office to do the social history. They admitted that. The evidence is clear -- and the --and the public defenders admitted it -- that funds wereavailable for that purpose. They just didn't do it. Theyjust dropped the ball on this. They didn't do what allthe lawyers in their office did routinely, and they didn'tdo what the State post-conviction trial judge said he hadnever seen not done, which is prepare this social historyand --QUESTION: Mr. Verrilli, is -- is there anyevidence, one way or the other, as to whether defensecounsel simply sat down with the defendant and said, tell us about your background and what has happened to you inyour life? Is there any evidence one way or the otherabout that?MR. VERRILLI: There is not. There is not, butit wouldn't be a surprise, Justice Souter, that even if aninterview like that occurred, that the defendant would nothave revealed it, that -- it's very difficult to get thiskind of history of horrible personal abuse out of adefendant. It very often requires a professional to doit. That is why -- that's the very reason why the social th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC workers are brought in to do the kinds of social historiesas a -- as a routine matter. And it wasn't done here.If there are no further questions, I'd like toreserve my remaining time.QUESTION: Very well, Mr. Verrilli.Mr. Bair.ORAL ARGUMENT OF GARY E. BAIRON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTSMR. BAIR: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it pleasethe Court:I'd like to first start with a correction in thefactual record in this case. Counsel for petitionerhas -- has referred the Court to JA and . Andindeed, that was a comment made by the post-convictioncourt during the State post-conviction proceedings. However, that was an oral comment from the bench in Aprilof .The post-conviction court's written opinion didnot issue until . And in the post-conviction writtenopinion -- it was a -page written opinion. And thatwritten opinion basically countermanded and superseded anddisavowed the statements that are on page JA and . If you look to page a of the appendix to the petitionfor writ of certiorari, that is where you have theexcerpts from -- th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC QUESTION: What page? What --MR. BAIR: a, Your Honor. That is whereyou have the excerpt from the State habeas, Statepost-conviction court's written opinion. And if you lookat footnote on that page --QUESTION: These are footnotes in the Statecourt's opinion or footnotes in the -- in the appendix?MR. BAIR: This is in -- these are footnotes inthe State post-conviction court's opinion. It was, as Isaid, a very lengthy opinion and had several hundredfootnotes as well as pages.By the time the post-conviction court renderedits final decision, its written decision, it had thetranscripts from the post-conviction proceeding. And --and as you may recall, the post-conviction proceeding lasted months. Testimony was taken over days in a-month post-conviction hearing.That footnote is the transcript that JusticeScalia was referring to which is on JA and . Sothis is the testimony that the post-conviction court usedto make its fact finding. And in its fact finding it saidSchlaich had more information than appeared in the PSIreport.I would go back to what was said earlier. Therewere several sources of the information for trial counsel. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC In fact, I would -- I would tally them up to be sixdifferent sources. You had, obviously, the DSS reports,the lodged material that Justice Breyer referred to, pages of social background, educational background,medical background, because petitioner was in foster carefrom when he was about years old to when he --QUESTION: Let me just get one thing straight onthe -- the long footnote that you quote. They end upsaying, you knew all this and you did not get a socialhistory. Do you think it was -- a competent counsel wouldhave gotten a social history or not knowing what he saidhe knew?MR. BAIR: I think he got a -- he -- he got asocial history in a different way, Your Honor. He didn'thire a forensic social worker. Instead, he obtained lengthy DSS reports, hired a psychologist, hired acriminologist, talked to family members, talked to theclient. He didn't do it in the way that -- that counselnow says it should have been done.QUESTION: Is -- is the way that counsel says itshould have been done the way that lawyers typically do itin -- in Maryland?MR. BAIR: I think they do it in different ways,Your Honor. I think -- I think sometimes they useforensic social workers. Sometimes they use th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC psychologists.QUESTION: But they're wrong to tell us thatthey normally use social workers. Is that right?MR. BAIR: I think --QUESTION: That was -- his representation wasthat this case is unique because every other member of thedefense bar routinely gets the social history. Are you --is that right or wrong?MR. BAIR: I think it's wrong. I think it'swrong, Your Honor. I think that lawyers in Maryland usepsychiatrists, they use psychologists, they use socialworkers, they use combinations thereof.QUESTION: But he didn't use any of these.MR. BAIR: Pardon me?QUESTION: He didn't use any of those. MR. BAIR: He -- he used a psychologist and heused a criminologist. And he obtained very lengthy DSSrecords.QUESTION: If -- the DSS records that heobtained -- are they all in the lodging or there are someother ones?MR. BAIR: Yes. They're all -- they're all inthe lodging.QUESTION: Okay. Now, if -- if -- it's months -- it took months. They went into this in th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC great care. You've given us the lodging. I've lookedthrough the lodging, my law clerk more thoroughly. Ican't find a word about the sexual abuse. I can't find aword about the frightful things that he -- one I did findwhere it said for -- when he was taken from his motherat age , it's true that the mother hadn't fed him for days. All right. That's there, but none of this otherstuff is there.And -- and, indeed, if he looked at any of it --anywhere for this other stuff, where would he have looked? Why wasn't that in the record which took months, if infact he looked? Why was there no more reference to itthan an ambiguous statement where he seems to refer to thelodging?MR. BAIR: Your Honor, a couple of -- a couple of points to be made.First of all, I -- I agree, and I think we statein our brief, there is no specific reference to sexualabuse in those -- in -- in the lodging.QUESTION: And that's actually -- to me that'sthe most serious thing there is, I mean, in terms ofshaping an individual who could later turn out the waythat some have turned out. And -- and there is -- it washorrible in this case, and -- and there's absolutely noreference whatsoever that I can find that suggests that th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC this lawyer even knew about it.MR. BAIR: Well, there is, Your Honor. That --that goes back to JA and .QUESTION: He said he knew about it.MR. BAIR: But the lawyer explicitly testifiedthat he knew of it.QUESTION: And what was -- that's why I want toknow since -- since that statement, the two pages out of months, when I read them -- people can characterize themdifferently, but it seemed to me ambiguous, and thewritten reports could have easily referred to what I callthe lodging. But if they didn't refer to the lodging,what did they refer to?MR. BAIR: The written reports and -- and Ithink the reports of others could be either written reports or oral reports. I think --QUESTION: What he said was -- what did he say? He said, in other people's reports. Yes, they could havebeen. So I would like to know. There's been months oftrial, as you said. There have been endless proceedings. In your opinion, what did they refer to if, in fact, theydid not refer to the lodging? Because if they did referto the lodging, the lawyer in those two pages out of the months simply made a mistake, repeating what he knewlater and thinking that he had learned it earlier from the th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC lodging.MR. BAIR: Your Honor, again, two -- two pointsto be made. One is if there is any ambiguity or any lackof a record here, I think under Strickland that inures tothe detriment of petitioner. He had the burden at thishearing to rebut the -- the strong presumption ofcompetence, the strong presumption of reasonable conduct.But let me go back to what the reports were. You had reports from the client. And I think, although,as -- as was asked earlier by Justice Souter, there'snothing in the record to say whether he spoke to hisclient. I think we can infer that he spoke to his client. He represented him for close to a year. Counsel forpetitioner at post-conviction never pursued those lines ofquestioning. So I think we can assume that this lawyer talked to his client.QUESTION: The -- the post-conviction proceedingextended over a period of months. How many trial dayswere there?MR. BAIR: There were days, Your Honor, wheretestimony was taken in those months --QUESTION: So it had recessed and thenresumed --MR. BAIR: Yes.QUESTION: -- several times. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC MR. BAIR: Yes, several times. It was --QUESTION: Mr. Bair, you -- you seem to acceptthat -- that all that he knew was as it was reported inother people's reports. But I just don't read the textthat way. He said, at least I knew that as it wasreported in other people's reports. And the that in thattranscript is that he was borderline mentally retarded.MR. BAIR: I agree.QUESTION: That is the only thing that he saidhe got from other people's reports.MR. BAIR: I agree. I think --QUESTION: We don't know where he got all of theother information that he said he had.MR. BAIR: No, but I think logically, going backto the reports of sexual abuse, there's only one person that could have come from because even the Selvog report,which is what post-conviction counsel prepared -- Selvogtestified at the post-conviction hearing that his solesource for the information about Wiggins' sexual abuse wasfrom Wiggins himself.Now, Wiggins obviously spoke to his attorney. He spoke to the psychologist who interviewed him. Hespoke to the criminologist that trial counsel hired. Clearly, I think an inference can be drawn that Wigginsreported that sexual abuse either directly to his attorney th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC or to the criminologist or to the psychologist.QUESTION: And in your view on page a of thetranscript, all of those matters are comprehended in thisquestion and this answer toward maybe -- lines from thetop. You also knew that there were reports of sexualabuse at one of his foster homes? Yes.MR. BAIR: Yes.QUESTION: So the term -- the word reports theremeans that he relied on things other than that are in thelodging.MR. BAIR: Yes, I think so, Your Honor.QUESTION: To your knowledge -- and this isquite important to me. I'm just trying to find out whatthe -- if they were not referring to the lodging whichcontains the reports, if they were not referring to that document, they must have been referring to or they werereferring to Wiggins' own statements.MR. BAIR: Either Wiggins' own statements or thereports of the other experts in the case.QUESTION: Other experts in the case.MR. BAIR: Right. There was --QUESTION: He would have gotten them from?MR. BAIR: From Wiggins.QUESTION: After the trial was over.MR. BAIR: No, no, Your Honor. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC QUESTION: Before, before.MR. BAIR: This was all going on --QUESTION: That's the criminologist and the --MR. BAIR: Yes, yes. And those reports wereprepared before trial or between trial and sentencing.There was a -and-a-half month postponement between thetime of this trial and the time of the sentencing.QUESTION: All right. So the words, otherpeople's reports, could have meant Wiggins told me or anexpert whom I hired who talked to Wiggins told me.MR. BAIR: Yes.QUESTION: Yes, okay.MR. BAIR: Or I guess the only -- the onlyother --QUESTION: That -- that he was mentally retarded. It only goes to whether he was mentallyretarded.MR. BAIR: Yes.QUESTION: I'm puzzled about another thing.MR. BAIR: The only other --QUESTION: Do those reports refer to sexualMR. BAIR: Pardon me, Your Honor?QUESTION: Do those reports refer to sexualabuse?abuse? th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC MR. BAIR: The only report that refers to sexualabuse -- now, the only written report that refers tosexual abuse is the Selvog report.QUESTION: The what?MR. BAIR: The -- the Selvog report was the onedone by the social worker during post-conviction by -- bypost-conviction counsel.The psychologist's report was an oral report. So we don't really know exactly what he knew becausethere -- that was never reduced to writing.QUESTION: Well, I'm still puzzled. Were thereany written reports available to the lawyer that referredto sexual abuse that we know about?MR. BAIR: No.QUESTION: So then when he said you know that there were reports of sexual abuse at one of his fosterhomes, he was wrong.MR. BAIR: No. I think he -- he was referringto -- he could have been referring to reports of Wigginshimself.QUESTION: Oh, oh. I see what you're saying --QUESTION: Oral reports.MR. BAIR: Oral reports.QUESTION: That -- that word reports does notmean written reports. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC MR. BAIR: I don't think it has to refer towritten reports, Your Honor.The only -- just to follow up with JusticeBreyer, the only other report was the pre-sentenceinvestigation. That was the other written report that wasavailable to counsel.QUESTION: But that didn't have --MR. BAIR: No, no, no.QUESTION: I mean, what's worrying me obviouslyis we're -- we're turning an awful lot here on this word,other reports, which came in a fairly long hearing andwhich would normally be taken as referring to writtenreports, though it doesn't say that. And I'm -- thatmakes me concerned. I'm not sure where to go with it.MR. BAIR: Well, I think two points, Your Honor. One, counsel did testify and it was undisputed -- it wasnever in any way negated through cross examination or anyother vehicle -- that he knew of sexual abuse. In fact,he specifically answered the question, the more specificsexual abuse question, I knew about the Job Corpsoverture. So those answers are unequivocal and they standin the record unchallenged.QUESTION: Yes, but that's troubling because theJob Corps overture is -- is quite mild compared to therepeated days, months-on-end physical abuse suffered at th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC the hands of the stepfather.MR. BAIR: I agree.QUESTION: And it seems to me that this -- well,I'll ask you. Does this permit us to make the inferencethat if he had known this, he would have brought it out?MR. BAIR: I think --QUESTION: Because it's just very difficult tosee why he would not have.MR. BAIR: Well, I think he made a -- areasonable tactical decision.QUESTION: That goes to the tactical point.MR. BAIR: I think he made a reasonable tacticaldecision. He had a powerful case. Under Maryland law,the jury had to find unanimously and beyond a reasonabledoubt that Wiggins was the principal, that is, the actual killer in this case.They also had to find unanimously and beyond areasonable doubt that the murder and the robbery occurredat the same time, and there was evidence in this case. This was a very unusual situation in that it wasn't evenclear whether the robbery occurred simultaneously with themurder. There was a -- there was a -- a huge dispute attrial and at sentencing over when Ms. Lacs was killedbecause her body was discovered on a Saturday. Wigginswas in possession of her car -- th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC QUESTION: Mr. Bair, may I ask? Did counselduring the -- the sentencing hearing come up with a theoryas to what happened other than that his client was thekiller?MR. BAIR: Yes, absolutely. He challengedand -- and very strenuously both during opening and -- andclosing -- pointed out the evidence in the case thatshowed there were five fingerprints in Ms. Lacs' apartmentthat were not tied to anyone. There was a hat, some sortof a baseball hat, that was in the apartment.QUESTION: No, I understand -- but did he -- didhe suggest who they might have belonged to? Did he comeup with a theory as to who --MR. BAIR: No. I don't -- I don't think therewas any particular person who was another suspect. QUESTION: He didn't suggest that the man wholived downstairs might have been involved.MR. BAIR: No. And that -- that was neverchallenged as part of any ineffective assistance ofcounsel in these proceedings, Your Honor.QUESTION: Mr. Bair, what -- what do you respondto opposing counsel's argument that it doesn't matterbecause you didn't know until the eve of trial that youwouldn't have had a bifurcated proceeding, so you shouldhave been doing this research in contemplation of a th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC bifurcated proceeding?MR. BAIR: Well, Your Honor, first of all, ofcourse, our position is they were doing it. They had,as -- as I said, lots of information. They were doing it. They were -- they were keeping that option open.But another answer, Your Honor, is the evidencewould not have been put on. The more evidence that --that actually came out in -- in, you know, theproceedings, the details that we've now learned of throughthe Selvog report, they are so double-edged. They are sopotentially harmful particularly in the context of thiscase. Between the Selvog report and the lodged materials,the DSS records, the -- the jury would have heard not justthat Kevin Wiggins was -- had been in foster care and hada clean record, which is all they did hear. In addition,if those records had come in, they would have heard thathe hated his biological mother, that he was in fights withother foster children, that he had once stolen somegasoline and tried to set fire to -- to a building, thathe had a disturbed personality --QUESTION: That all goes to explain why theywouldn't have put it in, but why didn't they put any ofthis in the proffer at the -- to the judge at the --MR. BAIR: There -- there was no need to, YourHonor. There's no need under Maryland law to give a th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC detailed proffer. They -- they did not want to tip offthe other side as to any potential things that might benegative to their client.And again, to the degree that we don't knowabout the details, it -- it inures to the detriment ofWiggins. It was his burden to bring out all of thisevidence and he didn't do it.QUESTION: Does -- does the strength of themitigating evidence have anything to do with whether abifurcated proceeding is allowed?MR. BAIR: No.QUESTION: Would they have been more likely toget the bifurcated proceeding if they had come up with alot of information about his childhood and so forth?MR. BAIR: I don't believe so, Your Honor. Ofcourse --QUESTION: What does it turn on then?MR. BAIR: I think it was -- it was the trialcourt's discretion. I think it was just a -- this wasback in . There wasn't a lot of definitive law on itat the time. Since then, the Maryland Court of Appealshas said absolutely not.QUESTION: Was there a transcript of thathearing? He just said, I want a bifurcated hearing andsat down, or did he say, I want a bifurcated hearing th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC because there's going to be very substantial mitigatingevidence and I want the jury to consider that separately? What did he -- do we have a transcript of what he saidhere?MR. BAIR: I think we do have a transcript, YourHonor, and my recollection is that there was a shortdiscussion of it, not -- not a detailed discussion of it.QUESTION: No, but if he had been in a positionto make a strong proffer, why wouldn't he have made it? His case for a bifurcated hearing would have been strongerif he had had a strong proffer. Wouldn't it have been?MR. BAIR: It would have been stronger, YourHonor, but I think in all likelihood if you look -- if youlook at the Maryland sentencing law, it contemplates it,as I said, the court of appeals in Maryland has since held definitively. In fact, in the direct appeal in this case,in the Wiggins case itself on direct appeal, they haveheld that the Maryland sentencing procedure in capitalcases requires that the jury go through certain steps, andthose steps all have to be done at a unitary hearing. Obviously, there's a bifurcated guilt/innocence andsentencing.QUESTION: Well --QUESTION: Well, obviously, the -- the defensecounsel didn't know until the motion was made and ruled th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC upon for a bifurcated hearing whether the judge wouldgrant it, and there's no reason presumably that defensecounsel should not have investigated the mitigatingcircumstances pending that ruling.MR. BAIR: I agree.QUESTION: And yet, we don't have a clearunderstanding of what he knew. And in fact, did notdefense counsel tell the jury for sentencing that theywould be hearing evidence about the defendant'sbackground --MR. BAIR: They -- they did --QUESTION: -- at sentencing? And then nothingwas put on.MR. BAIR: No, not -- not really, Your Honor.QUESTION: I mean, what -- what is the jury to make of that? It's so odd.MR. BAIR: I don't -- I don't think so, JusticeO'Connor. I think -- I think what counsel did is if youlook at the essence of the -- the approach at sentencing,clearly it was we're contesting principalship. There wasone comment about you're going to hear what a tough lifehe had.Now, that was done I think for a couple reasons. One is the counsel knew that petitioner could allocute andprobably would allocute personally to -- to the -- the th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC jury.They also knew that there was going to be acriminologist who was going to testify because the juryknew there was only two choices for this man, either lifeor death. That was -- and life without parole. But theyknew it was either life or life without parole or death. And they were also putting on evidence by a criminologistthat would show that Wiggins would adjust well to a lifesentence. So I think they -- they also knew that -- thatthe pre-sentence report --QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. Bair.MR. BAIR: Thank you, Your Honor.QUESTION: Mr. Himmelfarb, we'll hear from you.ORAL ARGUMENT OF DAN HIMMELFARBON BEHALF OF THE UNITED STATES, AS AMICUS CURIAE, SUPPORTING THE RESPONDENTSMR. HIMMELFARB: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court:The position of the United States is that theSixth Amendment imposed no obligation to present evidenceof petitioner's background at sentencing. It imposed noobligation to conduct a more extensive investigation ofhis background before sentencing. Those conclusionsfollow from a straightforward application of Stricklandversus Washington which judges attorney performance by a th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC single standard, whether it was reasonable under all thecircumstances of the case.The decision to choose a principalship defenseand to reject a mitigation defense falls comfortablywithin the wide range --QUESTION: What's the bifurcated -- I've neverheard of a bifurcated sentencing hearing. How does thatwork?MR. HIMMELFARB: My understanding, JusticeBreyer, is that the basis for the motion was that theprincipalship defense could be undermined by presentingthe mitigating evidence, so they wanted to do itseparately.QUESTION: Right. So what do you do? Youpresent the principalship defense and then the jury votes death or life, and then if they vote death, they go on andpresent the next one, and if the next jury or the samejury, having heard the other one, votes life, then it'slife? I mean, I don't see how it works.MR. HIMMELFARB: My understanding is that underthe theory advanced by petitioner's counsel in support ofthe bifurcation motion, principalship alone would bedetermined at the first phase of the sentencing. If thejury found principalship, there would be a second phase atwhich counsel could -- th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC QUESTION: Okay. Under those circumstances,they're saying that, obviously, in that motion he wouldhave given everything he knew about the background sincehe thought it might work that way, and if he didn't,that's evidence, in fact, amazingly convincing evidence,that he didn't know. He didn't know about the sexualhistory.And the main argument they're making has nothingto do with the strategic choice. It has to do with hisfailure to investigate.So what's your -- what's your response?MR. HIMMELFARB: If you look at the actualproffer that was made in support of the bifurcationmotion, which is at pages and of the joint appendix,what counsel said was, I can proffer to the court that in a non-bifurcated proceeding, the defense is in a positionof coming forward with evidence regarding psychologicalhistory on Mr. Wiggins.QUESTION: This is -- page of the appendixto the petition?MR. HIMMELFARB: No, Mr. Chief Justice. It'sthe joint appendix.QUESTION: Oh, the joint appendix?MR. HIMMELFARB: Page at the bottom.I'm in a position to come forward with evidence th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC regarding psychological history on Mr. Wiggins, includingaspects of his life history, including a diagnosis of apersonality disorder, including diagnosis of someretardation. So --QUESTION: So he says nothing whatsoever aboutthe most frightful sexual abuse, about having the motherwho did all the things that this one particularly did, notfeeding them, burning their hands on the stove, et cetera. I won't list it. But I just don't see anything in thething you've just read that suggests that he knew a singlething about that.MR. HIMMELFARB: Well, it's true it was ageneral proffer rather than a highly particularizedproffer.QUESTION: Yes. And so their point is, obviously, if he had known about it, he would have saidsomething, and the fact that he didn't say something, whencoupled with the ambiguities on the pages, you know, or or - -- you get what we're talking about, thefootnote -- coupled with that shows that the correctreading of that is he didn't know about it.MR. HIMMELFARB: I think there's an importantpoint to keep in mind here. The constitutional rightpetitioner has raised in this case is not the duty toknow, it's the duty to investigate. The claim is that the th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC investigation was constitutionally inadequate.And the other important thing to keep in mind isthat there is significant evidence in the record that asignificant investigation was done, an investigation whichwe think is constitutionally adequate.QUESTION: Mr. Himmelfarb, in that connection,there's something I'd like you to set me straight on.There was a statement at some point that each of thedefense counsel thought the other was going to bear thelaboring awe in working up the mitigation case. Now, itseems to me that each one thought the other was doing itand the other wasn't doing it. That would be ineffectiverepresentation if each one thought the other wasinvestigating and it turned out neither investigated.MR. HIMMELFARB: I agree that would be problematic, but I don't think the record bears thatsuggestion out, again, going to the joint appendix.QUESTION: Well, where -- where do I get thatnotion from that each one thought the other wasprincipally responsible for working up the mitigationcase?MR. HIMMELFARB: Petitioner makes that argumentin his brief, and there are record cites to support it.But we don't think the record cites do, in fact, supportthe notion that each counsel thought the other was th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC responsible for investigating the mitigation case.There were two lawyers, Schlaich and Nethercott. At page of the joint appendix, Schlaich testified thatafter he left the Baltimore County Public Defenders Officeand went to another office, from that point forward hisco-counsel, Ms. Nethercott, did most of the mitigationpreparation with his guidance.Then Ms. Nethercott testified at thepost-conviction hearing as well, and her testimony wasthat she had no responsibility for retaining experts,that that was Schlaich's responsibility.So I think that's a far cry from testimony byeither that only the other one had responsibility forpreparing the mitigation case. Each one was testifyingabout his or her particular responsibilities. QUESTION: Yes, but where -- the page you referto, he says, when asked what he did in -- in mitigation,he said, well, basically what we did in mitigation wasattempt to retry the factual case and try to convince thejury on the principalship issue. That doesn't sound likethe kind of mitigation we're talking about.MR. HIMMELFARB: Well, that's right, JusticeStevens. It remains the case, though, that a substantialamount of investigation was done. That testimony --QUESTION: But this part of the transcript th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC certainly doesn't support that proposition.MR. HIMMELFARB: Well --QUESTION: That's the part you called ourattention --MR. HIMMELFARB: -- in fairness to Mr. Schlaich,I think he was interpreting the question to mean what wasyour defense at sentencing, not so much what was yourmitigation --QUESTION: That's right. So this part does notsupport the -- the proposition that he did any mitigatingresearch himself or with the other person. He's talkingabout the principalship issue.MR. HIMMELFARB: I was just responding toJustice Ginsburg's question about whether it was true thateach one testified that the other was responsible for the investigation. My only point is that I don't think therecord bears out that suggestion in petitioner's brief.QUESTION: But it also doesn't show that therewas substantial investigation, which is what you went onto say, and I don't think it's supported.MR. HIMMELFARB: I do, Justice Kennedy. Theinvestigation that was done in this case by trial counselwas not materially different from the investigation thatwas done by post-conviction counsel. It was trialcounsel, after all, who obtained the social services th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC records that documented a history of neglect. Trialcounsel directed public defender investigators to go outand interview petitioner's family members, which they did. Trial counsel hired a psychologist to conduct clinicalinterviews of petitioner which were done.Really the only difference between what trialcounsel did and what post-conviction counsel did was thatpost-conviction counsel hired a social worker, a so-calledmitigation specialist, who supervised the investigationand pulled the information together in a report.But we're talking here about whether there is aconstitutional deficiency in the investigation, and anydifference in the two investigations, which is really thefact that the social worker was there in the one but notthe other, we think can't have constitutional significance.I do want to say a little bit about the duty topresent claim because most of the focus in the argumenthas been on the question of the duty to investigate.We think that the principal defense wasreasonable both because a finding of no principalshipwould have been an absolute bar to imposition of the deathpenalty and because the principalship case that the Stateput on here was so weak.We also think it was reasonable not to present a th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC mitigation defense either in addition to the principalshipdefense or instead of it. It was reasonable not topresent it in addition to the principal defense because ithad a -- a very serious possibility of undermining it. Itwas reasonable not to present it instead of theprincipalship defense because mitigating evidence is justthat. It's evidence that would be weighed againstaggravating circumstances. It might or might not lead toa sentence of death.A finding of no principalship is a categoricalbar to imposition of the death penalty. If a single jurorharbored a reasonable doubt about whether petitioner hadcarried out the killing himself, it would be obligated toreturn a verdict of life.QUESTION: But presumably the -- the determination of the facts about the murder was made inthe trial when he was determined guilty or innocent, andthey found him guilty. And so to try to redetermine thatat sentencing and not to offer any evidence in mitigation,do you think we can say that's reasonable?MR. HIMMELFARB: Absolutely. There were twodifferent issues, one issue at the guilt phase, one issueat the sentencing, as far as the -- as far as petitioner'srole is concerned. He was charged with first degreemurder. As the jury was instructed, a conviction of first th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC degree murder does not necessarily encompass a finding ofprincipalship, a finding that petitioner himself hadcarried out the killing. So it was perfectlyunderstandable that petitioner's counsel would think thatcontesting principalship at sentencing would be areasonable strategy.QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. Himmelfarb.Mr. Verrilli, you have minutes remaining.REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF DONALD B. VERRILLI, JR.ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERMR. VERRILLI: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice.I'd like to clarify the -- the facts surroundingthe proffer because it's very important to understand howthis unfolded.Counsel for Wiggins made a motion. That motionwas argued on October th, and denied at that time,the first day of the sentencing hearing. But the profferwas not made at that time. What -- what counsel for myfriend, the United States, described was what Mr. Schlaichhe would proffer if he had to proffer. He made the actualproffer at the end of the sentencing proceeding, and itcan be found at pages, I think, to of the -- to of the joint appendix. And there's a lengthy profferthere of what he would have shown had he been able to puton his mitigation case in the -- in the method he wanted th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC to. So --QUESTION: He does that -- he does that toargue --judge --MR. VERRILLI: He's making a record for --QUESTION: -- after the fact that that theMR. VERRILLI: He's making a record for appeal,Justice Kennedy. Here's the -- here's what we would havesuffered because we wouldn't have been -- we weren't ableto put on all of this mitigating evidence, and here it is.And so the sum total of his mitigation case isright there on the pages. He's described what it is andit contains nothing about the horrible abuse that this boysuffered. Nothing.Now, with respect to the question of whose responsibility it was, I think it is correct to focus onthe -- the colloquy on page of the -- of the jointappendix, but the question asked Mr. Schlaich there, asJustice Stevens' question suggested, was, well, he firstsays, well, it was Ms. Nethercott's job to developmitigation. And then the question put to him is whatguidance did you give her, obviously, about how to developthe mitigation case. And he says, well, what we decidedto do was retry the factual case. That's the -- that'swhat he says he gave as guidance with respect to th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC developing the mitigation case. So it's -- it'scompletely clear that this was neglect. They just droppedthe ball.Now, with respect to what they actually did atthe sentencing proceeding, picking up on JusticeO'Connor's questions, I think this is critical as well.Remember, Strickland says no hindsight, butthat's an argument that works against the government inthis case because what these lawyers actually did was, inopening statement, invite the jury specifically toconsider not only the facts of the crime but, quote, whothis person is, said they would hear he had a difficultlife. And then they didn't deliver on that promise.But not only that, Dr. Johnson, the -- thecriminologist, got up and testified, well, yes, violent people do tend to adjust well in prison. Well, that's notfocusing on principalship. That, once again, is invitingthe jury beyond principalship into the mitigation inquiryand giving them some reason to -- to mitigate, but ofcourse, omitting all of the extraordinarily powerfulreasons to mitigate that the social history shows.And then third, there was as a matter of law inMaryland a pre-sentence report that had to go to the jury. And there was nothing that Wiggins' lawyers could do tostop that. And that pre-sentence report gave a highly th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC misleading and negative portrayal of Wiggins' background. And the -- what -- effect of what these lawyers did was toleave that unrebutted, further damaging Wiggins'prospects, further ensuring that he was going to get adeath sentence.Now, if I could conclude by just reminding thisCourt that very recently in the Miller-El case, this Courtsaid even in the context of Federal habeas, thedeferential review of Federal habeas, there's a differencebetween deference and abdication. And what my friends onthe other side are asking for here is the latter. Theyare asking for abdication. They are asking this Court touphold a judgment even though the only factual finding theMaryland Court of Appeals made was wrong by clear andconvincing evidence, and even though that proffer demonstrates that Wiggins' lawyers did not do the worknecessary and did not know the powerful mitigation casethat could have been made to save this man's life.Thank you.CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: Thank you,Mr. Verrilli.The case is submitted.(Whereupon, at : p.m., the case in theabove-entitled matter was submitted.) th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC 