 IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XUNITED STATES, ET AL., Petitioners ::v. : No. -AMERICAN LIBRARY ASSOCIATION, :INC., ET AL. :- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XWashington, D.C.Wednesday, March , The above-entitled matter came on for oralargument before the Supreme Court of the United States at: a.m.APPEARANCES:THEODORE B. OLSON, ESQ., Solicitor General, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on behalf of thePetitioners.PAUL M. SMITH, ESQ., Washington, D.C., on behalf of theRespondents. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC C O N T E N T SORAL ARGUMENT OF THEODORE B. OLSON, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioners PAUL M. SMITH, ESQ.On behalf of the Respondents REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OFTHEODORE B. OLSON, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioners PAGE th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC P R O C E E D I N G S(: a.m.)CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: We'll hear argumentfirst this morning in No. -, the United States v. theAmerican Library Association. General Olson.ORAL ARGUMENT OF THEODORE B. OLSONON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERSMR. OLSON: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it pleasethe Court:When libraries block Internet pornography fromtheir computer terminals, they are simply declining to putonto their computer screens the same content they havetraditionally excluded from their bookshelves. Byoffering Internet access without pornography, freedom of speech is expanded, not abridged. Under the Children'sInternet Protection Act, or CIPA, no Internet speech isprohibited, inhibited, threatened, or chilled. Librariesare simply exercising their discretion as to the contentthat their libraries will contain, the historic discretionto exercise that -- that authority, and to how theirlibrary resources will be used.QUESTION: Mr. Olson, you have a number ofimportant legal concepts to address. I have three factualquestions. I've been through the extensive opinion of the th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC district court, and -- and they may be important for me. Three different things.When the library patron requests that the filterbe disabled, does he have to explain why he wants itdisabled?asked --MR. OLSON: No. Shall I wait until you'veQUESTION: Go ahead. MR. OLSON: It's my understanding that the --the library patron would not have to explain any reasonwhy he was asking a site to be unblocked or the filteringto be disabled.QUESTION: That's the next question. Do you asksite by site or can I -- can the library patron say,unblock the whole thing?MR. OLSON: The library patron, if the patron isan adult, can ask the -- the entire filtering to bedisabled, and the library may disable -- I mean, eliminatethe filtering with respect to specific sites either ontheir own or at the request of a patron. QUESTION: All right. And third, the district court said in some casesit takes hours to a week. Is that the usual thing ordoes -- in many cases can the librarian just push abutton? th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC MR. OLSON: I think that it is -- it is -- therecord is not clear on that, and I -- but my -- myexperience and my judgment in connection with ourpreparation is that it need not be a very difficult thing. It's something that libraries can do without a great dealof difficulty. But to the extent that it took any time atall, it would be the same as asking for a book that is noton the shelf or asking for an inter-library loan, the kindof customary things that library patrons do when they askfor a book or a resource in a library.QUESTION: Is -- is there anything in thestatute that would prohibit a library from doing thefollowing? Any adult who wants to watch the thing withoutthe screen, come up and ask, do you want to do it, and you-- we can tell you, don't watch these obscene child pornography, et cetera. Then we disconnect it. Does thestatute prohibit the library from doing that?MR. OLSON: If I understand your questioncorrectly, I -- I know of nothing in the statute thatwould prohibit the library from doing that, provided thatthe -- the person asks and the patron asking is an adult.The First Amendment does not require librariesto sponsor the viewing of pornography. When Governmentgives financial aid to speech on Government premises, itmay make rational choices as to what not to finance. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC Those -- that -- that doctrine is consistent with thisCourt's previous decisions. In connection with thisparticular content, Congress and this Court have foundthat Government has -- the Government has a compellinginterest in preventing the dissemination of obscenity,child pornography, and in the case of minors, materialthat is harmful to children. Such material has beentraditionally excluded from public libraries, andGovernment has a basic, fundamental right in addition notto associate with or finance pornography.QUESTION: Isn't part of the problem that a lotmore is being excluded? I mean, as I understand it, thestatute requires that a -- a filter of some sort be used. Filters are not sold -- the blocking devices are not soldor prepared apparently in terms of the concepts that the statute uses. The companies that do prepare them will noteven disclose what in fact they are blocking so that itseems that an inevitable price of this is blocking morethan -- than the statute requires, and that's even withoutgetting into the question of blocking material for adultsas -- as opposed -- that -- that might be unsuitable forchildren, but certainly aren't for adults. How do you -- how do you get over the problem ofthe -- sort of the -- the imprecision, the crudity, theoverkill of the blocking devices? th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC MR. OLSON: Justice Souter, that is -- that istrue that any system is going to involve some over-blocking and under-blocking because it's impossible toknow what is going to be coming over the Internet orimpossible to make systems that are perfect. But that'sconsistent with what -- the historical decisions thatlibraries have made. QUESTION: But there's one thing that is clearlyinconsistent I think, and that is when the libraries make-- historically have made these decisions, they've knownwhat they weren't buying or weren't stocking on theirshelves, and here they don't --MR. OLSON: Well --QUESTION: -- because they -- the blockingmakers regard that as proprietary information. MR. OLSON: It's -- there's several answers tothat it seems to me. In the first place, libraries haveknown that they have not stocked pornography, and it's notbecause of space, popularity, or expense. They havechosen traditionally not to stock that type of material.Every time a library decides not to subscribe to amagazine, it is over-blocking in a sense. A magazine mayhave three pornographic pictures in it or sexuallyexplicit pictures in --QUESTION: But it -- but it does know what the th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC magazine is, and here it does not know what the websiteis.MR. OLSON: It knows what the magazine has been. It may not know what the magazine is in the future. Furthermore, librarians don't read every book.QUESTION: No, but it -- you know, it knows it'sPlayboy or whatever the magazine is, and here it doesn'tknow what the website is that's being excluded.MR. OLSON: Yes, but it can -- it can test this-- what we're saying here with respect to that is over-blocking or under-blocking is a necessary part of thelibrary function of making appropriateness judgments withrespect to content generally. That's the type ofdistinction --QUESTION: Well, I -- I have a problem with --with that. It -- it seems to me a large part of yourargument is you want us to think of this just in the samecontext of the librarian going through a list of books anddeciding what books to buy. But the Internet isn't likethat. What is it? There's a -- . million new entriesinto the system every day? This is a whole new medium. It's not like a library.MR. OLSON: Yes. And, Justice Kennedy, it seemsto -- it seems to the Government and it seemed -- itseemed to Congress that gross judgments are going to have th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC to be made. These libraries, as the record reflects andthe findings of the district court reveal, traditionallyor -- or customarily block e-mail, chat, gambling, gaming,dating services, and some of them, as reflected -- I thinkit's on page , of the appendix to the jurisdictionalstatement -- make -- make judgments with respect to what'sappropriate, what's offensive. Those types of judgmentsare being made.Yes, this is a new medium and it's --QUESTION: Well, but General Olson, there aresupposed to be , books a year published in the UnitedStates. Do you think librarians know the contents or evenknow of the existence of all of those , books?MR. OLSON: No, that -- Mr. Chief Justice,that's our point. This is a difference in quantity, but it is not a difference generically from what librariestraditionally have done.QUESTION: But when the library makes a bookdecision, doesn't it make a decision that says, we willnot put God's Little Acre on our shelves? It's a yes orno decision with respect to the book. It's quite truethere are lots of books out there that the library not --may not know about, but when it makes a decision not toput it on the shelf, it knows what it's deciding not todo, and here it doesn't. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC MR. OLSON: Well, in a specific situation, alibrary might know that. A library might decide that itwould just stock history books or just stock -- stocknovels of a particular period. There's nothing to suggestthat libraries don't have the right to make thosedecisions and customarily make those decisions.QUESTION: Sure, but somebody along the lineknows what they've decided to buy within the category andwhat they haven't decided to buy. MR. OLSON: Well, that's right, but thetraditional decisions that libraries have made -- and theappellees do not dispute this -- is that libraries havenot chosen to stock the types of material on their shelvesthat they're now being asked to keep out with respect tothe Internet. This is a similar decision with a different medium.QUESTION: No, but that's -- that's true. But Ithink the thing that -- one of the things that's troublingus is they're -- they're -- they are -- they are forced,by virtue of that decision, not to stock a lot of othermaterial, and they don't even know what it is and there'sno way for them to find out.MR. OLSON: But, Justice Souter, they -- theymay on their own -- there's a -- there's -- one of thematerials that's in the record is someone that made a th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC study of several hundred thousand sites and decided whichones were properly blocked or improperly blocked. Thosetypes of studies may be used to unblock sites, to modifythe filtering system. Libraries could get together andcreate their own filtering system rather than the onesthat are --QUESTION: Could the library in -- GeneralOlson, in view of what you answered earlier, you said anypatron could say, I want to unblock everything. Could thelibrary say, well, we want our staff to have access toeverything? Therefore, we are going to unblock everythingfor the computers that we use internally. I thought theanswer to that question was no, but it seems inconsistentwith the answer that you gave. A patron says, I want tosee everything. Fine.MR. OLSON: Well, I -- I believe that the answeris that, A, the librarian can, in response to a requestfrom a patron, unblock the filtering mechanism altogether. And secondly, I think it's not entirely -- it's not -- thestatute doesn't get into it, but it -- but it seemsentirely consistent with what I've just said, and I thinkconsistent with the import of your question is that thelibrary staff can disable the filter in order to makejudgments about whether something has been, quote,properly or improperly blocked. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC QUESTION: Because one of the things that wascriticized about this statute was that every terminal,even the ones in the librarian's own office, closedoffice, has to have this filtering. But your answer is,no, they don't. You -- you make it sound like it's reallythe library's option. If they want to put everything on,they can. MR. OLSON: I -- I was answering your questionwith respect to what the staff may review in making theadministrative decisions with respect to unblocking orother decisions with respect to the implementation of thestatute. The statute speaks in terms of having in placethis technological mechanism by which this material can befiltered out or is designed and calculated to do that. Itdoesn't -- the statute does not require perfection. Itdoesn't require librarians to act in --QUESTION: General Olson, if I understand thesituation correctly, the libraries are wasting a lot ofmoney litigating. They could simply hire somebody to comeinto the library everyday and say, please unblockeverything, and then they could do it.MR. OLSON: With respect to that patron. Imean, the -- the -- if my answer suggested that thelibrary could just switch off the filter on a daily basis,I didn't mean to say anything remotely like that. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC QUESTION: Oh, okay.MR. OLSON: It -- this -- particular patrons maysay, I'm investigating breast cancer. This -- the sites-- some of the sites that I'm looking for I can't find,and they appear to be on block. Can those sites -- orI've heard about these sites -- be unblocked?QUESTION: But do they have to --QUESTION: Or -- or he can say, according toyou, what do you care what I'm investigating? I just wantthe site unblocked. Isn't that right? MR. OLSON: That's -- that's correct. Yes,that's correct. QUESTION: I wonder how -- how effective that --that system is in -- in achieving some of the goals of thestatute which -- which is not just that -- that some people using the -- the Net happen to stumble acrosspornographic stuff but also, passing by, see it, and --and including children. MR. OLSON: That -- that may happen, JusticeScalia. The system is not perfect. It is not going to beperfect. But what it does, it's a reasonable, rationalarticulation by Congress of an attempt to decide --QUESTION: Why couldn't the -- why couldn't thechildren be protected by having two screens? One screenfor the kids; the other for the adults. One is blocked; th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC the other isn't. MR. OLSON: Well, I think that is -- again, is apractical judgment that may work in some libraries. Itmight require a great deal more resources from librarians. It might require establishing different screens andmechanisms. Yes, there are ways in which Congress couldhave done this differently, but this is a rationaljudgment, consistent with --QUESTION: May I go back to Justice Ginsburg'squestion with respect to the library staff on theunblocking? I -- I think her original question was, couldthe library say, we want our staff to have free access onthe computers that they use, not that we want them to beable to look behind the block to see what's being keptout. We just want them to have a free computer. Is -- isthat a violation of the statute? I had thought it was --MR. OLSON: I think that the -- my answer toyour question, if I understand it correctly, is that thecomputers in the library, if the library uses the -- theFederal funds with either respect to the discounts or thesubsidies, direct subsidies, all the computers in thatlibrary must be equipped with the technology protectionmeasure with respect to each of those computers.QUESTION: And that would include the staffcomputers. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC MR. OLSON: Yes. But that does not preclude thestaff from determining, in connection with specificrequests --QUESTION: Yes, but that's not the question. The question is can the library say, this is ridiculousblocking this stuff for our staff. We're not going toblock them. The staff computers are either going to haveno blocks or every morning we will press the button thatunblocks the staff computers. MR. OLSON: Well --QUESTION: That would violate the statute,wouldn't it?MR. OLSON: Well, one could -- you're in anarea, it seems to me, that -- where there might be an as-applied challenge. We're talking about a facial challenge to the constitutionality of the statute.QUESTION: And we want to know the extent of thestatutory prohibition.MR. OLSON: I -- I understand that. I -- andthe -- your -- the import of your question suggests thatin this situation a librarian might exercise thisdiscretion with respect to a filter. I don't think in thefirst place --QUESTION: All I want to know is whether theycan do it without violating the statute. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC MR. OLSON: My answer to your question is thatto the extent that librarians are disabling the filter forthe performance of their administrative function --QUESTION: That's not my question. The librarysimply says, we want our staff to have free computers.MR. OLSON: I don't think so, Justice Souter. QUESTION: That would violate it. MR. OLSON: That's right. But remember, this isin the context of -- of material that's been traditionallyexcluded by libraries, that libraries are free to put ontheir shelves in the form of books anytime they want.It -- the -- the position of the district courtand the position of the appellees is that the libraries,by doing this, violate the First Amendment right of theirpatrons. I don't think that would be an issue in that context, and we're suggesting that the patrons have aright to Internet access anywhere they want outside thefederally subsidized library. And the library has several choices it may makehere. The library might not have Internet. Maybe it'snot appropriate for that particular library. The librarymay have Internet with the filtering and accept Federalmoney with respect to putting in the computers. Or thelibrary --QUESTION: Could the library do this? Could the th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC library say, okay, we're -- we're certainly going tocomply with the statute for the library, but we are goingto -- we are going to establish -- or the city says, wewill establish a separate office? It's called the -- thecomputer viewing office. It has a separate budget fromthe library. It's in a separate building. It has aseparate staff. Administratively it's different. Andwith respect to the computers in -- in that establishment,we're not going to ask for any Federal subsidies and thecomputers are going to be wide open. Any reason theycouldn't do it?MR. OLSON: I -- I think they could. They couldeither have a separate branch where separate Federal fundsare not being obtained, or you're talking about a separateadministrative ability --QUESTION: Yes. MR. OLSON: -- facility. I don't -- I don'tbelieve that the statute would prohibit that set ofoperations.QUESTION: Yes, but it would apply if they had,say, ten computers and nine of them were financed by theFederal subsidy and one of them was independentlyfinanced. That one would be covered by the statute.MR. OLSON: Yes, it would, Justice Stevens,although -- th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC QUESTION: And if you rely on the -- on theSpending Clause to justify this restriction, how do you --how does that justification apply to that tenth computer?MR. OLSON: Because it's a reasonable conditionto the operation of the funds. In the first place,Justice Stevens, in -- the Internet is going to comethrough one opening, and the -- the various differentcomputers will be plugged up to that one opening so thatthe -- the technological answer in part to your questionis it's -- the -- the library would have to decide --QUESTION: Well, you -- you could have it on aseparate phone line, it seems to me. MR. OLSON: Yes, the library could do that sortof thing, but it would --QUESTION: The statute would still apply. MR. OLSON: Yes, it would. Yes, it would.QUESTION: And how do you justify that under theSpending Clause? MR. OLSON: We believe that it's a reasonablecondition that Congress reasonably -- the patrons may notbe able to distinguish where the --QUESTION: Well, wouldn't it be equallyunreasonable if we said it applies to separate facilitiestoo? I don't know why -- I don't understand thedistinction between a branch library that has one computer th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC in it and a big central library with computers, one ofwhich is separately financed.MR. OLSON: Well, again, as we said in ourbriefs, that to the extent that that is an issue, itshould be made -- that point should be made in a -- in anas-applied challenge to the statute, as opposed to achallenge on the face. We don't think it'stechnologically going to be a problem and we do think thatCongress can reasonably have assumed we're using Federalmoney to finance Internet in this library. Patrons aregoing to be exposed. If you're going to take the money,we would like patrons not to be exposed in this manner tothat material, and the Congress could well have decidedthat it -- the taxpayers don't want to be associated witha subsidy of that types of material -- that type of material which has traditionally been excluded from thelibraries in any event.QUESTION: Well, you're saying not only thatthey -- that they don't want to be associated with thesubsidizing of it, but they -- you're saying they don'twant to subsidize an operation which includes some non-subsidized material of this sort. Don't you have to saythat in --MR. OLSON: I -- well, I think that that wouldbe a reasonable choice for Congress to make. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC QUESTION: You say they've made it.MR. OLSON: Well, with respect to all of thecomputers in the library in -- in that narrow context,yes, but I do think that that's the -- we're getting downto the refinements of particular applications and thosetypes of challenges have not yet been made.QUESTION: General Olson, the words of thestatute itself, though -- there is some ambiguity. It's-- with regard to disabling the filter, the words are forbona fide research or other lawful use. And am I right inthinking that your prior answer meant other lawful usemeans anything? So, in effect, for an adult anything butobscenity would be a lawful use.MR. OLSON: I believe that that's -- that's --well, child pornography would also be excluded. Bothobscenity and child pornography --QUESTION: Yes. MR. OLSON: -- there are Federal criminalstatutes with respect to both of those. And -- and again,this is a reasonable effort by the library -- by theCongress to make rational decisions with respect toallowing for some escape for people who are doing researchor for other appropriate purposes. QUESTION: Yes, but -- but how would thatauthorize the unblocking entirely which would let in not th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC just the material that's useful for research, but alsoobscenity, also child pornography? How is that allowing a-- a lawful use? That's allowing an unlawful use, isn'tit?MR. OLSON: Well, I -- I agree with that, but --QUESTION: So if you agree with it, it meansthat -- that --MR. OLSON: If -- if -- excuse me, JusticeScalia. QUESTION: No. I think if you agree with it, it-- it means that you can't unblock a whole channel. Youcan say, I'll let you have this material, but I can'tunblock this channel.MR. OLSON: The -- the --QUESTION: God knows what else there is out there. MR. OLSON: The statute put it in terms of bonafide research or other lawful purposes. That -- there'sbound to be some interpretive -- given the joints there. And again, to the extent that that would trigger a fundingdecision with respect to the enforcement authority orsomething, that's appropriately raised in an as-appliedchallenge. I think it's important to stress the converse ofwhat the appellees are asking for here. They're asking th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC this Court to make a judgment that the First Amendmentprohibits them from exercising the discretion to make thatkind of choice with respect to the Internet that they'vealways made or traditionally made with respect to thebooks on their shelf.The consequence of that, it seems to me, wouldbe strict scrutiny applicable to librarians' judgmentswith respect to not just the Internet, but microfilm,television, other medium that might -- other media thatmight come into the library, and that librarians, insteadof spending money on books, are going to be spending moneyon lawyers defending cases brought by authors saying, you-- you violated my First Amendment right not to havestrict scrutiny, and that instead of librarians makingthese --QUESTION: But, General Olson, Justice Whitewrote a number of opinions in the First Amendment areawhere he started out saying, this is a case aboutbillboards, or this is a case about something else. Iwould think this is a case about the Internet. It's not acase about books.MR. OLSON: Well, it might be if the decisionwas written that way, Justice Stevens, but if -- if theappellees are right, the types of decisions thatlibrarians have been making, appropriateness is -- is the th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC word, quality, appropriateness, and appropriate decisions-- it's -- it's in the record. Those types of decisionsthe librarians are saying -- asking this Court to say aresubject to strict scrutiny and violate the Constitution. This Court would have to make a First Amendmentdistinction between the selection of a book and theselection of another source of information. QUESTION: But isn't there a practicaldistinction that's got to be taken into consideration inyour argument? And that is, not every library can haveevery book. Something has got to be excluded. So westart with the assumption that the librarians have got tomake these judgments. We don't start with that assumptionin the case of the Internet at all.And the question in the case of the Internet is the different one. Can you require them to excludecertain materials that it would be illegal for them tohave as -- as an abstract matter? Sure, I suppose. But the -- the tough question is, can yourequire them necessarily to exclude a great deal moreabout which they make no decision whatsoever and whichwould be perfectly legal for them to have?MR. OLSON: Justice Scalia -- I mean, JusticeSouter --QUESTION: You do me a great honor. But I -- th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC (Laughter.) QUESTION: I am Souter. MR. OLSON: I think I was expecting the nextquestion. (Laughter.) QUESTION: I wasn't even leaning forward. MR. OLSON: Nothing is being --(Laughter.) MR. OLSON: Nothing is being required of thelibrary. The library, if it chooses --QUESTION: If -- if they want them. But you're-- but you're right, sure.MR. OLSON: If it wants to. But the case comes to this Court in the posturethat the district court has held and the appellees are arguing that for the library voluntarily to make thatchoice on their own, irrespective of any FederalGovernment subsidy or anything, would violate the FirstAmendment rights of their patrons.QUESTION: General Olson, what does the recorddisclose is the percentage of lawful material that isexcluded under these software programs as opposed tomaterial that is unlawful for the library to --MR. OLSON: Well, the -- the testimony wasvaried, Justice O'Connor. One of the -- one of the th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC findings of the district court was that tens of thousandsof pages of material may be erroneously blocked. Now, theproblem with that is that different filters might blockdifferent things. Sites may be unblocked. The filter maybe set aside. But even if it's tens of thousands of the-- of the billion pages of material that is on theInternet, we're talking about one two-hundredths of percent, even if it's ,, of materials would beblocked. If it -- if it please the Court, I would like toreserve the remainder of my time.QUESTION: Very well, General Olson.Mr. Smith, we'll hear from you.ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAUL M. SMITHON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTSMR. SMITH: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it pleasethe Court:The Children's Internet Protection Act isunconstitutional for two separate reasons. First, the act does require libraries acceptingFederal funds to engage in conduct that is itself at leastpresumptively unconstitutional. Strict scrutiny doesapply, we say, because the --QUESTION: What -- what cases are you relying onto say that the libraries would be required to engage in th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC -- in conduct that is presumptively unconstitutional? MR. SMITH: This Court's whole series of casesinvolving the public forum doctrine, Your Honor, which Inoticed was -- was not really mentioned by my colleague,Mr. Olson.The Internet, when it comes into the library, is-- all of the information available on the Internet, asdiverse as human thought -- immediately available to thepatron. It is the most pure form of public forum that youcan possibly imagine. QUESTION: Yes, but it begs the question. The-- the point is that the Government is saying, if you wantto get our money, you don't let it all come in. So it isnot -- it is not a public forum once -- once the -- oncethe blocking is applied. MR. SMITH: Well, Your Honor, the whole questionabout whether the library could do it this way depends onhow you view the public forum doctrine. And the -- whatthe Court has said again and again is in deciding whethersomething is or is not a public forum, you look at whetherthe access is selective or general. That -- that's whatthe terminology was in the Court's case --QUESTION: You're not relying, at any rate, oncases dealing with libraries as such. MR. SMITH: No. No, Your Honor. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC QUESTION: You're relying on a more general --MR. SMITH: Applying the Court's generalholdings in -- in a whole series of cases to try to decidewhether this is a public forum, a designated public forum,created --QUESTION: You conclude that -- you concludethat a library is a designated public forum.MR. SMITH: The Internet terminals in thelibrary are a designated public forum, Your Honor. QUESTION: Not the whole library?MR. SMITH: Certainly not. We do not say thatstrict scrutiny applies to the decisions that the librarymakes about which book to buy because when the librarybuys books, it chooses books one by one. It engages inselective access as opposed to general access. With the Internet, on the other hand, the entireworld of -- of content that is on the Internet is thereavailable to the patrons. It has not been selected --QUESTION: Not --MR. SMITH: -- by the library in any way. QUESTION: Not necessarily. I mean, a librarysays -- and some have -- some did this before -- beforethe Federal statute was in effect. A library says,there's this whole wide world of the Internet out there,but we don't want all of it. Some of it is garbage, and th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC therefore we're going to block the obscenity. We're goingto block the child pornography, and we're going to blockthe -- the pornography that's harmful to children. Now,once they've made that decision, hey, presto, it is not apublic forum anymore.MR. SMITH: That -- that -- with respect,Justice Scalia, the way the public forum doctrine works inour judgment -- and we're basing this as -- as close as wecan on this Court's cases -- is that the one thing thatGovernment can't do is allow all content under the sun,not even knowing what content is there, and then exclude,cull out one area of disfavored content. If -- if you saythat that exclusion, that -- that pointing at that oneparticular area of content and excluding it, is the sameas not making it a public forum, then -- then the public forum doctrine no longer has any meaning.QUESTION: Is it also a public forum if it's apublic school library?MR. SMITH: The -- the case of a public schoollibrary is a -- is a more difficult case.QUESTION: I just want a yes or no answer. Onyour theory is it or is it not a public forum if it's in apublic school library?MR. SMITH: I think, Your Honor, I can't giveyou a yes or no answer. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC QUESTION: Well, I need a yes or no. You eitherdo think it is or you don't think it is.MR. SMITH: I would have to know how thepolicies are of the school --QUESTION: No, no. Exactly everything is thesame. I just want to know on your theory of the publicforum doctrine is the th grade library or in anelementary school or a high school -- they have -- they doexactly what the libraries do here. Is it a public forum?MR. SMITH: Then I -- then I do say it's apublic forum, Your Honor. If they allow students --QUESTION: All right. So on your theory of thecase --MR. SMITH: Yes. QUESTION: -- then if it is a public forum, the elementary school, Addison Hill Elementary School, has tolet the worst possible pornography go over the computersthat come into the public school library.MR. SMITH: Certainly not, Your Honor. QUESTION: Because? MR. SMITH: Certainly not. QUESTION: That's what I want my answer to --MR. SMITH: First of all, all that holding thatit's a public forum does is -- is give you the level ofscrutiny that applies to the rule. Then you have to look th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC at the rule, apply the usual standards of narrowtailoring, less restrictive alternatives, compellinginterests --QUESTION: No. We make all those same argumentsthat you've just made and say, look, there would be allthese other alternatives and all -- all the -- I'm -- I'mjust -- I'm not putting a -- I'm putting a difficult --what to me is -- is a difficult problem with yourdoctrine. And I -- I want to see how it works here.MR. SMITH: But I think the Constitutionanalysis may well come out differently with respect toyoung children, Your Honor. QUESTION: Well, but I -- I need to know fairlyspecifically because I don't want if there -- if -- to mefrankly if -- if your theory of it means that every public school has to have a computer attachment which bring thismaterial into the school, I suppose a lot of schoolswouldn't have computers at all in their libraries. And --and that is worrying me. So I'd appreciate --MR. SMITH: Well --QUESTION: -- a fairly definite answer on this. MR. SMITH: Your Honor, I think that -- that,first of all, classrooms are different from libraries evenin the school context because a school classroom --library -- a computer is obviously not used for th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC independent research. If the -- in the library situationin the school, you would have different age groups. You'dhave different considerations. You'd have differentpolicies. There's a lot of different things that could bedistinguished from this case. And I think it -- it's important --QUESTION: So your answer is that in youropinion now you think it probably would be constitutionalas applied to school libraries but not as to publiclibraries? MR. SMITH: It -- it may well be, Your Honor,depending on the age group, depending on thecircumstances, depending on the way the -- the library isused by the students. QUESTION: Mr. Smith, why shouldn't we be conscious of the holding of this Court in Denver Area v.the FCC where the Court concluded it might be premature toapply forum analysis due to changes taking place in thelaw, the technology, and the industrial structure relatedto telecommunications? I mean, this too seems to me anarea for caution, is it not, in importing wholesale publicforum analysis in the library?MR. SMITH: Well, Your Honor --QUESTION: I would think Denver Area would havesome bearing on that. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC MR. SMITH: Denver Area has a substantialbearing and I think it's one of the strongest casessupporting our position. It is true that the Court didnot go -- it -- the -- the plurality opinion in -- in thecase did not go so far as to say we're going to apply apublic forum analysis and strict scrutiny, but -- butJustice Breyer's opinion went much -- very close to thatand said we're going to apply very heightened scrutiny. We're going to look very carefully at this.And this was a law that is in many ways closelyanalogous to what's going on here. It was a law thatsaid, we have a public access station. Anybody from theoutside world can come in and put whatever programmingthey want on that station, but we're going to excludeindecency, just that one area of content, because we don't think that belongs in the home.QUESTION: But the -- the other part -- assumingit's some kind of stricter than just reasonable, howeverthat is brought about, the -- I'm very much concerned alsoabout something Justice Kennedy raised. If all that thisstatute means is that a person who wants access to the, deep -- whatever it's called -- what's the -- somespecial word. It's -- it's deeply like Star Wars almost. It's some kind of like an extra galaxy that's very hard toget to. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC All right. These , pages which now wereblocked -- what he has to do -- that person -- is he goesto the desk and says, please unblock it. I want to use --I want to do research and this is blocking things that Iwant. I'm not going to look at material that isabsolutely unlawful, such as this very obscene material,child pornography. And then the library is free -- willsay, fine.MR. SMITH: Well, Your Honor --QUESTION: Now, if all that's necessary, youhave to go to the desk, what is the great burden onspeech? After all, I grew up in a world where they usedto keep certain materials in a special place in thelibrary and you had to go and ask for them. So?MR. SMITH: Well, Your Honor, the -- the way the disabling provision is set up, first of all, is it'sdesigned to give the library some job to determine whetheryour purpose is bona fide or not. It says bona fideresearch or other lawful purpose. So the first problem isyou go to the librarian's supervisor who has the authorityunder the statute to turn off the filter and you have toexplain to them what your purpose is to look at the --QUESTION: General Olson said no, you don't haveto explain.MR. SMITH: Well, the -- the statute on the face th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC of it says the library is required to inquire into yourpurpose and make a decision about whether it is a bonafide research purpose or other lawful purpose for lookingat the material which has been filtered out by the -- bythe filter.So you have a discretion problem of severeproportions, I submit. Plus, you have a stigma problem,very much like the one --QUESTION: But not if you read other lawfulpurpose to mean everything except the specific categories,child pornography, obscenity.MR. SMITH: They will presumably have to havesome information about what sites you're interested inlooking at in order to determine whether that would belawful or not. So they will then have to inquire into, well, what's -- what is it you need to get that's beingblocked? Why are you looking at it? Is it lawful?QUESTION: It doesn't say that in the statute. All it says in the statute is that the administrator maydisable a technology protection to enable access for alawful purpose. So why couldn't you just sign a piece ofpaper saying I do not want to use this for an unlawfulpurpose? Period. End of the matter. What in the statuteprevents the library from accepting that?MR. SMITH: Well, clearly the library is th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC responsible for determining whether or not you fall withinthe exception. Even if -- even if they're empowered underthe statute -- and I think this is unclear -- just toaccept your representation without any furtherexplanation, you still have the problem that you're goingup to the -- to the librarian and saying please turn offthe smut filter. I need to get access to some material. So that -- that you're being required to do that. There'sa stigma problem very much like --QUESTION: Is there any other problem? MR. SMITH: There's a third problem, which isyou have -- a lot of times this will only come up in themiddle of your research session. You won't know thatyou're going to be blocked getting access to theRepublican National Committee site or to the site for some orphanage that is trying to raise money. There's -- sincethe -- many of the blocks are so irrational, you can'tanticipate it. So you'll have to stop your session and gotalk to a librarian about getting this thing turned off orgetting this site unblocked. Somebody will then have tolook at the site --QUESTION: But in a library, when you're lookingfor a book, it might not be there, and you might have togo to the librarian and order it or borrow it from anotherinstitution. I don't think that's atypical of what th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC happens in research. MR. SMITH: But certainly, Your Honor. But --but our submission is that you shouldn't just willy-nillycompare the Internet in the public library to books andhow they're handled by libraries because the Internet is apublic forum. It is all of this content that has not beenprescreened or preselected by the Government which theyare making available to you --QUESTION: But in this context, perhaps weshould not import public forum analysis. It creates lotsof problems --MR. SMITH: Well, perhaps --QUESTION: -- for instance, in public schools,as has already been discussed. So it's -- and there is nocase from this Court saying that having an Internet in a library creates a public forum. That's what we're here todecide I think. MR. SMITH: Indeed, Your Honor. And -- and theCourt has repeatedly cautioned that when you're making adecision about whether something is a public forum, youhave to look at the particular medium of communicationthat is at issue, not the broader context.So, for example, when the Court in Cornelius waslooking at the Combined Federal Campaign and trying todecide whether that was a public forum, the Government th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC said, well, it's the Federal work force. The Federal workforce is not a public forum. But the Court said, no, wehave to look and see what kinds of people have been givenaccess to the Combined Federal Campaign and allowed tosolicit funding from the Federal -- the Federal workersand has it been done on a selective basis or a generalbasis. Because it was selective, the Court ultimatelydetermined that it's not a public forum.It may well be that --QUESTION: Well, if you say that the world welook at is the people using these programs under theFederal law requirements in libraries, then it isn't apublic forum.MR. SMITH: Well, Your Honor, if you allow theGovernment to define its forum as all content under sun --under the sun ever invented by mankind except the piecethat they don't like, then I submit that -- that will bethe end of the public forum doctrine because there willnever be any situation in which the Government will beconstrained in any way to censor out a particular piece ofcontent that it -- from the public forum.QUESTION: Designated public forum doctrine.MR. SMITH: Yes, Your Honor. QUESTION: Traditional public forums will alwaysbe public forums. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC MR. SMITH: Right, but I'm -- we're here in thecontext of designated public forums. And if you allowcontent --QUESTION: I've always had trouble with thatdoctrine anyway. MR. SMITH: If -- if you allow the content --(Laughter.) MR. SMITH: -- to be defined as everything but,that's okay. Then there -- there is no doctrine.QUESTION: So -- so a -- a library that choosesnot to get the Internet at all is not a public forum. It's only when it gets Internet terminals that it becomesa public forum?MR. SMITH: Well, and it -- and then it has tomake another decision. Is it going to just turn the Internet on or is it going to do what it could do, whichis to say we are going to treat websites like we treatbooks. We're going to look at them one by one and decidewhether they should be available, whether they meet ourcollection development policies. QUESTION: But I thought -- you said there aretwo reasons why you should prevail, and we're still on thefirst. MR. SMITH: I appreciate that, Your Honor. (Laughter.) th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC QUESTION: But -- but you -- you said at the --at the outset that it would be -- as I understood it, thatit would be unconstitutional for you to do this on yourown initiative. And now you're saying that you could? MR. SMITH: No, no, no. It would be -- it wouldtrigger strict scrutiny for a library to do exactly whatthe statute requires. That's our submission, which is tosay if they allow the whole Internet in except this onepiece of content under the public forum doctrine -- orperhaps the Court wants to apply the kind of public forumdoctrine light of the whole question of whether --QUESTION: I just want to be -- I just want tobe clear. Suppose this is a general public library.MR. SMITH: Yes, sir. QUESTION: Could it voluntarily do exactly what the statute tells it it must do?MR. SMITH: Our position is that that wouldtrigger strict scrutiny that they would then have tosatisfy and --QUESTION: Well, and how would the strictscrutiny come out? MR. SMITH: Excuse me? Well, in -- in most, ifnot all, cases it would come out against it. It would beunconstitutional, clearly, because they're blocking a vastamount of speech that is not even sexually explicit. And th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC so we have a narrow tailoring problem. And there are muchmore -- much more effective, less restrictive alternativeswhich we had all this evidence at trial about.QUESTION: And that -- and that is -- and thatis because legally you would be a state entity denyingaccess to a designated forum to a -- a listener who is amember of the public.MR. SMITH: Exactly, Your Honor. QUESTION: Okay. QUESTION: What was your --QUESTION: What if the -- what if the facts werechanged in this way? The library -- I'm sorry. Did I --no. Please go ahead. QUESTION: No. I think we're still pursuing thefirst --the --MR. SMITH: Yes. I'm trying to make sure I getQUESTION: Sooner or later, I want you to get tothe second --MR. SMITH: I appreciate it, Your Honor. (Laughter.) QUESTION: Okay. One last question before youget to the second one. What if the library said, we're not letting inthe whole Internet? We think there are some sites that it th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC would be valuable for our research patrons to have. We'regoing to -- we're simply going to select websites or, out of the millions that are there and we're goingto let them in. Would that be a violation of designatedpublic forum?MR. SMITH: Clearly not, Your Honor. QUESTION: Okay. MR. SMITH: There's no -- there's no argumentthat we -- we'd make that that would be unconstitutional. They would then be letting them in as they would books,using their collection development policies, decidingwhat's valuable, and that would not be a violation.QUESTION: But -- but how did -- I mean, it'sfine to say it's no violation of the Constitution. Butyou're also saying yet it remains a designated public forum.MR. SMITH: No, Your Honor. QUESTION: Oh, it -- you agree it would not be adesignated public forum.MR. SMITH: Absolutely not. If they're notletting everybody in, as -- as general access. They'reexercising selective access. QUESTION: But don't -- don't many librariesalready exclude, for example, chat rooms?MR. SMITH: It's not a question of exclusion. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC It's a question of affirmative inclusion throughselection --QUESTION: No, no. I mean, but -- but myunderstanding was that some libraries that -- that haveaccess to the Web do not allow access to chat rooms. Theydon't think that that's a proper library -- libraryfunction or whatever. At least as to those libraries, Iassume you would acknowledge that there's no designatedpublic forum.MR. SMITH: No, Your Honor. We don'tacknowledge that excluding --QUESTION: I didn't think you would.MR. SMITH: -- excluding an area of content cantake it out of the forum doctrine.Let me get to my second point, though, which --which is --QUESTION: When you start on your second point,let me just ask you to comment on one thing because I wantto be -- I want the Solicitor General also to comment onthe same thing. Do you think, given the state of therecord now, if we agreed with the Government's submissionthat the district court's rationale was wrong, would it beproper for us to decide to rule on the second theory?MR. SMITH: Oh, clearly, Your Honor. I don'tthink there are any -- any facts that it would be th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC necessary for the Court that haven't been brought out inthat -- that trial and that lengthy opinion. Now, our position with respect to point twois --QUESTION: What is point two?MR. SMITH: It is that libraries --(Laughter.) MR. SMITH: -- even -- even if the Internet isprecisely analogous to books in the library context, thatsomething about the library context lets librarians in theexercise of professional judgment that they ordinarilyexercise, even in deciding to edit the Internet, that theFederal Government under the First Amendment has nobusiness using the spending power to try to distort thatmedium and push librarians away from their professional judgment toward the most restrictive possible policy oninformation flow into the library setting. In other words, our second point is that alibrary is very much like a public university which thisCourt has several times indicated is a -- is a specialsphere set off for the governmental promotion of privateand free expression, that in that kind of a setting, theFederal Government should not use the spending power toimpose a one-size-fits-all policy about --QUESTION: Is this a federalism concept and you th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC -- and you would cite our cases like Printz and so forth?MR. SMITH: No, Your Honor. I'm citing onlyFirst Amendment cases. I believe it is a First Amendmentconcept that there are certain kinds of relationships orcertain kinds of institutions in which the amount ofspeech that is being allowed is decided by the people whoare designated as professionals to run that institution. For example --QUESTION: So -- so your argument would be thesame if the -- if the State of California were doing it. It's not just the Federal Government. MR. SMITH: Yes, Your Honor. If it was done by statute. But -- but, forexample, professors should set the curriculum at a publicuniversity. I don't think that the Congress can say to the universities of this country, we've given you money, you therefore have to cut your departments. If you -- ifyou take the money --QUESTION: How about -- can the board of regentsset the curriculum?MR. SMITH: I think it -- when you get to thepeople who run the -- run the university as their job,that's fine, yes, Your Honor. QUESTION: I mean, that's pretty far-reaching. It's very interesting. But the -- the question -- I'm -- th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC I don't suppose you object to the Federal Governmentsaying, even if it's money to be spent on books, youcannot spend this money for material that it is unlawfulfor the student to see, such as child pornography. Areyou objecting to that? Suppose the Federal Governmentwere to say, no child pornography.MR. SMITH: Certainly not, Your Honor. QUESTION: Certainly not, okay. So then whatyou're objecting to is we let them cut that stuff out, butyou're objecting to the requirement of a particulartechnology where the technology may exclude some otherthings. MR. SMITH: Well --QUESTION: That's your objection. MR. SMITH: -- first of all, let me address the book question. What this law is analogous to is, asapplied to the book context, a law where the Governmentsays we're going to help you buy books. Here's percentof your book budget a year, and it doesn't just say youcan't spend our money on books of a particular content. It says you can't have in your library books of aparticular content. It starts to try to invade theprofessional judgments of librarians about what bookswould need to be to their patrons.And we have here a situation where percent of th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC the libraries have made a more liberal, more open policydecision than the one that the Congress favors, andthey're now using the spending power to push them in --QUESTION: Well, what if -- what if the FederalGovernment said, we're going to give you percent ofyour annual appropriation and you can't use that money toacquire a particular class of books? MR. SMITH: I think as long as it was viewpointneutral, Your Honor, and otherwise a legitimate line, thatwould be not a problem. But -- but here --QUESTION: Well, supposing you -- you can't useit to acquire soft pornography.MR. SMITH: To the extent one could define thatconcept, I think that generally the Government -- theCourt has said the Government can decide what -- what the money that it uses to subsidize the -- the localgovernment with -- what it will be spent on, but it can't,I think, then expand the subsidy into attempting toregulate things like the other book decisions that thelibrary might make.QUESTION: Well, even in areas where it'salready against the law to have materials that are obsceneor harmful to minors? You think the Government has noauthority to prohibit its aid to be used for that?MR. SMITH: Of course not, Your Honor. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC Certainly the Government can say that you shouldn't makeavailable materials to people that -- that -- for whomthey have no constitutional right to see them, obscenityfor adults --QUESTION: Right. Now, should we make anyallowance here? Is there any leeway, if you will, simplybecause the technology is not yet available to filterperfectly where it's evident that there isn't a hugepercentage amount of things that are being excluded, butthe software isn't perfect? MR. SMITH: Well --QUESTION: Should -- should our doctrine takethat into account, do you suppose?MR. SMITH: If -- if I might, just in answer tothat question, Your Honor, take a moment to describe what -- what it really is that the record shows about how thesefilters operate because I -- I think that that's reallyvery helpful. What these -- these filters are, are lists of --of sites that are banned for access in the -- in thesetting where they're -- where they're in effect, and the-- the findings are that there's about , sexuallyexplicit sites on the Internet at the time of trial. Andso we can assume that some high percentage of that ,are on the list, , perhaps, because there were some th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC that they missed constantly. Now, in addition, the court found that the --the very same list blocks at least tens of thousands ofadditional sites that are not sexually explicit at all or,if they have sexually explicit materials, are educational. They -- they teach people about gay sexuality or theyteach them about safe sex techniques. And so we have --on these lists is a proportion, a huge proportion, perhaps, perhaps percent of the sites that are blocked thatare not illegal even for children. Now, of the , or so that are blocked thatare sexually explicit, there isn't a shred of evidence inthis trial record that the Government attempted to put inabout whether any of those are obscene. There was noshowing of any kind that the filters ever actually find speech that is illegal for adults. And there's goodreason to think that there isn't a lot of it on therebecause clearly illegal material is distributed in adifferent way than the -- than the way that would allowthe filtering --QUESTION: Mr. Smith, you used -- you saidperhaps percent. This -- and General Olson said tensof thousands of pages, but consider the --MR. SMITH: Well --QUESTION: -- in relation to the Internet. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC In this record, at least in this opinion, thiswas the finding made more often than any other by thatthree-judge court, but every time they used the wordsubstantial -- and they don't give us any percent. Substantial over-blocking is the word that's come up overand over again. I think you must have said it in at leasta dozen findings. MR. SMITH: If I could -- if I could addressthat, Your Honor. The -- the court did say at least tensof thousands and they used the word pages at that point. But it's quite evident, if you look at the way they werereasoning from the evidence, that they meant sites. Andthe evidence is that there's about million websites onthe Internet, in -- in the accessible part of the Internetand that , of those are the sexually explicit ones and that the -- there are at least tens of thousands morethat are on the list. So it's -- the Government also says in theirbrief that about one percent of the Internet is over-blocked, which would be about , sites. So it is a substantial percentage. It is also asubstantial amount. And most importantly, it's a verylarge percentage of what they're blocking is not what theyintend to block.QUESTION: Mr. Smith -- th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC QUESTION: Oh, you mean the Government --QUESTION: -- can I ask you a question about --about the public forum doctrine? As I understood yourearlier answer, the Internet is not a public forum if alibrary does not take all of it and chooses to excludechat boxes.MR. SMITH: No, that is not my answer.QUESTION: Oh, that isn't your answer.MR. SMITH: No. Our answer is --QUESTION: It -- it remains a designated publicforum even if you don't take all of it, you say. Chatrooms. We don't want them.MR. SMITH: The way for it not to be a publicforum is for them to decide affirmatively what they dowant to include, not simply to say we'll take the -- the content of million people contributing to theInternet, but we'll carve out one thing. If you allowthat, then there is no designated public forum doctrine,and the Court has repeatedly said the distinction betweena public forum and not is whether or not there's beenselective access, which -- by which it means case bycase --QUESTION: Why isn't that selective access? I-- we don't want chat rooms. And it's not a total free-for-all, anybody wants to come in and talk. No, we don't th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC want chat rooms.MR. SMITH: Maybe chat rooms are okay becausethe question is whether that's a content-based exclusion. But clearly, here you have a content-based exclusion. QUESTION: It isn't content-based. No. Okay. It's not a content-based --MR. SMITH: And it --QUESTION: Now, so if they say no chat rooms, itdoesn't become a designated public forum.Why does it remain a designated public forum ifwhat they say is, in addition to chat rooms, we don't wantthat portion of the Internet that runs a risk of bringinginto our computers obscenity, child pornography, materialharmful to children? We don't -- I don't really know whatit is but it's not worth it to us. So we don't want chat rooms and we don't want this -- you say it's over-inclusive. It's not over-inclusive. It's whatever ittakes to keep out of what we're bringing into our librarythose harmful materials. Now, why does that mean I'vecreated a public forum?MR. SMITH: The fact that they may -- may or maynot think they have a good reason for doing it can'tfactor into the analysis, Your Honor. The way the -- thepublic forum doctrine works is you look at whether or notthey -- they have allowed access generally or not, and if th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC they have allowed access generally and then they say, butwe don't want this, then that's a violation or at least ittriggers strict scrutiny.QUESTION: And that would also be a violation ifthe Government paid for percent of the cost of thecomputer, both the hardware and the monthly billing forthe Internet.MR. SMITH: Yes, because it lets in everythingin the world. Every commercial site, every catalog,everybody's personal website, and a million other things Ican't even conjure up are all being allowed in andprovided to people in that setting. And then they'resaying, except you can't have this.Now, if that's permitted under the forumdoctrine, how can Southeastern Promotions be right where they said you can have any -- any play except Hair? Wedon't like Hair.QUESTION: Well, you can have it. You just haveto go up to the desk and ask for it.MR. SMITH: And you have to deal with exactlythe -- the discretion of -- of the librarian and aboutwhether or not he or she is going to allow you -- allowit. You have to deal with the stigma, and you have totake the time out from your research session to go do thatif it turns out in the middle of your research session th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC that -- that some site that you need to go to. And youhave to decide to do it not seeing the site because youcan't see it to know whether it's valuable to you. Sowhen you're surfing the Internet, the vastly more likelyoutcome will be that anything that's blocked people willjust bypass and go on to something else.QUESTION: What would your response be if -- ifyou start where Mr. Olson started and said, you don't haveto go through all of this? All you have to do is walk upto the librarian and say, I'm an adult. I want itunblocked. And it will be unblocked. Where -- where doesthat leave your position?MR. SMITH: Well, it's not clear that thelibrarian would say yes. The librarian certainly doesn'thave to say yes.QUESTION: I -- I think Mr. Olson's suggestionwas that the librarian, absent some extraneous reason,would say yes. So -- so let's add that to the mix. Thelibrarian says yes, unblock. What is -- where's yourposition? MR. SMITH: It seems he's on a horn -- the hornsof a dilemma. Either that is something that has got a lotof stigma to it that very few people are going to do, soit has the -- the effect of suppressing speech, oreverybody -- th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC QUESTION: Is that your position --MR. SMITH: That is my position.QUESTION: -- that even to do that would bestigma?MR. SMITH: Yes.QUESTION: So that doesn't solve the problem. MR. SMITH: Sure. You've got to go up and sayplease turn off the porn filter, Your Honor. QUESTION: That isn't what he says.MR. SMITH: Well, that's what it is.QUESTION: He says, look, you block a lot ofstuff. Just please unblock it.MR. SMITH: Well, if it turns out that peoplewouldn't be stigmatized by that -- and I think the courtbelow was correct to conclude that they will be -- then --then there's the second problem, which is what -- what isthe purpose that you've accomplished by requiring peopleto go through this meaningless exercise other than todeter them. That is apparently then the only purpose ofit and --a child. QUESTION: Well, it distinguishes an adult fromMR. SMITH: You can do that in many differentways, Your Honor, that don't require anybody to approachanybody. You simply have a -- a card that they put in the th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC computer that shows their age, and then it gives themwhatever access the library decides is appropriate orwhatever the parents may have decided is appropriate forthe children. There are many less restrictivealternatives including use of the filtering technology asan option, at the parents' option for different ages that-- that can be considered and which were explored in depthby the district court, which I must say looked at thisissue very carefully, was very sympathetic to the problemsthat arise with the -- with the sexually explicit content.It said the one thing we can't do is have oneacross-the-board answer even in one library, especiallynationally, to have Congress which has no knowledge at allabout what conditions may prevail in any given library,saying, well, we're going to push you, through the budgetary process, toward our position even though percent of the librarians have found a much more suitableset of solutions in less restrictive, somewhat moresubtle, more mixed policies than the one that Congressdecided in its wisdom it should try to force on thelibrary community using the spending power.QUESTION: Mr. Smith, this -- this law coverselementary and secondary schools as well, but thischallenge relates only to libraries.MR. SMITH: Only to public libraries, Your th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC Honor.QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. Smith.General Olson, you have minutes remaining.REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF THEODORE B. OLSONON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERSMR. OLSON: I would like to invite the Court'sattention to page a of the appendix to thejurisdictional statement which is the decision of thecourt below. In the first full paragraph, the court foundapproximately percent of libraries with public Internetaccess have some form of acceptable use policy or Internetuse policy governing patrons' use of the Internet. Now, what the libraries are saying here is theexercise of certain discretion violates the FirstAmendment rights of their patrons, and therefore every time they exercise that type of discretion in thiscontext, they're subject to strict scrutiny. What this statute does is gives the librariesthe right, if they choose to accept Federal funds, to makewhat kind of decisions, to exclude pornography whichthere's no dispute in the record libraries have, from timeimmemorial, chosen not to put in their libraries. So thedecision that they're making is the same one they havealready voluntarily made over the years.It would inhibit their decisions to exclude th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC e-mail, chat, gambling, dating services, and the otherthings that this part of the court below's decision heldthat they are doing already. It's the traditional type ofdiscretion that libraries have exercised with respect towhether they be -- want to be a fiction library or alibrary that's specializing in this or that or technologyor anything along those lines. So the type of discretionthat the librarians are saying violate their FirstAmendment rights are the types of discretion preciselythat they've been exercising for years.QUESTION: General Olson, I hate to use part ofyour rebuttal time. But would you tell me whether theGovernment thinks we should address the unconstitutionalconditions issue that's discussed at length in thefootnote if we agree with you on your principal submission?MR. OLSON: I -- we have no problem if the Courtdecides it, although it wasn't briefed and it wasn't thedecision below, but we don't think it's remotely possiblefor this Court to decide that question in this contextagainst the Government. If -- if the libraries are right,they're saying they don't have a First -- they can't haveit both ways. They don't have a First Amendment right tomake this discretion -- discretionary decision withrespect to their -- the -- the materials in their library, th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC and then they turn around and say, allowing us to makethat is an unconstitutional -- or giving us an incentiveto make that very decision is an unconstitutionalcondition.This is a condition that's connected withlibraries' traditional decisions. It's in an area wherethe Government -- the Congress of the United States andthis Court has said the Government has a compellinggovernmental interest already. It's a condition to theuse of the funds. This is not extracting from librariessome separate, unconnected decision. It's connected withthe actual use of the funds. And it does not say that libraries may not stockpornography. If they want to abandon the years oftradition of not stocking pornography on their bookshelves or in some other form, movies, whatever it might be, theycan still do that without violating this condition. So the libraries have plenty of choices. Theycan not accept the public money. They can accept thepublic money and use it in -- in the way that Congressdecided, which is consistent with their traditionalexercise of discretion. There's many distinguishing factors between thiscase and the cases in -- in which the Court has exercised-- expressed some concern with respect to the First th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC Amendment issues here. It is not -- this case is not aregulation of speech, but the actions of a Governmentacting in a proprietary capacity -- a library to make itsown decisions, deciding what to subsidize, what speech tohave in that library, what speech not to have in thatlibrary. The Government is merely -- is making a contentdecision, not a viewpoint decision. There's no contentionthat there's a viewpoint decision. The type of decisionthat they say is being forced upon them, which is actuallyvoluntary, is the same type of decision that libraries --librarians customarily make. The Federal statute and the library policy thatthey're complaining about expands information, it doesn'tcontract information. And this Court said in the Arkansas Educational Television case, a jurisprudence that wouldresult in the constriction of speech, rather than theexpansion of speech, would be a repression of FirstAmendment rights.If Congress can't put this condition --QUESTION: Thank you, General Olson.MR. OLSON: Thank you.CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: The case is submitted.(Whereupon, at : a.m., the case in theabove-entitled matter was submitted.) th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC 