 IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XMICHAEL D. CRAWFORD, : Petitioner : v. : No. -WASHINGTON. :- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -X Washington, D.C. Monday, November , The above-entitled matter came on for oralargument before the Supreme Court of the United States at: a.m.APPEARANCES:JEFFREY L. FISHER, ESQ., Seattle, Washington; on behalf of the Petitioner.MICHAEL R. DREEBEN, ESQ., Deputy Solicitor General, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on behalf of the United States, as amicus curiae.STEVEN C. SHERMAN, ESQ., Senior Deputy Prosecuting Attorney, Olympia, Washington; on behalf of the Respondent. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. C O N T E N T SORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGEJEFFREY L. FISHER, ESQ. On behalf of the Petitioner MICHAEL R. DREEBEN, ESQ. On behalf of the United States, as amicus curiae STEVEN C. SHERMAN, ESQ. On behalf of the Respondent REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OFJEFFREY L. FISHER, ESQ. On behalf of the Petitioner th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. P R O C E E D I N G S (: a.m.) CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: We'll hear argumentnext in No. -, Michael D. Crawford v. Washington. Mr. Fisher. ORAL ARGUMENT OF JEFFREY L. FISHER ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER MR. FISHER: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice, andmay it please the Court: The Confrontation Clause prohibited theadmission of the accomplice's custodial statement here fortwo reasons: first, because its interlocking nature didnot establish its reliability under this Court's Robertsjurisprudence; and second, and more fundamentally, becausethe accomplice's custodial statement amounted to out-of-court testimony that was never submitted to cross-examination, in violation of the traditional understandingof the right to confrontation. QUESTION: When you say out-of-court testimony,Mr. Fisher, what do you mean by the word testimony? MR. FISHER: What I mean, Mr. Chief Justice, issomeone giving a statement out of court that is thefunctional equivalent of what they would do in court,which is to say they're giving the authorities a statementthat is describing an event in a way that they understand th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. is going to be used in a criminal investigation. QUESTION: So it may -- it -- the -- it appliesto the -- if it's made to the authorities but not to athird person? MR. FISHER: Ordinarily that's the -- that wouldbe the dividing line. QUESTION: Why is that? MR. FISHER: Well, because the ConfrontationClause, to go back to the text and to start with the text,talks about being a witness against somebody. And the --and the common understanding of that term is to give astatement that you understand is going to be used in acriminal investigation, and when you're giving a statementto the authorities, here a custodial statement to thepolice, that's a different situation than the ordinary,everyday occurrence of speaking to a friend or a colleagueor something. QUESTION: But your ultimate criterion is was itmade with the understanding that it would or probably beused for prosecutorial purposes. MR. FISHER: That's the way I read the -- theterm witness against in the Constitution. It's thegateway to the Confrontation Clause. Yes, Justice Souter. QUESTION: So in an auto accident, a privateinvestigator -- it's a serious accident. Private th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. investigators for both of the parties come out and make --and make notes of what the witnesses said. Is -- is thattestimonial? MR. FISHER: The private -- QUESTION: It's a later criminal proceeding andit's -- MR. FISHER: Well, I mean, I -- I think thatthat's the kind of a statement that ordinarily is notgoing to be testimonial. You know, an auto accident -- Itake it you're -- you're talking about an auto accident interms of a criminal case. But -- QUESTION: Well, it's -- it's an auto accidentand insurance investigators are all over the scene when itlater turns into a criminal case. MR. FISHER: I mean, that's the kind of asituation that there could be a difficult question insomething like that, but I think that is likely not to betestimonial. QUESTION: Well, it's -- QUESTION: What about if the -- what about apolice officer who does the same thing? MR. FISHER: I think the police officercertainly tips the balance and certainly when somebody istalking to a police officer, that's the kind of astatement they understand is going to be used in court. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. QUESTION: Well, if -- if we're going to change,as you suggest in your brief, to using this termtestimonial, it certainly does not bring any greatcertainty, does it, if you say something tips the balanceone way or another? Obviously, you're going to get a lotof close cases. MR. FISHER: Well, I understand, Mr. ChiefJustice, there are going to be some close cases out on themargins, and I acknowledge that. But what the testimonialapproach does is it covers the core cases, the ones thatthe Confrontation Clause has always been concerned with. And really, it's not so much a new test. What-- what the testimonial approach does is really sum upwhat this Court itself did in interpreting the common lawand bringing that under the umbrella of the SixthAmendment starting in Kirby and Mattox, the Court'searliest decisions on the Confrontation Clause, really allthe way up through Douglas in the 's where actually inthat very opinion the Court uses the term to describe acustodial confession -- the Court uses the term theequivalent of testimony. And so that's the kind of asituation we're talking about to -- QUESTION: When you -- QUESTION: But you -- you -- your proposal wouldeffect a significant change in doctrine, I guess, from the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. Roberts case, and I think even under your proposal certaintestimonial statements would be admissible against thedefendant, for instance, where the defendant hascontributed to making the witness unavailable and soforth. MR. FISHER: Well, the -- QUESTION: I mean, you -- you would still havesome testimonial statements in there. Tell me which of our cases, since the Robertsdecision, would have come out differently under yourproposed approach. MR. FISHER: I don't think, Your Honor, anycases since Roberts. QUESTION: No case. MR. FISHER: Nor any case before Roberts. QUESTION: Then why change? MR. FISHER: Because the lower courts aren'tgetting it right, Chief Justice Rehnquist, and I thinkthat the problem is, is that the Roberts approach sets upa framework that is both unworkable in practice and isleading to consistently anomalous results. And I thinkit's -- QUESTION: Idaho would have -- v. Wright wouldhave come out the same way because the doctor who took thestatements of the child was acting at the request of the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. police? MR. FISHER: That's how I understand the factsof the case, Justice Kennedy. The victim was -- was inpolice custody at the time of the examination, and it wasin coordination with the police. So, yes, Idaho v.Wright, as well as all this Court's other cases, wouldcome out. But it's important, you know, to go back to thequestion and say, you know, why change from Roberts ifwe've gotten to the right places in -- in our cases. Andthe answer is, you know, certainly this Court may neverhave to change from Roberts, but simply understanding theway that Roberts is working in the lower courts I believeshould cause this -- cause the Court great concern.The -- QUESTION: But isn't -- isn't that our -- ourfunction in part? We occasionally take cases from lowercourts to straighten out misconceptions. Presumablythat's how these things get worked out. MR. FISHER: That's correct, Justice O'Connor,but, you know, I would submit that you're going to have topractically fill your docket with Confrontation Clausecases doing error correction in order to come out correctin all these cases. QUESTION: Well, we've -- but we've had Roberts th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. for years, and we certainly haven't filled our docketwith Confrontation Clause cases. MR. FISHER: Well, that's right. And that's --and -- and what's happened, because you haven't done that,is the lower courts are reaching some very, very badresults. I was responding to Justice O'Connor's questionabout why change from Roberts if we're getting to theright solution, and the reason is because the way that thetest is framed, it just simply is unworkable in the lowercourts. As we cited in our brief, there are -- wegathered factors that lower courts are using forindicia of reliability. We could have listed or . The United States is asking you, as well as theState, to stick with this -- stick with this reliabilityapproach for all of its faults. And you know, the -- theironic thing with that kind of a -- of -- of a position isthe more testimonial the statement is, the more reliableit is, and in turn -- QUESTION: Before you give the reasons, I -- Iwant to go back to what you said. You say the test shouldbe functional equivalent of testimony. The functionalequivalent is a little vague, and the law professors intheir amicus brief suggest that the question should be,would a reasonable person in the position of declarantanticipate that the statement would likely be used for th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. evidentiary purposes? Would you accept that as a -- a --would you adopt that phrasing of the question, or do youhave a different phrasing, or do you think if we didfollow your approach, the opinion should simply sayfunctional equivalent? MR. FISHER: Well, first of all, Justice Breyer,you don't have to get too far into that in this casebecause, of course -- QUESTION: No, no. But I mean it's true that --I realize that, but -- but perhaps we could do a littlebit better than say just testimonial. If -- if weaccepted your approach -- MR. FISHER: I think -- QUESTION: -- so I'm -- I'm -- I want youropinion on that. I mean, there -- we have several briefshere. We have variations on the theme, and I want to knowwhich variation you think is the best or which is theworst. I read you one of them. MR. FISHER: I think I agree with the startingpoint of the functional equivalent of testimony. And thenI think that the law professors' test, the reasonableexpectation, is a good test, and I would -- I wouldembellish that by saying that I think that what we have is cases out of that's going to be the situation thatI -- I believe the Chief Justice brought up, which is the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. -- somebody speaking to the authorities in the course ofthe investigation of a crime, somebody giving a statementto the authorities or directing one to them. QUESTION: Would there be anything that fit inyour category where the person to whom the statement ismade is not an officer, either a police officer orprosecutor? MR. FISHER: I think there may be, and thereason -- I think there may be a -- a rare, rare case,Justice Ginsburg, in a scenario -- you know, come up withhypotheticals. One possible scenario might be somebodygiving a statement to their friend and directing them totell the police. So, you know, simply using anintermediary where we know the statement is going to thepolice, but -- QUESTION: Why -- why should it depend on theintent of the declarant? I -- why is that -- why doesthat make the declarant a witness within the meaning ofthe Confrontation Clause? I mean, suppose -- suppose thepolice get -- get the statement from the declarantsurreptitiously. They do not let -- let him know thatthey are, in fact, the police. That -- that woulddisqualify it under the law professors' test from beingtestimony? MR. FISHER: Well, in that -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. QUESTION: Because he would not know that thiswas going to be used in court. MR. FISHER: Well, I mean, I think that's asituation -- you know, and this is where the definitionalproblem gets difficult. I mean, because the other part ofthe Confrontation Clause is a limitation on State power,and it says -- you know, going all the way Blackstone,it's a limitation on the State molding statements thatit's going to use later in a criminal investigation. Soif that kind of a situation were present where somebody ismolding somebody's statement, I think that might besomething the Confrontation Clause is concerned with aswell. And that goes back to Justice Ginsburg'squestion to say that, yes, there may be, you know,difficult cases -- difficult hypothetical out in themargin, but what we have here is a test that covers whatare the time-and-again cases that are coming before thisCourt and coming before the lower courts. QUESTION: Well, but -- QUESTION: Are you -- just -- just with thedialogue with Justice Scalia, because I'm interested inthe same problem, is it the intent of the speaker or theintent of the person taking the statement that would be --be more relevant in your view? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. MR. FISHER: Well, certainly I -- I -- you know,you don't have to decide that question in this case, but Ithink that if either one of them -- QUESTION: Well, of course -- of course, we do.I mean, I -- I really object to saying, you know, just --just don't worry about it. We'll worry about it later. Imean, if there are real problems that come up later, I'mnot going to buy your -- your retreat from Roberts. MR. FISHER: I see, Your Honor. I think thatproper -- the proper test would be if -- if one of the twopeople is so -- you know, is doing something with thepurpose of understanding it's going to be used in acriminal case, then we have a testimonial situation. Ithink you -- this Court could say that, but it -- you haveto look back -- QUESTION: You mean either the speaker or theperson taking the statement. Is that what you're saying?I don't understand your response. MR. FISHER: I think certainly the speaker and Ithink there may be situations -- and this is -- this issomething the Court can deal with about when this -- aboutwhen the -- when the governmental officer is the only oneand -- and is under such a circumstance that thegovernmental officer is molding the statement in such away and molding what somebody is going to say -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. QUESTION: Well, you know, the concern we oughtto have with your approach is we're going to get into somevery tricky questions if we go your route in decidingwhat's testimonial, and why buy a pig in a poke, ineffect? MR. FISHER: Well, the first reason is because,as I said, if you have difficult cases out on the margin,I submit to the Court the Constitution could toleratethat. QUESTION: Yes, but I think the professors thereare thinking that isn't difficult. I think they'rethinking it is the question of whether a reasonable personin the declarant's position would think it was likely thatthis was going to be used in testimony because if you lookto the position of the police, you will suddenly find thattape recorded informant testimony of an ongoingconspiracy, while they're planning to rob the bank, andsuddenly is kept out of court. And there is no reason.We wouldn't keep it out of court today. It would be --come in under the co-conspirator rule. So I think thatthey wrote these words in this brief thinking about it,and now if we're suddenly going to go and -- and open thisall up to a whole bunch of other things, I'd be a littlenervous about it too. MR. FISHER: No, I'm sorry, Mr. -- Justice th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. Breyer. I may have misunderstood partially the suggestion-- the hypothetical that I was getting. I think you'recorrect that the traditional kind of co-conspiratorstatements under that kind of a situation would come inunder either approach. What I understood the hypotheticalto be was a situation where somebody, after a conspiracyis done, is doing -- QUESTION: It's your view that a co-conspiratorstatement is not testimonial then? MR. FISHER: I think that's the ordinary courseof events. Yes, Justice Ginsburg. QUESTION: Well, why is that if it meets thetest of a statement made to the police? MR. FISHER: Well, if there's an undercoverofficer present, it meets -- it meets the -- the -- youknow, the test of a statement made to the police. Butthen I think this is where the law professors have itright, and this is where I'm agreeing with Justice Breyer. QUESTION: Not -- you're right. It's notautomatically. Under the rule today, if it's a co-conspirator statement, right in the police station,because it's an ongoing coverup conspiracy, I guess itwould come in. But I think under the new rule, if in facteverybody in that room knows that it is likely to be usedas a substitute for testimonial use at trial, it would not th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. come in. I think that's the point of the change. MR. FISHER: I think that's correct. QUESTION: And -- and -- QUESTION: Well, how -- how about a wire tap?You've got a wire tap going, and you hear co-conspiratorson -- on the other end of the wire. Is that testimonialor not? MR. FISHER: I think that's the traditional kindof co-conspirator statement that is not covered by thetestimonial approach. And -- and I think -- QUESTION: And under your approach it would comein without difficulty. It would not be testimonial. Isthat what you're saying? MR. FISHER: Without difficulty as to theConfrontation Clause, yes, Justice O'Connor. And I think it's important when we look at thesehypotheticals to compare what we have on the other sidewhen you look at the Roberts approach. Under the Robertsapproach, no matter how much -- you know, if somebodygives an out-of-court affidavit, if somebody speaks exparte to a grand jury, even if a witness takes the standin the middle of a criminal trial -- in -- in a criminaltrial and puts blame directly on the defendant, and then,for example, were to die or suddenly go missing, underRoberts you have the situation where the trial judge th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. doesn't strike the testimony, doesn't disallow it, butlooks to its reliability. And the odd thing -- and this is what I wasgetting to earlier. Compared to what the State and theSolicitor General are proposing to you today, the oddthing is the more testimonial it is, the more it comesunder the core concern of the Confrontation Clause thatstarted in Raleigh's trial and has moved all the wayforward -- the more testimonial it is, the more likelyit's pass -- it is to pass the Roberts test. QUESTION: Well, let's look at this very caseand tell me whether the result is any different at the endof the day under Roberts versus your test. MR. FISHER: I think the answer is absolutelynot, Justice O'Connor. Under this Court's Wright opinion-- you know, the rationale for the lower court wasinterlocking confessions. Under this Court's Roberts --I'm sorry. Under this Court's opinion in Wright, it isonly the inherent indicia of reliability surrounding astatement not other evidence at trial that a judge canlook to. So -- QUESTION: And therefore? I mean, relate it tothis case, if you would. Tell me whether the result woulddiffer under your proposal and under Roberts in this verycase. Why don't you focus on the statement and tell us th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. why it would or would not be different? MR. FISHER: It doesn't matter in this case,Justice O'Connor, for two reasons. First of all, because under Wright, you cannotlook to the defendant's confession in order to assess thereliability of Sylvia's statement, and that's what theWashington Supreme Court did. The second reason is even if you could look tothat -- to the substantive evidence at trial, severalother indicia showed that the statement here wasunreliable. The -- the witness was drunk. She said she'dbeen in shock during the events. She gave twoinconsistent statements within a -hour span. She was inpolice custody after being told that it depended what shetold the officers as to whether or not she'd be allow toleave. So there are several, several reasons to believethat the statement here -- QUESTION: Is it -- MR. FISHER: -- you know, is excludable underboth tests. QUESTION: Why is it excludable under your test? MR. FISHER: Well, under the testimonialapproach, Mr. Chief Justice? QUESTION: Yes. MR. FISHER: For the simple reason that she was th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. in custody giving a statement, giving a confession or a --or a custodial examination to police officers knowing itwas going to be used in the criminal investigation.That's the traditional -- it is -- is the most common --it is the core concern of the Confrontation Clause. QUESTION: How -- MR. FISHER: It brings us all the way back toRaleigh's trial. QUESTION: How about a statement like in Mancusior one of those cases where the witness is given priorrecorded testimony? There's been an opportunity to cross-examine. The witness is presently dead or unavailable.Does that come in under your system? MR. FISHER: Yes, Mr. Chief Justice. Mancusicomes out exactly the same way, and here's why. And thisshows why my test -- why the testimonial approach isactually quite narrow. All the testimonial approach saysis the witness has to have had a chance to cross-examinethe witness. QUESTION: The defendant. MR. FISHER: If, when it comes time for trial --I'm sorry? QUESTION: The defendant. MR. FISHER: I'm sorry. The defendant has tohave had a chance to cross-examine the witness. If trial th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. rolls around and the witness is unavailable, through nofault of the parties, and there's been adequate cross-examination, as in Mancusi and actually as in Robertsitself -- and -- and I actually -- QUESTION: Cross-examination by the defendant,not by somebody else. MR. FISHER: Right. The statement needs to begiven in the defendant's presence with the defendanthimself having the opportunity to cross-examine. QUESTION: Would -- would your approach overruleInadi? MR. FISHER: No, I don't believe it does. QUESTION: So you wouldn't have to say -- showthat a particular declarant was unavailable. MR. FISHER: You would have to show that aparticular declarant is unavailable -- QUESTION: Well, then -- MR. FISHER: -- if it were a testimonialstatement. What -- what -- QUESTION: Well, then how about a spontaneousdeclaration? MR. FISHER: Well, that's the kind of a thingthat's traditional hearsay. It's outside of the scope ofthe phrase witness against. It's outside of the scope ofthe testimonial approach. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. QUESTION: So it would come in under yoursystem? MR. FISHER: An excited utterance comes out thesame way under -- QUESTION: Without -- without having to showunavailability. MR. FISHER: Right. It's just purely a hearsayquestion, Justice -- Chief Justice Rehnquist. QUESTION: Because you say that's outside of theConfrontation Clause entirely, not lumping all of hearsay.I thought your whole point is we don't want to lump all ofhearsay under the Confrontation Clause. MR. FISHER: That's exactly right. I'm sorry,Justice -- QUESTION: But there's one aspect of this casethat before your time is up I hope you can enlighten meon. The reason that this witness is unavailable is thatthe defendant has exercised his right to prevent his wifefrom testifying against him. Is that correct? MR. FISHER: It's -- it's close, JusticeGinsburg. Washington law renders as a default rule that aspouse is unavailable to testify against another spouse.Mr. Crawford here declined to waive that privilege. QUESTION: All right. But because he could havenot asserted that or not waived it, why doesn't that carry th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. over also? Why doesn't her immunity -- his control ofwhether she can speak -- why doesn't that control as wellthe use of the substitute for her testimony? If -- ifthere is such a privilege, why doesn't it cover both heractual testimony in court and the substitute for thattestimony? MR. FISHER: Well, I mean, I think you're askingme as a Federal issue. As -- you know, as a State lawissue, Washington State law has decided that the second --that the out-of-court statement can come in. As aFederal -- QUESTION: I just don't understand the logic ofit. MR. FISHER: As a -- well, the reason -- youdon't understand the logic of the State law rule? QUESTION: The State -- yes, to say that he cankeep her off the stand, but he can't prevent a substitutefor -- for that statement -- MR. FISHER: I agree, Justice Ginsburg. It is-- it is a somewhat odd State law rule. There's a --there's a case called State v. Burden that the WashingtonSupreme Court held that the marital privilege applies justto the -- just to actually facing your spouse on the standin the course of a trial because it -- you know, it helpsyour spouse avoid the possibility of perjury and things th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. like that. And it said it doesn't apply to out-of-courtstatements. I think you could make a very strong argumentthat it ought to apply to both, but as a State law matter,the Washington Supreme Court has said only in-courttestimony. Unless the Court has any further questions, I'llreserve the remainder of my time. QUESTION: Very well, Mr. Fisher. Mr. Dreeben, we'll hear from you. ORAL ARGUMENT OF MICHAEL R. DREEBEN ON BEHALF OF THE UNITED STATES, AS AMICUS CURIAE MR. DREEBEN: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court: If the Court reaches the second questionpresented in this case, the United States submits that theConfrontation Clause should be properly construed to belimited to testimonial statements and their functionalequivalent, but it should not be an absolute bar againstthe admissibility of that kind of statement. QUESTION: Well, you kind of want it both ways.It's kind of an odd position. Has the Government taken adifferent position on the testimonial aspect in the past? MR. DREEBEN: No, Justice O'Connor. We took thesame position with respect to the limitation of the clauseto testimonial statements in White v. Illinois, and this th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. Court rejected that submission by a to vote. Werenewed it in this case in light of the Court's grant ofcertiorari on the second question presented in which thepetitioner's position is that this Court has too broadlyconstrued the Confrontation Clause, but within itscompass, it should be given an absolute prohibition. QUESTION: I don't -- I don't understand. You-- you say it's limited to testimonial statements. The --the clause is limited to testimonial statements. However,it is not absolute. MR. DREEBEN: That's correct. QUESTION: Are there any other provisions thatare in the Bill of Rights that are not absolute and can beovercome by proof that the -- that the overall purpose ofthe truth-serving function is -- is achieved? Forexample, the right to jury trial. Do -- do we approachthat by saying, oh, in a really complicated case where ajury would impede rather than facilitate the finding oftruth like, you know, a Sherman Act case, yes, it saysthere's -- you're -- you're entitled to trial by jury, butthe whole purpose of it is to achieve truth, and wherethat purpose wouldn't be served, let's forget about thejury? We don't say that, do we? MR. DREEBEN: No, Justice Scalia, but -- QUESTION: Then why do we say it about the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. Confrontation Clause? And that -- that's essentially theGovernment's argument, that -- MR. DREEBEN: The Court has said it about theConfrontation Clause -- QUESTION: I know it has. MR. DREEBEN: -- in a variety of contexts. QUESTION: And -- and the issue here is whetherwe -- we should retreat from those statements. MR. DREEBEN: Well, starting from the overallstructure of the Sixth Amendment, the Court has construedmany of the rights in the Sixth Amendment not to beabsolute in certain contexts. The jury trial right doesnot extend to all criminal prosecutions as the language ofthe Constitution would provide. It does not -- the rightto counsel does not extend to every criminal case in whicha -- arguably the text would require. The -- theCompulsory Process Clause has been held -- QUESTION: That -- that's just a matter oflimiting the scope. The right to counsel. Do you havethe right to counsel for, you know, at -- at every momentduring -- during recesses in the trial and so forth?That's -- that's just a matter of the scope of it, not amatter of saying, yes, this is within the scope. This istestimonial, but we nonetheless will not follow thecommand of -- of the constitutional provision that the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. accused is entitled to be confronted with the witnessesagainst him. MR. DREEBEN: What this Court has said about theConfrontation Clause is that it incorporated a preexistingcommon law right that had common law exceptions with it,and those common law exceptions were capable of growingand being developed along the lines of analogousprinciples. QUESTION: Growing and being developed so thatthe -- the guarantee of confrontation is just a guaranteethat in the future we'll -- we'll leave it there if wethink it should be there. MR. DREEBEN: It's not an absolute guarantee. What helps to, I think, explain that is to look at whatconfrontation involves. It involves having a witnesswho's under oath, who is subject to cross-examination,who's demeanor can be observed by the jury, and who isbrought face to face with the accused. Now, this Courthas held in a number of cases that all or some of thosecomponents of confrontation may be dispensed with when, inthe necessities of the case and in order to obtain witness-- witnesses who will be able to testify at the trial, itis required to do so. For example, in the instance of formertestimony, you have oath, cross -- and cross-examination, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. and you have at one point the defendant face to face withthe witness, but you do not have the importantconfrontation right of the jury having the opportunity toobserve the demeanor of the witness. And the Court heldthat that is required because the necessities of the caserequire overcoming what would otherwise be a confrontationright. Similarly in Maryland v. Craig, the Court heldthat the literal face-to-face right to confront thewitness may be overcome by the necessities of the case. QUESTION: But then maybe your position is notdifferent from -- from theirs in this respect, if you takethe law professors'. If you say, as you do in your brief,that it allows testimonial evidence in where thecircumstances are such that they serve the same underlyingpurpose as the Confrontation Clause, then all you'resaying is the same thing that they say here. Will theaccused have had an adequate opportunity to confront thewitness? In other words, like a -- a prior trial. Isthat all you're saying? Because if that's so -- MR. DREEBEN: No. It's definitely not whatwe're saying, Justice Breyer. QUESTION: No, it certainly isn't. You're --you're defining the underlying purpose much more broadlythan the law professors. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. MR. DREEBEN: We define the underlying purposeof the Confrontation Clause -- QUESTION: To achieve the truth. And if thereare other indicia -- QUESTION: Oh, achieve the truth. QUESTION: Yes. MR. DREEBEN: To serve the truth-seeking missionof the -- QUESTION: Sir Walter Raleigh -- if they came in-- Sir Walter Raleigh -- in fact, it is shown that all the-- the statements made out of court against Sir WalterRaleigh were made in front of bishops, and at that timethat was a very, very good security that this wascompletely true. Twelve bishops who saw the thing and --and they, you know, go -- they say, absolutely accurate.In -- in your opinion, that would then come in in SirWalter Raleigh's own case. MR. DREEBEN: I doubt seriously that -- that SirWalter Raleigh's case would come out differently under ourapproach. What we are talking about -- QUESTION: In other words, Sir Walter Raleigh --it came out that they did introduce this thing. So you'resaying if we take -- if we take -- MR. DREEBEN: The witnesses were available,Justice Breyer, in Walter Raleigh's case. And our th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. position on the availability of witnesses is that whenthey are available, they should be brought in. QUESTION: You would overrule Inadi then? MR. DREEBEN: Oh, definitely not, Mr. ChiefJustice. Our view of Inadi is that the statements of co-conspirators made to each other out of court in connectionwith the -- with the conspiracy are almost invariably non-testimonial statements. There may be a few rare instancesin which the co-conspirators are continuing the conspiracyand speaking to law enforcement, and in that context, inthe unlikely event that the United States submitted thatthose statements were coming in for the truth of thematter asserted and not because they were false, thenperhaps there would be some issue about our approach. Butin the vast majority of cases -- QUESTION: Well, what about in this case?There's a co-conspirator's statement. MR. DREEBEN: There was no suggestion in thelower courts that these two individuals were attempting tofurther the conspiracy or that there was a conspiracygoing on at the time of the statements. QUESTION: Well, I was going to say there was noconspiracy found, was there? MR. DREEBEN: That's -- these -- thesestatements were admitted, Justice Souter and Justice th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. O'Connor, as statements against penal interest. And thebasis for the State court decision in letting them in -- QUESTION: And not as a so-called interlocking-- well, it was an interlocking -- MR. DREEBEN: Yes. The -- the ConfrontationClause -- QUESTION: -- type of confession or something. MR. DREEBEN: The hearsay basis was statementagainst penal interests. The confrontation argument thatwas accepted by the Washington Supreme Court was that theconfession of Sylvia Crawford interlocked, which meantthat it overlapped and paralleled the confession ofMichael Crawford -- QUESTION: But the Government doesn't endorsethat position, as I understand it. MR. DREEBEN: We do not endorse that position,Justice Stevens. QUESTION: What is your position as to whatshould have happened with this statement? MR. DREEBEN: This statement should have beenexcluded, Justice Kennedy. It -- first of all, we thinkthat under -- QUESTION: Under Roberts -- MR. DREEBEN: Under Roberts -- QUESTION: -- as well as -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. MR. DREEBEN: That's correct. QUESTION: -- this theory. MR. DREEBEN: Under Roberts, as explicated inIdaho v. Wright, corroborating evidence that serves toshow the reliability of a particular statement is not anacceptable means of vindicating its admission under theConfrontation Clause. I can think of only two possible reasons why theconfession of the defendant when it interlocks with thestatement made out of court might be treated differently,and neither of those arguments seems to me to be valid. One would be if, as a factual matter, thedefendant's own statements showed that the out-of-courtstatement was reliable to a degree not found with anyother corroborating evidence, and I don't think thatthat's -- QUESTION: Well, couldn't he be impeached withhis out-of-court statement? MR. DREEBEN: He certainly could and wasimpeached with his out-of-court statements. And this brings me to the second reason, ChiefJustice Rehnquist. The defendant can attack thereliability of his own out-of-court confession. He's notbound by some notion of estoppel that because he said it,therefore it must be true. And the record in this case th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. reflects that Michael Crawford attempted to present aself-defense at trial that was substantially more robustthan the statements that he made at the time. And underCrane v. Kentucky, this Court has held that a defendantcan attack the reliability of his own statements. So evenif the statements did directly interlock, in the sensethat the defendant's statements matched the out-of-courtdeclarant's statements, that would not render them per sereliable for confrontation purposes. QUESTION: But they didn't match, and that's theoddest thing. On the key thing, the most important to thedefendant, he suggested that the -- the person heassaulted had reached for something before the assault.And her testimony -- or her statement is that it was onlyafter the defendant assaulted the victim that the victimreached in -- in his pocket. I don't see how those couldbe said to interlock. They seem to clash with each otheron the key point in the case. MR. DREEBEN: And -- and the State made thatpoint in its rebuttal argument. So there -- there iscertainly ample basis for saying that under existing lawthe statements do not come in. The question for the Court is should the Courtrevisit its Ohio v. Roberts jurisprudence because of theconcerns about whether Ohio v. Roberts was th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. constitutionally accurate. QUESTION: Well, concerns by whom? MR. DREEBEN: Concerns that I think are -- areraised by reading the Confrontation Clause as an originalmatter before this Court's jurisprudence made all hearsaysubject to the Confrontation Clause. Now, we do not submit that there is a practicalneed for the Court to revise its jurisprudence. TheUnited States has not encountered a significantlydifficult burden in admitting evidence under the hearsayrules under the Roberts approach as -- as it has now beenarticulated. And we also acknowledge that the Court wouldhave to develop a jurisprudence to decide what testimonialstatements means, if the Court adopts the testimonialapproach. What we do submit is that the way in which theword witness against is used in the Sixth Amendment,particularly when read in light of the way the wordwitness is used in the Fifth Amendment and also in theSixth Amendment's Compulsory Process Clause, that the wordwitness was meant to refer to people who were givingevidence for purposes of a case, not to people who simplyhappen to observe facts in the world and made statementsabout them and that are now being used as hearsay in acriminal trial. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. QUESTION: Do you think that developing ajurisprudence to decide what constitutes testimonialstatements is any more difficult than developing ajurisprudence to determine what are sufficient indicia ofreliability to overcome the text of the ConfrontationClause? MR. DREEBEN: No, Justice Scalia. I think theyboth involve certain challenges. What exists today is a body of law that hasexamined the indicia of reliability question, and withrespect to certain statements in the testimonial category,such as victim statements to the police in a conditionthat might be likened to an excited utterance or sometimesin statements in aid of medical diagnosis or treatment,and also true statements against penal interests such asguilty pleas by a defendant that does not implicate thedefendant on trial but simply acknowledges criminalconduct, the lower courts have concluded that thosestatements do have sufficient indicia of reliability to beadmitted. And our concern is that if this Court were toadopt the testimonial approach, that it not do so in a waythat would foreclose lower courts from taking advantage ofevidence that is reliable, unavailable from anothersource, important in criminal prosecutions and well- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. grounded in the theory of the Confrontation Clause as avehicle for achieving truth in criminal trials. QUESTION: Why unavailable from another source?Let's say you have this -- this self-incriminatingconfession, but the person is available. You could puthim on the stand to test whether that confession that hemade was true or false. Why -- where do you -- where doyou pull this requirement that -- that he be unavailablefrom? If indeed it doesn't violate the ConfrontationClause because it's sufficiently reliable, why does hehave to be unavailable? MR. DREEBEN: Our position is that with respectto testimonial statements, the preference is to get live,in-court testimony with all of the benefits that theConfrontation Clause envisioned for testimony. But sometimes a defendant who pleads guilty isstill awaiting sentencing, and as this Court held inMitchell v. United States, the defendant still has a FifthAmendment privilege and can refuse to testify on groundsof privilege. Other defendants who plead guilty in theirown cases will sometimes refuse to testify even on pain ofcontempt, and at that point the choice for the judicialsystem is either admitting that's -- that evidence in thecriminal trial or excluding it altogether and risking amanifest failure of justice because there isn't the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. evidence. And I think it's important to distinguishbetween those kinds of statements, the excited utterances, calls, true statements against penal interests thatimplicate only one -- QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. Dreeben. MR. DREEBEN: Thank you -- QUESTION: Mr. Sherman, we'll hear from you. ORAL ARGUMENT OF STEVEN C. SHERMAN ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT MR. SHERMAN: Mr. Chief Justice, may it pleasethe Court: The State of Washington is asking the Court to-- I guess, to simply say -- excuse me -- retain thereliability framework of Ohio v. Roberts. Excuse me. The -- the primary part of Ohio v. Robertsthat's important to the State is the reliability factor,and the reason that -- that that's important is becauseessentially Ohio v. Roberts recognizes that there areother rights and interests at stake in a criminal trialother than the defendant's confrontation rights. Forexample, it recognizes that society as a whole has aninterest in seeing that criminal activity is properlyaddressed. QUESTION: We could have written it that way, I th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. suppose. I mean, the Confrontation Clause instead ofsaying in all criminal prosecutions, the accused shallenjoy the right to be confronted with the witnessesagainst him, we could have added, comma, unless there areother considerations. MR. SHERMAN: That's correct -- QUESTION: It doesn't say that. It says in allcriminal prosecutions, the accused shall enjoy the rightto be confronted with the witnesses against him. MR. SHERMAN: That -- that's correct, YourHonor. And when I -- QUESTION: Where -- I mean, I don't understandwhere we derive this permissibility of not allowing him toconfront the witnesses against him so long as we come tothe judgment that the evidence is inherently reliable. MR. SHERMAN: Well, Your Honor, I guess toanswer that question properly, I -- I'll speak to what Iat least read and heard actually petitioner had in one ofthe amici briefs concerning the -- the history surroundingthe Confrontation Clause and how we got to have the rightto confrontation. And essentially what I -- I gleanedfrom that is there, at a point in time, was not a right toconfrontation, and over the course of centuries, the rightdeveloped. But it appears to me that it developed based-- developed based upon really what public policy was, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. that the -- the society would not tolerate the inequitiesof the systems that were in place that were denyingconfrontation and felt that it was fair that this conceptof confrontation take place. So when the -- the Framers of the Constitutionput that right into the Bill of Rights, it was based upon,in my view, their perception that the public policy thattheir society at that time wanted to recognize and makeeveryone know that they're retaining that to be theirright. I don't think, though, that it would rationallyfollow that -- that they intended that everything thatthey said be written in stone and -- QUESTION: No. That may be -- QUESTION: It could be amended. It could beamended. I mean, you know, there's an amendment provisionin the Constitution, but -- but until it's amended, it --it does seem to say that in all criminal prosecutions, you-- you have the right to be confronted. MR. SHERMAN: And I would agree. And in fact, I-- I think one of the points that -- that I -- I want tomake is that a literal interpretation of the ConfrontationClause bars the petitioner's proposal and the proposal ofamici and the proposal of the State to maintain theRoberts framework. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. QUESTION: Why? MR. SHERMAN: If you take literally theConfrontation Clause, I believe that it -- QUESTION: It says witnesses, confrontwitnesses. A witness is a person who testifies and Idon't see any literal problem there. MR. SHERMAN: I -- I believe that everyone thatcomes and sits on the witness stand and says anything thatis going to be used -- QUESTION: A typical case that -- where itshould come in, but I guess under their proposal it would,and under the status quo it probably wouldn't. We have acase of drug conspiracy. During the conspiracy, wellbefore anybody is caught, they discover, through whatevermeans, that there's a cup on the mantel, a pewter cup,that's filled with drugs. Who does it belong to? Does itbelong to the defendant? We have a witness who overheardthe defendant's wife shout out from the kitchen, Dink,have you got your pewter cup? It's on the mantel. Allright? Does that come in or not come in? Whether it doesor not, it's not a Confrontation Clause question. You say that we should make that into aconstitutional question. We should have all theconstitutional courts going into it or not? MR. SHERMAN: Well, I -- I respectfully disagree th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. with Your Honor -- QUESTION: Why? MR. SHERMAN: -- that it's not a ConfrontationClause question. QUESTION: All right. You say it is. In otherwords, every time that a -- that a -- a trial in any oneof million trials in the United States decides to admitsome hearsay, in principle, you go into habeas and theFederal judge has to decide whether that hearsay is or isnot, quote, reliable, end quote, for purposes of theConfrontation Clause. That's the present system. So you're the prosecuting attorney. Correct? MR. SHERMAN: Correct. QUESTION: You have experience in this area.Tell me if this is right. What I would expect to have happen is that allthese habeas courts, when they get real hearsay, nothingto do with the trial, you know, real hearsay like I justtalked to you about, they'll find it reliable if the -- ifthe -- if the State court admitted it. Then, however, they get to this kind of a casewhere the police were actually there writing outaffidavits which they're going to introduce, and therewhat they'll say is, no, it's not reliable. So in order to make the Roberts system work, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. what will happen is you have to have two ideas ofreliability. Now, has that been a problem or am I justmaking that up? Because what they're saying is theRoberts thing makes no sense. If you take it seriously,it keeps out stuff that should come in and it lets instuff that should stay out. And if you don't take itseriously, which is what must have happened, it justproduces a mess. MR. SHERMAN: To address the first part of yourquestion, Your Honor, I believe what I was -- wasattempting to say was that the Confrontation Clause,strictly interpreted, it is going to not let any hearsayof any kind in. Yes, that is my position. QUESTION: You mean the -- the only kind ofevidence that can become -- come in at a criminal trial isfrom a witness who's physically present in the courtroom. MR. SHERMAN: I believe that that would be astrict interpretation of the Confrontation Clause, YourHonor. To answer the second part of -- of yourquestion -- QUESTION: From your own experience. I'm quiteinterested actually, if -- if you followed what I wassaying. MR. SHERMAN: Well, actually -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. QUESTION: You work in this area and I'd likeyou -- MR. SHERMAN: I do and -- and I can say from myexperience, I have had very few problems arise withConfrontation Clause principles under the Robertsframework. And -- and as a matter of fact, in years ofpractice, this is the first time I've ever seen -- I'veseen an interlocking confession come up. But I think that the reason that -- QUESTION: Do you think this was interlocking? MR. SHERMAN: I do, Your Honor. QUESTION: Well, they certainly differed on akey element. I'm not sure it would come in under Roberts. MR. SHERMAN: And, Your Honor, I -- I believethat the court of appeals also, at least the majority ofthat court, believed that there was a difference betweenwhat the -- Mr. and Mrs. Crawford were saying, but the --our supreme court looked more closely at the statementsand observed that in fact they were saying the same thing. QUESTION: Wasn't the whole point of admittingit that -- that she had, in effect, said there -- therewas no weapon, the victim was not taking a weapon out, andthat was on the basis of her statement the prosecutor madeexactly that argument? Wasn't that why it came in? MR. SHERMAN: No, not specifically that -- that th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. she said that he wasn't taking one out because clearly shedidn't say that. And if in fact that was the -- QUESTION: Well, her description did not includeone. And -- and wasn't that the basis of the prosecutor'sargument, that this wasn't self-defense? MR. SHERMAN: In part, and -- and -- but hisdescription did not include a -- a weapon either. Both oftheir descriptions -- QUESTION: No, but the implication of hisdescription was that he reasonably thought something wascoming out and he then in one of his statements said, youknow, it was him or me. And the reason her statement wasadmitted was that it was not congruent with that, thatthere was no indication in her statement that a -- that a-- a weapon was being withdrawn. So at the -- I -- isn't-- isn't that the reason that the statement, for thepurpose it was admitted, was not interlocking? MR. SHERMAN: I believe that that was thatprosecutor's interpretation of -- of that evidence, andthat is in fact what he argued at trial. I think he wasincorrect. I think that if you look at the statement, itvery -- Sylvia Crawford very clearly says that -- that thevictim appeared that he was reaching for something in hispocket. QUESTION: After the assault. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. MR. SHERMAN: No, Your Honor, I respectfully -- QUESTION: Why don't we look at this since thetestimony is there? I read it that way. MR. SHERMAN: And -- and, Your Honor, as Iindicated, so did apparently my deputy prosecutor and sodid our court of appeals. Our -- our supreme court readit as -- as I am. QUESTION: But one of the worrisome things abouttreating all these things as just hearsay reliability. Idon't understand how this testimony comes in. When thewoman testified -- when the woman said in her statement Iwas drunk, I closed my eyes, how could that possibly bereliable? MR. SHERMAN: Well, she did say those things,but she also said things that indicated that that was notquite -- quite correct. She also said, well, I sawcertain things going. I saw Michael stab the victim. Isaw the victim doing these -- QUESTION: But she said at that time she hadbeen drinking and she -- that happened before. I justdon't understand this reliability test that allowssomething to come in that doesn't coincide with what thedefendant himself said, and that the declarant is saying,oh, I was scared. I closed my eyes. MR. SHERMAN: Well, and -- and I understand Your th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. Honor's question and -- and position. One of the thingsthat obviously you can't get out of the flat piece ofpaper is -- is what her true condition was, and that is aproblem. But I don't recall her saying specifically thatshe was drunk at the -- at the time, merely that she hadbeen drinking and she indicated that Michael had beendrinking as well. But I don't know that -- QUESTION: She did say that she shut her eyesand didn't really watch. Those were her words. I shut myeyes and didn't really watch. How could such testimony bereliable? MR. SHERMAN: Well, because she at the same --in the same breath was able to accurately describe thesame events that Michael had described in his statement. QUESTION: But that's unreliable. I mean, youhave a witness who says two -- two opposite things. I sawthis, and on the other hand, I shut my eyes. MR. SHERMAN: And -- and I understand YourHonor's position on that. I -- I just respectfullydisagree. I don't think that those factors by themselvesnecessarily render it to be unreliable. QUESTION: May I ask -- QUESTION: But suppose we said it wasunreliable. Let's suppose we held that. And in this caseit goes out. All right. Now, so we've had a pretty tough th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. standard in your view of what counts as reliable and not.It's been a pretty tough standard. It has to be reallyreliable. MR. SHERMAN: Right. QUESTION: Okay. Now, what's going to happenwhen the courts, the Federal courts or the State courts,apply that tough standard of reliability to hearsaystatements that have to do with the -- involved in thecommissions of the crime itself? In other words, not --not when they're in the police station giving confessions,but like the example I gave you with the cup. Now, suppose we apply the tough standard ofreliability to those. Would that make a difference?Would they then start to be kept out because they violatethe Confrontation Clause? MR. SHERMAN: I think at -- at a certain pointthe tougher you make the standards for hearsay to come in,the fewer pieces of hearsay that are going to come in. Idon't think that that's necessary in this case becausewhat -- if -- if we're simply talking about interlockingconfessions and whether such a thing exists and if they --as the question presents, if there will ever be such athing as a confession that sufficiently interlocks so thatit will be sufficiently reliable to be admitted or not,the Court could simply say there's just never going to be th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. a situation that comes before us where they will interlocksufficiently and -- and be admittable -- admitted. QUESTION: Mr. Sherman, on this question ofinterlock, I know we've referred to interlock in Brutoncases where they've got joint trials of the defendants andthat sort of thing. What is the strongest case you havefor the proposition that absent a joint trial, theinterlocking nature of a confession -- or a statement iscritical? MR. SHERMAN: I think it would be this casethat's before the Court today, Your Honor. QUESTION: I see. So none of our precedentssupport that proposition. MR. SHERMAN: I think actually the only timethis Court has addressed the interlock theory on itsmerits -- QUESTION: Is in the Bruton-type -- MR. SHERMAN: -- was in Lee v. Illinois when itwas simply the issue of the interlocking confession andthere wasn't any side issues of co-defendants in the sametrial or any of those other issues. QUESTION: But -- but we have said in othercases that the reliability, which -- which Roberts insistsupon, has to be established from the statement itself andnot from other statements. Right? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. QUESTION: Which would seem to excludeinterlock -- QUESTION: Interlocking confessions. That's theproblem I have with it. We -- we haven't had such a case,but the standard that we expressed in Roberts would seemto exclude interlocking confessions as establishingreliability. MR. SHERMAN: And if Roberts were the only casethat -- that the Court were to look at, that I think would-- I would agree that would be the case. But in Lee v.Illinois, I think this Court very clearly accepted --interpreted the concept of interlocking confessions, andthereafter in Cruz v. New York. But in Lee, the Courtactually set forth a test to be used -- at least inEarnest v. New Mexico, the Court called it a test -- but atest to be used in determining when an interlockingconfession can be admitted. Now, that followed Roberts. QUESTION: But wasn't that a joint trial? Ican't remember for sure. MR. SHERMAN: I don't believe that Lee was ajoint trial, Your Honor. In fact, I think in -- Lee was acase in which the Court -- this Court determined that theconfessions did not sufficiently interlock to make themreliable to be admitted, and also there was -- QUESTION: I thought Lee involved co- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. defendants. MR. SHERMAN: Well, I -- I believe there -- Idon't -- I don't recall there being co-defendants attrial, and I may be mistaken about that. My recollectionis that the -- the two holdings of Lee were, one, that --that they couldn't be corroborated by other evidence; andtwo, that the confessions simply weren't sufficientlyinterlocking. And I may be mistaken. I just -- I'm notrecalling there being co-defendants tried at the same timein that particular case. But my point being that Lee, of course, cameafter Roberts and, in my mind, established a third way of-- third form of -- of determining reliability that wasseparate from what was in Roberts. Roberts had yourindicia of reliability and your well-founded hearsayexception, and then in Lee it's my perception that thisCourt formed a third test, that being the interlockingconfession rule test, and that -- QUESTION: But the bottom line was that it --that that test was not met in the case, that there wasn'ta sufficient interlock. MR. SHERMAN: That -- that wasn't met in the Leecase, and that was the decision of the court of appeals inthis case. And it was our supreme court that reversedthat and said, no, we believe that they did sufficiently th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. interlock. QUESTION: I thought that what we said in Leewas simply that assuming that an interlocking confessionexception exists, this didn't meet it. I -- I don't knowthat we -- that -- that we spoke as though there was suchan exception. We just said assuming it does exist, thefacts here don't -- don't meet it. Isn't that what thecase held? MR. SHERMAN: I think perhaps. I -- I know thatin the very least the Washington State Supreme Courtinterpreted it to be a test, and I know that in Earnest v.New Mexico, this Court called it a test for determiningwhen interlocking confessions can come in. So taking itfrom both of those cases, the Washington Supreme Court inthe very least determined that it was a test, and in fact,in I believe it's State v. Rice said we adopt this newtest from -- from Lee v. Illinois as to interlockingconfessions. QUESTION: I thought actually that there werefive members of the Court in Lee v. Illinois to say thatconfessions of a co-defendant are presumptively unreliablefor purposes of Roberts. MR. SHERMAN: Correct, Your Honor. QUESTION: And that even if there was a so-called interlocking confession exception, it wasn't met in th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. that case. MR. SHERMAN: And -- and I can understand thatinterpretation. I -- it just -- I'm -- I'm certain thatit's not the interpretation that the Washington StateSupreme Court made, and in fact, most courts -- QUESTION: Well, maybe they better re-read it. (Laughter.) MR. SHERMAN: That's entirely possible, YourHonor, and I'm certain that after today, they will -- theywill do so. (Laughter.) MR. SHERMAN: The point -- but the point beingthat if there is not an interlocking confession rule, thenthere is not. If this Court says we -- there will neverbe a situation where one co-defendant's confession,regardless of how identical it is to the defendant's, willever be reliable enough, then so be it. Then we'll havethat test. It will be straightforward and can be appliedaccordingly. That, in all candor, is the lesser of theState's concerns in this coming -- in this case comingbefore this Court today, the primary concern of the Stateactually being that this Court retain the reliabilitystandard of -- of State -- of Ohio v. Roberts for avariety of reasons that relate essentially to, as I th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. indicated earlier, this underlying recognition that thereare simply other interests at stake other than thedefendant's that really need to be addressed. QUESTION: Why should the Court retain it whenthis very case gives us an example of how arbitrary thatdetermination is made whether it's reliable? When a courtcan call something -- a witness -- a declarant in theshape this one was and say that's reliable, shouldn't thatmake us worry about using that test? MR. SHERMAN: Well, I have to say that I don'tthink this Court or any court can make a test that is notgoing to have some problems, and in fact, both thepetitioner and the learned professors admit that theirsystem have -- has problems too. Any system is going tohave problems. The bugs are going to have to be workedout. It'll take years of -- of cases, and the -- and thereality is -- and I, of course, mean no disrespect to anyjudge -- anytime you get -- you have a judge making adiscretionary decision, on the same set of facts there'ssimply going to be some judges that will make exactlyopposite decisions based upon the same set of facts.That's just human nature. In this case -- and the point that I'm trying tomake is that Ohio v. Roberts is a known quantity, it's aknown entity. I haven't experienced any problems with its th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. application personally or in cases that have beenaddressed at my office since I've been there. A newsystem that is proposed by the petitioner and the amicisimply fails to take into consideration, as this Court didin Ohio v. Roberts, that there are other rights and otherinterests that are involved in a criminal case. Itdoesn't address problems concerning witnesses that becomeunavailable through no fault of the State. Yet, whyshould society suffer to have a criminal defendantreleased simply because a witness has become unavailable? And you know, you can't always prove a defendanthas made a witness unavailable. That is a really toughstandard. There are similar other cases where particularlyyoung witnesses, who are perfectly capable of telling youexactly what happened to them or what they've seen in anonconfrontational setting, but yet, because of eitherfear or intimidation, they are simply unable to come intocourt and testify in front of a bunch of strangers or in-- probably in front of the very person who is alleged tohave victimized them. They're not going to be able to saya thing. Yet, there needs to be some way to get what theycan say in front of a jury. I -- I think that any systemthat prohibits that is just going to be contrary to theinterests of society in general and to the interests of th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. the other parties that -- that are involved in the trialother than the defendant. And if there are no further questions, thank youvery much. QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. Sherman. Mr. Fisher, you have minutes remaining. REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF JEFFREY L. FISHER ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER MR. FISHER: Thank you, Your Honor. I think it's important to concentrate inrebuttal on the State's suggestion and the SolicitorGeneral's suggestion to retain the reliability prong ofthe Roberts framework. The Solicitor General agrees with us that thehistory of the -- that -- that you ought to be looking tohistory here, and the history on this point is crystalclear. From Rex v. -- Rex v. Paine in , other Englishcases before the Constitution, and then this Court's casesafter the Constitution was adopted, principally Kirby andMattox, and all the way through Douglas, the -- when thesituation arose that a witness was unavailable, the rulewas clear if the -- if -- if the statement wastestimonial, given to the authorities, it had to beexcluded. And it's not -- and the -- and the balance wasstruck by the Framers not -- not just because of these th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. public policy considerations, but because of the Framerswere insisting upon an adversarial method of givingtestimony. And when the Framers decided, when that wasnot present, that we were simply not prepared to -- toadmit the testimony. And so what we have is we have a clear ruleuntil at least the 's that reliability doesn't matter.And the only time reliability -- first was adopted by thisCourt. The only time it became important was in Dutton v.Evans when you had a non-testimonial statement, and thenin Roberts when this Court created a general frameworkthat it allowed reliability, all of a sudden, be into playwhen we were stretching the Confrontation Clause in ourview too far. But once you bring the Confrontation Clause backto the proper scope, as we're asking you to do and theSolicitor General is asking you to do, there's really noreason anymore to -- to keep the reliability prong. Thereliability prong was -- was adopted by this Court to dealwith the problem of hearsay that was coming outside thetestimonial type setting. Once you -- once you read it --read that problem away, we're back to the originalunderstanding of the Confrontation Clause. And the reason that you ought to stick with that-- Justice Ginsburg I think put the nail on the head when th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. she said the reason we're here today is that you have a --you -- you have -- what you have now is a system wheretrial judges can reach almost any conclusion they want.That's shown in our briefs. The Solicitor General doesn'teven describe to you how reliability -- doesn't evendefend reliability findings in light of all the briefingby -- by the petitioner and by amici. And so I think that when you look at that, youshow that the very concern that gave rise to Raleigh trial-- and I would say parenthetically that I believe LordCobham was unavailable in the trial. That's what thetranscript says. And the very problem was that trialjudges could do these reliability determinations in placeof -- of a clear rule of when testimony could be given. Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice. CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: Thank you, Mr. Fisher. The case is submitted. (Whereupon, at : a.m., the case in theabove-entitled matter was submitted.) th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. 