 IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XUNITED STATES, Petitioner ::v. : No. -LASHAWN LOWELL BANKS. :- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XWashington, D.C.Wednesday, October , The above-entitled matter came on for oralargument before the Supreme Court of the United States at: a.m.APPEARANCES:DAVID B. SALMONS, ESQ., Assistant to the Solicitor General, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; onbehalf of the Petitioner. RANDALL J. ROSKE, ESQ., Las Vegas, Nevada; on behalf of the Respondent. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY C O N T E N T SORAL ARGUMENT OF DAVID B. SALMONS, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioner RANDALL J. ROSKE, ESQ.On behalf of the Respondent REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OFDAVID B. SALMONS, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioner PAGE th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY P R O C E E D I N G S(: a.m.)CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: We'll hear argumentnow in No. -, the United States v. LaShawn LowellBanks.Mr. Salmons.ORAL ARGUMENT OF DAVID B. SALMONSON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERMR. SALMONS: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice, andmay it please the Court:The officers in this case went to respondent'sapartment on a weekday afternoon to execute a valid searchwarrant for drugs. They knocked loudly and announcedtheir purpose. They waited at least to secondswithout hearing any response and then forcibly entered the apartment. Those actions were reasonable under the FourthAmendment. The Ninth Circuit concluded otherwise based onits adoption of a rigid, four-part categorical approach toknock and announce cases that is fundamentally at oddswith this Court's precedents in two critical respects. First, it is inconsistent with the flexibility that is anessential feature of this Court's totality of thecircumstances test, and second, it turns primarily on theneed to damage some property in order to effectuate an th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY entry, a factor that under this Court's reasoning inRamirez should have no relevance to whether the entry at aparticular time was itself lawful.QUESTION: Did the court here say that thesewere the only -- the only four factors?MR. SALMONS: No, Your Honor. What the courthere did -- and I would refer the Court to -- to page, Ibelieve, a of the appendix to the petition forcertiorari, actually beginning on page a. What the courtdoes is it first creates four basic categories of knockand announce cases, and those categories are defined bytwo factors, one being the presence of exigentcircumstances and the other being the need to damageproperty.And then on page a, what it does is its says that the essential question of whether the entry wasreasonable is approached in the following way. First, wecharacterize -- and this is the first full paragraph onpage a. In addressing that inquiry, we characterizeentries as either forced or non-forced, meaning eitherproperty is damaged or not damaged. The reasonablenessmust then be determined in light of the totality of thecircumstances. Now, the court does list a number offactors that it thinks are relevant.QUESTION: And -- and it says that -- that those th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY factors are not exclusive. They say they're -- theyinclude but are not limited to.MR. SALMONS: That's correct, Your Honor. Andwe take no issue with its list of non-exclusive factors interms of whether those factors are relevant to thequestion under the totality of the circumstances test. The difficulty we have with the Ninth Circuit's approachin this case is that it has engrafted a rigid propertydestruction rule onto the Fourth Amendment's flexiblestandard of reasonableness and onto this Court's totalityof the circumstances test.In other words, what the court of appeals doesis it requires that where an entry is non-forcible, againmeaning no property need be destroyed, then the officersmust wait a significant amount of time before entry. Butwhere some property damage is required, it would require,quote, an explicit refusal of admittance or the lapse ofan even more substantial amount of time.And we think that that both is inconsistent withthe totality of the circumstances standard because itimposes this rigid rule of property damage, and it'sinconsistent with Ramirez which makes clear that the needto damage property, although it's certainly relevant tothe ultimate question of whether the manner of theexecution of the warrant is reasonable under the Fourth th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY Amendment, it's not a relevant inquiry into whether theentry at a particular time is itself lawful.QUESTION: Doesn't -- excuse me.QUESTION: Go ahead.QUESTION: No, please.QUESTION: I just had this -- I was just curiousabout one aspect of property damage and so forth. If acitizen's property is damaged by this, who pays for thedamage?MR. SALMONS: Well, Your Honor, there is --there is a statute that Congress has enacted and that is U.S.C. , and that authorizes the Attorney Generalto pay out sums of money up to, I believe, $, to payfor any damage to property that may result from lawenforcement activities. The way that it typically works, as I understand it, Your Honor, is that there is asignificant fund set up based on forfeiture assets, andthat those funds are used to pay for damage to propertythat may result during the course of -- of a search or --or other law enforcement activities.Typically what happens is the law enforcementofficers will not leave the premises until it is at leastsecured, and then they provide forms or other informationso that individuals can make claims --QUESTION: I see. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY MR. SALMONS: -- for any property that isdamaged. And -- and at least with regard to Federal lawenforcement practices, those claims are readily paid outand there are funds to do so through the forfeitureproceeds.QUESTION: Of course, that would have -- thatwould not apply. This was really a State search ratherthan a Federal search even though it was --MR. SALMONS: This was a joint search, YourHonor. This was a -- the -- the search was conducted by ajoint task force. There were both local police officers. They were at the front door. There was an FBI agent atthe back door. We think that this search, although it'snot in the record -- I don't know exactly how it occurredin this case with regard to whether any claims made for damage to the door. But because the FBI was involved inthe search, typically that -- they -- they -- thatinformation would be provided.QUESTION: I see. QUESTION: Do they pay the claim if -- if infact the -- the person is arrested and is there and is --and does have marijuana?MR. SALMONS: Your Honor --QUESTION: Do -- do you pay only if you're -- doyou get paid only if you're innocent? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY MR. SALMONS: It -- it depends, Your Honor. There are -- there are factors that are considered. I'm-- I'm not entirely sure of -- of what all of them are. If there is -- I would -- my understanding is that ifthere is -- certainly if there was another individual thatlives in the home or -- or otherwise, that even though theentry was -- was reasonable and the need to destroy ordamage property was reasonable, if there were other peoplein the home, the officer -- the -- the Federal lawenforcement officials typically pay that.QUESTION: Well --MR. SALMONS: And even when there's not, theyoften do as well.QUESTION: Well, this is a background issue, and-- and I don't mean to take you away from talking about the Ninth Circuit's case in response to Justice Scalia'squestion. QUESTION: Mr. Salmons, may I ask you onequestion on -- on your timing point? Your claim is thatthe -- that the issue of property damage is irrelevant tothe question of reasonable timing as distinct fromreasonable execution. I understand your argument when weare dealing with a situation in which there is an -- anexigency, a set of circumstances that said you've got toact fast. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY My question, though, goes to the situation inwhich there is no exigency. You're -- you're executing awarrant for -- to seize a stolen grand piano or something. No property is going to be destroyed if you wait a littlebit longer. In that case, where there is no exigency, notat the beginning, none develops while you're waiting,doesn't the issue of property damage have some relevanceto the question of timing? In other words, if there's norisk that anything is going away, isn't it reasonable forthe police to say, okay, give them another minute orsomething like that?MR. SALMONS: We submit, no, Your Honor, and forthe following reason, that in -- typically the -- thestandard would -- that would be applied in this kind of acontext would be whether the officers had waited sufficiently long so that they could reasonably concludethat there was a constructive denial of admittance orthat, as you indicate, other law enforcement -- excuse me-- other law enforcement concerns may justify a moreprompt entry.In the hypothetical that you gave, none of thoseother law enforcement concerns are present, and so thequestion then, we submit, would be whether the officerscould reasonably conclude that they had beenconstructively denied admittance. And there, the need to th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY damage some property, if it exists at all, is aconsequence of the denial of admittance, not a factor asto whether the denial had in fact occurred.QUESTION: But when -- when you're dealing --let's -- let's take the case in which the exigencydevelops while you're waiting. One reason why it isreasonable to -- to suspect that you are being deniedadmittance, let's say, in a case where drugs are easilydisposable is that there is good reason to believe thatsomebody would -- another or or whatever secondswill use the seconds to get rid of the drugs, ifpossible. You don't have any basis for drawing that kindof a conclusion in the grand piano case, and there --there is less reason to believe, less reason to suspectthat you are actually being denied admittance as opposed to simply being the victim of somebody who's slow atgetting the -- to the door. Isn't that a fair line ofreasoning?MR. SALMONS: I mean, I think the distinctionYour Honor makes between those types of cases is alegitimate one. We still think though, however, that theneed to damage property is really not a factor that goesinto whether entry at a particular time was reasonableunder the circumstances. It's a consequence of the denial-- excuse me. It's a consequence of the occupant's th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY failure to respond within a reasonable time period.QUESTION: But -- but maybe --QUESTION: Are there -- are there guidebooks? Is there any manual that Federal law enforcement officersuse that will say in -- in a knock and announce situation,these are the relevant factors? Do they suggest a time, atime span that would be appropriate? MR. SALMONS: Your Honor, there is training thatoccurs, although to my understanding, there's not aspecific amount of time that's -- that's provided toofficers that they need to wait as some sort of minimum. Rather, consistent with this Court's cases, the -- theguidelines and -- and the training that's conductedteaches the officers that they must take into account thetotality of the circumstances. That would include factors like how large of -- of a dwelling it is, what time of dayit is.QUESTION: But there's nothing -- nothingwritten down that suggests how many seconds, no manualthat Federal law enforcement --MR. SALMONS: To my knowledge, that is correct. The -- it used to be the case, as I understand it, thatthere was a suggested amount of time and that was seconds when there are no other law enforcement concernsthat are at issue, but that currently the training that is th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY conducted just focuses on the totality of thecircumstances and that they need to wait a reasonableperiod of time, and if there are no other law enforcementconcerns at issue, then that reasonable period of time istypically considered to be how long it would take toconclude that you were constructively denied admittance --QUESTION: But not if there are -- but not ifthere are other law enforcement concerns.MR. SALMONS: That's correct. If there areother concerns --QUESTION: I mean, what troubles me is you --you can't simply announce that -- that the rule is youwait a reasonable amount -- what -- what constitutes areasonable of time is how long it would be expectedsomeone would take to get to the door. You -- you can't adopt that as your uniform rule because otherwise, you'dhave to use the same amount of time whether there areexigent circumstances or not.MR. SALMONS: That -- that --QUESTION: If it takes seconds usually, ittakes seconds.MR. SALMONS: That -- you are correct, YourHonor.QUESTION: That's not right. Is it? MR. SALMONS: And that's a function -- I'm th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY sorry. QUESTION: That isn't quite right. Becausecertainly in a motel room, it would be less time than itwould in a mansion.MR. SALMONS: No. Absolutely.QUESTION: No. I'm just saying the exigentcircumstances would not alter what is a reasonable time.MR. SALMONS: And that's why we submit that therelevant question is not just how long it would take for aperson under those circumstances to get to the door. The-- the analysis must take into account as well valid lawenforcement concerns. And -- and all this -- what I thinkall this illustrates is what this Court has repeatedlysaid, which is this is a contextual analysis that has tobe based on the totality of the circumstances. There's nomechanical rule --QUESTION: Well, but may -- may I justinterrupt?MR. SALMONS: -- or a reasoned way to apply it.QUESTION: It's not how long it would take aperson to get to the door. It's how long a period mustelapse before it's reasonable to infer that the person hasrefused to come to the door.MR. SALMONS: You're correct. You're correct,Your Honor. That -- and that would be -- that would be th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY where there are no other valid law enforcement concernsthat would warrant --QUESTION: Well, yes, but -- but that also isnot affected by the existence or nonexistence of -- ofexigent circumstances. So the exigent circumstances sortof override --MR. SALMONS: Yes.QUESTION: -- how long it would take areasonable person to get to the door.MR. SALMONS: That -- that's -- that is myunderstanding, Your Honor, and I think that's exactlyright. I would also --QUESTION: Mr. Salmons, are you relying onexigent circumstances here because it was a drug case ornot?MR. SALMONS: Your Honor, in this case, let mebegin by pointing out that we submit that the to seconds that the officers delayed in this case is asubstantial amount of time. And it's no -- it's reallynowhere close to the constitutional line.QUESTION: Well, could you answer my question? Are you relying? We have to reweigh this, I assume, anddo you want us to treat this as an exigent circumstancecase or not? Yes or no?MR. SALMONS: No, Your Honor, to the extent th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY that --QUESTION: Okay.MR. SALMONS: -- by your question you'rereferring --QUESTION: That's what I'm asking.MR. SALMONS: The only reason I hesitated isbecause I think the term exigent circumstances can be abit ambiguous, and this is not a case where the Governmenthas suggested that the officers were entitled to foregoknocking and announcing at any point in the process.QUESTION: This was a small apartment, was it?MR. SALMONS: Yes. This was a small apartment. It was in the middle of the afternoon.QUESTION: What size? MR. SALMONS: It was a two-bedroom apartment. I'm not sure of the square footage. There are somediagrams of the apartment in the joint appendix. Thetestimony of the officers was that it was sufficientlysmall that the officers located in the back of theapartment could hear the knock and announce at the frontdoor.QUESTION: Does it make any difference if theoccupant says, wait a minute, I'm in the shower, I'mcoming?MR. SALMONS: Well, certainly that would be a th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY factor that would then go under the totality of thecircumstances standard. Whether or not -- I mean, thereare a lot of other things that the officers would have toconsider, including whether they're being truthful,whether they can hear water running, whether there's stilla risk that they may have drugs with them in the shower,dumping them down the drain.QUESTION: But in response to Justice O'Connor'squestion, there are no exigent circumstances of the typethat would eliminate the need to knock and announce atall.still --MR. SALMONS: That's correct, but there areQUESTION: Are you going to go on to say thatthere are some other exigent circumstances that are in the background here that --MR. SALMONS: Well, certainly --QUESTION: -- that counsel against waiting morethan seconds?MR. SALMONS: Absolutely, Your Honor. In fact,even though there may not be sufficient concerns aboutofficer safety or the destruction of evidence to foregoknocking and announcing altogether, those are still validlaw enforcement concerns in the context of a case likethis where the officers are there to execute a warrant for th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY drugs. The officers are -- have strong evidence thatthere are, in fact, drugs in the apartment. They did acontrolled buy not long before they went to execute thewarrant, and there is the risk at a minimum of thedestruction of evidence, and that those are factors thathave to be taken into account.QUESTION: And that would be true in almost anydrug case where the officers know that drugs are in -- are-- are in the premises or have reason to believe thatdrugs are in the premises.MR. SALMONS: Certainly I think the potentialfor that concern is present in almost all -- and not justdrug cases, but any case where the -- the evidence to besought through the search is subject to -- to readilydestruction and --QUESTION: And you say that's not enough toforego knock and announce, but it is enough to shorten thetime period that you have to wait.MR. SALMONS: Yes, Your Honor, that -- that it'snot enough to -- at least in the context of this case,that there was not enough reasonable suspicion of thoseconcerns to forego knocking and announcing altogether, butthose factors still have to be taken into account underthe totality of the circumstances in evaluating whetherthe officers here waited a reasonable period of time. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY QUESTION: Well, Mr. Salmons, as I --QUESTION: It sounds to me you're asking us toadopt the kind of per se rule that we rejected in the casethat came to us from Wisconsin in -- in the Richards -- inthe context of -- of determining how long is -- is --they're required to wait.MR. SALMONS: No. I think not, Your Honor. We're not suggesting some rigid rule that applies in allcases. What we're suggesting is that as part of thetotality of the circumstances, it -- it must be the casethat the officers that are going to execute the warrantcan take into account the fact that the evidence they'reseeking is readily disposable. That -- all we'resuggesting is that should be a factor. It should into theanalysis, and generally that would be a factor that would tend to cut in favor of a prompter entry.QUESTION: But isn't it true that the -- thepurpose of the analysis is to decide whether or not thesilence is the equivalent of a refusal? Because thestatute requires a refusal. And if that's true, I -- I amreally kind of puzzled as to why the possibility ofdisposing of drugs affects the time period.MR. SALMONS: Your Honor, I think we woulddisagree with your characterization of the purpose of theinquiry at least in part, and that is that as Justice th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY Souter's question earlier pointed out, in a case wherethere are no concerns that would -- that would warrant amore prompt entry, we think the question is whether areasonable officer could conclude that he had beenconstructively denied admittance. But -- but where thereare those concerns, even if they don't rise to the levelof foregoing knocking and announcing altogether --QUESTION: But isn't --MR. SALMONS: -- they're factors that cut infavor of a prompter entry. QUESTION: But isn't it true, if you just lookat the language of the statute, the inquiry is always hasthere been a refusal?MR. SALMONS: That is the way --QUESTION: If you're not relying on exigent circumstances, when you just go on in anyway.MR. SALMONS: That is the way in which thestatute is worded, Your Honor. This Court has --QUESTION: And that's what it means too, isn'tit?MR. SALMONS: Well, we think not, Your Honor. This Court has never felt that the -- that the terms ofthis statute are to be construed literally. In fact, ifthe Court were to start doing so, it would need tooverturn a number of its prior cases, including in Miller, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY where it read the statute to reach arrest warrants -- oreven arrests without warrants; Sabbath, where it readforcibly break to not require any showing of force. Whatthe Court has held that it really --QUESTION: Those -- those are all breaks infavor of the -- of the citizen. This is a break that isnot in favor of the citizen. There -- there may be someof us who are willing to twist the statute for the benefitof the citizen, but not for the benefit of the Government.QUESTION: Maybe others who feel equally.MR. SALMONS: Your Honor, I think --(Laughter.) MR. SALMONS: I think there may be a more benignexplanation, which is this Court has recognized that whatthis statute does is it filled a gap. There's a historical explanation that this statute filled a gap thatthen existed in Federal law because this Court had notincorporated or -- or subsumed the common law principlesof knock and announce into the Fourth Amendment and manyStates had. And so what Congress did was -- and thisCourt reaffirmed this in Ramirez not long ago, that whatthe statute does is it codifies the common law traditionof knock and announce, and that includes all theexceptions to knock and announce.QUESTION: Mr. Salmons? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY QUESTION: How do they get out of it? Becausehow do you say -- I mean, suppose the person from behindthe door says, oh, police, you'd like to come in. I'lllet you in. Come right in, but just wait minute while Iflush the drugs down the toilet. (Laughter.) QUESTION: Now, he's not refusing himadmittance. I mean, he's welcoming him. So how -- how isthe Court -- with open arms. He's delighted to have himin. He says, it'll just take a second. (Laughter.) QUESTION: And -- now, how -- how -- how has thelaw reconciled that which is obvious that he ought to --the police ought to be able to get in there -- with thestatute that says they cannot come in unless he refuses the police admittance? And he hasn't. MR. SALMONS: Right. You point out a very goodpoint, Your Honor, and that's why this Court has said that-- that the statute can't be read literally and instead --QUESTION: I don't think they read it --QUESTION: I don't think it's a good point atall. I think refusing admittance means refusing promptadmittance. It doesn't say you can come in next week. That's refusing admittance. Knock, knock, I want to comein. You can't come in now. You can come in next week. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY MR. SALMONS: The -- the point I was attemptingto make, Your Honor --QUESTION: That's refusing admittance.MR. SALMONS: The point I was attempting tomake, Your Honor was that what this Court has recognizedrepeatedly, and it said in Ramirez it was now decisivelyholding and resolving the question, and that is that thestatute here, , is not to be read literally but merelyis to be read as a codification of the common lawtradition of knock and announce. And as this Courtindicated in its decision in Wilson, that common lawtradition is a flexible one, and it's one --QUESTION: Does that flexibility mean that therereally isn't this bright line between exigent andnonexigent? There's kind of a spectrum. So while it's not exigent enough to do away with the knock and announce,there is then a difference between the case Justice Souterposed of the grand piano and the warrant is to search fordrugs which could easily be -- be disposed of.MR. SALMONS: We submit so, Your Honor. Wethink that --QUESTION: So it's not percent exigent, butneither can one say it's nonexigent.MR. SALMONS: That's -- I believe that is ourposition, that -- that although there were not sufficient th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY exigencies in this case to justify foregoing knocking andannouncing altogether, that the officers here were -- werepermitted to take into account the risks inherent inexecuting a warrant in this kind of a context, includingthe risk of destroying of that --QUESTION: May I ask this question? Does acitizen have a right to make sure that they're reallyofficers by getting a copy of the warrant or somethinglike that? Could he -- could a citizen come to the doorand say, slide the warrant under the door and I'll look atit and I'll let you in if I think you're genuine?MR. SALMONS: I'm not aware of case law on that,Your Honor. I -- I -- presumably they -- they arepermitted to do that. Again, all of that would go intothe totality of the circumstances. Any response from the occupants I think are things that the officers --QUESTION: Because the occupant -- I canconceive of situations in which an occupant might beconcerned that perhaps it's not a genuine law enforcementofficer. It's somebody who wants to hold up the house,you know. MR. SALMONS: Well -- well, certainly one of thepurposes of the knock and announce rule, Your Honor, is toprovide notice to the occupants that it is the police thatare attempting to come in so that it increases public th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY safety and -- and protects both the officers and theoccupants.QUESTION: What time did this take place?MR. SALMONS: This took place at o'clock on aWednesday afternoon, Your Honor. I think one of the remarkable things about theNinth Circuit's decision in this case is that theofficers' delay here really was nowhere close to theconstitutional line. to seconds is a substantialdelay. Even if this Court were to conclude this casebased only on the question of whether they had beenconstructively denied admittance, we think these otherfactors warranted a prompter entry here.And in fact, the testimony of the officers inthis case suggests that. The officer from the Nevada police that was at the front door stated that he waited along time in this case because he thought there was somechance that the case may go to Federal court, and hewanted to make sure that there were no knock and announceconcerns. The FBI agent at the back of the -- of theapartment testified that he -- he became concerned aboutthe length of the delay. He described it as unusuallylong and stated that he was concerned that the occupantmight be attempting to flee from another way. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY This is simply not a case that's close to theline, and for the Ninth Circuit to hold that the officersin this case were required to wait some additional periodof time that's unspecified, in addition to the to seconds, really does pose threats to law enforcementofficials engaged in the front-line law enforcementactivities in the jurisdictions covered by the NinthCircuit. QUESTION: Going back to Justice Scalia'sinitial question, the Ninth Circuit opinion is wrongbecause? MR. SALMONS: Your Honor, the Ninth Circuitopinion is wrong because it adopts a rigid propertydestruction rule and engrafts it onto the totality of thecircumstances test. And that rule is one not flexible enough to be consistent with the totality of thecircumstances test and, two, is inconsistent with thisCourt's decision in Ramirez which indicated that thequestion of the timing of an entry is distinct from thequestion of the manner in which the entry and the warrantitself are executed. The destruction of property may verywell constitute a violation of the Fourth Amendment if itis needless or wanton, but that, as this Court said inRamirez, does not make the entry unlawful and it doesn'trequire suppression. And so -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY QUESTION: Do you -- do you think that thedissenting judge Fisher got it essentially right?MR. SALMONS: Well, certainly we think thatJudge Fisher was correct when he indicated that one of hisconcerns about the court of appeals -- the panel'sdecision in this case was that it didn't follow its ownlist of factors.We also think Judge Fisher was correct when heindicated that all one needs do is do a thought experimentand think to yourself, police, search warrant, and countout to seconds to see how long a period of time thisreally was.QUESTION: Do you -- do you say that the -- theproperty line is improper only when there are exigentcircumstances or in all situations?MR. SALMONS: Your Honor, we submit that it isnot relevant to the question of the timing of the entry inall circumstances. QUESTION: You mean a -- a police officershouldn't wait any longer before he rips my door down,leaving the house exposed to -- to burglars than he --than he has to wait when that isn't necessary, when thedoor is open and he can just walk in?MR. SALMONS: That -- that's correct, YourHonor, and let me explain why. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY QUESTION: Why isn't that part of the totalityof the circumstances? MR. SALMONS: The reason we think, one, flowsfrom this Court's decision in Ramirez where the Courtdifferentiated between the timing of the entry and theneed to damage property.And two, it's important to keep in mind what theofficers in that situation have to take into account. They're -- they're waiting and they have to -- they haveto consider how long they have to wait to either concludethat they've been constructively denied admittance --QUESTION: Right.MR. SALMONS: -- or that there are valid lawenforcement concerns that require entry at that time.QUESTION: I'm -- I'm excluding the latter. I'msaying there are no other exigent circumstances, not eventhe -- the moderate exigent circumstances that are notenough to enable you to go in without knock and announce.There are just no other exigent circumstances. MR. SALMONS: Your Honor, in that case --QUESTION: There's no reason whatever. Allthey're looking for is how long is it reasonable to waitfor me to come to the door. And you're -- you're tellingme it is just as reasonable for them to have to wait only seconds when their entry simply requires walking in and th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY still seconds when it requires them to bash in thedoor. That doesn't seem to me to be a -- an applicationof totality of the circumstances. MR. SALMONS: Your Honor, we would disagreebecause, first of all, it's -- it's going to be -- it'soften going to be the case that the officer, at the timehe makes the decision that he's been constructively deniedadmittance, doesn't know whether the door is locked ornot, and he really can't be put in a position where he hasto check the doors and windows to see whether any areunlocked before he's allowed to enter. He's -- he has awarrant that authorizes him to go in, forcibly ifnecessary, secure the premises and search for the evidencecovered by the warrant. That's what happened here. Thefact that the door happened to be locked or unlocked is really not a factor that the officers can take intoaccount at that stage of the process. And it --QUESTION: Should we consider these twopossibilities in Justice Scalia's case?Possibility one, no exigency again, just takehis premises as -- as he gave it. Possibility one, thepolice knock on the door; they say, police, searchwarrant. A guy on the inside says, I don't want to seeyou. The police say at that point, come on, we'reserious. We've got a warrant out here. Open up. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY Possibility two, same thing. The guy says, Idon't want to see you. The police bash the door down.Isn't the fact that the police could say, comeon open up, we're serious a factor to take intoconsideration in deciding whether, at the point the fellowsays I don't want to see you, it's right for them to bashthe door down?MR. SALMONS: Again, Your Honor, we think therelevant inquiry is whether a reasonable officer couldconclude that he had been constructively deniedadmittance.QUESTION: Exactly, and if that's --MR. SALMONS: And it seems to me under yourhypothetical, he probably could. QUESTION: And I -- I think so too. That's whyI put it that way. MR. SALMONS: And so --QUESTION: If that is the only question that youask, I think you are taking a very narrow view of totalityof circumstance. MR. SALMONS: Well, again, Your Honor, in -- in-- I see my time is almost up. We think that flows fromthe principle this Court followed in Ramirez that thetiming of the entry needs to be separated from the mannerin which the entry and the search is conducted. That's th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY where property concerns come into play.If I may, I'd like to reserve the rest of mytime for rebuttal.QUESTION: Very well, Mr. Salmons.Mr. Roske, we'll hear from you.ORAL ARGUMENT OF RANDALL J. ROSKEON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTMR. ROSKE: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it pleasethis Court:This case is about whether your door, my door,and everyone's door is worth seconds. This casepresents the component of the knock and announce statutethat's the refusal component that this Court has notaddressed previously in any of its decisions. In Wilson, you said that this rule is of constitutional magnitude, and in the Wisconsin v. Richardscase, you said there can be no blanket exceptions to knockand announce just based on the -- the kind of case it is.And then we see in Ramirez the Court talks about and-- and so we see a line of cases where from Miller wherewe were dealing with sort of an oversight of the -- theCourt's decisions overseeing the criminal justice systemfrom a Federal standpoint --QUESTION: Well, now, wasn't Ramirez a no-knockentry where the door -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY MR. ROSKE: That's true. QUESTION: -- was bashed in?MR. ROSKE: That's true. And there were --QUESTION: And this Court said that could complywith the Fourth Amendment? MR. ROSKE: Yes. And the -- the Court in -- inRamirez noted that there were all kinds of indications andevidence known to the officers of the person, the suspect,the fugitive that they were looking for being armed,dangerous, likely to resist forcibly the officers, andofficer safety exceptions --QUESTION: But we didn't apply the statuteliterally there.MR. ROSKE: No. You never have, as far as Iunderstand the Court's decisions, applied a literal interpretation of the .QUESTION: Ramirez was a break-in -- a -- anentry into not the house of the person who was -- who wassought, but someone else's house where he was thought tobe staying. The -- the damage was done not -- not -- tosomeone who was concededly innocent.MR. ROSKE: Well, he wasn't concededly --QUESTION: Well, he had a -- he was a felon inpossession they found.MR. ROSKE: That is correct. That case involved th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY a fugitive who was not the known occupant of theresidence, and they had developed information that thisindividual was, however, staying at the Ramirez residence.QUESTION: One thing I thought that the NinthCircuit opinion really was contrary to Ramirez was itsstress on property damage, which -- which Ramirez madequite clear was not determinative.MR. ROSKE: Well, I think that the circuit,Ninth Circuit, has focused on property damage as, youknow, we have a statute that talks about breaking, and itsees that in -- in the context of delay as requiring moretime.QUESTION: Well, we also have an opinion, e.g.,Ramirez, which the Ninth Circuit didn't even cite, whichsays that property damage is not controlling. MR. ROSKE: Well, and that's true and I -- Iconcede that is so. And I would submit to the Court thatyou can decide that those guideposts cited by the NinthCircuit are flat wrong and reach the ground there that itis entirely reasonable under a totality of thecircumstance test that you affirm the decision. You cando a decision saying that the guideposts are simply wrongunder Ramirez, but the result under a totality of thecircumstances test is correct.QUESTION: When you say it's wrong, well, the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY argument the other way is what they said. In the lowercourt, the Ninth Circuit says that the police waited amaximum of to seconds, and the police say and theGovernment says that's way more than enough time to flushthe drugs down the toilet. All right? So every othercircuit has said seconds, seconds, is the maximum, seconds, and even the Ninth Circuit has normally held that to seconds is long enough to wait when it's a smallhouse, daylight so people are awake, and all it would takeis about seconds to get rid of the evidence. So they'veall said that.And this case, they say, is an outlier. This iswell beyond what every other circuit has done and doesn'tmake any sense. All right? Because the drugs will justbe destroyed.Now, what's your response to that? That's thebasic argument. I'd like to hear your response. MR. ROSKE: Well, the response would be that,yes, the modern marvel of indoor plumbing does provide anavenue for the destruction of evidence. It also providespeople the opportunity to shower themselves. And this isthe archetype kind of activity that occurs in the homewhich the privacy concerns are the greatest for. And --and --QUESTION: So your view is the Fourth Amendment th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY then says even though you have a warrant, probable causefor believing there are drugs there, and it's easy to getrid of them, there's just nothing the police can do aboutit except not prosecute the drug cases in thesesituations.MR. ROSKE: seconds is a -- is virtually notime at all to respond to a door.QUESTION: Why is --QUESTION: What does the shower have to do withit? Is -- is it your contention that a reasonable time ishow long it takes somebody to complete a shower?MR. ROSKE: No, but that's the kind of --QUESTION: Well, then -- then of what relevanceis the shower?MR. ROSKE: The relevance --QUESTION: It seems to me it's of no relevanceat all. This fellow said he was taking a shower. Well,surely you don't have to wait as long as it takes thenormal person to complete a shower.MR. ROSKE: I agree.QUESTION: And presumably dry himself andpresumably put on a towel.MR. ROSKE: Grab a towel. In this case, wedon't know how long Mr. Banks would have continued theshower, whether he would have become aware of the -- of th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY the officers at his --QUESTION: We don't know and we don't carebecause that surely does not determine what's a reasonabletime to wait.MR. ROSKE: Right. But the -- but the point ofthe shower is this. Anybody that's in -- in a home, in adwelling, and in a community such as we have that's hours, anything could be being -- sleeping and otheractivities where that would cause someone to be unable torespond within seconds can occur.QUESTION: First, just a quibble. But I readthe lower court as saying to seconds, and I take itas seconds because given that statement, had this been seconds, they would have said it was unlawful. And soif in fact you concede that seconds is too long, then I guess I'd have to reverse or is -- you know. So -- sowhat I want -- I'm -- I'm taking the outer limit of whatthey said.Now, on that, I want to be sure I've got acomplete answer from you because I was pushing you, and sofar I've said all the circuits say to seconds iscertainly enough time for the policemen to wait where it'sa drug case, a small house, and you could easily get ridof the evidence. In response to that, you said that youthought that seconds -- but you should say -- is -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY is actually -- they have to wait that long. Now, is thereanything other than your opinion, which I respect, but --but what I'd like to know is whether there is any basis inauthority or reason or something, other than that, thatwould support your position. MR. ROSKE: All of the cases that were cited inthe briefs I tried to distinguish as having differencesthat were fundamental to the case, the sole occupant, forinstance, they note --QUESTION: Well, why don't we take the NinthCircuit's own subsequent case where it has a footnote? This is the Chavez-Miranda --MR. ROSKE: Right, Your Honor. QUESTION: -- where the court said, Banksappears to be a departure from our prior decisions. Asnoted by the trial court, we have found a - to -secondwait to be reasonable in similar circumstances. MR. ROSKE: I think that the court in Chavez-Miranda focused on the fact there were numerous occupantsin the -- in the residence and that even if -- if one ortwo were engaged in some kind of private activity, theothers would be able to respond quickly to the door.QUESTION: But why is -- isn't to secondsample, if the question is reasonable time, in a smallapartment to get to the door to open it? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY MR. ROSKE: It's not reasonable because it'svirtually no time at all. If you're in the bathroom onthe toilet, if you're in the bedroom naked --QUESTION: It's the time -- it is the time inwhich a telephone would ring at least twice and perhapsthree times. Usually people pick up a phone after thesecond ring. If they can manage to do that, why wouldn'tone expect the same interval would apply in getting to thedoor?MR. ROSKE: Well, there are plenty of times thatyou may be home and you don't get to the phone in timebecause you're engaged in some activity that -- thatprevents you from immediately responding. And that's thepoint of this case. They had --QUESTION: No, but isn't -- isn't the problem that -- that Justice Ginsburg is asking you about what isa reasonable time, and your answers always get to thepoint of saying, well, there are particular facts thatmight have taken somebody longer than a reasonable time. And -- and that, of course, is always true. They mighthave been asleep at : in the afternoon. They mighthave been sick with a virus so that they couldn't get upquickly. There are all sorts of reasons. But the issueis -- is an issue of a reasonable time under thecircumstances known to the officer. Isn't that correct? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY MR. ROSKE: I believe that we cannot simplymeasure the -- the test from the eyes of the officer. Youhave a duty --QUESTION: Well, they're the ones who have todecide how long to wait.MR. ROSKE: Right, and they -- what did theyknow? They knew nothing in terms of exigentcircumstances. And I would like to call the Court'sattention --QUESTION: Yes, but --QUESTION: They -- they knew they were dealingwith drugs, that the warrant was to search for drugs.MR. ROSKE: They knew that they were searchingfor drugs, yes, and not grand pianos. But the FourthAmendment, as you -- as you interpreted it in your cases, that -- you know, we just don't get rid of the refusalcomponent or the knock and announce rule simply becausedrugs are involved.QUESTION: You don't get rid of it, but as Isuggested to Mr. Salmons, maybe there isn't this dichotomybetween exigent and nonexigent, but that it's not exigentenough to avoid knock and announce altogether. On theother hand, it isn't like the grand piano. That's notgoing down the toilet.MR. ROSKE: Well, if you look at the appendix, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY joint appendix, at page , and see what the officer saidabout why he entered, he simply said that he thought that seconds was reasonable and that this case might goFederal and they've heard about problems with this. Andhe doesn't mention anything about a concern that evidenceis being flushed or that he heard anything. And remember,again, this is a small apartment. If he heard the toiletflushing, presumably he'd heard that.QUESTION: Let me -- let me talk about the smallapartment. Might it not be the rule that when -- whenthere are exigent circumstances, the amount of time youhave to give has nothing to do with how long it takes toget to the door. It has to do with how long it'sreasonable to wait with -- without impairing the lawenforcement purpose that is threatened by the exigent circumstances? I cannot imagine, can you, that -- that peopledealing with drugs are perfectly safe so long as they doit in a really big house with lots of toilets?(Laughter.) QUESTION: Okay? So you have to wait seconds. They could way over at the other end of thehouse. What is a reasonable time for this house? It's seconds. So let's do all of our -- all of our drugactivity in -- in a big house. That can't be the rule. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY It seems to me the reasonable time is what isreasonable to go in in order to prevent the exigentcircumstance from frustrating law enforcement. Doesn'tthat make more sense?MR. ROSKE: I think that the test should be aprotecting of the individual's rights from intrusions thatare unreasonable, and that all deference should not begiven to law enforcement officers' decisions. In thiscase, he didn't suggest at all that he had to go inbecause he thought drugs were being chucked in thecommode. It's not there in the record and nowhere in --in -- below or in the Ninth Circuit did the Governmentargue such a theory. They simply said it was a reasonableperiod of time.QUESTION: Well, but if -- if we're to decide this case on the basis of reasonableness, certainly we'vegot to take into consideration common sense factors thatmay be suggested other than by the officer at the door.MR. ROSKE: Well, that's correct, but I thinkthis Court has a supervisory power and it has to notabdicate all decisions to the officer at the door. Andthis officer has simply made a subjective decision there,saying that was what he understood would be reasonable. There was an earlier --QUESTION: Mr. Roske, do you -- do you have a th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY period of time that you would agree was reasonable?MR. ROSKE: Well, I do note that the Ward casecited in my brief talked about the FBI adopting some -second rule. Obviously, that would have been about seconds more time than -- than was here. I think that youcan't set a bright line rule and -- and that it has --QUESTION: Can you set a rule for the facts ofthis case?MR. ROSKE: Well, we need to set a prophylacticrule that recognizes the -- the dignity and the importanceof the refusal component. In this case --QUESTION: I know, but what do you think thatrule is?QUESTION: Length-of-the-shower rule. (Laughter.) QUESTION: For this case. MR. ROSKE: I'm -- I'm suggesting that --QUESTION: Well, no. I think you have agreedthe fact he's in the shower really is irrelevant becausethe officers didn't know it, and you must judge thesethings ex ante not ex post.MR. ROSKE: Right. And I -- I agree. Just asthey -- if they had heard the toilet flushing repeatedly,that might be a factor to hasten their --QUESTION: No, but I'm still curious if you -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY if you do have a view as to what would be reasonable onthe facts of this case.MR. ROSKE: Well, I think that -- that certainly seconds was an unreasonably short period of time, andthat --QUESTION: I understand you think to seconds is unreasonable. Do you have a view as to whatwould have been reasonable?MR. ROSKE: I believe that a -- a wait towards aminute might be more reasonable under these facts wherethey have absolute -- see, they're confronted with silenceat the door. It's not as if there's anything giving themany kind --QUESTION: Yes, but so you have to be contendingthat the Constitution requires them to wait -- the Constitution and the statute required them to wait acertain period of time that was longer than to seconds.MR. ROSKE: What we're --QUESTION: And if so, I just wonder if you havea theory as to how much longer.MR. ROSKE: Well, I -- I --QUESTION: I know say that minutes -- seconds would have been okay. MR. ROSKE: Honestly, I don't know what would be th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY a figure to put on that. I just know that this to seconds was too little time. QUESTION: Well, would you be making the sameargument if it had been seconds? Let's put it thatway. Would you be here --MR. ROSKE: It would --QUESTION: -- making this same argument? MR. ROSKE: My argument would be less strong asmore time passed. In this fair city, you're given seconds to cross a major boulevard according to the -- theflashing time, and Mr. Banks had less than to respondto his door.QUESTION: I thought it was to , the pointJustice Breyer made.MR. ROSKE: Well --QUESTION: You keep saying , but I thought --I thought we took the facts --MR. ROSKE: Well --QUESTION: -- as to . Do we not?MR. ROSKE: The officer --QUESTION: Is there something else?MR. ROSKE: The officer conducting the entrytestified that it was at least seconds. Now, the FBIofficer -- or agent in the back of the building thought itwas closer to . I submit that the officer who -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY QUESTION: And what did the court below treat itas?MR. ROSKE: to seconds.QUESTION: So don't we just take that as a givenin resolving it? You don't want us to redetermine thefacts, do you? MR. ROSKE: No, I do not wish the Court to -- toredetermine the facts. I just simply point out that ofthe two time frames that were cited below in the record,the officer at the door was in the better position, Ibelieve, to know how much time elapsed since he wasconducting the entry.QUESTION: But -- and he says it's a minimum --a minimum of , and you used the word maximum a fewtimes. There's no evidence of maximum.MR. ROSKE: At least seconds is the quotethat I have at -- at page of the joint appendix of theofficer Wilson. And the refusal component of the -- of the knockand announce statute is, of course -- it's not frozen intime, I understand, but it was considered to be animportant element and component of the -- of the knock andannounce statute. It wasn't some -- it had dignity. Ithad purpose, and its purpose is served, including theprotection of the officers, when they come to the door and th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY knock at a citizen's residence.And they knock at a substantial number ofinnocent citizens' residents, and their doors were seconds to seconds, absent any kind of exigentcircumstance at all, that they may just simply believethat they're going to find drugs at the residence. Icited in --QUESTION: It's not that they believe. They've-- they've established probable cause before a magistrate,probable cause to believe that there's contraband in theapartment.MR. ROSKE: They did, Your Honor. And -- butwhat I want to point out is that they waited days fromthe time they got the warrant to execute it. Theycouldn't wait more -- a few more seconds at the time they were at the threshold.QUESTION: Well, I mean, you're not inclined toflush it down the toilet when there's nobody knocking atthe door. MR. ROSKE: Well --QUESTION: I mean, this is valuable stuff. You're going to get rid of it during those days? You'regoing to get rid of it after you hear somebody saying,police at the door.MR. ROSKE: Well, but in this case there was no th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY effort and there was nothing in the record to suggestthere was any destruction of evidence by Mr. Banks in thiscase. And I think that it's an overbroad assumption thatevery time the officers come on a search warrant for drugsthat the person that they're going to be searching isgoing to go to the commode and chuck it.QUESTION: Well, he was taking a shower. Heprobably didn't even hear them at the door.MR. ROSKE: He did not --QUESTION: Had he not been taking a shower, hemight have been flushing the toilet.MR. ROSKE: Well, we -- we know -- all we knowis that he was in the shower and that he made no effort,upon hearing the door crash in, to -- to take any step inthat direction.QUESTION: And given his condition when he didcome to the door, it's likely that seconds wouldn'thave made any difference. Isn't it so?MR. ROSKE: Well, the inevitable discoverydoctrine I know has been much raised here by the SolicitorGeneral's office in their brief, but it has no applicationin a prophylactic rule that, of course, as the -- therefusal component should be. Obviously, it's not asituation this Court was confronted with in Nix wherethere was an independent investigation finding a -- a th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY young girl's body, that the investigation by the communityto find that was wholly independent of the law officers'efforts there to a -- a confession.So it just has -- if -- if you find that thereis a violation here that -- that the inevitable discoverydoctrine simply would have no -- no purpose or effect in-- in your determination, because if you do decide that,as the Seventh Circuit has, that inevitable discoverydoctrine applies to all knock and announce issues, you'llessentially have no judicial review. You have the title,I suppose, actions that might be brought occasionallybut those are of no real deterrent to law enforcement. They --QUESTION: Going back to -- to not getting intothe inevitable discovery rule, but you have said that the judgment of the Ninth Circuit was right although not itsopinion. So if you were to explain why that judgment isright, what would you say? What would you say aboutdestroying the -- the door? What would you say about the to seconds? What would be the opinion that youwould write to justify this judgment? MR. ROSKE: I would -- I would focus on the factthat we're dealing with a dwelling and not an office, thatwe're dealing with a habitation where private activitiesoccur and routinely, and that in this case there was th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY absolutely nothing to give the officers at the thresholdany additional reason or justification for acting wtihhaste. I would say that the court --QUESTION: What about the -- the drugs, the --the fact that it was a drug charge and that drugs werethought to be on the premises? Do you not think thatgives then officers at least a factor other than thesimply bare bones thing?MR. ROSKE: Well, yes, I -- I would agree that,you know, obviously if it were televisions or if it weregrand pianos, the idea that somebody is going to chop theminto splinters or into fragments and the -- thwart theofficer's whole purpose would entirely evaporate. It wasargued by the Solicitor General that in fact they thoughtthat maybe the place wasn't even occupied and therefore they were doing an -- a senseless or a needless act by --by delaying and knocking and announcing repetitively. Inany event, I think that this case is -- is one where ifthey truly believed it was unoccupied, that there would beno harm and foul on the officer erring on the side ofcaution and waiting.QUESTION: Mr. Roske, going back to yourinevitable discovery point, was that raised by theGovernment in the district court? MR. ROSKE: Not at the district court, not at th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY the Ninth Circuit. QUESTION: May I ask another question? Wetalked about the case as though it involves just searchesfor drugs. But isn't it true that in this case and infact in many cases, the officers will also pick upsubstantial amounts of cash and weapons, which are not aptto be -- neither of which is apt to be flushed down thetoilet, I wouldn't think.MR. ROSKE: In -- in fact, in this case therewere three firearms recovered from Mr. Banks' apartment. One of them was out on the couch in the front room. Twoweapons were back in the south -- I believe -- east bed --west bedroom, excuse me. Southwest bedroom. And yes, andthere was about $, of currency located throughout theapartment.The dimensions of the apartment were notdeveloped below, but basically the place is about by.The -- the layout of the residence is put in adiagram that's part of the appendix. And I just want to point out that in -- in KingEdward I's reign, this is where we get the knock andannounce statute. He lived in unsettled times, and he wasactually out of his kingdom when the word that his fatherhad died came to him. He was on a trip from the Holy th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY Land, and he was in Genoa. And he had to rush back to hiskingdom to find it in disarray. His men were runningamuck. And the knock and announce statute, which hailsfrom the -- this ancient time, was passed, just to preventthe kinds of abuses that we can see happening today. There was a reverend in Boston that that losthis life as a result of the law enforcement erroneouslysearching a residence. Had he been given the knock andannounce and been able to respond to the door, maybe hewould he wouldn't be dead. There's another instance I cited in my briefabout a Fortune executive who had -- in the middle ofthe night, had is home searched erroneously for drugs, andhe was shot several times defending his habitation.These are important considerations that it's not just the guilty that are protected by the knock andannounce rule. It is -- it is everyone that -- thatbenefits, the innocent and the guilty. QUESTION: Well, the guilty perhaps benefit morethan the innocent. (Laughter.) MR. ROSKE: True enough, but that -- but -- butwhen -- when we have a suppression, when we have a casewhere the court acts as it has in the Banks case, thatprovides a lesson for law enforcement that they do heed, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY and it has a deterrent effect. Your opinions do mattergreatly.And I just think that the wise decision herewouldn't be to create a bright line rule, to set in stoneany kind of time limit, that the totality of thecircumstances test decided by the Ninth Circuit is the onethat needs to be used. And I know that the Ninth Circuitstruggled with the fact that the common law knock andannounce provision, you know, dealt with concerns ofdestruction of the door and destruction of the habitationand concerns of privacy, a man's home being his castle. And we do that no honor when in seconds to secondsthat door goes down. And there was no refusal in this case, and therecord is entirely barren of that. And that component was required at common law. And I understand at -- theConstitution was not frozen, you know, at the time of theenactment of the Bill of Rights. It has developed andevolved, but all of the -- all of the exceptions that --that have been applied by the lower courts in this areaare distinguishable from Banks.And I thank the Court if the Court has nofurther questions of me. QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. Roske.Mr. Salmons, you have minutes remaining. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF DAVID B. SALMONSON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERMR. SALMONS: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice. Unless the Court has any further questions, the Governmentsubmits that the judgment below should be reversed.QUESTION: I have a question just with regard toyour opposing counsel's last assertion. Do -- do you knowwhether the rule you're arguing for would have beenapplied in ?MR. SALMONS: Well, Your Honor, what I do knowis that as this Court indicated in its decision in Wilsonwhere it incorporated the common law tradition into theFourth Amendment standard of reasonableness, that thestandard at common law was a flexible one. It didn'trequire knock and announce in all cases, and it took into account a variety of law enforcement concerns and, wewould submit, including the risk that there might bedangers to the officer's safety or that evidence might bedisposed of. So we think that our rule is perfectlyconsistent both with the common law tradition and withthis Court's decision in Wilson that incorporated it.QUESTION: But you don't disagree with the factthat the -- or the -- the claim that the statute doesapply? There was a duty to knock and announce.MR. SALMONS: That's correct, Your Honor. We're th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY not suggesting there was some exception to the knock andannounce rule.CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: Thank you, Mr.Salmons.The case is submitted.(Whereupon, at : a.m., the case in theabove-entitled matter was submitted.) th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY 