 IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -X EDITH JONES, ET AL., ON BEHALF : OF HERSELF AND A CLASS OF OTHERS SIMILARLY SITUATED, Petitioners : : : v. : No. - R.R. DONNELLEY & SONS CO. : - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -X Washington, D.C. Tuesday, February , The above-entitled matter came on for oral argument before the Supreme Court of the United States at : a.m. APPEARANCES: H. CANDACE GORMAN, ESQ., Chicago, Illinois; on behalf of the Petitioners. GREGORY G. GARRE, ESQ., Assistant to the Solicitor General, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on behalf of the United States, as amicus curiae, supporting the Petitioners. CARTER G. PHILLIPS, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf of the Respondent. KEVIN C. NEWSOM, ESQ., Solicitor General, Montgomery, Alabama; on behalf of Alabama, et al., as amici th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. curiae, supporting the Respondent. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. C O N T E N T SORAL ARGUMENT OF H. CANDACE GORMAN, ESQ. On behalf of the Petitioners GREGORY G. GARRE, ESQ. On behalf of the United States, PAGE as amicus curiae, supporting the Petitioners CARTER G. PHILLIPS, ESQ. On behalf of the Respondent KEVIN C. NEWSOM, ESQ. On behalf of Alabama, et al., as amici curiae, supporting the Respondent REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF H. CANDACE GORMAN, ESQ. On behalf of the Petitioners th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. P R O C E E D I N G S (: a.m.) CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: We'll hear argumentnow in No. -, Edith Jones v. R.R. Donnelley & Sons. Ms. Gorman. ORAL ARGUMENT OF H. CANDACE GORMAN ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS MS. GORMAN: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court: Congress answered the call of the judiciary byenacting section , a bright line rule that provides adefault statute of limitations of years for any civilaction arising under an act of Congress after December st, . Section applies to plaintiff's claims because this Court said in Patterson that plaintiff didnot have claims of racial harassment and --andtermination and discharge claims. Plaintiff's claims arise under the CivilRights Act because that is the act that created the causeof action that plaintiff has filed under. In Rivers, this Court held that the act, asamended by the Civil Rights Act, was a new cause ofaction that created new liabilities and a new standard ofconduct. Therefore, under section , under the plain th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. meaning of that statute, the Civil Rights Actapplies. The simple one-sentence statute has beeninterpreted in such a way as to give it no meaning. Theterms, arising under, and the term, civil action, aresimple terms used by this Court repeatedly to describe thestatute's reach and that reach includes all civil actionsarising under an act of Congress after December st, ,whether it has roots in or references preexisting law. QUESTION: Ms. Gorman, one of the anomalies thatif -- if you are complaining about a refusal to hire, adiscriminatory refusal to hire, the limitation would be years, but if you're complaining about a discriminatoryfiring, it would be years. Does that make sense to --to have those two claims both stemming from the original, but one having extended it?MS. GORMAN: Yes. I -- I believe it does, YourHonor, and the reason is that the purpose of section is to cut down on borrowing and State limitations periodsthat have been used for the borrowing purposes, andanything that cuts down on those purposes of borrowing isgoing to be going to the effect of that statute. Now, the fact that there are two statutes oflimitations is not unusual in -- in the discriminationcases that I file. There are often many statutes of th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. limitations that someone has to look at. For example, inthe Age Discrimination Act, there are two statutes oflimitations for willful and not willful. Often claims arefiled under section -- under title VII, as well as undersection , and we have various statutes of limitationsthat we deal with in those claims as well. QUESTION: But one can see some rhyme or reasonto those differences. Here it seems that -- that oneclaim is -- is no more deserving of a longer time than theother. MS. GORMAN: Well, we have to look at the plainmeaning of the statute, Your Honor. And it is a defaultstatute of limitations, so Congress has the option at anytime of creating a -- a statute of limitations going backto if it thinks that this is not the way it wanted itto work out. But it -- the statute is clear that it's forall new causes of action or for all causes of action thatarise under acts of Congress after December st, , andI think it's very clear that plaintiffs' claims did notarise until the Civil Rights Act. Plaintiffs couldnot file a cause of action until that Civil Rights Act. QUESTION: Do you want us to interpret this section (b) as a new cause of action, in other words? MS. GORMAN: The act. The claims -- I'm th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. only addressing the narrow issue -­QUESTION: Yes. MS. GORMAN: -- of the claims that plaintiffcould not file prior to -­QUESTION: Section (b). You -- you want us tointerpret section (b) as a new cause of action? MS. GORMAN: Correct. And I believe thatfollows from the Court's decisions both in Patterson andin Rivers. QUESTION: If -- if you completely untie section(b) from section (a), number one, it doesn't make anysense, and number two, the -- the implied cause of actionthat we have found might disappear because we have toldCongress, when you enact a new cause of action -- or a newstatute, you have to say explicitly if it creates aprivate cause of action. MS. GORMAN: I believe Congress addressed thatin the Civil Rights Act, codifying that this was a -­that there was a private right of action involved. Butthis Court had already -­QUESTION: Where -- does it say that in ? MS. GORMAN: In (c). QUESTION: Well, I -- I'm not sure I read itthat way. MS. GORMAN: The rights protected by this th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. section are protected against impairment by nongovernmentdiscrimination and impairment under color of law. QUESTION: That doesn't sound like an explicitcreation of a cause of action to me. MS. GORMAN: Well, Your Honor, this Court hadalso said in Patterson that did create a privateright of action. QUESTION: Well, that's what -- but that wasunder . You're saying it's a new cause of action, andI'm saying that if it's a new cause of action, thenCongress has to be explicit that there's a private causeof action. MS. GORMAN: I believe the language in section(c) was put in there just to confirm that what the Court said in Patterson, that this was a private right ofaction, was going forward with the new statute.And to the point that this is definitional,which I think was what you were also raising, JusticeKennedy, the fact that Congress adds definitions to createcauses of action was recognized by this Court in Rivers asa way that Congress often creates causes of action. So Ibelieve that that's very consistent with how this -- howCongress enacts causes of action. QUESTION: Your -- your argument really rests onthe proposition that arising under has a -- a uniform th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. meaning, that it doesn't acquire different meanings indifferent contexts, doesn't it? MS. GORMAN: I believe it rests on theproposition that the most common way of meaning -- usingarising under is the way Justice Holmes described it andthat's that a suit arises under the law that creates thecause of action. And that's what we're saying here, thatthis suit relies on the law. That's what createdplaintiff's cause of action. QUESTION: Well, we've -- we've also held that-- that arising under embraces not just a -- a Federalcause of action but even State causes of action thatrequire determination of a Federal question for which theFederal question is -- is sort of essential. Now, howcould you possibly apply that meaning to this statute? Itwould mean that the Federal Government would beestablishing statutes of limitation for State causes ofaction. MS. GORMAN: I don't believe that's how thestatute was -- was drafted, Your Honor. The EleventhAmendment does not place any limitation on Congress'ability to establish a Federal statute of limitations fora Federal claim, and I believe section is clearlydirected to Federal causes of action, Federal civilactions, not to State civil actions. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. QUESTION: Not if you use arising under the waywe use it in other contexts where -- where it -- a claimcan -- can be thought to arise under, for purposes of -­of Federal court jurisdiction, even though the cause ofaction is -- is a State cause of action. MS. GORMAN: Your Honor, I believe arising underin this sense should be used in the way that it's mostused by this Court and in the way that it's used in title, which is where this statute was -- is codified. AsJustice Frankfurter said, you -- you take the soil alongwith it, that goes along with the other statutes. So thefact that this Court has repeatedly and consistently saidin title that a cause of action arises under the lawthat creates the cause of action or if it depends -­depends on that cause of action. I believe that's the -­the way arising under should be used in this case as well. QUESTION: All right. So you're picking one ofvarious -- various meanings, but that's all that the otherside is doing too. MS. GORMAN: But I believe this is the moreconsistent approach with how this Court has looked atarising under in the -- in the jurisdictional contextbecause that is where this Court -- that is where Congresshas placed this definition in the statute. QUESTION: I don't think so. I think in cases th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. such as Smith v. Kansas City Title & Trust Company, we've-- we've said that arising under jurisdiction includeswhere the cause of action is based on State law, butrelief necessarily depends on resolution of a substantialquestion of Federal law. We say that Federal courts cantake jurisdiction in that situation. And as I say, if you apply that meaning here, it-- it means that you're -- you're setting a Federalstatute of limitations for State causes of action unlessyou want to disown Smith v. Kansas City and that line ofcases. MS. GORMAN: Your Honor, what I'm suggesting isthat the -- the reasoning of this Court has beenconsistently that under title , arising under has beenused as Justice Holmes has suggested it, and that's whatI'm suggesting is the -- is the bright line rule that thisCourt should follow in this case. QUESTION: I'm suggesting that's wrong. MS. GORMAN: I understand, Your Honor. QUESTION: What do you do with the hypotheticalthat was raised in -- in the briefs on the other side thatsuppose Congress shrinks the people who are exempt fromtitle VII, say, and makes it or more employees insteadof or more employees? Then what do you do with thepeople who are newly included? Do they get a longer th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. statute than the ones who were there before? MS. GORMAN: Yes, Your Honor, I believe they do.And again, I want to point out that this is a defaultstatute of limitations, so Congress would always have theability to affix a statute of limitations. QUESTION: But -- but in -- in determining whatCongress meant, is it -- wouldn't it be relevant that thatseems something no legislature would want to have happen,that people who are newly covered by the same prescriptionget more time to sue than people who have always beencovered? MS. GORMAN: Your Honor, first that examplecomes from title VII which does have its own -­QUESTION: I know. I know. So we had to pickone that comes under or . MS. GORMAN: I still think we have to give theplain meaning of the -- of the statute its effect, andCongress -- we have to understand that Congress set thisas a default and if Congress does not want to have thisanomaly where people who are between and employeesin a -- in an employment relationship where it's under employees and now a cause of action has been created forthem -- if Congress does not want to have that situation,then Congress is going to have to draft a statute oflimitations which that -- with that law, which Congress th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. has shown under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act that it is more than willing and able to do. When Congress adopted -- when Congress amended the Telecommunications Act of to add the Sarbanes-Oxley amendment, it put in the statute of limitations thatit knew it wanted to have so it would be consistent withother statute of limitations within that statute. And itis clear from the reading of that statute, that ifCongress -- that Congress thought if they had not put inthat amendment, that the -year statute of -- oflimitations would apply even though that was an amendmentto a preexisting statute. QUESTION: Another problem that was raised inthe brief on the other side was what would you do with acircuit that had a law -- that it had interpreted the lawas allowing no claim and there's a circuit where othercircuits have -- have allowed a claim in the -- and wehaven't spoken. In the circuit that said there was noclaim and then -- so that people are newly covered -­suppose Congress eliminates that circuit split and itmakes it clear that everybody is covered. Then whathappens in the circuit where people were not covered untilCongress clarified the law? Do they get the years? MS. GORMAN: I believe in most cases I thinkeveryone will get years, and the reason I say that is th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. because section does not address the circuit -­circuit split. It addresses the statute that's enacted byCongress. So if Congress enacts the statute setting fortha cause of action that was not codified before, then I believe that that -year statute of limitations would apply. QUESTION: Well, but that -- that's the issue, whether it was codified before. Some circuits say it wasalready there. Other circuits say it wasn't there. Forthe latter circuits, this would be a new creation of acause of action. For the former, it would not. Now, Iagree there's only one right answer; either -- either itexisted under the old law or it didn't exist under the oldlaw. But frankly, I don't want to have to sit hereand resolve -- resolve questions of whether somethingexisted under an old law for no purpose except to decidewhether -- whether this statute of limitations provisioncuts in or not. I mean, it's a weird thing to have usdoing, deciding whether a statute was really merelyreaffirming an old law or whether it was enacting a newcause of action. I -­MS. GORMAN: I -- I think one thing that wewould always be able to do is to look at these statutes.Since we're looking at this in the abstract, it's hard to th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. say. But -- but taking the -- the statute, forexample, where Congress defines it in the purpose asexpanding the rights, then I think it's clear that this issomething new that did not exist before. So I think -­QUESTION: But in -- in -­MS. GORMAN: I'm sorry. QUESTION: I'm sorry. I didn't mean to cut youoff. I was -- in the case of the circuit split, I thought the statute that broke -- that -- that resolved the circuit split and confirmed that there was a cause ofaction would -- would qualify on your theory of arisingunder because your -- your cause of action would, in part,be based upon the amending statute. Am I wrong? MS. GORMAN: No. That's correct, Your Honor. QUESTION: Okay. MS. GORMAN: That is what I'm suggesting. QUESTION: Well -- well, it has to -­QUESTION: But what about the circuit thatalready recognized the cause of action? May I repeat myquestion? Say that -- prior to the statutory amendment,the Seventh Circuit had already recognized the cause ofaction that the amendment confirmed. Now, would it be anew cause of action in the Seventh Circuit? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. MS. GORMAN: I don't think it would be a newcause of action but it would now be arising under an actof Congress that was enacted after , and I think -­QUESTION: But the Seventh Circuit thought itarose under an act of Congress even before the amendment. MS. GORMAN: I understand, Your Honor, but Ithink if you look at the purpose of the statute and if weuse Patterson as an example, in Patterson the Court saidthere was no claim under for post-contract claims.And then when Congress enacted the act, if -- if --I'm sorry. Patterson had not been decided by this Court,but we had circuits in a disarray on this issue and thenCongress enacted the act and said in there we areexpanding -­QUESTION: Oh, I see. MS. GORMAN: -- and defining. Then I believethat the -year statute would apply. And if I may, Your Honor, I'd like to reservethe remainder of my time. QUESTION: Very well, Ms. Gorman. MS. GORMAN: Thank you. QUESTION: Mr. Garre, we'll hear from you. ORAL ARGUMENT OF GREGORY G. GARRE ON BEHALF OF THE UNITED STATES, AS AMICUS CURIAE, SUPPORTING THE PETITIONERS th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. MR. GARRE: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice, andmay it please the Court: Petitioners' claims for racial discrimination inthe terms and condition of employment are subject to theuniform statute of limitations set forth in U.S.C. because those claims were created by and therefore ariseunder the Civil Rights Act of , an act of Congressenacted after December -­QUESTION: Mr. Garre, as has already beenpointed out, the interpretation does give rise to someanomalies and interpreting it the other way might as well.What could Congress have provided in section (a) to avoid some of these questions? MR. GARRE: Well -­QUESTION: How could it have been written -­MR. GARRE: Justice --QUESTION: -- so we wouldn't be in this mess? MR. GARRE: Justice O'Connor, I think some of the -- the issues that have been identified to the Courtare a direct product of the compromise that Congressstruck in . Originally the act, as proposed by theFederal Courts Study Committee, would have applied auniform statute of limitations to all existing causes ofaction. And some Members of Congress and groups believedthat that would create retroactivity concerns. So the -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. the compromise that was adopted was that the uniformstatute of limitations would apply on a going-forwardbasis with respect to causes of actions that were createdby acts of Congress enacted after December . This case involves precisely such a cause ofaction. Petitioners' claims we know from the Pattersoncase were not actionable under statute prior to the Civil Rights Act. The only reason petitioners are inCourt today and have viable claims is because of the Civil Rights Act. Therefore, we think that respondent'sposition which results in the conclusion that petitioners'claims arise under the -- the same statute at issue inPatterson, the statute that we know does not create thoseclaims, is an absurd conclusion that we think counselsagainst their position. QUESTION: What if the statute did create thoseclaims? I mean, I'm getting back to the circuit splitquestion. MR. GARRE: We --QUESTION: It seems to me you don't give thesame answer that -- that the petitioner does. MR. GARRE: Justice Scalia, we think that thecircuit split problem would be resolved for purposes ofsection the same way it would be resolved forretroactivity purposes. Anytime Congress creates a new th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. cause of actions, there -- there are going to be questionsthat arise from the creation of that cause of action. The Court considered the same question in HughesAircraft v. United States ex rel. Schumer where Congressamended the False Claims Act to eliminate a jurisdictionaldefense, and this Court said, on pages and of itsopinion, created a new cause of action. And therefore,the Court held that cause of action cannot beretroactively applied. QUESTION: So you're saying we -- we will haveto resolve these -- these circuit splits for no purposewhatever except to decide whether the statute oflimitations applies. Right? We'll have to -­MR. GARRE: No, Justice Scalia. In the sensethat the same issue would -- would arise for retroactivitypurpose, whether or not Congress has created a new causeof action which would apply retroactivity -- retroactivelyor not. And even if the retroactivity question didn'tarise, that's a product of the statute that Congress hasdrawn. Another -- another problem with respondent'sconstruction -­QUESTION: As you interpret it. MR. GARRE: As we interpret it, and we thinkthat that is the plain meaning of Congress' use of both th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. the -- the all-inclusive term, the traditionally inclusiveterm, arising under, as well as Congress' reference to anact of Congress. QUESTION: What -- what is your position as towhether the statute of limitations applies to State causesof action? MR. GARRE: We don't think it applies to Statecauses of action at all. QUESTION: Then you're not using the all-inclusive term, arising under. MR. GARRE: Well, that's not a product thatCongress has used of arising under. It's a question ofwhether Congress intended to supply a Federal statute oflimitations for State claims. QUESTION: Well, and -- and you say they didn'tbecause -- so your -- since it's absurd to think they didthat, you're -- you're giving arising under a narrowerinterpretation than -- than we give it for -­MR. GARRE: Well -­QUESTION: -- for purposes of -- of Federaljurisdiction. MR. GARRE: In the first place, we think thatplaintiffs' claims arise under the Civil Rights Actunder any definition of arising under, dictionarydefinition, the statutory definition, and U.S.C. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. -­QUESTION: But -- but that contradicts yourother position that -- that we're going to have to resolvethis question in order to determine the circuit splitsbecause if you believe that, your -- your answer would bethe same as -- as the petitioners. You don't have toresolve those circuit splits so long as there's a laterstatute. It arises under the State -- under the later statute. Whether it arises under both, who cares? MR. GARRE: No. QUESTION: That's not your position. MR. GARRE: The question would be the same question that this Court considered in the Rivers casewhich was whether or not Congress created new causes ofaction in the Civil Rights Act, and the Courtanalyzed that question by looking to Congress' intentenacting that act. Some parties argued that Congress hadsimply clarified and continued into effect old rights.Other parties argued that Congress had created new rights,and this Court agreed with that interpretation. And wethink that that interpretation requires the conclusion inthis case that petitioners' claims are governed by thestatute of limitations in section . If I could refer to another problem withrespondent's construction and that is it -- it essentially th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. renders inoperative the default rule established byCongress in section in the vast majority of cases,and that's because Congress rarely creates the kind ofwholly new and self-contained cause of action that has noreference to or roots in Federal law. And that's the onlytime that the default rule, which Congress thought was asignificant improvement to the prior practice of State -­borrowing State statute of limitations would apply under-- under respondent's -- under respondent's interpretation. QUESTION: Well, it did so in the Truth in Lending Act and -- and the Clean Air Act and the Clean Water Act. Those are all new enactments. MR. GARRE: But -- but, Justice Kennedy,Congress often chooses to -- to build upon existingFederal law in creating causes of action. QUESTION: Well, in this case, what about theproblem with the implied cause of action? I don't readsection (c) as explicitly granting a -- a private cause ofaction. MR. GARRE: We think -- from our understandingof section (c), it was intended to clarify that section does create a private right of action, which -- whichthis Court had held in Runyan and reaffirmed in Patterson. But we don't think it's a problem if the Court th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. concludes that petitioners' claims depend on bothsubsection (a) of and subsection (b) of becausepetitioners' claims only exist today because of the act, in that respect, arise under that act, under thedictionary definition of arising under and under thesettled definition of arising under that Congress uses intitle of the United States Code. Petitioner seems to read the statute's referenceto an act of Congress to refer only to an act of Congressthat creates the kind of wholly new self-contained causeof action I mentioned. QUESTION: You mean respondent, yes. MR. GARRE: Respondent. You're right, Mr. ChiefJustice. But we think, as -- as Judge Alito concluded inhis dissenting opinion in the Zubi case, that an act ofCongress is just as naturally read and has to be read toinclude an act of Congress that creates a cause of actionby amending an existing cause of action. And all of respondent's objections about thepracticality of our position, which we think is -- is theplain-meaning position of what Congress -- the statutethat Congress wrote, have to be weighed against theintractable problems that this Court and the FederalCourts Study Committee identified with respect to the past th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. practice of borrowing State statutes of limitations. Our inquiry focuses the analysis exclusively onCongress' actions and Federal law, and we think thatthat's where Congress wanted the courts to focus. Theprior practice focused the inquiry on State law. Itrequired Federal courts to canvas State law, to identifyan analogous State cause of action, and then to try toidentify the statute of limitations that would apply inthe State to that cause of action, and then to make aseparate determination whether that State statute oflimitations could appropriately be applied to Federal law.And that had created great uncertainty and great disparityin the application of Federal law. Indeed, under the oldpractice, a single Federal claim could be subjected to different State statutes of limitations. And that was the problem that Congress wasaddressing at the -- the recommendation of the FederalCourts Study Committee in enacting section . And itdecided, as a result of the compromise, to apply it onlyon a going-forward basis with respect to new claims thatwere created by Congress after . Petitioners' claims only exist today as a resultof Congress' action in the act, and we think they'reclearly governed by the default statute of limitationsestablished by section . th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. As petitioners' counsel made clear, section is only a default rule. Congress can always specify adifferent rule and it has done so several times since. It did so in the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of -- of ,and that's significant because that act, Sarbanes-Oxley,amending an existing cause of action under the Securitiesand Exchange Act -- so if -- if Congress had in mind theinterpretation of section that respondent proposes,it's certainly odd that Congress felt obliged to amend to put in the special statute of limitations forsecurities laws claims. QUESTION: What was the period prescribed in theSarbanes-Oxley statute? MR. GARRE: It's years after the discovery offacts and years after the violation, which is differentthan the -year rule established by Congress in section(a). We think the court of appeals in this case erredin subjecting petitioners' section claims, which onlyexist because of the Civil Rights Act, to the oldborrowing practice that Congress sought to put an end toin , and we think that this Court should hold thatthose claims are governed by the uniform statute oflimitations established by section . QUESTION: Will there be some retroactivity th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. problems if some States have -year statute of limitationsand this reduces that period? MR. GARRE: No. As -- as Judge Alito explainedin his -- may I answer that question? QUESTION: Yes. MR. GARRE: As Judge Alito explained in the Zubidissent, there's no retroactivity problems because theonly expectation that a plaintiff could have afterCongress created the new causes of action in is ifthose causes of actions would be subject to the defaultstatute of limitations specified. QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. Garre. MR. GARRE: Thank you. QUESTION: We'll hear now from Mr. Phillips. ORAL ARGUMENT OF CARTER G. PHILLIPS ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT MR. PHILLIPS: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice, andmay it please the Court: It seems to me that there are two propositionsthat arise out of the conversation of the past minutes. First of all, there is no single uniform meaningof the -- of the expression, arising under. It is not aterm of art. It is a term of chaos. It is a -- it is aphrase that is used repeatedly in different contexts,routinely used with a very pragmatic -- in a very th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. pragmatic fashion and does not answer the question whetheror not Congress, when it adopted , or Congress, whenit amended section , really envisioned this kind ofexpansive interpretation that would allow an argument tobe made that State laws are suddenly subject to statutesof limitations. As Justice Scalia asked, when you makeother kinds of adjustments in these schemes, are you goingto have to resolve every -- every one of these issues? I mean, the question with respect to the splitin the circuits. There is currently pending a proposedchange to the Air Carriers Access Act that specificallyresolves the conflict in the circuits between the EleventhCircuit which says there is no cause of action and othercircuits that says there is a cause of action. These aren't hypotheticals. These are realissues and if this Court is not careful in how it tries toconfine the interpretation of section , it's going tobe interpreting the statute for the better part of thenext years, which may be good news for me as apractitioner before the Court. But I'm quite certain thatit's not good news either for my clients, for the lowercourts that are going to have to adjudicate these problemsor for -­QUESTION: The solution to the last problem youraised offered by the petitioner is simply you use the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. newer statute, and you don't have to look into thequestion of -- of which side of the circuit conflict wascorrect. If the right is created by the new statute, itdidn't matter whether it -- if it's affirmed by the new statute, you're suing under the new statute, it doesn't matter whether it existed before or not. Why isn't that an adequate solution? MR. PHILLIPS: Well, it might be an adequate solution, Justice Scalia, except that it's not self-evident from the language, arising under. The question iswhat -- what is the use of arising under that you're goingto try to apply in a more or less uniform fashion. QUESTION: But I think isn't her answer to the-- to the fact that it isn't self-evident from thelanguage alone an answer she gave to a separate question,and that is that it's the policy of Congress to apply the-- the -year rule when it can so that if in doubt -- ifthe language allows but doesn't compel, then the answerwould be apply the new statute because that is going toget to the congressional objective of getting the -yearstatute as broad -­MR. PHILLIPS: And there -- and I don't thinkthere's support for that objective in --in thisparticular statute because if Congress really meant -­QUESTION: Well, isn't the -- isn't the support th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. that they started out by intending to -- to apply the ­year period, I mean, across the board and they -- theyonly fell back out of fear of -- of violating relianceinterests which would say the -- the objective is still toget the broadest possible application? MR. PHILLIPS: Well, no. It's a question of -­I mean, they -- they obviously made a -- a compromise, butthe question is why isn't it as reasonable a compromise tosay, look, we're going to deal with this in the trulyclassic sense of the word prospective. Every new self-contained statute that goes into effect is now subject tothis rule. And -- and literally, as Justice Kennedysaid -­QUESTION: They could -­MR. PHILLIPS: -- they do that every day. QUESTION: -- they could have said that, but the-- the counter-argument to -- to what you've just said is-- and -- and maybe this is -- I hope you'll comment onthis, that on your reading, the -year statute is -- israrely going to be applied simply because there -- therearen't very many sort of absolutely brand-new,freestanding, self-contained causes of action. Most ofthem are -- are subjects of tinkering from time to time. MR. PHILLIPS: Well, Justice Souter, the -- thereality is that this is far more common than you think. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. The anti-terrorism statute has specific standalone causesof action. The Muhammad Ali Reform -- Boxing Reform Acthas a standalone cause of action. I mean, there are, infact a host of statutes in which Congress does preciselywhat the other side claims it rarely does. I mean, this-- if -- if the Court would like us to provide a list, we'd be happy to do it. QUESTION: Yes, but the argument is the other way. I mean, it's that very often major pieces oflegislation are enacted in the form of what looks like anamendment of a current statute. I think of the Celler-Kefauver Act. I mean, on your theory, all of merger lawwould really be viewed as not a new statute when it wastotally new. There were no merger cases to speak of priorto Celler-Kefauver. And then they come in and section applies to assets and all of a sudden you have merger law.Well, on your view that would be just viewed as -- as ifit were some kind of trivial amendment when it createdhalf of anti-trust law. I mean, you see, that's the kindof problem I think -­MR. PHILLIPS: Well, no, I understand that, butthe problem you still have, Justice Breyer, is that you'vegot to figure out how do you try to reconcile -­QUESTION: Well, we reconcile it by saying ifit's a new -- you look at the act of Congress. An act of th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. Congress is called Public Law or whatever it is, andif prior to that act of Congress, you didn't have the cause of action, and if after you did, well, that's what they mean. It arises under a new act of Congress. That seems pretty simple. MR. PHILLIPS: That's -- that's pretty simple,Justice Breyer, but it doesn't answer Justice Kennedy'squestion which is if you look at this particular act ofCongress, which is codified in subsection (b), it doesn'tgive you any basis for a right of action. Theinfrastructure -­QUESTION: It doesn't give you any -- oh, now,now, all right -­MR. PHILLIPS: That definitional provisiondoesn't remotely -­QUESTION: -- that -- that -- if you're askingme the question, I'd answer that question by saying, ofcourse, they intended a private right of action to apply.I mean, now let's go into the history of it and seewhether they did or not. MR. PHILLIPS: But, Justice Breyer, that's -­QUESTION: And I think -- I think that by the -­but that's a different issue. But in my way of thinking, that doesn't raise aserious question because I don't believe that they didn't th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. intend to raise -- to have this as a private right ofaction. MR. PHILLIPS: But I still -- but that stilldoesn't answer what -- what strikes me as the fundamentalquestion which is when Congress approached section ,did it think that it was, in fact, creating a whole newinfrastructure cause of action or was it basically simplyengrafting it back onto what section has been since. QUESTION: It was engrafting it on and beforethey passed the act of Congress, you did not have thiskind of cause of action, and after they wrote the new act,you did have it. Therefore -­MR. PHILLIPS: But -- but you -- but, JusticeBreyer, you only have this cause of action because four -­three of the four elements arise and existed long before, and those -- and that -- and it clearly has to ariseunder that portion of it as well. So the question is, ifit arises under both, what's the right resolution of the question? And the point that, it seems to me, that the petitioner and the United States have never responded tois why is it you would adopt a rule that carries with itas much complication and complexity as the rule that theypropose when you don't have to come out that -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. QUESTION: I think their answer is, as Iunderstand it, that is the approach that gives maximumeffect to the new statutes of limitation that -- thatCongress has enacted. Now, what -- what evidence is therethat Congress wanted it to have maximum effect? MR. PHILLIPS: There is no evidence thatCongress wanted it to have maximum effect. QUESTION: Well, except the fact they enactedthe statute. MR. PHILLIPS: The statute applies on a regularbasis to almost everyday acts that Congress adopts inwhich they provide a cause of action and do not provide astatute of limitations. And that spares this Court andevery other court the burden of having to borrow fromState law, trying to figure out what analogous State lawclaims would be used as the basis for a statute of limitations. QUESTION: One of the problems that troubles me about borrowing State law -- I've had a lot of experiencein these cases -- that if you look at this statute underState law, I think the old cause of action that Pattersonrecognized would be a contract cause of action. Andarguably, the one before us today is a tort action. Soyou'd probably have to follow the State tort law statuteof limitations for half the case and the contract statute th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. of limitations for the other half of the case, after youfigure out which State law applies. So you have thisproblem, even if you're referring back to State law, ofmaybe coming out with two different results. MR. PHILLIPS: Except that I think, for the mostpart, the courts have pretty well resolved what they were going to do with respect to section . I would have thought the problem -­QUESTION: Well, the section as construedin Patterson is clearly a contract claim. MR. PHILLIPS: Right. QUESTION: But as -- but this cause of action Idon't think is clearly a contract claim. MR. PHILLIPS: Well, it's difficult to knowwhether Congress meant to change that. I -- I don'tdisagree with that. But I -- but it still seems to me the morefundamental problem in trying to sort out what Congressdid with respect to section is that it never intendedto make this into a brand new infrastructure. It took theexisting four elements. It didn't change a single word insection when it implemented this cause of action. Sothe notion that this is a cause of action that arises onlyunder the act is clearly -- under the act isclearly -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. QUESTION: How much -- how much trouble are wegoing to have in the future if -- if we adopted your -­your theory? How -- you know, how am I to decide in thefuture whether a new cause of action arises all by itselfor whether it -- it attaches to a greater or lesser degreeto a preexisting statute? What's -- is it an easy test? MR. PHILLIPS: I -- I think every court that hasadopted that test -- certainly the Seventh Circuit in thiscase and other courts of appeals have recognized that it is an infinitely simpler test than trying to figure out what arising under will mean in all of its various permutations and new statutes. All you have to look at isto see whether or not the cause -- the elements -- all theelements of the cause of action are newly created. Thatmay be embodied in a -- in an amendment to an existingstatute. It may be on a stand alone basis. But I -- Isubmit to you that is a significantly simpler course tofollow. And, indeed, I don't -­QUESTION: But one thing that isn't simplerabout it, Mr. Phillips, is the problem that Congresssought to cure with , that is, you can have amazingdiversity across the country if you're borrowing States'limits. For the same claim, it could be years in oneState, years in another, in another. Congress surely th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. wanted to cut out that disparity so that similarlysituated people would have the same right to sue. MR. PHILLIPS: On a prospective basis, there'sno question about that, that the Congress had passed theAnti-terrorism Act that created a new cause of action, didnot want the kind of inherent inequalities that ariseunder borrowing to go forward. QUESTION: And that's suggesting that -­MR. PHILLIPS: It says nothing about what theCongress did retroactively. QUESTION: -- that the old way is inherentlycomplex because you have to figure out which would be theclosest State limitation. And Congress just wanted to getaway from that complexity. I don't know that that's -­that that what was introduced is -- is more complex. Itseems to me less so. MR. PHILLIPS: Well, I -- Justice Ginsburg, yourown hypotheticals suppose exactly how many complexitiesare going to arise, and I -- I can assure you that as -­as much imagination as we've put into this, plaintiffs'counsels and defense counsel going forward will try evenharder to end up fighting these issues in terms of the -­in terms of how complex this is. All you have to do is look at the secondcertified class in this case. The district judge in this th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. case thought this was an easy statute to interpret andapplied it to classes and . When he got to class ,what did he say? He said, with respect to those claimswith regard to part-time employment, the parties are goingto have to sort that out themselves. He made no attemptto sort -- to resolve that issue because it is a completely imponderable question under their interpretation of section . QUESTION: All right. Look -- look at your owninterpretation. Answer this one if you can. I mean, Idon't know. I'm just thinking about it. But Congresspasses a new statute. It's called New, New, New. (Laughter.) QUESTION: And it's in a special code, title ,just to be new. And it says this -- and this is total newand here is what it is. We have a Federal cause of actionand a claim for double damages for anyone who has beeninjured by a robbery committed with a gun. And then itsays, robbery shall be defined as it is defined in title, section . And now, a gun -- that's new here, butwe define that -- you see what I'm doing? MR. PHILLIPS: Of course. QUESTION: I'm just reproducing. Now, how are you going to take that? Is thatnew, new, new? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. MR. PHILLIPS: Of course, that's a new, new, newcause of action. QUESTION: All right. Of course, it is. MR. PHILLIPS: But -­QUESTION: Well, but it refers to the old one,you see. MR. PHILLIPS: But, of course, that doesn'tchange -­what?QUESTION: We get three of the elements from -­ MR. PHILLIPS: But that doesn't change anything,Justice Breyer. Of course, you can refer back to it. Thequestion is are all of the elements of the cause of actionindependently provided for in the New, New, New statute,and the answer is yes. QUESTION: But you can do it by a crossreference. In other words, in your view, if it's done to-- through a cross reference, they are still new, new,new, but it's done by a physical placement, it's old, old,old. MR. PHILLIPS: No, I don't think it's thatsimple, Justice Breyer. If it's done where Congress meansto create a new infrastructure and a new cause of action,it's new, new, new. When Congress does nothing more thanengraft and doesn't even remotely modify the existing th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. infrastructure, it doesn't even so much as change thewords of a statute that's been here from , to suggestthat this is a -- a suit that arises solely under -- undera amendment seems to me wrong. The -- the other point I think it's important tomake in this connection -- and -- and it's the rule ofconstruction that seems to get lost sight of -- is -- and-- and it's the one this Court adopted in Wilson v. Garcia-- is that there is no reason to assume that Congresswould mean for the -- to have two causes -- two statutesof limitation apply to the same cause of action when itwas interpreting section . And here we have a situation where you will havetwo -- two statutes of limitation applying to the samewords in the same subsection of a statute. And we raisedthe issue in our -- in our brief for the respondentsaying, find us a statute where Congress has ever allowedthat kind of morass to exist, and -- and the reply briefis utterly silent on that. And for good cause, becausethere is no reason to assume that Congress would haveadopted that interpretation. And therefore, if you followthe rule of construction from Wilson v. Garcia and if youaccept what I think you cannot help but except, which isthat arising under is not an unambiguous line -­QUESTION: Do you think there may be an equal th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. protection problem there? MR. PHILLIPS: Well -­QUESTION: When a person says, you know, I -- Ican sue within years. Somebody else can only sue within because I am -- I am an employee above and -- and Ionly got my cause of action later. And -- and the one reason for the difference is my statute was enacted laterthan yours. MR. PHILLIPS: Is it irrational? Yes. Is itunconstitutional? Probably not under the standards thatloosely govern these kinds of issues unless somebody canattach it to some kind of -­QUESTION: Mr. Phillips, would this be adifferent case if instead of enacting the statute it didin , they -- they simply had an amendment that said inaddition to the coverage of the preexisting , we willadd the additional brand new cause of action which willallow recovery for what happens after you get on the job? MR. PHILLIPS: I think if there were a (d)that was -- that was separately contained and thatexpressed a clear indication from Congress that it reallymeant to create a new cause of action, that it would makesense under those circumstances for to apply to thatparticular situation. But I think what we're talking about here is th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. simply trying to ascertain Congress' intent, and I thinkwhether you look at it under section 's lens or if youlook at it under section 's lens, you end up atexactly the same point. QUESTION: But -- but your answer seems to me tosuggest that if the statute has the same substantiveeffect, you get one result in one form of -- type ofdrafting and a different result with a different type ofdrafting. MR. PHILLIPS: That's -- to be sure. And itgoes back, I suppose, to the argument that was made by theother side which is that there's a default rule andCongress can always change it. The core of this isCongress can always make its intent more explicit in termsof how it deals with the problem. The question is, do youwant to create a regime in which this Court is going tohave to be resolving questions involving the meaning ofsection for the foreseeable future? Or doesn't it make sense to recognize that thereis, in fact, a -- a complete set of causes of action towhich will routinely apply and that it will be spared-- the courts will be spared and the litigants will bespared the burden of having to sort out these kinds ofissues on a going-forward basis and recognize that we'renot going to pick up everything in the interim? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. But as Congress wants to go forward and createnew causes of action, the opportunity will arise, and itcan do so. But if it chooses to engraft it on an existinginfrastructure, then it seems to me under thosecircumstances, what the Court should do is say these causeof action arises at this point in time. It doesn't arisebecause of the new statute. It's a much simpler, muchcleaner way of dealing with the issue. And -- and that's the one point I did want tomake. I don't -- I have not heard the other side remotelycomplain that our approach has any of the kinds of complications. I'm not saying it's without issues, but it's nowhere near the complications -­QUESTION: No, but it has the -- it has the complications that -- that preexisted in trying to figureout which State law applies and so forth and so on. Itsays that regime still survives in a lot of areas that itwould not survive if you take their side. MR. PHILLIPS: But -- but Congress clearlyrecognized that it was not prepared to eliminate thatregime because -- because it would --QUESTION: It seems to me that -­MR. PHILLIPS: -- would have created all kindsof problems on a retroactive basis. It didn't want to -­it didn't want to unsettle expectations. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. QUESTION: But it seems to me that to the extentyou are changing that regime, you're -- you're bringingmore certainty to the law because that is an inherentlyconfusing regime. MR. PHILLIPS: Well you bring one form of -- ofcomplication and one form of -- of clarity to it. But atleast the -- it's the clarity you know rather than theclarity you don't know -- or the confusion that you don'tknow at this point. Courts have been dealing with thequestion of how to borrow for a long time. The questionof how you're going to deal with section and whatconflicts in the circuits you're going to have to resolveand what happens when Congress makes minor modifications-- Congress makes lots of minor modifications in every -­QUESTION: Why --why wouldn't all theseproblems exist with your system just as much if all thathas to happen to make it valid under your system is wetake these same words, making appropriate modification,stick them in title and call it New, New, New? I mean,at that point we're going to have the same problem withthe versus the , wouldn't we? I mean -­MR. PHILLIPS: No, I don't -- I don't think so,Justice Breyer, because -­QUESTION: Why not? Because it would only applyto the , you see -- or the . It wouldn't apply to the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. . MR. PHILLIPS: It will -- whatever the New, New,New statute is, that will be subject to the -- to thestatute of -- the -year statute of limitations. QUESTION: That's right. MR. PHILLIPS: There's no retroactivity issueyou need to worry about in that -­QUESTION: No, but since it's the same language,you see we discover that small industry would be subjectto the -year statute, but the larger firm would besubject to the old statute, just exactly what you'recomplaining about under their interpretation. MR. PHILLIPS: But -- but if --QUESTION: Am I wrong about that? MR. PHILLIPS: I think you are wrong about that.I think all -- if Congress has created a new statute, it-- it has told you that this is one that's subject to -­to the -year statute of limitations period on a going-forward basis, and I think it's eliminated any of theconfusion. And certainly Congress knows -- would know howto do that if the Court were very clear in saying whatwe're going to apply to is to new causes of actionthat are specifically stated with an entire infrastructurecreated to provide for them. I don't think they have to th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. do it in a new title or whatever, but they clearly haveto do it by doing more than simply changing the definitionof a single set of terms in a statute that is otherwiseleft utterly unchanged under these circumstances. If there are no other questions, Your Honors,I'd urge you to affirm. QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. Phillips. Mr. Newsom, we'll hear from you. ORAL ARGUMENT OF KEVIN C. NEWSOM ON BEHALF OF THE FOR ALABAMA, ET AL., AS AMICI CURIAE, SUPPORTING THE RESPONDENT MR. NEWSOM: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court: As perhaps the most frequent litigants in suitsalleging violations of Federal law, the States and theirofficers have an overriding interest in this case inensuring that section is construed to establish aclear and easily discernible rule. That in my mind leaves two options. There areeffectively two clear options on the table. One is toapply section to all section claims and theother is to -- is to continue the practice of applyingState borrowed statutes of limitations to all of thoseclaims. Both of those rules create the same level of th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. certainty, but one of those rules, namely the -- the rulethat would apply section to all section claims,is plainly inconsistent with Congress' intent and indeedwith the language of section itself in that it wouldapply to claims that on any understanding arose underpreexisting law. Accordingly, the State submits that therespondent's position here is the best among the availablealternatives. QUESTION: But, Mr. Newsom, the reason thatCongress grandfathered the claims that already existed, asMr. Phillips said, was because of expectations that I'moff the hook after years, say. That -- that doesn'texist when a right is created, a right to relief, that didn't exist before. MR. NEWSOM: Well, I think the -- the expectations that Congress sought to protect in -- insection were expectations with respect to certaincategories of claims. In enacting section Congressrecognized that there were certain categories of claimsthat had developed established limitations rules. Forinstance, under this Court's then-recent decisions inWilson v. Garcia and Goodman v. Lukens Steel, section claims as a -- as a category and section claims as acategory were both subject to single borrowed Statestatutes of limitations. So I think the expectation that th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. Congress sought to protect was the expectation of alitigant that I have a claim and it will be subjectto the following statute of limitations. So I think the -- that -- I mean, it sounds tome that there is agreement this morning that -- that theappropriate test to apply is the test whether or notCongress has created a new cause of action. I think theclearest evidence that Congress has done that, thatCongress has created a new cause of action, is whereCongress creates and enacts an entirely new, separatestatutory section. And again, contrary to petitioners'suggestions -- and Justice Kennedy is quite right -- thereare numerous times that Congress has, since December of, created an entirely new and freestanding causes ofaction to which section would certainly apply. Now, Congress' choice in the Civil RightsAct not to create a new statutory section and instead to-- to work within the four corners of section and to-- to fine tune the existing cause of action that alreadyexisted in section is a strong indication -­QUESTION: How can you say it's fine tuning anexisting cause of action if the plaintiff couldn't haverecovered before the amendment? MR. NEWSOM: Well, I think the -- the keyconsideration here is that Congress had a choice in the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. act how it would respond to this Court's decision inPatterson. It was acting against a very specificbackdrop. QUESTION: Would you agree with Mr. Phillips ifthey'd written a different statute that came out withexactly the same result, but they just said -- it wouldnot -- not redefine words but simply said, in addition towhat you can already do you, you may also recover for whathappens on the job? MR. NEWSOM: I agree with Mr. Phillips, andhaving -- having just said that the strongest indicationof Congress' intent to create a new cause of action wouldbe its creation of an entirely new statutory scheme, I doagree that as -- as Congress moves away from thatparadigm, that it may, for instance, in a freestandingsection (d), if it enacts all of the elements of a new-- of a new claim, that yes, indeed, that would create anew cause of action within -- within the meaning ofsection . QUESTION: But if it had done that, then we'dstill have the same problems of deciding whether the -- aparticular -- like class in this case, whether they comeunder one section rather than the other. You'd have thatproblem then. MR. NEWSOM: I'm not -- I'm not sure that that's th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. exactly right. The problem with class -- and tell me ifI'm misunderstanding. The problem with class is thatclass rises or falls on a given set of -- on a given setof facts. The district court did not conclude whetherthis class of -- this class of plaintiffs' promotion andassignment claims would succeed on a specific set offacts. The problem -- and that we think is the -- theproblem inherent in petitioners' position that ties thequestion of whether a new cause of action has been createdto the viability of a given claim rather than looking, assection -- as section directs the Court to do, what-- to -- to whether or not a civil action is created. Acivil action in my mind speaks to your ticket into court,not so much with respect to what happens to you once youget there. So -­QUESTION: I -- I suppose any suggestion that wewould be creating a -- a problem for Congress in giving it-- in posing a dilemma for it is that they can provide,number one, a new statute and have the statute oflimitations set forth specifically. MR. NEWSOM: Well, that's certainly true. Any-- I -- I certainly agree that any rule this Court adoptscould be superseded by a subsequent amendment of -- of anenactment by Congress. But in the meantime, this Court wethink ought to adopt a rule that minimizes confusion and th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. -- and maximizes certainty. That, in essence, is -- isthe -- is the -- the proposition coming out of thisCourt's decision in Wilson v. Garcia, as Mr. Phillipssaid, which is that in that case, Justice O'Connor, forinstance, made a very good point in her dissent that -- inthat claims run the gamut from police brutalityclaims on the one hand to -- to school desegregation caseson the other and thought that it just didn't make sense toapply a single statute of limitations to such a widevariety of claims. And this Court held -- and I submit correctly -­that the practical considerations, those of maximizingcertainty and minimizing litigation, required theenactment -- or the -- the imposition of a singlecategorical, some would surely say formalistic, statute oflimitations. And the same practical considerationsobtained here at least -­QUESTION: It's also true, is it not, that thisis one of those unique cases in which the -- the -yearrule will help some plaintiffs and help defendants inother cases because some of the State statutes for certaincauses are actually longer than years? So sometimesit's cutting it down and sometimes it's expanding it. MR. NEWSOM: That's certainly right. And the State's principal interest here is in -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. is in a -- a clear statute of limitations, not necessarilythe shortest statute of limitations. Our interest here is-- is principally in clarity. So again, if I can just emphasize, Congress -­Congress acted in section -- or rather in the actagainst a very specific backdrop, namely this Court'sthen-recent decision in Goodman v. Lukens Steel, whichheld that a -- that a single borrowed State statute oflimitations would apply to all section claims. Now,if Congress wanted to walk away from Goodman and create anew cause of action so as to trigger section 's ­year statute, then our submission is then it had to beclear about what it was doing. It had to -- in theparadigmatic example, it had to create a new standalonesection. At the very least, it had to create a -- a self-contained and freestanding civil action within theconfines of section . But where it merely defined theterm in a preexisting cause of action, we submit that thatis simply not clear enough to -- to apply the -- the ­year statute. If there are no further questions. QUESTION: One other question, if I may. Arethere other statutes like -- that have just made asubstantive amendment merely by redefining a term? Ithink this is kind of a -- this is kind of an unusual th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. statute and it may be a very unusual problem we've got. MR. NEWSOM: There may well be Justice Stevens.not that I'm aware of off the top of my head. QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. Newsom. Ms. Gorman, you have minutes remaining. REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF H. CANDACE GORMAN ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS MS. GORMAN: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice. Justice Stevens, if I can answer your lastquestion. Yes, there was another statute that I can thinkof and that's the Pregnancy Discrimination Act althoughthis is before . So the question doesn't comeinto play. But title VII was amended just to add thatcause of action for pregnancy discrimination -­QUESTION: And did they do it -- did thatstatute do it just by redefining a term, redefining -­MS. GORMAN: Correct, Your Honor, by redefiningdiscrimination based on sex to also include discriminationin pregnancy. QUESTION: Yes. That was in response to ourGilbert case. MS. GORMAN: Correct. Your Honor, defendant raised two statutes thatthey -- that they could now point to that they said wouldbenefit from section . They pointed to the Muhammad th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. Ali Boxing Act and the anti-discrimination law. And Isubmit to this Court, as Justice Breyer said, those aren'tgoing to be new acts either because if you look at thoseacts, they're actually amending previous acts, and theypull definitional terms out of previous acts from before. If defendant's interpretation is accepted bythis Court, then we are basically saying section is anullity because we have scoured the statutes enacted byCongress after December st, and we could not findone statute that would benefit from section , becauseCongress often takes terms or definitions or causes ofaction from previous statutes and amends, even when itthinks it's creating or it looks like it's creatingsomething brand new. QUESTION: I -- I don't know what you're sayingwhen you say it takes it from them. Do you mean it justcopies them in the new act? Are you counting situationsin which they recite it in the new legislation? MS. GORMAN: Correct, Your Honor, where theytake -­QUESTION: Well, I don't think -­MS. GORMAN: -- terms out of the new -- out ofold legislation. QUESTION: I don't think your opponent would -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. would count them. I -- I think only if -- if you relyupon the earlier statute for the definition, not if yousimply copy that definition in the new statute, I don'tthink he would consider that to be covered. MS. GORMAN: Well, Your Honor, if that's thecase, then I think what respondent must be suggesting thenis that section would only come into play if the newstatute was the only statute you were relying on. And Idon't think that's what section is stating. I thinkif -- even if this Court says, we're relying on oldsection , as well as as amended by the CivilRights -- Civil Rights Act, clearly our claim is stilldependent on the act and therefore section wouldstill come into play. And as far as confusion, defendant suggestedthat there was even confusion in this case because thejudge in our case did not know if class claims werecovered by this section . There is no confusion withthe court. It just wasn't briefed before the court.There was no record before the court because we had askedfor a slightly different definition in our classcertification, and the judge went beyond that definitionand established a different class for the class . So thejudge just didn't have the record and he thought we couldfigure that, which I think we probably could. And I think th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. the answer is going to be that the class claims alsofall under the statute. The question before this Court is a narrow one:does section apply to plaintiffs' cause of action forracial discrimination and termination? Those claims werenot created until the Civil Rights Act, and I submitto the Court that section should apply to those claims. Thank you. CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: Thank you, Ms. Gorman. The case is submitted. (Whereupon, at : a.m., the case in theabove-entitled matter was submitted.) th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. 