 IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XSECURITIES AND EXCHANGE :COMMISSION, : Petitioner : v. : No. -CHARLES E. EDWARDS :- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -X Washington, D.C. Tuesday, November , The above-entitled matter came on for oralargument before the Supreme Court of the United States at: a.m.APPEARANCES:GEN. THEODORE B. OLSON, ESQ., Solicitor General, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on behalf of the Petitioner.MICHAEL K. WOLENSKY, ESQ., Atlanta, Georgia; on behalf of the Respondent. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. C O N T E N T SORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGEGEN. THEODORE B. OLSON, ESQ. On behalf of the Petitioner MICHAEL K. WOLENSKY On behalf of the Respondent REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OFGEN. THEODORE B. OLSON, ESQ. On behalf of the Petitioner th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. P R O C E E D I N G S (: a.m.) CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: We'll hear argumentnext in No. -, the Securities and ExchangeCommission v. Charles E. Edwards. General Olson. ORAL ARGUMENT OF GEN. THEODORE B. OLSON ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER MR. OLSON: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice, and mayit please the Court: Over , persons in States invested $million in respondent's payphone business on theexpectation that their investments would yield a percent return due to respondent's experience, efficiency,and management expertise. The decision below that thesetransactions were not investment contracts merely becausethey specified a fixed return to the investor, rather thanan unspecified portion of the enterprise's profits, cannot be squared with the language, history, and purpose ofthe Securities Acts, years of consistent SECinterpretation and enforcement, and this Court'sjurisprudence. The congressional definition of security, asthis Court has repeatedly said, is broad and flexible, andintended to be all-inclusive to cover the countless and th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. variable schemes devised by those who would seek moneyfrom others on the promise of a return. Congressintended, in the words of this Court, to encompassvirtually any instrument that might be sold as aninvestment, and the term investment contract, this Courthas held, was intended to be a broad catch-all. Therefore, substance, not form or title, governs. These terms, investment contract, are to beconstrued broadly to embrace - again, in the words of thisCourt - all forms of investment schemes that bear aresemblance to what is commonly understood to be asecurity. And this Court has said, because promoters areso creative, these terms must be flexible and inclusive. A catch-all must catch all. It is irrational to concludethat Congress would have defined security - QUESTION: Mr. Solicitor General, may I jumpahead for a second? Is the - is your adversary correct insaying that as far as decided cases are concerned, not theposition of the SEC, but there is no judicial decisionholding that a - an instrument that provides a fixedreturn is an investment contract? MR. OLSON: Well, Justice Stevens, I can answerthis by saying that the seminal case, Howey, referred toand cited Blue Sky cases and Federal court of appealsdecisions, which did contain those type of instruments, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. fixed return instruments. This specific question has notpreviously been decided by this Court, but the Court hasnever decided, and the cases that the Court referred to inHowey did not ever say that - that the fixed returninstrument was excluded from the term investment contract. QUESTION: How about the United Housing case? MR. OLSON: Well, again, with respect to thatcase, the - I - the Court has decided consistently thatwhat is critical is the - that the investor expects areturn. The Court has never said - QUESTION: But the United Housing case did refer- suggest that the requirement that the income come fromprofits, did it not? MR. OLSON: Well, the - the references to the -to the - this - from this - our perspective, Mr. ChiefJustice, is that the return must be examined from thestandpoint of the investor, the invest - and the Court - Idon't think the Court intended to restrict in that case,and the language is not reasonably susceptible in myjudgement to the - to the understanding that that wasintended to exclude investments or instruments thatprovided a fixed return. What the Court has repeatedly referred to is the- from the standpoint of the investor, what the investoris expecting to do is to put his or her money to work for th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. him or her, that is to say, put that money into anenterprise of some sort so the investor can sit back andwatch the returns come in. The investor doesn't carewhether that's a fixed return or a speculative return. Infact, the definition in both the and the Actincludes types of investments, such as common stock, thathave speculative returns built into their definition, soto speak, fixed returns instruments, such as bonds,preferred stock, indentures, and that sort of thing. Then the term, as this Court has repeatedlysaid, those terms are relatively fixed and understood. But because Congress wanted to embrace, because this is aremedial statute intended to protect the investing publicand the integrity of the marketplace so that people willfeel secure in investing their resources in otherinstruments that promoters are offering - QUESTION: General Olson, you - you put thestress on investment and that seems right with the statuterefers to investment contracts, but there are surely debtinstruments that would not be investment contracts. Sowhat is the dividing line between something thatconstitutes a plain old debt that is not an investmentcontract and not a security, and one that is? I mean, howdo we identify something as an investment contract rather- rather than an ordinary debt? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. MR. OLSON: Well, I think the answer, JusticeGinsburg, is that many of those instruments that areordinary debt instruments may be investment contracts aswell. This Court has repeatedly said is that these termsare overlapping - QUESTION: And what makes it - what makessomething an investment contract? MR. OLSON: Well, what this Court has said isthat when a person puts their money into a commonenterprise with the expectation - expectation of a return,that is - through the - as a result of the efforts ofothers, that is an investment contract. Now, many notes,or many types of offerings, might be based upon a fixedreturn and might appear in the - to look like notes orfixed return types of investments and still be investmentcontracts. QUESTION: But the - depending on the investmentskills of others, that's - is very unhelpful to me. I - Iwould think most creditors who extend credit rely on theinvestment skill or the financial responsibility of - ofthe lender. That's how they're going to get their moneyback. So, I - I find that test hard to work with as alimitation. I know it comes from Howey. MR. OLSON: It does - it does come from Howey,and I think that the best way to look at that, Justice th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. Kennedy, is to look at that the investor, as opposed tousing his own resources, his own efforts, his own energy,his own creativity, is counting on other people to makethe - the instrument - QUESTION: Well, but my point is all creditors dothat just on straight loans - MR. OLSON: Well - well - QUESTION: - so that doesn't advance us very far. MR. OLSON: Well, that's right. That's correct. And there are some overlap, but this Court has said, andit repeated it and analyzed it from that context in theReves case, that there are some commercial contexts andsome consumer contexts in which the Securities Acts werenever intended to cover. QUESTION: Well, the Reves case had language thatdoesn't help you because it seems to exclude a fixedreturn, but - MR. OLSON: Well - QUESTION: - so I - I don't - MR. OLSON: We - QUESTION: - know how great the Reves case is foryou. MR. OLSON: What the Reves case says, and I thinkYour Honor is referring to footnote in the case, inwhich the Court, in construing what was meant by the - the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. term note, looked at the definition of - in - in theForman case, which included the earlier Howey case, as todefine an investment contract. But in that footnote, theCourt very carefully went on to say the definition thatwe're examining here with respect to investment contractis irrelevant with respect to notes. That is dicta piledupon dicta in a sense, because the Court - we - I - werespectfully submit - mischaracterized Forman, the casethat the - where the Court was concentrating on thedifference between someone investing their resources toget something to use, in that case - QUESTION: Well, if - if you - if you don't likedicta that's against you, a lot of the things you've beenquoting are dicta that weren't really necessary todeciding the case. MR. OLSON: Well, what we - Mr. Chief Justice, Idon't think that what we're quoting with respect to whatwe're relying on is dicta. What the - the Court is - hasdefined the term investment contract, first of all, in theJoiner case, and then in the Howey case in very broadterms. QUESTION: Supposing I - I loaned someone$,, they've just hung out their shingle to practicelaw, and I'm - I want obviously the money back, butwhether I get the money back or not is very much going to th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. depend on his skill. Is that an investment contract? MR. OLSON: That's - that is - that is probablynot an investment contract because it is a personaltransaction between individuals. What this - could thefactors that this Court used in the Reves - QUESTION: Well, but all these are transactionsbetween individuals. That doesn't distinguish anything. MR. OLSON: Well, what the - one of the - one ofthe things that the Court said in Reves is that, to theextent that there are any ambiguities at the edge andthose particular factors were considered in Reves, it -the - the scheme of distribution, the nature of therelationships between the individuals, is this - the - issomeone seeking to acquire money to use as capital in the- in the operation of an enterprise - QUESTION: Well, is - are you saying then that aone-on-one transaction can never be an investmentcontract? MR. OLSON: No, we're not saying that. In fact,the Court held to the contrary in the Wharf Holdings casethat there may be - and in another case in this Court'sjurisprudence - that simply because there are oneindividual or one entity dealing with another entitydoesn't exclude the - the operation of the term investmentcontract. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. QUESTION: But the problem is, as - as you wellknow, Justice Ginsburg begins it, and the Chief Justice isasking the same question, if we're going to write thisopinion, it seems to me we have to have some limitingprinciples, some limiting language. Now, we could justtalk about these facts and it'd be a case good for thisride only, but we're - we're wondering about whether ornot these facts yield certain insights as to what might bedefinitional principles for an investment contract. MR. OLSON: Well, with respect to the cases atthe margin, the Court articulated the same kind ofanalysis that the Securities and Exchange Commission does. Where there are cases at the margin, the Court willconsider the motivation of the person raising the money,the person investing in the - in the operation, the natureand type of promotion that's taking place, and - and themotivations of the seller and things of that nature. What- what the question presented here is considerably morenarrow, the question presented here is it - is - is itdisqualified as an investment contract simply because thereturn is fixed or specified? Now, if the Court were to adopt that definition,imagine the size of the super highway loophole that wouldbe created in the Securities Act. Instead of promisingthe sky or - or a speculative return, the investors that th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. develop these types of schemes will simply say percentor percent - QUESTION: Yes, but - but - but you don't - well,maybe you do - we just say an investment contract caninclude a fixed return and then remand it to the EleventhCircuit for it to figure out the puzzle? MR. OLSON: Well, it's not - the - the onlyreason that the Eleventh Circuit decided that this casecouldn't go forward - they couched it in terms ofjurisdiction, but it's really failure to state a claim -was that this instrument had a fixed percent return andsaid investment contracts can't not include that - QUESTION: So your point is that's all we have todecide, whether the fact that it's a fixed return excludesit from the definition of a security? MR. OLSON: Precisely. QUESTION: But it would be desirable to have someclearer understanding of what's covered, and if you had totake your best shot at constructing a definition, whatwould it be? MR. OLSON: Well, I would adopt, and theGovernment would propose, that the Court do no more thanrearticulate what the Court has repeatedly stated - andit's stated it as well in Howey as it could possibly stateit - a transaction in which a person invests money in an th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. enterprise with the expectation of a return, gain, profit. Now, in the Forman case that we submit was notcharacterized correctly in the Reves footnote, the Courtused all of those terms, the expectation of a profit, theexpectation of a return. In Howey itself the Court - QUESTION: We - we've gone - gone around that. Imean, the problem is the ordinary loan, the ordinary loanfrom one individual to another. I loan you $, andyou will pay it back over so many years and give me somuch interest a year, meets that qualification, meets thatdescription, and you acknowledge that that is not aninvestment contract. MR. OLSON: The - what the Court has said is thatin - in those kind of cases, where it does not look astypical as the typical investment scheme - QUESTION: What makes it look like a typicalinvestment - I mean, that's what we're trying to get - MR. OLSON: What makes it look like a - QUESTION: What makes it look like the typicalinvestment - MR. OLSON: Well, the characteristics are - QUESTION: You say it is not the mere fact thatit's not a fixed return. That isn't it. What is it then? MR. OLSON: Well, the things that make it looklike an investment contract in this context is that the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. individual is putting himself, his money, into anenterprise that is being, in this case, widely promoted - as I said, - over , investors put their moneyinto this enterprise hoping to get some return as a resultof the - the efficiency or effectiveness - QUESTION: So at least where it's marketed to thepublic you would say it's covered, at least that, eventhough you don't know backing up where to cut it off? MR. OLSON: Well, the - the precise lines here,Justice O'Connor, may be difficult in a particular one-on-one investment case. The Court acknowledged that inthe Reves case, said that there - there are - there aresituations that look more like consumer transactions orthey may look - more look like - QUESTION: So isn't the question about theindividual transaction really related to the conflict onthis horizontal and vertical distinction that Judge Layrelied on in his concurring opinion? And as I understandit, that's not before us as to the validity of his vote inthe case. MR. OLSON: That's - that's correct, Justice - QUESTION: Because I don't understand eitherparty to have addressed the - this alleged conflict overhorizontal or vertical. MR. OLSON: That was not what - yes, that's th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. correct. Judge Lay discussed that in his concurringopinion, but the court did not rely upon that, the partieshave not briefed that, and that question is not beforethis Court. QUESTION: So it's entirely possible that youcould win here and the case would be remanded for thecourt of appeals to decide whether or not Judge Lay wasright? MR. OLSON: I guess that's - I guess that's -that's possible. I - QUESTION: Your - your opening argument saysthere are agreements for investment contracts - MR. OLSON: Yes, we did. QUESTION: - that's what you asked us - MR. OLSON: Yes, we do. And - and - I think thatthere is - this is not a difficult case from thatstandpoint, because all of the indicia that the SEC hasbeen using for years, and what the SEC has articulatedthis standard in formal adjudications, to which this Courtdefers under Chevron, it did years ago in the Zandfordcase, with respect to the SEC, there is here in this case years of consistent enforcement of this principle bythe Securities and Exchange Commission - QUESTION: So to be clear about your - whatyou're saying is, there are a lot of criteria that rule th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. out loans, ordinary loans, because after all, they wouldotherwise come in the words evidence of indebtedness. There are a lot of words in this contract that could pickup ordinary loans, but then there are a lot of criteriathat rule them out, of all those words, not justinvestment contract. And this case is about one word. What you would like is a decision that says, the wordprofit in Howey meant profit in the sense of ordinaryreturn, return being broad enough to encompass fixed orvariable returns of various kinds, period, end of thematter, reversed or remanded. That's - that's your -that's your point, not get into these other criteria forother things. MR. OLSON: Precisely, and the Court has not donethat in the past, does not need to do so here. There aresituations like the Reves case where the Court said, well,some notes are securities, some notes are not securities,and then goes through - what the Court in that case waslooking at, a Second Circuit decision that said, well,some notes are not securities, some are securities, andthen laid out a methodology, which, by the way, is thesame methodology that the SEC understand - well - widelyunderstood to employ with respect to those cases at themargin. But, Justice Breyer, I agree completely. This th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. is a paradigmatic investment contract. It's like thecases involving chinchillas or rabbits, one of these casesinvolving rabbits, it - there's two of the - two of the - QUESTION: Except it's different in that herethere's a fixed return. In those, there was not. MR. OLSON: That's not correct, respectfully, Mr.Chief Justice. Two of the - two of the cases cited inHowey, People v. White and Stevens v. Liberty Packing,were - QUESTION: Well, I thought you meant cases inthis Court. MR. OLSON: No. I'm talking about cases thatthis Court accepted when it decided the Howey case, butthis Court has never - QUESTION: Well, that's a pretty, you know,that's a pretty tentative attribution to - to this Court,that - that it was paying that close attention that itunderstood in all of those cases whether it was a fixedreturn or not. MR. OLSON: Well, it certainly wasn't ruling itout, Justice Scalia. What this Court - what the - thisCourt specifically said in Howey, because it had nothingto go on. Congress, first of all, decided to make thedefinition as wide as possible to use again this Court's th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. language to cover everything that might commonly beunderstood to be a security, and because promoters are soingenious, to cover all types of investments that mightcarry some of those characteristics. So the Court said, we're going to look at thecases that involve the Blue Sky statutes that - that hadbeen in existence and had been interpreted prior to theadoption of the Act. There's not one of those statutesthat limited investment contract to a variable return andexcluded fixed return, was not one of those cases underthe Blue Sky statutes that excluded fixed returninvestment contracts from the definition of investmentcontract. QUESTION: Well, were - were they all fixedreturn cases then? You say there was not one of them thatexcluded fixed returns. MR. OLSON: They were not - they were not - someof them were variable returns, Mr. Chief Justice, but someof them were fixed return. The two cases I cited, the onewas People v. White, where, if the Court looks at thatcase, the Court will find that the - the - the language ofit is - the party of the first part will pay $, andthe party of the second part after years will pay $,back. That was a fixed return investment. But not onlydid the Court in Howey cite those two Blue Sky cases that th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. involved fixed returns, but the Court cited then four -and we mention these, I'll not go through the names againhere, we mention them in our briefs - four court ofappeals decisions that had involved no pooling of interestand there - there have been two SEC formal adjudications,which again, as I said, this Court gives deference to. And the first time the SEC sought to enforce aninvestment contract in this kind of context is SEC v.Universal Services, which goes back to . Very seldomdoes this Court have that kind of -year history ofconsistent enforcement by the agency vested withresponsibility, and again, these have matured themselvesinto not only court decisions but, in addition, formaladjudications. The securities laws have prophylacticpurposes. They are designed to protect people that puttheir money in the hands of other people who are runningbusiness - businesses - and from whom they expect to makea return. I invite the Court's attention to exhibit andparticularly pages through of the joint appendix,and this is the type of note that the - the respondentwill say, well, this was not our document, this was one ofour distributor's documents, but it's alleged in the - inthe complaint and there is evidence to support that thisis - this was out there available for investors to see. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. There are millions to be made from pay - owning payphones,watch the profits add up. And then on page , thisdocument goes on to say, for the payphone owner, the needto do individual things to make money is taken care ofthrough these management contracts, because the payphoneowner can benefit from the experience, operatingefficiencies, and management expertise provided by ETSPayphones. QUESTION: What sort of management expertise isrequired to manage payphones? MR. OLSON: Well, there's - there are many ofthings, at least, A, there was a promise that it was done,and secondly, Mr. Chief Justice, where that payphone isput, how it is managed, the appearance of the payphone, isit - is it mechanically functioning properly. This wasthe promise that was held out - give your money to us, wehave thousands and thousands of these payphones - QUESTION: This isn't exactly Warren Buffett,though, running around replacing payphones. MR. OLSON: Well, that's correct, Mr. ChiefJustice, and maybe that's the point, that - that thethousands of investors who invested in this type of schemeare the same type of thousands of investors that invest inother types of schemes. What the Securities Exchange Actsrequire is that for people who are marketing opportunities th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. to invest widely to the public - and I use the word widelycarefully because it doesn't have to be that widely, butit was here - to expect people to provide their money andthen to provide a return to put their money to work,that's what the securities laws are all about, to providethat remedial prophylactic purpose of requiringregistration so honest transactions will take place in themarketplace. If the investor could do to - to - to complywith the Eleventh Circuit and say, well, I'm not going tosay percent anymore, I'm going to say you're going todouble your money every years, or it's going to be agood return, it's going to - it's going to be pie in thesky, you're going to go home and retire, that would all ofa sudden make it not an investment contract. And the verypeople - QUESTION: But you're - you're saying that it -it somehow remains - does it remain or not remain aninvestment contract is - if all that you alter is that itwas not offered to the public, it's one individual wholoans money to this company and the business of thiscompany is with - with payphones, okay, and the deal withhim is you will get percent a year back on your - MR. OLSON: If it's - if - QUESTION: - on your loan. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. MR. OLSON: Mr. - Justice Scalia, if it's thesame kind of transaction where I - I'm going to buy thispayphone, lease it back to me, I'm going to have amanagement contract, and you're going to make a lot ofmoney, the fact that it's one person, this Court'sjurisprudence says does not make it not that - does notmake it not an investment contract. QUESTION: What - what makes it different justfrom a straight loan? What makes it different? Thebuying - MR. OLSON: Because it is a - it is - QUESTION: - the buying of the phone first orwhat? MR. OLSON: It is a - it is a package in which it- in the - in the first place is, I think, JusticeBreyer's question suggests it might - that might be a noteand that might be a security under certain circumstances.But is it a - it is the type of scheme transaction inwhich people invest their money on - for those types ofpurposes, and - and in - where - where there aredifficulties at the margin, this Court and the SEC haveprovided a formula by which these various differentfactors can be examined as in the Reves case. What I was about to say is that to the extentthat you change the requirement and allow it to be th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. speculative, the more speculative you can be, the lesslikely you're required to comply with the securities laws. That seems like tilting the securities laws completely ontheir head. The people that are the least - that are themost risk-averse are looking for guarantees of returns andfixed returns. The people that depend - that aren't theWarren Buffetts, that depend upon the integrity of thesystem, are the ones that are going to be most vulnerableif the Eleventh Circuit decision is upheld. Mr. Chief Justice, I'd like to reserve thebalance of my time. QUESTION: Very well, General Olson. Mr. Wolensky, we'll hear from you.ORAL ARGUMENT OF MICHAEL K. WOLENSKYON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT MR. WOLENSKY: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court: We start with the language of the statute, andthat tells us two things. First of all, commercial leasesis not a term included in the statute, and second of all,the term investment contract is undefined. But over acourse of decisions during the past years, thisCourt has identified the essential attributes ofinvestment contracts. It has identified those, definedthose, and explained those. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. One of the essential attributes of investmentcontracts is a return of profits. The Court's restrictivedefinition of profits in the - in the Forman case and thenreiterated in the Reves case, captures very effectivelythe investment risk and investment reward characteristics- QUESTION: Is it your position that no debtsecurity could ever be an investment contract? MR. WOLENSKY: As long as it was a fixed return,that is correct. QUESTION: Well, why it distinguished between afixed return and an other kind of debt security? MR. WOLENSKY: Well, under the SEC's explanationin its briefs, it refers to a lot of things as fixedreturns, which are really just sham, boastful promises bypromoters, and I believe that's what takes this situationcompletely out of what the SEC is proposing. Both partieshere agree that the correct test the Court should apply isthe Howey test. There - we don't disagree on that. QUESTION: And you contend that test would nevercover a debt security? That's my question. MR. WOLENSKY: That is correct. That test wouldnever cover a debt securities because this Court hasdefined profits for Howey test purposes to mean anexpectation of profits from earning - th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. QUESTION: What would be the underlying reasonfor excluding debt securities and limiting the coverage ofthe Act to equity securities? MR. WOLENSKY: Investment risk, Your Honor. Thatis the key. QUESTION: Well, there was an investment riskhere. MR. WOLENSKY: Well, there really wasn't, becausewhat you have is a commercial lease arrangement, atelephone acts as the collateral, so to speak, to use thisCourt's words from the Reves case, but you have acommercial lease arrangement like commercial leasearrangements done throughout the country - QUESTION: Well, but this is a leasingarrangement that's really a financing arrangement. Theuse of leasing for financing purposes really developedafter the Act was passed - MR. WOLENSKY: It did - QUESTION: - and this is really a financingtransaction. MR. WOLENSKY: It can be characterized that way,Your Honor. That's correct. QUESTION: Well, certainly the person's return,it didn't depend on what happened in his own phone booth,the one he happened to own. His - his risk was what the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. overall enterprise would produce, as I understand it. MR. WOLENSKY: That's absolutely correct, YourHonor, and that is a credit risk, not an investment risk. QUESTION: What's preferred stock? MR. WOLENSKY: Preferred stock is an - has bothinvestment risk, because it can have fluctuating values,some do. QUESTION: So can debt. MR. WOLENSKY: Debt can if there's a market forthe debt. That's correct. QUESTION: There is. MR. WOLENSKY: But the investor - that's correct- but the characterization of the return to the investorin debt is generally viewed as - as a return, the interestrate, and as far as the market - market - QUESTION: That is preferred stock. MR. WOLENSKY: Preferred stock, but it's acapital appreciation issue and that's not an issue here. QUESTION: So can debt appreciate. MR. WOLENSKY: Well, that's right, but that'scapital appreciation and we don't have capitalappreciation in this case. QUESTION: What about bonds? The definition alsoincludes bonds. The term security means any note, stock,bond. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. MR. WOLENSKY: That's correct, and a bond is afixed return instrument. QUESTION: It is indeed. MR. WOLENSKY: It's a specifically designatedtype of security by Congress. It is not - it does notfall under the investment contract rubric. It may vary inits value and have capital appreciation - QUESTION: Yes, but - but when some of the thingsthat are specifically listed are fixed return items, itseems hard to credit your contention that somehow thereason investment contracts cannot cover this particulararrangement is because this arrangement has a fixedreturn. But - but Congress intended the term security tocover some things that have fixed return. Why notinvestment contracts? MR. WOLENSKY: Without question, it did, butCongress and - and this Court has stated very clearly,certainly in the Reves case - QUESTION: Yeah, but the Reves case was dictum,and the question here is, are we going to turn that dictuminto a holding? And before we get to a holding I thinkyou've got to answer Justice Scalia's question. When wehave specific examples of - of - of fixed returns, whyshould the general proposition investment contract somehowbe held not to include as a generality a fixed return th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. contract? MR. WOLENSKY: Our position is that investmentcontract is an equity-type security, and we think that isfounded on all of the history and when Congress used theterm investment contract - QUESTION: Let - let me - I - I don't want to be- be short with you, but I don't think you're getting atwhat he and I want. We - we have examples in which thefixed returns securities are specifically listed. Why -let's be specific - why would Congress have wanted toexclude this kind of a scheme? MR. WOLENSKY: Because - QUESTION: It's being marketed as a classicinvestment scheme. Why would it have wanted to excludethis one? MR. WOLENSKY: Because this is a - this is acommercial lease. QUESTION: Well, it's not a - a normal commerciallease. It's a - it's a commercial lease of an essentiallytrivial piece of property, which is replicated thousandsand thousands and thousands and thousands of times. It ismarketed on - on the theory that you're going to get anextraordinarily generous rate of interest. These are -these are not classic sale and lease-back contracts. MR. WOLENSKY: Well, I - I disagree with Your th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. Honor. I believe it is a legitimate lease. There's neverbeen a question that it's not an enforceable lease. There's never been a question that the telephone didn'thave the value ascribed to it. It was fairly valued. QUESTION: But it's being marketed not to peoplewho want to go into the lease business, but people whowant to invest their money and sit back at home and get atreturn. MR. WOLENSKY: That may be true, but it cannot bedenied that in fact there was a lease agreement. Everywitness who testified or provided a declaration inconnection with the case acknowledged that it was a lease. QUESTION: Let's assume it is not denied. Whywould Congress have wanted to exclude this kind of fixedreturn transaction when it is classically being marketedas an investment? MR. WOLENSKY: There were leases that were beingused for commercial purposes in . Lease financing wasbeing used on very significant items then in the railroadarea and other areas, but leases are not new, novel, orunusual. Investment contract was designed, as this Courthas said - QUESTION: No, but as a public policy issue, Ihave the same question Justice Souter has. From astandpoint of public policy, why in the world would th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. Congress want to exclude a broadly marketed scheme likethis from the definition of investment contract? Whywould it? It's marketed like other schemes that mighthave a variable return. They put all these little phonebooths together and it required the management of othersto know how to place them and service them and make itwork. It's not something that the - a person acquiringthe lease is going to do individually. I mean, why isn't- why would Congress have wanted to exclude this? MR. WOLENSKY: Justice O'Connor, the - the onlyanswer I can give is because it does not have investmentrisk. It's - it is excluded from the term investmentcontract because it doesn't have investment risk. All ofthe pre- Act cases - QUESTION: Well, I suppose it does from thestandpoint of the management required to make this schemework. MR. WOLENSKY: Well, that's a credit risk - QUESTION: Anybody who was investing in - inpayphones in the era of the - the satellite was taking aninvestment risk, I would think. MR. WOLENSKY: Well, when the - QUESTION: Like the buggy went just before thehorse - just before the automobile. MR. WOLENSKY: Justice Scalia - th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. QUESTION: Must mean something special byinvestment risk. You must not mean what we ordinarilymean because I think your investors don't feel that way. So what do you mean by it? When you say no investmentrisk, you know, we're all reacting this way because itseems so obvious to us, anybody who invested money in thishas now lost all his money, so it must have been prettyrisky. So - so I - you must mean something special by it. If you do, I want you to explain it. MR. WOLENSKY: Well, the - the money that waslost was lost as a result of a bankruptcy and whatoccurred in the bankruptcy, but when the bankruptcy wasfiled, these phone owners still owned their telephones andthey were still entitled to their lease payments. Thatwas dealt with in the bankruptcy and the details of thatare not involved in the record here but in - there's a - asignificant difference between investment risk, which thisCourt characterized in Forman and recognized from theVALIC case, is a matter of fluctuating value generally. When you look at credit risk you're - QUESTION: I'm sure you don't think a person whobuys a bond doesn't take an investment risk. MR. WOLENSKY: A person who buys a bond takes acredit risk, not an investment risk. There is adifference, and I believe - th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. QUESTION: There's a significant - QUESTION: You think buying a - a whole portfolioof bonds is not an investment? MR. WOLENSKY: Well, it - it is an investment,but it - it is not the type of investment risk that yousee in fluctuating values securities or equity securities. QUESTION: Have you ever held a bond wheninterest rates were going up? MR. WOLENSKY: I - I agree - QUESTION: You would have learned what aninvestment risk was. MR. WOLENSKY: Justice Souter, I agree that bondscan fluctuate in value and that deals with a capitalappreciation - QUESTION: Which means that it is more than amere credit risk. MR. WOLENSKY: To the extent you were looking tothe bond to return a value and - and hold it for purposesof changing value, it theoretically could. QUESTION: And anyone who buys a bond with thepossible expectation of selling before maturity assumesexactly that. MR. WOLENSKY: They are going to face that riskand that - that is, in fact, an investment risk. But thekey here, it seems to me, is the fact that you do have a th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. lease agreement, that is what it is involved here. It isa legitimate lease agreement. It is like any otherequipment lease agreement and it is going to be dealt withunder State law. There is also a significant issue herewith respect to the coverage of other regulatory agencies. We have in fact Federal Trade Commission coverage here. There's no question about that. It is involved - QUESTION: Mr. Wolensky, you don't challenge, doyou, that under State Blue Sky Laws, this distinctionbetween variable and fixed return is not made, that StateBlue Sky Laws treat as investment contracts - do not drawthe line between fixed and variable returns? MR. WOLENSKY: The - the challenge I make is thatbefore the State Blue Sky Laws that were - cases thatwere incorporated and mentioned in Joiner and in Howeywere variable return cases. I disagree with the SEC onthe two cases. QUESTION: Do you agree that there are a body ofcases under State Blue Sky Laws that involve - maybe someof them even involve these payphone schemes - but thathave fixed and not variable returns? MR. WOLENSKY: As of today, that is correct. That is what I see in the amici brief and I have no reasonto question that. The way the law has developed underState law, it would include fixed returns, that's correct. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. QUESTION: So why, if this notion of aninvestment contracts comes out of State Blue Sky laws andwe are told that the one thing in this area, becauseschemes are invented every day, is that - that theinterpretation should be flexible, not static, to meet thecountless and variable schemes devised by those who seekthe use of money of others? MR. WOLENSKY: Justice Ginsburg, this Court has - has repeated that over and over. I will agree with that,but the Court has talked about new, novel, and unusualschemes. There is nothing new, novel, or unusual aboutlease agreements and commercial leases, and what you haveto focus on here is what the Court has said. It has givenguidance. It has said that unanimously - it may have abeen a footnote in Reves, but certainly - QUESTION: But when the issue isn't in the case,what a court says in a casual footnote, when the case hadnothing to do with fixed versus variable returns. I mean,yes, the Court made it used in cautious languages, but we- but in none of the cases that came here was thequestion, do you draw the line between fixed and variablereturns? In the case that - that you featured - you callit Forman or United Housing - there it was a question ofinvestment versus consumption. Did you buy this thing tosit back and get money from it or did you buy it so you th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. could live in the house? That was the distinction thatwas before the Court in this case. I don't know any ofour cases that - that drew the line between - that wherethe issue was before the Court. MR. WOLENSKY: Justice Ginsburg, in Forman, theCourt had to address the issue of whether there was aninvestment contract involved, and it stated what I wouldcall the Forman formulation of profits in connection withdoing that analysis on the three types of profits thatallegedly - or that had been found and allegedly werepresent in the Second Circuit decision, and it appliedthat formulation to each one of those. So it was - QUESTION: But it did - but the case was notabout equity versus debt classification. It was aboutwhether you were attracted - whether you were attracted topurchasing the shares by a desire to get a financialreturn or were you attracted because you wanted a place tolive. That's what - that's the two questions - that wasthe dividing line that the Court was dealing with there. It wasn't dealing with equity versus debt. MR. WOLENSKY: That is correct, Justice Ginsburg. And then in Reves, it was dealing with the distinctionbetween equity and debt. QUESTION: Well, but in - in Forman there was nodistinction between fixed and variable income. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. MR. WOLENSKY: It was not, but when you read the- Justice Kennedy, when you read what the Court said inForman, it's talking about an expectation of profits orcapital appreciation, and those are two variable forms. They're not - they're not fixed. They necessarily varywith the marketplace. If I can finish answering your question, JusticeGinsburg, with respect to Reves, there was a distinction,a very specific distinction there, between fixed and - andvariable. That's what that case was about, investmentcontract versus note. And the Eighth Circuit had decidedthat the investment contract case of - that the investmentcontract test of Howey would apply to notes. There were aseries of tests and this Court used the Reves opinion to - to go through those and decide, and it came up with afamily resemblance test that had been used by the SecondCircuit. In the footnote in Reves, it is very clear thatwhat the Court is doing is distinguishing and explainingwhy Howey does not apply to notes, which are fixedinstruments. I think it is not just a passing referenceand it - it was unanimously stated that - QUESTION: But I thought that - I thought thatthe meaning of investment contract was not at issue inReves. MR. WOLENSKY: The meaning of investment contract th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. was not at issue, but distinguishing investment contractwas at issue in Reves, and explaining why it was notapplicable in that case. The parties briefed the issue,the SEC briefed the issue as amicus took the same positionit - it has taken here, and the Court in Reves said thatis not the position we accept. QUESTION: And it's - it's taken that positionfor a long time, Mr. Wolensky. It's not just the case lawthat you have to contend with, it's also - this is afterall an administrative law case. The meaning of investmentcontract, you must admit, is at least ambiguous, and theSEC has taken the position it's taken here for a very longtime. MR. WOLENSKY: Well, if I can address - QUESTION: Why shouldn't we defer to the F -SEC's judgement about the matter? MR. WOLENSKY: If I can address that for just amoment, Justice Scalia - QUESTION: That's why I asked the question. Ihoped you would. (Laughter.) MR. WOLENSKY: Thank you, sir. With respect tothe very long time, if you go back to the case the SEC haspointed to a number of times, the Universal Service casefrom in the Seventh Circuit, when you - and the SEC th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. talks about its position in that case - its position inthat case was stated in its brief in that case, and whenyou look at its brief in that case, it recognizes that itis not dealing with a fixed return as we would talk aboutit. In fact, in the brief, the SEC says the amountultimately credited to the contributor's account, theamount itself being dependent upon the degree of successattending the venture - and I'm reading from pages and and footnote - with respect to the Abbett, Sommercase, which is a - I believe decision - by the SEC,the SEC admitted in Abbett, Sommer that it wasn't lookingat traditional profits analysis. That was a mortgage loan servicing case and theysaid that what was being offered there was not just therepayment on the notes but also the services, and theyfound that the reduction of risk in that case was the -basically the profit. So they departed from what is anormal profit analysis and that's freely admitted. In the interpretative release they've issued,the multi-level release under the Act, number , inthere the SEC admits that Howey is an equity-type test. They specifically say that. So I think that when you lookat the history of what this Court has done and what theSEC has done, when you get to - when you get to Reves andwhen you get to Forman, it is - there's no ambiguity left th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. as to what is meant by profits at that point. So I thinka position - QUESTION: I think there is. I think that inUnited Housing itself they spoke about profit may bederived from income yielded by an investment, incomeyielded by investment. That doesn't say income fromearnings. MR. WOLENSKY: That is correct, but in the verysame area of the opinion is where the Court says byprofits in the Howey analysis, we have meant aparticipation in earnings or capital appreciation, citingthe earlier cases. QUESTION: They said that in one place. Theysaid financial returns in another place. They said incomein another place. Maybe they were so incautious about theprecise use of those terms because they were focusing onan investment purpose versus a - a utilitarian purpose. MR. WOLENSKY: I would agree with that, but thefact that Reves concluded what it did about Forman'srequirements would tend to show that that's really whatForman required. The - the court of appeals, of course,was not free to disregard what was a unanimous statementby this Court. This Court obviously can change itsopinion or change its view, but there is no compellingreason to depart from what has been accepted for years. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. Other courts of appeals - QUESTION: Well, why isn't there, when the SEC - let's assume that you're right about that the SEC wasnever crystal clear about its position. But now it says,we've looked at these schemes, payphones is a good one, alot of elderly people are investing in these schemesbecause they promise a fixed return and that sounds secureto them, better than variable out of earnings and profits,so this is exactly what we should be protecting the publicagainst. If the SEC takes that position clearly now andyou're dealing with a statutory term that's in a line,some of the things are equity, some are debt, and in themiddle is this term investment contract. Why should wetie it to variable versus fixed? MR. WOLENSKY: Justice Ginsburg, because thisCourt has said more than once, every fraud is not asecurities fraud. There are other avenues of protection. There are several risk-reducing factors involved in theseleases. The leases themselves are covered by State law inthe Uniform Commercial Code. There's other regulatorycoverage, other agencies. In fact, some of the Stateagencies that filed amici briefs here have indicated thatthey believe they have coverage of those. So the fact that the Federal securities lawsmight not cover this doesn't mean that there's not going th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. to be protection of the public. The consequence, and Ithink it's an important consequence that the Court has tobe aware of here if it agrees with the SEC's position, isthat every equipment lease can be brought under the rubricof Howey if - QUESTION: Why, why, why? QUESTION: That's not - QUESTION: I mean, there are all kinds of othercriteria, you know. I mean, you have to be putting upmoney, it has to be - if it is a big market - schememarketed to the - to the public like this, yes. But if itisn't, if GM happens to buy some - a railroad car from oneof its suppliers, I would think the answer's no. Butthere are a lot of other criteria, so why everyone? MR. WOLENSKY: Well, the - it is not in therecord but it is public knowledge and information that isavailable that some $ billion of equipment leasingoccurs every year, and it - equipment leasing involveseverything from telephone systems to computers, officeequipment. It is a very, very large industry. If thatapplies to this large industry - QUESTION: You'd have to be passive, you'd haveto - you'd have to treat it as an investment. I doubtthat most of that leasing is really that, but I mean, mypoint is, aren't there dozens of other criteria that you th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. have to satisfy, not just this fixed variable one? Andthat's a serious question. I'm interested. MR. WOLENSKY: Well, on - Justice Breyer, thereare - there essentially are four criteria that the - thatthe SEC would say you have to apply: an investment ofmoney - and this Court said in Daniel that investment ofmoney doesn't just mean money, it can mean services, itcan mean assets. That's why we say in analyzing this itdoesn't matter whether you bring your phone to theagreement or money to the agreement, but if you putequipment into a lease arrangement, you have an investment- QUESTION: Invest money may itself refer to thethousands of public people who simply want to give moneyto an enterprise in contrast to General Motors that rentsa railroad car as part of its business. MR. WOLENSKY: I can contrast that and agree withyou that in General Motors, renting a railroad car is partof its business. It is not going to be probably found torun afoul of the securities laws. QUESTION: So what is the example of the badthing that happens when we agree with the SG? MR. WOLENSKY: General, broad, small itemequipment leases will be covered by the Howey test. QUESTION: The people who are not themselves in th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. business, by people who are not themselves in business orby people who are themselves in business? MR. WOLENSKY: Well, whether they're in businessor not in business the securities laws would still coverthem and I don't believe there's an exemption that wouldbe available for the ordinary business. QUESTION: Why - why isn't your argument equallyapplicable to notes? We've been through that in Reves. Imean, you could have argued in Reves, my God, are yougoing to cover every note? You're making the sameargument here with investment - investment contract,aren't you? MR. WOLENSKY: Well, not necessarily. I thinkthe Court did set forth some very specific criteria inReves. The family resemblance test exempts out commercialnotes that have credit risk and not investment risk. QUESTION: Justice Breyer has just been applyinga family resemblance test to exclude General Motors'boxcar. Why isn't that sort of thing just as feasibleunder investment contract as it is under note? MR. WOLENSKY: It is, and if you - if you look atthe criteria the Court looked to, I think you will seethat several of the criteria that this Court has talkedabout indicate that this would not be covered. I believeit is - it's not specifically related, but the Court noted th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. four criteria, and if you apply those criteria, I thinkyou find that they in fact - QUESTION: You've come to this quite late, but Imean, it seems to me that there are other words besidesworking with the nature of the fixed or variable returnthat will draw the kind of line that you think - and Iguess I would think - you should draw between an ordinarybusiness, sale and lease-back so they can carry on theirbusiness, and some kind of general marketing to thepublic. And I'm actually quite interested in that. You've written about it, though, and I'll get it out ofthe briefs. MR. WOLENSKY: We have and - and I was - havebeen trying to address the question that was presentedalthough we felt a different question was involved. ThisCourt for years has set a jurisprudential standard forinvestment contracts and while the courts work on thehabits of people, people work on the habits of courts. There are lines that have - QUESTION: In those years we've never saidthat a fixed return can never be an investment contract. MR. WOLENSKY: That is correct. You've neverexplicitly said that, but by never explicitly saying that,that doesn't mean that it necessarily is covered. Thedecision of the court of appeals followed this Court's th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. precedents. It was correct and it should be affirmed. QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. Wolensky. General Olson, you have minutes remaining.REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF GEN. THEODORE B. OLSONON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER MR. OLSON: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice. I willtry to make just three points. One, this is aboutsecurities. The statute, which is extraordinarily broad,says note, stock, treasury stock, fractional undividedinterest in oil, gas, mineral rights, straddle, option. It's - there - it would be difficult to draft the statutethat was intended to be more all-inclusive than the wordsused in these two provisions of the and Act. It ismanifestly clear that Congress wanted to cover thewaterfront, as this Court has said, everything that lookslike a security, and wanted to cover the whole range frompure equity, if there is such a thing, to pure debt, ifthere is such a thing. It would be - and then they put catch-allprovisions. If the - if the words didn't cover it, therewere catch-all provisions, investment contract is one. Itwould be irrational for Congress to say, well, we've got acatch-all for those - from A to Z - that go from A to Hthat look more - look like equities, but not S to Z thatlook more like debt, and then we're don't - not sure about th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. the ones in the middle. The purpose for the catch-allprovision is to catch all. That is what this investmentcontract was. Secondly, just two of the cases that wereattempted to be distinguished by my colleague, People v.White, he said that did not involve a fixed return. Well,the language of the case - this is in P.d at -the individual promised to spay - pay - a specified sum ona specified date as principal and earnings for the statedperiod of time upon the investment. That's pretty muchidentical to what we have involved in this case. And inthe Securities and Exchange Commission v. UniversalServices, another one that my colleague referred to, page of F.d, at the end of years there would bereturned to each member an amount equal to totalcontributions plus percent per annum. Now, this caseis percent. The argument's that being made by the respondenthere is an argument that the Blue Sky - a distinction thatthe Blue Sky Laws don't make. Congress did not make thisdistinction. The Court has never made this distinction. It conflicts with years of consistent SEC enforcement. It is squarely inconsistent with the notion of a broad,flexible, remedial purpose of the securities statutes. Itwould make no sense, would create a gigantic loophole th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. where individuals, by changing the terms of - from pie inthe sky to percent, and they would do that immediately,and Congress would have to deal with it in a way theCongress has already dealt with, and there is no reason tochange what they - what the law has been, and the EleventhCircuit decision should be reversed. CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: Thank you, GeneralOlson. The case is submitted. (Whereupon, at : a.m., the case in theabove-entitled matter was submitted.) th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. 