 IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XMICHAEL FITZGERALD, TREASURER OF IOWA, Petitioner :::v. : No. -RACING ASSOCIATION OF CENTRAL IOWA, ET AL. ::- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XWashington, D.C.Tuesday, April , The above-entitled matter came on for oralargument before the Supreme Court of the United States at: a.m.APPEARANCES:THOMAS J. MILLER, ESQ., Attorney General of Iowa; DesMoines, Iowa; on behalf of the Petitioner.KENT L. JONES, ESQ., Assistant to the Solicitor General,Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on behalf ofthe United States, as amicus curiae, supporting thePetitioner. MARK McCORMICK, ESQ., Des Moines, Iowa; on behalf of theRespondents. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC C O N T E N T SORAL ARGUMENT OF THOMAS J. MILLER, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioner KENT L. JONES, ESQ.On behalf of the United States, as amicus curiae, supporting the Petitioner MARK McCORMICK, ESQ.On behalf of the Respondents REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OFTHOMAS J. MILLER, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioner PAGE th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC P R O C E E D I N G S(: a.m.)CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: We'll hear argumentnext in No. -, Michael Fitzgerald v. RacingAssociation of Central Iowa.General Miller.ORAL ARGUMENT OF THOMAS J. MILLERON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERMR. MILLER: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court:The Iowa Legislature, consistent with the EqualProtection Clause, can charge different tax rates for itsriverboats and its racetracks for a number of legitimateState interest reasons, including and especially the onehighlighted by the district court judge here, the promotion of the development of river communities. In , Iowa broke ground and got more friendlywith gambling and allowed horse racing and dog racing inour State.QUESTION: It's called gaming if -- if you favorit.Honor? MR. MILLER: I -- is there a neutral term, YourIn -- in regard to gaming, one of the mainpurposes of having horse and dog racing was to develop a th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC new subset of our agricultural economy, the breeding,training, and raising of horses and dogs. And thatsucceeded. It turned out to be about a $ millionindustry. Six years later, with visions of Mark Twain inthe background and the two incredible rivers in Americasurrounding our State, the Mississippi and the Missouri,the legislature authorized riverboat casinos, riverboatgambling. And one of the main purposes there was tourism,economic development for the river communities andriverfront development. In a very short time, there were$ million worth of investment along the variousriverfronts. A few years later, though, neither gamingenterprise was -- was doing as well as they would like, indeed, not doing -- not doing well at law.In regard to the riverboats, the problem was,well, Iowa had this sort of, in a way, naivete maybe aboutbetting. They restricted the amount of bets onriverboats. It could only be a $ bet and one couldn'tlose more than -- more than $ in one setting. Well,Illinois had a different view and had no limits and werestarting to succeed competitively. The -- the situation with the racetracks wasmore severe, that economically it just wouldn't work to th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC have racing, either horse racing or dog racing alone. SoIowa became the first State in the Nation to allow thesort of the -- the golden goose of gambling, slotmachines, at racetracks.QUESTION: So now the bulk of the earnings arefrom slot machines rather than the races. Is that right?MR. MILLER: That -- that's right, Your Honor. Indeed, really the slot machines support the -- supportthe racing.QUESTION: But under your scheme, I take it thehighest tax rate for slot machine income at racetracks is percent versus percent for slot machines onriverboats.MR. MILLER: That -- that is correct, YourHonor. And that was provided on a -- on a graduated basis. Actually in next year it's -- the percent wouldbe -- would be reached.QUESTION: And you want to offer a rationalbasis for that scheme? MR. MILLER: Yes. Yes, we do, Your Honor. Andwhat -- what we say is that the development of the -- ofthe riverboats could be rationally preferred by the -- bythe legislature because of riverboat development, becauseof economic development on the -- on the rivers.Additionally, the -- the district court found th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC that the additional rational basis could be sort ofsupporting the riverboat enterprises as a -- as anindustry, promoting riverboat history. Also, we argue that there was a problem ofriverboats leaving the State, that three out of six in theprevious -- previous to , the legislation year, had --had left the State. QUESTION: Well, because of that legislation,the Delta King left the Sacramento River and it's gone upto the Mississippi. MR. MILLER: Well, that was the next purpose,Your Honor, to try and get other boats to -- to come toIowa, and apparently --QUESTION: They're -- they're saying -- andmaybe there's -- I take it from their brief that, look, there's never been a tax scheme like this. Obviously, aState very often would -- would tax at a different rate ahandsaw and a screwdriver, but we've never heard of aState that said when you sell a screwdriver, you pay percent tax if you sell it in Des Moines and a percenttax if you sell it in Dubuque, and if it's sold by onekind of a person, they sell percent tax, and it's allthe same screwdriver. So they're saying there's neverbeen a -- really a tax system like this anywhere, and --and they better have some pretty good reason or -- or th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC something. I mean, now -- so is all that true, that therenever has been a system like that, saying the samescrewdriver, everything identical, all it is is it's soldin different parts of the State or by different people,and -- and you have to pay a different tax? MR. MILLER: Well, I think there's been manytimes where the -- the taxpayer has been -- been treateddifferently even if -- even if the transaction is thesame. QUESTION: Like what? Like what? MR. MILLER: Sort of the -- the enterprisezones, for instance. Communities are -- are givenfavorable tax rates all the time for economic developmentpurposes and that's what's here. And --QUESTION: Typical -- typical sales tax. Youknow, the State may tax a barber's income at a differentrate than a hairdresser's and yet they may use the samestuff.MR. MILLER: Yes. Yes, Mr. Chief Justice, that-- that would -- that would be another example. And, you know, the State has great latitude inthe taxation area and justifiably so because there are somany complexities that -- that that be available to theState. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC QUESTION: Do -- do you agree, at least to theextent the respondents say, that there's no other State inwhich slot machines are taxed at a different ratedepending on their location, that this is unique to Iowa?MR. MILLER: I -- I think as far as I know,that's -- that's the -- that's the case. Slot machinestypically are not in multiple purposes -- not multipleplaces like Iowa. Typically they're in -- they're incasinos. So there's not -- not a lot of apt comparisons.But you know, this is -- this is a -- a questionfor the legislature. When there's no suspect category orfundamental right available, the legislature has -- has agreat deal of -- of discretion. And the enterprise -- thepurpose of the enterprise is different. The economicdevelopment as opposed to the agricultural, for instance. When that -- when that is the case, the -- the legislaturereally has -- has a great deal --QUESTION: So I push their argument or am Iimagining -- I'm trying to put it the strongest way. Look, cosmetologists and barbers do different things, andmoreover an enterprise zone is a special part of the Statethat's not exactly the same. Something different is goingon there. Here it's slot machine income. Nothingdifferent is going on. Nothing. MR. MILLER: Well, there is difference -- th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC QUESTION: I -- I -- yes, go ahead.MR. MILLER: There is difference in -- in theenterprise. One has slot machines and table games. Theother has slot machines and -- and racing. But here youhave a -- a series of communities in -- in eastern Iowaand then in western Iowa along the rivers that hadsuffered loss of manufacturing jobs. This was -- this wasan effort, a legitimate effort, on the part of thelegislature to advance a new industry, a tourism industry,on the two rivers.QUESTION: As I understood it, didn't -- didn'tthe tax on the -- the higher tax on the racetracks comelater? MR. MILLER: It was -- it was phased in, YourHonor. That --QUESTION: And I can't quite understand howimposing an extraordinarily high tax on racetracks issuddenly going to provide a benefit for riverboats.MR. MILLER: Well, the legislature, of course,had the -- had the discretion to -- to have them both at percent. The -- the benefit of the -- to the -- to theriverboats was that -- that they didn't go to the higherrate that -- that the -- that they did for the -- for theracetracks. It's sort of a chicken and egg problem, but-- but they're spared that -- that higher rate and -- and th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC that's -- and that's an appropriate benefit. QUESTION: It's across-the-board rate foreverything that goes on at the riverboat, right? It's a percent rate, whether its roulette or card games ordice, it's all percent. MR. MILLER: That's it. The --QUESTION: For the race, there's a greatdisparity between the parimutuels. It's only what, about, percent? MR. MILLER: That's right, Your Honor. There'sa -- there's a very favorable rate for the -- for theracing at the -- at the racetrack. So it's a -- in asense it's a -- it's a blend of rates between the two. Again, understandably so --QUESTION: Is the rate -- is the rate for taxing other gaming activities on the riverboats different fromthe slot machines on the riverboats?MR. MILLER: No, Your Honor, it's not. It's --it's the same. It's the same rate. So you have -- yousort of have percent there as opposed to, say, as wasjust pointed out, or percent for the racing at the --at the racetrack. QUESTION: So it's administratively easier tocalculate if you have all one rate for the riverboat?MR. MILLER: It would be -- it would be more th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC easily to -- to calculate and more efficient. QUESTION: You say the riverboats, obviously,are located on the rivers which bound Iowa on the east andon the west. How about the racetracks? Are theyscattered throughout the State?MR. MILLER: They are scattered throughout theState. Two of them are on the -- turned out to be on therivers. But the largest one, the premier one, PrairieMeadows, is in the Des Moines area in -- in central Iowa.QUESTION: Add that if we looked into this atany depth at all, we'd discover this originated from alegislator who hated racetracks and loved riverboats andwas trying to kill the whole thing. And then they saythat besides that, there was a report of a committee thatsaid all this enterprise zone -- we don't think that's so, et cetera, et cetera. MR. MILLER: Well, I mean, shocking that -- thata legislator on -- on -- in riverboat country would tryand help the -- help the riverboats. I mean, that's, forbetter or worse, part of the -- part of the legislativeprocess, always was and always will be. And -- and courtscan't be sort of cops to -- to make sure that -- that they-- that they do not do that. QUESTION: Well, under --QUESTION: If we ever look to the real reasons th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC for things, it would be a disaster, wouldn't it? (Laughter.) MR. MILLER: Yes. Well, it's, you know, the oldadage about sausage, making sausage, that you shouldn'twatch it, that --QUESTION: But the Iowa -- the Iowa SupremeCourt seems to think it could look to what was the realpurpose, not the purpose that we could conceive. Lots ofnice purposes like the riverboat drifts away and theracetrack is --But you said something in your reply brief that-- that really surprised me. It seems to me that if wesay -- if you're talking about Federal equal protection,this is an area in which the leeway for the legislature isthe widest that there is. But couldn't Iowa then say, okay, we're just doing this under Iowa equal protection,and we can make that whatever we want? And for us, thereal purpose counts, not the conceivable purpose.MR. MILLER: Yes. The -- you know, the -- thelegislature -- the court could have said that they werediverging from -- from the standards of this Court.QUESTION: But you said they couldn't do that onremand. On page of your reply brief, you said that theIowa Supreme Court cannot reconsider the State courtdecision in order to subsequently establish an adequate th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC and independent State ground. Why couldn't it?MR. MILLER: Well, our argument is -- is, YourHonor -- and we know we're -- we're into sort of a littlebit new territory here. But our argument is that -- thatthe court has made a decision that the -- the analysis --a clear decision that the analysis is the same under theFederal and the State constitutional provision. If thatanalysis, judged by a higher court, is determined to bewrong, then that would -- would seem perhaps to settle it.But more significantly, the -- the respondentsdidn't argue below that there was a separate analysis,that -- that they should look at it separately.QUESTION: But they could. I mean, nothingwould foreclose them on remand or the Iowa Supreme Courtitself. MR. MILLER: Yes. It's -- it might not, but weargue that -- that they sort of waived that argument, thatthey didn't argue that in -- in the first time through,that they -- it was a different analysis. They conceded,like everybody else, and assumed that it was the sameanalysis. QUESTION: All our opinion would say, if wereverse the Supreme Court of Iowa, was remand it forfurther proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion. And so certainly, so far as our remand order is concerned, th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC the Supreme Court of Iowa is free to do whatever it wantsso long as not -- as it's not inconsistent with ouropinion. MR. MILLER: I understand, Mr. Chief Justice. Maybe I'm making my argument too soon and -- and will --QUESTION: I doubt if you'll have any betterluck with it before the Supreme Court of Iowa. (Laughter.) MR. MILLER: Well, we -- we will -- we will tryI -- I assume. What -- what we're saying here is that -- thatthere are multiple legitimate State purposes availablethat are well within the zone of Nordlinger and therelated cases that have been before this Court, that --that this is comfortably a legitimate State interest, a number of them, most specifically the development of the-- of -- of the river communities. And that's -- that'sconsistent --QUESTION: Would it make any difference in youranalysis -- I don't know if this is true or not -- but ifthe legislative history, if you had a complete record ofall the debates and everything else, and it was perfectlyclear that the hypothetical reasons you advance weredefinitely not the reasons that motivated the particulartax rates, that they did it just, say, to get even with th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC the racetracks because somebody was unhappy with somethingthey had done in the past or something like that, wouldthat make any difference? MR. MILLER: Well, I -- I don't think thatthere's -- there would be sufficient legislative historyto foreclose rational speculation.QUESTION: No, no. Take his hypothetical. There is.QUESTION: I'm assuming that there is, that --that there's a reason out there that -- that -- none ofthe reasons that you advance were, in fact, considered byany of the legislators. In fact, they rejected them. They thought, we really don't want to help the riverboats. What we want to do is do something to really penalize theracetracks because they're an immoral business, they're even worse than gambling on the rivers. But that's whythey're doing it.QUESTION: And they put that right in thepreamble to the act. QUESTION: Would that make any difference inyour analysis? MR. MILLER: I -- I think that that kind of --kind of history would not, in a rational speculation case,that -- that --QUESTION: I guess my question is, is it th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC rational speculation when you know it's not true? (Laughter.) MR. MILLER: Well, I -- I suppose not.QUESTION: Well, it's usually not true. I mean,usually these things are done for the self-interest of --of legislators from various districts, and -- and as longas there could be a rational -- I -- I would have -- I'msurprised it took you so long to answer that question. (Laughter.) MR. MILLER: I wanted to be thoughtful, YourHonor. But like -- we get back to -- to the -- the roughand tumble of the legislative process as -- as yousuggest, Your Honor, is such that the courts don't --don't review that, don't -- don't --QUESTION: But isn't -- isn't that exactly really the point? The courts just don't review it. Andunless you get to -- to some fact pattern that -- thatgets you a -- a higher level of scrutiny, it's not so muchthat we're engaging in rational basis scrutiny. We'rejust saying we can't touch the political process unlessyou get yourself into a suspect class. Isn't that reallywhat we're saying? MR. MILLER: That's -- that's pretty much --pretty much what's -- what's being said here and -- andhow the cases have been interpreted. And is -- and it th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC makes -- makes a lot of sense because like you -- like yousuggest, Your Honor, when there's -- there's not afundamental right or a suspect category, that's the purelegislative authority and that's where democracy kicks inour -- in our country, for better or for worse, and theassumption is that if they make a mistake, democracy laterwill -- will catch that mistake.Your Honor, I'd like to -- to now turn it overto -- this has been my first argument, so I refer to himas my safety net. (Laughter.) MR. MILLER: Kent Jones from the SolicitorGeneral's office, and reserve what time is remaining afterhe is done. QUESTION: Very well, General Miller. Mr. Jones. ORAL ARGUMENT OF KENT L. JONESON BEHALF OF UNITED STATES AS AMICUS CURIAE, SUPPORTING THE PETITIONERMR. JONES: I'd like to thank counsel. And Mr.Chief Justice, and may it please the Court:Taxing decisions are like spending decisionsbecause they affect the State's economy, as well as itsbalance sheet. In recognizing that fact, this Court hasconsistently upheld the -- the -- has consistently held th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC that a State's desire to promote or foster one type ofbusiness over another or even to promote or foster onemode of doing a business over another is a rational basisthat supports taxing the one and exempting the other.For example, in State Board v. Jackson in ,this Court held -- upheld a tax differential, a differenttax treatment, of chain stores versus single enterpriseretail stores. Even though these businesses didessentially the same commerce, the Court held that in theState's exercise of its broad authority to govern theeconomy of the State, it can prefer one mode of doing thesame business over another. And that same rationale has been applied by thisCourt in numerous contexts involving tax distinctionsbetween, for example, warehouses located near railroads and warehouses not located near railroads, betweenlaundries that are operated by hand and laundries that areoperated by machine, and even between individuals andcorporations that are conducting identical businesses. QUESTION: What about -- what about slotmachines owned by Republicans versus slot machines ownedby Democrats? (Laughter.) MR. JONES: Assuming that we're still talkingabout State laws -- th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC QUESTION: No, that's exactly -- I'm seriousabout --MR. JONES: Assuming we're still talking aboutState laws, I would have to ask myself what would be therational basis. The rational basis --QUESTION: The rational basis is the Republicanshave a majority in the State legislature. (Laughter.) MR. JONES: Well, that might explain -- thedifference I think between your hypothetical and -- andwhere I'm trying to come from is that the rational basishas to be related to a legitimate State purpose. There'sa -- a legitimate State purpose in fostering certain kindsof commerce and suppressing others. QUESTION: What about -- what about slot machines owned by farmers and slot machines owned by citydwellers? MR. JONES: It's -- it's hypotheticallyconceivable and that's the question that this Court askeditself under -- under FCC v. Beach. Is there aconceivable State interest that would justify thatdistinction? And obviously, that -- the fact that therehas to be one doesn't mean there always is one, and I'mnot standing here saying, well, every imaginabledistinction is justifiable. The distinction in this case th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC is simply between -- is whether the State couldconceivably have preferred riverboats over racetracks.QUESTION: What -- what have we held wasn'tjustified outside of a suspect category situation, such as-- I don't mean Republicans and Democrats. You're intoFirst Amendment suspect categories I suppose. What --what have we ever held was -- was irrational that didn'tinvolve race or -- or, you know, political discriminationor something like that?MR. JONES: The -- there's a case that JusticeGinsburg could tell us about. She argued a case wherethis Court -- I think it was called Weinberger v.Wiesenfeld, a case -- not a tax case. It was a SocialSecurity benefits case, and the Court held that thedistinct treatment of -- of the surviving spouse's ability --QUESTION: It's a suspect category, and I mean,we're into sex discrimination. MR. JONES: Well, it -- it was described by theCourt as -- as a rational scrutiny case, and it said therewas no legitimate State interest because in -- in thecontext between treating differently male and femalesurviving spouses, in light of the objective of thatstatute, which was to protect the -- the children of thecouple, there was no rational basis to prefer one rather th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC than the other. That is -- that is the only case that I can citeto you where this Court has applied a rational basis testto strike down a Federal statute. There may well beothers.QUESTION: There are others, but it's -- it'sthe -- it's quite interesting, is -- is there a -- thereare two sets where they're struck down. One is what youmight call the heightened rational basis which arenormally not economic regulation, but there was the mental-- the mental -- the building, you know, the -- of thehome for the mentally disturbed or whatever. And thenthere are the ones that are out-of-state, which areDormant Commerce Clause cases. But is there any which isa pure rational basis in an economic area? You think the answer to that is no, and I can't think of one. MR. JONES: I -- I can't think of one, but it'snot because there is no rational basis test. It's becausein applying this test, the Court is very deferential inrecognizing that States have intentionally been given thisauthority over regulating State commerce, and that thesekinds of choices are left to the legislative branch.QUESTION: Mr. Jones, when you talked aboutFederal tax, I thought you were going to say the one thatyou have in your brief, Martz against Commissioner. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC MR. JONES: Well, I -- we understand that tohave been a case where the -- which you also argued Ibelieve, unless I'm remembering the wrong case --QUESTION: That was -- that was -- you left outthat cert was denied. MR. JONES: Ah.(Laughter.) MR. JONES: I made another mistake in the briefthat I'll get to later if I have a chance. But thatwas --QUESTION: These are all cases she won or lost?MR. JONES: I'm afraid --(Laughter.) QUESTION: You didn't -- you didn't make themistake of citing one that she lost, did you? (Laughter.) MR. JONES: No, I don't think so. QUESTION: There are no such cases. (Laughter.) QUESTION: Oh, yes, there is and it was a taxcase. It was a State tax case.(Laughter.) MR. JONES: But -- but the -- it was -- it was atax case. But in that case, the Court -- you were -- theCourt was persuaded that the distinction was invidious. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC The Court didn't say that a different treatment ofunmarried men and unmarried women in this particulardeduction context was irrational. The Court said it wasinvidious. So I believe that the only tax -- Federal taxcase that has -- well, I don't believe there is a Federaltax case that this Court has decided that violated --failed to meet the rational basis test. The -- the court below made -- the Iowa SupremeCourt -- where it went wrong was looking to only one ofthe purposes of the statute. There were many purposes. They looked to just the purpose of whether it aidedracetracks, which just kind of strikes me as anunrealistic way to look at what the purpose of alegislation that imposes a tax on racetracks would be.But to answer a question that Justice Stevens raised earlier, when -- in applying the rational basistest, the courts are to look to any plausible orconceivable theory. And -- and in FCC v. Beach, as wellas other cases we've cited, in applying that test, theCourt has said that you don't look -- you're not bound bythe facts of the particular case. And indeed, you're notsupposed to make fact findings as to what these legitimateinterests might be. Instead, you're supposed to allow theState any rational legitimate interest that the Courtmight -- might be able to perceive and -- and nail down th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC that point in that case by saying that -- and I'm quoting-- it is entirely irrelevant whether the conceived Statepurpose actually motivated the State's decision.So you don't have -- the State doesn't have toshow that these rational, legitimate State interests, infact, motivated the decision. It doesn't have to showthat they are, in fact, the basis for the decision becausethis is a Federal constitutional question. This is not aquestion of interpreting the State law. If we wanted tointerpret the State law, we'd want to know what itspurpose was, but that's not this task. In looking at theconstitutional limitation, it only -- it only takes effectif the State has no conceivable or plausible legitimateinterest in the classification. One other point to mention briefly is they say Allegheny Pittsburgh points another direction. AlleghenyPittsburgh was the rare case that this Court said inNordlinger -- was the rare case where there was a WestVirginia State constitutional provision that said allassessment -- all property taxes will be levied based onmarket value. A local assessor in that State didn't likethat and he -- he assessed taxes based on acquisition,which is prices, which is the last sale price of eachproperty, and that resulted in -- in a differentialtreatment of each taxpayer. And what this Court held in th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC -- in Allegheny Pittsburgh was that because the Stateconstitution prohibited any taxation other than marketvalue, there was no legitimate State interest to justifythe -- the distinguishing tax rates. Well, that case doesn't have any applicationhere because there's no provision in the Iowa constitutionthat says that the Iowa Legislature cannot, in regulatingcommerce, prefer or promote riverboat traffic andriverboat --QUESTION: Do you read Allegheny as saying thatthe -- if the State had enacted exactly the scheme thatwas being administered there, that it would pass equalprotection review?MR. JONES: It -- well, in Nordlinger, the Court-- if I understand your question right, in Nordlinger, the Court upheld an acquisition -- last sale price tax schemeI think in California where there was no constitutionalprovision in California that required market valuetaxation.QUESTION: Would the answer in this case bedifferent if the Iowa Supreme Court told us that the Iowaconstitution requires that all slot machines be taxedalike?MR. JONES: I think that you would make -- Ithink in that -- in looking for a legitimate State th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC interest, you would make an inquiry into whether the Iowaconstitution prohibited preferring riverboats --preferring riverboat commerce because a legitimate Stateinterest for Federal purposes -- and the Court made thisvery point in response to a dissent of yours in -- in theopinion by Justice Brennan in the Minnesota v. the CloverLeaf Creamery case. QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. Jones.Mr. McCormick. ORAL ARGUMENT OF MARK McCORMICKON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTSMR. McCORMICK: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court:I think the Iowa Supreme Court in this case, asthis Court will determine as it reviews the opinion, addressed two questions, not merely one question, in thisequal protection challenge. The first question the court addressed is whatdid the legislature have in mind in enacting thislegislation. In doing so and in answering that question,the State court was doing what State courts routinely do,interpreting State law. Once having determined the meaning of State law,as was its prerogative, the court then moved to the secondquestion which is the only question that the State and the th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC United States have argued here, really, which is the equalprotection issue. We think the first question has to be answeredbefore you jump to the second. QUESTION: Well, what about the -- our decisionin FCC v. Beach, which was just referred to earlier, whereit says it really doesn't make any difference what theactual facts were? MR. McCORMICK: The -- the decision in Beach, asI understand it, did require the establishment of alegitimate State purpose under the FCC provision that wasat issue. In fact, the court of appeals had sent the caseback to the FCC: Tell us what you had in mind, and thecourt of appeal -- or the FCC said, we can't think of abetter reason than was given by Judge Mikva in his concurring opinion, and this Court accepted that as beinga plausible basis then for the distinction that was atissue in that case. QUESTION: But we have said that any conceivablerational basis is enough. We don't care what Iowa reallyhad in mind. MR. McCORMICK: I think you do, Your Honor, andI think the case that was mentioned earlier, theWeinberger case, is an illustration of how it makes adifference. In that case, as the Court ultimately found, th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC there was gender discrimination which was inappropriate indealing with the issue survivorship benefits as tospouses, and the argument that was being proffered by theGovernment in that case was, this is okay because thisstatute was intended to take care of women who havetrouble, when they are widowed, getting by in the workplace.QUESTION: If you think gender discriminationcases aren't different, you're just wrong. MR. McCORMICK: No, Your Honor. I -- I am notsaying that the analysis was the same, but I am sayingthat the Court looked to the actual intent as it was shownby legislative history. QUESTION: Some legislatures -- somelegislatures don't have legislative history. What is tobe done in those cases? What, do you -- you convene atrial court to take testimony from legislators and othersto find out what was the actual intent of the legislators?MR. McCORMICK: What is routinely done in Iowais what we did in this case, which is -- and what courtsroutinely do at the State level, at least what's done inIowa, is that the court looks at any available materialsthat would bear on the concerns --QUESTION: There are no materials. I mean, someStates don't have legislative history. They just don't th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC keep it. MR. McCORMICK: That's right. QUESTION: What do you do in that case? MR. McCORMICK: I'm telling you. QUESTION: Do you call witnesses? MR. McCORMICK: We don't have -- we do not haverecords or transcripts of legislative debates at committeehearings. QUESTION: So were -- were -- was testimonytaken from legislators asking why did you vote for thisbill?MR. McCORMICK: No, Your Honor, but --QUESTION: Why not? MR. McCORMICK: -- affidavits -- excuse me. Butaffidavits were obtained that explained what the concerns were that were being addressed. We have a full record. This was a summary judgment motion in which we put ininformation that was available to the legislature.QUESTION: Affidavits from legislators?MR. McCORMICK: Yes, Your Honor, but not sayingwhy they voted as they did, but explaining the legislativehistory. And the Iowa court routinely, in dealing withthe meaning of State law, has accepted the kinds ofmaterials that we put in the summary judgment record.QUESTION: Why didn't they explain why they th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC voted as they did? If, as you say, the -- the intent ofthe legislature is the criterion, why didn't you ask them,why did you vote the way you did? MR. McCORMICK: Because Iowa, like this Court,suggests that an individual legislator is incompetent tosay that, but Iowa, like this Court, will permitlegislators to explain legislative history, which is whatwas done here. That's what we did with these legislatoraffidavits. The Iowa Court used the kinds of materialsthat States use when they --QUESTION: The whole is the sum of its parts. If you're really interested in why the legislature did it,you ought to get affidavits from every legislator sayingthis is why I voted for it, and if percent voted for itfor a certain reason, that was the reason. MR. McCORMICK: In a State like Iowa, where wedon't have the kind of information that's available fromCongress, what we do is we ask our court to determine whatthe legislature intended as it must in many, many cases,including this kind of case, and offer the court the kindof information, the background information that'savailable. QUESTION: If that's how it's done in Iowa, itcan be done that way. This Court, when it's dealing withtax cases, it doesn't do it that way. It doesn't look for th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC the actual purpose. And in -- and in the Wiesenfeld case, the wholething was driven by it being a gender classification, andthe Government's argument was this was pure favor towomen. And the argument is that, no, that was not theactual purpose.MR. McCORMICK: This Court has said in severalcases -- it has said in the Nordlinger case and also inHeller against Doe -- that even in a rational basis case,to be plausible, a justification must not be precluded bythe record. And, for example, that is how Nordlingerdistinguished Allegheny Pittsburgh because AlleghenyPittsburgh had determined that the West Virginia propertytax scheme was a market value valuation or appraisal system. And in Nordlinger, the position was beingadvocated, well, this case is governed by AlleghenyPittsburgh. You can't have an acquisition value systemlike California. The Court distinguished AlleghenyPittsburgh by saying that the record in AlleghenyPittsburgh precluded the legislative goal of having amarket value -- excuse me -- having an acquisition valuetax system. That's how the case was distinguished.QUESTION: But if you're looking at what -- whatthe legislature did, they did one thing great for the th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC racetracks. They gave them permission to have these slotmachines, which they didn't before, so they're preferringthe racetracks by giving them this, but they say not toomuch because we're going to let you make money from theseslot machines, but not too much. We're going to take apiece of it.So you like what they did, the permission tohave the slot machines, but then say, ah, but once -- theyhave to give us as sweet a deal as they gave theriverboats. They didn't have to give you anything. Theydidn't have to let you have the slot machines.MR. McCORMICK: Well, Your Honor, our argumentabout that is that they -- they threw us a lifeline whenwe were faced with economic disaster, just as they werethrowing a lifeline to the riverboats, but it had an anchor attached to it. What they did, of course, was havea -year moratorium before the first escalation of taxoccurred and they provided for a total of years beforethe percent is effective. It will be effective nextyear.QUESTION: But it was -- it all came in in thesame legislation, didn't it --MR. McCORMICK: That's correct, Your Honor. QUESTION: So they gave you something you neverhad before and it was pretty good, but you didn't -- th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC MR. McCORMICK: The Iowa Supreme Court said whatthey did by that legislation was put us in a class thesame as the riverboats with respect to slot machines,which was the main activity at both -- both venues, andthat they treated us differently by imposing thisdraconian --QUESTION: Well, then to treat you the same, Ithink that they would have to raise the parimutuel bettingfrom percent, whatever it was, to percent. MR. McCORMICK: Your Honor, the record hereshows that parimutuel betting has invariably been a losingproposition at the tracks, and the legislature, when itpassed this statute, specifically and expressly requiredthat the riverboats use the revenue first to pay theirdebt, because they were in terrible circumstances, but secondly to subsidize the purses at the parimutuel bettingand to promote the -- the horse industry. And such --these are mandated goals which were -- which thelegislature required.QUESTION: That the riverboats do that or thatthe tracks do that?MR. McCORMICK: No. That the racetracks dothat.QUESTION: Oh, okay. You said the riverboats.MR. McCORMICK: I'm sorry. I meant the th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC racetracks are required by the statute to -- to do thosethings. Parimutuel betting has -- has never been a sourceof net revenue in -- at least since the bankruptcy of themain racetrack in . QUESTION: As I understand, the riverboatswouldn't make money either if they didn't have the slotmachines. MR. McCORMICK: Well, that's certainly arguable. They've had them since they were initiated. Their problemin was getting rid of the betting and loss limits.But the -- the Iowa court -- and it's ourcontention that this was a matter that was within theprerogative of the court -- in ascertaining thelegislative intent in this case, said it was not theintent of the Iowa Legislature to benefit riverboats at the expense of the racetracks.QUESTION: So how does this work? I mean, Ithought there was a distinction between your trying toshow in a case like this that the rational purposes thatare advanced simply are not served -- that's a factualmatter. And I take it that's Allegheny. They showed thatthe -- that this wasn't a way to bring about what theyclaimed.MR. McCORMICK: Yes. QUESTION: All right. But it's not open to you th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC to show that the legislature didn't really have thatmotive for the reason that if the courts permitted you toshow it, there would be no end to that. People would bearguing about legislative theories in State cases likethis forever.So if that's right -- I -- I mean, you're not --I don't think you can show the first. Maybe you can. MR. McCORMICK: Well, our contention is that --QUESTION: Yes -- is you can. MR. McCORMICK: -- this Court left that open tous in Allegheny Pittsburgh.QUESTION: Yes. I think it did leave it open,but you see, they come in with some rational purposes, andyou think you've showed here that -- that they don't --that this -- this particular statute could not serve those purposes as a matter of the world of fact?I mean, one is, for example, they say if wedon't have a lower rate -- you've heard it -- they'll gooff to some other place, and they have one that went tosome other place. And you don't deny they went to someother place. MR. McCORMICK: Well, the question is not onlylegitimacy of the goal, but whether there is a rationalrelationship and whether the classification involved isreasonably related to any differential treatment. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC As in Allegheny Pittsburgh, our complaint hereis a comparative one. It's the comparative treatment forthe same activity essentially in the same place becausewe've got racetracks in two of the cities that -- that arethe cities where two of the three riverboats were in fact,and -- and on the same activity, which is what the IowaSupreme Court found when it determined that forclassification purposes, it saw no difference except thatone was a facility that was fixed and the other floated.And then having -- having made thatdetermination of the equal situation, the court looked atdifferential treatment too and said --QUESTION: But there was another factor that --that was part of it, isn't it? There was a percentrate across everything, all the kinds of games that they have on the riverboat. So that's nice andadministratively convenient. You don't want to have onerate for the slot machines and another one for blackjack.MR. McCORMICK: Yes, Your Honor. And that ratewas in place in . There wasn't any change in the taxpaid by riverboats. The legislation imposed for the firsttime, because it authorized for the first time, a tax onslot machine usage and activity at the racetracks.QUESTION: May -- may I address a -- a slightlydifferent argument that you were making, I think you were th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC making a minute ago? And that is, now -- it had twopremises. Number one, you said our own cases show that a-- a conceivable rational basis cannot be relied upon whenthe record indicates that in fact that was not the basisfor the legislation. So fact limits what is -- what canbe considered as conceivable. Number two, you said a moment ago that the IowaSupreme Court made a determination about the -- thepurpose of the statute, and -- and at least theydetermined that the purpose of that statute was not to aidriverboat gambling. So I take it your argument is you can't arguethat this differential treatment is rationally related tothe promotion of -- of riverboat development or river development because the Iowa Supreme Court hasdefinitively determined that that was not the case. Isthat a fair statement? MR. McCORMICK: That's certainly part of ourargument, yes, Your Honor. QUESTION: All right. My -- my question I guessis this. There is no question that the Iowa Supreme Courtin the construction of the Iowa constitution can approachmatters that way. If this Court approaches matters thatway, then in effect we're going to have two different th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC methodologies, one for Federal cases, I guess, and -- andone for -- for State cases. And we're going to have totake every State case subject to fact determinations madeby the State courts, and that's going to limit theapplication of this conceivable rational basis test. Why would it not be wiser for us to say, just tokeep the systems running smoothly, look, we are not goingto be bound by State court determinations of legislativeintent or purpose? The State courts are perfectly free todo that under their own constitutions, but when it gets tous, we will not accept, for example, the determination ina case like this by Iowa that the purpose was not to aidriverboat gambling. Why wouldn't that be a sensible wayfor us to -- to go, leaving the State courts to run theirsystems any way they want to? MR. McCORMICK: We think, Your Honor, that thequestion of the meaning of State law has always beenwithin the domain and prerogative of -- of the Statecourts. QUESTION: But this isn't a question of Statelaw. It's a question of State fact in applying a Federallaw, i.e., the -- the rational basis scrutiny under theFederal -- the Equal Protection Clause.MR. McCORMICK: Yes, Your Honor. I'd inviteyour attention to Metropolitan Life Insurance Company th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC against Ward, which came out of Alabama, dealt withburdensome taxes placed on out-of-state insurers thatwanted to do business in Alabama. That case, like thisone, involved a summary judgment proceeding whereinformation was put into the State court record. TheState in that case advanced, as I understand it, somethinglike reasons as rational bases for thatdifferentiation. Now, this Court reviewed two of them because theState court held that they were valid justifications underthat summary judgment record. This Court reversed,finding that those justifications were not valid orsupportable. They were not rational. But this Court didnot go further than to look at the other profferedjustifications by the State. The Court sent the case back for completion of the summary judgment proceedings. And what was being done in that Alabama case isexactly what we did in this case by looking at the summaryjudgment record. QUESTION: I thought that was -- involvedinterstate discrimination against out-of-state actors.MR. McCORMICK: That was the -- that -- that wasthe issue that was being reviewed on equal protection --QUESTION: But here you have everybody internalin the same -- the same State. So I think that's a th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC different case.MR. McCORMICK: Excuse me, Your Honor? QUESTION: Well, you're not discriminatingagainst out-of-staters, which is a Federal concern. MR. McCORMICK: Yes, Your Honor. I'm nottalking about the -- the equal protection issue there. I'm talking about the manner in which the record wasdetermined and the State court was given the prerogativeof telling this Court what it determined the purposes wereof the law.QUESTION: But if you're -- if you're rightabout how Iowa goes about doing things, then you go backand tell the Iowa court, the Supreme Court has this anyconceivable purpose test. You have what's the realpurpose test. So now say we'll apply our own State notion of what equal protection is and -- and that's the end ofit.MR. McCORMICK: We're going to say that wethought the -- this Court would say if the record showed,whatever the record was, in this case our summary judgmentrecord, that the rational speculation by the Government isnot supported by the realities of the situation, then thatthe court -- that sort of justification is not plausible.We thought that's what this Court's view was. We certainly will argue to the Iowa court that th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC it is within its prerogative initially first to decidewhat the legislative purposes were, as it does in manycases and as this Court has in many cases respected whenit is doing Federal constitutional review where themeaning of a State law is a threshold issue. We'll bethen inviting the Iowa court, if this Court remands thecase, to reconsider the case under the Iowa constitution. QUESTION: Mr. McCormick, why isn't there acategorization problem in this case? I mean, there is noIowa law pertaining to slot machines in particular. Thereis a law taxing table games at -- the revenues from that,at percent. Right? MR. McCORMICK: Yes, Your Honor. QUESTION: Why isn't it perfectly reasonable tolook upon these laws this way: Iowa is taxing a business which has nothing but table games at percent on all thetable games. It is taxing a business which has parimutuelbetting plus slot machines at percent for the parimutuelbetting and percent for the slot machines.I mean, you certainly wouldn't be complaining ifthey taxed racetracks at a combined rate of percent or-- or a combined rate of -- of percent for that. Nowyou -- you would have no complaint. So why does it makeany difference if they simply, instead of picking onepercentage, charge percent on the parimutuel and th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC percent on the slot machines? But they're two differentbusinesses. One is just table games. The other one ishorse -- horse racing and slot machines. They're --they're different businesses. They're taxed differently. MR. McCORMICK: Well, the -- at least the viewof the Iowa court was that these two enterprises, theriverboats and racetracks, are engaged in the samebusiness. They are in the same class. And singling oneof those taxpayers out for differential treatment violatesequal protection in the view of our court. The -- the --QUESTION: Your court is entitled to -- to viewit that way from State law, but they were -- they've saidthat State law mirrors Federal law, and just because theychoose to look at it that way, that doesn't mean I have to look at it that way. MR. McCORMICK: No, Your Honor. That's --that's certainly correct. But in terms of the classification here, wethink that the State court was warranted in finding thatthese two taxpayers are in the same class. Parimutuelrevenues have -- have not, from -- actuallyimmediately preceding that and subsequently, ever been afactor in the revenues of racetracks except a negativefactor. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC The table games -- that's an advantage that theriverboats have over racetracks, not a justification fordifferential treatment for putting a heavier tax on thesame activity at the racetracks. QUESTION: It's an odd position when you saythere was no obligation whatever for the State to allowslot machines at racetracks, but if they allow it, theyhave to be as generous to the racetrack as they were tothe riverboats. What didn't come in as a discrete itemcame in as part of the whole gambling operation. It isstrange to say not only -- once you give it to us, youhave to give us the best deal.MR. McCORMICK: We're not -- we're not reallysaying that. We're saying that -- that any differentialtreatment cannot be of the magnitude that exists here and be consistent --QUESTION: But you'd have no equal protectionargument at all if they didn't let you have the slotmachines.MR. McCORMICK: That's correct, Your Honor. QUESTION: Iowa -- the Iowa court made thestatement, as I understand it, that the Iowa EqualProtection Clause and the national Equal Protection Clausehad identical requirements at least for the purposes ofthis case. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC MR. McCORMICK: What they said was that theyapplied the same analysis as this Court.QUESTION: Okay.Now assume, for the sake of argument, that wedon't accept the analysis for purposes of Federal equalprotection. Do you understand the Iowa decision to bethat there is -- despite that finding on our part or thatconclusion on our part, that there is no question thatwhat they said in that opinion does reflect the Iowa EqualProtection Clause and the result that they reached will beand -- and can be found on the basis of this opinion to bethe result under the Iowa clause?MR. McCORMICK: Yes, Your Honor. We --QUESTION: So that what we do will make nodifference in the -- in the ultimate result in this case. MR. McCORMICK: If the Iowa Supreme Court, ifthis case were remanded, determines through the use of thesame analysis, the same result --QUESTION: Unless they change their rationale,there is no question, as I understand it, on the basis ofthis opinion what the result will be. Is that correct?MR. McCORMICK: Well, it -- I sure hope so.QUESTION: I mean, you're going to -- yes. Imean, that's what I --QUESTION: They can't blame it on us. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC QUESTION: No, that's quite right.QUESTION: I mean, right now they're blaming iton us, and if they want to take the blame themselves --how -- how are they appointed? Are they appointed orelected?MR. McCORMICK: They're through a Missouri Planappointed, Your Honor. QUESTION: Missouri Plan appointed.QUESTION: Well, the Supreme Court of Iowa in --in its opinion in this case said that the Iowa EqualProtection Clause and the Federal clause were the same orsubject to the same analysis, didn't they?MR. McCORMICK: Yes, Your Honor. QUESTION: And I suppose if we decide that it'swrong on the Federal section, it goes back to the Supreme Court of Iowa, they could just as easily say, well, our --our State equal protection follows Federal equalprotection. If the Supreme Court of the United Statessays the Federal is one, we're going to follow theFederal. do.MR. McCORMICK: We think that the court has --QUESTION: It's not foreordained what they willMR. McCORMICK: No. You're -- you're right,Your Honor. I'm just -- th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC QUESTION: So you think -- you think that isopen to them --MR. McCORMICK: I think that --QUESTION: -- the way -- the way they wrote it.MR. McCORMICK: Oh, I think so. I think itwould be available to the Iowa court.QUESTION: Well, they'd have to eat their words.MR. McCORMICK: Yes, Your Honor. QUESTION: I mean, they'd have to say we'rechanging our law. MR. McCORMICK: That's right. QUESTION: And I doubt that this is the first --is this the first case in which they've said we -- wefollow Federal law on equal protection?MR. McCORMICK: No, Your Honor. QUESTION: I didn't think so. MR. McCORMICK: In fact, there are cases whereour court, in applying exactly the same analysis that thisCourt has done, has reached different results. We haveBierkamp against Rogers in our brief in which our courtinvalidated the Iowa --QUESTION: Judges don't like to eat their words.MR. McCORMICK: We're hopeful.QUESTION: But as I understand it, they didn'tsay, we follow the Feds. They said, they are identical. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC MR. McCORMICK: Well, what they said is thescope and the import of the two constitutional provisionsare the same. Actually part of that -- if one looks atthe history in Iowa, there's an old case, case, Stateagainst Fairmont Creamery. The Iowa court for years ininterpreting the Iowa equal protection provision nevermade any reference to Federal law. And that case, for thefirst time in , cited a couple of cases from thisCourt and said our decisions are in harmony with thedecisions of the United States Supreme Court.I believe the evolution shows and history showsthat what the court has done since then is forconvenience, because of the availability of the precedentof this Court, said we use the same analysis. And we --we do the same thing in antitrust law. We do the same thing in civil rights law, even though we have somestatutory differences. But the court is still free to arrive at adifferent result under that analysis, and in this casecertainly the court arrived at the decision that it didnot only under the Federal Constitution but the Stateconstitution. QUESTION: It would mean they were wrong twice,both in their interpretation of Federal law and also intheir interpretation of Iowa law, right? th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC MR. McCORMICK: I don't believe so, Your Honor,because I think what they have said is that they use thesame analysis. They don't say the same result isforeordained. This -- our court, for example, doesn'tfollow the Lyon case on the issue of the good faithexception to the exclusionary rule. The court has beenindependent, treated State grounds as being adequate andindependent in appropriate cases, even though generally,as it said here, it tracks with the Federal cases undersimilar provisions. One thing I'd like to mention to you because Ithink it is a little bit of a misinterpretation of realityto suggest that these riverboats were created in Iowa to-- to sit on our border rivers. The statute involved andthe implementing regulations will allow a riverboat in Iowa on any river in Iowa, on any lake in Iowa, or on anyreservoir. And -- and there is, in fact, as the recordshows, a riverboat on a landlocked lake in southern Iowasuch that for comparison purposes, comparing theseracetracks, two of which are in river cities, and --actually all three of them in river cities, but two ofthem in river cities where there were also riverboats atthe time of this --QUESTION: How do you get the boat to thelandlocked lake? th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC (Laughter.) MR. McCORMICK: It's an interesting process. One either builds it there or carries it with --QUESTION: Humphrey Bogart. Humphrey Bogartgets it there I think. (Laughter.) MR. McCORMICK: Yes. It's African Queen. And the notion that there is any particularnavigation or -- or sailing involved with these -- withthese methods of housing gambling activities is -- is moreimaginary than real. I appreciate very much your attention. Webelieve that this Court in reviewing past State courtequal protection decisions and more recently in the -- inthe tax area in Williams against Vermont and Hooper against Bernalillo County has -- has respected the -- thedeterminations that have been made by the State courts asto what legislative intent was, as we ask the Court to doin this case, and in those cases, and applying -- afterthat threshold determination, applying equal protectionanalysis, found the statutes under a rational basisanalysis did not comport with equal protection. We thinkthis is a case where the record will support this Court infinding that the Iowa Supreme Court got it right and thatthe State and Solicitor General have it wrong under this th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC record. Thank you. QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. McCormick. Mr. Miller -- General Miller, you have four --REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF THOMAS J. MILLERON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERMR. MILLER: I would just point out thatMinnesota v. Clover Leaf Creamery Company is the -- is thecase where this Court decided that in -- in a case beforethis Court that comes from a State court, that the Federalprocess, the Federal analysis applies, and that the totalwork, the total decisionmaking done by the State court isreviewable here, so much so that in that case theyreversed a factual finding in -- in the court. I would emphasize too that -- that the Iowa Supreme Court has said that -- that the analysis is -- is-- always is the same between the State provision and --and the Federal provision, and has only departed, as amatter of result, only one time, the Bierkamp case, in the years that the two provisions existed at the sametime.With that, I would respond to any questions thatyou might have or -- or conclude by asking you to upholdthe constitutionality of this -- of this act because thereare multiple legitimate State interests developed by th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC rational speculation to support the legislation. Thankyou. Miller.CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: Thank you, GeneralThe case is submitted. (Whereupon, at : p.m., the case in theabove-entitled matter was submitted.) th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC 