 IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XJOHN GEDDES LAWRENCE AND TYRON GARNER, Petitioners :::v. TEXAS. : No. -:- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XWashington, D.C.Wednesday, March , The above-entitled matter came on for oralargument before the Supreme Court of the United States at: a.m.APPEARANCES:PAUL M. SMITH, ESQ., Washington, DC; on behalf of the Petitioners.CHARLES A. ROSENTHAL, ESQ., District Attorney, HarrisCounty Houston, Tex.; on behalf of Texas. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC C O N T E N T SORAL ARGUMENT OF PAUL M. SMITH, ESQOn behalf of the Petitioners CHARLES A. ROSENTHAL, JR.On behalf of Texas REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OFPAUL M. SMITH, ESQOn behalf of the Petitioners PAGE th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC P R O C E E D I N G S(: a.m.)CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: We'll hear argumentnext in No. -, John Geddes Lawrence and Tyron Garnerv. Texas. Mr. Smith. ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAUL M. SMITHON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERSMR. SMITH: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it pleasethe Court. The State of Texas in this case claims the rightto criminally punish any unmarried adult couple forengaging in any form of consensual sexual intimacy thatthe State happens to disapprove of. It further claims that there's no constitutional problem raised by a criminal statute that is directed notjust at conduct, but at a particular group of people, alaw that criminalizes forms of sexual intimacy only forsame-sex couples and not for anyone else in the State whohas -- has the right to make a free choice to engage inthe identical conduct. Petitioners are two adults who were arrested ina private home and criminally convicted simply becausethey engaged in one of the forms of sexual intimacy thatis on the banned list in the State of Texas for same-sex th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC couples. They bring two constitutional claims to theCourt today. First, among the fundamental rights that areimplicit in our concept of order of liberty, must be theright of all adult couples, whether same-sex or not, to befree from unwarranted State intrusion into their personaldecisions about their preferred forms of sexualexpression. Second, there's no legitimate and rationaljustification under the Equal Protection Clause for a lawthat regulates forms of sexual intimacy that are permittedin the State only for same-sex couples, thereby creating akind of a second class citizenship to that group ofpeople. QUESTION: On your substantive due processsubmission, Mr. Smith, certainly, the kind of conduct we're talking about here has been banned for a long time. Now you point to a trend in the other direction, whichwould be fine if you're talking about the EighthAmendment, but I think our case is like Glucksberg, say,if you're talking about a right that is going to besustained, it has to have been recognized for a long time. And that simply isn't so.MR. SMITH: The Court's cases, Mr. ChiefJustice, say that history is a starting point, not the endpoint of the analysis. And I think that it's important to th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC look at history as a whole and one of the errors that Ithink that the Court made in Bowers v. Hardwick was onlylooking at the issue in terms of homosexual sodomy and notlooking at the issue in general terms, which is the rightof everyone to decide for themselves about consensualprivate sexual intimacy. If you look at the history as awhole, you find a much more complicated picture. First ofall, you find that sodomy was regulated going back to thefounding for everyone and indeed the laws in the thcentury didn't focus on same-sex couples, they focused onparticular --QUESTION: Well, you're getting to your equalprotection argument now. Let's -- let's separate the two. The first is, your -- your -- your fundamental rightargument, which has nothing to do with equal protection? MR. SMITH: Well, Your Honor --QUESTION: So the same-sex/other-sex aspectdoesn't come into it --MR. SMITH: I think it does come into it,because if you're going to suggest that the state of thelaw on the books in the th century is the touchstone youhave to take into account that in the th century atleast on the face of the law married couples wereregulated in terms of their forms of sexual intimacy thatwere created for them. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC QUESTION: It may well be, but so were same-sexcouples. MR. SMITH: Indeed, they all were, Your Honor. QUESTION: So all same-sex couples could not --could not perform this act lawfully. What more do youneed than that? It was prohibited. When you go beyondthat and say, oh, but it was also prohibited for -- forother sex couples, you're getting into an equal protectionargument, it seems to me, not a fundamental rightargument. MR. SMITH: I guess I'm suggesting Mr. --Justice Scalia, that it's been conceded here by thisState, it was conceded by the State of Georgia yearsago, that married couples can't be regulated as a matterof substantive due process in their personal sexual expression in the home. That means that the state of thelaw on the books in the th century can't be the decidingfactor. it. QUESTION: They conceded it. I haven't concededMR. SMITH: Your Honor. That may well be true. I was -- I was working with the assumption that there maybe Justices who -- of the view that married couples dohave such a right and I am suggesting that the real issuehere is whether that fundamental right extends outside the th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC marital context into other unmarried couples who formbonds and have -- and -- for whom sexual intimacy plays anequally important role in their lives. QUESTION: Were you talking specifically aboutthis Eisenstadt against Baird where there was an unmarriedcouple -- while there was an unmarried person and theconduct in question would have been perhaps in the thcentury, early th century, criminal? Are you talkingabout fornication? MR. SMITH: Yes, Justice Ginsburg. I think theCourt in -- has moved from Griswold to Eisenstadt -- hasmoved in the contraception area outside of the maritalcontext to the unmarried context, certainly the right --the qualified right to abortion applies to unmarriedpeople, as well as married people. And I think that the Court in -- in looking at this issue of the scope of thefundamental right to make choices about sexual intimacyought to take into account not just the state of law onthe books in the th century but a couple of otherfactors, one the change in enforcement in the last years because the Court's fundamental rights cases all dolook at current laws, as well as th century law and alsoeven in the th century, the fact that there's no recordof active enforcement of these laws against conduct -- ofadults consensual occurring in the private setting and th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC that's true for married couples, it's true for different-sex couples who weren't married, it's true for same-sexcouples. The enforcement of the sodomy laws of thiscountry going back to the founding involves coercion, itinvolves children. It involves public activity. Itdoesn't involve the kind of conduct that's at issue here. So you really have a tradition of respect forthe privacy of couples in their -- in their home, goingback to the founding and I think then what began to happenin was a recognition that we should take thattradition and -- and turn it into positive law on thebooks. And so you now had three quarters of the Stateswho no longer regulate this conduct for anyone based on arecognition that it's not consistent with our basic American values about the relationship between theindividual and the State. QUESTION: Well, it depends on what you mean byour basic American values, to revert to what the ChiefJustice was suggesting earlier. Really what's at issue inthis case is whether we're going to adhere to -- in thefirst part of the case, not the equal protection aspect. It's whether we're going to adhere to what -- what we saidin -- in Glucksberg, mainly that before we find asubstantive due process right, a fundamental liberty, we th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC have to assure ourselves that that liberty was objectivelydeeply rooted in this Nation's history and tradition. That's what we said in Glucksberg and we've saidit in other cases. Or are we going to depart from thatand go to the approach that we've adopted with regard tothe Eighth Amendment, which is it evolves and changes in-- in social values will justify a new perception of whatis called unusual punishment. Now, why should we -- why should we slip intothe second mode? I'm -- I mean, suppose all the Stateshad laws against flagpole sitting at one time, you know,there was a time when it was a popular thing and probablyannoyed a lot of communities, and then almost all of themrepealed those laws. Does that make flagpole sitting a fundamental right? MR. SMITH: No, Your Honor, but the Court'sdecisions don't look just at history, they look at the --at the function that a particular claimed freedom plays inthe lives of real people. That's why contraception becamean issue. That's why abortion became an issue. QUESTION: I don't know what you mean by thefunction it plays in the lives of real people. MR. SMITH: The Court has said that --QUESTION: Any law stops people from doing what th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC they really want to do. MR. SMITH: The Court has said that it's goingto use reasoned judgment to identify a realm of personalliberty that involves matters of central and core to how aperson defines their own lives, and relates to key otherpeople. It's about moral upbringing of children in thehome. It's about procreation or nonprocreation in yoursexual relations with your mate. It's about basicquestions of what kind of a family you're going to livewith and other intimate associations. QUESTION: Well, you say it's about procreationor nonprocreation, but none of the cases that you havetalked about involved nonprocreation, did they? MR. SMITH: They certainly involved the right to decide to engage in sexual relations with -- whilepreventing procreation, that's what -- that's whatGriswold and Eisenstadt and Carey all say you have a rightto do. That there's a right to decide whether to bear andbeget children and then that right resides with unmarriedpeople as much as it resides with married people. And I submit to you that it's illogical,fundamentally illogical to say that an unmarried couplehas a right free of State intrusion to decide whether ornot to have procreative sex or nonprocreative sex, but th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC doesn't have the right to be free from State intrusion --free from a law that says you can't have any sexualintimacy at all. There's a -- there's a jagged piecemissing from the edifice of this Court's substantivefundamental rights jurisprudence. QUESTION: It doesn't say you can't have -- youcan't have any sexual intimacy. It says you cannot havesexual intimacy with a person of the same sex. MR. SMITH: This particular law does that, yes,Your Honor, but certainly our -- our submission is thatfornication laws and -- and laws involving sodomyregulation more broadly would be equally unconstitutional,because they involve --QUESTION: But your position, as I understandit, is even if you take the narrowest view of Glucksberg and even if you say there's got to be a positivehistorical sanction, that in fact there is no historical-- no substantial historical evidence to the contrarybecause, A, the -- the sodomy laws were not enforcedagainst consensual activity historically and B, they werenot aimed at homosexual as opposed to sodomy in general? MR. SMITH: Right. QUESTION: Is that -- your historical point, yousay even if I accept your argument, I should win? MR. SMITH: Yes, Your Honor. I think first of th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC all that the positive law, the law on the books proves toomuch because it intruded right into the marital bedroomand that the record of enforcement which may be moreinformative actually supports us rather than supportingthe notion that this is something that can be regulated. QUESTION: What do you mean by the record ofenforcement, that there were -- that what happened in thiscase was an accidental intrusion of the police? Theydidn't come into the bedroom looking for people conductingillicit sexual relations? They were there for anotherreason and happened to discover these -- these men in thatconduct. What do you mean by lack of enforcement? Thepolice have not gone around knocking on bedroom doors tosee if anyone -- I mean -- this is not the kind of a crime that the police go around looking for, but do you have anyevidence to show that when they -- when they found itbeing committed, they turned a blind eye to it and did notprosecute it? MR. SMITH: The evidence we have is the -- isthe absence of reported cases discussing arrests for thatkind of conduct. QUESTION: Well, that's because it's -- it's anact committed in private, and -- and the police respectthe privacy of -- of one's home, of one's bedroom, and so th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC they don't investigate and find it. But it seems to me what you would need isevidence that when the police discovered this matter, theysaid, oh, well, these are not laws that we enforce. Idon't see any evidence of that sort. MR. SMITH: Certainly it seems to us there's asignificance to the fact that it has never been treatedas, for example, drug use in the home has been treated. And people do -- the police obviously do actively seek toinfiltrate homes to find that kind of activity, it's beentreated in a categorically different way. But perhaps --QUESTION: To what extent can you characterizeit? I mean, the ACLU brief has a lot of evidence alongthis line. I -- and it seemed to me they want tocharacterize it as saying that the history has gone exactly the opposite direction than what's been suggested. But if you go back to colonial times really, the laws notonly were different but look at the prosecutions. Andthey did prosecute people for sex crimes. But they didn'tprosecute people for same-sex crimes. And then if you goacross the history, it's only recently that people havebeen prosecuted for same-sex crimes. Is that a faircharacterization? What is the real record? MR. SMITH: The argument about th centuryenforcement is that they didn't prosecute anyone for th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC private and consensual crimes involving adults, that theyworried about children, they worried about publicactivity, they worried about coercion, but that theydidn't worry about same-sex or different-sex sodomy. Nowas to the equal protection point which I think I shouldget to in my remaining time. This is a statute which inaddition to intruding into that area of importantfundamental protections, limits its focus just to onesmall minority of the people of the State of Texas. Itsays that these specified forms of sexual intimacy calleddeviate sexual intercourse are illegal only for same-sexcouples and not for anyone else in the State of Texas. QUESTION: Well, what about a statute thatcovered both? MR. SMITH: Well, I think that would be unconstitutional under my first point, Your Honor. QUESTION: Right. MR. SMITH: I think there is a multiple --multiply unconstitutional statute, because it does thesecond thing as well, it says that --QUESTION: Well, if the statute covered both,would there be an equal protection argument? MR. SMITH: If there was a record of enforcementalmost exclusively as to same-sex couples, I think therewould be potential constitutional problems there, but the th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC statutory language itself would not involve an equalprotection problem of the same sort that we're dealingwith here.QUESTION: Mr. Smith, aren't there a lot ofstatutes like that? Aren't there statutes in many Statesabout adultery that don't cover sexual relations of one ofthe married couple with someone else of the same sex? Arethey unconstitutional because of denial of equalprotection? MR. SMITH: I don't know whether statutesactually are written that way, Your Honor. The point Iwould make is that when a statute --QUESTION: What about rape laws? There are --there are rape laws that -- that only apply to -- tomale/female rape.MR. SMITH: That may be as well. I think --QUESTION: You think that they'reunconstitutional? MR. SMITH: I didn't suggest that they'reunconstitutional. My point is that when a statute islimited to one particular group of people, particularly aminority of people in the State, that that limitationitself has to be justified under equal protection, thatthat's a classification of people, not merely a definitionof conduct. And that if the -- if the justification of th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC the line that was drawn here is -- is insufficient as amatter of mere rationale basis analysis. Because --QUESTION: I don't understand that. Suppose theState has a rape law that -- that, you know, that reallyrequires the penetration of the female sex organ by --which is the classic common-law definition of rape, and ithas no -- no law of -- about homosexual rape. You thinkthat that law would be unconstitutional? MR. SMITH: I think it would have to bejustified by the State. They may well come in withevidence that this is not a problem that needs to beaddressed or that the victims are more able to protectthemselves, they may have -- they may have --QUESTION: One step at a time? This is morecommon? This is -- or this is something that we find more -- more -- more -- more odious? MR. SMITH: Well, the one thing that I submit,the Court, the State should not be able to come in to sayis we are going to permit ourselves the majority of peoplein our society full -- full and free rein to make thesedecisions for ourselves but there's one minority of peopledon't get that decision and the only reason we're going togive you is we want it that way. We want them to beunequal in their choices and their freedoms, because wethink we should have the right to commit adultery, to th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC commit fornication, to commit sodomy and the State shouldhave no basis for intruding into our lives but we don'twant those people over there to have the same right. QUESTION: I mean you you can put it that way,but society always -- in a lot of its laws makes thesemoral judgments, you can make it sound very puritanical,the -- you know, the laws -- the laws against bigamy, Imean, who are you to tell me that I can't have more thanone wife? You blue-nose bigot. Sure. You can make itsound that way, but these are laws dealing with publicmorality. They've always been on the book, nobody hasever told them they're unconstitutional simply becausethere are moral perceptions behind them. Why is thisdifferent from bigamy? MR. SMITH: First of all, the first law that's appeared on the books in the States of this country thatsingles out only same sex sodomy appeared in the 's andthe 's and it did not -- and it does not go way back,this kind of discrimination. Now, bigamy involvesprotection of an institution that the State creates forits own purposes and there are all sorts of potentialjustifications about the need to protect the institutionof marriage that are different in kind from thejustifications that could be offered here involving merelya criminal statute that says we're going to regulate these th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC peoples behaviors, we include a criminal law which iswhere the most heightened form of -- of people protectionanalysis ought to apply. This case is very much likeMcLaughlin, Your Honor, where you had a statute that saidwe're going to give an specially heightened penalty tocohabitation, but only when it involves a white personwith a black person. That interracial cohabitation isdifferent, and the State there made the argument we'remerely regulating a particular form of conduct, and that'sa different form of conduct than -- than intro racialcohabitation. And this Court very clearly said no. You're classifying people. And that classification has tobe justified. And this Court at many times said a meredisapproval of one group of people, whether it be the hippie communes in Moreno or the mentally retarded inCleburne, or indeed gay people. QUESTION: But all -- almost all laws are basedon disapproval of either some people or some sort ofconduct. That's why people legislate. MR. SMITH: And what this Court does under theequal protection clause is -- is -- standard as a bullwork against arbitrary government when the -- when thereis no rational justification for the line that is drawn. QUESTION: Well, do you -- do you -- in order to th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC win under an equal protection argument, do you have toapply some sort of heightened scrutiny? MR. SMITH: We certainly do not think we do,Your Honor. We think this fails rational basis scrutiny,just as the law did in Romer, in Cleburne, in Moreno, inEisenstadt, all of those laws were thrown out underrational basis scrutiny, because the State basicallydidn't come up with anything other than we want it thatway. We want these people to be excluded. We'd haddistaste for them. We disapprove of them. It's meredisapproval, or hostility, however historically based, isnot sufficient. And certainly even applying the rationalbasis --QUESTION: We said the opposite in Bowers,didn't we? Overrule bounds essentially on that point? MR. SMITH: Well, certainly Bowers is not anequal protection case and it didn't involve this kind ofdiscrimination. QUESTION: The equal protection and on to the --MR. SMITH: No I was still talking about thelevel of scrutiny under equal protection, Your Honor. QUESTION: Maybe you ought to hold up one handso I'll know which? MR. SMITH: It's hard when you have these twopoints to shift back and forth. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC QUESTION: I understand. We had the sameproblem in the last case --MR. SMITH: Three weeks ago, yes, Your Honor. The -- but the Court in applying even therational basis standard has not been insensitive to thereality of what the world is like, and to the fact thatsome groups of -- some classifications tend to beinvolving minorities that have had histories ofdiscrimination against them and that the overall effect ofsome line-drawing can be very harmful. In Romer itself,the Court looked at the actual effects of the -- of theamendment in the Constitution and all of the many ways inwhich it caused harm. Here you have a statute that whileit -- while it purports to just to regulate sexualbehavior, has all sorts of collateral effects on people. People in the States who still regulate sodomy everydaythey're denied visitation to their own children, they'redenied custody of children, they're denied publicemployment. They're denied private employment, becausethey're labeled as criminals merely because they've beenidentified as homosexuals. And that we submit --QUESTION: If you prevail, Mr. Smith, and thislaw is struck down, do you think that would also mean thata State could not prefer heterosexuals to homosexuals toteach kindergarten? th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC MR. SMITH: I think the issue of -- ofpreference in the educational context would involve verydifferent criteria, Your Honor, very differentconsiderations, the State would have to come in with somesort of a justification. QUESTION: A justification is the same that'salluded to here, disapproval of homosexuality. MR. SMITH: Well, I think it would be highly --highly problematic, such a -- such a justification. QUESTION: Yes, it would? MR. SMITH: If that were the only justificationthat could be offered, there was not some showing thatthere would be any more concrete harm to the children inthe school. QUESTION: Only that the children might -- might be induced to -- to follow the path of homosexuality. Andthat would not be -- that would the not be enough? MR. SMITH: Well, I -- I think the State has tohave a greater justification for its discrimination thanwe prefer pushing people towards heterosexuality. Thatamounts to the same thing as disapproval of people'schoices in this area and there has to be a more -- morereasons and justifiable distinction than simply we preferthis group of people, the majority, instead of this groupof people, the minority. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC Justice Jackson in the railway express case saidvery eloquently that the equal protection clause is animportant bulwark against arbitrary government becauseit's there to make sure that legislators don't avoidpolitical retribution by imposing onerous burdens only onone minority, but that in fact the majority will live bythe same rules as purports to impose on everybody else. QUESTION: Mr. Smith before you continue down tothe equal protection line. Your first argument was theright of personal privacy in one's most intimate sexualrelations, you were asked and you didn't get a chance toanswer because you went back on your equal protectiontrack, you are asking the Court to overrule Bowers againstHardwick. I thought that was very --MR. SMITH: Yes, Your Honor. We're asking you to overrule it and we thinkthat the right of -- of the fundamental right of unmarriedpeople to make these choices about private adultconsensual intimacy applies for different sex couples aswell as same sex couples and that Bowers was wrong foressentially three reasons, first it posed the question toonarrowly by focusing just on homosexual sodomy, which isjust one of the moral choices that couples ought tohave -- that people ought to have available to them. And second in its analysis of history, which I th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC think I explained already and third, and perhaps mostimportantly, in the assumptions that the Court made in about the realities of gay lives and gayrelationships, the Court simply asserted in the Bowerscase that there's no showing that has been demonstratedbetween the opportunity to engage in this conduct andfamily. And certainly while it may not have been shownin that case or even apparent to the Court in , Isubmit it has to be apparent to the Court now that thereare gay families that family relationships areestablished, that there are hundreds of thousands ofpeople registered in the Census in the census whohave formed gay families, gay partnerships, many of themraising children and that for those people, the opportunity to engage in sexual expression as they will inthe privacy of their own homes performs much the samefunction that it does in the marital context, that youcan't protect one without the other, that it doesn't makesense to draw a line there and that you should protect itfor everyone. That this is a fundamental matter ofAmerican values. So those are the three reasons we ask you tooverrule Bowers v. Hardwick as to the fundamental rightsaspect of the case and that we think that that is an area th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC where the Court should go -- should go back and reconsideritself. The Court has now left open for nearly yearsthe question of whether anybody outside has a right -- hasa privacy right to engage in consensual sexual intimacy inthe privacy of their home. And I submit to you, you know, while the Courthas left that unanswered, the American people have movedon to the point where that right is taken for granted foreveryone. Most Americans would be shocked to find out thattheir decision to engage in sexual intimacy with anotherperson in their own home might lead to a knock on the dooras occurred here and a criminal prosecution. And that -- that reality is something that the Court needs to take into account and certainly in sodoing, it shouldn't -- in constructing its fundamentalrights edifice draw distinctions between gay couples andother couples. QUESTION: You probably say the same aboutadultery, you think adultery laws are unconstitutional? MR. SMITH: I think that the state has --QUESTION: I mean think people probably feel thesame way about that, you know. It may not be a nice thingto do, but I certainly don't expect a knock on the door th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC and go to jail for it. MR. SMITH: Your Honor, adultery is a verydifferent case. It involves the State interests inprotecting the marital contract which people voluntarilytake on. And -- and so in assessing. QUESTION: Why is the marital contract importantto the State? Because it's the source of -- of the nextgeneration, right? MR. SMITH: Sure, the State is --QUESTION: And you think that there's not someof the same thinking behind the conscious choice of theState to favor heterosexual and marital sex overhomosexual sex? MR. SMITH: Well, I can understand a law whichsays we're going to attempt to channel heterosexuals towards marriage by making them -- making it illegal forthem to have sex without marriage. I can't understandthat law under -- under that kind of rational which onlyregulates same sex couples and says you can't have sex buteveryone else has a right to do that. As for adultery and all of the other parade ofhorribles which people have raised in their briefs, itseems to me you've got to look at the individual interestsand the State interests and their dramatically differentin all of those cases incest, prostitution, all of th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC these -- bestiality, all of these things either there'svery little individual interests or there's veryheightened State interest or both, in all of those cases,so the idea that by recognizing the right of all adultcouples to make choices like this in their own home theCourt is going to open up a whole can of worms, I submit,is correct. If I could reserve the balance of my time, YourHonor. CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: Very well, Mr. Smith. Mr. Rosenthal, we'll hear from you. ORAL ARGUMENT OF CHARLES A. ROSENTHAL, JR.ON BEHALF OF TEXASMR. ROSENTHAL: Give me just a moment. Mr. ChiefJustice, and may it please the Court. The State humbly submits that enforcement ofTexas Penal Code Statute . does not violate the thAmendment of the Constitution because this Court has neverrecognized a fundamental right to engage in extramaritalsexual conduct and because there is a rational basis forthe statute sufficient to withstand equal protectionscrutiny. I'd like to begin with a brief discussion ofsubstantive due process. From a practitioner'sstandpoint, it appears that the jurisprudence of this th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC Court appears to resolve the means by which the Courtentertains a claim of novel protected liberty interests.Since the Constitution does not expresslyaddress the issue of privacy or of sexual conduct, we lookto the Court's precedents and to the history of ourpeople.If a historical, traditional analysis applies,it then serves as objective guideposts to guide thisCourt, as long as those ideals and laws do not infringe onfundamental rights. The Court has maintained that designation of aliberty interest is done -- not done with impunity. Butonly those interests that appear to be carefullyidentified asserted rights should be drawn and should beconsidered as liberty interests. The record in this case does not particularly show which rights the petitionersare asking to uphold.QUESTION: I -- I don't understand what you meanby that. Aren't we clear what right they're seeking touphold? MR. ROSENTHAL: No, sir, they're -- they'reasking for the right of homosexuals to engage inhomosexual conduct. QUESTION: Right. MR. ROSENTHAL: But there's nothing in the th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC record to indicate that these people are homosexuals. They're not homosexuals by definition if they commit oneact. It's our position that a heterosexual person canalso violate this code if they commit an act of deviatesexual intercourse with another of the same sex.QUESTION: Why aren't -- why aren't they seekingto vindicate the right of either homosexuals orheterosexuals to commit homosexual act? What differencedoes that make?MR. ROSENTHAL: The difference it makes is asthe -- as the record is set out, it does not really definethe issues such that the Court can actually give thepetitioners a -- a specific form of relief. QUESTION: But the -- the -- the statute, Texashas already decided that for us. It has called this homosexual conduct, so whether it's a heterosexual personor a homosexual person, the crime is engaging inhomosexual conduct. MR. ROSENTHAL: That's correct. QUESTION: You don't even have to get to the --as I understand it, you don't even have to get to thecharacterization of homosexual. The statute clearlydefines certain acts committed by or together withindividuals of the same sex and that's your class, isn'tit? th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC MR. ROSENTHAL: Yes, it is. QUESTION: What more do we need? MR. ROSENTHAL: We're -- the class actually ispeople who violate the act, not classes of individualsbased upon sexual orientation. QUESTION: Well, I -- I can see that your pointmay have some relevance on the equal protection side ofthe equation, some relevance, I don't think it may becontrolling. It -- it doesn't seem to meet the argumentsthat's made under the substantive liberty part of theargument with reference to Bowers.MR. ROSENTHAL: I beg your pardon? QUESTION: It doesn't meet the petitioners'argument with respect to Bowers versus Hardwick, whichthey say should be overruled. MR. ROSENTHAL: Well, of course we -- we believethat Bowers versus Hardwick is -- is good law. It'ssubstantial law and that this Court should not overruleBowers --QUESTION: But that question is certainlyclearly before us. I mean this is your statute. Youconvicted the people for these acts and you have to be --you have to defend it. MR. ROSENTHAL: Yes, sir. And it's our positionthat Bowers versus Hardwick is still good law, that th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC there's nothing that's changed about the fundamentalliberties or the -- or the history or traditions of ourcountry that should make the analysis in Bowers incorrectany longer. The petitioner also claims that the mores of ournation have changed to the point where physical homosexualintimacy is now part of the fabric of American values. And it's our position this cannot be correct. Even if youinfer that various States acting through their legislativeprocess have repealed sodomy laws, there is no protectedright to engage in extrasexual -- extramarital sexualrelations, again, that can trace their roots to history orthe traditions of this nation.QUESTION: Their basic argument, I think --QUESTION: I -- I'm sorry. I didn't get that argument. I thought you were going to say -- you wereresponding to the argument that the morals haven'tchanged, or that the morals have changed so thathomosexuality is now approved. And you respond to that bysaying that there's no tradition? I mean, that's --that's a totally different argument from tradition. Imean, the -- the argument is tradition doesn't matter. MR. ROSENTHAL: Well, history -- tradition doesnot matter in terms of whether or not it -- it can be aprotected liberty interest. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC QUESTION: Why -- why do you think that thepublic perception of -- of homosexual acts has -- has notchanged? Do you think it hasn't? MR. ROSENTHAL: The public perception of it? QUESTION: Yes, yes. Do you think there'spublic approval of it? MR. ROSENTHAL: Of homosexuals, but not ofhomosexuality activity.QUESTION: What do you base that on?MR. ROSENTHAL: I beg your pardon? QUESTION: What do you base that on? MR. ROSENTHAL: Well, even --QUESTION: I mean I think there ought to be someevidence which -- which you can bring forward? MR. ROSENTHAL: Sure. QUESTION: Like perhaps the failure of theFederal Congress to add the sexual preference to the listof protected statuses against which private individualsare not permitted to discriminate, that addition has beensought several times and it's been rejected by the FederalCongress, hasn't it? MR. ROSENTHAL: Yes, sir, and -- and inaddition, what I was trying to say by the fact thatvarious States have changed their position on sodomy,they've done it through the legislative process. And th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC that's where we believe this belongs, is in the StateHouse of Texas, not this Court. QUESTION: Yes, but I thought you wereresponding to the argument that the public perceptionhasn't changed. That there still is -- is a publicdisapproval of homosexual acts. And you can't establish that by saying that theStates have repealed their homosexual laws.MR. ROSENTHAL: Well, I think it goes back towhether the -- where -- whether people in Texas and peoplein the other States that had this law on their booksactually accepted through their representative government. I think it comes down to the -- the actual people who --who determine the consensus and mores of the State orthe -- or the elected legislators. QUESTION: Might there be a difference betweenthe people's willingness to prosecute something criminallyand the people's embracing of that as a fundamental right?MR. ROSENTHAL: Well, certainly. And justbecause someone has decriminalized sodomy doesn't meanthat they embraced that practice as something that oughtto be taught in the schools as was mentioned before.QUESTION: But the argument of -- of Bowers, tooverrule Bowers is not directly related to sodomy. It'srelated, but not directly. It's that people in their own th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC bedrooms, which have their right to do basically what theywant, it's not hurting other people. And they -- theother side -- says Bowers understated the importance ofthat. It got the history wrong. It didn't understand therelationship of the sodomy to families and in addition,Bowers has proved to be harmful to thousands and thousandsand thousands of people, if not because they're going tobe prosecuted, because they fear it -- they might be,which makes it a possible instrument of repression in thehands of the prosecutors. Now, that's the kind ofargument that they're making. Harmful in consequence,wrong in theory, understating the constitutional value.MR. ROSENTHAL: All right --QUESTION: All right, now how do you respond tothat? MR. ROSENTHAL: Okay. First of all, let me --let me correct something that -- that's very minor at thispoint, but the allegation was made in petitioners'argument that people can -- convicted of homosexualconduct are banned from jobs and housing and all -- andall that kind of thing. In Texas, homosexual conduct is aclass C misdemeanor. That is, it is the lowestmisdemeanor -- or the lowest prohibition that Texas has. QUESTION: That I didn't bring in in myquestion. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC MR. ROSENTHAL: Yes, sir. QUESTION: My question was, getting those sortof three or four basic points, I would like to hearyour -- your straight answer to those points --[Laughter.]QUESTION: -- because on their face, they're --I mean, I'm not -- not a criticism, I mean, directlyresponding, directly responding to the -- to the -- to thequestion. MR. ROSENTHAL: Well, it's our position that theline should be drawn at the marital bedroom, through whichwe can -- through the law enforcement or anyone elsecannot pass unless something illegal happens inside thatbedroom. QUESTION: Well, if this is drawing the line at the bedroom door, this case is inside the bedroom, notoutside. That's the statute makes criminal, to myunderstanding, of it what takes place within the bedroomthrough consent. Am I right about that? MR. ROSENTHAL: You're right about that, but --QUESTION: And why isn't that something that theState has no business getting involved in --MR. ROSENTHAL: First of all, let me say --QUESTION: -- as long as it doesn't hurtanybody? th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC MR. ROSENTHAL: First of all, let me say thatconsent may be alleged in this case, but consent is notproven in the record in this case. There's -- there isnothing in the record that shows that people are capableof giving consent or that consent was, in fact, given, buteven given that, I -- I think that the -- that this Courthaving determined that there are certain kinds of conductthat it will accept and certain kinds of conduct it willnot accept may draw the line at the bedroom door of theheterosexual married couple because of the interest thatthis Court has that this Nation has and certainly that theState of Texas has for the preservation of marriage,families and the procreation of children. QUESTION: Does Texas permit same-sexadoptions -- two women or two men to adopt a child or to be foster parents? MR. ROSENTHAL: I don't know the answer to that,Justice. QUESTION: Well, in portraying what Texas seesas a family and distinguishing both married and unmarriedheterosexual people from homosexual people, those thingswouldn't go together if the State at the same time saidsame sex couples are qualified to raise a family. You canadopt children, you can be foster parents.You don't know what -- what the Texas law is on th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC that? MR. ROSENTHAL: I do not know what that Texaslaw -- what the Texas law says in that regard. QUESTION: I think it would be relevant to yourargument that they're making -- that Texas is making thedistinction between kinds of people who have familyrelationships and can be proper guardians of children andthose who can't. MR. ROSENTHAL: Well, again, Your Honor, we'renot saying that they can't be proper guardians and wecan't say that they can't raise children. That -- that'snot the issue. The issue --QUESTION: You're fairly certain that they can'tprocreate children, aren't you?[Laughter.]MR. ROSENTHAL: We are sure that they -- thatthey can't do that. But we're also not -- not penalizingtheir -- their status. We're penalizing only theparticular activity that those unmarried couples may havewith respect to whether they have sexual intimacies. QUESTION: Does Texas prohibit sexualintercourse between unmarried heterosexuals? MR. ROSENTHAL: Well, it used to. It does notdo that now, unless the sexual intimacy is in public orwhere someone might view -- th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC QUESTION: No, say in a -- a private situationlike this, it would not -- it would not be prohibited? MR. ROSENTHAL: It does not criminalize it, itdoes not condone it. QUESTION: What about adultery? MR. ROSENTHAL: I beg your pardon? QUESTION: What about adultery? MR. ROSENTHAL: Again, adultery is not penalizedin Texas, but it is certainly not condoned in Texas.[Laughter.]QUESTION: All right, so you said -- you saidprocreation, marriage and children, those are your threejustifications. Now from what you recently said, I don'tsee what it has to do with marriage, since, in fact,marriage has nothing to do with the conduct that either this or other statutes do or don't forbid. I don't seewhat it has to do with children, since, in fact, the gaypeople can certainly adopt children and they do. And Idon't see what it has to do with procreation, becausethat's the same as the children. All right. So -- so what is the justificationfor this statute, other than, you know, it's not what theysay on the other side, is this is simply, I do not likethee, Doctor Fell, the reason why I cannot tell.[Laughter.] th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC QUESTION: Now, what is aside -- aside fromthat? MR. ROSENTHAL: I think what -- what I'm sayingis -- and I had not gotten into the equal protectionaspect of the -- of the argument yet, but under the equalprotection argument, Texas has the right to set moralstandards and can set bright line moral standards for itspeople. And in the setting of those moral standards, Ibelieve that they can say that certain kinds of activitycan exist and certain kinds of activity cannot exist. QUESTION: Could they say, for example, it isagainst the law at the dinner table to tell really seriouslies to your family? MR. ROSENTHAL: Yes, they can make that a law,but there would be no rational basis for the law. QUESTION: Oh, really. It's very immoral. Imean, I know there's certainly -- it's certainly immoralto tell very serious harmful lies to your own family undercertain circumstances and around the dinner table, some ofthe worst things can happen.[Laughter.]But the -- the -- so Texas could go right inthere and any kind of morality that they think is justimmoral or bad, cheating, perhaps. What about rudeness,serious rudeness, et cetera? th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC MR. ROSENTHAL: Well, again, if -- if Texas didpass the law, it would have to -- have to show throughsome rational basis test that it's rationally related tosome State interest.QUESTION: Mr. Rosenthal, don't you think thatwhat laws a State may constitutionally pass has a lot todo with what laws it has always been thought that a Statecan constitutionally pass, so that if you have a -yeartradition of a certain type of law -- and I don't know ofa -year tradition of laws against lying at the dinnertable -- the presumption is that the State is within thebounds of -- of the Constitution to pass that law in -- asdeclaring what it has proscribed as contra bonos mores, aterm that's been in the common law from the beginning asagainst good morals, bigamy, adultery, all sorts of things like that, and isn't that determined pretty much on thebasis of what kind of laws the State has traditionallybeen allowed to pass? MR. ROSENTHAL: Certainly. And it goes -- itgoes to things as diverse as --QUESTION: I don't suppose you're going to arguethat Loving against Virginia was incorrectly decided, areyou? MR. ROSENTHAL: Oh, certainly not. QUESTION: And that was certainly a long th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC tradition that supported that --MR. ROSENTHAL: But it also violated afundamental right.QUESTION: And that's the issue here.[Laughter.] MR. ROSENTHAL: Yes, sir. And the fundamentalright that was asserted there is -- is a long-establishedfundamental right that we don't -- we don't treat racesdifferently because we think that one's inferior or westereotype someone --QUESTION: There was a constitutional textthere, wasn't there, with Loving versus Virginia. Ithought there was something about a Civil War and nodiscrimination on the basis of race. MR. ROSENTHAL: Yes, and the same with -- with the case that was cited from Florida. QUESTION: When -- when did Texas selecthomosexual sodomy as -- as a subject of specific criminalprohibition? MR. ROSENTHAL: Sodomy as a -- as a --QUESTION: My question --MR. ROSENTHAL: Yes, sir.QUESTION: Go ahead, but my question is --MR. ROSENTHAL: Yes, sir. QUESTION: -- is about sodomy among two adults th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC of the same sex? MR. ROSENTHAL: Yes, sir. And sodomy had -- hasa longstanding tradition of the history of Texas of sodomybeing against the law, however --QUESTION: When -- when was -- was the firststatute passed? I think years was mentioned. Wasthere a law in the books in ? MR. ROSENTHAL: No, I don't think Texas was aState back then.[Laughter.]QUESTION: It doesn't have to be -- it doesn'thave to --QUESTION: Territorial --QUESTION: It's a trick question, Mr. Rosenthal. Don't -- don't fall into that trap.[Laughter.]QUESTION: or the first date of the Texaslegislature's meeting, did they pass it at the -- at thefirst meeting of the legislature? MR. ROSENTHAL: Well, certainly in the -- in the Penal Code, the -- the kinds of activity that -- thatwere classified now as sodomy were against the law. However, I think to address your question --QUESTION: When did -- when did they single outhomosexual sodomy? th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC MR. ROSENTHAL: In , in the passage of the Penal Code. QUESTION: So the issue here doesn't have muchof a longstanding tradition specific to this statute, doesit? MR. ROSENTHAL: Well, not specific to -- notspecific to that statute, but it has a longstandingtradition in Texas as being something that should beproscribed and something that is regarded as immoral andunwholesome. QUESTION: Well, homosexual sodomy was unlawfulin Texas from when? There was not a statute addressedjust to that. It was addressed to sodomy in general, buthomosexual -- but homosexual sodomy included, and that lawgoes back how long? To ? MR. ROSENTHAL: To the -- to the time that Texaswas a republic, before it --QUESTION: But what about the statute which thisCourt I think once had to grapple with, people felt duringWorld War I that it was immoral to teach German in thepublic schools. So then would you say that the State hasevery right to do that, parents want their children tolearn German, but the schools forbid it? See, the hardquestion here is can the State, in fact, pass anythingthat it wants at all, because they believe it's immoral. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC If you were going to draw the line somewhere, I guess youmight begin to draw it when the person is involved insidehis own bedroom and not hurting anybody else. Now that --that now -- so you say it's morality. I -- I agree manypeople do believe that that's a question of morality. Many do not, but nonetheless, what can you add to whatyou're saying, other than simply asserting its morality? Because I don't think you think that the State could passanything in the name of morality? MR. ROSENTHAL: Certainly not. But it wouldhave -- any law that would pass would have to have somerational basis to the State interest. QUESTION: You've not given a rational basisexcept to repeat the word morality. QUESTION: Is the rational basis is that the State thinks it immoral just as the State thinks adulteryimmoral or bigamy immoral.QUESTION: Or teaching German.QUESTION: Well, that --[Laughter.] QUESTION: Maybe we should go through counsel,yes. QUESTION: Isn't the -- Mr. Rosenthal, isn't thethrust of Justice Breyer's question that when -- when theState criminalizes behavior as immoral, customarily what th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC it points to is not simply an isolated moral judgment orthe moral judgment alone, but it points to a moraljudgment which is backed up by some demonstration of harmto other people. We -- we've heard questions for example aboutharm to a -- a marital institution. It makes sense to saywhether you think the law is enforceable or not. It makessense to say that adultery threatens the -- the durabilityof a particular instance of marriage. What kind of harm to others can you point to inthis case to take it out of the category of simple moraldisapproval, per se? MR. ROSENTHAL: Well, part of the -- part of therationale for the law is to discourage similar conduct,that is, to discourage people who may be in jail together or want to experiment from doing the same kind of thingand I think -- and I think that the State can do that. People can harm themselves and still be -- and still haveit be against the law. But they can take drugs and dothat. QUESTION: Well, do you point to a kind of harmhere to an individual or to the individual's partner,which is comparable to the harm that results from the --the harm to the deterioration of the body and the mindfrom drug-taking? I mean, I don't see the parallel th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC between the two situations. MR. ROSENTHAL: Well, not -- not only do we saythat morality is a basis for this, but of course theantecedents have raised that there may also be healthconsiderations. I don't know whether there are or not. QUESTION: That is not the State's claim in anycase?MR. ROSENTHAL: That's not the State's claim,but I can't say that it's not true. Obviously this --this has --QUESTION: Did you read -- I don't know -- Ican't remember now who filed it, but there was one medicalbrief filed on that subject and the argument there wasthat, in fact, these laws are -- are directly antitheticalto health claim. Do you -- do you have any comment to make on that brief? MR. ROSENTHAL: Yes, sir. There was a law filedon behalf of the respondents that took exactly theopposite position. QUESTION: So the issue was open, so far as --as we're concerned that that would be your position, Itake it? MR. ROSENTHAL: Yes, sir, for each expertthere's an equal and opposite expert. QUESTION: But you're not saying the State of th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC Texas is doing this for -- to protect the actors who areinvolved in this? One can say the State is taking actionto see that people don't harm others or themselves. You're not suggesting that that's the reason for -- forthis particular law? MR. ROSENTHAL: Well, I think Texas has theright to prohibit certain conduct.QUESTION: But if that's the reason for it, whydoesn't Texas prohibit the conduct in a heterosexualrelationship? I mean, it doesn't seem to be any harmbecause if there were a harm, beyond moral disapproval,the law would not be restricted to homosexuals. MR. ROSENTHAL: Well, because heterosexualconduct is -- the same kinds of conduct -- and by the wayit's not distinguished, it's still called deviate sexual intercourse with heterosexuals. QUESTION: But it's not prohibited? MR. ROSENTHAL: But it's not prohibited. QUESTION: Yeah. MR. ROSENTHAL: But it also can lead to marriageand to procreation. And that's -- and that's a legitimateState interest. QUESTION: But -- but procreation -- many peoplewith the blessings of Texas can have sexual relations whoare unable to procreate, so I don't see how -- whatever th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC the line might have meant in times gone, it certainlyisn't true that sexual relations are for the purpose ofprocreation and anything that is not for that purpose isbeyond the pale. You can't make that distinction.MR. ROSENTHAL: No, but I think as a matter ofpublic policy, the State can make -- have -- can havepreferences -- and again it doesn't say that simplybecause heterosexual people can -- can have deviate sexualintercourse, the State approves it. There are just simplyother sanctions that the -- that the State may imply. I did want to briefly distinguish this case fromyour decision in Romer v. Evans. And obviously thedistinction there was -- was that the Colorado amendmentsought to classify people based on their orientation and not their conduct. And by so doing, they excluded acertain class of people from the political debate. Now,on the contrary, Texas welcomes all into the politicaldebate and -- in the last Texas legislature, fortunatelyour legislature meets only every other year, but in thelast Texas legislature, there was a hate crime statutepassed which made it a more heinous crime to make someonea victim of crime based upon their sexual orientation andit included all sexual orientations. It includedhomosexuals, bisexuals and heterosexuals, all, so I don't th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC think we can say across the board that there's some sortof Texas policy that we're trying to overall discriminateagainst -- against homosexuals as a group. QUESTION: Somebody wants to participate in thepolitical process, run for political office who ishomosexual and the charge is made on the other side don't-- don't vote for this person, this person is a lawbreaker, there is a closer connection to Romer in thatregard, isn't there? MR. ROSENTHAL: Well, that would be true, if itweren't that the historical fact that that's not in facttrue. That there have been people who have campaigned inTexas and have admitted their homosexuality and have beenelected to office. QUESTION: But the charge -- they could be charged as law-breakers. MR. ROSENTHAL: No, ma'am, they can't be chargedas law-breakers for having that orientation. They canonly be charged as law-breakers if they commit thatparticular act. And then, again, the State does not allowany disabilities to come from class C misdemeanor acts. I'm sure it's obvious to this Court that theissues of homosexual rights are highly emotional for thepetitioner in these quarters but equally anxious in thisCourt's -- for this Court's decision are those who are, th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC number one, concerned with the rights of States todetermine their own destiny, and, two, and possibly moreimportant, those persons who are concerned that theinvalidation of this little Texas statute would make --would make marriage law subject to constitutionalchallenge. Then again, how far behind that can there beother acts of sexual gratification brought forconstitutional challenge also. There's already movementsto lower the age limit of consent for children engaged insexual practices. And there are secondary effects,particularly in Texas law, where we are a common law stateand the common law is based upon community property sharedby both spouses. The State of Texas is asking this Courtto be mindful of the far-reaching aspects of your decision in this case, so as not to disenfranchise millionTexans who ought to have the right to participate inquestions having to do with moral issues. We ask you toaffirm the Texas Court of Appeals. CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: Thank you, Mr.Rosenthal. Mr. Smith, you have minutes remaining. REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF PAUL M. SMITH ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERSMR. SMITH: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice. I th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC just have a couple of points to make. I thought I mightaddress this question of what it was that we proved in therecord below and whether or not we have, as a result,adequately teed up the issues before the Court withouthaving put into evidence directly that this was anoncoercive act or a noncommercial act or a nonpublic actor things of that kind. Our position is that this is a criminal statutethat has only two elements, it has a list of particularkinds of sexual intimacy that you're not allowed to engagein and it they have to prove as well that the two peopleinvolved were of the same sex. There was a complaint that was filed that listedthose two elements. My clients pleaded no contest tothose two elements but said that there is an insufficient basis for imposing criminal liability on them, because,first of all, they invade fundamental rights and second ofall, because the law is discriminatory, while it'ssupposedly got a moral basis, it's a discriminatorymorality, a morality imposed only on one category ofcouples in a State which does not penalize in any wayadultery, fornication or sodomy for people of -- ofcouples that are different sex. Those are the arguments that were made and -- soour position is that that the statute is unconstitutional th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC both facially and as applied here, because the Statepurports to impose liability based on those two elementsalone and that they are constitutionally insufficientbases both for fundamental rights reasons and because it'sa discriminatory state.The other point I thought I might just addressfor the moment is the public health rationale which didn'tcome up before. Essentially, what the facts are -- and Ithink this comes out to a large extent, it's undisputed inthe amicus briefing -- the issue is not briefed in herebecause the Texas brief doesn't even attempt to make thisargument, but it is -- the facts are that if this was theline between safe and unsafe forms of sexual intimacy it'sas if the law cuts right across it. Regulating some ofthe most safe forms of sexual activity possible, including, for example, lots of safe sex -- same-sexactivity involving women and leaving completelyunregulated all sorts of forms of unsafe sexual activityinvolving different sex couples. So if there was ever a case of a law where thefit is egregiously improper and insufficient to justifythe law under the rational basis test, this would be sucha case. Unless the Court has further questions, thankyou very much. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: Thank you Mr. Smith.The case is submitted. (Whereupon, at : p.m., the case in theabove-entitled matter was submitted.) th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC 