 IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XGEORGIA, Petitioner ::v. : No. -JOHN ASHCROFT, ATTORNEY GENERAL, ET AL. ::- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XWashington, D.C.Tuesday, April , The above-entitled matter came on for oralargument before the Supreme Court of the United States at: a.m.APPEARANCES:DAVID F. WALBERT, ESQ., Atlanta, Georgia; on behalf of the Petitioner.MALCOLM L. STEWART, ESQ., Assistant to the SolicitorGeneral, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; onbehalf of the Federal Repondent.E. MARSHALL BRADEN, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf ofthe Private Intervenors. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC C O N T E N T SORAL ARGUMENT OF DAVID F. WALBERT, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioner MALCOLM L. STEWART, ESQ.On behalf of the Federal Respondent E. MARSHALL BRADEN, ESQ.On behalf of the Private Intervenors REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OFDAVID F. WALBERT, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioner PAGE th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC P R O C E E D I N G S(: a.m.)CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: We'll hear argumentnow in Number -, Georgia versus John Ashcroft.Mr. Walbert.ORAL ARGUMENT OF DAVID F. WALBERTON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERMR. WALBERT: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court:For some decades now, the policy of the UnitedStates has been to embrace integration, reject segregationand separation of people. We stand -- really, the Nationof the United States of America stands pretty much as thebeacon in the world to the notion that balkanization isnot the way to go. Particularly in public affairs and in public life, integration, working together, not separatingpeople on the basis of race is our goal.This Court started that trend, that great trend,in the early -- in the s with the original decisionsof Smith versus Allright, putting aside segregation, thepast history of that in this country, the ICC, InterstateCommerce Commission desegregation decisions, Brown versusBoard of Education, voting rights cases, jury cases, andso on. And the policy of the United States, as thisCourt was the leader on that at all times, has always th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC been -- has been for integration, for treating people thesame independent of their color.Congress followed behind this Court, startedadopting some of the early Civil Rights Act in the earlys, the more moderate ones, if you will, under -- underPresident Eisenhower's administration, and of course, thegreat Civil Rights Act of was enacted. , VotingRights was enacted; and the Open Housing Act.Throughout that entire time, the policy ofintegration has been the policy that this Nation hasembraced and espoused and advocated. And I would submitto Your Honors respectfully that the State of Georgia --the position the State of Georgia puts before this Courtin this case today stands four square in the center ofthat tradition.Georgia comes here to this Court todayadvocating that politics should be open and integrated. Politics should not have allocations unnecessarily, inparticular, of seats based on race. I would submit tothis Court that what we say is totally consistent witheverything this Court has said that touches upon thismatter and in this particular regard.QUESTION: Could we bring it down to what wehave to decide here, which is whether there wasretrogression or not? th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC MR. WALBERT: Yes, Justice O'Connor, and I wasgoing -- excuse me.QUESTION: And on that, do we look at the wholeState and what would happen overall, or do we just focuson individual legislative senatorial districts?MR. WALBERT: Well, I think you look at both,and when you look at the whole plan of redistricting, thenyou go down to look at the district. You can't do onewithout the other. One looks at, first of all, the wholeplan and sees if opportunities are the same in terms ofmajority and minority seats, for example, or opportunitieswhere minorities have a real opportunity get election, andsees whether that, under the whole plan, is the same andwhether that's been maintained.And to do that, though, one has to look --QUESTION: Well, what -- what ended up decidingthis case apparently was the fact that in three of thedistricts that were drawn for the Senate, the number ofblack voters decreased under the new plan from what it hadbeen, and they had been very safe districts --MR. WALBERT: Yes, Your Honor.QUESTION: -- assured of electing blackofficials before, and it was reduced to around percent. Is that right?MR. WALBERT: That's correct. The -- the th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC likelihood of winning -- the -- the black voter agepopulation was reduced to about percent --QUESTION: Yes.MR. WALBERT: -- which according to theevidence, would give about a percent chance of aminority candidate of choice winning in that particulardistrict.below?QUESTION: And was that the finding of the courtMR. WALBERT: The finding was that safe seats --the rule of law was that safe seats must be maintained. To get a safe seat here, one had to raise these to percent.QUESTION: Is --QUESTION: So that's the --QUESTION: Is -- is that one of the ways, atleast, that you think we ought to view this case? As Iunderstand it, no one on the other side is claiming thatthe percentage of safety has got to be maintained in orderto avoid retrogression.But one difference between you and them, atleast as I am reading what you're saying, is you, I think,are saying they maintain the same opportunity to elect. Minorities maintain the same opportunity to elect if theyuse their best efforts and their good politicians in doing th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC it. Whereas, the other side seems to be saying, there'sgot to be more of a margin of safety for maintaining -- oravoiding retrogression than merely best efforts. Thereshould be some margin of safety, even if it's not as greatas it used to be under the old districts. Is that a fairway of looking at the disagreement?MR. WALBERT: I -- I think it understates it alittle bit, in all due respect, Justice Souter, because Ithink the district court came squarely down. If you lookat the majority opinions -- and both Judge Sullivan andJudge Edwards wrote ones that were concurred in about eachother -- and Judge Oberdorfer's decision, the line is safeseats. One must maintain safe seats. And I think theonly way that those can be looked at in this case is thatall of the evidence is -- when you get to that level, no one has ever -- on an open seat in Georgia, no one's everlost a percent BVAP seat.QUESTION: Mr. Walbert, I didn't get thatimpression from Judge Edwards' opinion or JudgeSullivan's. They both say we are dealing with a narrowsection . It has a concept, retrogression, backsliding. And I assume that they would say if you start out, youstart with the status quo. Everyone agrees with that. Ifyou start out with, say, percent and you end up with percent, it's okay. You don't have to have a safe th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC district because the starting point may not be safe.MR. WALBERT: I -- I agree entirely with that,Your Honor. I didn't mean to suggest that they arerequiring more than that. The fact is that thesedistricts that evolved demographically from the Census, when two more districts under the old districtingplan became majority minority, became high BVAP -- let'stake Senate District , for example.QUESTION: Well, is it -- are you saying thatwhen you get up over a certain number of black voters,say, percent, then retrogression or backsliding isreally out of the picture because it's good enough?MR. WALBERT: Well, I would say this. Where youhave a real equal opportunity at winning the seat, that isenough.QUESTION: Yes, but that's the -- that's theconclusion, and we're -- we're looking for some kind ofindication at this point of whether that is true. And theonly indication that at least I have and I think thatJustice Ginsburg is -- is looking at right now are -- arethe percentage figures, the BVAP percentage figures.MR. WALBERT: Well, I think this, Your Honor. Imean, the -- the court accepted Dr. Epstein's probabilitycurve all over -- any number of times. I think it was onpage the first time. Dr. Epstein's evidence is -- his th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC study is reliable and relevant is what the court says inthat regard. And I guess the critical thing is that wasthe only evidence in this case, plus the legislators whotestified, and -- and Congressman Lewis who testifiedabout the likelihood of winning at a percent BVAPlevel.QUESTION: Let -- let me ask you this becausesome of what you say might be explained as just adifference of -- of -- a conclusion of facts, which wehave to accept. Were there legal premises that themajority opinions adopted below that were wrong? Was itwrong to talk about robust campaigning? Was it wrong toconsider polarized voting? Were there -- did thecontrolling opinions make reference to any impermissiblelegal standards?MR. WALBERT: Well, I think the bottom linestandard of safe seat is the problem that we have. I'mnot sure that -- they didn't speak of robust campaigning,with all due respect, Justice Kennedy. It was robustdistricts, meaning -- they equated that with safe. Andthe -- the point -- that is the legal issue. That is thefundamental legal flaw in the opinion of the majoritybelow that we take issue with, the fact that one mustmaintain safe seats and --QUESTION: What's -- what's the legal issue? th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC MR. WALBERT: That --QUESTION: That is, I -- I thought there's astatute, and the statute here says that you cannot have anew plan which will have the effect of abridging the rightto vote on account of race.MR. WALBERT: Yes, sir.QUESTION: And Judge Edwards says that thatstatute has been interpreted to mean you cannot backslide,and he adds that if you go from a safe seat to a seatwhere there's only a fair opportunity, that is clearlybacksliding unless it's made up for in other districts. Let's call it frontsliding. And here there is no evidenceof frontsliding, and here there are two experts whodisagree as to the backsliding. One is Epstein who thinksthere isn't, and the other is Engstrom --MR. WALBERT: Well --QUESTION: -- who thinks there is. And twojudges below agreed with Engstrom and one judge belowagreed with Epstein.MR. WALBERT: I --QUESTION: Now, are we supposed to do -- to goback and redo the work of those three judges and say,well, we happen to think Epstein was better or the otherone thinks Engstrom was better? Is that this -- what thiscase is about? And if it isn't about this, I don't know th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC what it's about.MR. WALBERT: Well, first, that's not whathappened in the record. Professor Engstrom gave notestimony. There was no testimony but from our side ofthe case about the likelihood of winning. ProfessorEngstrom came in and said there is racially polarizedvoting, and he criticized that and the Departmentcriticized it, and it was relied upon. But the AfricanAmerican candidates were winning in election afterelection after election in which he said there is aproblematic racially polarized voting.QUESTION: I -- I'm overstating what I say forpurposes of clarity, because you're giving a view ofEngstrom, and I'm sure the other side will give a somewhatdifferent view, but nonetheless, I want to know what it is I'm supposed to do as a judge in this Court.After reading it, I thought what you're askingme to do is to go back, look at what Judge Edwards and theother majority judge cite as convincing, factual, detailedstatistical evidence, look at the evidence of thepolitical figures who are very distinguished whom JudgeOberdorfer cites the other way, and remake that evaluationthat three judges of -- of a three-judge district courtdid. Now, my question is, is that right? Have it got itright what you think we should do in this case? th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC MR. WALBERT: No, you do not.QUESTION: All right. Good. Then what is itI'm supposed to do?MR. WALBERT: The rule of law that wasestablished here by the majority of having to maintain --having to maintain a safe seat. There's no questionthey're not saying you have to create one if there wasn'tone, but the question is, do you have to maintain a seatthat's safe?QUESTION: All right. Why -- if that's theissue, assuming that the safe seat, going down to only aprobable seat, is nowhere made up for by countervailingfactors elsewhere in the State, assuming that, why isn'tgoing from a safe seat to a fair probability seat -- whyis that not backsliding, retrogression, other things being equal, an abridgement, a -- the effect of abridging theright to vote because of race?MR. WALBERT: Well --QUESTION: Why isn't it? It if that's theissue, why isn't it?MR. WALBERT: There's two reasons. And -- andfirst of all, no one disagrees that loweringthe percentage and the likelihood down -- the -- we'renot -- no one in this case, including the district court,says you can't lower the probabilities. So what Your th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC Honor is saying is a position more extreme than what themajority says below.QUESTION: I'm reading -- I'll say it againbecause I'm reading from Judge Edwards. Going from a safedistrict --MR. WALBERT: Yes, sir.QUESTION: -- into one where there is only afair opportunity, that -- that, he says, other thingsbeing equal in the State, will constitute retrogression ineffect, not necessarily in purpose, but in effect. Andnow, why isn't that so?MR. WALBERT: And -- and my point is that he isconceding that dropping down from a certain seat to a safeseat is okay. Now, how does that -- how can that possiblysquare to the notion of retrogression? Everybody agrees in this courtroom, including the majority below, thatthere can be decreases in the likelihood of success. Theonly question in this Court -- in this case is where doyou draw the line? Safe or equal seats?Safe is just out of the air. Never before inthe history of this Court has anyone ever said safe isthe -- is the Plimsoll line or the water line beyond whichyou cannot drop.QUESTION: You're drawing a distinction betweensafe and certain. Now, did -- th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC MR. WALBERT: Well, safe is --QUESTION: Did Judge Edwards --MR. WALBERT: And that's what the -- and thecourt is acknowledging that there is a drop for sure. Thecourt said --QUESTION: A drop that makes no difference. That's -- that's how I understood their opinion.MR. WALBERT: I don't think that could be,because --QUESTION: A safe seat is a safe seat. It meansa certain seat.MR. WALBERT: No, it doesn't in this case, YourHonor, because when you get to the levels they're talkingabout, there is still a possibility for sure, whether it's percent or whatever, but that's a real possibility. QUESTION: But I didn't think we're dealing withsafe versus certain in this case. I thought what we'redealing in this case is two judges decided that droppingfrom safe to whatever you want to characterize thislevel -- Edwards characterizes it as fair probability, butcharacterize it as you wish -- dropping from safe to thislevel, however you want to characterize this, is aretrogression. And one judge thought it wasn't given thecircumstances.So what is it that you, aside from re-evaluating th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC the evidence, believe that we should say?MR. WALBERT: They used different legalstandards, with all due respect, Justice Breyer.QUESTION: And what is that difference?MR. WALBERT: Safe versus equal. That is thedifference in the legal standards between the majorityand -- and the decision below.QUESTION: Or why is Edwards' standard in youropinion wrong?MR. WALBERT: Because I think it's inconsistentwith what this Court has said on section before. And ifI might read several of the -- just a sentence. And I'mgoing to start with Justice Marshall, who was the mostaggressive interpreter and advocate of what section would mean. And in his dissent, in the case of United States versus Mississippi in , he three timesaddressed what section requires in a retrogressioncontext.And he said in the first thing, it requires areasonable opportunity to elect a candidate of theirchoice. That is what a district had to be maintained likeunder Justice Marshall's interpretation of section . That's on page of that decision.Again, on the next -- on page , JusticeMarshall says, the numbers must be sufficient to provide, th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC quote, a fair opportunity to elect candidates, unquote.QUESTION: That sounds very much like section language.MR. WALBERT: And -- and that's in section under Justice Marshall is all I'm saying, Your Honor,because this issue that is in this case today has neverbeen squarely put before this Court. But all the priorlanguage of the Court interpreting, where does section kick in when there is still fair, equal districts.QUESTION: I thought that the Bossier, the twocases, clarified the difference between section andsection , and what you just read from Justice Marshallsounds to me like the section standard.MR. WALBERT: Well --QUESTION: Section standard is you start with what you have, you look to see if there's backsliding.MR. WALBERT: I think the problem, though,Judge -- and -- and certainly you start with backslidingand retrogression, but the question is, where does inquirystop? Truly, you could say at a percent district goesdown to percent, the chances clearly change onelectoral success, without a doubt. That is inevitable. Goes from to , to . That is a real andpalpable change. That is okay, according to the districtcourt, because at least we stopped at safe. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC That's our problem. We don't think safe iswhere you arbitrarily draw the line to stop. No decisionof this Court ever has suggested that before. So is --QUESTION: Well, you start with, say, . Wheredoes backsliding start in your view of section ?MR. WALBERT: In our view of section , so longas -- if you have a district that is -- that it has atleast an equal opportunity, it must be maintained in thatfashion. If you have a -- a district where minoritieshave an equal opportunity or better, to prevail and tocontrol.QUESTION: Well, then how do you fitbacksliding, retrogression --MR. WALBERT: If you go -- excuse me.QUESTION: If -- if you go, say, from to what? ? That's okay because you -- you would have afair opportunity?MR. WALBERT: If the evidence in a particularcase would show that, that -- you know, we never wentbelow on anything, so that's not here in this case.QUESTION: Although it would seem an unusualdefinition of backslide.MR. WALBERT: Well, I think the problem is this,though, Your Honor. Where -- what would be the policyreason where a section of the Voting Rights Act, th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC section , could be construed to mandate a State tomaintain something more than what Federal law couldpossibly compel it to under section ?QUESTION: It doesn't contain --QUESTION: So -- so what you're saying is --QUESTION: It doesn't contain the wordbacksliding, does it? What -- what's --MR. WALBERT: Section does not, Your Honor.QUESTION: What's the text that -- that we'reinterpreting and -- and --MR. WALBERT: It's abridge --QUESTION: -- interpreting to mean backsliding?MR. WALBERT: It's abridge or deny the right tovote --QUESTION: Abridge or deny the right to vote. MR. WALBERT: Yes, sir.QUESTION: And -- and that has been interpretedby some of our opinions to mean that once a certain levelis reached, you're abridging or denying the right to voteif it goes below that level of -- of safety. Is that it?MR. WALBERT: That's correct, Your Honor.QUESTION: And you --QUESTION: And the reason for that is because, Igather, historically there were quite a few instanceswhere, indeed, in the South, you could elect -- a black th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC representative was elected by a black community in, let'ssay, one district. And then, lo and behold, what happensis that the district boundaries are changed so that therehappened to be a lot fewer black representatives electedout of districts that were predominantly black. I take itthat's why Congress passed this statute.MR. WALBERT: Section ?QUESTION: Yes.MR. WALBERT: No. Congress passed thestatute -- section in because they were concernedabout voter registration laws changing after --QUESTION: And backsliding so that you had fewerpeople who were --MR. WALBERT: It was -- it was passed todovetail with the literacy test. That's why it was passed.QUESTION: So it doesn't really have to do withretrogression in your view?MR. WALBERT: Sure, it does, as been interpretedby this Court since then, but the original reason why itwas passed was to fit in with the literacy test.QUESTION: So what it -- what it comes down tois not a -- is -- is that the State is entitled to take asafe district and make it a district where there's justa -- an even chance. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC MR. WALBERT: Equal opportunity, yes, YourHonor. And -- and our reasoning on that is -- is a simplething. If one looks at it from the other side, and -- andwe're not saying section is incorporated in section .QUESTION: And -- and this cannot be within thedefinition of retrogression.MR. WALBERT: That's correct, Your Honor. Thatcannot be the abridgement of the right to vote.QUESTION: May I ask a sort of a generalquestion? In any of the analysis, do the -- the judgestake into account the likelihood of winning primaries asopposed to the likelihood of winning the election itself?MR. WALBERT: It's -- it's implicit in what wedid because we looked at the whole election scheme. Everything that Dr. Epstein did was the whole election. Dr. Engstrom made no distinction between nonpartisanelections, generals, and primaries. He lumped them alltogether and treated them in one ball of wax. Wecertainly did, and our evidence always looked atwinning/winning, winning the seat. If you won the primaryand lost the seat, you're a loser because we're talkingabout winning the election. That's all we looked at. Ifyou didn't win it, we didn't count it.But the thing that is the most troubling, Iguess, in this regard that is -- and the reason I looked th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC to section is not that section is incorporated inhere, but if you assume that section was proved -- thata plaintiff came in and proved a section violation inGeorgia, what would be the high water mark relief thatthey would get? They would get under Justice Souter'sopinion for the Court in Johnson versus DeGrandy adistrict with an equal opportunity to prevail. That --QUESTION: But we really haven't equatedsection challenges with section challenges.MR. WALBERT: That's correct, Your Honor.QUESTION: I know that's what you're arguing,but we have not done that. And we have said thatsection prevents retrogression. So I think this caseboils down to what amounts to retrogression.MR. WALBERT: And I think, Your Honor, with all due respect here, I believe that the problem withinterpreting it to be an absolutist at the safe seatlevel, you've got to -- in our opinion -- and we raisedthe issue, of course -- is a grave constitutionalquestion. What is the legitimate ends? What is thelegitimate ends into -- I think the Court's discussion inCity of Boerne versus Florida is the most detaileddiscussion recently about section enforcement powerunder the th and section under the th -- andeverybody on the Court agreed with the formulation there. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC The ends of Congress must be legitimate and theends must be related proportionately and with congruence,the -- the remedies that are chosen by Congress. And Iwould have to say what is -- other than just preservingwhat happens to be there -- the only reason we're talkingabout keeping safe seats is they happen to be there. Thisis not because they're ever put in because of a remedy.QUESTION: Is it illegitimate for the State todecide to keep the safe seat if it wants?MR. WALBERT: That's a different questionsurely, but no, I would say it's not, Your Honor. I thinkas long as it's not --QUESTION: It is not --MR. WALBERT: Excuse me.QUESTION: -- illegitimate.MR. WALBERT: Correct.QUESTION: It -- it is proper.MR. WALBERT: I think that is within the State'sprerogative so long as --QUESTION: Well, then is it proper for theJustice Department to consider that in its discretion indeciding whether or not to preclear?MR. WALBERT: You know --QUESTION: It's not using an illegitimatefactor. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC MR. WALBERT: I'm going to add on the last partof that. So long as it's not the predominant reason forthe way the lines are drawn is how I was going to try andanswer the -- the rest of the last question. So the Statecan do it.And -- and it is illegitimate in this sense,Your Honor, because you're getting back to the questionabout why didn't the State do it, which is almost likeBossier II. What's the purpose and so on behind it? Solong as we maintain a system that satisfies the -- what Iwould call the high water liability remedy level ofsection , that has got to be enough.QUESTION: All right. What is your answer tothis -- this counter-argument? I don't know whether theother side is going to make it, but let -- let me -- let me try it here.The reason that section is in there is thatefforts simply to achieve your Plimsoll line, the -- theequal opportunity, historically failed over and over andover and over again because every time a decree came downsaying equal opportunity is required, there would beanother voting change that, in fact, would inject a -- anew fact pattern. And the new fact pattern, just aboutevery time, resulted in something less than equality.Section is there, in effect, to say you th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC can't -- you can't make a move without advance approval,and the only way, in effect -- this Court has said inBeer, the only way to -- or the -- the best way at least,to keep from moving that line in a way which is going toresult in less than an equal opportunity is to insist thatat least the status quo, as best you can determine it, is,in fact, not going to be modified by the change. And ifthe status quo is some measure of safety, then the theoryof section is preserve the measure of safety because ifyou don't do that, we know what's going to happen, andwhat's going to happen is you're not going to get to theline of equality.That's the argument. It's essentially anhistorical argument. And what do you say to that?MR. WALBERT: Several things. First of all, the history Your Honor cites, which is correct in someregards, has nothing to do with redistricting history as amatter of fact in Georgia at least. We have eight --QUESTION: That's what we -- that's what you getfor general laws. We -- we've got a general law, andthat's the theory behind it.MR. WALBERT: Well, I think insofar as you'retrying to apply that in interpreting section in thiscontext, with all due respect, Justice Souter, I don'tthink that that is a realistic way of interpreting it here th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC because of that history.If the mere fact that there was segregation andso on before , a horrible history before , thatthat was enough to justify in the year where AfricanAmericans are demonstrably having success that no onewould have dreamed of in in the State of Georgia --in a percent black State, one-quarter of the statewideelected officials are African American today in the Stateof Georgia. And to say that it is necessary is sodivorced from the factual reality that it wouldn't be afair factual predicate to apply that constitutionally tothe State of Georgia at this time in history.QUESTION: Why wouldn't it be -- why wouldn't itbe fair for us to say, number one, we're going to maintainthe Beer theory? And we're going to accept the position taken by Judge Edwards that if there was a margin ofsafety before, there's got to be some margin of safety nowin order to comply with Beer and ultimately withsection , and we're going to leave the law alone to thatextent because the statute is up for renewal in a fewyears, and that will be an appropriate time for Congressto decide whether it wants to modify the standard or,indeed, to continue to have any section standard at all. That's a timing argument. What's your response to that?MR. WALBERT: I would say that's punting the th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC Court's constitutional and statutory interpretation dutyto a coincidence of time like that, with all due respect,Your Honor. We have this case today.QUESTION: Well, we've --MR. WALBERT: And what Georgia can do today isthe questions before this Court. And the fact thatCongress may or may not -- any law that ever comes beforethis Court may be repealed the next week.QUESTION: Maybe -- maybe it would be --QUESTION: No. But this isn't repealed. Thisis --act.MR. WALBERT: But it is always --QUESTION: This is an automatic expiration --MR. WALBERT: Well --QUESTION: -- on which Congress will have to MR. WALBERT: It's a de facto extension as apractical matter. There is no real likelihood thatsection will not be extended as a practical matter.That's been true in ', ', '. Whether it will be for years, or or become permanent this time, I don'tknow.QUESTION: Maybe if we make it bad enough,they'll think about repealing it.(Laughter.) th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC QUESTION: Maybe worse is better from yourstandpoint.MR. WALBERT: I don't know about that, Judge. We don't have a problem with section . It's the way itwould be applied if the district court were affirmed inthis case.And the difficulty is that just the whole notionof making section compel more than the substance ofsection in a redistricting context, there's a graveillogic about that given the narrow purpose of section which is always the freeze and the backslide, theemergencies. Don't -- don't let anything bad happen.If what Your Honor just said, Justice Souter, ifit happened that there was a mistake and, oh, my gosh, itreally -- the world changed in Georgia and percent or percent wasn't equal and it turned -- and percentwasn't and it had to go back up to -- let's take anunimaginably bad situation -- section is still there. Section could be applied.Section is a stopgap, extraordinarily harshstatute that is unique. It is unique in our Federalsystem.And the answer, I truly believe, to Your Honor'squestion is section is always there if any of those kindof parade of horribles, if you will -- if the expectation th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC of equality disappeared. But we're dealing with the factsof today, and the facts of today at the time of this trialshowed equality was absolutely established at the levelthat we were talking about. And that is the problem withthis case that is before this Court today.If I may reserve the remainder of my time forrebuttal, Your Honor.QUESTION: Very well, Mr. Walbert.Mr. Stewart, we'll hear from you.ORAL ARGUMENT OF MALCOLM L. STEWARTON BEHALF OF THE FEDERAL RESPONDENTMR. STEWART: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court:In a section preclearance action, theappropriate comparison is between a covered jurisdiction's proposed voting change and the jurisdiction's existingpractice.In the present case, the district court foundthat Georgia's proposed Senate districting plan was likelyto cause a significant diminution of black voters' abilityto elect their candidates of choice.QUESTION: In -- in preclearing, does theGovernment look at the effect as a whole? What if, underthe plan, it's true that the districts reduced the blackvoter population somewhat from the prior districting, but th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC in so doing, they picked up enough black voters in anotherdistrict that gave them an additional elected official ofthe minority race --MR. STEWART: The Justice Department --QUESTION: -- and -- and as a whole might bebetter off?MR. STEWART: The Justice Department's view isthat the analysis should focus on the plan as a whole, andour guidance is --QUESTION: You do look at it as a whole.MR. STEWART: We do look at the plan as a whole.QUESTION: And you didn't think that this planresulted in a gain as a whole?MR. STEWART: No, because our -- our feeling wasthat there were three Senate districts that we focused on specifically because we felt, for a variety of reasons,that the diminution in black population was likely to havea significant impact on black voters' ability to electcandidates of choice in those three districts. And we --we also looked to where those black voters were going. Were they being redistributed to other districts in whichthey would increase the ability to elect candidates ofchoice?The -- the focus of the inquiry has always beenon the ability to elect candidates of choice. So, for th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC instance, if --QUESTION: Well, with certainty or -- orability? I'm -- I'm really concerned about how far we aregetting from the text of the statute. The statute saysnothing about retrogression. Indeed, it says nothingabout redistricting. It -- it's -- it -- it says that ifone of the States who were covered by section seeks toadminister any voting qualification or prerequisite tovoting, or standard practice or procedure with respect tovoting, which I would have thought meant, you know,whether you vote on a -- on a working day or on anon-working day, whether the polls are open for a certainamount of time or not. Anyway, we've expanded that tocover districting.Then it goes on and it says, any change cannot have the purpose and will not have the effect of denyingor abridging the right to vote on account of race orcolor. And we have said that that means you're denying orabridging the right -- the right to vote if you backslide. If -- if a -- even though all of the black or minoritycitizens can vote just the way they did before, ifthe percentage of -- of minority voters in a -- in acertain district goes down, we have denied or abridgedtheir right to vote.I -- I find that -- maybe that is a plausible th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC interpretation of the statute when you are going from agood chance to elect a minority candidate to no chance ofelecting a minority candidate. Maybe you can stretch itthat far, but to say that you're abridging or denying theright to vote when you go from a certainty or safe seatfor electing a minority candidate to a mere probabilityof -- of electing a minority candidate -- to say that thatconstitutes a denying or abridging of the right to voteseems to me to -- you know, in violation of the -- of thelegal principle that fun's fun but you can't die laughing.(Laughter.)QUESTION: I mean, that is such a -- such astretch of the statutory language that the -- that theGovernment is asking us to accept that I -- I find itimplausible.MR. STEWART: Several points. The -- the Court-in the second Bossier Parish case discussed theretrogression standard and grounded it in the word abridgeand explained that the -- the word abridge necessarilyimplies a comparison to some baseline. And in thesection context, the baseline is a hypotheticalreasonable world. But because section is targetedspecifically at voting changes, the appropriate baselineis the jurisdiction's existing practice.QUESTION: Well, you -- you wouldn't say that a th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC reduction from percent minority to percent minorityabridges, would you?MR. STEWART: No, because I think the likelihoodof --QUESTION: So that proposition that merereduction is enough is -- is simply not valid.MR. STEWART: I mean, I think -- I think the --QUESTION: So why isn't it reasonable to saythat the reduction that counts is the reduction below thepoint where the minority has a probability of winning theelection? Why does it have to be below the point wherethe minority has a certainty of -- of winning theelection?MR. STEWART: Well, I -- I think one -- onething the Court should focus on is that when we're talking about the Senate districts at issue here, we are talkingabout districts that are among the strongest for blacks inthe State of Georgia; that is, under the benchmark plan, out of districts with -- Senate districts within theState had majority black voting age populations. That'sin a State that's approximately percent black in termsof voting age population. So to say that the districts inwhich blacks are strongest have been reduced to a pointwhere blacks have an equal opportunity to elect candidatesis not equivalent to saying that in the State as a whole th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC blacks have equal electoral opportunities.QUESTION: Well, how about if it's reduced to aprobably will elect? More likely than not.MR. STEWART: I mean, I think if we're goingfrom the percent certainty to the percentlikelihood --QUESTION: Yes.MR. STEWART: -- we would still say that'sretrogression. We -- we do have a sort of substantialityinquiry in Department of Justice preclearance practicewhere --QUESTION: Well, there was another district,Senate District , where the percentage dropped from percent to . percent, and the Government didn'tchallenge that.MR. STEWART: I -- I think part of the reason --QUESTION: Why?MR. STEWART: Part of the reason that theGovernment challenged these three districts had to do withthe magnitude of the increase, but part of it also had todo with electoral history and evidence of raciallypolarized voting. And I -- I don't --QUESTION: Does the --QUESTION: What about section ?MR. STEWART: I -- I don't know the reason that th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC we didn't object to -- to Senate District . I do knowas to Senate District , for instance, that even thoughthe BVAP under the benchmark plan was over percent, ina runoff election, the black candidate of choice hadwon the -- the primary by only votes, and the reasonwas that the black candidate received approximately percent of the black vote but only percent of thewhite vote, and then --QUESTION: Does the State have any latitudeinsofar as your interpretation of the statute is concernedand insofar as your Department policy is concerned toexperiment to see if it can't expand the black franchisein other districts? Nothing in life is certain, and yourposition is -- is that the State is simply frozen in thesesupermajority districts and it can't attempt to increase minority representation in other districts.MR. STEWART: No.QUESTION: Doesn't it have -- doesn't the Statehave some latitude to try that?MR. STEWART: We certainly think that they do,and -- and nothing that we've said in this case andnothing that the district court said is to the contrary. That is, if the State had sought to prove that thelikelihood of electing black voters' candidates of choicein these three districts would be somewhat reduced, but th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC that that was likely to be offset by correspondingincreases in the ability to elect -- to elect candidatesof choice in other districts --QUESTION: Well, was that -- where did I get thenotion that there was very likely going to be, under theirplan, another minority official elected --MR. STEWART: I --QUESTION: -- in an additional district?MR. STEWART: I don't -- there was -- there wasa pair of Senate Districts, not , , and , one ofwhich was reduced sharply in black population --QUESTION: I have the same -- I have the sameproblem with Justice O'Connor. I -- I thought the casewas before us on -- on the assumption that there is alikelihood that there will be another black representative from another district --QUESTION: Yes.QUESTION: -- and that that was the testimony ofthe State and the State said that this is the reason whywe're doing this.MR. STEWART: No. That -- that's not the caseat all. I think the -- the nature of the State's plan wasto reduce the high majorities of black voters in somedistricts, and those voters would be redistributed toother districts, but not districts in which there would be th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC a high enough black population to create a plausiblelikelihood of electing black candidates of choice.QUESTION: Why -- why is that the only changethat's relevant? Why is it insignificant that you -- youchange a district that was previously lily-white into adistrict that has, let's say, percent black voterswhose wishes and whose desires have to be taken intoaccount by whoever is elected from that district, whetherhe's white or black? Why is that an insignificant benefitto -- to the black voters in that district so they won'tget some -- some redneck discriminatory representative,but rather somebody who will take into account theirneeds, even if he's not a black man?MR. STEWART: As -- as an original matter, Ithink an argument could be made that black voters throughout the State of Georgia would be better off ifevery district were percent black on the theory thateven though they couldn't elect any candidates of choice,they could influence all legislators. But although anargument could be made along those lines, the Court hasconsistently, in its vote dilution cases, framed theinquiry in terms of the ability to elect -- to electcandidates of choice.QUESTION: We've never had a case before that --that amounts to a reduction not below the level where they th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC can elect, but -- but just to the level where it's merelyprobable as opposed to certain that -- that they canelect. I -- I don't know that we're foreclosed fromtaking that reality into account.MR. STEWART: I -- I agree that the -- theprecise question hasn't come before this Court.The two things I'd say are that, first, we aretalking about the strongest districts for blacks. So tosay that those districts have been reduced to an evenshot, a toss-up, is not to say that blacks have equalelectoral power statewide.The second point I'd make is this is notdifferent in principle from what goes on all the time inother preclearance settings. That is, it is often thecase that a covered jurisdiction will seek preclearance of a voting change, and the change will consist of gettingrid of something that the jurisdiction had no obligationto create in the first instance. But the inquiry hasalways focused on retrogression, on whether the State hasmade black voters worse off than they were --QUESTION: Now, worse off, I thought -- and I'mstill at my same problem of what am I supposed to do inthis case. But I thought worse off means their right tovote is abridged because of race. Abridged is the word. And that it isn't so much a question, though it's partly a th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC question, of percentage of black voters in the district. It is really a question of what a reduction inthat percentage means in terms of a -- a race, blackpeople, being able, across the State, to have a better orworse chance of electing public officials that they want. And that's a function of polarization because if thereisn't a lot of polarization, there is no such person asthe official they want. But there might be where there ispolarization. And it's also a function of how much of areduction you get in a particular district in terms ofwhat that means.Now, if I'm thinking that way, A, is that theright way to think about it? B, if it is, do I have anyalternative in this case but to go through the statisticaltestimony about polarization? The testimony, if there is any, which I'm not sure that there is or not -- I thoughtthe majority held there wasn't -- that somehow otherdistricts will be benefitted, and then sort of secondguess the district court. What is it I'm supposed to do? Do I have it right? And if I have it right, is that whatI'm supposed to do?MR. STEWART: I -- I think you're looking at itcorrectly. And when the Justice Department approachedthis case, there were other Senate districts in which theabsolute drop in black voting age population was much th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC greater than in these three districts. The reason wefound these districts problematic was partly the -- themagnitude of the reduction, partly the fact that it hadoccurred along a point in the spectrum where a percentreduction was especially likely to have a concrete impact. That is, it stands to reason that reducing blackpopulation from percent to percent will more likelyaffect concrete results than reducing it from percentto percent or from percent to percent.QUESTION: It isn't just percents --MR. STEWART: And --QUESTION: -- it's a question of what a percentmeans in the context of the particular district.MR. STEWART: That's correct. And we -- weintroduced --QUESTION: And it's not just a little. It hasto be a lot.MR. STEWART: We introduced --QUESTION: It has to mean a lot.MR. STEWART: We introduced substantialdistrict-specific evidence of racial polarization in thesethree specific Senate districts. We -- both statisticaland anecdotal evidence to the effect that there was a highdegree of correlation between the race of the voter andthe candidate of choice and evidence that racial appeals th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC had been made in prior elections within those districts. So the first step was to say, based on all that evidence,there is a -- this change is likely to have a significantimpact on black voters' ability to elect candidates ofchoice in these districts. And the district court foundto that effect.And the second thing that the district courtsaid --QUESTION: I think the -- the district courtfound that -- I thought there was a heavy concentration oncrossover in this record. Wasn't that the wholecontroversy about Engstrom? Didn't he say that therewould be minimal white crossover in these districts?MR. STEWART: That's correct. His -- hisanalysis of the statistical evidence of prior elections within the districts was that there would be minimal whitecrossover voting. There was substantial racialpolarization within these three districts specifically. And so the district court found that the likelihood ofblack candidates -- of black voters' ability being able toelect candidates of choice in these three districts --QUESTION: Do the findings tell us whetherthere's been any change in the last few years in theamount of white crossover voting? It seems to me there'ssome anecdotal evidence to that effect. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC MR. STEWART: I -- I don't believe that therewere findings to that effect. The -- the findings werebasically surveying the last --QUESTION: Were they based on evidence duringthe last few years, or back in the 's and 's?MR. STEWART: During the last few years. Basically the experience under the benchmark district.But the second thing that the district courtsaid and -- and emphasized -- and I believe it's onpages and a of the appendix to the jurisdictionalstatement. The district court said at the very bottom ofthe page, once again we note that it may well be the casethat any decrease in African American electoral power inSenate Districts , , and will be offset by gains inother districts, but plaintiff, namely the State, has failed to present any such evidence.So the district court acknowledged in principlethat even though black voters' ability to elect candidatesof choice in these three districts had been substantiallydecreased, the State might, nevertheless, be able to provenon-retrogression for the plan as a whole if it presentedevidence that there would be offsetting gains in otherdistricts. And the court faulted the State for a failureof proof not for any -- not -- it didn't suggest thatthere was a -- an analytical barrier to proceeding along th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC that basis.So I think the district court regarded this as arelatively easy case precisely because there weremeaningful losses in identified districts and no attemptto prove offsetting gains in others. And again, theretrogression standard has always focused on whether thechange renders minority voters worse off.And again, the -- the preclearance inquiry wouldsubstantially -- be substantially complicated if theanalysis were otherwise. That is the Court has held, forinstance, that relocation of polling places is one type ofchange that has to be precleared before it can --QUESTION: Well, if they were not offsettinggains, what was the gravamen of the testimony of the blackState officials who testified in favor of this plan? MR. STEWART: The -- the gravamen of the -- thetestimony was not that there would be offsetting gains inblack voters' ability to elect candidates of choice. Really, the thrust of the plan was black voters would betaken out of majority black districts and placed indistricts that were predominantly white. The blackpercentages would be too low for the black electorate toelect candidates of choice, but it might be high enoughthat the black vote could swing the balance between awhite Republican and a white Democratic candidate. That th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC was really the thrust of the plan.And because -- again, whatever might have beensaid in the first instance, the Court's analysis hasfocused on ability to elect candidates of choice. Congress has amended section to facilitate vote dilutionclaims along those lines. Congress has continued toreenact section against the backdrop of the Court'sdecision. So even though the argument could have beenmade that it's more important for blacks to be the balanceof power in a lot of districts than to be able to electcandidates of choice in a few, the Court has rejected thatproposition and Congress appears to have endorsed theCourt's holdings by continuing to reenact these provisionswithout change.If the Court has nothing further.QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. Stewart.Mr. Braden.ORAL ARGUMENT OF E. MARSHALL BRADENON BEHALF OF THE PRIVATE INTERVENORSMR. BRADEN: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease this Court:I assume that the threshold question for theintervenors in this case raised by the State is whether ornot the two intervenors of the four intervenors, twoAfrican American Republican voters and two African th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC American Democrat voters, are properly in this case. Isintervention permitted in a section case?If precedent or experience provides any guidanceto this Court, the answer clearly is yes. In more than percent of the section litigation in district courthere in the District of Columbia, more than percent ofthose cases have involved intervenors. There is not asingle case -- not a single case -- cited by the State ofGeorgia where the Court has rejected the concept ofintervention in section litigation.QUESTION: Well, in -- this type of case isgoverned by the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure, is itnot, which provide for intervention under givencircumstances?MR. BRADEN: Absolutely correct, Mr. Chief Justice, and --QUESTION: Mr. Braden, I -- I think even ifyou're correct that intervention was appropriate, did theintervenors join in the appeal here?MR. BRADEN: Intervenors did not join in theappeal.issue?QUESTION: So why isn't it moot as to yourMR. BRADEN: As to our issue, it's not mootbecause this Court might fashion a remedy to send it back th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC to the district court for additional findings, in which wewould have presumably a position to argue it in that case.QUESTION: Well, then you should have appealed. I mean, that -- if that was a real possibility, you shouldhave appealed, but not to appeal and then ask us to decidewhether you're proper intervenors because this mightaffect you, it seems to me --MR. BRADEN: We did not ask this --QUESTION: You can't walk both sides of thestreet.victory?QUESTION: I thought intervention was granted.MR. BRADEN: Intervention was granted.QUESTION: So how could you appeal from aMR. BRADEN: I do not know, Justice. It appearsto me that --QUESTION: Well, intervention was granted, butyou didn't join the appeal from -- from the decision belowor file a cross appeal. Right?MR. BRADEN: That is correct.But we are before this Court now and that -- inthat issue I think we are properly before this Court asdecided by the lower court.Now, the real issue I think below -- before thisCourt is the question of whether or not you can accept th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC Georgia's invitation to throw out years of yourjurisprudence because the reality of the Georgia positionis the rejection of retrogression. It's not this bugabooabout safe seats.Every redistricting plan, by its very nature,creates safe seats. The plan that wasn't preclearedcreated safe seats. It simply created safe seats solelyfor white members of the legislature. Their proposalwould permit the State to decide that there's only oneclass of Georgia's citizens entitled to safe electoralseats, and that would be white voters in Georgia.The reality of what happened in the Georgiaredistricting process is clear from the record in thiscase. To maintain the political majority in the Statelegislature in Georgia, the individuals involved in the process looked at it and decided, well, these existingblack districts, these existing represented communitieshave to be divided up. Black precincts have to be pulledout of those districts and put in adjoining whitedistricts so we may be able to maintain the Democrat levelof vote in those districts so white Democrats can win.QUESTION: Didn't -- didn't almost all of theblack legislature -- legislators in the Georgia assemblyfavor this -- this plan?MR. BRADEN: That is, in fact, correct, Justice th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC Scalia.just one?QUESTION: How -- how many opposed it? Was itMR. BRADEN: One in --QUESTION: A woman. I forget her name.MR. BRADEN: Actually, I believe there were two,but one in the Senate. Actually the senator representingDistrict which was one of the districts that wasrejected in this case.But I might make the observation that the viewfrom aboard the ship of state and on the dock is quitedifferent. If you're on board the ship, if you're alreadyin the legislature, the gangplank doesn't look very steepgoing up, but if you're there trying to get aboard theship of state, if you're not an incumbent -- incumbents have a different view and when an incumbent needs to beelected, it's totally different than a challengercandidate.QUESTION: Well, that may be, but I -- I find ithard to believe that they didn't have the -- the -- or amajority of them at least didn't have the best interestsof their -- of their race in -- in mind.And -- and of course, you know that one of theproblems has been in the southern States packingminorities into one district. I mean, it's been the -- in th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC the interest of particular parties on occasion to put allthe black voters in one district so that all the otherdistricts can be -- can go to the other party. And, youknow, maybe the black voters who supported this plan didso because they thought it was a good thing to dispersesome of the black voters who weren't needed to -- toproduce a high probability of success for a blackcandidate into other districts. I mean, that's -- that'sa very plausible explanation --MR. BRADEN: That -- that -- Justice Scalia,that is a very plausible explanation in a hypotheticalState. It simply isn't a plausible explanation in thecase of Georgia.One, no one alleged that these districts werepacked. That simply -- argument was never made. Second, we're not talking about incumbentslooking at the notion of whether or not we will maintain,quote/unquote, our racial position. We're talking aboutincumbents looking about --QUESTION: Yes, but don't the figures --MR. BRADEN: -- whether or not they'll beelected.QUESTION: Don't the figures show that some ofthe districts were way up there before, were -- werepacked and they reduced them something like percent to th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC or ? Doesn't that fit precisely under what JusticeScalia described?MR. BRADEN: Absolutely correct. And in fact,to be candid with you, it's our view as the intervenors --we believe the court actually probably went too low, thatthey took the numbers down, and frankly, the electionresults from the last election showed that our argumentwas vindicated by the failure to elect in certain districtcandidates of choice.The process -- the district court took a veryconservative view on the issue of retrogression. Theypermitted the State to decrease the number of black votingage populations in many districts, and the reason for thatwas not to unpack. Look at the record. I ask the Courtto look at the record. Look at the testimony of the person who drew the plan. Look at the dissenting opinionof the judge. Clearly what was happening here was adesire to divide up an existing community, to move blackprecincts into other districts to help elect Democratcandidates.Now, politically that's understandable andpolitical gerrymandering -- it would appear to me, thatit's possibly constitutional to do that, but not in aretrogression situation where we would reduce the blackcommunity's ability to elect its candidates of choice. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC And that's what's happening. Undeniable.And you're talking about two different classesof candidates. We have white safe seats but not black.QUESTION: The black -- the black community'scandidates of choice has overwhelmingly been Democrats andto -- to increase the probability of getting a Democratelected by moving black voters into another district isprecisely to give black voters a -- a better choice, to --to -- it may not be a black candidate, but it will be thecandidate the black voters want.MR. BRADEN: And I think that's amisinterpretation of this Court's position and amisunderstanding of what the voting rights is meant toprotect. This is not a max Democrat plan. Ourjurisprudence doesn't point -- we've got to create as many Democrat seats as possible. We're talking aboutmaintaining the existing level of the choice of theminority community which might be Democrat or might beRepublican.But we're not -- it's hard to imagine theCongress in renewed this act and thought it would beinterpreted of -- of not looking at how many black orminority candidates would be chosen, but how manyDemocrats would be elected to a legislature. One can'tpossibly believe that they would think that your th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC jurisprudence would metamorphose to something like that. That cannot be what we're looking at.QUESTION: No. But -- but I -- it's animplausible argument that you are -- you are contraveningthe choice of black voters by increasing the probabilityof a Democrat's getting elected.MR. BRADEN: In -- Justice Scalia, the fallacy Ibelieve of that argument, in all due respect, is thatthere's one type of Democrat candidate, and the reality tothat is there isn't one type.And the political science on this is abundantlyclear and the record in this case is abundantly clear thatthere's racial polarization and bloc voting. No onedenies that. It exists in Georgia. And this is simply acontinuation of Georgia's sad history of years of not just blocking minority voting rights, but enactingstatutes and working very hard to do this. And this is,in fact, another statute that was created to -- again todivide up existing representative districts, move outblack precincts to elect Democrats. That's the processhere.There is no tension whatsoever --QUESTION: Move out -- move out black voters toelect Democrats in the district they are moved to or inthe district they're moved from? th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC MR. BRADEN: In the district that they're movedto. This is just a carefully calculated scheme to movethe numbers down to make adjoining districts to thoseexisting black districts more likely to elect Democratcandidates. And what happens is those districts the blackprecincts are moved from become less likely to choose thecandidate of choice in more --QUESTION: Whether they're Democrats orRepublicans or whatever they are in these other districts,I take it in your view if evidence had been put on thestand that the black voter was better off, then you mightlose your side of the case.MR. BRADEN: Absolutely correct.QUESTION: Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Braden.Mr. Walbert, you have minutes left. REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF DAVID F. WALBERTON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERMR. WALBERT: Thank you, Your Honor.I would ask the Court to think of one questionhere, and it is this question. Is it remotely realisticin the real world that out of African Americanlegislators who are the most sophisticated, knowledgeableAfrican Americans about politics and winning and politicalpower and electoral power would have voted for this if itdid all these bad things, if this wasn't the best way they th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC could see of enhancing the power? Is that conceivable? It's not conceivable. That's -- that's fanciful. Onecan't possibly say that's possible. And --QUESTION: Well, it's conceivable if all they'reinterested in -- is, is in race and you want us to presumethat. They might also wanted to have kept their jobs.MR. WALBERT: Well, Your Honor, I don't thinkthat there's -- that's realistic to think that thedelegation would vote themselves out of office, which iswhat we're talking about. Are they making their districtsso weak they're voting themselves out of office? No.Their testimony is unequivocal that thisenhances black voting strength because -- and theSolicitor General was wrong when he says there's notestimony that the other districts would be enhanced. There is no testimony that any other districts wouldbecome safe seats, but from a black point of view,absolutely. When you're shifting the black votes intothose other districts, the potential is enhancing, thepotential of getting someone the Democrats prefer whohappens to be white.QUESTION: And the evidence is where? What am Isupposed to read?MR. WALBERT: That's in the testimony of everyone of the legislators, said that's why we get -- th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC QUESTION: So what -- what do I read and whatpages do I read?MR. WALBERT: It would be in the -- it's inthe -- the testimony of the legislators. It would be inthe proposed --QUESTION: Okay.MR. WALBERT: It's -- I'm sorry. It's thetestimony of the legislators. Some little bit of it isquoted in our brief. It's in the proposed findings offact in great detail, but it's the testimony of thelegislators.QUESTION: The district court didn't considerthat relevant testimony because it was not testimony aboutsafe seats elsewhere.MR. WALBERT: I would think that's a fair characterization, Your Honor.As a practical matter, it would be a tragedy. And we're well aware of the history. We're not up hereapologizing that we are disowning the history of race inGeorgia. We know what it is. The Attorney General knowswhat it is. But it would be a tragedy on the facts ofthis case to utilize that history to penalize what AfricanAmericans are trying to do -- tried to do in thisreapportionment under this evidence.Integration's working in Georgia. We have the th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC most politically integrated political system probably inthe United States.QUESTION: That's what we're supposed to, gointo which political party is better for which particulargroup of people?MR. WALBERT: No. We look at the success ofwhat the record unequivocally and without contradictiondemonstrates in terms of African American success in theState of Georgia, and it's a compelling record, YourHonor.It shows again that we have congressmen outof who are African American, percent district, percent district, percent district, and percentdistrict. Last one just elected -- CongressionalDistrict just created -- this reapportionment got two new districts. was open, percent, African Americanelected. African American elected in the last election ina percent multi-member house district. It's working.QUESTION: May I ask before -- before youconclude your argument, what is the status of thelitigation that's pending in the State court to resolvethe dispute between the Attorney General and the Governor?MR. WALBERT: Yes. There's oral argument nextweek on that, Your Honor, and we expect that to be decidedvery quickly. There is, of course, your favorable th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC decision from our position from the superior court. That's on direct appeal to the supreme court, oralargument next week and that will in all likelihood bedecided very, very promptly. So --And I think that -- what is the reason --putting all these facts aside, which are compelling, ifthis Court were to hold that section --QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. Walbert.MR. WALBERT: Thank you, Your Honor.CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: The case is submitted.(Whereupon, at : a.m., the case in theabove-entitled matter was submitted.) th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC 