 IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XPHILLIP T. BREUER, Petitioner ::v. : No. -JIM'S CONCRETE OF BREVARD. :- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XWashington, D.C.Wednesday, April , The above-entitled matter came on for oralargument before the Supreme Court of the United States at: a.m.APPEARANCES:DONALD E. PINAUD, JR., ESQ., Jacksonville, Florida; onbehalf of the Petitioner.ANDREW S. HAMENT, ESQ., Melbourne, Florida; on behalf ofthe Respondent.LISA S. BLATT, ESQ., Assistant to the Solicitor General,Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on behalf ofthe United States, as amicus curiae, supporting theRespondent. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC C O N T E N T SORAL ARGUMENT OF DONALD E. PINAUD, JR., ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioner ANDREW S. HAMENT, ESQ.On behalf of the Respondent LISA S. BLATT, ESQ.On behalf of the United States,as amicus curiae, supporting the Respondent REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OFDONALD E. PINAUD, JR., ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioner PAGE th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC P R O C E E D I N G S(: a.m.)CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: We'll hear argumentnow in Number -, Phillip T. Breuer versus Jim'sConcrete of Brevard.Mr. Pinaud.ORAL ARGUMENT OF DONALD E. PINAUD, JR.ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERMR. PINAUD: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court:This case is about the vitality and scope of therule of construction from Shamrock Oil that says that theremoval jurisdiction to Federal courts should be narrowlyconstrued.As we see it, the overarching question in this case is, as posed by respondent, whether or not the rulefrom Shamrock Oil applies to cases brought in State court,but based upon a Federal question. We think it has to forthree reasons, and I'd like to, if I can, list them, andthen I'll go back and -- and cover each of themindividually.First, respondent proposes an unworkabledistinction whereby the -- whereby Shamrock Oil is not tobe applied where a case is brought under the Fair LaborStandards Act alone, but it should be applied if it's th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC brought together with some State law claims.Secondly, Florida has a right to protect itscitizens.And thirdly, the Fair Labor Standards Act isjust -- just as much a part of the law of Florida as anyact of the Florida legislature or any decision of theFlorida courts.Let me cover that first point first, which isthe unworkable distinction.Respondent concedes that Shamrock Oil wouldcertainly apply in a situation where a State law claim wasbeing brought together with a Fair Labor Standards Actclaim. In this case we did not bring a State law claim. We only brought a Fair Labor Standards Act claim. Wecould have, but we didn't.If you were to -- if you were to have that rule,you would have a situation where whether or not Federaljurisdiction was proper would be wholly dependent uponwhether a State claim was brought with Federal action. Wedon't think that --QUESTION: But there are unworkable aspects toyour position, Mr. Pinaud. For example, a Title VII casecombined with an equal pay case, the equal pay case couldnot be removed, but the Title VII case could, and then youwould split what is essentially one controversy into two th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC parts because one is -- is not removable.MR. PINAUD: Well --QUESTION: The equal pay would be governed bythe same thing as --MR. PINAUD: There is --QUESTION: -- the Fair Labor Standards Act.MR. PINAUD: There is, I think, no question thatthe Equal Pay Act and the Age Discrimination Act -- AgeDiscrimination Enforcement Act would be covered by theCourt's decision in this case because the enforcementprovisions of those statutes are tied to the Fair LaborStandards Act.QUESTION: And if you're right -- if you'reright -- the equal pay case would have to stay in theState court, although the Title VII case could go forward in the Federal court.MR. PINAUD: That would be correct.The -- the second reason that I think ShamrockOil applies in this case is because Florida has a right toprotect its -- its citizens. This is a dispute betweenPhillip Breuer, Mr. Breuer, who is a resident of the Stateof Florida who lives in Duval County, who works for Jim'sConcrete of Brevard, which is a company in Brevard County,in an employment relationship that took place in Florida,governed by Florida law. They worked in many counties in th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC Florida. Certainly then Florida has an interest in thatrelationship and in this dispute. This is not a case likeAsahi where you have a -- a California court looking at adispute between a -- you know, a Taiwanese company and aJapanese company. Florida has an interest.The third point is that the Fair Labor StandardsAct is just as much a part of the law of Florida as anydecision of the Florida legislature or any -- or anyopinion of its court. Under the Supremacy Clause, thelaws of the United States are the laws of Florida. Florida courts have an obligation, an absolute duty, toenforce and uphold the Fair Labor Standards Act just likethey have to enforce and uphold the -- the FourthAmendment, the Fifth Amendment, the Fourteenth Amendment. It -- it would be unrealistic to say that Florida has an obligation to uphold these laws, but then has no right orno interest in having them upheld in -- in Florida courts.So for -- for those reasons, we think thatShamrock Oil certainly has to apply to this case.If you then go ahead and -- and apply theShamrock -- the Shamrock analysis to either the expresslyprovided language of or the maintain language of theFair Labor Standards Act, you have to reach a decisionthat these cases are -- are not properly to be subject toremoval. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC QUESTION: Well, one can certainly maintain anaction in the Florida courts, and unless it's removed, itwill continue there. I -- I -- it doesn't seem to me thatusing the word maintain means that the action mustnecessarily remain there.MR. PINAUD: Well, Mr. Chief Justice, obviouslyit's our position that maintain in this case does meanthat it should remain in State court, and we think it'sfor a couple of reasons.The first reason we would say is that once youapply the Shamrock analysis, maintain has to mean what wesay because in the very worst-case scenario, at least forour position, maintain is ambiguous or -- or capable oftwo different constructions. Everybody here has argued --the Government argues and respondent argues -- that it's ambiguous. Well, if it's ambiguous, if it's capable ofmeaning you can maintain to a conclusion in State court,or if it is, rather, capable of meaning that you can onlyreally bring or commence it, then under Shamrock Oil, whenwe apply that analysis, we should use the conclusion thatmost limits removal, which would be to -- which would beto say that maintain means you continue on to -- to finaljudgment.QUESTION: Well, except -- except that you havea later statute that says that it's removable unless -- th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC unless it is expressly provided otherwise.MR. PINAUD: Justice --QUESTION: And I don't think something that isambiguous expressly provides otherwise.MR. PINAUD: Well, Justice Scalia, I think whatyou have to do, though, is I think when looking at theexpressly -- expressly otherwise provided language, youhave to -- first, you have to apply Shamrock Oil to thatlanguage. Now, it's -- it's our position that whenCongress used the word expressly provided, otherwiseexpressly provided, it meant it in a textual sense.That is, the word expressly is capable of twodifferent meanings itself. It can mean super clear orabsolutely unambiguous, or rather, it can mean grounded insome text. Because it's capable of two different meanings, we think that when you apply Shamrock toexpressly, you choose the textual meaning because thetextual meaning shrinks removal considerably whereas theother meaning expands it. But I think --QUESTION: And your reading of the wordmaintain -- and your whole case hangs on that word,maintain -- suppose the case were brought initially in aFederal court, and there were -- there was a motion, a(a) transfer motion, to transfer the case from onedistrict court to another. I take it on your reading, th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC (a) couldn't apply either because you would have to --if the plaintiff chose to maintain it in one Federalcourt, therefore it couldn't be switched to another?MR. PINAUD: Justice Ginsburg, I -- I don'tthink that would be the case. I -- I don't think thatthat's really analogous to the situation of bringing itfrom the State court to the Federal court. It's --it's -- the -- the forum choice I think is significantlydifferent. When the employee brings his action in Statecourt, he's choosing that State -- that State forum, andit's for a reason. And -- and we think that -- that thosereasons are -- are actually well articulated in -- in theGovernment's brief when they were actually supportingour position. So I -- I don't think it's --QUESTION: But if you're relying on the language of the statute, maintain in any Federal or State court,any State court, any Federal court. So if you areconceding that you could transfer from one Federal courtto another, then the plaintiff's choice doesn't inevitablyprevail.MR. PINAUD: Well, I think then my -- my answerto that would have to be the rule from Shamrock Oil saysif there's two reasonable interpretations, we -- we make adecision that limits removal. I'm not sure it'sreasonable to say that if you bring it in one Federal th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC court, it can't be transferred to -- to another Federalcourt on -- on the -- the concerns would -- that wouldgive rise to it.If I could go back, just a moment, to what I wastalking about, the -- the expressly provided language,addressing your question, Justice Scalia. We also thinkthat the expressly provided language has to be the textualbasis based upon this -- this Court's construction of U.S.C. . That's the anti-injunction statute. Inthat statute, Congress has provided that no -- that noFederal court shall issue an injunction to enjoin a Statecourt proceeding unless expressly authorized by Congress. We're dealing with expressly provided language in . We see the language as completely indistinguishable.In Mitchum v. Foster, this Court construed that language in as saying, look, that language does notmean that you have to have a -- a statute that says youcan issue an injunction. Rather, what the Court said was,we look at the scope -- we look at the purpose and intentof the statute and say is the purpose of -- and intent ofthe statute to allow an injunction. So really, what theCourt is saying in -- in Mitchum --QUESTION: That was just a magic language case. I mean, I think all it was saying is you don't have to usethe -- the very words so long as you have clearly made th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC that disposition, but I don't know that I would go so faras to say that it -- it stands for the proposition thatsomething has been expressly provided for when there issimply an ambiguous provision that might be interpretedthat way, but then, on the other hand, might not beinterpreted that way, which is -- which is what I thinkyou have to fairly say about maintain.I -- I don't think your maintain argument goesanywhere unless you apply to it the -- the rule ofpreference that you're urging upon us, that -- that youhave to interpret it so as to prevent removal rather thanpermit it. But that -- that preference is eliminated bythe later statute unless you -- unless you interpret thatexpressly to mean that an ambiguous provision expresslyprovides, and I just find it hard -- hard to swallow that. And I just don't see any of our cases that -- do you havea case that deals with what was truly an ambiguousprovision and -- and nonetheless said that it expresslyprovided for something?MR. PINAUD: I -- I don't have -- there -- thereis no case that I know of that would be on point in -- inthis situation, Justice Scalia. But I would also add thatwe do not -- though we think that the first analysisshould start with Shamrock because -- the first analysisof maintain should start with Shamrock because at best th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC everyone -- everyone agrees that the statute is ambiguousand that is -- that is, that the respondent and theGovernment would say, well, it could mean this but maybeit doesn't. I don't think we say that it's -- thateverything hangs or falls on Shamrock necessarily.If you look at the way maintain was used in theFair Labor Standards Act, we think that the word maintainis an express prohibition -- prohibition on its own. Thisis not just our opinion. This was the opinion of the --of the majority of judges, the majority of courts thatconstrued the statute prior to the amendment. It wasalso the opinion of the United States back in .QUESTION: What's the reason? I mean, leavingthe word out of it, I mean, normally the background ruleis -- this is an -- case arising under Federal law, and the background rule through removal is if either partywants to go into Federal court, you can. Now, you saythere's an exception for this statute. Why?MR. PINAUD: We believe that the wordmaintain --QUESTION: I understand the linguistic point. I'm saying leave the linguistic point out. Why?MR. PINAUD: Justice Breyer, I'm not exactlysure why we --QUESTION: What -- what reason would there be th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC that people would want to make an exception for thisstatute, the normal -- I'm not saying there is none. Ijust want to know what the reason is. The -- thenormal -- I would be just repeating myself. Have you gotwhat I'm saying?MR. PINAUD: I -- I think I understand whatyou're saying now --QUESTION: Yes, all right.MR. PINAUD: -- Your Honor.The -- the reason why Congress wanted anexception in the Fair Labor Standards Act to allowemployees to bring these cases in -- in State court --QUESTION: Or Federal, yes. Give them a choice.MR. PINAUD: Well --QUESTION: Is because? They can bring it either place. Right?MR. PINAUD: Well, they can -- they can bring itin -- in either place. I mean, there would be no reasonwhy Congress --QUESTION: The reason why Congress would wantemployees to have a choice, but would not want thedefendant to have the choice or bring it to State court,unlike other Federal statutes is?MR. PINAUD: Because in , when this statutewas passed, it was difficult for many employees around the th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC country to -- to effectively vindicate their rights forunpaid overtime if they had to go to Federal court. Thisis --QUESTION: Mr. Pinaud, that's the same thingwith respect to the FELA, and -- and Congress thereforeexpressly provided that if a railroad worker brings a casein State court, it cannot be removed. And Congress wasresponding to the problem of the person who would find itdifficult to go to the big city to litigate in the Federalcourt rather than stay in the State court close to home. And so doesn't the -- the fact that Congress expresslyprovided that FELA cases are not removable cut againstyou?MR. PINAUD: Justice Ginsburg, I -- there arecertainly cases -- certainly statutes where Congress has said this is not removable. We don't think that Congressis to be held to a standard where they have to use magiclanguage in order to prohibit removal. We think thatthe -- the real analysis should be what was Congressintending by the statute at issue or else you --QUESTION: But -- but before the -- the --what was it -- what? -- before , were FELA casesremovable?MR. PINAUD: I'm not sure. I -- I will saythis. Before , you know, Congress had used language th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC in other statutes that said you can't remove it, and --and we recognize that. But if you -- if you hold Congressto this magic language statute, then -- then nothing theycould do or nothing they could intend would matter unlessthey use this specific language, and we're not sure thatthat's what the standard should be.QUESTION: But we have a string of specificstatutes, and then we have that lists in a rownon-removable actions, a catalog of actions that are notremovable. And this one is left out. Wouldn't one inferfrom that, well, they --MR. PINAUD: Well -- I'm sorry.The -- the Reviser's Notes to the -- the revisions are rather meticulous. They talk abouteverything they're accomplishing and what they're trying to do. I -- I think it's noteworthy that with all thechanges that were made to the other sections, likesection (c), the other subsections, that in order toaccept the proposition proposed by respondent, you wouldhave to conclude that Congress throughout, with theseother sections of , certainly intended to contractremoval, but yet with (a), it grossly expandedremoval. I mean, this is a time now where Fair LaborStandards Act cases were generally considered to be notremovable. That was the prevailing opinion. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC There's no mention in the -- in the Reviser'sNote or any of the history to the statute that -- thatCongress even thought about the Fair Labor Standards Act,so I think the more realistic assumption in the enactionof -- of that legislation was that Congress acceptedthe -- the prevailing opinion which was that maintain wasgood enough, that maintain was an express prohibitionagainst removal.The -- when you're looking at the word maintain,also I think it's to see obviously the -- the publicpolicy concerns that I was just addressing with JusticeBreyer, but we do think it's important, as did theGovernment back in , that in enacting thislegislation, as it was -- originally appeared back when itwas passed, Congress used the word maintain within words in the same sentence. Congress said an action maybe maintained in any court of competent jurisdiction, andthen words later, it said it may be maintained by anagent or representative of the employee. If you wereto -- if you were to assume that maintained does not meanwhat this Court essentially has said it meant in theGeorge Moore and Smallwood cases -- and that is thatmaintain means to -- to continue on -- to continue oruphold, continue on foot a suit already commenced --QUESTION: When -- when you say that the -- the th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC provision said it could be maintained by an employee, thatsounds more like a synonym for brought by the agent of theemployee, that the action could be brought an agent of theemployee, which of course does not help you.MR. PINAUD: Well, the way I think we look atit, Mr. Chief Justice, is certainly Congress could nothave meant by saying it could be maintained by an agent ofan employee that he can file it, bring it, and thensomehow have the case ripped from his control. That iswhy we think that if you --QUESTION: Well, but that -- that's the case inany case of a Federal statute covered by the removalstatute unless -- unless Congress says otherwise. I mean,to say it's ripped from his control by being removed, thathappens all the time.MR. PINAUD: Oh, no. I'm sorry, Mr. ChiefJustice. That -- that's not what I mean. I don't -- I'mtalking about when -- when the Fair Labor Standards Actwas originally enacted -- it -- it no longer appears withthis language.When it was originally enacted, it said, anaction under this section may be maintained in any courtof competent jurisdiction, which we all agree is --includes a State court. And it also said in the samesentence that that action can be maintained by an agent or th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC representative of the employee so that he didn't have todo it himself. Somebody else could do it for him.And the point that we're making is certainlywhen Congress said that that other person can maintain it,they didn't mean that that person could start the case andthen have the case ripped from him and have somebody elsetake it over. So if you -- if you --QUESTION: Well, ripped from him in what manner?MR. PINAUD: Well, that's exactly it, Mr. ChiefJustice. If -- if you were to accept the argumentproposed by respondent, you would have to accept thatthe -- the agent or representative of the employee in could file the case, but then after he filed it, somebodyelse or someone would have the authority to divest him ofhis right to prosecute it.QUESTION: Are -- are you talking about removal?MR. PINAUD: No.QUESTION: So you -- you -- when --MR. PINAUD: I'm --QUESTION: -- you say ripped from him, you'renot talking about the effect of removal.MR. PINAUD: No.QUESTION: What are you talking about?MR. PINAUD: I am talking about what could theword -- I -- I was responding to a -- a question by th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC Justice Ginsburg about the definition and -- and so forthof maintain. And the point I was making is that maintainhas to mean more than simply start or bring or somethinglike that just because, if for no other reason -- if youput aside Shamrock and you put aside the policy arguments,for no other reason that Congress in this statute, in theFair Labor Standards Act, when it enacted it, used themaintain twice, one to mean you can maintain the suit andone to mean that a person can maintain it for you on yourbehalf. And obviously, if Congress is going to give theemployee the right to have an agent maintain the suit forhim or her, certainly they didn't mean you can just bringit and then somehow, not for removal purposes, but youwon't have the authority any more to prosecute it.QUESTION: But you won't if the employee that you're representing says, I don't want you, I want anotherrepresentative. Then you can no longer maintain it.MR. PINAUD: Well, I -- that's -- I suppose thatwould probably be the -- be the case, but I -- I thinkthat's -- I think that's more -- that's more akin todismissal. I mean, if an employee brings a case in Statecourt and brings a case in Federal court, I mean, they canalways -- they wouldn't be maintaining it if theythemselves choose to -- to abandon it.QUESTION: No. He said, I -- I want -- the th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC employee says, I don't want you as my agent. I wantsomebody else.MR. PINAUD: Yes, Justice Ginsburg, but thatwould be the employee's decision. That would be nodifferent than saying an employee can maintain the case inState court when --QUESTION: I'm just questioning your -- yoursaying no one could -- you couldn't wrench the case fromthe agent because the word maintain is used. Well, ofcourse, the employee could wrench it from him and give itto somebody else.MR. PINAUD: Yes, Justice Ginsburg. Theemployee could wrench it from him just as the employee whowas maintaining his suit could choose to dismiss it. Imean, the employee controls the suit. I think it's more analogous to the -- to the employee's power --QUESTION: But nobody else could appoint anagent. So I can't see the other wrencher in the picture.MR. PINAUD: Well, if the -- the point I -- I amtrying to make is that if this representative ismaintaining the suit for the employee, if it only meansbring, then one could conceivably fashion reasons why thatperson wouldn't have a -- would not be able to continue onfoot that suit aside from the employee.I -- I know we're kind of dealing with -- with th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC the semantics of the word, but I think it's important toshow that the word means more than just bring or commence. At this same time also -- and we've cited the statutes inour brief -- the -- the Government passed a whole host oflaws where they used words like bring and commence. Whychoose the word maintain if it doesn't mean something --something more in -- in this case?Also -- and I know I've mentioned this a coupletimes -- the word maintain itself -- it was the prevailingopinion back then, before , that maintain was express. That is the exact language that the Government used in itsbrief filed in the Johnson case, that this was an expressprohibition against removal. So these are the people thatlived contemporaneous at the time, that understood the --the public policy arguments of it, that understood the --the semantics of it, that understood presumably the intentof it. And we think that that -- those are entitled tosome weight.There's -- you know, there is another argumentthat is addressed by respondent that, you know, Statecourt judges are -- are not competent to handle these --these kind of things. Or I shouldn't say competent, butthey're not experienced enough to handle it and so forthand so on. We don't think that that's realistic. Statecourts handle matters of Federal jurisdiction all the th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC time. We depend upon State courts to interpret theConstitution and properly apply the Fourth, Fifth, otheramendments. There's no reason why they -- they can'thandle Fair Labor Standards Act cases, and they handlethem all the time. We filed many -- we have brought manyFair Labor Standards Act cases. Most are removed toFederal court because removing to Federal court makes thecase take a lot longer.QUESTION: No one would suggest that a Statecourt isn't competent to hear an ordinary tort case, anordinary contract case, but if there's a diversity ofcitizenship, it can be removed to the Federal court. Removal doesn't mean that the State court is in -- in anyrespect incompetent.MR. PINAUD: I agree. I don't think removal means that the State court is incompetent. I -- I wasaddressing an argument made that essentially that, well,State court judges don't have enough experience, they'renot -- Federal courts are better at handling these things. I don't think that that's fair nor realistic. Statecourts handle these matters all the time.Fair Labor Standards Act cases are not overlycomplex. They're certainly not as complicated asTitle VII cases which States handle all the time andhandle their own similar anti-discrimination cases all the th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC time. So there -- there's just no -- that particularargument made by respondent we don't believe has muchimport.Mr. Chief Justice, I'd like to reserve thebalance of my time.QUESTION: Fine, Mr. Pinaud.MR. PINAUD: Thank you.QUESTION: Mr. Hament.ORAL ARGUMENT OF ANDREW S. HAMENTON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTMR. HAMENT: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court:Since , a defendant in a civil action hashad a right to remove a case arising under Federal law toa U.S. district court. This right is currently codified in U.S.C. (a), which authorizes a civil action --the removal of a civil action of which the Federaldistrict court has original jurisdiction except asotherwise expressly -- otherwise expressly prohibited byan act of Congress. The except as otherwise expresslyprovided language was added in .The court below correctly ruled that respondenthad a right to remove this case for three reasons.First, the plain language of (a) whichallows removal of a case arising under Federal law, such th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC as a Fair Labor Standards Act case, unless Congress hasexpressly prohibited removal. There is nothing in thetext of the Fair Labor Standards Act or its legislativehistory which even mentions the word removal much lessexpressly prohibits it.Second, Congress has explicitly prohibitedremoval in a series of enactments, and when it has doneso, it has used very explicit language directly referringto removal.Third, the words, may be maintained, in anycourt -- or any Federal or State court of competentjurisdiction in the Fair Labor Standards Act is identicalto language that Congress has used in other statutes,including the Family Medical Leave Act and the EmployeePolygraph Protection Act. If this Court were to rule that removal is barred under the Fair Labor Standards Act, thenthis would affect those statutes. And again, there isnothing in the text of those statutes which suggests thatCongress was attempting to prohibit removal. The word isnot mentioned in the text or the legislative history.When Congress has prohibited removal in a seriesof statutes, starting in , it has very directly usedthe word removal, and this has happened both before andafter it enacted the Fair Labor Standards Act in .In fact, in , Congress created a section of th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC the -- Title under section and entitled itNon-Removable Actions.In , Congress stated that certainrailroad -- cases against railroads under the FederalEmployer Liability Act, FELA, that actions arising underthose laws may not be removed -- used the words, may notbe removed.In , Congress passed an enactment statingthat certain actions against common carriers may not beremoved.In , they passed the Securities Act and usedthe words, shall not be removed.So these laws were in place using very directlanguage when the Fair Labor Standards Act was enacted in.Since the Fair Labor Standards Act was enacted,we have examples of four different laws that were passedby Congress, some in (a), some stand alone, that usethe words, may not be removed or shall not be removed. The last one was the actions under the Violence AgainstWomen's Act of . So we know from example afterexample what Congress had in mind in when it used thewords, except as other expressly provided.QUESTION: But the Wage and Hour Divisiondidn't. In , it expressed the opinion that Fair Labor th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC Standards Act cases were not removable.MR. HAMENT: Number one, Justice Ginsburg, atthis point the Department of Labor has changed theirposition, and I think that's because of the addition in of the very express standard that except as otherwiseexpressly provided by an act of Congress, this type ofcase would be removable.QUESTION: Well, what do we care what theirposition is? This is not a matter that's within theiradministration, is it? Do they administer the -- theremovability of matters in -- in Federal courts?MR. HAMENT: No, Your Honor.QUESTION: So, you know, their -- their view onthat matter is -- is no more persuasive than -- thanyours, if I may say so.(Laughter.)QUESTION: And yours might be very persuasive. They have the --(Laughter.)QUESTION: They have the power to persuade, andthey're knowledgeable.MR. HAMENT: Respondent's relying on the view ofCongress which set forth a very clear standard in (a)that these types of actions are removable unless expresslyprohibited, and we're relying on Congress. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC QUESTION: Is your position they were neverremovable or that the law changed in ?MR. HAMENT: Our position is that they werenever removable.QUESTION: And the -- the Department was justwrong on its opinion.MR. HAMENT: Correct, Your Honor.QUESTION: Though what he I guess was driving atis what the -- in , the year I was born, I'm in SanFrancisco, but there are a lot of workers down in Salinasputting artichokes in cans. And their employer perhapswas violating the law, so they go into the State court inSalinas and the employer runs up to San Francisco. Andonce he can remove that case to San Francisco, it's tooexpensive for the employee to run up there. And that waswhy your opponent says they -- they wrote this statute. They used the word maintained, and the administrator whowas present at the creation, so to speak, had followedthat for quite a long period of time.Now, you're -- you're saying look at thelanguage. The language just isn't good enough. Is thereanything else you want to add on that?MR. HAMENT: Well, Justice Breyer --QUESTION: You know, on the purposive part.MR. HAMENT: Yes. Yes. Justice Breyer, th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC there -- there is no legislative history to support thatCongress was intending to prohibit removal for that orfor -- or for any other reason. And -- and yes, in --there are small claims that are possible under the FairLabor Standards Act, but there are also very large claims,including very large collective actions. If Congresswanted to put a limit on the amount of claim that could bebrought in a Federal court, then Congress could certainlydo that, as it has done in other statutes, and as -- as ithas also done in limiting removal of certain cases basedon amount. But Congress hasn't chosen to do that.Turning to the point of the effect of a rulingthat these words, may be maintained, could bar removalunder the Fair Labor Standards Act, as mentioned and ascounsel for the petitioner concedes, this would also prohibit removal under the Family Medical Leave Act, theEmployee Polygraph Protection Act --QUESTION: Well, it might if you -- it might notif you, in fact, did put considerable weight on theknowledgeable views of the -- of the administrators whowere present at that time and the presence of a goodreason for wanting to have achieved that result. I -- Igrant you, I see problems with the approach I'menunciating, but -- but it wouldn't necessarily changethose other acts. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC MR. HAMENT: I -- I think the problem would bethat the Court would have to -- to eliminate from (a)the expressly provided otherwise language to -- to achievethat result.QUESTION: Is it meant to apply retroactively in to those statutes passed preceding ?MR. HAMENT: I believe -- I believe it was. Ifyou look at the timing of the addition of that language in, at that time, the right to remove didn't have theexpressly provided otherwise exception. It just was aright to remove, and it was at that time codified in U.S.C., section , which had the right to remove.But coupled in that same paragraph were twoexamples of cases where Congress said there was no rightto remove, the FELA action and the action under the Interstate Commerce Act dealing with loss of -- or injuryunder certain actions against common carriers. So rightin the same paragraph was this language, may not removethese two types of cases.When they reorganized, they moved that languageto -- -- and I think they were just makingclear, when they left the right to remove, that they mayfrom time to time, as they have, expressly prohibitremoval of certain actions. So I -- I think the -- theaddition of that language changed nothing. It is just th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC simply adopting what the Congress had already applied as astandard.QUESTION: Are you saying then what it did wasto clarify what was ambiguous before, and theclarification made it apparent that the Wage and HourDivision had been wrong? Is that -- is that yourargument?MR. HAMENT: I would be a little disingenuous ifI said I think that Congress had looked to the Wage andHour brief or the Johnson decision in doing that. I'm notsure that they did and my guess is --QUESTION: But in any -- in any event, theyclarified --MR. HAMENT: Right.QUESTION: -- what they did in so the error of the Wage and Hour Division --MR. HAMENT: To the extent they --QUESTION: -- meaning --MR. HAMENT: -- considered it, they overruled itbecause Johnson in that case, although it reached the rulethat -- that there was no removal by implication, saidrepeatedly in the decision that Congress was not clear inexpressing its intent. So to the extent that Congress waspaying attention to Johnson, it overruled it with theexpressly provided other language in . th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC If removal were barred in this case, just tofinish on the point of the effect on these other laws, youcould have a very problematic situation, which I'm sureCongress never intended, of having, for example, an agediscrimination case which would not be removable under theADEA, but a race discrimination case under Title VII thatis removable, or a handicap or disability discriminationcase under the American with Disabilities Act which wouldbe removable. You'd have ERISA claims which would beremovable, but not claims for leave benefits under theFamily Medical Leave Act. You'd have a Title VII sexdiscrimination claim due to unequal pay that would beremovable, but not an Equal Pay Act case under the FairLabor Standards Act. And again, there's no indicationthat Congress, in using the words, may be maintained -- it simply confers right of action -- would have ever intendedthis effect.Finally, I'd like to just briefly addresspetitioner's argument in the reply brief dealing withMitchum v. Foster. They're arguing that there's similarlanguage in the anti-injunction statute which says thatexcept as expressly authorized, a State courtinjunction -- a -- a Federal court may not enjoin a Statecourt, and relies on Mitchum. This reliance is misplaced.First, the underlying law in Mitchum was the th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC Civil Rights Act, the U.S.C. action. And theCourt determined that the power to enjoin a State courtunder that statute was inherent in the necessary andindispensable power to remedy civil rights violations. And the -- the right to enjoin State court actions wasabsolutely essential to the purpose of .Second, the Court observed that it had a longhistory of making exceptions to the anti-removal statutewithout directly referring to the anti-removal statute orState court injunctions.And third, in --QUESTION: Are you talking about theAnti-Injunction Act or the anti-removal statute?MR. HAMENT: Anti-injunction statute, I'm sorry.And third, in Vendo Company versus Lektro, this Court said that the fact that in Mitchum there was nodirect reference to the anti-injunction statute or stayingState court injunctions was cured by the fact that therewas relevant legislative history.None of those factors are present here. Obviously, the Fair Labor Standards Act does not rise andfall on this removal issue. Second, Congress hasrepeatedly made exceptions very expressly and directlyreferring to removal when it made an exception. Andthird, there is no legislative history. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC For these reasons, the respondent respectfullyrequests that this Court affirm the Eleventh Circuit'sdecision that this case was removable.QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. Hament.Ms. Blatt, we'll hear from you.ORAL ARGUMENT OF LISA S. BLATTON BEHALF OF THE UNITED STATES,AS AMICUS CURIAE, SUPPORTING THE RESPONDENTMS. BLATT: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice, andmay it please the Court:The general policy of the removal statute is togive the defendant the same right as the plaintiff to havehis case heard in Federal court. The removal statuteachieves that objective by permitting the defendant toremove an action to -- to Federal court if the plaintiff could have originally filed his suit there.There is no dispute in this case that theplaintiff could have filed this action in Federal courteven had the -- even had the defendant preferred thatthe -- that a State court adjudicate the dispute. Thepolicies underlying the removal statute are thereforeserved by giving the defendant the same right to insistupon a Federal forum.Now, the removal statute creates a narrowexception to this policy when another statute expressly th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC bars removal. And Congress has foreclosed removal in anumber of statutes in direct and explicit terms byproviding most notably in section of Title that,quote, a civil action in any State court may not beremoved, or in other statutes that no case brought in anyState court shall be removed. There is no similarprohibition in the Fair Labor Standards Act, which doesnot address the issue of removal at all.The language in the Fair Labor Standards Actproviding that an action may be maintained in any Federalor State court of competent jurisdiction does notexpressly foreclose removal. Rather, it grants anemployee a cause of action over which State and Federalcourts have concurrent jurisdiction.The language does not purport to trump or override generally applicable rules that affect thedisposition of the proceeding such as whether the actionmay be stayed or transferred under other express statutoryprovisions.QUESTION: What you're saying sounds sosensible. Why was it that a number of Federal courtsdidn't get it, Ms. Blatt? There was quite a division ofauthority on this question and the Wage and Hour Divisionoriginally took the other view.QUESTION: You want to be very careful about th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC answering how Federal courts don't get things.(Laughter.)MS. BLATT: There was division and there stillis division today, but we think that the revisionmakes amply clear that what's required is an express bar. And when compared to the established template of the otherstatutes where Congress has foreclosed jurisdiction indirect, unambiguous terms, it makes clear that the -- thecorrect answer is that the actions are subject to removal.And the example I wanted to give was about whythe word maintain doesn't speak to how the action may bedisposed of under other provisions was a bankruptcypetition. Under Federal law that would operate to staythe continuation of any judicial proceeding, and a similarresult would hold true under State and Federal venue provisions. And we think the same result is true under aFederal removal legislation.There's nothing in the Fair Labor Standards Actthat suggests that the plaintiff's initial choice of aState law -- State court forum must prevail over thedefendant's express statutory right to remove an actionunder section (a), and we think the employee's rightto sue accordingly is subject to removal.And the only thing I -- I'd like to address inresponse to the petitioner's argument is this principle of th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC narrow construction. We don't think that principleapplies for basically two reasons.And the first is that because there was nodispute about the Federal court's jurisdiction to hearthis case, again notwithstanding Florida's interest in thecase or even if the -- had the defendant preferred theState court forum, the plaintiff could have insisted thatthe Federal court hear the dispute. And thus the onlyrelevant inquiry is not one of narrow interpretation, butit's a standard that's set forth on the -- under the plainterms of the statute itself, and that is whether anotherstatute expressly bars removal. And we think for thereasons that have been given, even if one were to apply aprinciple of narrow construction, it would not beplausible to construe the word maintain as an express bar to removal.And for those reasons, we would urge that thisCourt affirm the judgment of the Eleventh Circuit.QUESTION: Thank you, Ms. Blatt.Mr. Pinaud, you have minutes remaining.REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF DONALD E. PINAUD, JR.ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERMR. PINAUD: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice.Justice Ginsburg, you had asked respondent aquestion about whether or not the -- the amendments th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC could have in any way been intended to -- to clarify theremovability of Fair Labor Standards Act cases. And as --as I think I mentioned earlier, I -- I just wanted to add,I think respondent agreed with that. I don't agreebecause, as I stated, if you look through the Reviser'sNotes, they -- they are extraordinarily meticulous. Theylist what they are doing and why --QUESTION: I didn't ask whether they intendedto. I asked whether they did. I don't know that -- thatCongress paid any attention to this particular Johnsonagainst Butler Brothers case.MR. PINAUD: Oh, no. No, it did not. Itcertainly did not. And I -- I think that is important.I -- I think also that these public policyconcerns that -- that Justice Breyer was -- was discussing, these are really very important concerns thatwe don't think should be overlooked. This is a time whereyou don't have an interstate highway system. You don'thave a whole lot of time -- a whole lot of lawyers whowant to practice in Federal court or who can practice inFederal court. There were claims at the time for as lowas -- as low as $. Even the cases today, when they'reindividually brought, they're not typically enormouscases. These are -- these are employees suing for theirwages, trying to have an opportunity to -- to collect them th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC without it being inordinately long or inordinatelyimpractical. Nobody is going to take a case for $ or$.QUESTION: Was there ever a proposal made inCongress to give workers who have FLSA claims the sameexpress provision that is there for railroad workers?MR. PINAUD: Not that we know of, but it's ourposition that that would be because Congress, at the timeit passed this law, believed it was express, that that wasthe prevailing opinion, and that even now that was stillthe opinion of about half of -- about half of the courts,half of -- half of the district courts. You know, thisis -- district courts every day -- in fact, after this --I think just before this Court granted certiorari, therewas a district court in -- in Texas that said, absolutely these cases need to be staying in State court.So I think Congress didn't get -- I don't knowwhy Congress didn't get involved in it, but I would thinkit would be because they thought maintained was expressenough, that maintain was good enough.Mr. Chief Justice, if there are no furtherquestions, I have nothing further.QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. Pinaud.MR. PINAUD: Thank you.CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: The case is submitted. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC (Whereupon, at : a.m., the case in theabove-entitled matter was submitted.) th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC 