 IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES- - - - - - - - - - - - - -XOFFICE OF INDEPENDENT COUNSEL, Petitioner :::v. : No. -ALLAN J. FAVISH, ET AL. :- - - - - - - - - - - - - -XWashington, D.C.Wednesday, December , The above-entitled matter came on for oralargument before the Supreme Court of the United States at: a.m.APPEARANCES:PATRICIA A. MILLETT, ESQ., Assistant to the SolicitorGeneral, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; onbehalf of the Petitioner.JAMES HAMILTON, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; for Respondents Anthony and Moody; on behalf of the Petitioner.ALLAN J. FAVISH, ESQ., Santa Clarita, California; onbehalf of the Respondent Favish. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. C O N T E N T SORAL ARGUMENT OF PATRICIA A. MILLETT, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioner JAMES HAMILTON, ESQ.For respondents Anthony and Moody, On behalf of the Petitioner ALLAN J. FAVISH, ESQ.On behalf of the Respondent Favish REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OFPATRICIA A. MILLETT, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioner PAGE th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. P R O C E E D I N G S(: a.m.)CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: We'll hear argumentnow in No. -, the Office of Independent Counsel v.Allan J. Favish.Ms. Millett.ORAL ARGUMENT OF PATRICIA MILLETTON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERMS. MILLETT: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court:In the course of their investigative work,Federal law enforcement officials, of necessity, routinelycome into possession of substantial amounts of highlysensitive and highly personal information. Sometimes thatinformation includes graphic death scene and autopsyphotographs. Those photographs are taken for the limitedand restricted use of law enforcement and public safetyofficials. They are not freely available to the generalpublic as a matter of law, custom, or practice.The question presented in this case is whetherdeath scene photographs should be broadly disclosed to thegeneral public under the Freedom of Information Act. Theyshould not. The Freedom of Information Act's purpose isnot maximum disclosure, but responsible disclosure, andthe publication of death scene photographs goes beyond the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. bounds of responsible disclosure, because in the terms ofexemption (C), production could reasonably be expected toconstitute an unwarranted invasion of the personal privacyof surviving family members.In ordering the release of four photographs inthis case, the court of appeals recognized that thatsubstantial intrusion on privacy would occur, but it thencommitted three errors in assessing the countervailingpublic interest in disclosure.QUESTION: Must there be identifiable familymembers to suffer this invasion of privacy? Would it justbe automatic instead? The - a scene like this, you wouldassume that there was someone?MS. MILLETT: No, the - the practice of the Federal Government is that we need to identify theexistence of a survivor. There was a case in the D.C. -excuse me - District Court, named Outlaw, that I believewas cited in respondent's brief, where the Department ofDefense had asserted survivor privacy without having firstidentified a survivor, and that was held to beimpermissible, and as a matter of practice, because thisis sort of specialized application of privacy interest,the Government identifies a survivor before invoking it. But that is often not a difficult job because the types ofrecords that bring the photos to us, law enforcement th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. records, military records when it's a military servicemember who's been autopsied, will often contain, or allowthe identification, of family members.QUESTION: And if you're so unfortunate as not tohave survivors, or to have survivors who don't like you,the most embarrassing and gory photographs of your bodycan be released?MS. MILLETT: Well, Justice Scalia, that has beenthe practice after the Outlaw decision of the FederalGovernment. It - it's not inconceivable to me thatbecause you're talking about an objective test, at leastunder (C) - some of these photographs are held - upheldunder - or withheld under exemption , which doesn't havethe same objective test language. It's not inconceivablethat the Government could justify withholding, in asituation like after the collapse of the World TradeCenter towers, and their substantial amounts of - sorry,but, for the graphic nature - but partial remains thatcan't be matched with particular individuals. But we know that for some significant percentageof those people, there are a significant percentage ofsurvivors on a match for match. In that case, I think wewould argue should not be required and that withholdingcould be done because we -QUESTION: But only on the assumption that there th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. are survivors?MS. MILLETT: On the assumption that there - areasonable - obviously, a reasonable assumption -QUESTION: I don't know why that's necessary. Idon't know why you - you can't say, and I think somecourts have held, have they not, that - that there is aprivacy interest in the - in the person who's died?MS. MILLETT: For the most part, courts have saidthat privacy dies with the individual, but again, theproblem in this case is the Ninth Circuit didn't think wewere withholding too little. It rule - it ruled that wewere withholding too much that - and that, in fact, whenthere are known survivors, these - these disturbingphotographs still have to be released. And in doing that, they committed three errors.QUESTION: Before we get to that though, on thequestion that was asked, if there are no survivors, giventhat the main rule of FOIA is disclosed, unless you fallunder an exemption, and exemptions are to be narrowlyconstrued, I don't think the - the Government couldsuppose, could hypothesize an interest that may or may nothave existed in the decedent when there are no survivors.MS. MILLETT: Well, Justice Ginsburg, that hasbeen the Government's practice, is to identify a survivor,but again, I think our position is, because the nature of th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. our world has changed and we now have to deal withsituations involving mass deaths, that we aren't going toinsist when you have a large collection of remains and weknow that for some percentage of those there - there aresurvivors, that withholding would still be permissible.QUESTION: But why is that any less of a leapthan saying the deceased - the deceased's privacy is beinginvaded? Why is it less of a leap to say that the privacy- the privacy of the survivors is being invaded? Itdoesn't seem to me that it's - it's their privacy that'sbeing invaded. It's - it's their - their sensitivity,various other things, but - but it seems to me strange tospeak of their having a privacy interest. Surely theyhave an interest in not having their - their - their relative displayed this way, but I - I wouldn't normallycall that a privacy interest.MS. MILLETT: Well, Justice Scalia, the commonlaw - a number of common law courts did, and they did -and we cite - one of the very first common law courts everto recognize the right to privacy, in , the Schuler v.Curtis case, which is cited in our reply brief, foundexactly a privacy interest in the survivors, and it saidit is not the privacy interest of the deceased, becauseunder the common law tradition, privacy dies with theindividual. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. But what's being protected here is thesurvivors. It sort of takes three forms, first of all,their - their memory of the deceased, their ability toprovide a dignified disposition of the body, and theability to have seclusion in their grief and repose andclosure. And those concepts packaged together have beenrecognized as a privacy right, both at tort law by anumber of courts, and more broadly, by custom and practicein this country. These types of photographs are notfreely available virtually anywhere. A large number ofstates, as we've cited in our brief, prevent theirdisclosure or have restrictions on their disclosure.QUESTION: Well, I guess we're, in this case,asked to apply FOIA's exemption (C) to interpret it anyway.MS. MILLETT: Yes.QUESTION: Right?MS. MILLETT: Yes.QUESTION: So that's what we're focused on.MS. MILLETT: Yes.QUESTION: And what do you propose as the test?MS. MILLETT: The test - the test is, as thisCourt has - to decide whether a - a invasion of privacy isclearly unwarranted, you have to weigh and balance theintrusion on privacy against the extent to which the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. information disclosed would, in this Court's ReportersCommittees decision, contribute significantly to publicunderstanding of the operations or activities of theFederal Government. And in this case, on one side of thebalance is a substantial intrusion on privacy, requiring -exposing this sort of information out where familymembers will see it, encounter it, where they will knowthat their - that their loved one has not been buried inany sense.QUESTION: Is that the test that the CADC used inthe Accuracy in Media case involving these same photos?MS. MILLETT: They used a - the same balancing. They recognized the -QUESTION: So whatever you're proposing, you think the CADC correctly employed in that case?MS. MILLETT: The - there - with - with onequalification, which I don't think is a distinction -don't think it's a distinction that makes a difference. Certainly on the privacy interest side, they agreed withus that there's a survivor privacy interest and that thathas to be balanced under this Court's Reporters Committeestandard. Now, the D.C. Circuit has said with - when thepublic interest that's asserted is substantial allegation,or is unsubstantiated allegations of governmental th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. misconduct, that's not enough. They require compellingevidence of governmental misconduct to overcome thepresumption of regularity. We've articulated the test isclear as evidence. I don't think in practice there's anydifference. We've employed the clear evidence standardbecause that's the standard this Court has adopted forovercoming a presumption of regularity.QUESTION: I'm - I'm - I'm glad you backed offfrom compelling evidence. It seems to me if there werecompelling evidence of Government's misdoing, you wouldn'tneed the photographs. If it was already compelling, thephotographs would - would not prove anything additionaland you would - you would reject it for that reason,right?MS. MILLETT: That may - that may well be. Thecompelling - the way the compelling evidence standardworks, as we understand it, and the way the clear evidencestandard works that we propose is not that that means youget the photographs. It just means that you havesomething of weight on your side of the balance. We thinkthe unsubstantiated allegations of governmental misconductare worth virtually none, if no weight -QUESTION: But are the - does the term compellinginterest refer to the allegations that the person seekingthe photographs makes, or the evidence he has supporting th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. his position?MS. MILLETT: It has to be the - the evidence ofgovernmental misconduct. Empty allegations -QUESTION: Independently of what the - thephotographs themselves would show?MS. MILLETT: That - I mean, that presumably willnot be the evidence, right, you can't just come say that -that would be sort of boot-strapping to say that theevidence is the - I have to see that so that I will havemy evidence of your governmental misconduct, whichessentially -QUESTION: Okay, tell me again what - what thetest is as you - you understand it.MS. MILLETT: The - the test - you mean with respect to unsubstantiated allegations of governmentalmisconduct?QUESTION: Yes.MS. MILLETT: That is that the FOIA requestermust come forward with clear evidence of governmentalmisconduct on their own, independent evidence on theirown, to have a cognizable public interest to weigh againstthe intrusion on privacy that has occurred in this case. And that is the standard that this - the clear evidencestandard comes from this Court's decisions, which say thatis the quantum of evidence needed to overcome the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. presumption of regularity and legitimacy that attaches inthis case to law enforcement investigations.QUESTION: Does the Government - does theGovernment - as I understand FOIA, the Government has theburden of proof, the Government presents an exemption andit is the Government's burden to show that the exemptionapplies, not the requester, because going in, am I rightto say, the requester can ask for this information for anyreason or no reason?MS. MILLETT: That - that's - with respect -until an exemption is triggered, there's no need to haveany reason for your FOIA. You can have a good reason, abad reason, or no reason to ask for information, but -QUESTION: So what is the Government's burden that it has, at least the initial burden is on theGovernment to show what?MS. MILLETT: The - the initial burden on theGovernment is once an exemption - we have to show that anexemption is triggered. We have to, in this situation,identify a cognizable privacy interest which -QUESTION: Now, after you point to which number,, you point to (C) and that - that - the burden must bemore than just, say -MS. MILLETT: No, that - that's right, in fact,we get the written steps. We have to identify a th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. cognizable privacy interest and then, before we make adecision to withhold, we ourselves must make the - mustbalance. It's our job to do this balancing before weinvoke an exemption, so we ourselves will then try toidentify if we can from the requester's papers or on ourown what public interest would be served by the disclosureof these documents. Now, it's not the particular interest of therequester, but it's the relationship between this documentand serving the public interest that was identified inReporters Committee of revealing the operations oractivities of the Government. So in this case, we looked,we found a substantial privacy interest here, and then welooked at photographs of a deceased body at a death scene and in our judgement, these reveal nothing about theoperations or activities of the Office of IndependentCounsel and - and -QUESTION: Ms. Millett, you - you - you say thatyou have to show clear evidence of - have clear evidenceof government misconduct. What do you mean by misconduct? What - what has been brought forward here, at least, aresome disparities in - in various governmental reports,which suggest that at least there was negligence orsloppiness in some of the reports. Is that enough toestablish what you mean by governmental misconduct? Or th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. does it have to be some willful cover-up?MS. MILLETT: Justice Scalia, first of all, Idon't think there's any evidence of negligence orsloppiness here, but if we adopt that -QUESTION: All right, well, we - we'll get tothat, I assume, right? Okay.MS. MILLETT: If we adopt that characterization,the fact that someone cannot - can identify something morethat they should have been done, or the fact that - thatthey disagree with the ultimate result, is notgovernmental misconduct. The type of thing that mightrise - that - that might count, is something that was - ifyou had evidence that, you know, governmentalinvestigators had suborned perjury, and you had evidence in the form of -QUESTION: Willful? Has to be willful?MS. MILLETT: I'm sorry?QUESTION: Has to be willful? It cannot be justa sloppy job? Why - why isn't that of interest to thepublic?MS. MILLETT: I don't - I - I don't think - well,if - if they've got evidence of a sloppy job, then FOIAhas already worked. They can - the purpose of FOIA is not- it's not a (b) motion to reopen an investigation or tomake us investigate more. It's to see - learn what the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. Government did and then critique it as much as you like.QUESTION: Okay. Why - why then do you take the- I'm sorry - why - why do you take the position that tosatisfy the - the - the condition of revealing theoperation of the Government, it's necessarily got toreveal something to the discredit of the Government? Whatif someone came along and said, I think this was a superbinvestigation, and the Government is far too modest aboutwhat it has done, and I - I want the country to know? Would - would that support a claim?MS. MILLETT: Well, Justice Souter, let me bevery clear. We're talking here about the allegations ofmisconduct because that is the public interest that isasserted. One might be able to -QUESTION: Right, but if misconduct - my - thereason I'm raising the question is, if misconduct does nothave to be shown, I suppose that would have a bearing onthe degree of misconduct in a case like this that would -that would suffice.MS. MILLETT: Well, a public interest has to beidentified at some point, and the problem with this caseis, or the problem -QUESTION: No, but what about my question for aminute?MS. MILLETT: Right. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. QUESTION: Why is - why is it an illegitimatepublic interest for somebody to come along and say, I wantto make the Government look good. They are hiding theirlight under a bushel. I - I want the people to know how -how fine they've done. Why is that not a - a possiblelegitimate objective under the statute?MS. MILLETT: Well, I think that - that - that issort of nothing more than - than a desire to show what theGovernment did in this investigation, transparency ingovernment interest, which is the point of FOIA. But onceyou've come to an - applying an exemption, you're going toneed something more on your side than just serving thegeneral interests that FOIA itself advances, becauseotherwise, the exemption doesn't work as an exemption. You have to want - want something more than transparencyin government.Now, it may not be that you have to showmisconduct. You might be able to do it because there'ssome other sort of acute public interest that's going tooutweigh it, but I think in the end, the public interestin making the Government look good or telling theGovernment - tell the public more about what theGovernment did is never going to be enough to outweigh theprivacy interests of individuals. You can do that withthe substantial amounts of disclosures that have already th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. been made.I would like to reserve the balance of my timefor rebuttal.QUESTION: Very well, Ms. Millett.We'll hear from you, Mr. Hamilton.ORAL ARGUMENT OF JAMES HAMILTONFOR RESPONDENTS ANTHONY AND MOODYON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERMR. HAMILTON: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court: There are five basic reasons why the privacyinterest at issue in this case should be protected. First, the Foster family seeks to protect their own,wholly legitimate privacy interests. The privacy interests here of the family are to be free from seeingthese photographs on television and in grocery storetabloids, to be free from the knowledge that thesephotographs are displayed in virtual perpetuity onghoulish Web sites that show death and carnage, to be freefrom the harassment by the media that inevitably willfollow if these photographs are released.Second, while FOIA privacy protection isbroader, there is significant common law authority that asurvivor's right of privacy is violated by showingphotographs of deceased loved ones. The Restatement of th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. Torts recognizes this, so does Reid v. Pierce County, a decision by the Supreme Court of Washington, en banc,which allowed a cause of action for displaying the autopsyphotographs of former Governor, Washington Governor, DixieLee Ray, at cocktail parties.Third, every FOIA case that has examined theissue has found that in appropriate circumstances,survivors have a proper - a privacy interest. The NinthCircuit and the D.C. Circuit did so in the cases involvingthese photographs. There is a opinion in the D.C.Circuit of Badhwar v. Air Force that does so regardingautopsy reports, and Justice Ginsburg joined in thatopinion.QUESTION: Mr. Hamilton, assume we agree with you on all of that. We haven't heard anything about the other- the other half of the inquiry, and that is what thepublic interest is in - that might overcome that - that -that privacy interest. I'm sure the other side is goingto - is going to talk about that, the - the allegeddiscrepancies in the reports and whatnot. Can - can youshed some light on that?MR. HAMILTON: Well, Justice Scalia, we thinkthat there is no public interest on the other side. Wethink as - as counsel for the Solicitor General has said,that there's a strong evidence test for showing that there th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. is government - government misconduct where that is theallegation of the public interest, which is the situationhere. A - a number of courts have said that the testshould be compelling evidence. The D.C. Circuit has donethat in several cases. The Fourth Circuit has done it. Other circuits have come to other standards in - in termsof what the public interest should be, but it must besomething that is strong, that is not insubstantial.Secondly, in determining what the publicinterest is, the Court must be aware that there have beenfive investigations, five investigations of Mr. Foster'sdeath, and all of them have found that he died by suicide. These investigations have released over , documentsover -QUESTION: Yes, but it seems to me that the -arguably, the interest in disclosure might not challengethe ultimate conclusion, but rather they might contend -want to show that one of the team of investigators wastotally incompetent, and it was necessary to have three orfour other investigations to reach the correct result. Idon't think the ultimate conclusion necessarily answersthe - the claim that there may be some public interest inhow the investigation was conducted.MR. HAMILTON: Well, Justice Stevens, the - (C)requires a balancing, and when you have this balance, you th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. have to weigh whatever the public interest is against theprivacy interest. And here, where there have been fiveinvestigations, where the reports are voluminous, wherethe documents released and the photographs alreadyreleased are voluminous, it is very difficult to see whatthe public interest is in getting these photographs, whichwould grossly invade the privacy of the family. The otherpoint on the public -QUESTION: Well, let - let's take a particularitem of evidence, I mean, like the - the autopsy reportthat Mr. Favish claims was - was - was altered, that theword neck was white - whitened out and head was written ininstead to - to cover the fact that the bullet exited theneck rather than the head. Now, you know, what - what he and other conspiracy theorists would say is, the fact thatfive investigations came up with the same conclusion justshows the extent of this - this conspiracy, you know. They're not going to be satisfied by the mere fact that -that you had five separate groups. They're going to say,oh, all the worse, all the worse, this - this conspiracyis so widespread. Well, how do you respond to that?MR. HAMILTON: Well, I think the first response Iwould make is that it is a difficult argument to make thatJudge Starr conspired with members of the Clintonadministration to protect that administration. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. (Laughter.)MR. HAMILTON: Judge Starr - Judge Starr's reportwas quite thorough, it was over pages. He answeredthis question about the - the - the medical report. Themedical report was somewhat inconsistent, but certainly,when you look at the autopsy reports, when you look at the- the - the photographs themselves, it is clear that the -there - there was a - an exit wound in the back of thehead. There was no -QUESTION: He might have been protecting NewtGingrich. Did you ever think of that?MR. HAMILTON: I - I beg your pardon?QUESTION: Mr. Starr might have been protectingNewt Gingrich. We really - we really don't know. (Laughter.)QUESTION: May - may I ask -MR. HAMILTON: Justice -QUESTION: - the - I wanted to ask this questionof the Government, didn't have the opportunity. TheGovernment says there were three errors made by the NinthCircuit. I assume the district court, under theGovernment's test, does have substantial discretion evenif we - if we adopt the test the Government wants us toadopt. And my question is whether or not, rather thansimply reverse and remand - and reverse, we have to remand th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. for the district court to do this under the proper test?MR. HAMILTON: Well, I would hope - I would hope,given the full record here, that this Court would notremand, that this Court would decide this issue. It hasbeen, Justice Kennedy, years since -QUESTION: I - I understand, but as a - as alegal matter, if the Ninth Circuit didn't apply the propertest and if the district judge has to exercise discretionin the first entrance - instance - whether or not we haveto remand even if we adopt the Government's argument?MR. HAMILTON: I - I believe that on the recordbefore the Court, the Court can decide that there is novalid public interest here, and that the interest of - theprivacy interest of the Foster family greatly outweighs -QUESTION: So you want us to do that weighing?MR. HAMILTON: I - I certainly do. I want thiscase to end at this Court, Justice Kennedy. It has been years and it is time to give this family some peace.QUESTION: That was the initial position of thedistrict court, wasn't it? In the - in the first round,didn't the district court uphold the exemption?MR. HAMILTON: The - yes, Justice Ginsburg.QUESTION: So the district judge - what - I don'trecall what standard the district court applied in thefirst instance, but it was the Ninth Circuit that - that th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. said, district court, you have to look at these anddisclose the ones that aren't, whatever that series ofadjectives is.QUESTION: Yes. That - that's my concern. Isthere evidence that the district court used the standardthat the Government now argues for in the first - when he- when the - Judge Keller first looked at this case, didhe adopt basically what the Government is asking us toadopt?MR. HAMILTON: Not - not exactly. No, he did notadopt a - a clear evidence test, but the district court inthe first instance, in his first decision, did weigh thepublic interest against the privacy interest and foundthat as to all of the photographs, the privacy interest prevailed.I would like to - I would like to return to the- the family's privacy interest and make one more point,which is that law and tradition treat the momentsurrounding death as special, private family matters. Afamily generally has the right to decide how to conductits leave-taking and how to dispose of the body of a lovedone with dignity. At a funeral, a family may choosewhether a coffin is open or is shut, and they have thatchoice even if the deceased person was a public official. Here, the Foster family decided that the coffin be shut, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. and to effectively open it now by disclosing thephotographs would be an unconscionable invasion of thefamily's privacy interest.In the Reporters Committee brief, the contentionwas made that the invasion of sorts here would be minimaland would impose no meaningful additional harm. Thatassertion is just simply wrong, and those claims ignorethe potent and the moving declarations submitted in thiscase by Ms. Anthony and Ms. Moody. These declarationsexpress what any family in the circumstance would feel,and they show why law and tradition treat death as aprivate, family matter.Mr. Foster's sister, Ms. Anthony, in herdeclaration, recounted her nightmares and heart-pounding insomnia each time she has seen the leaked photograph of -QUESTION: Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Hamilton.Mr. Favish, am I pronouncing your namecorrectly?ORAL ARGUMENT OF ALLAN J. FAVISHON BEHALF OF RESPONDENT FAVISHMR. FAVISH: Yes, Chief Justice, thank you.Mr. Chief Justice, and may it please the Court:I can think of no clearer definition of thephrase, personal privacy, as Congress used it in exemption(C) than what this Court said about that phrase in the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. Reporters Committee case when it cited the work of formerSolicitor General Charles Fried and other noted scholarson what the definition of privacy is: the right to controlinformation about yourself. That's what I base this caseon. I want you to stick with what you said on that pointin .QUESTION: The issue wasn't before the Court. There were no family members. It was an individual, so itwas natural for the Court to address it.MR. FAVISH: Justice Ginsburg, the definition ofprivacy as intended by Congress in exemption (C) wasbefore the Court in Reporters Committee, and this Court -QUESTION: But the - the Court didn't have a casethat involved, say, for example, what was presented in the Challenger case. It didn't come here, but it did go tothe district court and the D.C. Circuit.MR. FAVISH: I agree -QUESTION: Are - are you saying that ReportersCommittee showed that that decision was wrong?MR. FAVISH: No. I - I agree with you thatReporters Committee did not involve death-relateddocuments, if that's what you're saying. I agree on thatpoint. But Reporters Committee gave only one definitionof privacy as intended by Congress, and that definitionshould apply to all circumstances in which FOIA requests th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. may come up.QUESTION: There's a tradition going backthousands of years in human life. You can go back toAntigone, Euripides, every major religion, respect for thedead, respect for survivors, and that runs through everyreligion, through Greek myth, tragedy, and why isn't thatimportant enough to human life to believe that Congressalso intended to encompass that?MR. FAVISH: I believe it is an importantinterest, but Congress left no indication that it intendedfor that interest to be protected by the privacy languagein exemption (C).QUESTION: Well, if the history is totallysilent, why wouldn't we assume that Congress intended to recognize something so deep in human nature?MR. FAVISH: Well, the - the legislative historyisn't totally silent.QUESTION: No, I mean if they said, no, no, we donot intend to respect this sacred tradition, fine. But Ibet they didn't say that, and for good reason.MR. FAVISH: They did not say that, but they didtalk about personally identifying details and governmentagencies where person -QUESTION: Are you reading from the legislativehistory? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. MR. FAVISH: From the legislative history, whichis at page -QUESTION: Why don't you use the text of thestatute?MR. FAVISH: Yes.QUESTION: I would - I would think that yourresponse to - to Justice Breyer would be that the - thatthe word privacy is not a - the normal way of - ofexpressing those concerns for respect for the dead.MR. FAVISH: I agree, I agree, and that's why Icited what this Court did in Reporters Committee, andthose concerns are valid and those concerns should be madeto Congress in an attempt to get them to add anotherexemption to the FOIA, if that's what the Government and the Foster respondents want. We know that -QUESTION: You've heard - you've heard Mr.Hamilton mention aspects of how the revelation ofdocuments, pictures of the dead, can injure a survivor. Why isn't the word privacy broad enough at least to coverthat?MR. FAVISH: That's not the way this Courtdefined it in Reporters Committee. That's not the wayI've seen it defined anywhere else except a fewaberrational cases, which by the way -QUESTION: Well, one - one of the - one of the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. definitions that I think we instinctively assume is thevery simple one that Justice Brandeis used, the right tobe let alone. That is at the - at the heart of a lot ofprivacy thinking in our law, and the right to be letalone, I suppose, would encompass at least two thingsrelevant in this case. One is the right not to beassaulted by these photographs, which will be veryupsetting. That is - that's certainly not being leftalone when - when you have to go through that.And the second consequence, I would suppose, ofpublication is simply even in the narrowest definition ofprivacy, even apart from the Brandesian sense. If thesethings are going to be published, the family is going tobe subject to intrusive inquiries again. People are going to ask them for comments on it. They're going to go totheir house again and take a picture of the front of thehouse. Why aren't these interests, which at this time inour history I think do tend to fall with - within theconcept of privacy, easily encompassed by the - the senseof privacy in the exemption?MR. FAVISH: The right to be let alone was notthe sole expression of the definition of privacy in thatarticle. In fact, in Reporters Committee -QUESTION: Well, nothing it - I - I'm notsuggesting - your - I mean, your argument is based upon th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. the fact that there has to be one narrow definition ofprivacy encompassed by this word, and no other. You'vegone back to a case in which we were talking about theinterests of the living, and you say it can't be anythingmore than that. Why do you make the assumption thatprivacy is such a circumscribed concept in the exemption?MR. FAVISH: Well, the word privacy, if it'sgoing to be meaning the right to be let alone in itsbroadest sense, I suppose anything that could beconsidered a tort then would be considered a violation ofsomebody's privacy right.QUESTION: Mr. Favish, do - do we have any caselaw that suggests that the exemptions to the Freedom ofInformation Act are to be narrowly construed? MR. FAVISH: Well, sure, this Court's decision inRose, Department of Air Force, there are many cases -QUESTION: Isn't that your - isn't that yourresponse to why you should not think that privacy meansthe right to be let alone?MR. FAVISH: Exactly.QUESTION: Or anything beyond its narrowestmeaning?MR. FAVISH: I - I -QUESTION: I assume that that's your argument?MR. FAVISH: Yes, absolutely. That's established th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. that these are to be narrowly construed, and that was apart of the legislative intent of Congress to have theexemptions clearly delineated, specific, so that therewould be clear standards. In fact, that was the - thereason for the Freedom of Information Act being enacted in, because the prior enactment was allowing theGovernment to take ambiguous language and cover everydocument with it.So if you are going to come up with anotherdefinition of privacy, it has to fit within thatlegislative intent.QUESTION: Are you saying that this Court,because of the definition in Reporters Committee, hasalready recognized that it's got to be the individual that is in the photograph and families are out of it? That it- that - that's - so you would - you would say the D.C.Circuit was wrong, the district court in the Challengercase, which involved the voices of the people?MR. FAVISH: Okay. Two - two parts to yourquestion. First, as to your first part, based on whatthis Court did in Reporters Committee, I'd say privacy inthis context is the right to control information aboutyourself. If the survivors have no information in thatphotograph or document, they have no privacy interesthere. With regard to the Challenger case, the D.C. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. Circuit in Challenger did not reach this issue. The soleissue they decided was whether or not the threshold hadbeen met in this exemption (C) case, which was whether thefile was a personnel, medical, or similar file.QUESTION: Yeah, but it went back to the districtcourt.MR. FAVISH: The district court made the decisionthat there was a privacy interest, but it wasn't the D.C.Circuit that made that decision, and the D.C. -QUESTION: But in - in any event, you would saythat district court decision was off-limits because thiswas a case of survivor grief, no information about thesurvivors?MR. FAVISH: Yes, I would. And I'd like to point to two cases, one of which has already been cited to youin the brief by the Silha Center, one of the amicus, andthat's Cordell v. Detective Publications. It's a SixthCircuit opinion from . And also, a case that hasn'tbeen cited to you yet is a Federal district court casecalled Young v. That Was The Week That Was, and that's at F. Supp. . The beauty of these two Federal cases,they're both from , which is just three years afterCongress first enacted FOIA, just a few years before theyput the privacy phrase in exemption (C). They talk aboutthe common law definition of privacy and - th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. QUESTION: Well, if - if they were decided in, why are they not in your brief?MR. FAVISH: Well, I didn't - I filled up my pages and I didn't address this specific issue, other thanciting Reporters Committee.QUESTION: Well, on - on - on ReportersCommittee, maybe you'll disagree, but what I think is - is- is the key language is in roman IV, where the Courtsays, to begin with, both the common law and the literalunderstandings of privacy encompass the individual'scontrol of information concerning his or her person. Itdoesn't say consists of or is defined, it says encompass. The Court couldn't have been more careful to use a word tosay that this is - that it includes. It doesn't say it's exclusively confined to.MR. FAVISH: I - I -QUESTION: I - I just think that's a very unfairreading of that sentence. Now, if you have somethingelse.MR. FAVISH: No, well, then I look at - well,first of all, I generally agree with what you just said.QUESTION: I - you - you agree that that is -that's the key sentence that we're talking about.MR. FAVISH: Yes, and - but I don't - I disagreethat it's unfair, because then I look at what was cited by th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. the Court, and all these scholarly articles talk about theright to control information about yourself. And I seenothing else in the word privacy from the common law,other than a minority of aberrational cases, and certainlynothing in the legislative history that would come up withthis relational tort, this survivor privacy -QUESTION: Well, but that's what we were involvedwith. It - it's not our style to say, now we have beforeus the question of whether there is this - privacyincludes control of the individual's information abouthimself. Now, of course, there are many otherdefinitions, but we - we don't write opinions that way.MR. FAVISH: Right. I agree, but if you look atthe scholarly articles that you cited, none of them endorse this survivor privacy theory. They talk aboutprivacy as the right to control information about yourselfexclusively.QUESTION: Well, Mr. Favish, now, the court belowdidn't really rest on that ground, did it? I mean, you -you didn't - the court below didn't think that privacywas limited to this - to the deceased?MR. FAVISH: Neither the district court nor theNinth Circuit -QUESTION: No.MR. FAVISH: - accepted that. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. QUESTION: And so I assume you may want toaddress the other arguments in the case.MR. FAVISH: Certainly. If you do -QUESTION: Do you defend the approach takenotherwise by the courts below?MR. FAVISH: No, I don't. And if you do get to asecond step where you are going to be balancing whateverprivacy interest you might find here against the public'sinterest, then you have an overwhelming - an overwhelmingcase that's been established showing that there wasgovernment misconduct here, at least negligence. And Italk about the government conduct on two separate levels. One, there was government conduct in investigating Mr.Foster's death, finding out what happened to him. Second,there was government conduct in reporting about that deathand the investigation to the public. The primaryreporting agencies here were the Fiske and Starr OICs. Now, with regard to the first area of governmentconduct, the investigation as to finding out whathappened, it's just educated guesses that the public canmake about whether there was any negligence here. Butwith regard to the second area of whether or not thereporting conduct by the Government was at leastnegligent, we know to a percent certainty that therewas at least negligence, because we know that - let me th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. talk about what Justice Scalia talked about, the autopsyreport.To be more correct, Your Honor, it was a - areport by the only doctor to view Mr. Foster's body at thepark. It was not the autopsy report. It was a two-pagedocument. Page talked about the death-shot being mouthto neck. Mr. Hamilton stated that Mr. Starr dealt withthat in his report. That's not true. Mr. Starr ignoredpage of the Haut report. That's one of the problemshere. We talk about these different investigations. Well, nobody investigated that language on the Hautreport. Nobody investigated the FBI -QUESTION: Explain how the - the four documentsthat we're concerned with don't talk about - none of themshow head and neck, so I don't - we - we hear only aboutthose four documents, right? Because the district courtand the Ninth Circuit said, right, not all ten but onlythose four? And none of those four have anything to dowith head and neck.MR. FAVISH: I - I - I'm - I'm not sure I followyour question. I - I understand that all photos are atplay here because -QUESTION: Well, that - that's what I'd likeclarified, because I thought that we are reviewing adecision that the Government has asked us to review, which th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. said, Government, disclose four photographs.MR. FAVISH: My understanding is that thepetition that was granted by the Government had, as itsquestion presented, was the Office of Independent Counselcorrect in withholding all of these photographs? Andunder the -QUESTION: But the court below said yes withrespect to six of them. So how do we get to review that?MR. FAVISH: Yeah, the -QUESTION: Didn't you cross-petition on the six? I thought you cross-petitioned.MR. FAVISH: Yes, I did, and that's being heldover.QUESTION: That's the answer.QUESTION: Right.MR. FAVISH: So I believe all photos are atplay here in what decision you come up with, because the -all the issues presented by all three petitioners aresubsumed under the question presented in the petition thatyou granted.QUESTION: I'm worried about - suppose you won. Itake it the police investigate hundreds of thousands ormillions or crimes every year, and in those investigationsthey may investigate people whom they later conclude areinnocent, perhaps again hundreds of thousands of millions th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. of them. And, of course, there might, in respect to thosepeople, be lots of newspapers or others who would like tohave the police records about people found to be innocent.Now, what would protect these thousands orhundreds of thousands of innocent people from having thepolice investigation of them displayed on the front pageof their local paper if you were to win this case?MR. FAVISH: Well, if I was one of those peoplethat you're talking about and -QUESTION: Yes, well -MR. FAVISH: - and there's information about mein the document, I have a privacy interest in thedocument, is what my position is.QUESTION: Well, if you - but suppose you won this, if you won it, then you and everybody else, let'ssay millions of people, you don't mind perhaps, or notenough, you don't mind enough, but a lot of people wouldmind having a police report about them on the front pageof the local paper.MR. FAVISH: Well, then, in that case -QUESTION: Now, what is it that - if you win, Idon't see that those people would have any protectionwhatsoever.MR. FAVISH: The protection would be in thebalancing that's done to see - th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. QUESTION: The balancing would be that the policehad found them innocent, and it's not that hard if you winthis, where there have been five investigations, forsomebody to say, oh, there was a police cover-up, theyweren't really innocent.MR. FAVISH: I -QUESTION: And if there are two investigations,they'll still say it, and there'll always be somethingthat isn't perfect about the investigation, so they'llhave a peg to hang their hat on.MR. FAVISH: Under the balancing, all the factorsmust be taken into account. We have an almost uniquesituation here of a deputy White House counsel, publicofficial, very close to the President of the United States, who was under investigation at the time, therewere documents related to that investigation in Mr.Foster's office, that is why Kenneth Starr and RobertFiske investigated this. We're talking about the highestlevels of government where there's a mysterious death bygunshot. This is not one of the cases that you pose ahypothetical about. This is something unique and -QUESTION: But I don't see how you can confine itto uniqueness. Why doesn't everyone in every hometown inAmerica have a - a very significant interest in whethertheir police department is adequately investigating and th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. evaluating reports of homicide. Of course they have an -an interest in that.MR. FAVISH: I -QUESTION: Every - everyone in - in - in anyFederal district has an interest in whether the UnitedStates Attorney and the FBI and so on are investigatingserious crimes, and I - I don't see how you can confinethis to what you call the unique case.MR. FAVISH: I - I'm not saying it would beconfined. I'm saying that this is what sets those other -this case apart from the others. But in principle,unless it falls within one of the exemptions, then thatinformation would have to be made public -QUESTION: So -MR. FAVISH: - under the FOIA as it currentlyexists.QUESTION: But here's the - I think one of the -the - one of the things that's bothering Justice Breyer,and it's bothering me, if we accept as broad a principleas you argue for, is this: that one of the things that -that most police investigators learn very early on is thatwhen they investigate a crime and they investigate asuspect, the suspect's old friends and enemies comeforward, and the latter frequently even up some oldscores. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. The amount of misinformation that isintentionally communicated to law enforcement officers isenormous. They have to evaluate that, and it seems to methat that kind of misinformation is - is - is going tocome very close to the front page in most cases if - if aprinciple as broad as yours is accepted.MR. FAVISH: Well, first of all, I believe in theFOIA, in exemption , there is an exemption for ongoinginvestigations, so much of what you're talking about -QUESTION: Well, yeah, but the - the problem forthe person being investigated who is ultimately exoneratedis going to be the same the day after the investigation is- is over. So that - that doesn't answer the problem.MR. FAVISH: Yeah. Now, I'm just talking about the privacy exemption in (C). Now, I don't know in yourhypothetical whether there would be other exemptions toprevent disclosure in those situations. I'm notcommenting on that. Now, with regard - yes.QUESTION: Neither - neither do I, in fact.QUESTION: Mr. Favish, here's - here's my - Imean, one - once you get past the first - the first issue,whether the privacy exemption at all covers this, if youassume it does cover it, you have relatives here who aregoing to be very much - very much harmed by - by this, asis shown by the mere fact that they've conducted this th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. lengthy litigation. It's lasted how long, and I'm sureit's been expensive.Now, what is the interest on the other side? If- if you - if you had a plausible case that - that theseinvestigations reached the wrong conclusion, I'd say,yeah, that's a pretty significant governmental interest. But I don't see that here. I - you - you - you've justdemonstrated some foot faults in - in each of theinvestigations. Oh, this - this investigation made thismistake, this other investigation made the other mistake. Who cares? I mean, you really think that that is a matterof - of significant moment for - for the country, thatthere was an isolated mistake in - in one and another ofthe investigations? Who cares?MR. FAVISH: Justice Scalia, I would notcharacterize them as foot faults. I think these are majoromissions of significant evidence that pointed away fromthe Government's official conclusion, and what itestablishes is that the government reports are nottrustworthy. I agree that in the end those reports may becorrect and it was suicide in the park.Again, like I said earlier, I can just makeeducated guesses about that. I'm not saying that it wasdefinitely something other than that, but I am saying thatwhen you have a high-level government official involved in th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. this kind of investigation, and then you have so manyinvestigations by the Government, apparently to get itright, that it took so many, you have a public interesthere, unlike almost any other case I could imagine.QUESTION: Well, why should the high level of thevictim make that much difference?MR. FAVISH: As opposed to just an innocuousneighbor down the street, perhaps.QUESTION: Well, say a - a public interest insomething that happens in Albuquerque, New Mexico, maybethe assistant to the mayor is shot. MR. FAVISH: Because we're dealing with somebodywho was working close to the President of the UnitedStates and we're talking about the Freedom of Information Act, whose primary purpose is to allow the people to be acheck on government, not only to -QUESTION: Well, but - but why - why wouldn'tthat be just as true of this incident, hypotheticalincident in Albuquerque as the Vince Foster slaying?MR. FAVISH: Well, it very well might be withregard to city or state government and states have theirown open records acts, and as we heard before, some ofthem prohibit death photos, but they do that bylegislation. We know that the State of Florida did thatin response to amicus Teresa Earnhardt's plea. That's th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. what should be done here if they want the FederalGovernment to follow the lead of the state legislatureshere.It's not for the courts, with all due respect,to rewrite the FOIA exemption, so I - I'm not disagreeingthat that's a valid concern, but the way -QUESTION: Well, you're - you're - you're gettingaway from the hypothetical. The hypothetical, if you - ifyou insist on taking this line, could be refined so thatwe assume New Mexico has exactly the same statute and hasinterpreted exactly the same way. Then you have to answerthe hypothetical.MR. FAVISH: Oh, absolutely then. If - if thebalancing is done and you're talking about a law like FOIA where the primary purpose is to allow the people to ensurethat their government is honest, because that's the heartof our democracy and we're talking about the integrity ofour law enforcement agencies, I can think of no higherpublic interest than what's being asserted here. Andagain, all of this is going to have to be -QUESTION: So - so - so then it doesn't just turnon the fact that it's Vince Foster and that - and theChief Justice's point is - is that this was going to applyto every police department, every - every local governmentin the country that has an act like this? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. MR. FAVISH: Well, in principle, yes. How thebalancing would come out in each individual case woulddepend on the ad hoc balancing, but the principles would -would be the same if the law is the same, I agree. QUESTION: When a person goes to work for theGovernment, on top of everything else, he even loses aprivate right to bury the body. I mean, I'm speakingmetaphorically, but, I mean, there are a lot ofdisadvantages in government, and you're saying one of thethings would be that after death there is no protection,even to see that that body is buried and the photographsdisappear for the - for the -MR. FAVISH: Well -QUESTION: It would just go on forever. MR. FAVISH: Well, we're not talking aboutinterfering with the - the burial process.QUESTION: No, I know. I'm speakingmetaphorically. I have Antigone in my mind.(Laughter.)MR. FAVISH: Again, as I read the FOIA exemption(C), the privacy exemption, Congress has not legislatedthat the Government is allowed to withhold deathphotographs under this privacy exemption. If we thinkthat's a good public policy to enact, we should getCongress to hold hearings on it and we'll find out all the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. yeas and the nays and that's how good legislation comes. And that's what should be done here and -QUESTION: What does privacy cover without that? Are you suggesting that there be a catalog A to Z of - andthe - and the word privacy within the meaning of (c)covers, and that's -MR. FAVISH: Oh, in terms of what Congress mightdo or what this Court might do?QUESTION: No, in terms of - the Court has noleeway unless Congress has such a catalog and this is oneof the enumerated items -MR. FAVISH: Well, we know that Congress used thephrase, personal privacy, in the statute, and now thedebate is over what did they mean by that. Andapparently, people are scribing words, Alice-in-Wonderland-like definitions to words, and if we go downthat route -QUESTION: But it's not very Alice in Wonderland-like to take the Brandeis definition that started thisall.MR. FAVISH: What I like about the Brandeisarticle is -QUESTION: I think it's Alice in Wonderland-like.MR. FAVISH: What I like about the Brandeis th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. article is the section of that article that was cited bythis Court in Reporters Committee. The Brandeis articlewas one of the six scholarly articles. Now, keep in mind,the Brandeis article, , was maybe the earliest tryingto come up with a definition of privacy, so the languageisn't as precise as what, for instance, former SolicitorGeneral Fried came up with in his seminal article,also cited by this Court.So I would say that the best definition thatprovides the clearest workable standard is the right tocontrol information about yourself, and again, on thesecond point here, I - I won't go down the litany ofthings that are in the brief talking about how there wasmisconduct, at least negligence with regard to reporting this case, but once I've established that, which I have, Ithink that the Government can no longer be trusted tofilter the raw evidence to the people in this case, and Idon't see how in a democracy that depends on the integrityof its law enforcement agencies in a case where you've had- well, by the way, there haven't been fiveinvestigations. For instance, the Senate WhitewaterCommittee stated out the outset of its two-day hearingsthey're not looking into whether Mr. Foster committedsuicide or not. That's in the record. Look at ER andthose pages. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. So we're also looking at a situation with regardto the Fiske and Starr offices using FBI agents as part oftheir investigation, where the FBI did the initialinvestigation with the Park Police. That's all in therecord. There's a conflict of interest there when youhave FBI agents participating in an examination of whatthey already did. So to call this five separate investigations ishighly misleading, and I think that the only investigationthat will matter in this case is the one that the peoplecan do directly by seeing the raw evidence for itself,because for whatever reason, and I don't impugn themotives of Judge Starr or anybody else, I have no personalknowledge that he actually wrote the report. He hadlawyers in his office. I don't know what the mechanicswas. I want to make that very, very clear.I just want it to be known that we knowobjectively, and it's undisputed, there were major piecesof evidence omitted from the Fiske and Starr reports thatpoint to something other than the official conclusion, notjust little details, because those things, I agree, can beexplained sometimes. We're talking about major, majorissues, and those are spelled out in the brief in detailfor you.QUESTION: Mr. Favish, are there any other th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. Federal statutes that use the term privacy?MR. FAVISH: There is the Privacy Act enacted in, and there is a definition which talks aboutpersonally identifying details, and I don't have that athand right now, but it's consistent -QUESTION: You don't think that covers relativeswho are deceased?MR. FAVISH: I don't think it enacts a definitionthat gives somebody a privacy interest in a document -QUESTION: I don't either.MR. FAVISH: - which has no information aboutthem, and I think that's indicative also. And my one lastpoint has to do with what the Ninth Circuit did here inaddition to the reasons I've already explained. Theybasically said that it isn't the release of the photosthat will cause the harm, it's what's going to be donelater, media intrusion and so forth, which I thinkviolates what Justice Scalia said in his concurrence inthe Ray case about the derivative uses.Now, Ray was an exemption case, but it focusedon the word that's common to both exemptions, constitute,would the release or production constitute the invasion ofprivacy? What the Ninth Circuit came up with reallyviolates what Justice Scalia said in his concurrence inRay, with which I - I agree wholeheartedly. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. QUESTION: Do you think the Ninth Circuit isbound to agree with Justice Scalia's concurrence?(Laughter.)MR. FAVISH: I - I -QUESTION: You just think they would be welladvised to do so.(Laughter.)MR. FAVISH: I think they would be well advisedto have at least noted what Justice Scalia said andcompare it to what they were doing, and if they had donethat, they would see that what they did was wrong on thatscore. And that's really all I have. I thank you.QUESTION: Thank - thank you, Mr. Favish.Ms. Millett, you have four minutes remaining. REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF PATRICIA A. MILLETTON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERMS. MILLETT: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice. Justice Breyer, you hit the nail on the head when you saidthat if this type of investigation isn't enough, what'sgoing to happen in the routine case? This is the goldstandard for law enforcement investigations, and if inthis case, the fact that someone can think of somethingmore that should have been said, something more shouldhave been done, something more should have been revealed,then in the run-of-the-mill routine law enforcement case, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. there will be little protection left for privacy.And the problem won't be just that thisinformation will end up on the front page of the New YorkTimes, but under the amendments to the FOIA, if - ifthe Government anticipates three or more requests forinformation, we're obliged to post the information on ourWeb sites for photographs taken after - November. You won't need to go to findadeath.com. You can goto DepartmentofDefense.gov to find pictures of - the pictures that are routinely taken during autopsies ofmilitary office - officials killed overseas.Justice Kennedy, you had asked about the remand,whether a remand was necessary. It is not in this case. On pages A through A of the petition appendix, the district court, before being redirected by the court ofappeals, we think erroneously, ruled that the - thepictures should be withheld applying a less demandingstandard than the one that we approached, that it justbalanced the allegations of misconduct against the privacyinterest, and concluded that the privacy interest stilloutweighed, assuming that - that just allegations countfor something on the public interest side. So if this Court agrees with the Government'sposition or requires anything more than allegations ofmisconduct, there'll be no need to remand. It's also not th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. a discretionary decision, it's a de novo review. Thebalancing is undertaken in the first instance, but it'sreviewed de novo by the court of appeals and de novo bythis Court.Justice Scalia, you talked about this doesn'tsound like privacy. Well, privacy is a language that hasbeen used by not all, but a number of common law courtsthat are cited in our opening and reply brief. And thisCourt's interpretation of the concept of privacy under theFreedom of Information Act has gone far beyond what tortlaw would protect. There - I don't know that there's anycourt case that would suggest that rap sheets should bepublic records, like rap sheets would be protected underprivacy conceptions in common law, so it would be extraordinary in this case to decide that the languageCongress employed, personal privacy, is intended to beinterpreted more narrowly than it has, at least at some -at some courts at common law.Justice Scalia, you also asked about narrowlyconstruing the exemptions. It's - I agree that there arecases that say that, but in John Doe Agency v. a John DoeCorporation, this Court made clear that these exemptionsstill have to be interpreted in a way that allows theirexempt - the purposes of the exemptions to be served. Andin a - and they should not be construed in the non- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. functional manner. If law enforcement is to become theinstrument - in the eyes of the public, the lawenforcement, the Federal Government, will be theinstrument of these types of disclosures and causing thistype of pain to families that is likely to have a chillingeffect on people's willingness to provide information tolaw enforcement.You asked about other statutes, and we discussedthe Privacy Act statute. The Privacy Act statute doesn'tapply to survivors, but that's because the language isspecifically different. The Privacy Act talks about -defines the - the records that are covered in terms ofinformation about an individual and information that - tothat pertains to the individual. It has a sort of very -and it has to be information contained in a system ofrecords that - where information can be retrieved by anindividual identifier. It's a very narrow and specializeddefinition. It's exactly the type of definition thatCongress would have used if it wanted a more narrowapproach. Thank you.CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: Thank you, Ms. Millett. The case is submitted.(Whereupon, at : a.m., the case in theabove-entitled matter was submitted.) th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. 