 IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XNIKE, INC., ET AL., Petitioners ::v. MARC KASKY. : No. -:- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XWashington, D.C.Wednesday, April , The above-entitled matter came on for oralargument before the Supreme Court of the United States at: a.m.APPEARANCES:LAURENCE H. TRIBE, ESQ., Cambridge, Massachusetts; onbehalf of the Petitioners.THEODORE B. OLSON, ESQ., Solicitor General, Department ofJustice, Washington, D.C.; on behalf of the UnitedStates, as amicus curiae, supporting the Petitioners.PAUL R. HOEBER, ESQ., San Francisco, California; on behalfof the Respondent. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC C O N T E N T SORAL ARGUMENT OF LAURENCE H. TRIBE, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioners ORAL ARGUMENT OFTHEODORE B. OLSON, ESQ.PAGEOn behalf of the United States, as amicus curiae,supporting the Petitioners ORAL ARGUMENT OFPAUL R. HOEBER, ESQ.On behalf of the Respondent REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OFLAURENCE H. TRIBE, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioners th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC P R O C E E D I N G S(: a.m.)CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: We'll hear argumentnow in Number -, Nike, Inc. versus Marc Kasky.Mr. Tribe.ORAL ARGUMENT OF LAURENCE H. TRIBEON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERSMR. TRIBE: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it pleasethe Court:In the mid-s there was, of course, anintense debate on the pros and cons of globalization, andof the impact of companies like Nike on workers in theThird World, where Nike contracted out much of itsproduction to some factories in countries with over, employees.Now, the critics, many from pro-labor groups,denounced Nike as the chief exemplar of the evils ofglobalization, arguing that Nike was simply shiftingproduction to places where it could exploit the workforceand act in ways that were illegal and immoral, and thecritics took much of their documentation from the media.Of course, Nike disagreed, using the same mediavenues as the critics had used to document what it thoughtwere the connections between its presence and activitiesin countries like South Korea and Vietnam and the th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC development of technological expertise in those countries,as well as the expansion of job opportunities there, andalso arguing that it had put in place significantsafeguards against abuse.Products were mentioned only in response topeople who said, well, look, this product is made insuch-and-such country and it's exploitative, and Nikewould have a press release, or it -- sometimes it would bean op ed saying no, you've got the wrong country, thisproduct is made in such-and-such other place. These wereletters to the editor, pamphlets. It was on the Internet,correspondence.As you might expect, the critics talked back. There was a lively political dialogue about the realitiesof the Third World and Nike's role in it, a little hard to separate the two, when, as the dissenter below, one of thedissenters below said Nike had become the poster child forthe evils, supposedly, of globalization, so notsurprisingly the debate was inconclusive.The surprise came when the story took an unusualturn, unusual at least in our system of Government. Oneof the Nike critics, Marc Kasky, asked the Californiacourts to endorse his view and to hold that the statementsthat Nike was putting out were false or were misleading. He invoked California's unfair competition law and the th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC false advertising law that it included, which gives anyonestanding, so Mr. Kasky certainly qualified, to sue anotherperson or corporation, here Nike and its officers, formaking any statement in a newspaper or other publicationsuch, it goes on to say, or any advertising device,including over the Internet, concerning any circumstanceor matter of fact connected with anything the speakerintends to sell if the statement is untrue or misleading,and the California Supreme Court has read that to coveranything that might mislead the public.The plaintiff, empowered to sue by the Businessand Professions Code on behalf of, quote, thegeneral public, unquote, did not, under Californiadecisional law, have to allege or prove falsity -- itcould be an omission that made something misleading -- he didn't have to allege or prove reliance by or injury toanyone, or any particular level of fault. An inadvertentomission will suffice under the Day decision.QUESTION: Well, certainly some omissions, eventhough not technically false, could be false in their --in what they convey.MR. TRIBE: Certainly, Mr. Chief Justice, and,in fact, one of the suggestions made by the CaliforniaSupreme Court for how a company could engage in thisdebate without any problem is simply omit all the facts th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC that might connect it to the situation, and that kind ofomission, it would be certainly alleged, would bemisleading, so the only solution that Nike is given is,talk in vague generalities.I don't deny, Mr. Chief Justice, that there canbe cases and there can even be fraud cases, though it'shard, given the pleading requirements of the fraud tort,that do rest on omissions, but I'm just suggesting how --how capacious -- how capacious this is.The relief that is available and was requestedby Mr. Kasky includes, and I don't think we should forgetthe importance of this, an adjudication that the defendantis guilty of an unlawful business practice, and in Nike'scase that would be no small matter. I mean, it would besaid you're guilty of exploiting women and children in the Third World, guilty as charged, and not being honest aboutit, a scarlet letter more damning than the label ofNational Labor Relations Act violator that this Court ayear ago in B&K versus NLRB treated as so grave a blot onthe reputation of a company that it mustn't be imposed foractivity within the First Amendment zone without givingthe defendant significant leeway.Secondly, there is available a court-orderedinjunction both prohibitory and mandatory in one caseinvolving the Alta-Dena Dairy in California under this th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC statute. The Consumers Union of the United States broughtthe suit as a Private Attorney General against a dairythat had been putting out its products of raw milk sayingthey were just as nutritious and healthy as pasteurizedmilk, and the remedy was a -year mandate of correctivespeech, as it were, corrective education.QUESTION: To -- to make them realize that rawmilk was not as good as pasteurized milk?MR. TRIBE: Well, I guess to make some people --this -- that's what the statute says, that some peoplemight have been misled. Needless to say, the kind of showtrial that would be involved in this case is a lot moreexpensive than that one.That case, by the way, took days to try, witnesses, there were , pages of exhibits, at the end a restitutionary order of $, was given, and inthat case the Attorney General joined the suit, hecollected the restitution --QUESTION: Do -- do we have a case in which wesay that a -- a civil scheme -- I -- I suppose there aresome criminal remedies here, but let's just think aboutthis as a civil scheme, that a civil scheme of this typeis so burdensome, so extensive that it chills speech andis therefore invalid? I -- I --MR. TRIBE: Well, I suppose Bantam Books -- th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC QUESTION: We -- we have plenty of cases thatthe criminal laws are either vague or overly broad andthat they chill speech. What about in the civil context?MR. TRIBE: I think Bantam Books comes to mind.QUESTION: Yes.MR. TRIBE: And there it was less than this, itwas simply you were on a list of books. It seems to methat the Court in the National Labor Relations Act contextitself took the position in B&K that chilling effect wasimportant, and what about defamation?I mean, the central meaning of New York Times v.Sullivan and Gertz and, you know, and Time v. Hill is thateven when you have someone who is harmed, reputationalharm, concrete harm, so that the regulation of speech issimply ancillary to vindicating tangible interest, even there the chilling effect is so great that even thoughthere's no positive value in false statements you have toput a burden -- it's a matter of public interest.QUESTION: You would have to say that thiscomplaint and the adjudicatory system it wished to invokechills speech, therefore the complaint must be dismissed. I mean, is that the remedy you're --MR. TRIBE: Well, essentially that's right,that --QUESTION: Well, Mr. Tribe, this -- th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC MR. TRIBE: -- this trial itself isillegitimate.QUESTION: -- this -- but this Court has saidthat even though commercial speech concerns a publicissue, it's still commercial speech --MR. TRIBE: Yes.QUESTION: -- and we've applied a different testto commercial speech.MR. TRIBE: Yes, Justice O'Connor.QUESTION: We said that in Central Hudson, wesaid that in Bolger.MR. TRIBE: Yes.QUESTION: How do you distinguish those?MR. TRIBE: Well, let me say two things, JusticeO'Connor. First of all the Court has never said that the Constitution and its First Amendment are wholly invisibleto commercial speech, that is, if you're going aftercommercial harms, then there's a lower standard forcommercial speech, the four-part Central Hudson test. Discovery Network made clear that if you're coming at itfrom a different angle, commercial speech is just as goodas anything else.R.A.V., I think, dispelled the notion that theConstitution has these blind spots and, indeed, the wholeapproach of the Court below and of Mr. Kasky was, we don't th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC even have to deal with your First Amendment arguments --QUESTION: Well, do you -- you take the viewthat --MR. TRIBE: -- because it's misleadingcommercial speech.QUESTION: -- none of the things alleged in thecomplaint meet the commercial speech test set out inCentral Hudson?MR. TRIBE: Actually, we --QUESTION: Not one of them?MR. TRIBE: That's right, Justice O'Connor, wedon't think any of them do, but even if they did, thisscheme --QUESTION: What part do they take?MR. TRIBE: Well, actually, they don't come close in general, and I think the best way to illustratethat is to look not at the various verbal formulas thathave been used by this Court in terms of whether it'sadvertising format, whether it's -- in one case I thinkJustice Stevens talked about something beingtransaction-driven, but look at the example that thiscourt gave in Central Hudson when it was addressing thequestion, when we allow greater regulation of speech thatis closely connected with the Government's power toregulate commercial transactions we're not in any way th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC limiting your ability directly to comment.The example that was given was the pamphlet fromthe Con Ed case. That was an example of direct comment,and you look at the pamphlet which was in the jointappendix in -- in that case, and it turns out the pamphletis a detailed set of statements about why nuclear power issafer, better, cheaper, better for our independence, andyou know what, Con Ed had a nuclear power plant, IndianPoint, they clearly had an economic interest in promotingthat view, and that's the closest any of these statementsby Nike come --QUESTION: No, no, but there's another -- thinkin your mind of two documents. Document is the letterthat Nike sent to the -- the athletic managers.MR. TRIBE: Yes.QUESTION: And then put that side by side withthe document in the Bolger case, and --MR. TRIBE: Yes.QUESTION: -- that's the -- the discussion ofvenereal disease.MR. TRIBE: Right.QUESTION: Now, what -- now, I -- you have towrite an opinion, let's say --MR. TRIBE: Yes.QUESTION: -- that says the difference between th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC these is?MR. TRIBE: Is that the letter to the universitypresidents and to the athletic departments of theseuniversities, which is Exhibit R at page of thelodging, is an extended argument about why the claimsagainst Nike are unfounded. It is not in any of its -- itdoesn't have Air Jordans on it --QUESTION: And then the letter about the --MR. TRIBE: -- the way Trojan condoms were --condoms were at the end of that --QUESTION: Yes.MR. TRIBE: -- submission, and in the Bolgercase again, I think if I were writing such an opinion Iwould say, in Bolger we again reiterated the formula thathad been used in Central Hudson and gave as an example of something that was not commercial speech the promotionalpamphlet. That -- that was sent to some -- you know whoit was sent to? It was sent only to the customers ofCon Ed. It was an insert in the bills, so there's nodoubt that that was speech that had as its audience onlythose people who purchased from Con Ed, whereas in thiscase, these guys are not direct purchasers, and moreover,and I think decisively, that's the closest that anythingin this case comes to commercial speech.QUESTION: And as long as we're writing th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC distinctions --MR. TRIBE: Yes. I think --QUESTION: -- how do I write this distinction?MR. TRIBE: Well --QUESTION: The FTC -- sorry, if you're notfinished.MR. TRIBE: I'm sorry. I was only going to addthat Mr. Kasky, even though he has standing to do a greatdeal --QUESTION: Yes.MR. TRIBE: -- does not have standing to sue onbehalf of the athletic directors, it turns out, becausethe California courts in the Rosenbluth case in saidthat this is a law where you're supposed to represent thepublic, not sophisticated organizations, because they might have their own interests, so to the closest thiscase comes --QUESTION: Is it supposed to be like theAttorney General, Mr. Tribe --QUESTION: But Mr. Tribe, as I understand it --MR. TRIBE: I'm sorry.QUESTION: This sets up a Private AttorneyGeneral so this -- Mr. Kasky is representing the public,but you've been talking about the great breadth of thisstatute, and I understand all that, but where -- at just th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC the threshold, the cases were thrown out in the lowercourts because they said there's no circumstances, there'snothing you can narrow this complaint down to, not onepiece of literature.MR. TRIBE: Yes, it's --QUESTION: Nothing, not one, and the -- theproblem with this case is that it comes to us at such apreliminary stage. There's been nothing like a trial,there's been no narrowing of anything, so am I right inthinking that to prevail you would have to show that noneof these, that there's not one that would survive past amotion to dismiss?MR. TRIBE: No, Justice Ginsburg, I think that'snot right, because what the court of appeals said in thiscase -- and its opinion I think merits reading. It's atleast as good as the dissents in the California SupremeCourt.What it said was, not that we can't pick andchoose somewhere in this pile of scattered material, as itdescribed it, something that under a different schememight be permissible. What we hold is impermissible ismaking the courts pawns in a public debate and having whatamounts to -- they didn't use the phrase, show trial, butessentially they were saying a trial in which you, ineffect, put on trial such a large and massive question and th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC hopeless mix of fact and opinion as the impact on theThird World of this large company.Now --QUESTION: What's -- what is your best reasonfor saying this is a show trial? In other words, you wanta new category, and I had thought your best reason was,and -- and I want to know whether you agree with me orwhether there's something better --MR. TRIBE: Yes.QUESTION: I thought your best reason was thatthere is no, no need for any allegation and in fact noallegation that anyone among the plaintiffs or amongthe -- the class on behalf of which they sue, the public,was injured in any demonstrable way. Is that the point?MR. TRIBE: That --QUESTION: Is that what the show trial thing --MR. TRIBE: That's probably the single strongestpoint, and let me connect it with a broader theme, becausein Discovery Network, when this Court talked about thefact that commercial speech is a category that's relevantwhen you're going after commercial harm, in a sense toprotect consumers from fraud of one kind or another, inthe reputation area it is again not speech alone you'regoing after. You're trying to vindicate certain interestsin not being harmed. You have to have someone whose th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC reputation is harmed.QUESTION: Suppose a California regulatoryagency signed its name as the plaintiff to this -- to thiscomplaint.MR. TRIBE: Well, I think simply adding a namewouldn't necessarily solve the problem. The AttorneyGeneral of California put his arm around the Consumer'sUnion in the Alta-Dena case, but in this case you needa --QUESTION: No, no, but -- but we have -- we havesome cases, like the Egg Commission case and so forth --MR. TRIBE: Right.QUESTION: -- where the FTC or the FDA --MR. TRIBE: Right.QUESTION: -- has I, think, a certain standing. It doesn't have to show injury to itself.MR. TRIBE: That's right, but it does have toshow, the statutes are written to require it to show thatthere is an area of legitimate regulatory concern. Consumers might be fooled into believing, by the EggNutrition Council, that cholesterol is good for yourheart, and they're trying to protect them.QUESTION: Well, you know what we're -- you knowwhat we're going to hear next, that the Californians arevery interested in this. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC MR. TRIBE: Well, first of all, if they're veryinterested they can do a number of things. They can passsomething like -- Congress passed the Dolphin ProtectionAct saying, if you really care about dolphins, thenwhenever a can of tuna is sold, it can't use the phrase,dolphin-friendly, unless certain things are met. California did this with ozone at one point and then itrepealed the ozone-friendly law.But giving a company an idea of what it has todisclose and what the issues are going to be is verydifferent from saying, well, here we are, we're sittinghere and waiting until somebody --QUESTION: And again -- and again, your bestcase for this is Bantam Books, or --MR. TRIBE: Well, I -- no, I think the defamation line of cases is even better, because at aminimum they show that you have to have someone who'sharmed, and you have to have deliberate or recklessfalsehood. Imagine a law --QUESTION: Why isn't -- why isn't it -- goingback to Justice Kennedy's question, why shouldn't it besufficient to say that when it is the State rather thanany citizen, self-selected, who brings this suit, we wouldat least depend upon some State --MR. TRIBE: Yes. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC QUESTION: -- political responsibility --MR. TRIBE: Yes.QUESTION: -- and accountability as -- as our --our safeguard, and we would let that go forward because wedon't think there's enough risk of improper chilling?The distinction is, when anybody can walk in --MR. TRIBE: Right.QUESTION: -- there's no accountability. Whyisn't that the line to draw?MR. TRIBE: Well, it seems to me, JusticeSouter, that's a line enough to reverse this decision, butlet me just imagine --QUESTION: Why, when it wasn't raised below? One of the problems is, if you were going to take out thisPrivate Attorney General, you would be saying this statute is unconstitutional, pro tonto. That wasn't argued below. It didn't surface 'til this Court.MR. TRIBE: It was. It was, Justice Ginsburg. On pages to of our reply brief we detailed thesequence, and if you look back at the briefs in theCalifornia Supreme Court the arguments, all of the FirstAmendment arguments were made, but they didn't get tofirst base in that court because it said, hey, misleadingcommercial speech gets no protection.QUESTION: Where was the notice -- th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC MR. TRIBE: I was going to give an example --QUESTION: Where was the notice to theCalifornia Attorney General that the statute was being,the constitutionality of that statute was being attackedwith regard to the Private Attorney General here?MR. TRIBE: It was only as applied, JusticeGinsburg. That is, it does not suggest -- these laws havebeen on the books since the 's, and we're not suggestingthat they have to be scrapped. It's the innovative --QUESTION: I thought that -- that JusticeSouter's question to you was --MR. TRIBE: Yes.QUESTION: -- isn't what infects these laws,that -- that you are allowing a champion --MR. TRIBE: Yes.QUESTION: -- who has no public accountability,and it doesn't -- I don't see how that comes to be anas-applied challenge.MR. TRIBE: Well, Justice Ginsburg, it's anas-applied challenge, because these laws, if applied onlyin cases where harm is alleged and where a court says, tosolve the problem we're going to require that it beproved, that is, it would be the California courts thatwould have to redesign the system to fix it, wouldn't beunconstitutional. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC I wanted to get --QUESTION: I thought that the question that wasput to you is, isn't this statute infirm in every instancewhere you have a Private Attorney General?MR. TRIBE: Who alleges no harm, and --QUESTION: Well, that's what the statute says.MR. TRIBE: Well, I think it has to be -- I -- Ithink it probably is, but I think that the reason thatit's not cured, although I agree very much with theposition the Solicitor General takes that that's thedeepest disease, even if it's taken out, imagine a lawthat said, if you utter a defamatory statement that isknowingly false, we're going to impose a gag order. Evenif the Attorney General administered it, you'd need tohave a possible victim.I mean, if someone says bad things about WilliamShakespeare, and the State of California decides that itis going to have a general, floating power to correctspeech not connected with the regulatory responsibilitiesof any agency like the FTC or the -- or the SEC, but afree-floating power to correct speech, we think that wouldbe constitutionally infirm, but in this case, in anyevent, it doesn't come close to commercial speech.QUESTION: Is your position that, as Iunderstand it, that even if this action were brought by th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC a -- a public agency it would still be impermissible?MR. TRIBE: In -- in this forum, where thepublic agency didn't need to allege, was not administeringa regulatory program to protect people, I -- I think --QUESTION: Would you say the same thing if, thatit would be also impermissible for a public agency toinvestigate to determine whether or not the statementswere true or false?MR. TRIBE: To have an investigation, no. Ithink that the freedom of speech includes the freedom tohave public as well as private debate. That's what thisis about.QUESTION: So that you -- you would agree apublic agency could investigate the charges here todetermine whether they are true or false. Could a -- in a private action, could a private party engage in discoveryto find out whether they were true or false?MR. TRIBE: Well, of course, in this casediscovery is the name of the game, it would become amassive thing.QUESTION: Yes.MR. TRIBE: I think that if we are right thatthis action dies aborning, if it's like the statute inCox v. Cohn itself, where it was simply an impermissiblething, and where no trial would cure the problem, then you th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC don't get to that difficulty, but if it's a legitimatetrial, if the law were redesigned, very broad discoverymight be permissible.I'm a little worried about reserving some time,but I -- I don't want to leave you in mid-air --QUESTION: You -- You'd better reserve now, oryou won't have any to reserve.MR. TRIBE: I will do just that, Mr. ChiefJustice. Thank you.QUESTION: Very well.General Olson.ORAL ARGUMENT OF THEODORE B. OLSONON BEHALF OF THE UNITED STATES, AS AMICUS CURIAE,SUPPORTING THE PETITIONERSGENERAL OLSON: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it please the Court:California has transferred its governmentalauthority to regulate marketplace communications to anyoneand everyone who possesses the price of the filing fee. Unelected, unaccountable private enforcers, uninhibited byestablished notions of concrete harm or public duty, havethe power to advance their own agendas or personalideological battles by launching complex, burdensome, andexpensive litigation. The in terrorem effect andpotential for abuse is difficult to overstate. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC This case can and should, we submit, beevaluated according to the means used to regulate speechin California, not the content of that speech. The Courtand several of the Justices on this Court have explicitlyand repeatedly acknowledged that it is exceedinglydifficult, if not impossible, to draw bright lines thatsegregate marketplace speech according to its content intotwo separate, mutually exclusive hemispheres, commercialand not commercial. These issues arise in an infinitearray of contexts. The speakers are imaginative andcreative, and rigid, permanent, constitutionalcategorization is neither advisable nor necessary.If the commercial-noncommercial dichotomy isemployed in this case, and in others, either alternativehas undesirable consequences. Valuable marketplace speech -- and this Court has repeatedly stressed thatspeech in the marketplace of commerce is valuable. It'svaluable to consumers, but either it becomesnoncommercial, making it difficult for Government toregulate to protect the integrity of the marketplace, orit then is characterized as commercial, which can open theday -- open the way to regimes such as California's, whereanyone with a whim or a grievance and a filing fee canbecome a Government-licensed censor.QUESTION: General Olson, do you think that th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC Congress would be able to authorize a scheme of PrivateAttorney General, for instance, to enforce SECregulations?GENERAL OLSON: Yes, Justice O'Connor, withrespect to concrete harm in connection with specificindividuals. First place, Article III would require that,that there actually be concrete harm, an individualparticipating in a transaction. This Court has held withrespect to (b)() -- Rule (b)(), for example, thatthere must be a buyer or seller of security.QUESTION: What will happen is, they'll find in minutes somebody who bought some Nike shoes who feelsthe same way, you know, so you'll just have this exactsuit with a different plaintiff, possibly, or maybeMr. Kasky once bought some, for all I know, and -- and so that isn't really going to help, is it?GENERAL OLSON: Yes, it is, Justice Breyer. Itwill limit -- first of all it will limit the regulation ofmarketplace speech to the traditional patterns and theregimes that have existed --QUESTION: Okay, so in your view, if Mr. Kaskyhas bought some shoes and is prepared to say, you know, ifI hadn't believed their ad and hadn't been deceived, Inever would have bought them --GENERAL OLSON: Yes. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC QUESTION: -- we can go right ahead with thissuit?GENERAL OLSON: If -- well, if -- there areother problems with the California statute in terms of itsbreadth and its vagueness and things of that nature, butthe principal problem that we're talking about here, whichavoids the problem of saying that everything is eithercommercial or noncommercial, is that traditionally, forhundreds of years, the -- the private individual who hassuffered that injury has been able to bring an action.QUESTION: And I -- I accept that. I'm -- youpointed to evils of both the other positions, but theproblem that I'm having with the third set of evils, whichI think Justice O'Connor expressed --QUESTION: Yes.QUESTION: -- is, imagine an ad -- it's reallyan ad, and it says, our refrigerators are ozone-friendly. The penguins love them, all right.(Laughter.)QUESTION: And now it turns out they have theworst chemical in there anybody's ever heard of. It'sgoing to destroy the ozone layer. They're lying throughtheir teeth, all right.Now, that ad, I take it either the FTC or aprivate person could proceed against. I would think so. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC GENERAL OLSON: Yes.QUESTION: If the answer's yes, then we have theproblem, which I was going to ask Mr. Tribe, and I -- Ineed thinking on this, how do you draw a line? How do youdraw a line between, this commercial is not a commercial,it's a letter sent to the marketing directors -- I thinkthat's their best one -- and my penguin-friendly ozonecommercial? How do we draw that line legally, and you'redoing it a third way, but how do we stop the private AG,Congress having the right to give the private AG the powerto go after my penguins?GENERAL OLSON: Well, in the first place,there -- there is the Article III requirement of actual,concrete harm suffered by an individual. There arehundreds of years of common law tradition with respect to allowing an individual who is the -- who has received insome way a material misrepresentation of fact, which yourquestion presupposes, that -- that causes justifiablereliance in the marketplace and actual harm as a result ofthat conduct.Now, with respect to whether that individual,who can then recover the damage actually suffered, can goon and then seek some sort of institutional injunctive orequitable relief, the courts over the years, over hundredsof years have developed circumstances under which the th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC remedy in the injunctive suit, or in the equitable action,has to be tailored to the actual harm suffered by theindividual.QUESTION: General Olson, you're saying thatschemes other than the one California adopted wouldprobably make much more sense and be more valuable forproducing speech, but what -- what principle is it thatyou rely on to say that California's scheme is bad, justbecause there might be others that would be much morefavorable to the market of speech?GENERAL OLSON: Our principle, Chief JusticeRehnquist, is that the governmental power to regulatespeech in the marketplace, which is constrained by theFirst Amendment, has been transferred to private citizenswithout the normal constraints that -- that --QUESTION: Well, what is your best authority sofar as a case from our Court for that proposition?GENERAL OLSON: Well, one of the --QUESTION: Can you answer the question?GENERAL OLSON: The -- well, I think that I haveto start with the Gertz case, in which the -- the SupremeCourt said in the context of a libel suit there is agovernmental interest in protecting individuals fromactual injury suffered, but the Court went on in Gertz tosay, but that's the limit of the -- th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC QUESTION: But when you can pair one share ofstock, go into court and say, I -- I want a class action,I'm going to pursue this securities suit, it's -- it's --it goes back to the question Justice Breyer asked. I buyone pair of Nike shoes, I come and say, okay, I'm acustomer and I want to sue on behalf of all customerssimilarly situated. It seems to me that your solution, ifit allows room for that, doesn't really get to theproblem.GENERAL OLSON: Well, we believe it does,Justice Ginsburg. Those kind of suits, persons who boughtone share who were misled in the marketplace, or one pairof shoes who had received misleading information, has beenactually suffered, eliminates the idea that governmentalpower is being transferred to people in gross, that the license to be Government, to regulate speech, is justturned loose to everyone. These are traditional notionsof who gets into court and under what circumstances.Act --QUESTION: General Olson, let -- let me just askyou the procedural question, because I found that yourargument was very well laid out, but I did not see thatthat position was taken, and my major concern was that theCalifornia official who should speak to this question isnot before us, wasn't in this case as far as I know, the th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC Attorney General of California.GENERAL OLSON: Let me answer it this way. ThisCourt has said in Yee versus Escondido that if the legalargument is embraced within the question actually properlyraised, the litigants can make that argument. It alsodiscussed that same issue in the Lebron case. This --QUESTION: Aren't you notified if there's a --if there's a question of the constitutionality of astatute passed by Congress so that you will have theopportunity to come in and tell the Court what your viewis?GENERAL OLSON: That is a requirement, and it'saddressed in the appendix in -- in the reply brief and inthe appendix to the reply brief filed on behalf of -- ofNike, but it's also important to recognize that this specific point is raised in the -- in the cert petitionitself. On pages and Nike said, made the point,other features of the California liability scream --scheme aggravate the chilling effect, and then goes on toelaborate on that point by saying, it invests every singleCalifornia resident with the power of a Private AttorneyGeneral, so --QUESTION: But that doesn't show that it wasraised and decided below.GENERAL OLSON: That's -- that's correct, th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC Justice Ginsburg, but -- and -- and Mr. Tribe says that itwas raised to a certain extent below. I can't answer thatquestion. I can say it was embraced within the questionpresented, it was raised in the cert petition, it is a --it is an antecedent question for deciding the FirstAmendment issue in this case, and it is -- it is an issuethat California courts have been dealing with for manyyears.For many, many years the California courts havetalked about and considered whether this any personprovision is proper. Let me -- I -- I've --QUESTION: Thank you, General Olson.GENERAL OLSON: Thank you.QUESTION: Mr. Hoeber, we'll hear from you.ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAUL R. HOEBER ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTMR. HOEBER: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice, mayit please the Court:I'm going to start with the jurisdictionalissues, and the first point, and Mr. Kasky never boughtany Nikes. He never bought any. I suppose now he neverwill. He didn't buy any Nikes, he had no standing underArticle III. As the plaintiff in this case there was nocase or controversy. If it had been brought in Federalcourt it would have been dismissed. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC Now, in these circumstances this Court says --it said in ASARCO the court can still take jurisdiction,but in ASARCO, the State court judgment there establishedliability and left only questions of what the type ofremedy might be.Here, the State court decision by the CaliforniaSupreme Court effectively overruled Nike's demurrer andremanded the case for litigation and trial. That is notclose to ASARCO. Nike would have to admit that thestatements were false to get anywhere near the judgment inASARCO, so the first point on ASARCO is, it doesn't evenapply.The Court would have to extend ASARCO to evenconsider the next question, which would be, if the Courtdid that, whether Nike, which, of course has the burden of proof, has established that because of this decision itwill suffer or has suffered an Article III injury.QUESTION: ASARCO, where it's claimed is, it'sunder the fourth exception listed in ASARCO.MR. HOEBER: No, that's -- excuse me, JusticeBreyer. That's -- that's Cox.QUESTION: Oh, Cox. It's under the fourth Cox,I'm sorry.MR. HOEBER: Which I will get to in just --QUESTION: Sorry. Sorry. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC MR. HOEBER: But Nike has the burden underASARCO to show that it -- if the Court gets to it, that ithas Article III standing, and I'll direct the Court'sattention to the reply brief, page , and the only -- onlyfactor that Nike points to to show that it has Article IIIstanding is, and I quote, the certain injury Nikeconfronts from having to defend its speech in thislitigation, and I will say that I do not believe that theprocess of litigation counts, or qualifies, or issufficient to establish Article III standing. If itwere --QUESTION: You can't think of any civil schemewhich is, on its face, so burdensome that it chillsspeech? You can't think of anything?MR. HOEBER: The -- the scheme -- the scheme would be, Your Honor, perhaps -- no doubt, but the processof litigation. What I'm thinking of is in ASARCO, if theprocess of litigation itself were enough to establishArticle III standing, then the lessees would have hadstanding from the moment they put it in the case --QUESTION: Well, but here the argument is, theprocess of litigation is what causes the substantiveinjury --MR. HOEBER: Well, I think that -- that --QUESTION: -- to a First Amendment right, which th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC is clearly something you have Article III standing toassert.MR. HOEBER: The -- but -- but going through theprocess of litigation, if it were a criminal case, thearrest and the prosecution and the ultimate, possibleconviction, but simply going through the litigation doesnot distinguish --QUESTION: Well, that's the question on themerits. They say it does.MR. HOEBER: The question on the merits beingthe chilling effect of the California scheme --QUESTION: Imagine it was The New York Times --MR. HOEBER: -- not the -- not the litigationits -- not the process of litigation itself.QUESTION: Well, suppose it was, the defendant was the New York Times. Suppose it was a newspaper, Imean, you know, and somebody's trying to stop them fromprinting an article, couldn't they get here under --under similar circumstances?MR. HOEBER: Under ASARCO.QUESTION: Yes, I mean --MR. HOEBER: Under --QUESTION: I don't know if literally it'sASARCO, but what we have is a -- is a plausible claim thatspeech of an important political nature is being stopped. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC Now, that's their claim. Now, I -- I would have thoughtthere's a way to get the case here, and -- and why -- Imean --MR. HOEBER: Well -- well, what I'm saying is,that may -- that may well be true, and it may well be truethat -- that a scheme can -- can stifle speech andestablish harm, but the -- the simple process oflitigation, responding to discovery and going through thelitigation is not what is stifling the speech. It's --QUESTION: Well, that's one of the issues in thecase.MR. HOEBER: Well, all right, then I'll move tomy second jurisdictional point, because I want to makesure it comes out, and this is under Cox, and that is,there is no final judgment because this is a -- in a traditional sense because this is the overruling of ademurrer, but the fourth exception set forth in Coxprovides a way that this Court can hear a case in thiscircumstance, but one of the conditions, necessaryconditions is that were this Court to hear the case andreverse, that would put an end to the -- to the -- to thelitigation, at least to the relevant cause of action.Here, because it's a -- it's a demurrer, and thequestion is the sufficiency of the complaint against thedemurrer, Nike has to show that plaintiff could not amend th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC the complaint in response to, or respondent could notamend the complaint in response to the -- whatever defectmight be --QUESTION: Well --QUESTION: I don't see that --QUESTION: -- that's what the intermediate courtof appeals said in California. I would think that'spretty good authority.MR. HOEBER: What the court of appeals said inCalifornia was that we could not amend the complaint, orthe facts in the -- in the complaint could not be amendedto allege noncommercial speech, noncommercial speech, andthat's true.We don't claim that we would allegenoncommercial speech. For one thing, the statute only covers commercial speech, and it's a red herring in thatsense, where under us -- that we would lose the course ofaction and we couldn't proceed, so yes, the court ofappeal did finish by saying, we don't see any reasonablepossibility that the complaint can be amended to allegenoncommercial speech, so that --QUESTION: Okay, but let's -- let's assume itcould be amended in some way. The demurrer is to thecomplaint as it is, and if we accept their position, thenyou cannot go forward with the complaint as it is. You th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC would have to modify your lawsuit by amendment or bring anew one, and why isn't that sufficient for -- for thefourth Cox exception?MR. HOEBER: Well, it would -- the complaint asit is would not be sufficient, but what Cox says is, forthe -- for the fourth exception, that the court's rulingof reversal must be preclusive of further litigation onthe cause of action, so we gave the example --QUESTION: Well, the cause of action as pleaded. I mean, not a cause of action that you might have pleaded,or a different one that you might bring.MR. HOEBER: Well, it would be the cause -- thecause of action would remain as pleaded. If the court --if the court were to -- to say -- and we gave the exampleof negligence -- the court were to say strict liability is -- is unconstitutional, you must have a -- somethingmore than strict liability, you must have negligence, thecause of action would remain the same as --QUESTION: Well, I think we're --MR. HOEBER: -- as in libel cases --QUESTION: I think we're playing with words. You simply could not go forward on the cause of action asyou stated that cause of action in your pleadings. Youwould have to come forward with a cause of action which isin some respect different in order -- th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC MR. HOEBER: It would be more burdensome.QUESTION: -- in order to meet theconstitutional objection, and if that is the case, whyisn't it sufficient under Cox IV that you could notproceed in the -- in the suit as you have pleaded it andbrought it?MR. HOEBER: Well, we're certainly not going toargue about words, and what -- that is certainly correct,that if -- as pleaded, and -- and we pleaded under thestatute it's a -- it's strict liability, and if the Courtwere to say, you must have negligence, we would amend thecomplaint to allege negligence, so it is certainly correctthat as pleaded we would not be proceeding on anas-pleaded. We would amend the complaint.What I -- what I'm saying is that as I understand the Cox exception, the point of it is that theCourt is saying that we will only take a case underCox IV, when we know that if we reverse, the case is overon that -- on that cause of action, not the technicalityof the pleading so much, but the reality of it, and if wecan amend the complain to allege the additional element,it's really the same -- it is the same cause of action. It's just more burdensome.QUESTION: What you're saying is, is that Coxcategory has real teeth in it, and that you just can't -- th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC you have to show that it's really going to be over.MR. HOEBER: Yes. My -- yes, I --QUESTION: But one aspect of it is that thedemurrer was granted without leave to repeat, as Iunderstand it, was dismissed with prejudice.MR. HOEBER: Yes. In -- in San FranciscoSuperior Court, the trial court, the judge granted thedemurrer without leave to amend. Under California law --and I should say, California law is not the Federal Rulesof Civil Procedure.California law is the field code, the updatedfield code, but it goes back to , in fact to , sounder California law, when the -- when the trial judgegranted the demurrer without leave to amend, we wereentitled to, and we did appeal without seeking leave to amend, and -- and under California law, and I -- I'll saythis in response to the statement on page of the replybrief that he makes no -- excuse me, that his abandonmentof the claimed right to amend, we did not abandon. Respondent did not abandon any claimed right to amend.Under California law, we are entitled to amend. We didn't abandon it. I'm not sure how -- how we couldabandon it. We felt we were right on the law, and weappealed from the -- from the superior court to the courtof appeal. The court of appeal ruled against us and said, th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC as I noted earlier, we don't see a possibility ofamended -- amending it to noncommercial speech, which weagree with.We appealed to the California Supreme Courtbecause we felt we were right on the law, and theCalifornia Supreme Court agreed with us. If -- if theCalifornia Supreme Court had said, you're wrong on thelaw, you've got to prove negligence, maybe the CaliforniaSupreme Court would have done that. We would have thenamended the complaint and proved negligence.QUESTION: You're not going to be able to amendthe complaint in respect to at least one argument, which Ithink is a substantial argument, and that's the argumentthat this particular statement, whether made to thedirectors of the marketing, or whoever made it, is a statement that plays a role in a public debate about whatkind of society we wish to live in, and it's lookingtowards action of a legislative sort, an administrativesort, or possibly an interdependent individual sort, likea boycott, and that being a statement that plays that kindof role in a public debate, it is entitled to the highestprotection regardless of the forum it appeared in, soCalifornia cannot proceed.Now, in respect to that kind of an argument,what's your reply? th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC MR. HOEBER: My -- my reply is, number , if --if this Court were to say the case is barred, of course wecouldn't amend. We could not amend, but -- so -- I'mnot -- I don't mean --QUESTION: I'm really trying to get you to themerits.MR. HOEBER: Yes, I -- I'm going to -- I'm aboutto move to the merits. I'm -- so yes, there arecertain -- certainly circumstances we could not amend.Now, on the merits, and in direct response to --to your question, that's not this complaint. That is notthis complaint. Maybe there's a lot of statements inNike's briefs that suggest that's this case, and that'sthis complaint, but the record before this Court is inthat complaint, and it's nowhere else.QUESTION: No, well, they say -- they're sayingdon't look at -- look at the statement. It's thestatement we're talking about, and look at all theirexamples, and the statement that Nike gave ischaracterized, according to them, as I characterized it,so they say, we don't care what it says in the complaint. The complaint apparently would like us, something bad tohappen to us as a result of having made this statement. That's enough for us. The First Amendment protects usfrom that bad thing. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC MR. HOEBER: Yes, and -- and --QUESTION: And why doesn't it?MR. HOEBER: And it doesn't because thestatements alleged in the complaint are specific, factualrepresentations that say, we make our products incompliance with the laws of -- of the country ofmanufacture with respect to wages and overtime, withrespect to health and safety, with respect toenvironmental standards, we pay our workers twice theminimum wage -- they are specific factual statements ofthat kind. They are not statements that go beyond that,that talk about globalization --QUESTION: How is your client hurt by that?MR. HOEBER: My client is here as -- as aPrivate Attorney General under the California provisions authorizing --QUESTION: So he's -- so he's not hurt by it --MR. HOEBER: So he is not hurt by it. He has,as I said, no Article III standing. He -- he is not hurtby it. He is a Private Attorney General, and on thePrivate Attorney General point, I will -- I will say this,on -- we said in our brief that it was not raised.QUESTION: If he's not hurt by that, how isanybody in California hurt by that?MR. HOEBER: Everybody in California will be th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC hurt by it, or is hurt by it in exactly the same way that,under this complaint as it would be if it had been broughtby the California Attorney General or by the Federal TradeCommission.The California statute, apart from the PrivateAttorney General provision, which is admittedly unusual,maybe unique, but apart from the Private Attorney Generalprovision, the California statute is essentially the sameas the Federal Trade Commission Act. Section of theFederal Trade Commission Act and the California statutehave the same standard of liability, which is likely tomislead, or likely to deceive.The Solicitor General's brief sets out the --the standards on the Federal section . They'reessentially the same, a claim that is likely to mislead people, that's material, and so under section under theCalifornia statute it is not required that -- that theplaintiff come in and prove actual deception, actualinjury, actual harm, so it's -- it's precisely the sameunder either scheme.QUESTION: May I -- may I interrupt to go backto your article, your final judgment argument for just amoment with respect to this? Supposing that we shouldhold that in a case like this, where you don't haveArticle III standing, that the case may not go forward th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC unless the plaintiff can meet the New York Times standard,prove actual malice and gross negligence and all the rest,but it could theoretically go forward if those allegationswere made.My question is, is it your understanding, as amatter of California law and as a matter of the history ofthis case, that you would have the right to -- to file anamendment to your complaint making those allegations?MR. HOEBER: Absolutely. Absolutely.QUESTION: Well, then, if that's true, is itclear the case is not final, the judgment of law is notfinal?MR. HOEBER: Well, on the -- on the same groundsI said before, we -- if the court were to add an --QUESTION: It would be only if we were to hold that no matter what you allege, New York Times or anythingelse, these statements are constitutionally immune fromcriticism in a proceeding of this kind. Only in that casewould the case really be final, if we held that.MR. HOEBER: Well, the case would certainly befinal if the Court held that.QUESTION: Yes.MR. HOEBER: We would not be able to amend thecase.QUESTION: Yes. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC MR. HOEBER: It would be over.On the Private Attorney General, because it isan unusual provision, I will only say this on -- on thequestion whether it was raised below. That's an easy --we said in our brief it was not raised below. That is aneasy matter to settle. Nike filed the brief. They filedthe brief in the California Supreme Court. It's their --QUESTION: Well, what -- what if it weren'traised below. I mean, if a basic First Amendmentchallenge to the statute is raised below, I mean, if youlose in the Supreme Court of California you're certainlynot just going to repeat exactly the same arguments.You're going to think up some new ones.MR. HOEBER: Well --(Laughter.)MR. HOEBER: I will only say as a matter of factit was not raised below. The California Supreme Court didnot address it. It's not even in the cert petition. Youcan look at pages , , and to , and they've got adifferent argument. It's not there. That's the fact.The upshot of not raising it below, I'm assumingthe Court doesn't address arguments that were notraised below.QUESTION: Well, the Escondido case says there'ssome latitude there. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC MR. HOEBER: And I -- and I -- I'm aware there'slatitude, and there's -- there's latitude as to what's anargument and what's a claim, but this is a very specificargument that the Private Attorney General provision isunconstitutional.QUESTION: Is it -- is it correct that in thecourt below they did raise the point that, in fact, therewas no harm here, and one of the defects of the procedurewas that no one, either suing, or no one of the class onbehalf of whom suit was brought had or was alleged to havehad suffered any injury? That was in their argument,wasn't it?MR. HOEBER: Not that I recall. I don't recallthat argument. The --QUESTION: If it was, would that be enough? MR. HOEBER: Well, it -- it certainly would notraise to my mind an attack on the Private Attorney Generalprovision, but I mean, the Private Attorney Generalprovision is a well-known and well -- and well-understoodprovision that stands out, and to -- to attack it, I thinkyou have to mention it.QUESTION: Well, I mean, if -- the -- theargument is not merely that there is something magicallywrong with a Private Attorney General. The argument isthat what's wrong with a Private Attorney General is that th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC without public accountability, the Attorney General cansue without, in effect, showing any harm, so whether youuse the term or not, that's the guts of the argument, andif they raise the guts below, isn't that enough to -- toget them into court?MR. HOEBER: If they raised the guts below, itwould be enough.QUESTION: Yes.MR. HOEBER: I -- I guess I would say theydidn't raise the guts below.QUESTION: Okay.MR. HOEBER: But if they did, yes, I --QUESTION: I would think out in California if alitigant is challenging a statute as unconstitutional inevery instance, that you cannot have such an institution of a Private Attorney General, doesn't the AttorneyGeneral weigh in on those cases?MR. HOEBER: Yes. The Attorney -- the AttorneyGeneral in California under this statute, and it's notjust for the Private Attorney General, but under the --the false advertising and -- and unfair competitionstatute, any time a -- a case gets on appeal the AttorneyGeneral gets served with the briefs, so when we appealedin the first instance we served the Attorney General withour briefs, and we -- in the court of appeal and again in th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC the California Supreme Court, and the Attorney Generalcame in and filed an amicus brief in the CaliforniaSupreme Court on our behalf, which of course only relatedto the merits, the commercial speech issue, which was theissue we were litigating.QUESTION: Not on the issue of whether you couldhave --MR. HOEBER: No.QUESTION: -- this kind of animal.MR. HOEBER: No. No. No.I want to draw the Court's attention to -- tofootnote in the reply brief. I think this may clarifysome matters, and -- and in particular the phrase in -- infootnote that says, public agencies.QUESTION: What page is that on?MR. HOEBER: I'm sorry, it's page , footnote ,and the reference to public agencies.The argument that -- that the Private AttorneyGeneral provision is unconstitutional because we don'thave any injury, and allege no injury, and it's -- andit's unconstitutional, the result of that argument is thatrespondent is an improper plaintiff, is just -- doesn't --doesn't meet constitutional requirements as an improperplaintiff.If the Court were to hold that, then there are th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC no further issues for this Court, and that is why Idirect -- I focus on footnote , because in footnote , asI -- as I read it, Nike is saying that even if the Courtholds that the Private Attorney General provision isunconstitutional because the plaintiff has no injury,nevertheless the Court should go on because there will befuture lawsuits filed by public agencies, and the Courtshould go on to impose a scienter requirement deliberateor reckless falsehood.And I want to say that those public agencies,which is another word for law enforcement, which would beCalifornia Attorney General, the district attorneys, andnot only California, other States and the FTC, they arenot before the Court. Those parties are not before theCourt. I don't think we can represent those parties. If -- if respondent is an improper plaintiff, there aren'tany further issues, and we can't --QUESTION: Can I --QUESTION: Well, you try to have it both ways. You say, well I'm here because I'm a Private AttorneyGeneral, but I -- I can't really try this case as well asan Attorney General could.MR. HOEBER: Well, no -- no --QUESTION: That seems to me quite inconsistent.MR. HOEBER: Well, I don't want to say that, th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC Your Honor. I want to say that -- that if we turn to themerits of this case and -- and get away from the PrivateAttorney General, if the Private Attorney General isconstitutional, then respondent is in the same shoes asthe Federal Trade Commission or the California AttorneyGeneral, and that as far as the merits, go there is nodifference.I said earlier that the California statute,statutory scheme is the same as section .QUESTION: Well, I accept that. I want to getyou just back once more if I can, and you may have nothingto add, but I -- suppose we have to get to what I find inthis case personally the hardest question, I think thatthe Federal Trade Commission certainly has the right toregulate unfair, deceptive advertising, particularly on matters of -- of, that you're trying to sell the product,including those having to do with, say, the environment.I also think that the First Amendment isdesigned to protect all participants in a public debate,and public debates, contrary, in my mind, to what you saidbefore, are made up of factual statements, primarily, soonce you tie a party's hands behind his back in respect tofacts, you've silenced him.Now, if all parties should participate equallyunder the First Amendment, and also you should be able to th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC have regulation by the FTC of deceptive advertising, howdo I draw that line?MR. HOEBER: Well, in this case, the reason Isay -- and I'm not trying to carve out facts as differentfrom, necessarily different from anything else. The factshere were representations about the conditions under whichthe product was made.QUESTION: I know, and I think --MR. HOEBER: All right. Now, those --QUESTION: Now, but that's not going to help me.MR. HOEBER: I'm sorry.QUESTION: What I'm really looking for is helpin writing a hypothetical opinion. I have to write astandard, or a rule, or a statement, and I know that briefs here, which are excellent, have tried to get at that, but I'm still in my mind uncertain about, say, yourview or the others on what that sentence should say,trying to distinguish the ones from the others.MR. HOEBER: Well, this case, and I -- and I'llstart with a focus here, the -- the debate in this casethat's in the complaint, and the only debate that's in thecomplaint, is the debate over what, in fact, was going onin the shoe factories, what in fact, were the conditions. That was the debate.Now, that debate is not the same as a public th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC debate about a larger public issue. It is a debate aboutthis company's actual practices.QUESTION: But is -- is it different for FirstAmendment purposes?MR. HOEBER: Well, I think -- I think it has tobe, Your Honor, because the -- the company is makingrepresentations to consumers about its own practices forthe purpose of convincing those consumers that they shouldbuy the company's products, so it is commercial speech inthat sense.QUESTION: Whereas if it --MR. HOEBER: It is not -- it is not a --QUESTION: Whereas if it were aboutglobalization and what is happening in these countries itwould be different for First Amendment purposes? MR. HOEBER: Yes. It would not be about thecompany's -- this -- these statements are about thecompany's products, the conditions under which theproducts are made.QUESTION: What difference would that make? I -- I really haven't been clear on what difference itmakes whether it's commercial or noncommercial. So longas it's false, and so long as it misleads somebody --MR. HOEBER: Well, the Court has said that if itis -- th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC QUESTION: Yes.MR. HOEBER: -- that if it is commercial speechand it's false or misleading, it's not protected by theFirst Amendment. I -- I --QUESTION: Yes.MR. HOEBER: It's also true that false factualstatements have no constitutional --QUESTION: No, but I mean, even if it's notcommercial speech, if somebody misleads me, to mydetriment, with a false statement, I wouldn't have a causeof action?MR. HOEBER: Yes, you would have a cause ofaction. You would certainly have a cause of action,and -- and if I sold you a watch and told you it was madein the United States and you relied on that and bought it from me and I lied, or -- or even if I innocently told youthat, you could rescind the transaction.QUESTION: Is -- is the only way I can rely tomy detriment is if -- if it is commercial speech? I mean,it seems to me if I rely on a -- on a statement that --that the person expects me to rely on, and I do so, and itharms me, I have a cause of action. I -- does it reallymatter --MR. HOEBER: I -- I --QUESTION: -- whether it's commercial or th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC noncommercial speech?MR. HOEBER: I suspect it does not, for a -- fora cause of action alleging reliance to my detriment and --QUESTION: Can you think of any case that thisCourt has decided in which the outcome has depended onwhether or not the speech was commercial, other than thecase the California Supreme Court decided?MR. HOEBER: There -- there is a paucity ofauthority from this Court that was --QUESTION: I wonder if there's any at all.(Laughter.)MR. HOEBER: -- directly on point.QUESTION: Yes.MR. HOEBER: No.The case that -- that was most important, and this maybe gets back to Justice Breyer's point, for ourpurposes would be the Egg Commission case -- the EggCommission case, the National Commission on Egg Nutrition,because there was a product and there were attacks on theproduct saying it caused -- that the cholesterol was bad,and this is years ago, and it was new, and -- and theFederal Trade -- and the egg industry fought back and saidno, eggs -- eggs are helpful in nutrition, and -- and theydon't harm, so that was a case where you had a dispute, ora debate about the product. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC QUESTION: Yes, but where I am really is, I -- Ithink it's possible to look at the commercial speech casesas creating a doctrine with an exception, and it's theunfair advertising that falls outside the doctrine, so allwe know is, we're back to square as far as thecommercial speech doctrine is concerned, so let's face itas if there were no such doctrine and try to figure outhow under the First Amendment we get proper standards.MR. HOEBER: Well --QUESTION: And that -- and that's what I'mtrying to figure out.MR. HOEBER: Well, I -- yes. If -- if the Courtwants to do that in this case, on this record --QUESTION: I mean, I don't know if we want to doit or not do it. I'm trying to figure out what -- how to go about it if I ended up thinking we should go about it.(Laughter.)MR. HOEBER: Then -- then my suggestion is thatthis case alleges specific representations about a -- acompany's products, namely the conditions under which theywere made. Consumers rely on those representations. TheSolicitor General agrees with that. They rely on thoserepresentations, and they rely on them in making decisionsas to whether or not to buy the company's products.When companies make representations about their th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC products with the purpose of consumers relying on thoserepresentations, and consumers do rely on thoserepresentations, it violates section of the FederalTrade Commission Act, it violates the California statute,and it ought to be subject to regulation.QUESTION: Well, just becomes somethingviolates -- you're suggesting that if it -- if it'scontrary to section of the Federal Trade Commission Act,surely it must be constitutional, but I'm not sure -- Idon't know that we've ever said that everything in theFederal Trade Commission Act is constitutional.MR. HOEBER: No, I'm sure the Court has not saidthat, and I -- and I'm -- and I --QUESTION: Let's --QUESTION: Go on.QUESTION: Let's assume a -- a law that --that -- I -- I guess that -- that there were, that -- thatrequires advertising on radio or television to besupported, that you -- you cannot make the claim unlessthe claim is supported, all right, and the burden is onyou to have the support before you can even make it, andit's a violation, even -- even if it happens to be true,if -- if you have not done the studies that show that thislittle pill does this thing or -- or another, you cannotmake the statement. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC Now, I suppose we would allow that in -- inadvertising, wouldn't we? But would we allow such a --such a precondition to -- to speech in -- in anoncommercial area?MR. HOEBER: I'm sure -- I suspect not.QUESTION: So there is a difference between whatwe're willing to do with commercial speech andnoncommercial speech, but why -- why wouldn't we limit it,limit the term commercial speech in that context toadvertising, to really -- and -- and some of our casesspeak that way. It has to be the context of the offeringof a -- of a transaction, the offering of a deal.So that if you have some general, you know,advertising on television, we're a -- we're a -- anenvironmentally concerned company, it doesn't fall within commercial speech. It's only if in connection -- youknow, on the -- on the label it says, buy this because, oryou know, it's a pitch to sell the product.Isn't that a line that it's feasible to draw,and why isn't that a sensible line?MR. HOEBER: Well, it may be feasible to draw. I -- I imagine it would be difficult to draw, and I thinkthat's why the Federal Trade Commission says advertising,product labels, other promotions and marketing material,because it in many instances is not easy to draw -- th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC QUESTION: Well, the California Supreme Courtdefined commercial speech as speech when a person isengaged in commerce. Just generally, is that their basis?MR. HOEBER: Oh, I think the California SupremeCourt was trying to spell out what it -- what it --QUESTION: Do you defend the California SupremeCourt's --MR. HOEBER: Well --QUESTION: -- definition?MR. HOEBER: We don't need to go as far as theCalifornia Supreme Court may have gone, in particular withits definition of product references, because I think theCalifornia Supreme Court was concerned about so-calledimage advertising and the possible ways companies promotethemselves apart from this particular product. QUESTION: Well, if it -- if this case -- if wereach the merits, and if we have to address it, we'regoing to have to know what commercial speech is, Isuppose.MR. HOEBER: Yes.QUESTION: And we're going to have to look atCalifornia's definition.MR. HOEBER: Yes.QUESTION: And I just wondered if you supportedthat. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC MR. HOEBER: Well, we support it, but we don'thave to go as far, because in this -- because we haverepresentations about the product, the -- thecircumstances under which the product was made.We certainly agree that --QUESTION: None of this speech was advertisingin the true sense of that term, was it?MR. HOEBER: Well, if the true sense meansadvertising format, no, these were not in advertisingformat, but for example, the -- the -- one of the exhibitsis the -- is a primer, a -page primer, which looks forall the world like the kind of promotional brochures andmarketing material that's handed out by lots of companies.Now, it's not an advertisement on television,and -- and that line may be feasible to draw, or it may --may have fuzzy edges, but it's going to leave out a lot ofpromotions and a lot of communications that consumers relyon.QUESTION: Yes. It's not a perfect world.MR. HOEBER: No. No.(Laughter.)QUESTION: But it's worse -- it's worse,actually, because I think your case, the truth of thematter is, I think it's both. You know, it's both. They're both trying to sell their product and they're th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC trying to make a statement that's relevant to a publicdebate.MR. HOEBER: Maybe the --QUESTION: And so what do we do if we're drawingthis standard, and there's a wide range of things thatquite honestly fall into both?MR. HOEBER: Well, my -- my position is thatit's -- consumer protection is --QUESTION: Trumps the First Amendment?MR. HOEBER: Not that it trumps the FirstAmendment --QUESTION: Yes.MR. HOEBER: -- but -- but the hypothetical is,it's both.QUESTION: Yes, that's right.MR. HOEBER: And -- and if it were just the --if it was -- if it was -- companies -- the Court has saidthat companies have the right, or speakers have the rightto comment directly on public issues, and -- and if youcomment directly on a public issue and discuss the publicissue, you are certainly protected.QUESTION: If it's very difficult to definecommercial speech, then isn't it true that under thisscheme companies are chilled in speaking?MR. HOEBER: Well, they -- they may be chilled th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC in speaking if -- because of the difficulty in definingcommercial speech, and that presumably will chill falsestatements as well, since the -- the statute and theregulation only applies to false or misleading speech,and -- and I think that to the extent the -- thedefinition is -- is unclear, it may -- I don't know thatfor a fact, but it's -- it's plausible.QUESTION: Are -- are there cases where we'veupheld statutes that are chilling of speech?MR. HOEBER: Oh yes. Yes, there are.QUESTION: What are they?(Laughter.)MR. HOEBER: Well --QUESTION: We haven't said that they're chillingof speech.(Laughter.)MR. HOEBER: I think you caught me there, YourHonor.On -- back to -- to Justice Breyer's question. I don't think anybody would say defining commercial speechis easy, but in this case, where we allege that -- wherethe complaint alleges that the company made factualrepresentations about its -- the circumstances under whichits products are made, with the purpose of persuadingconsumers to buy the product, and we know that consumers th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC want that information and rely on that information, thatshould fit within any reasonable definition of commercialspeech. If --QUESTION: Are you saying that you can'tdistinguish what you are targeting from, say, a label thatsays, made by disabled veterans, when it wasn't? You --you put them in the same category?MR. HOEBER: I put that in the commercial speechcategory.QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. Hoeber.MR. HOEBER: Thank you, Your Honor.QUESTION: Mr. Tribe, you have minutesremaining.REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF LAURENCE H. TRIBEON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERSMR. TRIBE: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice.Let me just deal with a couple of technicalthings first. The Attorney General of California wasnotified below. He filed a brief. It's not required inCalifornia that all of the arguments be rehearsed beforehim, and most importantly the California Supreme Courtpassed on the fundamental claim that this scheme, appliedto public debate, violates the First Amendment, and underYee v. Escondido in any event we can make a differentargument. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC But if you look at the brief below, the mosttelling part of it, I think -- and it gets to the pivot ofthis case -- this is at pages to of the CaliforniaSupreme Court brief. It there recites that if the shoe,as it were, were on the other foot, under California lawthis case would go away in an instant.The case decided unanimously by the SupremeCourt of California in is Epic v. Superior Court. Inthat case there was an ideological boycott of companiesthat were doing business with the plaintiff. Theplaintiff was not thought to be environmentally friendlyenough. The plaintiff sued for trade libel, they wanteddamages, they wanted an injunction, they said it wasinterference with contract. The trial court was about tohold the trial and the Supreme Court of California, citing Article , section of its constitution, said, hey,public debate, there are interests on both sides, but thecourts of California can't resolve it.It seems to me that what we have here, and thisgoes to the question of the Private Attorney Generalaction, is that if there is a debate between interests oflabor and interests of management, the California SupremeCourt has transmogrified this old statute, which waspretty strange to begin with but had never been used tostifle and silence the public debate, it's transformed it th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC into a conversation-stopper, and the power to do that is,I think, extraordinary.They say, maybe there will be a chill. If youlook at the media brief, the media are now saying thatbusinesses around the world are already afraid tocommunicate with us because California may get them, andthe European brief, filed by a consortium that controlsabout $ trillion of investment, says that the efforts ofthe European Union to encourage transparency are beingfrustrated by California saying that if you come out andanswer these charges, as they did in the letter to theathletic directors, you can be trapped, because you're abusiness, so you're trying to make money, so it'scommercial speech.CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: Thank you, Mr. Tribe. The case is submitted.MR. TRIBE: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice.(Whereupon, at : p.m., the case in theabove-entitled matter was submitted.) th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC 