 IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES- - - - - - - - - - - - - -XUNITED STATES POSTAL SERVICE, Petitioner :::v. : No. -FLAMINGO INDUSTRIES (USA) :LTD., ET AL. :- - - - - - - - - - - - - -XWashington, D.C.Monday, December , The above-entitled matter came on for oralargument before the Supreme Court of the United States at: a.m.APPEARANCES:EDWIN S. KNEEDLER, ESQ., Deputy Solicitor General, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on behalf ofthe Petitioner.HAROLD J. KRENT, ESQ., Chicago, Illinois; on behalf of theRespondents. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. C O N T E N T SORAL ARGUMENT OF EDWIN S. KNEEDLER, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioner HAROLD J. KRENT, ESQ.On behalf of the Respondents REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OFEDWIN S. KNEEDLER, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioner PAGE th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. P R O C E E D I N G S(: a.m.)CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: We'll hear argumentnow in No. -, the United States Postal Service v.Flamingo Industries.Mr. Kneedler.ORAL ARGUMENT OF EDWIN S. KNEEDLERON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERMR. KNEEDLER: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice, andmay it please the Court:The Ninth Circuit held in this case that theUnited States Postal Service may be sued for trebledamages under the Federal antitrust laws. The court ofappeals fundamentally erred in this holding. Throughoutthe nation's history, postal operations have been carriedout by the United States Government itself, pursuant tothe express authorization in article I of theConstitution, for Congress to establish post offices andpost roads.As this Court explained in the Council ofGreenburgh case about years ago, the furnishing ofpostal services has historically been regarded as asovereign function, indeed a sovereign necessity, topromote intercourse among the states and bind the nationtogether. Such functions of the United States Government th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. are not regulated by the antitrust laws.Indeed, more than years ago, in the CooperCorporation case, this Court held that the United Statesis not a person for purposes of the antitrust laws. Although the precise question before the Court in thatcase was whether the United States could sue as aplaintiff under section of the Sherman Act, the Courtnoted that the same word, person, is used to describe whomay be held liable as a defendant, either in a civilaction or in a criminal prosecution.QUESTION: Mr. Kneedler, in your view, are thereany instrumentalities of the United States that you thinkcould be considered a person under the Sherman Act?MR. KNEEDLER: Well, I - I think that there are no instrumentalities that are constituent parts of theUnited States Government itself that could - that could beheld liable. The word instrumentality is used in a - in asomewhat vague sense, elastic sense, and I think it wouldbe necessary to look at the particular statute to see howmuch of a governmental character a particular entity has.QUESTION: Of course, I guess the court whosejudgment we're reviewing thought that the change in thestructure of the Postal Service affected the nature ofthat instrumentality.MR. KNEEDLER: It - it - it did, but the - the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. court of appeals was wrong on that. First of all, afterthe - the court of - after the - this Court's Cooperdecision, a number of lower court decisions have held,beginning with the D.C. Circuit's decision in the Sea-Land case involving the Alaska Railroad, that agencies ofthe United States or instrumentalities just like theUnited States itself is not a person subject to theantitrust laws. The Ninth Circuit didn't -QUESTION: Mr. Kneedler - Mr. Kneedler, but Idon't think in that case there was - the question wasraised whether the Alaska Railroad was an agent of theUnited States that would - would carry the immunity of theUnited States.MR. KNEEDLER: Well, the - the - it was - the Court regarded it as an - as an instrumentality, and infact the - the Court there recognized that the railroadand the officials of the Government responsible forsupervising the railroad could be sued under the APA, andthat, therefore, there had been a waiver of sovereignimmunity to that extent, and to the extent of allowinginjunctive relief. So the - the Court certainly focusedon the question that the Alaska Railroad and thoseresponsible for managing it were part of the United StatesGovernment.QUESTION: I didn't think it was a contested th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. issue in - in that case.MR. KNEEDLER: It may not have been contested,but it - but it - the Court certainly addressed thatquestion and then went on to hold that as aninstrumentality of the United States, the - the railroadwas not subject to suit under the antitrust law.QUESTION: Is the Postal Service subject to theAdministrative Procedure Act?MR. KNEEDLER: It is not. It - it - Congressspecifically accepted it that there's - in section ofthe act, there's a very detailed enumeration of theprovisions that Congress did want and did not want to be -the Postal Service to be subject to. But the - theimportant point for present purposes is that in , when Congress enacted the Postal Reorganization Act, it carriedforward the essential governmental character of the PostalService, just as it had been up until that point.In fact, section (a) of the act says that theUnited States - and I quote - the United States PostalService shall be operated as a basic and fundamentalservice provided to the people by the Government of theUnited States. And then it says, the Postal Service shallhave as its basic function the obligation to providepostal services to bind the nation together.QUESTION: So you say it carried forward the - th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. the essential governmental character. What - what doesthat consist of? Doesn't it consist of the nature of theentity, not just - just the - the tag? It can't just puta tag on it and - and say it has an essentiallygovernmental character. I thought that the - that thepurpose of the reorganization was to make the PostalService function like a regular business.MR. KNEEDLER: In - in a - in a limited sense. Congress -QUESTION: Well, I'll - I'll qualify it. Aregular business, a regular public utility -MR. KNEEDLER: No, I - I -QUESTION: - which has - which has certainobligations, yes. They have to do universal - universal mail service, just as a telephone company has to giveuniversal telephone service. But on the other hand, therest of their operations were supposed to be business-like.MR. KNEEDLER: In the - in the description of -of how the Postal Service was to be operated carryingforward, the - the Congress repeatedly referred to thePostal Service as - as a governmental function, a publicservice to be operated in a business-like way. But whatCongress meant by that was to insulate the Postal Servicefrom the prior political interference that had come up by th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. imposing the duty on Congress to repeatedly raise ratesand - and address services.QUESTION: Insulated from the Government.MR. KNEEDLER: Not - but by -QUESTION: You're - you're saying on the one handit's part of the Government, but on the other hand, whatCongress wanted to do was to insulate it from theGovernment.MR. KNEEDLER: No. By - by no means insulate itfrom the Government. The Postal Service - the governorsof the Postal Service are denominated officers of theUnited States, so the people responsible for the PostalService are officers of the United States.QUESTION: Are they - are they removable by the President?MR. KNEEDLER: They're removable for cause.QUESTION: For cause. Just like the heads ofindependent agencies.MR. KNEEDLER: Yes, but - but certainly the otherindependent agencies like the Federal Trade Commission andagencies like that are part of the United StatesGovernment performing a governmental function.QUESTION: Congress never said that they weresupposed to operate like a business, which was the purposeof the Reorganization Act. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. MR. KNEEDLER: Actually, in the - in the text ofthe act itself, there - there is - there is not an expressdirective that the Postal Service will be operated like acommercial entity. What Congress had in mind was to - wasto rationalize the internal operations of the PostalService, but it did not change any of the fundamental waysin which the Postal Service operated. It - it maintainedthe postal monopoly, which, under the private expressstatutes, about percent of the revenues of the PostalService are - are protected by the private express -QUESTION: It - it did - it did retain thatmonopoly and - and the Government's position here is thatthe Postal Service has the power to extend that monopolyinto fields that the Government did not specifically confer upon it, right? Because the Government's position,as I understand it, is not only that the Postal Servicecan't be sued under the antitrust laws, but that the -that the Postal Service is not subject to the antitrustlaws.MR. KNEEDLER: It is not a person within themeaning of the antitrust laws.QUESTION: So it can - it can go ahead and extendthe monopoly conferred by statute beyond the - the narrowcontext granted by Congress.MR. KNEEDLER: That is not a - that is not a new th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. feature of the - of the Postal Service. As we point outin our reply brief, quoting this Court's decision in theEmergency Fleet Corporation case, there the Court pointedout, with respect to the Post Office, it said the PostOffice has since competed with bankers through moneyorders, it competed with savings and loan associationthrough savings accounts, which the Postal Serviceoperated -QUESTION: Suppose there - suppose there were anactionable violation of the antitrust laws and there was aconspiracy between two private suppliers, and the PostalService, through some of its high officers, joined thatconspiracy. Would there be any liability, individualliability, on the part of the officers of the Postal Service?MR. KNEEDLER: I - I'm not sure about that. ThePostal Service itself would not be - would not be liable,and I - and I think if the - I guess it depends on whatone means by a - by a conspiracy as well, because if the -the Postal Service has brought authority in procurement,for example, to - it's exempt from some of the Federalprocurement statutes, but Congress granted it theauthority to have its own procurement arrangements. So ifthe - if - if a - if the Postmaster General decides on aparticular procurement methodology that - that was alleged th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. to be anti-competitive, I don't think that could be fairlycharacterized as a conspiracy, even -QUESTION: Is the private express statute stillin effect?MR. KNEEDLER: It is, it is, and that has - thathas not been changed, and the Court discussed that in theCalifornia Board of Regents case and other - and otherdecisions of this Court. Really, the - all the NinthCircuit relied upon in - in this case was the presence ofa sue-and-be-sued clause in the Postal Reorganization Act,which simply says that the Postal Service may sue and besued in its official name.There is a - there is virtually no discussion ofthat provision in the legislative history of the act, and the Ninth Circuit essentially said that because the PostalService may sue - may be sued in its official name,therefore, it has - its sovereign character has been castoff and it can be sued just like a private party.That - that analysis is in direct conflict withthis Court's decision in FDIC v. Meyer, where the Courtreversed a similar determination with respect to the FDIC,saying that the Ninth Circuit had conflated what are twoanalytically distinct questions. The first is whetherthere is a waiver of sovereign immunity. We do notdispute that there is a waiver of sovereign immunity here th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. under the sue-and-be-sued clause. But the - the secondand critical question here is whether the - thesubstantive law that the plaintiff relies upon provides anavenue for relief.In this case, that is the antitrust laws, andCongress has never amended the antitrust laws to make anagency or an entity of the United States Governmentliable. After the decision in Cooper - CooperCorporation, Congress amended the Clayton Act to allow theUnited States to sue as a plaintiff if it's injured in itsbusiness or property, but it did not do that by changingthe word person. It - it explicitly provided a cause ofaction for the United States as the United States, but itdid not, as the D.C. Circuit pointed out in the Sea-Land case, amend the definition of person or otherwise make theUnited States or its constituent parts subject to theantitrust laws as a - as a defendant.QUESTION: What happens - I'm sorry, go on.QUESTION: Mr. Kneedler, is this - section ofTitle says, there is established as an independentestablishment of the executive branch of the Government ofthe United States the United States Post Office. Was thatin the statute before the reorganization or is that partof the reorganization?MR. KNEEDLER: That's part of the reorganization. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. There was a Post Office Department before that was part ofthe Cabinet, and what - what Congress wanted to do was totake the post - postal operations out of the Cabinet andput them under - under the Board of Governors, who areofficers of the United States but not part of the Cabinet. And the - the phrase, establishment of the executivebranch, is used with respect to other undeniably Federalagencies, as we point out in our - in our brief, the OPM,Office of Personnel Management, the Transportation SafetyBoard.And I - I think it's just intended to makeclearer that the Postal Service was not to be under thePresident's direct control, and in fact there wereproposals to make the Postal Service a corporation, and Congress emphatically rejected that. And instead, asPresident Nixon proposed in - in submitting a proposal toCongress, the Postal Service would be constituted as anagency like the SEC or NASA or the Board of Governors ofthe Federal Reserve System. All of those entities are -are performing quintessentially governmental functionsthat are not subject to the antitrust laws.QUESTION: If I get into a car accident with a -with a postal delivery truck, do I sue the United Statesunder the Federal tort claims?MR. KNEEDLER: Yes, yes, you do. And - and - th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. it's - it's an important thing to - to be clear about inthe Postal Reorganization Act. Pervasively throughoutthat statute, Congress treated the Postal Service as agovernmental entity. The torts are subject to the FederalTort Claims Act.QUESTION: Mr. Kneedler, where does the moneycome to pay the judgment? Is it -MR. KNEEDLER: Out of the - out of the PostalService fund, but that is a fund in the Treasury. There'sa separate provision -QUESTION: But it isn't the general judgmentfund?MR. KNEEDLER: No - no, it's - no, it's not, but- but there are other - other situations in whichappropriated funds from a particular agency are used toreimburse the judgment fund if there's a particularappropriation set aside for that purpose, so this is not aunique feature of - of the - of the Postal Act. But if I could also mention, torts are subjectto suit against the United States, but with respect tocontracts, Congress subjected the Postal Service to theContract Disputes Act. The Court of Claims held almost years ago, soon after the act was passed, that the UnitedStates itself could be sued under the Tucker Act based ona breach of contract with the Postal Service, because of th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. the close connection between the Postal Service and theUnited States.The Postal Service could be sued in districtcourt in its own name under the sue-and-be-sued clause forbreach of contract, but the Court of Claims held that -that the United States itself can be sued, and thereforeis responsible for the contracts of - of the PostalService, and it -QUESTION: Could the United States sue - bring anantitrust suit as plaintiff on behalf of the PostalService?MR. KNEEDLER: We - we believe it could. Itwould - it would be brought in its own name, but - but theUnited States - if the Postal Service, just like any other entity, purchased goods, for example, and was a victim of- of a - of a - of an antitrust violation, the UnitedStates would be able to sue and - and collect trebledamages. That was the purpose of the Cooper Corporationcase, where there was a procurement of tires by a numberof different Federal agencies, and Congress authorized theUnited States to bring a suit to recover for the injuriessustained to Federal agencies generally in that situation.QUESTION: Under this sue-and-be-sued clause, isit your position that there must always be a Federalstatute authorizing the suit before the post office has th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. any substantive liability?MR. KNEEDLER: As a general rule, yes. There -before the Federal Tort Claims Act was passed though, itwas assumed that tort claims could be brought againstFederal entities that had sue-and-be-sued clauses,although a lot of those were private corporations thatwere instrumentalities, not - not Federal agencies. Andalso with respect -QUESTION: So the sue-and-be-sued clause doeshave some substantive force in some other cases?MR. KNEEDLER: It's - it's been - it's unclearbecause back when they were first put in the - in thestatutes, the - the separation of a - the existence of awaiver of sovereign immunity and the existence of a cause of action were - were not separated the way they aretoday. For example, under the - under the Tucker Act, aplaintiff can bring a breach of contract action againstthe United States, even though there's no statute thatspecifically provides a cause of action for breach ofcontract. It's thought that - that the reference tocontracts in the Tucker Act is a sufficient basis forthat, and we -QUESTION: Does the Post Office have the power ofeminent domain?MR. KNEEDLER: It does, it does, and it has - it th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. - it carries forward the power to investigate postaloffenses, to - to - with appropriate authorization, tosearch the mails. QUESTION: There's a lot of -QUESTION: What about - what about inversecondemnation? Supposing the post office takes propertywithout the ability to pay for it.MR. KNEEDLER: I don't know that the question hasarisen, but I - I would assume that a - a suit could bebrought against the United States under the Tucker Act onthe same theory that I mentioned with respect to a breachof contract by the Postal Service.QUESTION: Mr. Kneedler -QUESTION: Don't - before we get off of eminent domain, don't - don't a lot of state public utilityentities have the power of eminent domain?MR. KNEEDLER: They - they do, and that -QUESTION: So that really doesn't determine what-MR. KNEEDLER: Well, I - I think it's part of anoverall pattern.QUESTION: And they're subject to the ShermanAct, of course.MR. KNEEDLER: Right. But it's part of anoverall pattern. Congress does not lightly confer the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. right of eminent domain on - on Federal agencies, but it'spart of a general pattern in which the United States -excuse me, in which Congress treated the Postal Service asa - as a governmental entity.I did want to point out one particular way thatillustrates the - the way in which the antitrust laws areunsuitable here. The precise - this is - this is atbottom a routine - a routine procurement dispute. And asthe Ninth Circuit held in this case, the plaintiffs herehad a cause of action, in fact, brought one under theAdministrative Disputes Resolution Act that is essentiallya bid protest statute.And there are two features of that statute thatare inconsistent with antitrust liability in this setting. First of all, Congress expressly provided that thestandard of review in such an action is the arbitrary andcapricious standard of the APA, meaning that the PostalService, like any other Federal agency subject to that,has to have broad latitude -QUESTION: It seems to me, Mr. Kneedler, this isan argument that you don't have an antitrust violationhere, but we're concerned with the problem of whether youhad a classic violation, say they agreed with somebodyelse on the prices they would charge for advertising theOlympics or something like that, where you had a clear - th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. here you don't have it clear. I think it's arguablewhether the alleged violation - but that's not the issuebefore us.MR. KNEEDLER: Well, except - except to thisextent. In - in virtually every direction you turn, inlooking on how - on how disputes involving the PostalService are handled, you find a governmental disputeresolution mechanism, and that - this was the point aboutthe -QUESTION: But what about a breach of -infringement of patents, for example? MR. KNEEDLER: There's - there's expressauthorization for suing the United States for -QUESTION: And infringement of copyrights and so forth?MR. KNEEDLER: Same - same thing. Where Congresshas wanted to provide the United -QUESTION: Supposing there was a - one of theseantitrust violations that involved abuses of patents inorder to extend a monopoly or something like that, thatcould be a classic antitrust violation. But you say thereare other Federal remedies there?MR. KNEEDLER: There - there might be - theremight be remedies under some of the statutes mentionedhere. There - I mean, Congress has expressly subjected th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. the United States to suit under the Lanham Act, under thecopyright statute, under - under the trademark laws, underthe patent laws, but - and - and then there are theseprocurement statutes that I mentioned that are applicablein this particular case. But in this case as well,Congress did not provide for treble damages. The onlymonetary relief a plaintiff could get in this procurementsituation, as we point out in our brief under theAdministrative Dispute Resolution Act, is bid preparationcosts, not treble damages.QUESTION: What if - what if the Post Office buysa lot of paper from somebody and doesn't pay for it? What's - what is the remedy of that person on a contract?MR. KNEEDLER: There would be an alternativeremedies. Before the Contract Disputes Act was passed,the Postal Service could have been sued itself in its ownname under the sue-and-be-sued clause, or in the Tuck -under the Tucker Act in the - in the Court of Claims. Nowunder the Contract Disputes Act, Congress has made thatstatute applicable to the Postal Service just as it has toother Federal entities.QUESTION: And that could be - that sort of anaction could be brought under the Contract Disputes Act?MR. KNEEDLER: Yes. And there is specifically aPostal Service board of contract appeals, just there - as th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. there is a board of contract appeals in - in otheragencies.QUESTION: Would there be an - some alternativeremedy to the antitrust law if the Postal Service decidedto use its profits from the monopoly business in effect tosubsidize predatory rates in the package delivery businessin order to put UPS out of business?MR. KNEEDLER: The way - the way Congressaddressed that was to subject the Postal Service to thejurisdiction of the Postal Rate Commission, and all -QUESTION: Well, let's assume they go along withit. They say, okay, we are going to eliminate UPS. Wouldthere be any alternative claim - source of remedy by UPSto the antitrust laws?MR. KNEEDLER: Well, I would - I would - if the -a decision - it's a complicated mechanism the way thePostal Rate Commission interacts with the Postal Service,but there is a provision for judicial review. If thePostal Service enters a final decision after - afterreceiving the input from the Postal Rate Commission, thereis a provision for judicial review of that - ofdeterminations of -QUESTION: What would be the -MR. KNEEDLER: - rates and classifications.QUESTION: What would be the substantive basis th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. for the review?MR. KNEEDLER: Under - under the PostalReorganization Act, the provisions beginning in - insection of the act address rate-making andclassification, and there are specific standards therethat the Postal Rate Commission and the Postal Servicemust adhere to.QUESTION: And - and would it eliminate thispossibility of predatory lowing - lowering rates for -MR. KNEEDLER: They - they are designed to. The- the - the way the - the way the act operates, itspecifies that each classification - first - two things:one, overall, the Postal Service rates are to be set at arate so that they - the income will roughly equal expenditures. And then within each class, Congress hasprovided the direct and indirect costs of that class areto be allocated to it, along with some - an appropriateportion of the institutional costs, the things that aredifficult to - to allocate to any one - any one class.QUESTION: Of course, this only becomes a realproblem when the Postal Service turns a profit on itsmonopoly business, which it has not yet succeeded indoing, has it?MR. KNEEDLER: Well, and - and it's not - overthe long term, over the long term since the Postal th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. Reorganization Act, I believe that the Postal Service iswithin about a billion dollars of breaking even. Thereare times when it is in a deficit. There are times whenit is in a surplus, but the statutory goal is that it -that it be roughly equal balance between - between incomeand expenditures.QUESTION: Mr. Kneedler, can I ask you a basicquestion I just kind of forgotten that I thought I knewabout, but I thought the Postal Service had a monopoly ofthe business of delivering letters and packages, and thatthese competing services are only allowed to exist by somespecial privilege granted by the Postal Service.MR. KNEEDLER: Yes. That's true for letters, butnot for parcel post.QUESTION: But not for parcel, I see.MR. KNEEDLER: Yes. There's - there's an - thePostal Service adopted an exception to the private expressstatutes for urgent letters, which - which has allowedorganizations like Federal Express to carry letters forurgent delivery. Absent that exception, they would - thatpractice would be prohibited by the - by the privateexpress statutes.But the - the idea that the Postal Servicecompetes with non-Federal entities is not new. As I - asI pointed out, the Postal Service began competing with th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. money orders before the turn of the last century, for years have had savings deposits with up to milliondepositors that competed with savings associations, so and- and it's competed - it went into the parcel postbusiness, the parcel delivery business in alongsideof other businesses.So that - that sort of competition with privatebusinesses has - has occurred since well before the PostalReorganization Act, and nothing in the PostalReorganization Act changes the way in which that should beregarded under the - under the antitrust laws.If the Court has no further questions, I'd liketo reserve the balance of my time.QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. Kneedler. Mr. Krent, we'll hear from you.ORAL ARGUMENT OF HAROLD J. KRENTON BEHALF OF RESPONDENTSMR. KRENT: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it pleasethe Court:As Justice Scalia noted, Congress launched thePostal Service into the commercial world in ,authorizing it to compete in any market of its ownchoosing, and this new commercial entity fits comfortablywithin the term, person, under the antitrust laws for atleast four distinct reasons. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. First, this is unlike any other Federal entityin the fact that the Postal Service has been authorized todecide which markets it wants to compete into. It's notcompeting in order to fulfill a specific congressionalmission, but rather to compete in order to break even tomake money.Second, Congress has directed the Postal Serviceenter these markets with scant regulatory oversight. TheAPA, the Postal Rate Commission, the Federal acquisitionregulations, all do not apply when the Postal Service isacting under its non-monopoly powers.QUESTION: You're saying then that the Cooperdecision doesn't affect your argument, because the - theCongress has separated the Post Office Department from the - from the executive?MR. KRENT: That's correct, Your Honor. And inmany other contexts, though, it's clear that this Courthas recognized that the Postal Service should be distinctfrom the United States, the Franchise Tax opinion, theLoeffler decision, and I think the other -QUESTION: Well, neither of those are quite inpoint.MR. KRENT: Neither are involved in separatecause of action, but both involve this Court's recognitionthat the Postal Service is not the same as United States th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. and should be treated differently.QUESTION: But what do you do with the statutorylanguage that it's an establishment of the executivebranch of the Government of the United States?MR. KRENT: Well, I think it is an establishmentof the executive branch, and it keeps some kind ofconnection to the United States, and so, for instance,Congress evidently cared about the fact that, given themonopoly given over letter mail, that there would be sometie. I mean, the - the President cannot, can neitherappoint nor discharge the Postmaster General, but yetthere is some link between the President and the PostalService. Yet financially, the Postal Service isindependent.QUESTION: There isn't any Postmaster Generalanymore, is there?MR. KRENT: Well, there - there is, Your Honor,in terms of the individual who's so-called under thestatute the executive official of the - of the UnitedStates, and that individual is to - is also a member ofthe Board of Governors of the Postal Service and is todirect and execute the business operations of the PostalService.QUESTION: How is he selected? By the Board ofGovernors? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. MR. KRENT: Chosen by the Board of - yes, YourHonor. And I think that, again, Evans is the separationor the insulation of the Postal Service from directexecutive branch control. But financially, as Imentioned, the debts of the Postal Service are not thedebts of the United States. Any kind of - of recoveryagainst the Postal Service does not come from the judgmentfund, it comes from the Postal Service fund. Again, thesetwo things reflect the fact that the budget, as well asthe overall financial structure of the Postal Service, isindependent.And - and the fourth reason, Your Honor, of whythe Postal Service is a distinct entity is - is the factthat there is a sue-and-be-sued clause that differentiatesthis case from the Sea-Land case, in which there was nosue-and-be-sued clause.QUESTION: It doesn't differentiate though fromthe Meyer case?MR. KRENT: No, Your Honor, and indeed, we thinkthough that the - these four factors together amplydemonstrate that this is a - there is a congressionalintent that the Postal Service be considered a separate,distinct entity that can qualify under the term, person,in antitrust laws. And indeed, this is not an unadornedsue-and-be-sued clause. Congress sat and thought about th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. the ramifications of the sue-and-be-sued clause andthought about what specific limitations should be graftedon to the waiver of immunity. It decided to make sure thePostal Service complied with the Federal Tort Claims Act. It wanted to make sure that the Postal Service, despitethe distinction with the United States, viewed its own -had different venue - had the same venue.QUESTION: But Meyer says you have to havesomething more than a sue-and-be-sued clause, that youhave to show that there's a cause of action available. Soa sue-and-be-sued clause itself is not enough for you inthis case, don't you agree with that?MR. KRENT: I agree, Your Honor, and indeed it'sthe fact that the antitrust laws say that every person should be subject to the anti-competitive measures, orpro-competitive measures, in - in the statutes.QUESTION: Well, yes, but the - that was true -they said that in the Cooper case too, that person, andthe Cooper Court said, no, the United States is not aperson.MR. KRENT: That's right, Your Honor, but I thinkthe Cooper case must be looked at in the structure of thedecision itself, because the Cooper Court was very clearto limit its decision. It said that person did not equalUnited States because of the fact that there were other th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. remedies given to the United States explicitly in the act,and indeed, that that conformed to -QUESTION: But certainly after the Cooperdecision, it was clear that the United States could not bea defendant either, was it not, as well as not be aplaintiff -MR. KRENT: Well, it didn't matter Your Honor,because there was no waiver of immunity.QUESTION: Well, answer my question, will you?MR. KRENT: I believe that it was clear, because- but, again, I think that nobody tried to availthemselves of that remedy because the United States hadnot waived its immunity. But this Court extended thenotion of the - of person, and to as broad as possible, including states, including foreign governments, as wellas associations and public corporations.QUESTION: Didn't the Court say in Cooper, thereason why we're not letting the United States be a personas plaintiff, because if we did that it would follow likethe night day that they would be a person as a defendant,and we certainly don't want them to be a person as adefendant? So that's right in the -MR. KRENT: Well, we have no quarrel -QUESTION: That's right in the opinion. It's notsomething subtle. One of the driving forces for saying th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. they couldn't be - they weren't going to read into the actplaintiff status was that this Court thought that wouldmean they would be a person for defendant status.MR. KRENT: I agree that it's in the opinion,Your Honor, but this Court, in Georgia v. Evans, and thisCourt in Pfizer, made clear to cast the Cooper decision inthe light of the fact that it was a narrow decision,predicated not specifically on that point, Your Honor, butrather on the notion that there was an election ofremedies, the fact that the United States could sue toseize property under the act, the United States couldpursue criminal penalties under the act, and thatlinguistically, the United States doesn't seem to fit inwithin the terms, an organization or association existing under the law as the United States.QUESTION: Well, the - what, the PostalReorganization Act was ? Have any other antitrustsuits been brought against the Postal Service in that years?MR. KRENT: Not to my knowledge, Your Honor. However, the Department of Justice in and again in, made findings suggesting that the Postal Service waslikely to be subject to the antitrust laws.QUESTION: That's no longer the position of thedepartment, is it? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. MR. KRENT: That's correct. It was soon afterthe enactment of the statutes. And indeed, there areother entities, such as the Tennessee Valley Authority,which has been found to be a person under the antitrustacts, but I think it's - the fact that this is rising,this question arises under the Postal Services is nosurprise, because the Postal Service has a roving mandateto decide to go into the business of greeting cards incompetition to Hallmark, to go into the fact that it cansell bicycling gear, to go into the market of the packageindustry, to go into the market of calling cards andcompete against AT&T.There is no other Federal entity to my knowledgewhich has this kind of roving mandate to make money from Congress, and indeed, it has used this ability -QUESTION: Well, it's an -QUESTION: It didn't - excuse me - I didn't thinkit had a mandate to make money. I thought the statute hadordered it to break even.MR. KRENT: Well, it has a statute - it - it's -it's a rough balance. It's unclear whether it's supposedto make a little money or lose a little money.QUESTION: But it - but it's unlike most profit-making institutions that are primarily engaged in tryingto make as much money as they can. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. MR. KRENT: That is correct, Your Honor, but inthe non-postal activities, the only objective is to makemoney. Certainly for universal service there are otherobjectives limiting and channeling the actions of thePostal Service, but with respect to selling bicycling gearor selling greeting cards, the only objective the PostalService has is to make money, and it has tried to use thispower, and indeed, there were surpluses, as mentioned bycounsel for the Solicitor General, in several years. Sothe Postal Service can be successful at least at times,but other times, of course, especially after /, it hasseen hard times.QUESTION: But even - even when it is, I take itthe object of the money that it makes is essentially to break even, maybe break even and a little bit more, on -on the mail delivery operation, which the statute itselfrecites as being a sovereign responsibility of the UnitedStates.MR. KRENT: Well, I think that's -QUESTION: So, I mean, that's - that's a long wayfrom General Motors.MR. KRENT: I think it - it's - there is noshareholders, for instance, looking for a profit, but thegoal of the Postal Service in these other areas ofbusiness, whether it's the package business or the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. greeting card business, is to make money.QUESTION: Well, it is to make money, but it isto make money in order to subsidize a particular activity,and I don't think - maybe I'm missing something - but Idon't think there's an indication that there's a mandatethere to maximize profits to in - in effect subsidize therest of the Government.MR. KRENT: Not - not the rest of the Governmentat all, because there is a segregated fund. But it isthere to - to make sure that any kind of losses that thePostal Service may sustain in its monopoly business can beovercome by profits generated in the non-monopolybusiness.QUESTION: And that monopoly business is described in the statute as being the discharge of asovereign obligation of the United States, isn't it?MR. KRENT: Absolutely. The - the Congress hasbeen very clear that there is a monopoly business to be -to be pursued here, and the Postal Service is pursuingthat. But that's not what the Postal Service is onlyabout. The Postal Service is also constructed as abusiness, and that's what this Court has recognized inFranchise Tax and in Loeffler case, and according to thatbusiness principles, is pursuing other tasks as well. Indeed, Congress - th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. QUESTION: What is - what is the - what is theorganizational form of this business? It's not acorporation, is it?MR. KRENT: It's a corporation-like form, YourHonor, and indeed -QUESTION: Well, but it's not a separatecorporation.MR. KRENT: That's correct, Your Honor. I mean,the Postal Service has described itself as a corporation.QUESTION: Is it - is it a partnership?MR. KRENT: It's - it's a board of directors-type organization with the Board of Governors serving as atype of Board of Governors - as a board of directors - andthe Board of Governors, as mentioned earlier, chooses the head or the chief executive officer of, or the PostmasterGeneral, of the Postal Service itself.QUESTION: But the structure, I take it, isunlike anything that one would find in - in a - in aprivate profit-making organization.MR. KRENT: That's correct.QUESTION: It's not a corporation, not apartnership.MR. KRENT: That's correct, Your Honor.QUESTION: I mean, it is - has a distinctstructure, but I think that the Congress that launched the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. Postal Service in the business and suggested that thePostal Rate Commission, the APA, and the Federalacquisition regulations wouldn't apply, would not havewanted then the Postal Service to use any kind of monopolypowers to have a tying arrangement with an entity such as,you know, Emery Air Freight or Federal Express, itwouldn't wanted to have -QUESTION: Well, why isn't this the kind ofpolicy judgment that we ought to leave to Congress to makeexplicitly? The Post Office, as reorganized, has twoaspects to it, as you've pointed out effectively, but howit should relate to the Antitrust Act seems to be the kindof judgment that Congress should address expressly. Isn'tthat so?MR. KRENT: I think, Your Honor, that theCongress has already made that judgment by suggesting thatthe Postal Service have the right to be sue and be sued,suggesting the Postal Service -QUESTION: Well, I thought we had alreadydiscussed that. I mean, the mere fact that there's a sue-and-be-sued clause is not enough under the Meyer approachto answer the question. You have to -MR. KRENT: Sure.QUESTION: - take another step -MR. KRENT: Right. The - th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. QUESTION: - beyond that.MR. KRENT: Sure, Your Honor. The question iswhether or not the Postal Service fits within the term,person. We know under the antitrust laws, we know thatperson can be applied to public corporations, as thisCourt has held. We know that person can be applied tostates, as this Court has held. We know that person canbe applied to foreign governmental entities, as this Courthas held. So the only question is whether this person canalso apply to Federal governmental entities, and we thinkthat it's clear that some, but very few, governmentalentities would qualify under the term, person.QUESTION: But you - you - you concede thatbefore the Postal Reorganization Act, the answer to the question would be no?MR. KRENT: Absolutely.QUESTION: So you - you have to - I mean, you're- you're not writing on a blank slate. You - you have tofind enough in the Postal Reorganization Act to changethat answer from no to yes, and that's really the burden.MR. KRENT: I - I agree, Your Honor.QUESTION: Given that the Postal Service was notsubject to the antitrust laws before, something sofundamental happened in that it is now a person underthe antitrust law. That's - that's your - th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. MR. KRENT: I fully agree with that.QUESTION: - your burden.MR. KRENT: I full agree with that, and I think we candischarge that burden if you look at the fact that thePostal Service is financially independent, it'sadministratively independent, it doesn't have to complywith the pro-competitive measures and the Federalacquisitions regulations, it has a sue-and-be-sued clause.QUESTION: But its employees, are its employeessubject to the Taft-Hartley law, or - or - or are theylike - like Federal workers?MR. KRENT: They are the only employees in theentire government to my knowledge that must comply with the Taft-Hartley law, and indeed, Congress specified thatit must comply within the law, because it wanted them toact more like a business and not have this restrictures ofother organizations within the United States as they -following the fellow labor relations authority, YourHonor.QUESTION: So - so - would - would theiremployees be members of the American Federation ofGovernmental Employees or other unions?MR. KRENT: I believe it's the American PostalWorkers Union, Your Honor. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. QUESTION: Postal workers union?MR. KRENT: Yes. So it's a - it's a separate -they're separated again from the Government with respectto labor relations. And indeed, they are one of the fewgovernmental entities that have signified their ownoperations under www-dot - dot-com. All right, they havedecided not to become a governmental player.QUESTION: But of course, the Reorganization Actitself specified that they'd be subject to Taft-Hartley,did it not?MR. KRENT: That's correct. And that's part andparcel, I think -QUESTION: So why didn't it specify that theywould be subject to the Sherman Act?MR. KRENT: Because -QUESTION: You see, I - I don't think that helpsyou, I think it hurts you.MR. KRENT: I don't -QUESTION: It - it is a significant feature that- that the - their employees are subject to Taft-Hartley,but that - that is more than answered by the fact that itsays so in the Reorganization Act. Why doesn't it say soabout the - about the antitrust laws?MR. KRENT: Well, I think it's important to thinkabout what the Postal Reorganization Act does say. When th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. it waives immunity, it makes limitations. The limitationsare that the Postal Service must comply with thelimitations in the Federal Tort Claims Act, that it has adifferent - the same venue provisions as by the UnitedStates, and that it has some of the jurisdictionalqualities as the United States, though the - so thelimitations and ramifications of the waiver are grafted insection very clearly. There is no other limitation,and I think it's important to realize -QUESTION: Yeah, but there's one - one stickingpoint that - running through my mind. The fact that theyhad to waive the immunity in the sue-and-be-sued clausesuggest that they're a sovereign.MR. KRENT: We agree that they're part of government, Your Honor. There's never been any kind ofquestion about the fact that the Postal Service is part ofthe Government.QUESTION: And is a sovereign.MR. KRENT: And - yes, Your Honor. And it takes- takes part of the - in the - in the sense that it wouldhave immunity, but for the waiver, clearly becauseCongress created the entity, and therefore Congressdecides whether to waive the immunity.QUESTION: Of course, if you're right, they'resubject to criminal liability under the Sherman Act too. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. MR. KRENT: Well, so are states theoretically, aswell as cities. I don't think that would ever arise, butthat is at least a theoretical possibility and this Courthas averted to that in prior decisions as well. The samething is true, of course, for cities under -QUESTION: A criminal case with the United Statesagainst the United States Postal Service.MR. KRENT: Well, I don't think that's likely tohappen, Your Honor, but I think it's important that this -this waiver allows the Postal Service also to vindicateits own interests, right. But for this waiver, PostalService could not go in and sue for any kind of antitrustinjuries, and that's not clear.QUESTION: But Congress could have said the Postal Service is authorized to sue and omitted the be-sued clause. It could have done it that way -MR. KRENT: That -QUESTION: - in which there would have been nowaiver.MR. KRENT: That's correct, Your Honor. Thatwould have made this case go away. But Congress chose notto follow that path, and indeed, if one could think thatone launches a - an organization into the commercialmarketplace and takes away the constraints of the APA, theFAR, the Postal Rate Commission - th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. QUESTION: Well, to say launch into thecommercial marketplace, they're basically selling stampsand nobody else is selling stamps. What kind of alaunching is that?MR. KRENT: Well, I think it's now for themonopoly business, Your Honor, but the launching with -with respect to the package delivery business, thegreeting card business, the fact that they are sponsoringLance Armstrong's bicycling team, these are all the areasin which the Postal Service has decided to venture outsideof its mandate, and it's - the danger is allowing thePostal Service to extend its monopoly power into these newfields. QUESTION: Mr. Krent -QUESTION: But when it goes into all those fieldsanyway - we've made this point about times - it - itdoesn't set the prices it wants. It sets pricescontrolled by a commission under a mandate that says it'ssupposed to break even.MR. KRENT: No - no - if I understand your -QUESTION: Isn't that right?MR. KRENT: That's not right, Your Honor. Interms of all these different areas, the Postal RateCommission does not operate whatsoever.QUESTION: It has no - in greeting cards and so th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. forth?-MR. KRENT: No jurisdiction. The Postal ServiceQUESTION: So is it - it - and it's free? Inother words, it doesn't - it isn't - well, you - I thoughtyou answered Justice Souter by saying that they do have anobligation even there to break even overall?MR. KRENT: Oh, overall, Your Honor, but thePostal Rate Commission has no jurisdiction whatsoever onthe Postal Service's actions with respect to greetingcards, bicycling gear, and the package delivery business. And I think that points out the danger of the monopolypractices. One could easily see -QUESTION: So if in - in the greeting card business, they decided to go into an agreement with threeother companies, Hallmark and Smith's greeting cards, andthey were to fix their prices at $ a greeting card,which seems about right nowadays -(Laughter.)QUESTION: - the - the - then under thosecircumstances, there would be no remedy -MR. KRENT: That's correct, Your Honor.QUESTION: - for the consumer of the stores. There's no government agency anybody could appeal to?MR. KRENT: That's correct, Your Honor. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. QUESTION: All right. So that's -MR. KRENT: Absolutely none. And indeed, ifthere was a tying arrangement of trying to say, if youwant our postal services then you have to buy our greetingcards, to follow your example, no remedy whatsoever thereas well, so that all these kinds of fear of predatorypricing, tying arrangements, monopolistic prices, the -there's a danger -QUESTION: Well, but there - there wouldn't be aremedying as the Postal Service, but I assume you couldsue American Greetings and Hallmark and whoever else hadconspired with the Postal Service.MR. KRENT: You might, unless it was a tyingagreement, Your Honor. If it was just the universal, unilateral action of the Postal Service with a tyingarrangement, there would be no remedy.QUESTION: If it was unilateral action, they'dbe -QUESTION: We won't sell you any stamps unlessyou buy our greeting cards?MR. KRENT: You never know. One never knows.QUESTION: It might happen, I suppose.QUESTION: Mr. Krent, can we go back to Sea-Land, where I thought that the first point made in thatdecision was indeed as a result of the change in the APA th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. that Alaska Railroad could be sued for injunctive relief. The Court said, yeah, they could be sued like any person,not for damages, but for injunctive relief. And then itsaid, but this is the question of whether Congressauthorized them to be a defendant in an antitrust case isa totally discrete question, it has nothing to do with thewaiver of sovereign immunity.MR. KRENT: Well, indeed, that - that's right,Your Honor, and indeed, the difference in - in Sea-Land isthe fact that the Alaska Airlines never had a - never hadto argue that they were separate from the United States. Their argument was that the United States could be suedfor its proprietary activities under the Sherman Act. They didn't argue that they were a distinct entity, so they never said that - there was no - they agreed thatthere was no sue-and-be-sued clause, and so that wholeargument that we're making in this case was never evenraised in Sea-Land.QUESTION: Well, I'm - from the Court's point ofview, it - the Court made as a threshold determinationthat the railroad could be sued for equitable relief, soit could be sued. And then it says, but that doesn'tanswer the question, we have to determine whether there isa claim, any claim under the antitrust laws, and on thatthe Court relied on Cooper. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. MR. KRENT: That's correct, Your Honor, becauseof the Court's holding that the Alaska Airlines did notqualify under the term person under the antitrust laws. And it's our contention, because the Postal Service is notstructured anywhere like the Alaska Airlines, because it's- Alaska Airlines did not have a separate budget, theAlaska Airlines could not sue and be sued, the Alaskaairlines had to comply with the APA, unlike the PostalService, that the Postal Service is a person, whereas theAlaska Airlines and the SBA and the Department of Commerceand HUD would not be persons under the antitrust law. Soit's a very narrow argument predicated on the structure -QUESTION: Eleven people running this, nine of whom were appointed by the President of the United States,I take it that's your -MR. KRENT: I'm sorry -QUESTION: I take it that the directors areappointed by the President of United States, almost all ofthem.MR. KRENT: Except for the Postmaster and theDeputy Postmaster.QUESTION: All right. So nine out of the elevenare appointed. Are they confirmed by Congress?MR. KRENT: By the Senate, sure. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. QUESTION: Yes, all right. So - and they'rerepresented by the Solicitor General, and their licenseplates have government on them.MR. KRENT: Well, I've never seen their licenseplates, your Honor, but I'm -QUESTION: But, I mean, and - and they say thatthey're part of the Government, and or percent ofwhat they do is not what private industry does at all andyou have remedies against all of it except - under otherstatutes or powers of review within the Government, exceptfor a small portion, I take it it is a small portion, thisgreeting card business.MR. KRENT: Well, we're focusing on the percent we agree -QUESTION: All right, then, so you're - in otherwords, I thought you were selling them sacks, you wantedto sell them burlap sacks.MR. KRENT: Well, they're not burlap, but yes,they are -QUESTION: Well, whatever they are -MR. KRENT: - they are sacks.QUESTION: - they're some kind of sack.MR. KRENT: Sure.QUESTION: Aren't they used for mail?MR. KRENT: They are used for international mail, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. for third-class mail.QUESTION: All right, so - and they maketreaties, by the way, too. I don't know that GeneralMotors now can make a treaty.MR. KRENT: I agree with you, Your Honor.QUESTION: All right, so - so it wouldn't helpyou if we said that in the vast bulk of their businesswhere they have all of these characteristics I justmentioned -MR. KRENT: Well, I think it would, Your Honor.QUESTION: - that it - it would help you? How?MR. KRENT: I think it would because I think theargument here -QUESTION: They're selling the sacks for the greeting cards too?MR. KRENT: I think that what - actually thatthey probably do, but the - the - the gravamen here isthat there was a conspiracy to monopolize the mail sackbusiness, as well as the -QUESTION: Of course there was. Don't they havea right to monopolize the mail sack business or not? Isn'tthere some -MR. KRENT: No.QUESTION: They don't?MR. KRENT: We don't believe that's part of the - th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. the monopoly -QUESTION: Statute. Then why don't you go to thecommissions that run them and tell them they can't do it?MR. KRENT: Well, there - there is a procurementclaim pending, Your Honor, but the Postal Rate Commissionwould not have jurisdiction over the - the mail sackpurchase at all, Your Honor. And so the - the fear isthat these kind of - of trade practices that are anti-competitive can go on without any kind of directrestraint. Certainly there is an overlap betweenprocurement and antitrust, but it's not congruent in thatsense.I think it's helpful to think about whatCongress intended by waiving the Postal Service's immunity in the sue-and-be-sued clause. Clearly it has to apply tosomething. There was some point in waiving the immunityof the Postal Service. We know, for instance, at least Ithink that the Government has conceded, that the PostalService is now subject to torts at state law torts. The -Franchise Tax suggested that the Government -QUESTION: Well, I - I thought conceded they weresubject to Federal Tort Claims Act?MR. KRENT: But the waiver was for torts and thenthe limitation in the waiver said that the procedures ofthe Federal Tort Claims Act must be applied, but clearly th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. there's a waiver -QUESTION: Even though it's a state court actionagainst the Post Office?MR. KRENT: That's correct, just as it would bein any - for other Federal entity, but, for instance, the-QUESTION: So the - the Post Office can be suedin state court then for a - for a state tort?MR. KRENT: Well, it could be, except for thefact that the - the limitations of the Federal Tort ClaimsAct apply by virtue of .QUESTION: Well, that's - that what I thought Iasked you a minute ago -MR. KRENT: Well then -QUESTION: - and you said something different.MR. KRENT: Well, I'm sorry if I misunderstoodyour question, Your Honor, but the - the argument then isthat - that in other kinds of cases, such as the state lawthat said person in the Franchise Task - Tax - whetherthat - the question is whether that applies to the PostalService as well, and of course in this Court, upheld thedetermination that the Postal Service would comply underthe term person under the state law as well.So how far does person apply? Contract law,tort law, what about the Lanham Act, the trademark case? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. Before the recent amendments to the Lanham Act that werementioned recently, the - all the statute said was that itwas applied to persons, and three courts of appealssuggested that even though person could not apply to theUnited States, person could apply to the Postal Service,by virtue of its distinct status.QUESTION: But I thought the Lanham Act,definition written right into the Lanham Act was that aperson within the meaning of that act is an organizationcapable of suing and being sued.MR. KRENT: Yes, but courtshad said that the United States, previous to that, did notfall within the term person, because the person doesn'trefer to governmental entities at all. So there the courtshad distinguished -QUESTION: It said it with respect to theantitrust law in Cooper, but the Lanham Act defined persondifferently.MR. KRENT: But just slightly, Your Honor. Theonly difference was the capable-of-being-sued part. TheUnited States is also capable of being sued.QUESTION: But I - I thought that was what wascritical, that any organization capable of suing and beingsued was within the Lanham Act.MR. KRENT: But the United States, Your Honor,can also be sued and is capable of suing itself, so I'm th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. not sure that that distinguishes it, and indeed, underthat language, courts had held the United States was notliable, and yet the Postal Service had registeredtrademarks in its own name, the Postal Service hadregistered copyrights in its own name, even though theUnited States cannot hold copyrights, and there is anexception -QUESTION: But isn't there a good reason forthat?MR. KRENT: Well, I think there is a good reason.QUESTION: To stop people from engaging indesigned piracy in stamps?MR. KRENT: And indeed, if that were all that thePostal Service had filed for, I would be - I would be in total agreement with Your Honor. But the Postal Servicehad filed for , at least , I believe, copyrights,books, training manuals, things that have nothing to dowith the protection for the legitimacy of - of stamps.So again, the Postal Office has defined itselfthrough its actions as a person in comparable commercialtort situations. It's only logical that if a PostalService in the commercial world, saying that it's not likethe United States for copyrights, for trademarks, thenit's not like United States with respect to antitrust. When Congress formed the Postal Service, Your th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. Honors, and it took away the APA, the Postal RateCommission for these non-monopoly actions, as well as theFederal acquisition regulations, certainly there was aquid pro quo.If you streamline the operations of the PostalService, launch it into business, you would expect theprivate commercial torts in antitrust laws to be therestraint to make sure that the monopoly is not extendedto the other kind of operations. And so I think thatCongress' intent is quite clear that the Postal Service isunique, does not partake of the United States, andtherefore, just as the Postal Service can be sued in tortlaw and under the Lanham Act, be it the old Lanham Act,the new Lanham Act, it can be sued under the antitrust laws as well. The burden, therefore, on the Solicitor Generalto explain why Congress would have wanted the PostalService's monopoly to be extended, and why Congress wouldhave wanted the Postal Service to be sue - to be able tobe sued and to sue themselves without really being able totake advantage of the opportunity to sue in their own nameunder the antitrust laws or under trademark and copyrightlaw, et cetera, and why they shouldn't be sued as well. If there are no further questions, thank you.QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. Krent. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. Mr. Kneedler, you have six minutes remaining.REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF EDWIN S. KNEEDLERON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERMR. KNEEDLER: Several points, Mr. Chief Justice. In addition to the other statutes that I've mentioned withrespect to the right to sue, there are a number of otherrespects in which Congress has treated the Postal Serviceas a Federal entity. It's subject to their Freedom ofInformation Act, the Privacy Act, the Inspector GeneralAct, it's subject to the Federal sector OSHA regulations,and as this Court pointed out in the Loeffler decision,it's subject to the Federal sector Title VII prohibitions,not - it's not treated as a private corporation forpurposes of Title VII.It is subject to the National Labor RelationsAct, but this act was passed in before the Federalsector labor - labor management provisions came in in theCivil Service Reform Act, and as you pointed out, JusticeScalia, that's an express provision subjecting the PostalService to something that otherwise applies to privateentities, but in - but in virtually every other respect,Congress has specified that it would be subject to Federallaw.And in section of the act, with respect tojudicial proceedings, Congress specified that the Postal th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. Service would be - would be treated just like the UnitedStates, not just with respect to Tort Claims Act, butvenue, removal jurisdiction, and representation by theAttorney General.But the - the most fundamental point, however,to be made is that this is not a situation in whichCongress has created a new entity and launched, in thatsense, that entity into a private commercial world. Here,Congress has carried forward the nation's tradition oftreating postal services as sovereign functions performed by the Government of the United States. These are - theseare - to the extent they're commercial functions and - andthey are unusual commercial functions, the Constitutiontreats them as - as something of particular interest to the United States Government.I should point out that with respect to thepostal services, all postal services are subject to thejurisdiction of the Postal Rate Commission, not just thosethat are subject to monopoly, that - that the PostalService has monopoly control over, Justice Breyer. Soeven in those areas in which the Postal Service is subjectto competition in - in parcel and express mail, forexample, the Postal Service - the Postal Rate Commission -does have regulatory jurisdiction over those -QUESTION: So greeting cards? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. MR. KNEEDLER: It does not over greeting cards,but the non-postal functions of the Postal Serviceconstitute less than percent of the revenues of the - ofthe Postal Service. We're talking about a very minoraspect of the Postal Service's operations, and theaffirmative authorization for the Postal Service to engagein that in section () of the act is cast in the sameterms as the Postal Service's authorization to engage inall the other functions and they're really incidental.QUESTION: But the fact that it's only - the factthat it's only percent means they're only liable underthe antitrust laws for percent of their business.MR. KNEEDLER: No, I think - I think it showsthat - that - that the predominant character of the Postal Service is as it always has been, and these - these otherservices are really in most ways incidental to - to postalservices like greeting cards and - and that sort of thing.QUESTION: But they're the services that theywant to bring suits under. That's -MR. KNEEDLER: This - this is - this is not -this is not that. This case is a - is an ordinaryprocurement dispute that - all Federal agencies engage inprocurement and - and -QUESTION: That's the curious thing about thissuit. It actually represents a portion of the monopoly th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. business, of using the monopoly to - to monopolizeprocurement.MR. KNEEDLER: And in procurement, and inprocurement in particular, Congress has treated the PostalService like all other - all other Federal agencies underthe Contract Disputes Act, particularly with respect tothe disputes at issue here. So in the end we believethat, as Justice O'Connor said, this is essentially apolicy choice for Congress. If - if in the currentclimate the Postal Service is to be subject to theantitrust laws, notwithstanding the fact that it remains agovernmental entity, that is a - that is a choice thatCongress should make, whether these governmentalactivities should be regulated by treble damage actions, which was extremely unusual under - under Federalstatutes. And where Congress has chosen to subject theUnited States to liability under statutes such as this,but not nearly as free-ranging in the patent laws, etcetera, it has done so expressly, and we think yearsafter the passage of the Postal Reorganization Act, thatif the - if the Postal Service is now to be subject to theantitrust laws, that is something for Congress to do andnot for the courts to try to divine from complete silencein the Postal Reorganization Act or its legislative th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. history on that point.If there are no further questions.QUESTION: Do they really sell biking gear? Theydon't sell biking gear. Do they sell biking gear?MR. KNEEDLER: I - I'm not sure whether they - I- I don't know whether they sell biking gear. The factthat they - the fact that they use the Postal Service teamin - in - in promoting Postal Service products, I think,doesn't say anything about whether they're subject -QUESTION: They might deliver some mail onbicycles, I mean -(Laughter.)MR. KNEEDLER: It's entirely possible.CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: Thank you, Mr. Kneedler. The case is submitted.(Whereupon, at : a.m., the case in theabove-entitled matter was submitted.) th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. 