 IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES---------------------------XJENNIFER GRATZ and PATRICK HAMACHER Petitioners v. LEE BOLLINGER, et al., Respondents. :::: ::---------------------------XNO. -Washington, D.C.Tuesday, April , The above-entitled matter came on for oralargument before the Supreme Court of the United Statesat : a.m.APPEARANCES:MR. KIRK O. KOLBO, ESQ., Minneapolis, Minnesota; onbehalf of the Petitioners.GENERAL THEODORE B. OLSON, ESQ., Solicitor General,Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; as amicuscuriae, supporting the Petitioners.JOHN PAYTON, ESQ., Washington, D.C., onbehalf of the Respondents. C O N T E N T SORAL ARGUMENT OF KIRK O. KOLBO, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioners GENERAL THEODORE B. OLSON, ESQ.As amicus curiae, supporting the Petitioners JOHN PAYTON, ESQ.On behalf of the Respondents REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OFKIRK O. KOLBO, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioners PAGE P R O C E E D I N G S(: a.m.)CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: We'll hear argumentnext in No. -, Jennifer Gratz and Patrick Hamacher v.Lee Bollinger.Mr. Kolbo.ORAL ARGUMENT OF KIRK O. KOLBOON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERMR. KOLBO: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it pleasethe Court: Jennifer Gratz and Patrick Hamacher were deniedadmission to the University of Michigan's flagshipundergraduate institution, the College of Literature andthe Science and the Arts under an admissions-- under admissions policies that facially and flagrantlydiscriminated on the basis of race.The history of their case and of theUniversity's defense of its discriminatory admissionspolicies is a powerful argument about the perils ofentrusting to the discretionary judgments of educators theprotection of the Constitution's guarantee of equality toall individuals.For nearly years, the University vigorouslydefended in the district court and the court of appeals the admissions systems that were in place when petitionersGratz and Hamacher applied. These systems featuredseparate admissions guidelines for different races,protected or reserved seats in the class for selectminorities, that is blacks, Hispanics and NativeAmericans, racially-segregated wait lists, and a policy ofnever automatically rejecting students from theirpreferred -- from the preferred minority groups whiledoing so for others.QUESTION: Mr. -- Mr. Kolbo, as a preliminarymatter, would you address the question of whether thenamed plaintiff Patrick Hamacher has standing in thiscase. He was denied admission, I think, in ?MR. KOLBO: Correct, Your Honor.QUESTION: And he claimed that he intended to apply to transfer to the University of Michigan, fromwherever he was going to school, and yet the transferadmissions policy, I guess isn't before us.MR. KOLBO: The transfer admissions policyitself is not before you -- the Court, Your Honor.QUESTION: NoMR. KOLBO: -- but the policy is essentially thesame with respect to the consideration of race and theCourt did -- we did certify a class in this case, withrespect to Mr. Hamacher, and I believe it was December of . We moved for class certification and the districtcourt granted that certification. And as a result ofthat, of course, anything with respect -- anything that'shappened with respect to Mr. Hamacher subsequent to thattime it seems to us is not irrelevant to the considerationof standing.QUESTION: Are you sure that the transfer policyis the same as the admissions policy for new freshmen?MR. KOLBO: Well, it's not exactly the --QUESTION: We didn't find any such finding. There was some little material in the record that gave mea different thought about it.MR. KOLBO: The transfer policy considers race,Your Honor.QUESTION: I know it considered race, but not in precisely the same way as this --MR. KOLBO: Not in precisely the same way, andthe Court -- there -- there is nothing -- it may be,perhaps included in parts of the appendix materials, butthe district court did not address the issue of thetransfer policy in it -- in Mr. Hamacher's potential fortransferring under the policy.QUESTION: Well, there's nothing, I take it --if Mr. Hamacher prevails on the transfer -- there isnothing in his prevailing that would hurt any other class member.MR. KOLBO: Nothing at all, Mr. Chief Justice.QUESTION: It's not a -- okay.MR. KOLBO: No. If Mr. Hamacher prevails, thenthe rights of many thousands of others will have beenvindicated and they will be able to compete under a non-discriminatory system.QUESTION: Of course that would be true even ifhe doesn't have standing.(Laughter.) MR. KOLBO: That's true. Well, Your Honor theywould not be able to compete under a non-discriminatorysystem unless this particular system is struck down.QUESTION: I understand if it's struck down, butthat -- that begs the question of whether the named plaintiff has standing to represent a class of people whowant to get into the freshman class. He wants to get inas a transferring student. I mean, it -- maybe there'sstanding, but the mere fact that if he wins everybody willbenefit certainly doesn't speak to the question whether hehas standing.MR. KOLBO: No, Your Honor, but we -- we dobelieve that because the -- the transfer policy and theoriginal admissions policy are fundamentally the same inthe respect that they both consider race in the admissions process in a way that is discriminatory and we believethat's --QUESTION: And therefore if you're right thatany consideration of a race is enough to condemn theprogram, then he would have standing, but if it -- if itrequires analysis of the particular components of thepolicy, then we ought to know whether the transfer policyis the same as the original policy.MR. KOLBO: That would be true, Your Honor, ifthe case were decided strictly on the issue of narrowtailoring, but my understanding is that the Universityconsiders race for a purpose to achieve a diversity thatwe believe is not compelling, and if that is struck downas a rationale, then the law would be same with respect tothe transfer policy as with respect to the original admissions policy, Your Honor.QUESTION: Oh, he has standing to challenge. That's -- that seems clear, but the -- depending on therationale that the court adopts if it finds -- if it findsthe program unacceptable, he may not be entitled torelief.MR. KOLBO: He would be -- it seems to me,perhaps, Your Honor, entitled for relief for damages. He's -- he's not at this point seeking to be admitted tothe University. He's graduated with the passage of time, it's been five-plus years since this suit was filed, Mr. Hamacher has attended and graduated elsewhere. Itseems to me he would be entitled to damages.QUESTION: And the Court agreed with him as faras the program that was in place when he applied. TheCourt, I thought, held that program unconstitutional.MR. KOLBO: It did, Your Honor.QUESTION: And -- but upheld the program thatcame into being after his application, and he hasn'treapplied under the new -- but he -- but there was a classcertified, so I suppose you could substitute anotherplaintiff, someone who is applying under the currentsystem.MR. KOLBO: Well -- well, our position, YourHonor, is that because the class was certified with respect to Mr. Hamacher, that that's sufficient; that ifthe -- if the system is found unconstitutional, he is anadequate class representative. Sure. Certainly.One of the critical things that is demonstratedin this case is how easy it is for one system to bedisguised as another. What has happened in this case isthat for five years again, the University defended thesystem with its facially separate admission guidelines,with its reserved seats, and then in -- two years intothis case, in fact, was still using some of these particular forms in its admissions policy. It is anindication, I think, of how difficult it is to concludethat what we have here is a system that, for example,comports with what Justice Powell indicated he was -- heapproved of in the -- in the Bakke case.What we have here is a system that was -- is notnarrowly tailored to achieve any governmental interest,any compelling governmental interest.I would like, if I may, to return to the issueof diversity and the diversity issue as a -- as acompelling state interest. The fundamental problem withthe diversity rationale is that it depends upon thestandardless discretion of educators.It is a discretion that would be exercised in anumber of different respects. And we need to be clear about this. The University and its amicus have all madeit clear that in their judgment they ought to be entitledto use race as much as necessary in their educationaldiscretion.If that is the rule that we end up accepting,then universities are free in their discretion to choosewhich races are discriminated against, which are favored. We can have one institution that discriminates against onegroup of individuals, and another against another. We canhave with the -- with shifting fashions and -- and preferences and time, the preferences for the races canshift. An example of that is found in comparing the factsof this case to the Bakke case, wherein Bakke, AsianAmericans were included in the preference, and under theUniversity of Michigan's systems, they are excluded.The -- the exercise of discretion will extend towho's identified in a particular race.It will be for educators to decide whethersomeone of a mixed race is someone that is entitled to apreference.You can have anomalous situation of theUniversity's guidelines for example where someone who isboth half-white and half-black --QUESTION: How -- how does the University ofMichigan decide those things? Do they -- is it just a self-reporting type of system on the application?MR. KOLBO: That's correct, Mr. Chief Justice,it's a matter essentially of self-identification. So ifsomeone of mixed race who is white and black identifieshimself as white, then as far as the University isconcerned, they don't bring the diversity that they'relooking for. If that person identifies himself as black,then merely from that identification, they have fallenwithin the diversity that the University seeks.QUESTION: And -- and the reason that these -- QUESTION: One thing I don't quite understandwhat difference does it make to your client whetherthey're three or four races or five or six races as longas she's not one of them?MR. KOLBO: Well, it seems to me, Your Honor,it -- the problem --QUESTION: She's equally being discriminatedagainst as a Caucasian, no matter how many other races arepreferred. MR. KOLBO: That's true, Your Honor. I -- Iraised the point because it -- it indicates howstandardless this interest is. It is not defined withrespect to any constitutional principle like, for example,an interest based on remedying discrimination. It isentirely discretionary with the University.QUESTION: So is it entirely discretionary whenyou read a set of exam books, you know, it's highlysubjective, which is a little better than its --Often I'd make a mistake as a professor, so --so the fact that there aren't written-down standards is --is -- I'm -- I'm not sure of the Constitutional relevanceof that when what you're trying to do is something lawyersdon't normally do, which is to select among peopleindividually considered which one is better for thisparticular slot. Businesspeople do that, lawyers don't except when they're hiring.(Laughter.)QUESTION: But -- but I don't -- if you said toa businessperson, this doesn't have standards, such athing, I think they might laugh and say my job andexperience is to select who's better for this slot, so --so I'm not sure of the constitutional relevance of whatyou say, which seems to me to me to grow out of the natureof the problem.MR. KOLBO: Well, again, Justice Breyer, theconstitutional relevance derives from the fact that we'retalking about a constitutional right here, the use ofrace, which is not the same thing as --QUESTION: Yes, yes, but I mean, as JusticeStevens just said, the constitutional problem consists of the injury to your client and that injury is the sameirrespective of the precise nature of the standards on theother side. And -- and what I'm sort of struggling forhere is I see your point, if you say you cannot use raceat all, period. No matter what. That's a -- that's aclear position, which I think is one of your positions. But once you depart from that, now I'm -- I'm interestedin the detail. At that point I'm not quite sure therelevance of what you're saying.MR. KOLBO: Well, Your Honor, what I'm suggesting is the Court itself has made clear that for aninterest to be compelling, one of the considerations thatthe Court must look at is whether there are standards --independent, ascertainable standards apart from thediscretion exercised by, say, an employer to determinewhether the interest is one that's compelling and one thatthe Court can oversee. That interest, that standard --that standard exists, for example, when we have aninterest in remedying identified discrimination. TheCourt has made it clear that what with can be done in thatcase is you can measure the extent to which there has beenpast discrimination, that's not a matter of discretion forthe employer to decide, and once you've measured theextent of that discrimination, you can tailor your remedyto that interest.QUESTION: Mr. Kolbo, because you mentioned theemployer and the employer's judgment, I gathered from yourbrief that this case is not simply about publicuniversities. Employment -- because you bring up andyou bring up Title VI -- under Title VI, this case is asmuch about Harvard as it is about Michigan, isn't thattrue?MR. KOLBO: The same standard would apply, Justice Ginsburg, that's correct.QUESTION: And it -- and in the private sector, employment in the private sector, there's . So there,too. So this case is much larger than private --public -- public universities. It's all colleges anduniversities, and it's the entire realm of employment ifyou're right.MR. KOLBO: Well, Your Honor, I want to be clearabout what it is that we're arguing for here today. Weare not suggesting an absolute rule forbidding any use ofrace under any circumstances. What we are arguing is thatthe interest asserted here by the University, thisamorphous, ill-defined, unlimited interest in diversity isnot a compelling interest. Nothing we argue today andnothing we seek to do today would undo the Court'sprecedents that have recognized if some --QUESTION: As far as --QUESTION: But I think you are arguing thatanything except remedies for past discrimination isimpermissible.MR. KOLBO: Your Honor, that is not a conclusionthat we need to follow from this Court's decision.QUESTION: No, I -- I think that's yourposition, is it not? That the only permissible use ofrace is as a remedy for past discrimination?MR. KOLBO: I would not go that far, JusticeStevens, there may be other reasons. I think they would have to be extraordinary and rare, perhaps, rising to thelevel of life or limb. We do know that the Court hasrecognized past identified discrimination.QUESTION: What about Weber, to take a specificcase? Employment setting, the employer says I don't wantto confess to having been a past discriminator, but I'mwilling to engage in this voluntary affirmative action. Itake it that that would be impermissible if we adopt yourview?MR. KOLBO: Weber, as I understand it, is aTitle VII case, Your Honor and it's not implicated by thisdecision.QUESTION: But there's , then -- then theperson who was attacking it on grounds that it's raciallydiscriminatory just says my lawsuit is under , which it could be as well as Title VII and then what is theresult?MR. KOLBO: Well, it seems to me, Your Honor,that -- if the Court could resolve the issue consistentwith Title VII, which has remedial --QUESTION: If the suit is brought under ,the Court can decide what the plaintiff's complaint shouldbe?MR. KOLBO: No, no, if this Court decides thiscase under section , the only interest asserted here at least is an interest in diversity that we are asking tostrike down. It may be that there are some otherinterests, including a remedial one, that would bejustified under some other statute. But the issue is notpresented.QUESTION: But there was no -- this is avoluntary affirmative action, no admission of priordiscrimination. I gather if someone brought a suit,to stop that, your theory is that that person wouldprevail?MR. KOLBO: The use of race to exceed non-remedial objectives, I think would have problems, YourHonor.QUESTION: Congress wanted race to be consideredby private institutions such as Harvard and what-not, if there's a problem with , or any of the other Federalstatutes, they can simply amend it. What the -- the onlything that the Constitution applies to is State action.MR. KOLBO: Yes, that's correct, Justice Scalia.QUESTION: And all the rest is simply Congress'decision to impose a similar restriction upon privateactors, which decision it can change if it wishes.MR. KOLBO: That's my understanding, Your Honor.QUESTION: Or suppose you say you used the wordextraordinary as compelling justification, and the other side says, yes, extraordinary, we're million people,we have large racial diversity within the country, theworld is even more diverse, and we think from the point ofview of business, the Armed Forces, law, et cetera, thatthis is an extraordinary need to have diversity amongelites throughout the country. That without it, thecountry will be much worse off. That's what we're beingtold.In fact, the country might not function well atall. And we have to train those people. We have to. Allright, now, how can you say, or can you say, that isn'textraordinary? That isn't a question of life or limb forthe country? It isn't really that necessary, when so manypeople are telling us the contrary?MR. KOLBO: Your Honor, because there are important constitutional rights at stake. And thoserights are the right to equal protection. And a meresocial benefit that is having more minorities inparticular occupations or the schools simply doesn't riseto the level of compelling interest.It simply is not -- it doesn't remedy aconstitutional value, like --QUESTION: So if the University president or thedean told you just what Justice Breyer said, you wouldtell them there's -- and that we have underrepresentation of minorities, you would tell them there's nothing you cando about it?MR. KOLBO: I would say, Your Honor, that racialpreferences are not the answer. If there are problemsagain in not getting a sufficient number of -- ifminorities are not competing at the same level as otherracial groups then we should take steps to solve thatproblem. But racial preferences, because they injure therights of innocent people, because it's a prohibitioncontained in our Constitution, simply aren't permissibleto remedy that problem. If I may reserve the remainder ofmy time, Mr. Chief Justice. QUESTION: Very well, Mr. Kolbo.General Olson, we'll hear from you. ORAL ARGUMENT OF THEODORE B. OLSON ON BEHALF OF THE UNITED STATES AS AMICUS CURIAESUPPORTING THE PETITIONERSGENERAL OLSON: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court:The University of Michigan admissions programhas created a separate path and a separate door forpreferred minorities. For those groups, if they meetbasic qualifications, their path is always clear and theirdoor is always open.Non-preferred racial groups face rigorous competition to get through the other door.The University admits that race is such anoverarching factor in its admissions process thateventually every qualified underrepresented minorityapplicant will be admitted. The point bonus, which isone full grade point, nearly twice the benefit of aperfect SAT score, and six times better than anoutstanding essay, the -- that bonus is actuallyunnecessary with the way the plan actually works, becauseevery qualified candidate who gets the bonus gets into theUniversity. It might just as well be an admissionsticket.The University acknowledges that its pre-admissions program used separate grids, separatequalifications, separate standards and protected seats. They acknowledge that this system was -- which was heldunconstitutional and was not challenged, yet theystipulated that the only changes that they made from thatsystem affected only the mechanics, not the substance ofhow race and ethnicity were considered in the admissionsprocess.QUESTION: First the changes were sufficient toconvince the district judge that it was on the other sideof the constitutional line?GENERAL OLSON: Notwithstanding the fact that the -- the University -- we -- we respectfully disagreewith that conclusion, because the -- the University itselfadmitted that it only changed the mechanics. It intendedto produce the same --QUESTION: Yes, but isn't -- isn't -- I mean,mechanics is another word for tailoring. And they'resaying we have tailored it differently. Our objectivesare the same. We may be reaching those objectives inroughly the -- the same proportions, but the argument isan argument about tailoring and we've changed thetailoring. GENERAL OLSON: We submit Justice Souter, thatthe changes which they referred to as mechanics werecosmetics, that ultimately, the system was intended to,and they acknowledge, to produce the same outcome as the prior system.QUESTION: Yes. The stipulation is that it didnot change the substance of how race and ethnicity wereconsidered.GENERAL OLSON: Correct, Justice Kennedy. Andwhat the Court only needs to look at the operation of thesystem. That point bonus means that if you pass theminimum qualification standards at the University ofMichigan, you were admitted.Everyone else just like in the Davis program, had to compete -- people that were not in the preferredraces, who were not on the preferred class had to competewith one another.QUESTION: It was the same points given --socioeconomic status also had points?GENERAL OLSON: Yes, Justice Ginsburg.QUESTION: And atlethics, too, I think?GENERAL OLSON: Yes, and you couldn't get both. But if you had -- whether -- whatever your background,whether you were an athlete or not, you got the pointssolely because of your race. There were other systems,that the Constitution doesn't implicate.QUESTION: I thought you got only one ?GENERAL OLSON: That's correct.QUESTION: So if you were an athlete you wouldn't get race?GENERAL OLSON: That's correct. But if you --irrespective of those other factors, if you didn't get the-- the point bonus for being an athlete or -- forsocioeconomic conditions, the only thing that was requiredwas to be a member of the preferred race. Like the otherprogram that we're hearing today, the same State, thestate Board of Regents, this plan violates every standardthat this Court has set for the examination of racialpreferences. It is a thinly disguised quota because there'sonly one path, a segment -- Justice O'Connor put it thisway in Croson -- a segment of the class reservedexclusively for certain minority groups. It isn't tied toa particular number. It's a segment of the class reservedon the basis of race.It is -- it is based upon the stigmatizingnotion that if you are a certain race, you think a certainway or if you're a certain race, you have certainexperience that's are common.QUESTION: What do you say to the argument thatnumber one, it's not stigmatizing, because the box studycertainly didn't show that it was, and number two, theobjective is not to show that there is a correlationbetween race and one point of view. The objective is to show students what the correlation or no correlation isbetween races and points of view. And it seems to me thatthe Michigan plan is equally consistent with the latterinterpretation as with the former.GENERAL OLSON: What we're saying is that if youassume that because you are white or you are red or youare brown or you are black, you must have certainexperiences and you must have certain viewpoints.QUESTION: The argument is that you need to haveenough of them to demonstrate that the point of view does not always fit just one person.GENERAL OLSON: Well, but Justice Stevens --QUESTION: And that was a finding I think?GENERAL OLSON: -- that's a self-contradictoryrationale that they've come up with. They've said firstof all you have these characteristics because you're blackbut we must admit enough of you into the class to prove tothe other students that -- that black isn't the reasonyou're --QUESTION: No that is not -- the argument isbasically that, look, people who have grown up in Americaand are black, regardless of race, no, not regardless ofrace, regardless of socioeconomic background haveprobably, though not certainly, shared the experience ofbeing subject to certain stereotypical reactions from people throughout their lives.Now, that may have led them to react one way, oranother way or not react at all.And indeed many of the students in our classwill have stereotypical reactions. And it's good for themas well as for everyone else to rid themselves of thosereactions. And we want people in this school of all kindswho are black, because that will be helpful education.Now, that's their argument, I think, in thatrespect, not the argument that all black people are poor, not the argument that all black people have beendiscriminated against, not the argument that all blackpeople share a point of view. As I read it, that's their argument. And soyou're reply to that argument is what?GENERAL OLSON: Well, their argument, A, takesseveral forms, at one point it's that, at one point, it'sthe need to get more people elite -- of differentbackgrounds, it's a -- but what this Court has said thatracial preferences, racial stereotyping, which it is, isstigmatizing, it's divisive, it's damaging to the fabricof society, it's damaging to the goal ultimately toeliminate the problems that racial discrimination andracial differences have created.QUESTION: General Olson -- we're part of a world, and this problem is a global problem. Othercountries operating under the same equality norm haveconfronted it. Our neighbor to the north, Canada, has,the European Union, South Africa, and they have allapproved this kind of, they call it positivediscrimination. Do we -- they have rejected what yourecited as the ills that follow from this. Should we shutthat from our view at all or should we consider whatjudges in other places have said on this subject?GENERAL OLSON: I submit, Justice Ginsburg that none of those countries has our history, none of thosecountries has the Fourteenth Amendment, none of thosehistories has the history of the statements by this Courtwhich has examined the question over and over again thatthe ultimate damage that is done by racial preferences issuch that if there ever is a situation in which suchfactors must be used that they must be -- race neutralmeans must be used to accomplish those objective, narrowtailoring must be applied, and this -- this -- theseprograms fail all of those tests.QUESTION: General Olson, do you know whetherany of those countries that Justice Ginsburg referred tothat have gone down the road of racial preferences, racialentitlements, have ever gotten rid of racial preferencesor racial entitlements?GENERAL OLSON: There --QUESTION: Has it been the road to ultimately acolor blind society or has it been the road to a societythat has percentage entitlements for the various races?GENERAL OLSON: Sadly, I believe that that iscorrect, Justice Scalia, and let me conclude by sayingthat the Michigan Law School and the University ofMichigan ultimately must make a choice. It may maintainits elitist, as it refers to it, selection process withoutregard to race, or it may achieve the racial diversity it seeks with race neutral compromises in its admissionstandards.But the one thing that it may not do iscompromise its admission standards or change its admissionrequirements for one race and not another.That is forbidden by the Equal Protection Clauseof the Constitution.QUESTION: Is it also forbidden for the UnitedStates military academy?GENERAL OLSON: It may well be Justice Stevens. We're not defending the specifics of those programs, butwe have not examined them individually. We -- we believethat the ultimate solution to the problem that race hascreated -- that difference in race has created in thiscountry has got to be according to what this Court has said, the most neutral race -- neutral means possible.QUESTION: Thank you General Olson.Mr. Payton, we'll hear from you.ORAL ARGUMENT OF JOHN PAYTONON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTSMR. PAYTON: Mr. Chief Justice and, may itplease the Court: I think I want to spend just a few minutesbriefly setting the record straight on why it is theeducational judgment of the University of Michigan that the educational benefits that come from a racially andethnically diverse student body are crucial for all of ourstudents and why those benefits do not depend in any wayon the assumption that, for example, all African Americansthink alike.LS&A, our premiere undergraduate institution, isan undergraduate college, most of its entering studentscome in as -year-olds, about two-thirds come fromMichigan, and about half from Detroit or the greaterDetroit area. Michigan, I think as everyone knows is avery segregated State.QUESTION: Half of the ones who come fromMichigan come from Detroit?MR. PAYTON: Yes. Half of our students comefrom -- yes.Michigan is a very segregated State. Detroit isoverwhelmingly black. Its suburbs and the rest of thestate are overwhelmingly white. While Michigan is extremein this regard, it's not that extreme from the rest of thecountry. The University's entering students come fromthese settings and have rarely had experiences across racial or ethnic lines. That's true for our whitestudents. It's true for our minority students.They've not lived together. They've not playedtogether. They've certainly not gone to school together. The result is often that these students come tocollege not knowing about individuals of different racesand ethnicities. And often not even being aware of thefull extent of their lack of knowledge. This gap allowsstereotypes to come into existence.Ann Arbor is a residential campus, just aboutevery single entering student lives on campus in a dorm. On campus, these -year olds interact with students verydifferent from themselves in all sorts of ways, not justrace, not just ethnicity, but in all sorts of ways. Students, I think as we know, learn a tremendous amountfrom each other.Their education is much more than the classroom. It's in the dorm, it's in the dining halls, it's in thecoffee houses. It's in the daytime, it's in the nighttime. It's all the time.Here's how critical mass works in thesecircumstances. If there are too few African-American students, to take that same example, there's a risk thatthose students will feel that they have to represent theirgroup, their race. This comes from isolation and it'swell understood by educators. It results in these tokenstudents not feeling completely comfortable expressingtheir individuality.On the other hand, if there are meaningful numbers of African-American students, this sense ofisolation dissipates.QUESTION: Mr. Payton, what is a meaningfulnumber?MR. PAYTON: It's what we've been referring toas critical mass.QUESTION: Okay, what is critical mass?MR. PAYTON: Critical mass is when you haveenough of those students so they feel comfortable actingas individuals.QUESTION: How do you know that?MR. PAYTON: I think you know it, because aseducators, the educators see it in the students that comebefore them, they see it on the campus.QUESTION: Do they -- professors at the University of Michigan spend a lot of time with thestudents? MR. PAYTON: Yes, they do. This is a incrediblyvibrant and complex campus that has diversity in everyconceivable way. And I think --QUESTION: Do they spend a lot of time with themother than lecturing to them?MR. PAYTON: They do. In the record, weactually have an expert report that's not contradicted inany way by Professor Raudenbush and by Professor Gurin, just on the issue of how do you know when you have enoughstudents in different contexts and circumstances so thatthere will be these meaningful numbers.QUESTION: What do they say?MR. PAYTON: They said that given the numbersthat have been coming through in the last several years,we are just getting to that critical mass. And the waythey analyzed it was to look at the circumstances in whichstudents interact. A entering seminar, a dorm context, astudent activities context, student newspaper context, tosee what would happen if you distribute the studentsacross these small encounter opportunities.QUESTION: Does Michigan have, as some schools Iknow have, schools that have affirmative action program,does it have a minority dormitory? MR. PAYTON: No. The answer is no. We havedormitories like I said. Just about every single enteringstudent stays in a dormitory. We do not have anydormitories where your entrance into it is governed byyour race. But we have tremendous representation in ourdormitories because everybody has to stay there, okay?So the answer is --QUESTION: I mean, apart from being excluded, if-- it is in fact the residential pattern quite mixed andthere are no dormitories that are, you know, just as sometimes there is -- there is the jocks dormitory, thereis really no African American dormitory?MR. PAYTON: The answer is there is no AfricanAmerican dormitory, put it -- the full answer is morecomplex. After students are there for their first year,they can choose to move off campus. They can choose tostay on campus. Many stay on campus, many move offcampus. Ann Arbor is a college town and off campus isactually in the larger campus community and what they dooff campus is obviously up to the students themselves, butI think that's -- you know, that's the real world. If youhave the meaningful numbers of minority students, whatthen happens is that students will see a range of ideas, arange of viewpoints from and among those students and theywill then see things that they may not have expected, similarities and differences, and those in turn will havethe result of undermining stereotypes, you know, and thishappens for the minority students, and the white students.This happens for all the students. You know,the benefits from this affect every single student thatcomes through. And they're dependent on their beingmeaningful numbers, or critical mass, of minoritystudents, or the benefits don't come about.That's the interest that the University isasserting. That's why they think that this is so crucial. Education, understanding, produces citizens and leaders inour complex society.QUESTION: But where we are is, there's anassumption, you may not agree with it, but it's onebeginning assumption in this area, that there may not be aquota, every -- all of the eloquent things you said couldbe easily met by a quota. That -- let's just assume forargument, we cannot do.I have to say that in -- in looking at yourprogram, it looks to me like this is just a -- a disguisedquota. You have a -- a minority student who works very,very hard, very proud of his athletics, he gets the samenumber of points as a minority person who doesn't have anyathletics -- that to me looks like an overt quota.MR. PAYTON: Here's how our system works and I believe it's not a quota at all and I can believe -- I cansimply explain this. The way it works, an applicationcomes in, it is reviewed on the basis -- every singleapplication is read in its entirety by a counselor, everysingle application. It is in fact judged on the basis ofthe selection index, which has the points for race and points for athletics, but it also has all sorts ofother things that it values, in state, underrepresentedstate, underrepresented county within Michigan,socioeconomic status, what your school is like, what the curriculum that you took at your school is like.QUESTION: But none of that matters.MR. PAYTON: Your grades --QUESTION: None of that matters if you'reminimally qualified and you're one of the minority racesthat gets the points, you're in, correct? The rest isreally irrelevant?MR. PAYTON: The way it works is that everyapplication comes through and it's read in its entirety,it is evaluated taking all of these factors into account,and then based upon the number that comes off theselection index which can go up to , the students areall competing against each other. There is a score thatis evaluated throughout the year, because there's anoverenrollment problem that always has to be managed and if the score is higher, you are in, and that doesn'tmatter about anything other than what the score is. Inaddition, the counselor can on the basis of three factorssee that an application is reviewed by the admissionsreview committee.QUESTION: Mr. Payton, in your brief, you saythe volume of applications and the presentation ofapplicant information may get impractical for LSA to usethe same admissions system as the much smaller Universityof Michigan Law School. Now, you're saying that every single applicationfor admission to LSA is read individually?MR. PAYTON: Yes. Sometimes twice. Becauseevery application is read when it comes in, and those thata counselor flags that -- because they find that there'sthree factors you have to have flag an application --academically able to do the work, above a certainselection index score and also contributes at least one ofvarious factors that we want to see in our student body,including underrepresented minority status, but also veryhigh class rank and a whole range of other things.QUESTION: When you say underrepresentedminorities, what comparison are you making to say thatit's underrepresented?MR. PAYTON: I think we're taking that term as the Federal Government has used it, and the reason Asiansaren't included, just to pick up one of the --QUESTION: How does the Federal Government useit?MR. PAYTON: I think there are three minoritygroups, you know. Let me just go back and answer what wewant. QUESTION: Well, I think perhaps I could get amore direct answer. How do you decide whether, say,African Americans or Hispanics are quote underrepresented, close quote?MR. PAYTON: I think this is actually a veryimportant point. They are underrepresented in ourapplicant pool.QUESTION: Compared to what? MR. PAYTON: Compared to -- we have very smallpools of African Americans, for example, that arequalified to the extent that we require students to bequalified to do the work at the University of Michigan andwhat that means is that if we didn't take race intoaccount, we would not be able to get the numbers of thosestudents, the critical mass, necessary for the educationalbenefits that we want.QUESTION: But --MR. PAYTON: That's underrepresented. QUESTION: When you say underrepresented, itsounds like something almost mathematical, that you'resaying, we only have a certain percentage of -- and weshould have this percentage, well, what is thispercentage?MR. PAYTON: It's actually not a percentage atall and it really is driven by the educational benefitsthat we want from our diverse student body.If we had in our applicant pool sufficientnumbers of minority students, African Americans, for example --QUESTION: What is a sufficient number?MR. PAYTON: So that when we made our selection--number?QUESTION: I asked you, what is a sufficientMR. PAYTON: Yes.QUESTION: An answer -- would you answer it?MR. PAYTON: A sufficient number so that when wemade our selections, we were achieving the critical massof students that we need for the benefits I described. That is not a fixed precise number at all, as you'veheard. It is -- that's simply not the nature of thecritical mass. But when you're trying to figure outwhether or not in your applicant pool, you have sufficient numbers, so that the normal operation of our process wouldyield a critical mass, that's underrepresented. We areunderrepresented with respect to Hispanics, with respectto African Americans and with respect to Native Americans.QUESTION: Because your standards are so high,you say that there are very few of those who can meet yourstandards. So why don't you lower your standards,actually, I mean if this is indeed a significantcompelling State interest, why don't you lower yourstandards? MR. PAYTON: We do have sufficient numbers inour applicant pool to achieve the critical mass that we'reachieving. We're not taking -- you're right we're not --QUESTION: By taking race into account, you canyou can do it. But --MR. PAYTON: But we're not taking students thataren't qualified, you are correct about that, JusticeScalia.QUESTION: But just lower your qualificationstandards, if -- if this value of -- of having everybodyin a mix with people of other races is so significant toyou, just lower your qualifications.MR. PAYTON: It is that significant to us. ButI think that --QUESTION: You don't have to be the great college you are, you can be a lessor college if that valueis important enough to you.MR. PAYTON: I think that decision which wouldsay that we have to choose, would be a Hobbesian choicehere. Our premiere institutions of higher education, I'dsay, are part of our crown jewels. We have greateducational institutions in this country. The Universityof Michigan is one of them. I think we are the envy ofthe world. If we had to say, gee, our educators tell usthat it is crucial that for the full education they want for those students, all of those students we needed for astudent body, that the decision is, oh, gee, we want toyou decide to either have a poor education for theessentially white students and/or you can say, change whatyou are as an institution. I think we get to decide whatour mission is. I think the Constitution gives us someleeway in deciding what our mission is and how we defineourselves.QUESTION: And anything that contradicts thatmission is automatically a compelling State interest?MR. PAYTON: No. I think what we're saying iswe can achieve both of those things, because, in fact,achieving the educational benefits that come from adiverse student body can be achieved, given our mission,if we can go about selecting students in a way to achieve the critical mass of minority students that we need. Wewant both of those things. We think that --QUESTION: Go ahead. Are you finished?MR. PAYTON: Yes.QUESTION: I wanted to go back to JusticeKennedy's question. The point system here, does it meetthe opinion of Justice Powell in Bakke when that wascalled for individualized consideration? Now, the concern that it does not, is that youunder this system would seem to have the possibility that two students -- one is a minority, African American, oneis not, majority, and they seem academically approximatelythe same and now we give the black student points andthe white student, let's say, is from the poorest familyaround and is also a great athlete, and he just can'tovercome that points -- the best he can do is tie.And so that's the argument that this is notindividualized consideration. And I want to be sure Iknow what your response is to that argument.MR. PAYTON: I have two responses. The first isto say that it is individualized if that white studentactually was socioeconomically disadvantaged, that couldbe taken into account.QUESTION: But remember he has that and gets points for it?MR. PAYTON: Yes.QUESTION: And he also is a great athlete andI've constructed this example to make it difficult foryou, and -- but I mean you see he can only get points,no matter how poor he is. And no matter how great anathlete he is as well, and the -- let's say the blackstudent who has neither ties him? MR. PAYTON: Yes.QUESTION: But on individualized consideration,the black student might lose, if there were the individualized consideration.MR. PAYTON: Well, he might --QUESTION: And that's -- and that's what you'regiving him. Now what is the answer I'm -- I'm trying tofind your answer?MR. PAYTON: The answer is we value both ofthose aspects of diversity. We want both of thoserepresented in our student body, all right, if they tie,they will being judged exactly the same as far as how theselection index works.QUESTION: What you're saying is that race isindividualized consideration?MR. PAYTON: I'm saying that each student --QUESTION: Otherwise you're saying that only inthe hypothetical given that only the white student receives individualized consideration?MR. PAYTON: No, no. They both --QUESTION: Some are more equal than others?MR. PAYTON: They both receive individualizedconsideration. They're both reviewed in their totality. They both may be sent to the admissions review committeewhere they get a second reading. In Bakke --QUESTION: If in those circumstances, because wehave the white student who is both a good athlete and alsovery poor, and the other student, the minority is not, could that be sent to the -- the individual -- could thatbe sent to the review committee and the review committeewould say, well, we have a special circumstance here, andeven though the points tie, nonetheless when we look at itcarefully, we see that the white student has these extrapluses, despite the points, we let in the white student?MR. PAYTON: The admissions review committee --about percent of the applications that it reviews inany given year are white student applications that aresent to it. Okay. It can reach its judgment irrespectiveof whatever happened in the selection index score.QUESTION: So they can ignore the points?MR. PAYTON: They can -- actually once it goesto them they simply look at the application and make ajudgment.QUESTION: So I want a clear answer to this. That review committee can look at the applicationsindividually and ignore the points? MR. PAYTON: It does.QUESTION: Yes. The answer is yes?MR. PAYTON: The answer is yes.QUESTION: Okay.MR. PAYTON: And it does. In Bakke, whereJustice Powell says that he could look at one example ofan admissions policy and he discusses briefly the Harvard plan and then he has a long quote from it, there is thefootnote that Ms. Mahoney mentioned. In both footnote and footnote there is a citation to this study byCarnegie and he introduces that by saying in the footnotethere are in this study examples of the actions by otherleading institutions, trying to get diverse studentbodies. That study indicates that there are plenty ofother models where in fact some effort to come up with asystem to handle these different factors was successful.QUESTION: Mr. Payton, it's easy to say they canignore the points. Easy to say. Do you know of any casewhere a minority applicant, one of the minorities favoredin your program, who was minimally qualified, got the-point favor and was rejected?MR. PAYTON: I don't know, Justice Scalia. QUESTION: Well, it's important, I mean, to saytheoretically, it's fine, yes, theoretically, you canreject it. But as I understand what -- what the otherside is saying, it is automatic, if you are minimallyqualified, and you get those points, you are in, that'swhat they claim?MR. PAYTON: Actually --QUESTION: Now, do you assert that that isfalse?MR. PAYTON: That is not correctly describing what happens. The way the policy works and the way it isimplemented is how I described the policy. In fact, theresults of the policy are that most of the qualifiedminority applications do end up getting admitted. That'snot the design. The design is here's how you do it,here's how the decisions are made, either on the selectionindex score, some are sent to the admissions reviewcommittee. Most of those that are sent to the admissionsreview committee are in fact not minority applications,but the design is not gee, admit all qualified minorities,the design is to take these different factors into accountin order to achieve the student body that we think iscrucial here.QUESTION: So there are some qualified minorities who get the points and who are rejected? MR. PAYTON: I believe that is the case, all therecord says in this is that virtually all of the minoritystudents, as a result of the policy ended up beingadmitted. I think there are certainly some, I can't giveyou one, I can't give you one, but there are certainlysome where if you work it out, you can see that won'thappen.QUESTION: But the design is to admit a higherpercentage of the qualified minority applicants that youget, given the numbers that there are today, because if you don't do that you won't get your mix?MR. PAYTON: The design is to make sure we getto the critical mass of the meaningful numbers and giventhe small pool size we have, the way it operates is as youjust described, but that's the way it operates, the designis to make sure we get the critical mass of students thatare, in fact, necessary for the educational benefits thatwe are asserting here.QUESTION: Has anyone at Michigan ever definedcritical mass as being anything more specific thansomething beyond token numbers? MR. PAYTON: I think that the reason Ireferenced the two expert reports by Professor Raudenbushand Professor Gurin is to try to see this -- those tworeports try to put this in sort of an everyday example, you know, students don't interact with the student body asa whole, they interact in small settings and it's to seeif you see what our minority student population is howthat would distribute into these small settings. And onthe basis of how that distribution works, Professor Gurinlooked at it to see whether or not that looked like thatwould be generating the interactions that she would expectfor these educational benefits.QUESTION: But in the criteria used by theadmissions committee, did anyone put a percentage figure or a specific number --MR. PAYTON: No.QUESTION: -- beyond the concept you've got toget more than just token representation?MR. PAYTON: No. The answer is no. And --QUESTION: Mr. Payton, do you know the origin ofcritical mass that is being spoken of here as though itwere something that were invented? I know it goes back atleast with respect to the enrollment of women in lawschool, the schools talked about we want to get a criticalmass, so women will feel welcome because when they wereone at a time curiosities they did have to do as you saiddefend -- they were representatives of their sex and ifthey failed, all women failed. Once they had a criticalmass, it was no longer necessary, the woman was free to be who she was.But that term I certainly was familiar with thatterm used in that setting. It's -- it comes fromsociology, doesn't it?MR. PAYTON: It does, and I think you'vedescribed it exactly as it has come about with respect todiversity and critical mass. In the Harvard plan, inJustice Powell's discussion of the Harvard plan, heclearly acknowledges and -- because the plan acknowledgesthat you must have meaningful numbers and it means more than token numbers and there's clearly an acknowledgementthat if you have too few numbers you get the dynamics ofisolation that you just discussed.QUESTION: In the law school context, there wastestimony, I think from one of the admissions officersthat said percent is too few, percent might suffice.And he's talking in respect to what is a critical mass. Now, do people coalesce around numberslike that or is that just out of -- what do I do with thatpiece of testimony?MR. PAYTON: I think that in all of this, youknow, there's a false precision here that everybody wants,which is tell me exactly what this is, and I don't thinkit exactly works like that. You know, we have a lot ofexperience as, you know, an educational institution about what has happened on our campus and what has worked. Theclass that we've had, the entering classes that we've hadover the last years or so, have ranged from percentto percent, okay? Twelve percent to percent. I'mnot saying it's a percent and I'm not saying it's thatfixed range, but percent to percent is sort of howit is ranged and that has generated the representation inthe small groups that is what is working to achieve someof these educational benefits that we're talking about.But it's not quite that precise as far as how all of this works.QUESTION: Mr. Payton, let me ask JusticeO'Connor's question, when does all of this come to an end?MR. PAYTON: I think that we all certainly expect it to come to an end. I think we're all quitesurprised if we looked back at Bakke, in , I think allof us would be quite surprised from that vantage point torealize that today in Michigan students live in suchsegregated circumstances growing up, it's really quiteunbelievable. We could not have foreseen that. I thinkpeople thought that we were coming together in a way andthat hasn't occurred. That's created some educationalchallenges and opportunities.The test score gap, I think is narrowing -- weput that in our brief. I think we're all quite optimistic about how this is going to progress. There is progress. I think the pool is increasing. But I can't give you howlong is it going to last. I think we're all quiteconfident that it's only going to last for X number offinite years, I just can't answer with any precision thatquestion either.QUESTION: Suppose the Court were to say thatthe -point system and the law school system looked justtoo much like a quota and that quotas are impermissible? As of that point, is it our burden to tell you what other systems to use or is it your burden to come up with someother system, say, more individualized assessment in orderto attain some of the goals you wish to attain?MR. PAYTON: I guess I'm not sure what the moreindividualized assessment would be here. I'm not sayingthat obviously there are things that could be donedifferently. We've done things differently. The twoschools do things quite differently. But I think we'reboth trying to achieve the critical mass, that I thinkthere's no dispute at all from anyone that the criticalmass is essential to get the educational benefits thatwe're talking about. If this goal is a compelling interest, thencritical mass is essential to its attainment, given thesmall pool size that we're talking about. Can it be crafted in another way? Obviously, from the amicusbriefs, there are a lot of schools that do it in differentways. We're doing it in a very individualized way that infact does allow students to compete. Every student isevaluated on the same criteria. You know, head to head. We do take race into account in the way that you've hearddescribed. But I'm not sure that lacks the individualitythat you would be striving for.This is, you know, an enormously important case. When Justice Powell said in Bakke that it's not too much to say that the Nation's future depends upon leaderstrained through wide exposure to the ideas and mores ofstudents as diverse as this nation of many peoples, Ithink that statement was absolutely correct then. I thinkit is, you know, it has never been truer than it is today. This is of enormous importance and correct, not just tothe University of Michigan, but I'd say to all of highereducation and I think to our country as a whole to be ableto do things that bring us together, that bring usunderstanding, that result in tolerance and, I'd say, makeus the -- more -- closer to the day that we all lookforward to when, in fact, we are beyond some of theseproblems that we've been discussing rather intensely heretoday.QUESTION: Mr. Payton, do you think that your admissions standards overall at least provide someheadwind to the efforts that you're taking about?MR. PAYTON: Yes, I do. I think they do in allsorts of ways. They are certainly producing blackstudents, white students, Hispanic students, NativeAmerican students who go out into our communities andchange their communities.QUESTION: You may have misunderstood me. Imean the -- Ms. Mahoney said earlier that the problem oflaw school admissions, in response to Justice O'Connor, that it was for the elite schools, it was more a problemat the elite schools, when she was talking about BoaltHall, for example, you meant -- you suggested or alludedto in your argument today that, you know, you don't wantto choose between being an elite school and the wholediversity issue.It -- would it be easier to accomplish thelatter if the former were adjusted, that is the overalladmissions standard? MR. PAYTON: I think that --QUESTION: Now, I know you don't want to makethe choice, but will you at least acknowledge that thereis a tension?MR. PAYTON: I think that, you know, some of ourother schools, the non-selective schools, actually some can end up with completely undiverse populations as well;that the fact that a school does not have selectivitydoesn't mean that the community college, in fact, isdiverse.So I don't think it necessarily follows at allthat if you lower your standards and distribute this allacross the country, we will get these educationalbenefits, you know, throughout our educational system.QUESTION: Now -- about terms ago, we had theUniversity of Mississippi higher ed. case in here -- MR. PAYRON: Yes.QUESTION: -- and the argument was made that thehistorically -- the HBCs, the historically black collegesprovided a different benefit to minorities. Would thesame arguments with respect to diversity apply to thoseinstitutions?MR. PAYTON: Yes. You mean do they benefit ifthey had a racially and ethnically diverse student body? I believe most every single one of them do have diversestudent bodies.QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. Payton.Mr. Kolbo, you have two minutes remaining -- youhave three minutes remaining.REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF KIRK O. KOLBOON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERSMR. KOLBO: With respect to the point system,Counsel has made it sound as if it's sort of a fortuitythat the University of Michigan has an admissions systemthat ends up admitting -- admitting virtually all minoritystudents. In fact, I want to talk a little bit about therecord here. We put in the record the guidelines from theoriginal system that was in place in and . Atthe joint appendix, at page , it's made very clear thatthe guidelines were set in , when Jennifer Gratzapplied to admit all qualified minority students. It's also undisputed in this record that the way the Universitygot to the points was to statistically design it basedon the old model. So what they've done is they've takenthe old guidelines that were set to admit all qualifiedminority students, statistically figured out how manypoints they needed to give -- to give to students underthe new system to replicate the old system, and that's howwe ended up with points. So it -- it strikes me as disingenuous tosuggest that it's simply an accident.These policies have a purpose. They grant apreference for a purpose. And the new system does whatthe old system did -- did, which is to create a two-tracksystem. It's not enough if you're Jennifer Gratz orPatrick Hamacher to be merely qualified to get admitted to the University. To be admissible is not simply enoughbecause of their skin color. If however you're a memberof one of the minority students and you meet those minimumqualifications, that's sufficient. If that's not atwo-track system, I can't imagine what one -- what onewould actually look like.With respect to test scores, a question wasmade -- a question was asked about how long are thesesystems going to last. There's actually evidence, andthis was not put in the -- in the record by the University, with respect to test scores and disparities,but there's -- there's also opposing opinion which hasindicated that as long as we have these preferences, theycreate perverse incentives. We've cited the work of JohnMcWhorter, for example, in our reply brief indicating thattest scores to the extent that they're not narrowing, orto the extent that the gaps are increasing may, in fact,be to the fact -- due to the fact of these -- of thesepreferences. With respect to the Hobbesian choice thatMr. Payton has talked about, they have resolved adifferent Hobbesian choice. The University has decidedthat they are willing to lower their academic standards toget their critical mass.They've resolved that -- that Hobbesian choicethat way. But they've resolved the other Hobbesian choice, how to get those objectives and stay selective,they've resolved that Hobbesian choice on the backs of theconstitutional rights of individuals like Jennifer Gratzand Patrick Hamacher. They are the ones that are payingfor the Hobbesian choice that the University has resolvedwith -- by the use of a two-track admission system.With respect to the concept of critical mass,all I have to say, if one can't ascertain from the wayit's defined, meaningful means sufficient, sufficientmeans critical, critical means sufficient, that meets the definition, it seems to me, of an interest that's tooamorphous, too ill-defined, too indefinite, just like therole model theory, just like a remedy for societaldiscrimination, too indefinite to support the use of acompelling -- to suit -- to use -- to be a basis forracial preferences. CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: Thank you Mr. Kolbo. The case is submitted. (Whereupon, at : p.m., the case in theabove-entitled matter was submitted.) 